---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-04-07'
modified_time: 2022-01-25 15:19:31-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/04/07/remarks-by-first-lady-jill-biden-for-the-next-phase-of-joining-forces-in-virtual-white-house-event/
published_time: 2021-04-07 11:30:00-04:00
title: "Remarks by First Lady Jill\_Biden for the Next Phase of Joining Forces in\
  \ Virtual White\_House\_Event"
---
 
11:38 A.M. EDT

THE FIRST LADY:  Thank you, Ryzun. You know, when you joined us back in
February, I felt like I knew you from the first words you spoke. You’re
open and funny and sincere. In fact, it doesn’t surprise me at all that
you managed to make friends when your family moved to Germany, despite
not speaking any German. And then you became a mentor so that you could
help others feel less alone. It’s that resilience and heart that makes
military kids like you so special. So thank you, Ryzun, for joining us
today.

You know, I’ll never forget the emotions that ran through me as I stood
in front of the bow of the 2,000-ton USS Gabrielle Giffords to christen
her, just praying the bottle I held in my hands would break when it was
time. I was nervous and excited, and most of all, deeply proud to become
an honorary member of the crew’s family—or as they say, “a shipmate for
life.”

Surrounded by the sounds and shouts and cheers, I thought of the brave
soldiers who would make up her crew and the families who stood by them.
I felt a touch of longing in that celebration knowing that when the time
came to bring this ship to life, spouses and children, parents and
siblings would stay behind, but a piece of their hearts would sail away.

There’s no ribbon cuttings or showers of champagne to christen their
journey, but it is that: a journey through the months apart, happy
homecomings and more deployments that transition to life after the
military.

In that moment, the Giffords seemed to represent our entire armed
forces. Anyone could look at its bridge, its bow, its towering mast and
know this ship will be steady in the harshest winds, strong enough to
cut through the most violent seas, able to withstand any storm. Any yet,
so much of its power is unseen beneath the waves: the engines, the
anchors, the rudder that gives it direction and purpose. 

The families of our service members and veterans; the caregivers who
lift up our wounded, ill, and injured; the survivors who grieve those
we’ve lost: You may not wear a uniform, but you serve and you sacrifice
for us all.

Military families are as critical to our national defense as a rudder is
to a ship, and we must always act upon that truth. 

Today, we write the next chapter of a White House initiative that First
Lady Michelle Obama and I started 10 years ago: Joining Forces.

This work is personal to me. Is it because of my dad? He was a Navy
signalman in World War II and went to college on the G.I. Bill. His love
for this country was a part of everything he did. And he inspired us—his
five daughters—to see America through his eyes.

Or because of my son, Beau? When he joined the Delaware Army National
Guard, you know, I felt the unique pull of both incredible pride and
concern that every military mom knows so well. 

Or perhaps it’s because of my grandkids. When Beau served for a year in
Iraq, I saw how his children navigated his deployment. And I often
wondered how people so small could be so strong.

Without a doubt, being part of this military community has shaped who I
am. But that’s not why we’re here today. We’re here because of you, the
people behind me on these screens; because of the stories that you have
shared with me—your joys and your challenges. 

From difficult PCSes, to the lack of childcare on and off bases; from
fighting to keep your own careers and your identities, and to saying
goodbye to beloved schools and friends; from caring for your loved ones
to mourning those who have been lost—you are the rudder that steers our
military. And supporting your physical, social, and emotional health is
a national security imperative.

Every parent knows that when your child is hurting, nothing in your
world is right. When your spouse is at home trying to make ends meet, or
torn between taking care of your children and keeping a job, your heart
breaks with them no matter how far away you are. 

Our troops love their families with all that they are. Service members
cannot be focused on their mission if their families don’t have what
they need to thrive at home. And we can’t expect to keep the best and
brightest if our service members are forced to choose between their love
of country and the hopes and dreams they have for their families. 

We have an all-volunteer force, and it continues only because of
generations of Americans who see the honor, dignity, and patriotism of
this calling. How can we hope to keep our military strong if we don’t
give our family survivors and caregivers what they need to survive; if
we don’t act on our sacred obligation? And that is why we’re here today
and what Joining Forces is all about. 

During the Obama-Biden administration, we made a lot of progress. And
most of all, I’m proud that we helped lift up the stories like the ones
I heard from those on the screens behind me. And now we’re ready to do
more. 

So here’s what you’re going to see us do over these next few years:
We’re going to focus on military family employment and
entrepreneurship. Before the pandemic, the Department of Defense
estimated that the military spouse unemployment rate was about 22
percent. 

Spouses: All of you deserve opportunities to do the work you love,
whether that means keeping your job when you move from base to base or
owning your own businesses. 

And we need to make sure that you can get quality childcare when you
need it so that you don’t have to feel like you’re choosing between your
job and taking care of your kids.

We’re going to work on education for military children. There are more
than 2 million kids whose parents are service members, National Guard
reservists, or veterans. Our schools want to support all students, but
they don’t always know how to do so. We’re going to work with educators
and our government partners to make sure that you—our military-connected
kids—have what you need to succeed.

And finally, we’re going to work on military family health and
well-being. Just 1 percent of our country has shouldered the burden of
20 years of war. No one has more strength and grit and resilience than
our military families, but you can’t do this alone. We have to help you
carry this weight by improving access to mental health resources,
ensuring everyone can put food on the table, and supporting caregiving
families and survivors. So far, we already have commitments from the
Departments of Defense, Labor, and Education.  And this is just the
beginning. 

Our effort will take all of our government working together, and we
expect every agency to step up and be part of it. This is a community
bound together by love—love for our country, love for your service
members, and love for the communities you build together. And it’s time
that we match that devotion.

Your Commander-in-Chief understands that there is no greater honor than
serving those who serve our country—everyone who serves. He’s going to
make sure that you and your community are seen. And our goal is that
this work will live on long after we leave as a permanent priority for
every White House, because you deserve nothing less.

So thank you for all that you do. May God bless our troops and their
families. Thank you.

                          END                11:49 A.M. EDT
