---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-04-14'
modified_time: 2021-04-14 17:29:52-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/04/14/remarks-by-president-biden-on-the-way-forward-in-afghanistan/
published_time: 2021-04-14 17:45:00-04:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on the Way Forward in\_Afghanistan"
---
 
Treaty Room

2:29 P.M. EDT  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon.  I’m speaking to you today from the
Roosevelt — the Treaty Room in the White House.  The same spot where, on
October of 2001, President George W. Bush informed our nation that the
United States military had begun strikes on terrorist training camps in
Afghanistan.  It was just weeks — just weeks after the terrorist attack
on our nation that killed 2,977 innocent souls; that turned Lower
Manhattan into a disaster area, destroyed parts of the Pentagon, and
made hallowed ground of a field in Shanksville, Pennsylvania, and
sparked an American promise that we would “never forget.”  
  
We went to Afghanistan in 2001 to root out al Qaeda, to prevent future
terrorist attacks against the United States planned from Afghanistan. 
Our objective was clear.  The cause was just.  Our NATO Allies and
partners rallied beside us.  And I supported that military action, along
with overwhelming majority of the members of Congress.  
  
More than seven years later, in 2008, weeks before we swore the oath of
office — President Obama and I were about to swear — President Obama
asked me to travel to Afghanistan and report back on the state of the
war in Afghanistan.  I flew to Afghanistan, to the Kunar Valley — a
rugged, mountainous region on the border with Pakistan.  What I saw on
that trip reinforced my conviction that only the Afghans have the right
and responsibility to lead their country, and that more and endless
American military force could not create or sustain a durable Afghan
government.   
  
I believed that our presence in Afghanistan should be focused on the
reason we went in the first place: to ensure Afghanistan would not be
used as a base from which to attack our homeland again.  We did that. 
We accomplished that objective.   
  
I said, among — with others, we’d follow Osama bin Laden to the gates of
hell if need be.  That’s exactly what we did, and we got him.  It took
us close to 10 years to put President Obama’s commitment to — into
form.  And that’s exactly what happened; Osama bin Laden was gone.   
  
That was 10 years ago.  Think about that.  We delivered justice to bin
Laden a decade ago, and we’ve stayed in Afghanistan for a decade since. 
Since then, our reasons for remaining in Afghanistan are becoming
increasingly unclear, even as the terrorist threat that we went to fight
evolved.  
  
Over the past 20 years, the threat has become more dispersed,
metastasizing around the globe: al-Shabaab in Somalia; al Qaeda in the
Arabian Peninsula; al-Nusra in Syria; ISIS attempting to create a
<s>califit</s> \[caliphate\] in Syria and Iraq, and establishing
affiliates in multiple countries in Africa and Asia.   
  
With the terror threat now in many places, keeping thousands of troops
grounded and concentrated in just one country at a cost of billions each
year makes little sense to me and to our leaders.  We cannot continue
the cycle of extending or expanding our military presence in
Afghanistan, hoping to create ideal conditions for the withdrawal, and
expecting a different result.   
  
I’m now the fourth United States President to preside over American
troop presence in Afghanistan: two Republicans, two Democrats.  I will
not pass this responsibility on to a fifth.  
  
After consulting closely with our allies and partners, with our military
leaders and intelligence personnel, with our diplomats and our
development experts, with the Congress and the Vice President, as well
as with Mr. Ghani and many others around the world, I have concluded
that it’s time to end America’s longest war.  It’s time for American
troops to come home.   
  
When I came to office, I inherited a diplomatic agreement, duly
negotiated between the government of the United States and the Taliban,
that all U.S. forces would be out of Afghanistan by May 1, 2021, just
three months after my inauguration.  That’s what we inherited — that
commitment.   
  
It is perhaps not what I would have negotiated myself, but it was an
agreement made by the United States government, and that means
something.  So, in keeping with that agreement and with our national
interests, the United States will begin our final withdrawal — begin it
on May 1 of this year.   
  
We will not conduct a hasty rush to the exit.  We’ll do it — we’ll do it
responsibly, deliberately, and safely.  And we will do it in full
coordination with our allies and partners, who now have more forces in
Afghanistan than we do.   
  
And the Taliban should know that if they attack us as we draw down, we
will defend ourselves and our partners with all the tools at our
disposal.   
  
Our allies and partners have stood beside us shoulder-to-shoulder in
Afghanistan for almost 20 years, and we’re deeply grateful for the
contributions they have made to our shared mission and for the
sacrifices they have borne.  
  
The plan has long been “in together, out together.”  U.S. troops, as
well as forces deployed by our NATO Allies and operational partners,
will be out of Afghanistan before we mark the 20th anniversary of that
heinous attack on September 11th.   
  
But — but we’ll not take our eye off the terrorist threat.  We’ll
reorganize our counterterrorism capabilities and the substantial assets
in the region to prevent reemergence of terrorists — of the threat to
our homeland from over the horizon.  We’ll hold the Taliban accountable
for its commitment not to allow any terrorists to threaten the United
States or its allies from Afghan soil.  The Afghan government has made
that commitment to us as well.  And we’ll focus our full attention on
the threat we face today.   
  
At my direction, my team is refining our national strategy to monitor
and disrupt significant terrorist threats not only in Afghanistan, but
anywhere they may arise — and they’re in Africa, Europe, the Middle
East, and elsewhere.   
  
I spoke yesterday with President Bush to inform him of my
decision. While he and I have had many disagreements over policies
throughout the years, we’re absolutely united in our respect and support
for the valor, courage, and integrity of the women and men of the United
States Armed Forces who served.  I’m immensely grateful for the bravery
and backbone that they have shown through nearly two decades of combat
deployments.  We as a nation are forever indebted to them and to their
families.   
  
You all know that less than 1 percent of Americans serve in our armed
forces.  The remaining 99 percent of them — we owe them.  We owe them. 
They have never backed down from a single mission that we’ve asked of
them.  
  
I’ve witnessed their bravery firsthand during my visits to Afghanistan. 
They’ve never wavered in their resolve.  They’ve paid a tremendous price
on our behalf.  And they have the thanks of a grateful nation.  
  
While we will not stay involved in Afghanistan militarily, our
diplomatic and humanitarian work will continue.  We’ll continue to
support the government of Afghanistan.  We will keep providing
assistance to the Afghan National Defenses and Security Forces.   
  
And along with our partners, we have trained and equipped a standing
force of over 300,000 Afghan personnel today and hundreds of thousands
over the past two decades.  And they’ll continue to fight valiantly, on
behalf of the Afghans, at great cost.  They’ll support peace talks, as
we will support peace talks between the government of Afghanistan and
the Taliban, facilitated by the United Nations.  And we’ll continue to
support the rights of Afghan women and girls by maintaining significant
humanitarian and development assistance.  
  
And we’ll ask other countries — other countries in the region — to do
more to support Afghanistan, especially Pakistan, as well as Russia,
China, India, and Turkey.  They all have a significant stake in the
stable future for Afghanistan.   
  
And over the next few months, we will also determine what a continued
U.S. diplomatic presence in Afghanistan will look like, including how
we’ll ensure the security of our diplomats.  
  
Look, I know there are many who will loudly insist that diplomacy cannot
succeed without a robust U.S. military presence to stand as leverage. 
We gave that argument a decade.  It’s never proved effective — not when
we had 98,000 troops in Afghanistan, and not when we were down to a few
thousand.  
  
Our diplomacy does not hinge on having boots in harm’s way — U.S. boots
on the ground.  We have to change that thinking.  American troops
shouldn’t be used as a bargaining chip between warring parties in other
countries.  You know, that’s nothing more than a recipe for keeping
American troops in Afghanistan indefinitely.   
  
I also know there are many who will argue that we should stay — stay
fighting in Afghanistan because withdrawal would damage America’s
credibility and weaken America’s influence in the world.  I believe the
exact opposite is true.   
  
We went to Afghanistan because of a horrific attack that happened 20
years ago.  That cannot explain why we should remain there in 2021.   
  
Rather than return to war with the Taliban, we have to focus on the
challenges that are in front of us.  We have to track and disrupt
terrorist networks and operations that spread far beyond Afghanistan
since 9/11.  
  
We have to shore up American competitiveness to meet the stiff
competition we’re facing from an increasingly assertive China.  We have
to strengthen our alliances and work with like-minded partners to ensure
that the rules of international norms that govern cyber threats and
emerging technologies that will shape our future are grounded in our
democratic values — values — not those of the autocrats.   
  
We have to defeat this pandemic and strengthen the global health system
to prepare for the next one, because there will be another pandemic.   
  
You know, we’ll be much more formidable to our adversaries and
competitors over the long term if we fight the battles for the next 20
years, not the last 20.   
  
And finally, the main argument for staying longer is what each of my
three predecessors have grappled with: No one wants to say that we
should be in Afghanistan forever, but they insist now is not the right
moment to leave.   
  
In 2014, NATO issued a declaration affirming that Afghan Security Forces
would, from that point on, have full responsibility for their country’s
security by the end of that year.  That was seven years ago.   
  
So when will it be the right moment to leave?  One more year, two more
years, ten more years?  Ten, twenty, thirty billion dollars more above
the trillion we’ve already spent?   
  
“Not now” — that’s how we got here.  And in this moment, there’s a
significant downside risk to staying beyond May 1st without a clear
timetable for departure.   
  
If we instead pursue the approach where America — U.S. exit is tied to
conditions on the ground, we have to have clear answers to the following
questions: Just what conditions require to — be required to allow us to
depart?  By what means and how long would it take to achieve them, if
they could be achieved at all?  And at what additional cost in lives and
treasure?  
  
I’m not hearing any good answers to these questions.  And if you can’t
answer them, in my view, we should not stay.  The fact is that, later
today, I’m going to visit Arlington National Cemetery, Section 60, and
that sacred memorial to American sacrifice.   
  
Section sisty \[sic\] — Section 60 is where our recent war dead are
buried, including many of the women and men who died fighting in
Afghanistan and Iraq.  There’s no — there’s no comforting distance in
history in Section 60.  The grief is raw.  It’s a visceral reminder of
the living cost of war.   
  
For the past 12 years, ever since I became Vice President, I’ve carried
with me a card that reminds me of the exact number of American troops
killed in Iraq and Afghanistan.  That exact number, not an approximation
or rounded-off number — because every one of those dead are sacred human
beings who left behind entire families.  An exact accounting of every
single solitary one needs to be had.   
  
As of the day — today, there are two hundred and forty- — <s>2,488</s>
\[2,448\] U.S. troops and personnel who have died in Operation Enduring
Freedom and Operation Freedom’s Sentinel — our Afghanistan conflicts. 
20,722 have been wounded.   
  
I’m the first President in 40 years who knows what it means to have a
child serving in a warzone.  And throughout this process, my North Star
has been remembering what it was like when my late son, Beau, was
deployed to Iraq — how proud he was to serve his country; how insistent
he was to deploy with his unit; and the impact it had on him and all of
us at home.   
  
We already have service members doing their duty in Afghanistan today
whose parents served in the same war.  We have service members who were
not yet born when our nation was attacked on 9/11.   
  
War in Afghanistan was never meant to be a multi-generational
undertaking.  We were attacked.  We went to war with clear goals.  We
achieved those objectives.  Bin Laden is dead, and al Qaeda is degraded
in Iraq — in Afghanistan.  And it’s time to end the forever war.   
  
Thank you all for listening.  May God protect our troops.  May God bless
all those families who lost someone in this endeavor.  
  
2:45 P.M. EDT
