---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-04-06'
modified_time: 2021-04-06 18:51:56-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/04/06/remarks-by-president-biden-marking-the-150-millionth-covid-19-vaccine-shot/
published_time: 2021-04-06 19:00:00-04:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden Marking the 150 Millionth COVID-\u206019 Vaccine\_\
  Shot"
---
 
State Dining Room

4:10 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon, everyone.  I just visited a vaccination
clinic in Virginia, at the Virginia Theological Seminary in Alexandria,
Virginia.

The seminary and other houses of worship in the area are partnering with
the community health centers to offer vaccination and vaccination
sites.  They’re seeing these kinds of partnerships where — and not just
there, but we’re seeing them all over the country. 

People are coming together across the different faiths to serve those
most in need, with a special focus on vaccinating seniors from all
races, backgrounds, and walks of life.  It’s an example of America at
its finest.

And they’re all meeting what Pope Francis calls the “moral obligation”:
Get vaccinated — something which can, he went on to say, can save your
life and the lives of others.

And I was at the seminary clinic to mark an important milestone as well.

Yesterday, we crossed 150 million shots in 75 days — the first 75 days
my administration, on our way to hitting our goal of 200 million shots
by the 100th day in office.  That, of course, is the new goal I set
after passing the original mark of 100 million shots in my first 100
days, doing it in just 58 days.

At the time, some said 100 million shots was “too ambitious,” and then
they said, “It wasn’t ambitious enough.”  Well, we got to keep moving. 
If we could raise it up higher, I’d do that as well.  But we know — we
know what we have to do: We have to ramp up a whole-of-government
approach that rallies the whole country and puts us on a war footing to
truly beat this virus.

And that’s what we’ve been doing: getting enough vaccine supply,
mobilizing more vaccinators, creating more places to get vaccinated. 
And we’re now administering an average of 3 million shots per day — over
20 million shots a week.

On Saturday alone, we reported more than 4 million shots were
administered.  We’re the first country to administer 150 million shots
and the first country to fully vaccinate over 62 million people. 

But here’s the deal: I promised an update to the American people every
50 millionth shot, and I’m already back to update you a little over two
weeks — two and a half weeks later.  I promised in the beginning that
I’d always give you the straight scoop, straight from the shoulder — the
good and the bad. 

Well, here’s the truth: The good news is we’re on track to beat our goal
of 200 million shots in the first 100 days.  More than 75 percent of the
people over the age of 65 have gotten shots, up from 8 percent when we
took office.  That’s a dramatic turnaround and critical because seniors
account for 80 percent of all COVID deaths.

To help support my goal of safely reopening a majority of K-through-8
schools by my 100th day in office, I directed states in early March to
make educators and children \[sic\] — childcare workers eligible for
vaccines, and to <s>get</s> \[set\] a goal of getting all who wanted the
vaccination to be able to have one and to do it in the month of March.

I’m pleased to report, according to CDC estimates, over 80 percent of
teachers, school chaffs \[sic\] — school staff and childcare workers
received at least one shot by the end of March.  And that’s great
progress protecting our educators, our essential workers. 

And because our vaccine program is in overdrive, we’re making it easier
to get a vaccination shot.  Last week, I announced that by April 19th of
this month, 90 percent of all Americans will be within five miles of a
vaccination site. 

And further good news is that we’re getting more and more data on just
how effective the vaccines are.  Dr. Fauci recently cited two studies
from the New England Journal of Medicine that found fully vaccinated
care workers — healthcare workers on the frontlines had an extremely low
infections rate, less than two-tenths of one percent, compared to
unvaccinated healthcare workers who had considerably higher infection
rates.

So, we’re making incredible progress.  There is a lot of good news, but
there is also some bad news.  New — new variants of the virus are
spreading and they’re moving quickly. Cases are going back up. 
Hospitalizations are no longer declining.  While deaths are still down —
way down from January — they’re going up in some places.  So you might
ask — everybody is asking: What does that mean?

I understand that people may find it confusing that the vaccination
program is saving tens of thousands of lives but the pandemic remains
dangerous.  Let me explain it in a single word: Time.  Time.  Even
moving at the record speed we’re moving at, we’re not even halfway
through vaccinating over 300 million Americans.  This is going to take
time.  Remember: For a two-dose vaccine, it takes weeks from the time
you get your first one until you are able to get your second shot, which
makes you fully protected. 

If you get your first shot next week, in mid-April, you won’t be fully
protected until — until May — late May.  If you get your first shot in
mid-May, you aren’t fully protected until late June.

So, look — now, on the one hand, June isn’t that far away given how long
this has been going on, but it isn’t here yet either.  So, the virus is
spreading because we have too many people who, seeing the end in sight,
think we’re at the finish line already. 

But let me be deadly earnest with you: We aren’t at the finish line.  We
still have a lot of work to do.  We’re still in a life-and-death race
against this virus.  Until we get more people vaccinated, we need
everyone to wash their hands, socially distance, and mask up in a
recommended mask from the CDC.

Think about it this way: Better times are ahead. And as I’ve said
before, we can have a safe, happy Fourth of July with your family and
friends, in small groups in your backyard.  The real question is: How
much death, disease, and misery are we going to see between now and
then?

In January — just the month of January — we lost 95,747 — excuse me,
95,774 Americans.  In March, that was 37,172 Americans.  All told — as
you’re all about to know — I keep doing this, I know, but I carry this
card, every day, with my schedule on it.  And on the back, I have a
COVID update.  The total number of deaths in the United States to date
is 554,064 dead.  That’s lives that have been lost.

What we do now is going to determine how many people we’ll — we’ll save
or lose in the month of April and May and June before we get to July
4th.

So, please, until we’re further along in this accelerating, successful,
but still growing vaccination effort, please wash your hands.  Practice
social distancing.  Wear a mask, as recommended by the CDC.  Get
vaccinated when it’s your turn. 

While I’m asking Americans — the American people to do their job, here’s
what I’m doing.  When we first started our vaccination program, the real
question is how quickly we could get shots in people’s arms.  Well, by
the end of May, the vast majority of adult Americans will have gotten at
least their first shot. 

That success — that success is going to save lives and get this country
back to normal sooner.  But it’s not enough. 

On March the 11th, I announced that I was opening up all vaccination
sites to all adults by May 1st.  Many governors — Democrats and
Republicans — responded and decided to beat that day, which was good. 

Thanks to their hard work and the hard work of the American people, and
the hard work of my team, I’m announcing today that we’re moving that
date up from May 1st to April 19th, nationwide.  That means, by no later
than April 19th, in every part of this country, every adult over the age
of 18 — 18 or older — will be eligible to be vaccinated.  No more
confusing rules.  No more confusing restrictions. 

My message today is a simple one.  Many states have already opened up to
all adults.  But beginning April 19th, every adult in every state, every
adult in this country is eligible to get in line to get a COVID
vaccination. 

And today, in advance of that new national full-eligibility date, I want
to make a direct appeal to our seniors and everyone who cares about
them.  While we have made incredible progress vaccinating three quarters
of our seniors and putting vaccination sites within five miles of 90
percent of the public, it still isn’t enough. 

It’s simple: Seniors, it’s time for you to get vaccinated now.  Get
vaccinated now. 

To make it easier, my administration is sending aid to community groups
to drive seniors to vaccination sites.  We’re incredibly grateful to all
the volunteers, houses of worship, and the civic groups that are helping
us in this effort. 

This is America.  We take care of one another.  We have to keep it up. 

As I ask seniors to sign up for their shots now, I also have a message
for people under 65.  If you know someone over 65 who has not gotten
this life-saving vaccine, call them now.  Work with them to get their
shots this week or next.  Pick them up, drive them.  It can be your
parents, your grandparents, your aunt, uncle, your neighbors.

And finally, even after we open up vaccinations to all adults and put a
site within five miles of 90 percent of the public, we know there are
many people who still struggle to get access to a shot.  We know that
there are a number of seniors and people with disabilities and people in
many communities of color who may be isolated and lack access to
transportation.

That’s why we’re ramping up transportation to vaccination centers and
deploying more mobile units and pop-up clinics in the places close to
where people live.  That’s why we’re working with faith-based
organizations and other community groups to host vaccination clinics,
sign people up for appointments, get help — help them get those
appointments.

That’s why we’re sending even more vaccines to community health centers,
like the one I was in today, that all together serve nearly 30 million
Americans, like the ones I visited today. 

Two thirds of the patients at community health centers live at or below
the poverty level.  Sixty percent are racial and ethnic minorities.  To
reach them, we’re investing nearly $10 billion to expand testing,
treatment, and vaccinations for the hardest-hit yet most underserved
communities.

Let me close with this: We’ve vaccinated more people than any other
nation on Earth.  The vaccines have proven to be safe and effective. 
That should give us real hope, but it can’t let it — we can’t let it
make us complacent.

Despite the progress we’re making as a nation, I want every American to
know in no uncertain terms that this fight isn’t over.  This progress
we’ve worked so hard to achieve can be reversed.  Now is not the time to
let down.  Now is not the time to celebrate.  It’s time to do what we do
best as a country: do our duty, our jobs, taking care of one another. 
And we can and will do this, but we can’t let up now. 

My hope is, before the summer is over, I’m talking to you all about how
we have even access to more vaccines than we need to take care of every
American, and we’re helping other poor countries — countries around the
world that don’t have the money, the time, the expertise.  Because until
this vaccine is available to the world and we’re beating back the
vaccine — the virus in other countries, we’re not really completely
safe. 

So we’ve made great progress.  I’m still looking forward to the prospect
if we keep the pace we’re on and we listen to one another and take the
precautions I talked about, that you’ll be able to have a Fourth of July
— an Independence Day on July the 4th, as I defined about three weeks
ago.  I want to have an Independence Day, an independence from the COVID
so you’re able to get in the backyard with a small group of people, of
friends and neighbors, and celebrate Independence Day because you’ve
been vaccinated, because you’re safe, because you’re in the clear.

May God bless you all, and may God protect our troops.  Thank you so
much for listening.  Thank you.

Q    Mr. President — how are the talks going, Mr. President?  In Vienna,
how are the Vienna talks going?

THE PRESIDENT:  I’ll report on that later.

Q    Mr. President, do you think the Masters golf tournament should be
moved out of Georgia?

THE PRESIDENT:  I think that’s up to the Masters.  Look, you know, it is
reassuring to see that for-profit operations and businesses are speaking
up about how these new Jim Crow laws are just antithetical to who we
are. 

There’s another side to it, too.  The other side to it too is: When
they, in fact, move out of Georgia, the people who need the help the
most — people who are making hourly wages — sometimes get hurt the most.

I think it’s a very tough decision for a corporation to make or a group
to make, but I respect it when they make that judgment, and I support
whatever judgment they make.  But it’s — the best way to deal with this
is for Georgia and other states to smarten up.  Stop it.  Stop it.  It’s
about getting people to vote.

Q    Thank you, Mr. President.  Despite your personal appeal now, there
are many Americans who are very reluctant to take the vaccine,
especially in red states.  Why the White House hasn’t used a more
forceful campaign, like advertisement on television, for example, to
convince Americans to take that vaccine so we can reach the herd
immunity?

THE PRESIDENT:  We are.  We are doing that.  And, by the way, the number
of people who are reluctant to take it continues to diminish.  It
continues to diminish across the country as they see their neighbors,
particularly in communities that have been very —

Now, there’s a different group of people.  There’s a group of people
who’ve been reluctant because of past — how can I say it? — past wrongs
that had been done to them, like experimentation, not sure that they’re
being told the truth, et cetera.

But then there’s another group that seems, to me, to be — I probably
shouldn’t characterize it, but Mitch McConnell keeps speaking to them,
which I give him credit for, saying, “The idea…” — he said the polling
data shows Republican men, particularly young men, don’t think they
should have to take the vaccine; it’s their patriotic right not to do
it, their freedom to choose.  And he’s saying, “No, no, take the
vaccine.  Take the vaccine.”  And I’ll add a phrase he didn’t but I
think he believes: It’s a patriotic responsibility you have.

Last question.

Q    Mr. President, have you spoken to the Federal Reserve Chairman, Jay
Powell, yet?

THE PRESIDENT:  I have not.

Q    Can you say why?  Do you plan to speak to him soon, sir?

THE PRESIDENT:  I — I am not — look, I think the Federal Reserve is an
independent operation.  And starting off my presidency, I want to be
real clear that I’m not going to do the kinds of things that had been
done in the last administration — either talking to the Attorney General
about who he’s going to prosecute or not prosecute and under what
circumstances, or the Fed telling them what they should and shouldn’t
do, even though that wouldn’t be the basis upon which I’d be talking to
him. 

So I’ve been very fastidious about not talking to them, but I do talk to
the Secretary of Treasury.

Thank you all very much.

Q    And one more on COVID, Mr. President.  You mentioned 554,064
American dead from COVID-19.  A lot of families want to know how this
happened, how it got here.  Have you had a chance to speak to any of
your international partners, any of — President Xi, who I know you go
way back with?  Have you had the chance to ask him if these reports are
true, that China may be misled the world at the beginning?

THE PRESIDENT:  No, I — I have not had that conversation with President
Xi.  Thank you.

4:29 P.M. EDT
