---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-04-30'
modified_time: 2021-04-30 19:47:26-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/04/30/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-on-the-progress-made-during-the-first-100-days-in-office/
published_time: 2021-04-30 19:47:25-04:00
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris on the Progress Made During the First 100\
  \ Days in\_Office"
---
 
M&T Bank Stadium  
Baltimore, Maryland

3:00 P.M. EDT  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you all.  Thank you all.  You know, I — as
Chris Van Hollen was saying, together with the Governor and Dr. Fauci,
we were walking around downstairs and meeting with all the folks, our
members of the National Guard, all the frontline workers.   
  
And I said, you know, I do believe, in moments of crisis, that they
reveal the heroes walking among us, the angels walking among us.  And I
would say Melissa Wesby is one of those individuals.  Thank you,
Melissa, for that incredible introduction.  (Inaudible.)  (Applause.) 
There you are.   
  
So, to the governor, Larry Hogan, thank you.  And Team Maryland — Mayor
Brandon Scott, to General Janeen Birckhead, thank you for the warm
welcome and for all the work you do.  
  
And it is certainly a point of personal privilege, for me, as the
President of the Senate, to acknowledge some folks that are my friends. 
And I worked with them both over the four years I was in the Senate. 
And that, of course, is Senator Ben Cardin and Senator Chris Van
Hollen.   
  
Senator Cardin — (applause) — I will tell you — I mean, I’ve seen them
both — I just have to tell you, Maryland, you got some real leaders on
your hand in the United States Senate.  They represent Maryland, but
they are also national leaders.  
  
Ben, I’ve watched him do exceptional work for Maryland’s businesses as
the Chair of the Senate Small Business Committee.  And, of course,
Chris, as a member of the Appropriations Committee, has brought critical
resources to Baltimore, in terms of housing infrastructure and water
infrastructure and so much more.  So, it is wonderful to be with you
both.   
  
I also want to thank Congressman John Sarbanes and Congressman Kweisi
Mfume, who I’ve known for years.  Thank you both for your leadership.   
  
And it is always a wonderful day to spend time with Dr. Anthony Fauci. 
And thank you always, Dr. Fauci.  (Applause.)  
  
So, it is wonderful to be back in Baltimore, and especially on this, our
100th day of our administration.  I would say, today is a good day,
Baltimore.  
  
You know, 100 days ago, just after President Joe Biden and I were sworn
in, I stood in front of the Lincoln Memorial.  And I talked about what I
call “American aspiration.”  American aspiration.  
  
I talked about how, in America, we not only dream; we do.  We not only
see what has been; we see what can be.  We shoot for the moon, and then
we plant our flag on it.  
  
So, for a minute, let’s go back to where our nation was 100 days ago. 
About 2 out of 330 million Americans, at that time, were fully
vaccinated.  More than 10 million Americans were out of work.  Schools
were closed.  Businesses were closed.  And beyond the pandemic, our
democracy was under assault.  And our Capitol had just been attacked by
insurgents.  
  
All of that was going on when the President and I took our oath of
office.  But as daunting as these challenges were, we were not
deterred.  And our nation was not deterred.  
  
We had a plan to get America back on track.  We had faith  
that the American people, when given the opportunity, would come
together and would rise to meet the moment.  And you have.  You have.  
  
And because you have, American aspiration has defined these first 100
days.  American aspiration is how we got to more than 200 million shots
in arms in less than 100 days.  
  
In fact, just this morning, we got new data on how the economy did in
the first quarter of this year.  And things are looking up.  America is
once again on the move.  And that’s, in big part, thanks to the exactly
what’s happening here in this stadium, which is this vaccination
effort.  And I thanked the National Guard earlier; I will thank you
again.  
  
And Baltimore — Mayor, look at what you are doing here.  People can walk
right into this stadium and get vaccinated.  And this is happening
around the country.  
  
I have visited a local pharmacy in Southeast D.C., and a Community
Health Center right outside of Denver, and a vaccine distribution site
at the university — a university in Las Vegas.  I’ve been to a site in
Chicago run by union members, and another site in Jacksonville run by
military members.  
  
And, America, you must know: The people working to administer vaccines
are heroes.  And so, too, are — just like those folks we visited with
downstairs — so too are the Americans who sign up for that appointment,
make the time, and step up and get the shot.  
  
And if you haven’t been vaccinated yet or if you know somebody who
hasn’t, please ask folks to just roll up their sleeves.  It’s time for
each one of us to do our part.  (Applause.)  Yes.  
  
And we have also seen American aspiration in our effort to deliver
relief directly to American families.  The pandemic has taken a toll on
families — on their physical health, their mental health, ability to pay
the bills.  And the President and I, we knew that before we took
office.  
  
So, we developed a plan called the American Rescue Plan.  And it was
designed and intended to help people out.  And it was a big plan to
tackle a big crisis.  And some said it was too big, but we went for it
anyway.  And the American people rallied around it.  Across our country,
Democrats and Republicans alike voiced their support.   
  
And on day 50 of our administration, President Joe Biden signed the
American Rescue Plan into law.  (Applause.)  
And as I said then, President Joe Biden, well, he had a clear vision and
clear purpose.   
  
And let me tell you something: He never forgets who we are doing this
for.  It is for the American people.  It is for the American people that
we have delivered relief checks to 160 million folks.  It is for the
American people that we have lowered healthcare premiums.  It is for the
American people that we have cut taxes for families with children.  And
it is because of this law that we are lifting half of America’s children
who are living in poverty out of poverty.  (Applause.)   
  
Think about that.  Think about that: Half of America’s children that are
living in poverty will be lifted out of poverty.  So that, folks, is
what I call American aspiration.  
  
And we have also delivered support directly to small businesses because,
of course, small businesses are part of the fabric and the culture of a
community.  Baltimore knows that well.  Our small businesses employ
about half of America’s workers.  And making sure small businesses has —
and have access to capital is a big part of the work that I’ve been
doing.  I am proud to report that we have provided relief to 4 million
small businesses in our country, which brings me then to jobs.   
  
In 100 days, we have created more new jobs than any other administration
in history. (Applause.)  And, Baltimore, we are just getting started.   
  
Right now we have two more plans that we are working to get past.  The
first is the American Jobs Plan.  It will be the largest job investment
that our nation has made since World War Two.  Because the fact is, too
many people, including too many people right here in Maryland, are still
out of work.  So while we have made significant proce- — progress on the
jobs front, there’s so much more to be done.   
  
We are going to put Americans to work — fixing the roads you drive on
every day, getting rid of the lead pipes that poison our children, and
expanding broadband so that every American has access to high-speed and
affordable high-speed Internet.  
  
In the 21st century, broadband is critical infrastructure. You know,
last week, I was in New Hampshire.  I was visiting an — a site in the
New Hampshire Electric Co-Op.  And I was there because we were
remembering that in 1936 — Ben Cardin and Chris, you’ll probably
remember — Congress — and together with Congressman Sarbanes and Mfume —
in 1936, the United States Congress said, “You know what?  We got this
thing called electricity, but there are folks that are being left out. 
And that’s not going to be right because they will be left behind.”   
  
So, in 1936, there was the Rural Electrification Plan.  
And on that basis, our federal government invested to make sure all
Americans had access to electricity.  
  
Well, fast forward to the year of our Lord 2021; we got this thing
called “broadband.”  We have this thing called the “Internet.”   
  
And let’s think about it: Over the past year alone, which really
highlighted the importance of it, a lot of people — the only way they
could work, if they had the ability, was to work online.  Our children
had to go to school online.  Seniors and others — the way they could see
their doctor: telemedicine — online.  Small businesses — how are they
going to connect with their customers?  How are they going to move their
product?  Online.  How did so many of us connect with our families? 
Folks otherwise we might see at a family reunion or a holiday or a
birthday — online — if we had access and if it was affordable.   
  
So too many people either — in this period of time, it has been
highlighted — don’t have Internet access or cannot afford a broadband
bill.   
  
And let’s be clear: When we connect Americans to affordable and
accessible broadband, we are connecting our children to education.  We
are connecting our seniors to telemedicine.  We are connecting families
to each other.  And we connect Americans to economic opportunity.  And
at the same time, we build up our broadband infrastructure such that we
create good jobs — good union jobs.   
  
And as I have said it before — I will say it again — the best path to a
good job is through a strong union.  So the American Jobs Plan —
(applause) — so the American Jobs Plan will put America to work.  And
the second plan is the American Families Plan, which will make it
possible for people to work.  
  
So what am I talking about?  Well, the President — in his speech last
night, he talked about this — this plan that will establish universal
pre-K and lower the cost of childcare, making childcare affordable and
accessible, which has been a priority for so many of us.  
  
Just think: Nearly 2 million women have been forced out of the workforce
in just the last year, and the lack of childcare is often the reason
why.   
  
You know, I’ll tell you my personal story on this.  You know, when my
mother, who raised my sister and me — Dr. Fauci knows this.  I’m very
proud to say that my mother used to go to this place, Governor, when we
were young.  Mommy was going always to this place called Bethesda.  She
was going to the Bethesda, I learned later, because a place called NIH
is in Bethesda.  Because, you see, my mother was a breast cancer
researcher, and she had two goals in her life: to raise her two
daughters, and — and breast cancer.  And so she used to go out to NIH to
help do some of the work that happens there.   
  
And so when my mother, though, on a daily basis was at work every day —
long hours; she worked on weekends.  And when she was at work and it was
after school, often, my sister and I, we would walk two houses down to
the home of Mrs. Regina Shelton, who was a second mother to us, and she
was a lifeline for our mother.  And here’s the thing I know: She would
talk, on a daily basis, about how but for Ms. Shelton, she could not
have done the work that she did.   
  
Every working mother needs that support.  Every working parent needs
that support.  (Applause.)  And a competitive economy requires it.  A
competitive economy requires a skilled workforce too, which is why we
will also create more opportunities for education after high school.  
  
So let’s think about that.  Twelve years of education is the norm — has
been the norm, but in today’s world, 12 years of education is just not
enough.  So let’s invest in education after high school, understanding
that we also must invest in opportunities for folks about which path of
education after high school they want to take, that they choose to
take.  Let’s think about what we need to do — education after high
school — to invest in apprenticeships.  
  
We will give every American, with this plan, two years of free community
college, and we will make college more affordable for millions of
students.  Because there shouldn’t only be one educational path to
success.   
  
The American Jobs Plan, the American Families Plan — this is what
Americans deserve.  And this is what our future depends on.   
  
And we must also be clear-eyed: These last 100 days haven’t only been
defined by progress.  There have been too many days when we woke up to
news of another mass shooting; another Black or brown person shot by the
police; another act of hate against Asian Americans; another law
designed to make it harder for people to vote.  These are reminders that
we still have so much more work to do in the fight for reasonable gun
laws, in the fight for racial justice, the fight for voting rights.   
  
And some days I know it feels exhausting, but we cannot give up and we
will not give up.  Because here is the truth: American aspiration is
about the courage to see beyond crisis and to build beyond crisis.  It
is about our endurance.  It is about our perseverance.  It is about our
ability to keep pushing forward.   
  
American aspiration is what drove our nation to build the railroad from
coast to coast in the middle of the Civil War.  It is what drove our
nation to bring electricity to every household in the middle of the
Great Depression.  It is what drove our nation to race to the moon in
the middle of the arms race.  
  
American aspiration is what will continue to drive all of us to keep
reaching high even when we know it may be difficult,  
especially when it is difficult.   
  
So, I want to end with one more story.  So, about a month ago, I met
this little girl.  Her name is Galya and she’s five years old.  And so,
I walk into the classroom, and she’s there.  This — this little one — I
mean, she is really something.  Okay.  So, I walk into the room, and she
introduced me to everybody in the classroom.  Knew everyone.  Five years
old.  And immediately came glued to my side the whole time I was in the
classroom; introduced me to everyone in the classroom, by name,
including her teachers.  She just self-appointed to do this, by the
way.  It was not the plan.  
  
And at one moment, I went down to — I kneeled to speak to her, and I
said to her — I said, “Galya, you can be anything you want to be.”  And
this little one looked at me in my eyes, and do you know what she said? 
“I want to be everything.”  (Laughter.)  “I want to be everything.” 
(Applause.)  Right?   
  
So that is the spirit of American aspiration.  That is the spirit which,
at that moment, was wrapped up in the little body of a five-year-old. 
And moving forward, that is the spirit we must summon.  
  
So, thank you, Baltimore.  Thank you, Maryland, for making these 100
days what they have been — as so many of you have spoken and said,
“where we see light at the end of the tunnel.”  
  
Thank you for marking these 100 days with the President and with me. 
And please know that the President and I are grateful for your trust,
and we will never ever take it for granted.  
  
My God bless you, and may God bless America.  Thank you.  Thank you. 
Thank you all.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you very much. 
(Applause.)   
  
3:20 P.M. EDT
