---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-04-02'
modified_time: 2021-04-02 17:27:16-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/04/02/remarks-by-president-biden-on-the-march-jobs-numbers/
published_time: 2021-04-02 17:30:00-04:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on the March Jobs\_Numbers"
---
 
State Dining Room

11:25 A.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT:  Before I start, I hope you all have a good weekend.

Q    Thank you!

Q    You too.

THE PRESIDENT:  I’m looking forward to it.  (Laughs.)  I’m looking
forward to it.

Well, good morning.  This morning, we’ve learned that our economy
created 900,000 jobs in March.  It means the first two months of our
administration has seen more new jobs created than the first two months
in any administration in history.  But we still have a long way to go to
get our economy back on track after the worst economic and job crisis in
nearly a century. 

But my message to the American people is this: Help is here. 
Opportunity is coming.  And at long last, there’s hope for so many
families — so many families.  Credit for this progress belongs not to
me, but to the American people — hardworking women and men who have
struggled through this pandemic, never given up, and are determined to
get the country back on track, as well as their families.

But I think it’s also a reflection of two things we’re doing here. 
First, the new economic strategy we’ve launched: one focused on building
from the bottom up and the middle out, and one that puts government on
the side of working people — and that rewards work, not wealth. 

When we invest in the American people, it’s not just those at the top
that make our economy grow.  They’re the ones that make it grow:
ordinary Americans.  We saw the economy gain traction in March as the
American Rescue Plan moved and got passed, bringing new hope to our
country.  And we’re going to continue to implement that law in the weeks
ahead. 

By April 7th — next week — over 130 million households will have gotten
their $1,400 per-person rescue check.  Funds are on their way to local
communities to put educators, healthcare workers, home healthcare aides,
police, firefighters, sanitary workers back on the job.  They’re getting
more aid for small businesses, and we’re also going to hang an “open”
sign again on the door to rehire folks that had to be let go. 

And in the months ahead, a new Child <s>Care</s> Tax Credit will cut
taxes and provide help to millions of families with young children. 
There is nothing — nothing — I know you’re tired of hearing me say this,
but I mean it: There’s nothing the American people cannot do if we give
them a chance. 

And the American Rescue Plan does precisely that for hardworking
middle-class folks at long last.

Secondly, today’s report also reflects the progress we’ve made on my
other key priority: getting the American people vaccinated.  We’ve
turned around a slow-moving vaccination program into being the envy of
the world.  Yesterday, we set an all-time record for Thursday
vaccinations, ending a seven-day period — that was the first-ever —
where we administered 20 million shots in 70 \[sic\] days — in 7 days. 
That’s 20 million shots in a week.  No other country has come close to
doing that. 

So we’ve made significant progress on that front, but the fight is far
from over.  We know that vaccines are safe and effective.  We’re
vaccinating more people than any other country on Earth.  We also have
progress on jobs and progress on vaccinations.

But in the face of this great news, I need also to make this clear and
direct statement to the American people: The progress that we have
worked so hard to achieve can be reversed.

On the economic front, the benefits and the impacts of the American
Rescue Plan are temporary by design.  It was a — it is a rescue plan. 
But as we get the economy back on its feet, we need to do the hard work
of building back better for good, for — not just for a while, but for
good; not just the short term, but for good.

That’s why I proposed the American Jobs Plan on Wednesday in
Pittsburgh.  It’s an eight-year program that invites — and let me put it
another way.  I’ve heard from everybody all across the country about the
need for infrastructure.  How many times have we heard, “This is — this
is infrastructure week” over the last four years?  About every second
week was infrastructure week, but no infrastructure was built.

Well, this is an eight-year program that invests in our roads, our
bridges, broadband, airports, ports, and fixing our water systems.  It’s
going to repair our VA hospitals across the country.  Many of them are
more than 50 years old and are in real need of help.  It will invest in
research and development to outcompete China and the rest of the world.

Independent analysis shows that if we pass this plan, the economy will
create 19 million jobs — good jobs, blue-collar jobs, jobs that pay
well.  That’s long-term jobs for pipefitters, healthcare workers, those
who work in the steel factories and the cutting-edge labs as well.

The new report out this week shows that nearly 90 percent of the
infrastructure jobs created in the American Jobs Plan can be filled by
people who don’t have a college degree.  Seventy-five percent of those
good-paying jobs don’t need a associate’s degree.  It’s a blue-collar
blueprint for increasing the opportunity for people.

This an economic opportunity for those who’ve helped build the country
and have been ignored or neglected for much too long by our government. 
It’s a once-in-a-generation investment in our economic future — a chance
to win the future — paid for by asking big corporations, many of which
do not pay any taxes at all, just to begin to pay their fair share.  And
it won’t raise a penny tax on a family making less than $400,000 a year
— no federal tax, no addition.

When Congress comes back after this Easter break, I’m going to begin
meeting with Democrats, Republicans about this plan.  I’ve spoken to
Republicans on the phone.  I’m going to be looking forward to meeting
with them. 

They all have their ideas about what it will take, what they like, and
what they don’t like.  That’s a good thing.  That’s the American way. 
Debate is welcome.  Compromise is inevitable.  Changes in my plan are
certain.  But inaction is not an option. 

The American people have been promised action on infrastructure for
decades.  They’ve been promised that after our leaders would take our
country and make it more competitive for decades. 

I’ve made my plan to address this long-overdue need.  And it’s clear:
Polls already shows strong support for infrastructure investment for the
American people, whether they’re Democrats, Republicans, or
independents.

Congress should debate my plan, change it, and offer alternatives if
they think that’s what they have to do.  But Congress should act.

Likewise, on the virus, our program there, too, can be undone.  As fast
as we’re moving, more adults remain to be vaccinated in April, May, and
June than have already been vaccinated in February and March.  We are
not even halfway done yet. 

Too many Americans are acting as if this fight is over.  It is not. 
I’ve told people that if my administration did the hard work of getting
shots to all Americans in the next few months and if the American people
continued to do their part — mask up, practice social distancing — we
could have a more normal July 4th.

But this is still April, not July.  We aren’t there yet.  And so, cases
are going up again.  The virus is spreading more rapidly in many
places.  Deaths are going up in some states.  So I ask, I plead with
you: Don’t give back the progress we’ve all so — fought so hard to
achieve. 

We need to finish this job.  We need every American to buckle down and
keep their guard up in this homestretch.  Wear your mask.  Keep safe
distance from one another.  Wash your hands.  Get vaccinated when it’s
your turn.  That’s how we’re going to beat the virus, cast off the
weight of the pandemic that’s holding our economy back. 

While the earliest signs from this job report that’s announcing today
are promising and the American Rescue Plan is starting to make a real
difference, today’s report also reminds us how deep a hole we started
in.

After a year of devastation, there are still 8.4 million fewer jobs
today than there were last March.  8.4 million.  We created 900,000
again.  But 8.4 million jobs fewer today than last March.

So, too many Americans who have been unemployed for longer than six
months.  Too many women have been forced out of the workforce. 
Unemployment among people of color remains far too high.  Yes, we’ve
made progress by starting to build an economy from the bottom up and the
middle out.  And, yes, the American Rescue Plan is laying the foundation
for that economy.  But we still need the American Jobs Plan to build on
that foundation to build this country back better.

So, the bottom line is this: Today’s report is good news.  Today’s
report shows that the country can — what it can do when we act together
to fight a virus, to give working people the help they need.  But we
still have a long way to go, but I know that we are going to get there
and we’re going to get there together. 

May God bless you all.  And may you have a happy Easter and a holy
Easter.  Thank you. 

Q    How much credit are you taking for today’s numbers?

THE PRESIDENT:  I’m giving credit to the American people. 

Q    Is there a risk, sir, if raising taxes could slow the economy? 

THE PRESIDENT:  Raising taxes, the studies show, will not slow the
economy at all.  Asking corporate America just to pay their fair share
will not slow the economy at all.  It will make the economy function
better and will create more energy.

Q    Mr. President, Mitch McConnell says he’s going to fight your
administration every step of the way.  What is your reaction to that? 

THE PRESIDENT:  (Laughs.)  If the Republicans argue that we don’t need
infrastructure, it need not — they’ve been talking about the need for it
for years now.  If the Republicans decide that we need it but they’re
not going to pay for it — it’s just going to increase the deficit; if
the Republicans say the next phase of my plan — we don’t need to invest
in VA hospitals and keep the sacred obligation we made to so many
Americans; if the Republicans say that the 400,000 homes and our schools
and daycare centers that have lead pipes — lead pipes delivering water
to their doors — if they say we shouldn’t be doing that, what do you
think would happen if they found out all the lead pipes were up in the
Capitol every time they turned on a water fountain?

So I think — look, I think we’re going to have — I think the
Republicans’ voters are going to have a lot to say about whether we get
a lot of this done. 

Thank you.

11:37 A.M. EDT  
