---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-04-20'
modified_time: 2021-04-20 21:55:42-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/04/20/remarks-by-president-biden-on-the-verdict-in-the-derek-chauvin-trial-for-the-death-of-george-floyd/
published_time: 2021-04-20 10:00:00-04:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on the Verdict in the Derek Chauvin Trial for\
  \ the Death of George\_Floyd"
---
 
Cross Hall

7:11 P.M. EDT  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Today, a jury in Minnesota found former Minneapolis
Police Officer Derek Chauvin guilty on all counts in the murder of
George Floyd last May.  
  
It was a murder in the full light of day, and it ripped the blinders off
for the whole world to see the systemic racism the Vice President just
referred to — the systemic racism that is a stain our nation’s soul; the
knee on the neck of justice for Black Americans; the profound fear and
trauma, the pain, the exhaustion that Black and brown Americans
experience every single day.  
  
The murder of George Floyd launched a summer of protest we hadn’t seen
since the Civil Rights era in the ‘60s — protests that unified people of
every race and generation in peace and with purpose to say, “Enough. 
Enough.  Enough of the senseless killings.”  
  
Today — today’s verdict is a step forward.  I just spoke with the
Governor of Minnesota, who thanked me for the close work with his
team.   
  
And I also just spoke with George Floyd’s family again — a remarkable
family of extraordinary courage.  Nothing can ever bring their brother,
their father back.  But this can be a giant step forward in the march
toward justice in America.  
  
Let’s also be clear that such a verdict is also much too rare.  For so
many people, it seems like it took a unique and extraordinary
convergence of factors: a brave young woman with a smartphone camera; a
crowd that was traumatized — traumatized witnesses; a murder that lasts
almost 10 minutes in broad daylight for, ultimately, the whole world to
see; officers standing up and testifying against a fellow officer
instead of just closing ranks, which should be commended; a jury who
heard the evidence, carried out their civic duty in the midst of an
extraordinary moment, under extraordinary pressure.  
  
For so many, it feels like it took all of that for the judicial system
to deliver a just — just basic accountability.  
  
We saw how traumatic and exhausting just watching the trial was for so
many people.  Think about it, those of you who are listening — think
about how traumatic it was for you.  You weren’t there.  You didn’t know
any of the people.   
  
But it was difficult, especially for the witnesses who had to relive
that day.  
  
It’s a trauma on top of the fear so many people of color live with every
day when they go to sleep at night and pray for the safety of themselves
and their loved ones.  
  
Again — as we saw in this trial, from the fellow police officers who
testified — most men and women who wear the badge  
serve their communities honorably.  
  
But those few who fail to meet that standard  
must be held accountable.  And they were today; one was.  No one should
be above the law.  And today’s verdict sends that message.  
  
But it is not enough.  We can’t stop here.  
  
In order to deliver real change and reform, we can and we must do more
to reduce the likelihood that tragedies like this will ever happen and
occur again; to ensure that Black and brown people or anyone — so they
don’t fear the interactions with law enforcement, that they don’t have
to wake up knowing that they can lose their very life in the course of
just living their life.  They don’t have to worry about whether their
sons or daughters will come home after a grocery store run or just
walking down the street or driving their car or playing in the park or
just sleeping at home.  
  
And this takes acknowledging and confronting, head on, systemic racism
and the racial disparities that exist in policing and in our criminal
justice system more broadly.   
  
You know, state and local government and law enforcement needs to step
up, but so does the federal government.  That’s why I have appointed the
leadership at the Justice Department that I have, that is fully
committed to restoring trust between law enforcement and the community
they are sworn to serve and protect.  I have complete confidence in the
Attorney General — General Garland’s leadership and commitment.   
  
I have also nominated two key Justice Department nominees — Vanita Gupta
and Kristen Clarke — who are eminently qualified, highly respected
lawyers who have spent their entire careers fighting to advance racial
equity and justice.   
  
Vanita and Kristen have the experience and the skill necessary to
advance our administration’s priorities to root out unconstitutional
policing and reform our criminal justice system, and they deserve to be
confirmed.   
  
We also need Congress to act.  George Floyd was murdered almost a year
ago.  There’s meaningful police reform legislation in his name.  You
just heard the Vice President speak of it.  She helped write it. 
Legislation to tackle systemic misconduct in police departments, to
restore trust between law enforcement and the people that are entrusted
to serve and protect.  But it shouldn’t take a whole year to get this
done.  
  
In my conversations with the Floyd family — and I spoke with them again
today — I assured them that we’re going to continue to fight for the
passage of the George Floyd Justice in Policing Act so we can — I can
sign it into law as quickly as possible.  And there’s more to do.   
  
Finally, it’s the work we do every day to change hearts and minds as
well as laws and policies — that’s the work we have to do.  Only then
will full justice and full equality be delivered to all Americans.  And
that’s what I just discussed with the Floyd family.   
  
The guilty verdict does not bring back George.  But through the family’s
pain, they are finding purpose so George’s — George’s legacy will not be
just about his death, but about what we must do in his memory.  
  
I also spoke to Gianna — George’s (inaudible) — George’s young daughter,
again.  When I met her last year — I’ve said this before — at George’s
funeral, I told her how brave I thought she was.  And I, sort of, knelt
down to hold her hand.  I said, “Daddy’s looking down on you.  He’s so
proud.”  She said to me then — I’ll never forget it — “Daddy changed the
world.”  
  
Well, I told her this afternoon, “Daddy did change the world.”  Let that
be his legacy: a legacy of peace, not violence — of justice.   
  
Peaceful expression of that legacy are inevitable and appropriate, but
violent protest is not.  And there are those who will seek to exploit
the raw emotions of the moment — agitators and extremists who have no
interest in social justice; who seek to carry out violence, destroy
property, to fan the flames of hate and division; who will do everything
in their power to stop this country’s march toward racial justice.  We
can’t let them succeed.  
  
This is the time for this country to come together, to unite as
Americans.  There can never be any safe harbor for hate in America.  
  
I’ve said it many times: The battle for the soul of this nation has been
a constant push and pull for more than 240 years — a tug of war between
the American ideal that we’re all created equal and the harsh reality
that racism has long torn us apart.  
  
At our best, the American ideal wins out.  So we can’t leave this moment
or look away, thinking our work is done.  We have to look at it — we
have to — we have to look at it as we did for those 9 minutes and 29
seconds.  We have to listen.  “I can’t breathe.  I can’t breathe.” 
Those were George Floyd’s last words.  We can’t let those words die with
him.  We have to keep hearing those words.  
  
We must not turn away.  We can’t turn away.  We have a chance to begin
to change the trajectory in this country.  It’s my hope and prayer that
we live up to the legacy.  
  
May God bless you.  And may God bless the — George Floyd and his
family.  
  
Thank you for taking the time to be here.  This can be a moment of
significant change.   
  
Thank you.  
  
7:22 P.M. EDT
