---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-04-12'
modified_time: 2021-04-12 17:19:30-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/04/12/remarks-by-president-biden-before-meeting-with-bipartisan-group-of-members-of-congress-to-discuss-the-american-jobs-plan/
published_time: 2021-04-12 17:19:29-04:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden before Meeting with Bipartisan Group of Members\
  \ of Congress to Discuss the American Jobs\_Plan"
---
 
Oval Office

2:26 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT:  Hello, everybody.  I told you a moment ago that I would
comment briefly on what happened in — in Minnesota last night.  We’ve
spoken to the governor and the mayor.  I’ve spoken to the authorities
there. 

And — and I haven’t called Daunte Wright’s family, but our prayers are
with the family.  It was a really tragic thing that happened.  We’re —
and — but I think we got to wait and see what the investigation shows —
and the entire investigation. 

You’ve all watched, I assume — as I did — the film, which is fairly —
the body cam — which is fairly — fairly graphic.  The question is: Was
it an accident?  Was it intentional?  That remains to be determined by a
full-blown investigation. 

But, in the meantime, I want to make it clear again: There is absolutely
no justification — none — for looting, no justification for violence. 
Peaceful protest, understandable. 

And the fact is that, you know, we do know that the anger, pain, and
trauma that exists in the Black community in that environment is real,
it’s serious, and it’s consequential.  But it will not justify violence
and/or looting. 

And so, the question is how we, in an orderly way, make clear that they
get down to a full-blown investigation to determine what the facts are
and what is likely to have happened. 

In the meantime, we’re calling for peace and calm.  And we should listen
to Daunte’s mom, who is calling for peace and calm. 

And that’s all I have to say at this moment on that issue.  So —

Q    Mr. President, do you think there should be federal resources to
help keep the peace?  Do you think you need to take any additional
steps?

THE PRESIDENT:  There are already federal resources.  And we have a
significant — we’ve spent a significant amount of time, unrelating to
this particular case, in dealing with what may be the aftermath of
anything that happens with the trial that’s underway. 

But there will not be lack of help and support from the federal
government if the local authorities believe it’s needed.  I hope it’s
not.

Q    Are you concerned things could be on a razor’s edge, sir?

THE PRESIDENT:  I’m not going to speculate now.  I’m hopeful that there
will be a verdict and an outcome that will be supported by the vast
majority of the people in the region.  And that’s my expectation and
hope. 

Thank you.

Q    Mr. President, do you want to speak on infrastructure? 

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.  Thank you. 

Q    Mr. President, do you want to speak on infrastructure at all, sir?

THE PRESIDENT:  I think — that’s why we’re here.  It’s a bipartisan
meeting here.  We got the Dean here.  Don Young is here.  We got the
Dean.  So everything is going to be all right. 

But, all kidding aside, we’re — we’re — I’m prepared to negotiate as to
how — the extent of the — my infrastructure project, as well as how we
pay for it.  But I — if we get in a serious conversation about how to do
that. 

I think everyone acknowledges we need significant increase in
infrastructure.  It’s going to get down to what we call infrastructure. 
Some people don’t think that — I’m not suggesting anybody here has that
view, but there’s a lot of folks saying that the fact that we have
millions of people not able to drink water because there’s lead in the —
there — it’s coming through lead pipes — I think that’s infrastructure. 
I think broadband is infrastructure.  It’s not just roads, bridges,
highways, et cetera. 

So that’s what we’re going to talk about, and I’m confident everything
is going to work out perfectly.

Q    Mr. President, some Republicans — some Republicans say that they’re
concerned about being “window dressing,” Mr. President.

THE PRESIDENT:  I’m not big on window dressing, if you’ve observed. 

Thank you very much. 

2:31 P.M. EDT
