---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-04-05'
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/04/05/remarks-by-president-biden-after-marine-one-arrival-3/
published_time: 2021-04-05 14:51:37-04:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden After Marine One\_Arrival"
---
 
The Ellipse  
Washington, D.C.

11:43 A.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT: I’ll be talking a lot about —

Q    Mr. President, how —   

THE PRESIDENT:  Let me say something.  We’ll be talking about — a lot
about infrastructure today.  And it’s kind of interesting that when the
Republicans put forward an infrastructure plan, they thought everything
from broadband to dealing with other things would (inaudible) paying for
infrastructure.  Now they’re saying that there’s — only a small portion
of what I’m talking about is infrastructure.

The fact of the matter is that when you’re in a situation where you
can’t turn on the water fountain in school, and worry you’re going to
drink polluted water that affects your health, replacing all those pipes
is infrastructure.  When I’m talking about making sure that you take
that asbestos out of schools, that’s infrastructure.  When I’m talking
about building high-speed rail, that’s infrastructure.  When I’m talking
about making sure you’re in a situation where we can redo some of the
federal buildings that are just absolutely leaking energy every single
day, that’s infrastructure.  And it gets to the roads and bridges and
highways and broadband. 

So I — it’s interesting how their definition of infrastructure has
changed.  But they know it’s — they know we need it.

Q    Are you worried that a higher tax will drive corporations to —

THE PRESIDENT:  Not at all. 

Q    — other countries, though?

THE PRESIDENT:  Not at all.  Look, the tax —

Q    Why not?

THE PRESIDENT:  Because there’s no evidence of that.  The tax was 36
percent.  It’s now down to 21 percent.  And the idea that — that’s
bizarre.  We were talking about a 28 percent tax that everybody thought
was just fair enough for everybody.  The idea — you have — here you have
51 or 52 corporations of the Fortune 500 haven’t paid a single penny in
taxes for three years.  Come on, man.  Let’s get real.

So I’ll have a lot to talk about.

Q    Other than — other than how to pay for the plan, where is the room
for negotiation with Republicans?  What parts of your plan are you
willing to do away with, given the definition of infrastructure here is
so different?

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, I’m not going to negotiate with you on that. 
(Laughs.)

Q    Well, no, but what would you —

THE PRESIDENT:  No, but I mean, why would I say that?

Q    What would you tell the American people about where you —

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, I’d tell the American people —

Q    — you’re willing to compromise?

THE PRESIDENT:  — I’m going to push as hard as I can to change the
circumstances so we can compete with the rest of the world — compete
with the rest of the world.  Everybody around the world is investing
billions and billions of dollars in infrastructure, and we’re going to
do it here.

Thank you.

11:45 A.M. EDT
