---
category: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-04-15'
modified_time: 2021-04-15 19:49:35-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/04/15/remarks-by-president-biden-on-russia/
published_time: 2021-04-15 20:15:00-04:00
title: Remarks by President Biden on Russia
---
 
4:56 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT:  Hello, folks.  Thanks for coming over. 

Good afternoon, everyone.  Earlier this week, I spoke with President
Putin of Russia about the nature of our relationship — the relationship
between our two countries.  And I was candid and respectful; the
conversation was candid and respectful. 

Two great powers with significant responsibility for global stability. 
And President Putin and I have had a significant responsibility to
steward that relationship.  I take that responsibility very seriously,
as I’m sure he does.

Russia and Americans are both proud and patriotic people.  And I believe
the Russian people, like the American people, are invested in peaceful
and a secure future of our world. 

During the campaign for my — for the presidency, I was unequivocal that
if I was elected President, I’d respond to any attempt to influence our
elections — the last election — and — because elections are sacred. 
They’re sovereign undertakings, and they’re an expression of the will of
the American people, and we cannot allow a foreign power to interfere in
our dome- — democratic process with impunity. 

And I told him: If it turned out that the invest- — as I thought — that
there was engagement in our elections, that I would — that I’d respond. 

Later, during the transition, as we learned more about the SolarWinds
cyber intrusion, I made clear that I would respond once we determined
who had, in fact, conducted a hack on the scope and scale that occurred.

When President Putin called me in January, after I was sworn in, to
congratulate me, I told him that my administration — we were looking
very carefully, now that we had access to all the data, at the issues
that — to assess Russia’s role and then determine what response we would
make. 

When we spoke again this week, I told him that we would shortly be
responding in a measured and proportionate way because we had concluded
that they had interfered in the election and SolarWinds was totally out
of the — inappropriate. 

Today, I’ve approved several steps, including expulsion of several
Russian officials, as a consequence of their actions.  I’ve also signed
an executive order authorizing new measures, including sanctions to
address specific harmful actions that Russia has taken against U.S.
interests. 

I was clear with President Putin that we could have gone further, but I
chose not to do so, to be — I chose to be proportionate. 

The United States is not looking to kick off a cycle of ecs- — of
escalation and conflict with Russia.  We want a stable, predictable
relationship. 

If Russia continues to interfere with our democracy, I’m prepared to
take further actions to respond.  It is my responsibility, as President
of the United States, to do so. 

But throughout our long history of competition, our two countries have
been able to find ways to manage tensions and to keep them from
escalating out of control.

There are also areas where Russia and the United States can and should
work together.  For example, in the earliest days of my administration,
we were able to move quickly to extend, for five years, the New START
Treaty, and maintain that key element of nuclear stability between our
nations.  That was in the interest of the United States, of Russia, and,
quite frankly, of the world, and we got it done. 

When I spoke to President Putin, I expressed my belief that
communication between the two of us, personally and directly, was to be
essential in moving forward to a more effective relationship.  And he
agreed on that point. 

To that end, I proposed that we meet in person this summer in Europe,
for a summit to address a range of issues facing both of our countries. 
Our teams are discussing that possibility right now. 

And out of that summit — were it to occur, and I believe it will — the
United States and Russia could launch a strategic stability dialogue to
pursue cooperation in arms control and security.  We can address
critical global challenges that require Russia and the United States to
work together, including reining in nuclear threats from Iran and North
Korea, ending this pandemic globally, and meeting the existential crisis
of climate change. 

I also made clear to President Clutin \[sic\] that the United — Putin —
that the United States is unwavering in our support of our allies and
partners in Europe.  In that vein, I expressed concern about Russia’s
military buildup on Ukraine’s border and occup- — and in occupied
Crimea.  I affirmed U.S. support for the sovereignty and territorial
integrity of Ukraine.  And I strongly urged him to refrain from any
military action. 

Now is the time to de-escalate.  The way forward is through thoughtful
dialogue and diplomatic process.  The U.S. is prepared to continue
constructively to move forward that process.

My bottom line is this: Where it is in the interest of the United States
to work with Russia, we should and we will.  Where Russia seeks to
violate the interests of the United States, we will respond.  And we’ll
always stand in defense of our country, our institutions, our people,
and our allies. 

Thank you very much for your time. 

Q    Mr. President, did President Putin give you any indication in that
call that he is willing to change his behavior?

THE PRESIDENT:  We indicated we would talk about it.  I laid out, as I
said, very simply — I told — I said during the campaign; I said when he
called to congratulate me on being elected; I said, subsequent to that,
this last conversation, that if it turned out that he was engaged in the
activities that he’d been accused of in cybersecurity and SolarWinds and
interfering in our elections that I would respond in kind. 

I urged him to respond appropriately, not to exceed it, because we can
move as well.  My hope and expectation is we’ll be able to work out a
modus vivendi.  And — but it’s important that we have direct talks and
that we continue to be in contact with one another. 

Thank you.

Q    (Cross-talk.)

THE PRESIDENT:   Pardon me?

Q    Why not — on Nord Stream, why didn’t you keep going with the sanct-
— sanctions on Nord Stream 2, Mr. President?

THE PRESIDENT:  Nord Stream 2 is a complicated issue affecting our
allies in Europe.  I’ve been opposed to Nord Stream 2 for a long time,
from the beginning, when I was even — when I was out of office and even
before office, when we — before I left office as Vice President.  But
that still is an issue that is in play. 

Thank you very much.

5:03 P.M. EDT
