---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-04-12'
modified_time: 2021-04-12 16:41:53-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/04/12/remarks-by-president-biden-at-a-virtual-ceo-summit-on-semiconductor-and-supply-chain-resilience/
published_time: 2021-04-12 17:00:00-04:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at a Virtual CEO Summit on Semiconductor and Supply\
  \ Chain\_Resilience"
---
 
Roosevelt Room

1:33 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, look, the reason I’m here today is — all of these
technology manufacturing leaders around the country and all over the
world on the screens — is to talk about how we strengthen our domestic
semiconductor industry and secure America’s supply chain. 

This is an issue that has broad support in United States Congress. 
We’ve talked about whether or not we’re doing anything in terms of
bipartisanly.  Well, we are.  Both sides of the aisle are strongly
supportive of what we’re proposing, and I — and where I think we can
really get things done for the American people.

In fact, today, I received a letter from 23 senators — bipartisanly —
and 42 House members — Republican and Democrats — supporting the CHIPS
for America program. 

Now, let me quote from the letter.  It says, the Chinese Communist Party
is — “aggressively plans to reorient and dominate the semiconductor
supply chain…”  And it goes into how much money they’re pouring in to
being able to be able to do that.  But I’ve just — I’ve been saying for
some time now: China and the rest of the world is not waiting, and
there’s no reason why Americans should wait. 

We’re investing aggressively in areas like semiconductors and
batteries.  That’s what they’re doing and others; so must we.  We are
seeking a significant investment in the — in this piece of legislation. 
And it’s important, but we know it’s not sufficient. 

The American Jobs Plan that I’ve put forward is part of — about
revitalizing American manufacturing and securing our supply chains,
investing in research and development, as we used to, in a very healthy
manner. 

But it’s also about much more than that.  It’s about investing in
infrastructure — and infrastructure not for the 20th century, but the
21st century.  It’s not just roads and bridges; we’re investing in water
systems so Americans can have clean water infrastructure.  We’re
investing in high-speed rail infrastructure.  We’re building charging
stations to support America’s electric future — electric vehicle future
and investing in that infrastructure; and building out America’s supply
chain so we never again are at the mercy of another country or any other
nation for the critical needs.  That’s what we’d mean by investing in
infrastructure.

And we’re investing in a more resilient grid, investing — I understand
you discussed that a little bit earlier today.  Investing as well in
asbestos-free schools for our kids — that’s investing in
infrastructure.  Building a support system to take care of our elderly
parents and our kids with disabilities at home so that people can go to
work — that’s investing in infrastructure. 

Chips, like the one I have here — these chips, these wafers, are
batteries, broadband; it’s all infrastructure.  This is infrastructure. 

So, look, we need to build the infrastructure of today, not repair the
one of yesterday.  And the plan I propose is going to create millions of
jobs, rebuild America, protect our supply chains, and revitalize
American manufacturing.  And it’s going to make America research and
development a great engine again.

We led the world in the middle of the 20th century.  We led the world
toward the end of the century.  We’re going to lead the world again. 
We’re going to lead it again in the 21st century.

We’re — we have the best minds in the country; many of them are on the
screen right now.  And they know better than anyone that our
competitiveness depends on where you invest and how you invest. 

For too long as a nation, we haven’t been making the big, bold
investments we need to outpace our global competitors.  We’ve been
falling behind on research and development and manufacturing.  And put
it bluntly, we have to step up our game. 

And I’m not ready to give up.  I’m ready to work with all of you, with
the Congress — both parties — to pass the American Jobs Plan and to make
a once-in-a-generation investment in America’s future. 

Again, we’ll provide the innovation and spur breakthroughs.  And we need
— we need the support — all your support — on the screen and others, in
order to get this work done.  And we need you, in turn, to support the
American workers and American communities in every part of the country. 

This is a moment for American strength and American unity; for
government, industries, communities to work together to make sure that
we’re ready to meet the global competition that lies ahead, not
continuing to slide in terms of our investment.  We’re ranked, like,
number 25th in the world now.  That’s not American. 

So I want to thank you all very much.  And I appreciate all the time
you’ve given us.

Q    Mr. President, could you speak to the issue in Minnesota, please,
sir?

AIDE:  Thank you, guys.  Let’s go.

Q    Wait.  The President is going to speak.

THE PRESIDENT:  Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa,
whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa.  Hang on, just a second.

Q    Mr. President, would you like to —

THE PRESIDENT:  Wait, wait.  Wait a —

Q    — speak to the issue in Minnesota?

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, wait a second.  What I’m going to do — I’m going
to see you all again in a few minutes.  I just took — taken the time,
even though I was a few minutes late, to listen to the press
conference.  I’m preparing a statement, and I’ll be happy to talk with
you at the next meeting. 

Okay?  Thank you so much. 

1:39 P.M. EDT
