---
category: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-04-23'
modified_time: 2021-04-23 22:05:39-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/04/23/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-and-secretary-of-the-interior-deb-haaland-april-23-2021/
published_time: 2021-04-23 22:15:00-04:00
title: Press Briefing by Press Secretary Jen Psaki and Secretary of the Interior Deb
  Haaland, April 23, 2021
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

11:43 A.M. EDT

MS.  PSAKI:  Hi, everyone.  Happy Friday.  We have another very exciting
guest today: our new Secretary of the Interior, Deb Haaland, who made
history when she became the first Native American to serve as a Cabinet
Secretary.  She is the member — she is a member of the Pueblo of Laguna
and a 35th-generation New Mexican.

Secretary Haaland has worn many hats throughout her career.  She ran a
small business; served as a Tribal Administrator; and became the first
woman elected to the Laguna Development Corporation Board of Directors,
overseeing the business operations of the second-largest Tribal gaming
enterprise in New Mexico. 

She also became the first Native American woman to be elected to lead a
state party.  In 2018, she became one of the first Native American women
to serve in Congress.  In Congress, she focused on environmental
justice, climate change, missing and murdered Indigenous women, and
family-friendly policies.

She joins us today, on the second day of the Climate Summit, to
underscore our commitment to protecting public lands and strengthening
Tribal sovereignty. 

She’s happy to take just a couple of questions because she has a hard
out.  And I will, as always, be the bad cop.  And please welcome — thank
you again for joining us. 

SECRETARY HAALAND:  Thank you.  Thank you so much, Jen. 

Good morning, everyone. 

Q    Good morning.

SECRETARY HAALAND:  Thank you.  Thank you so much.  And thank you, Jen,
for inviting me to be here today.  I want to start off by wishing
everyone a happy National Park Week.  I hope you found a chance to get
out and experience your public lands this week.  The White House is
actually a national park, so technically, we’re all celebrating a bit
right now. 

I had always wanted to be a National Park Ranger.  And while I didn’t
quite land that job yet, I’m pretty excited that, tomorrow night, I get
the chance to swear in some Junior Rangers.  All of your kids are
welcome to join during the U.S. Army Field Band’s virtual concert
tomorrow night.  I think you can find the link on our website. 

I was happy, also, to celebrate this morning with the Second Gentleman;
we announced 16 new listings to the Underground Railroad Network to
Freedom Program.  Our park system is our nation’s storyteller, and I’m
eager to ensure that these national treasures help tell a more inclusive
and accurate story of our nation. 

This week has brought significant news on climate action and on issues
impacting Tribal communities.  And so, I’m honored and grateful to have
the opportunity to speak with you and take your questions today. 

We have no shortage of work ahead: President Biden has set ambitious
goals that will ensure America and the world can meet the urgent demands
of the climate crisis while empowering our nation’s workers and
businesses to lead a clean energy revolution. 

I believe that a clean energy future is within our grasp in the United
States, but it will take all of us and the best available science to
make it happen.  The Interior Department is in a unique position to be a
leader in putting our nation on a path to achieve net-zero emissions,
create good-paying jobs, and benefit underserved communities. 

We have taken steps in just the past few weeks to advance offshore wind
proposals, restore balance to management of our public lands and waters,
and create jobs, and revitalize land in coal communities. 

I’ll also touch on Interior’s work to honor our nation-to-nation
relationship with Indian Tribes and uphold our trust and treaty
responsibilities. 

I believe, just as President Biden does, that we must engage Tribal
nations with an all-of-government approach, and one need look no further
than the First Lady’s visit to the Navajo Nation to speak and hear from
Tribal leaders and Indigenous People. 

For too long, Indian issues were relegated to the Tribal offices within
federal agencies.  If we’re going to make sure that Native American and
Alaska Native communities thrive, that Tribal sovereignty is respected
and strengthened.  And if we are truly to repair our nation-to-nation
relationships, then that means every federal agency needs to be thinking
boldly about our obligations to Indigenous Peoples. 

The significance of being the first Native American to serve in the
Cabinet is not lost on me.  As I stand here today at this podium, I am
moved by how monumental this week alone has been for Indigenous
representation. 

On Monday, I delivered remarks on behalf of the U.S. government at the
U.N. Permanent Forum on Indigenous Issues, where I affirmed our
commitment to advancing Indigenous Peoples’ rights at home and abroad. 
I talked about how we’re putting the full weight of our federal
government behind a cross-departmental Missing and Murdered Unit to
address the crisis in Indian Country.

Yesterday, I announced that Interior is moving forward to implement the
Not Invisible Act, establishing a joint commission led by Interior and
the Department of Justice on reducing violent crime against Indigenous
Peoples.

And later today, Domestic Policy Advisor, Ambassador Susan Rice, and I
will convene the first White House Council on Native American Affairs
meeting of the Biden-Harris Administration.

We’re wasting no time.  We have an ambitious agenda.  And so, I’m ready
to roll up my sleeves and get to work across the Cabinet in identifying
and supporting Tribal equities in the administration’s core policy
pillars. 

Last, I come from a family that farms, ranches, and hunts.  I’ve grown
up in rural and agricultural communities, and I know what it’s like to
live in a community that’s been left behind.  These experiences
underscore while I believe — why I believe so deeply in the work that we
do at the Interior Department and why I know that we can and will make a
difference in the everyday lives of families across this country. 

And with that, I’m happy to try and answer your questions. 

MS. PSAKI:  Nancy, go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Secretary Haaland.  Can you give us an update on the
moratorium on fracking on federal lands — new contracts?

SECRETARY HAALAND:  Thank you so much.  So the pause on new leases is
still in effect until we finish a review that is due to the President. 
That means that the existing leases are still in effect.  We are still
issuing permits on those lands.  And when we finish the review — it’s an
important review — we’re talking to many people; we’ve had a for- — a
gas and oil forum;  we’ve talked to many folks across the country. 

When that review is done, then us and the President will decide next
steps.

Q    And can you give us a little bit more details on how that review
works, what exactly you’re doing, and when you think it’ll be concluded?

SECRETARY HAALAND:  So, I can’t say exactly when it will be concluded,
but, as I mentioned, we’ve had a gas and oil forum, already.  That was
virtual.  The Department folks are talking to governors, to legislators,
to folks on the ground.  We’re talking to —

It’s mostly, like, getting everyone’s input.  We want to make sure that
every voice has a seat at the table, and it’s really that, as well as
using the science.  And that’s how we’ll do the review.  And it’ll go to
the President. 

MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead.

Q    We’ve heard from Republicans in Utah talk about their preference
for legislation to expand the size of Bears Ears instead of executive
action.  Do you think there’s room for bipartisan work there, or are we
probably looking at executive action from this administration?

SECRETARY HAALAND:  Well, I met with those legislators when I was in
Utah — the governor, the lieutenant governor, my former colleagues from
the House.  Legislators legislate, and I think they should move ahead
with legislation if that’s what they want to do.

We will get the report done for the President and send it to the White
House.  And it will really be the President’s decision.  The Antiquities
Act is a presidential — you know it’s — it’s all him; he can decide.

What I did when I went to Utah was make sure that, again, every voice
was at the table.  We talked to ranchers and farmers; we talked to
children who use those lands, and outdoor — you know, economy folks. 
And so, we’re — we want to make sure that we include every voice, and
that’s the report that will go to the President, and he’ll decide.

Q    Can I ask on a different topic of really fast? 

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    We’ve heard so many Tribes this year talk about, “We’re really
struggling with mental health issues for teens…” — I mean, a lot of
teens around the country, but just teens struggling with depression
during this pandemic.  Is that one — an issue that you guys are going be
addressing in this Domestic Council? 

SECRETARY HAALAND:  I can’t — this is our first meeting, so what we’re
really going to do, initially, is assign committees to each Cabinet
Secretary, and it will be up to them to look at the topics. 

Of course, we care deeply about this issue.  It’s one that I know a lot
of people are suffering from, so I appreciate you mentioning that.  And
once we’re able to get a — you know, a clear path on where we’re going
with the Council, we’ll certainly let everyone know.

MS. PSAKI:  Mario, you’ve got to be the last one, but we’ll — we’ll
invite her back.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  Thank you, Madam Secretary.

Just piggybacking — a couple questions just piggybacking off of your
comments at the top about national parks.  Any reason why they’re still
at reduced capacity when we know that social distancing outside is a
best possible case for COVID?

SECRETARY HAALAND:  Well, let’s — first of all, I’ll say, we are taking
every possible precaution to make sure that we are keeping people safe. 
I don’t ever want to jump the gun on this.  We know there’s a lot of
vaccinations that are happening.  Yes, our country is safer since
President Biden has been in office; we’re just not quite there yet. 

They’ll continually monitor that situation.  We want everyone to keep
their masks on, to social distance, and — and I appreciate the
question.  We can look into it, and absolutely get back with you.

Q    And more business related: What’s your plan for restarting the sale
of oil and gas leases in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico? 

SECRETARY HAALAND:  Once we are — once we — so, existing leases are
already happening.  As I mentioned earlier, there’s not a moratorium on
— even on new leases; they’re just a pause.  So, when we — when we have
the review done — what I’ll say is, right now, permits are still being
issued, so — and there’s still ongoing leases that are happening. 

MS. PSAKI:  Thank you, Secretary Haaland. 

SECRETARY HAALAND:  Thank you.

MS. PSAKI:  Thank you for joining us, and you’re welcome back anytime. 

SECRETARY HAALAND:  Thank you. 

Q    Thank you. 

SECRETARY HAALAND:  Nice to see you all.  Happy National Park Week. 
(Laughter.)

MS. PSAKI:  National Park Week — a good thing to celebrate. 

Okay.  A couple of other items for all of you at the top.  As you know,
President Biden just concluded a historic Climate Summit with 50 world
leaders to show that America is back at the table. 

On the first day, he upped the ante, announcing that the United States
will target reducing emissions by 50 to 52 percent by 2030 compared to
2005 levels.  He underscored America’s commitment to leading a clean
energy revolution and creating good-paying union jobs. 

We also want to lead the way, here in the federal government, toward
achieving — and act in a way that demonstrates our leadership on these
issues.  So some examples of our commitments, which some of you may have
seen, but — include the GSA is committing to power its approximately
186-million-square-foot, federally-owned real estate portfolio with 100
percent renewable electricity by — sources by 2025. 

The Department of Transportation is taking a comprehensive approach to
addressing the climate crisis and expanding ways for all modes of
transportation to transition to zero emissions.  Examples include
funding for lower-emission buses and expanding access to electric
vehicle charging stations. 

The Department of Defense is announcing a plan to complete climate
exposure assessments on all major U.S. installations within 12 months
and all major installations outside the continental United States within
24 months using the Defense Climate Assessment Tool.

And the EPA will fund $1 million in grants and cooperative agreements
through — through — to work with underserved and vulnerable communities,
including Indigenous communities, to prepare them for climate-related
impacts.  So it’s an across-government approach. 

Also, we wanted to highlight that today the Department of Education
announced plans to distribute $800 million in funding from the American
Rescue Plan for states to support students experiencing homelessness. 
The Department also took a series of steps this week to help states and
districts access the $122 billion in American Rescue Plan Elementary and
Secondary School Emergency Relief Funds to support the safe reopening of
K-through-12 schools and address equity gaps exacerbated by the
pandemic. 

Also this week, USDA issued a broad range of — the U.S. Department of
Agriculture, I should say — issued a broad range of flexibilities that
will allow schools and childcare institutions to serve healthy meals for
free to all kids in the upcoming 2021-through-2022 — through —
schoolyear.  Roughly 30 million kids participate in school meals
programs, and we know that, for lots of kids, school meals are the
healthiest meals they consume all day.

Due to supply chain issues during the pandemic, USDA is giving schools
added resources to maintain the nutrition standards of the school meal
programs, including a strong emphasis on providing fruits and
vegetables, milk, and whole grains.

And because, as many of you know, the pandemic caused steep spikes in
hunger and food insecurity, re- — leading to, as we’ve talked about a
bit in here, one in seven families struggling to put food on the table,
we’ve also — we are heartened by the sharp decline from the
implementation of a lot of these funds, as you can see in this chart, in
the number of American households that say they’re behind on rent or did
not have enough to eat in the past week.

Obviously, there’s a lot of work to go, and a lot more to be done.  But
we can see a clear, positive downward trend on this chart, which is
quite encouraging. 

Finally, a quick preview of the week ahead.  On Tuesday, the President
will deliver remarks on the COVID-19 pandemic.  As you all know,
Wednesday, the President will address a joint session of Congress. 
Among other topics, as we talked about a bit yesterday, he will lay out
the American Families Plan, the specific details, and discuss a number
of other issues that are important and major priorities to him,
including expanding access to healthcare, and addressing — putting in
place policing reforms.

On Thursday, on the President’s 100th day in office, he and the First
Lady will travel to Georgia to highlight how he’s delivered on his
promises to the American people.  While he is there, he will participate
in a car rally. 

And on Friday, he will have additional out-of-town travel that we will
hopefully have more details for you in the coming days.

Finally, I know many of you saw this and reported it and tweeted it, but
we announced this morning that the President will travel to the United
Kingdom and Belgium in June for his first overseas trip as President. 
This trip will highlight his commitment to restoring our alliances, to
revitalizing the transatlantic relationship, and working in close
cooperation with our allies and multilateral partners to address global
challenges and better secure America’s interests.

He will attend the G7 Summit in Cornwall, which is happening from June
11th through the 13th.  He will then travel to Brussels, Belgium, where
he will participate in the NATO Summit on June 14th.  And while in
Brussels, the President will also participate in the U.S.–EU Summit.

With that, kick us off. 

Q    All right.  Thank you.  The Climate Summit promised reductions in
carbon emissions that the President announced this week. 

MS. PSAKI:  Mm-hmm.

Q    Without the investments in the infrastructure proposal, can those
be achieved?  And with that, is that then — is there some red line with
Republicans that you have as a result of making those goals happen?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, first: Yes, absolutely it can be achieved because we
have several paths toward achieving that objective and that goal.  Some
include legislation — the American Jobs Plan.  But there are additional
legislative options; there’s executive options that are — are also on
the table — and, of course, working with the private sector and states
and localities to taking — continuing to take additional steps forward.

But I’ll also say that we have every intention of getting the American
Jobs Plan passed and signed into law.  As we saw, and we talked about a
bit yesterday, there was a Republican counterproposal yesterday. 

The stage we’re in now is: We will have discussions.  We’ll get a full
briefing.  We expect those to happen through the course of the next
several days.  We’ll review that plan.  We’ll ask questions at a staff
level.  And then the President will invite a number of those members
down here to the White House.

Q    And if I could ask just one more.

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.

Q    Is the President speaking today with President Erdoğan?  And with
that, you know, the Turkish Foreign Minister said earlier this week that
if President Biden goes forward with his campaign pledge on Armenian
genocide recognition, that it would harm U.S.-Turkey ties.  How much is
that idea weighing on the President’s mind as he makes this decision
whether or not to follow through on the campaign pledge, especially with
the need for Turkish cooperation on things like Afghanistan and Iran?

MS. PSAKI:  I certainly understand your line of questioning.  I know
there’s a great deal of interest in this particular area.  I don’t have
any calls of — with foreign leaders to predict for you.  As would be the
case with any call, we will certainly provide a readout once — whenever
we do a call with a foreign leader and the President of the United
States, and actually down the — down the rung below them as well. 

In terms of delivering on his campaign pledge, I don’t have anything to
preview for you on that front either.  I expect we’ll have more in the
coming days.

Go ahead.

Q    Jen, on the Republican counteroffer: Now that you’ve had a chance
to peruse it, does the White House have any public reaction to what
they’re putting out there?

MS. PSAKI:  Only a day.  Only a day. 

Q    Still, there’s initial reaction. 

MS. PSAKI:  As we said yesterday, Nancy, we are — the President’s only
red line is inaction.  We want to have an exchange of ideas on both
sides and — from both sides of the aisle.  In our view, this is an
example of that.  We’re reviewing the details of the proposal. 

We’re starting to have conversations at the staff level today.  We
expect those to proceed through the course of next week.  We’ll ask
questions.  We’ll exchange additional ideas.  But our view: This is a
good start and we look forward to having the conversation moving
forward.

Q    But it sounds like you have a bit of a different posture on this
counteroffer than you did to their counteroffer to the American Rescue
Plan. 

MS. PSAKI:  That’s true.  We do.  The American Rescue Plan was a plan
and a proposal that was meeting what we felt was a crisis situation,
which was getting the pandemic under control, putting millions of
Americans back to work.  The President felt — as he said many times, as
I said many times — there was an urgency in moving that forward and
there was less flexibility because he felt the size of that package
needed to meet the moment.

We are quite open to the mechanisms of how his ideas can move forward. 
It can be in a number of pack- — of different proposals.  It can be
worked through negotiating between members of Democrats and
Republicans.  There are a lot of ideas, including the Frontiers bill
that Senator Schumer has put forward, where we feel there’s an
opportunity to move forward in a bipartisan manner and there’s some
overlap with what’s been proposed in the American Jobs Plan. 

So we do see it as different.  We do think the process will be
different.  There’s more time to move forward.  There’s more time to
discuss and negotiate.  And we’ll take advantage of that — that time
available.

Q    Got it.  It’s now been pretty widely reported that you’re not going
to be including a big health coverage expansion in the Families Plan,
and that is — was going to include reducing prescription drug costs. 
Why did the White House decide not to include that in this plan?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I will say that the President is still making final
decisions, as is his prerogative, over the coming days about what will
be included in the speech.  And the American Families Plan and the final
components of that, when those final decisions are made, will be a part
of that as well. 

He will definitely talk in his speech about his commitment to expanding
and increasing access to healthcare, as is evidenced by the fact that we
have opened up the enrollment period for the Affordable Care Act,
ensuring that more than 500,000 Americans that didn’t have health
insurance have it now.  That’s why he’s in — he included subsidies in
the American Rescue Plan to make it even less expensive.

But I will also say, even as he’s making these final decisions, that the
American Families Plan and the speech on Wednesday will not represent
the totality of every priority item for him and every item on his agenda
that he wants to move forward as President.

Q    And then finally, if you don’t mind, India saw the biggest number
of new cases in a day ever, yesterday.  Are there any plans to send any
of the U.S. stockpile of AstraZeneca vaccine or any vaccine to India?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, let me first say that the United States offers our
deepest sympathy to the people of India, who are clearly suffering
during this global pandemic, and we are working closely with Indian
officials at both political and experts’ level to identify ways to help
address the crisis. 

We’ve made vaccine cooperation a big priority, including with our Quad
partners — India is one of our Quad partners, of course — and discussing
vaccine creation and distribution for the future.  We’ve also provided
$4 billion to COVAX. 

And from the earliest stages of the pandemic, we’ve provided India with
emergency relief supplies, medical consumables, pandemic training for
Indian state and local health officials, and ventilators, which has been
part of our effort over the course of time, including $1.4 billion in
health assistance to India, to help them prepare for pandemics in the
future and deal with the current one we’re facing. 

So there are ongoing discussions.  I don’t have anything more to
preview, but we are in touch with them at a range of levels about how we
can help get through this period — help them get through this period of
time.

Q    Thanks, Jen.

MS. PSAKI:  Sure thing. 

Go ahead.

Q    Back to the infrastructure negotiations.

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    We saw the White House respond pretty positively that they would at
least consider Joe Manchin’s proposal to raise the corporate tax rate to
25 instead of 28 percent, as was the initial proposal.  So should we
read this conversation about raising the corporate tax rate to 39.5
percent as more of a starting offer?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, the President’s proposal for the American Jobs Plan
was about modernizing and making a historic investment in our
infrastructure.  The tax component was about how to pay for it.  We’re
very open to a range of options.  And he has some lines in the sand
we’ve talked about, including not having American — the American people
pay for it — or to not being on the backs of the American people.

As it relates to the capital gains rates and the top margins that you’ve
seen reported out there: You know, the President’s bottom line is that
people making under $400,000 a year should not — will not have their
taxes go up.  So if you look at those — these proposed numbers, which
are consistent with what he talked about on the campaign trail when he
was running for President, what I can say is that it will only affect
people making more than $1 million a year.  That’s 0.3 percent of
taxpay- — payers, or 3 out of every 1,000 taxpayers.  That’s even as the
top 1 percent saw their net worth rise by $4 trillion in the middle of a
historic pandemic.

So he has some bottom lines of where he will not budge past — right? —
on individual numbers and who im- — and who will be impacted, but he’s
also open to discussion. 

Q    And we’re hearing that the White House is also considering, in the
proposal, ending the Child Tax Credit, even though we’ve seen
progressives and —

MS. PSAKI:  You mean “extending it”?  Ending?

Q    Phasing it out. 

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  Well —

Q    Is that wrong?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, it’s not — it’s not permanent, currently.

Q    Exactly.  So are you guys going to take —

MS. PSAKI:  So you mean extending it or making it permeant?

Q    Is that the position — the definite position? 

MS. PSAKI:  The — 

Q    Progressives and plenty of moderates also say that it should be
extended permanently, is that the position?

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  What I was trying to clarify — I apologize — is that
it’s not currently permanent.

Q    Right.

MS. PSAKI:  So the question is whether it will be permanent.

Q    Whether that’ll be a red line, like you said, or —

MS. PSAKI:  Well —

Q    — a definite part of proposal. 

MS. PSAKI:  And the President absolutely feels that — that the Child Tax
Credit provides essential funding and help to people who need help the
most.  That’s why, in the American Rescue Plan, he increased the Child
Tax Credit from $2,000 to $3,000 per child, and to $3,600 for children
under the age of 6.  And the expansion was the single-largest policy
contributor to cutting child poverty, as is evidenced by the chart we
had up.

We’re looking into the mechanisms and the cost of expanding the Child
Tax Credit.  And that certainly is under consideration for the American
Families Plan. 

Q    Yeah, it doesn’t sound like you guys want to budge on that one. 

MS. PSAKI:  I think you’re confusing though — it’s current — and I don’t
I mean that — it’s — it’s not currently permanent, so we’re not —

Q    Right.

MS. PSAKI:  We’re talking about —

Q    And there was just reporting over —

MS. PSAKI:  — how long it will be extended.

Q    Right.

MS. PSAKI:  And so, what I’m saying is that we are quite open.  We want
— we think this Child Tax Credit is valuable.  It is a huge — it has a
huge impact on lowering pov- — the cost — poverty — reducing the level
of poverty in our country.  It helps women get back into the workforce. 

What we’re determining is what we can do.  And there’s a cost of it —
it’s about a billion dollars a year for every year.  And so, we have to
figure out how to pay for it and there’s — this is all a part of the
discussion. 

Q    Could I ask a question about Johnson & Johnson really fast?

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.

Q    We’ve seen so many of the FEMA mobile clinics rely on the J&J shot,
mostly because you don’t have to keep it so cold and it’s one shot. 
FEMA confirmed that only nine of its mobile clinics were still
operational during this last week with the pause.  So is the — just how
hard it is to get the Moderna and Pfizer shots in those mobile clinics,
part of the slowing rate of vaccinations that we’re seeing?

MS. PSAKI:  I — I’m happy to check and see if that’s a factor.  What I
understand the biggest factor is, though, is that we’re now at a point
where we have reached — you know, just two weeks ago, only 43 — 43, it’s
still significant — percent of adults, two weeks ago, were vaccinat- —
had received their first dose; now it’s 52 percent.  Just two weeks ago,
only 66 million people had ri- — had been fully vaccinated; now it’s
over 90 million. 

So we’re kind of getting to this point, as I think Jeff Zients touched
on this morning, where we are entering a new phase where it is more
challenging.  We have — we don’t have — we have less of a supply issue;
we have more of a — it’s incumbent upon us to reach people and meet them
where they are.  So that’s the bigger challenge, in terms of the
numbers, at this point in time.

In terms of the difficulty, I think you’re asking about Moderna and
Pfizer and how that impacts getting into mobile units. 

Q    Yeah, the —

MS. PSAKI:  The temperature —

Q    — the mobile clinics weren’t really set up to be doing Moderna
shots, Pfizer shots. 

MS. PSAKI:  I’ll have to check with our COVID team on how they see that
as an impact.  And obviously, we are continuing to adjust the way and
the means at which we’re getting into communities.  And, you know, we
make adjustments by — based on what we think is the most effective.

Obviously, the increase — massive increase in pharmacies is a reflection
of that reduction in some of the vaccination sites.  We also make
evaluations by where it is most impactful to invest.  And some of what
we’ve been doing lately has been increasing our investment in community
health centers, in primary care physicians, obviously, in pharmacies. 
But I will check with our team and see if that’s a factor.

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Jen.  With the President’s first trip abroad in June —
that’s going to be the first time a President has actually traveled
internationally since the start of the pandemic — and I’m wondering if,
by the time he leaves to go on that trip in June, is he going to lift
travel restrictions to Europe as well?

MS. PSAKI:  I can’t make a prediction of that.  That is based on the
health and recommendations — the health and medical — the advice and
recommendations of our health and medical team.  And I don’t have
anything to predict on that front.

Q    Have there been conversations about that, given he is going to be
traveling internationally, about whether it can be a period where
everyday Americans also start resuming that kind of a travel?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say I think most Americans would see it as
slightly different from the President of —

Q    Of course.

MS. PSAKI:  — the United State.  I’m not suggesting other — you’re
saying otherwise.  But, as the President of the United States — making a
diplomatic trip, abiding by COVID protocols, and flying on Air Force One
— than whether it is safe for mass numbers to fly internationally. 

Obviously, everybody wants that to be reopened — Europeans, we do,
American people who would like to travel.  But, you know, those
conversations are really happening between health and medical experts. 
And we’ll — they make an evaluation based on what they think is safe for
the American public. 

Q    Okay.  Thank you.  And on climate: You know, there have been a lot
of questions about the President’s new announcement about what he wants
to see by 2030.

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    But I think there are still questions about the specifics of how
they’re actually going to get there.  So there have been studies that
have suggested that to get to that kind of a goal, more than half of the
new cars and SUVs that are being sold at dealerships would need to be
electric; right now, it’s only about 2 percent.  Is that something that
the President agrees with, that they need to be at half of those being
electric by 2030?

MS. PSAKI:  You know, that’s not a goal that — that’s not a number or a
goal that he set — because he feels that there are a number of ways to
get there.  And that — I saw that reporting as well.  That’s an example
of a way to get there, but there are additional ways, you know,
including — that impact a lot of sectors from electricity,
transportation, buildings, industry, and lands. 

Our view is, there a lot of pathways to get to reach this goal.  Some of
it will be done through legislation, through laws that will be put in
place.  Some of it will be done to incentivize investment in areas like
electric vehicles and electric charging stations, which is already
happening in the private sector.  Right?  A lot of the car companies
will tell you this is where the future of their — their industries are
going anyway.  But we want to incentivize and make that something that
we can jumpstart in a lot of those industries.

But we’ve — there are a lot of options for how we get there.  And so, it
isn’t just one pathway to get there. 

Q    Okay, well, I’ve got —

MS. PSAKI:  Oh, go ahead.

Q    Sorry, I’ve got one more question.  On this Emergent facility in
Baltimore —

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  Yeah.

Q    — that, of course, has been plagued with issues, it seems like. 
And now U.S. regulators have conducted a study and found that they did
not follow proper manufacturing procedures, they had poorly trained
staff that resulted in the contamination of materials that, of course,
ruined what could have amounted to millions of Johnson & Johnson doses. 

This is a company that got $630 million from the federal government
under the Trump administration.  But is that a contract that you are
going to keep or has there been discussion about canceling that contract
and not working with this company, given they have not produced one
usable dose of the COVID-19 vaccine?

MS. PSAKI:  Well I think some of the AstraZeneca doses did come from
there, but — that have gone to other countries.  But I will say that we
— we believe —

Q    But for the U- — the United States —

MS. PSAKI:  For the U.S.

Q    — (inaudible) —

MS. PSAKI:  Fair.  For the U.S.

Q    — the $630 million.

MS. PSAKI:  For the U.S.

Q    Okay.

MS. PSAKI:  I will say, to take some pressure off of the — or take some
criticism off of the former administration, there are a limited number
of manufacturing facilities that have the capacity — as you know, you’ve
been covering this for some time — that have the capacity and would have
the ability to produce a vaccine like this in this capacity in size and
numbers. 

There’s no question — hence, they haven’t been approved by the FDA for
manufacturing — that Emergent has not met those bars — and, over time,
has not met those bars. 

In terms of future contracts, I don’t have anything to predict on that
front.  But we’ll contider \[sic\] — continue to look for the FDA to
give the, you know, for it to meet the FDA’s bar before we are providing
vaccines from there to the American people.

Q    So you’re still going down that path for this facility to get
approved by the FDA despite the number of issues that they’ve had?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, again, they have to make changes. Obviously, the FDA
is working closely with them.  And if they make those changes and they
meet the FDA’s bar, that’s a different story.  We’ll see what happens.

Go ahead, Mario.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  Will the First Lady be attending the President’s
joint address next week?  And will she have guests, as has been
traditional in those cases?

MS. PSAKI: It will be a little bit different because, obviously, there
will be a limited number of people who are in — in the Capitol, and a
limited number that will be determined by the Speaker’s office in terms
of who will attend and who will have to watch virtually.  We’ll — most
of our staff, if not all of our staff, will be watching virtually. 

In terms of whether Dr. Biden will physically be there in person, I’ll
have to check on that, Mario. 

In terms of the box, there will not be the traditional box.  You know,
we’re determining how we can, of course, engage the public and ensure we
highlight some of the incredible stories of people who have been helped
by the President’s policies and proposals.  But it will not look like or
feel like, in many ways, what past joint addresses have.

Q    For those that will be attending, are — is the President’s
preference that those people be vaccinated as well?

MS. PSAKI:  This is all — I would send you to the Speaker’s office, and
they are determining attendance and requirements for those who are
attending.

Q    And then, a couple more questions.  Any update on Neera Tanden’s
appointment to the administration at all?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have any update.  The President remains interested
in and committed to finding her a position in the administration and
taking advantage of all of her talents.

Q    And last question: Has the President spoken to the families of
either Daunte Wright or Ma’Khia Bryant in recent days?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have any calls to read out for you, Mario.  I will
check and see if he’s had conversations with any of those families too.

Go ahead, Jeff.

Q    Jen, a follow-up on India.  You said that your discussions about
how to help — can I just ask specifically if the U.S. is helping with
their — with their shortage of oxygen right now?  Is that something that
the U.S. is doing?

MS. PSAKI:  The shortage of oxygen?  Let me — let me check on that for
you, Jeff.  I mean, we have provided, obviously, a range of funding over
the course of time.  It’s a huge, significant amount of funding.  We are
likely one of the world’s largest contributors to India in terms of, you
know, their health needs.  And it’s gone to a range of supplies and
training. 

But I will check if oxygen is specifically a part of how we can help at
this point in time.  And there are ongoing discussions, so it may be
that that’s part of the discussion now.

Q    Okay.  Also on vaccines, the European Union said today that it is
close to finishing a contract with Pfizer to have what would be the
largest contract for vaccine for the coming years.  Is the U.S. in talks
with Pfizer as well to get more vaccine for post-2021?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have anything about — I’m not going to be able to
read out, at any point, any contract discussions with any vaccine
supplier.  I can assure you, having worked with Jeff Zients many times
over, he is an over-preparer and committed to oversupplying the United
States, as is evidenced by the amount we’ve purchased to date.  And
obviously, we’re cognizant about the needs in the future.  But I don’t
have anything — I probably won’t have anything to follow up with you on,
on contract discussions.

Q    Okay.  And just, lastly, yesterday, I think Mario mentioned the
stock market dipped a little bit in response to the reports about your
tax plans.  Just wondering what the White House’s feeling is or reaction
is to that.  Are you concerned about Wall Street’s support or lack of
support for these policies, and to what extent does that play into your
discussions?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I’ve been doing this long enough not to comment on
movements in the stock market, but I did see — just data, factually —
that it went back up this morning.

Go ahead.  Maureen, go ahead. 

Q    Back on healthcare: There is a disagreement among congressional
Democrats about how to use the savings from lowering the government’s
cost on prescription drugs, whether to put it into expanding Medicare or
put it into the expanded saving — expanded subsidies for the Affordable
Care Act.  Is that something that the White House is going to take a
position on?  Are you going to let the congressional Democrats work that
out in any healthcare (inaudible)?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, the President absolutely wants to lower the cost of
prescription drugs and knows the burden on Americans and seniors is far
too high.  He’s talked about that on the campaign trail.  I expect we
will be in discussions about what the plans are and what the options
are.  But we’re not at the point to talk about that publicly quite yet.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  On the — on the border: The administration has
repeatedly cited the use of Title 42 to demonstrate that the border is
not open.  This is a Trump policy that progressive groups are
increasingly arguing that it denies migrants who are flying \[sic\] —
fleeing violence and persecution a right to even apply for asylum.  I
wanted to know what is the White House’s message to these groups who
largely are supportive of this White House, who are concerned about the
continuation of this Trump policy?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, Franco, I would say, first, that we consider it a
policy that was put in place — or that we’ve continued to implement
because we’re still in the middle of a global pandemic.  And that
keeping the American people safe and ensuring that we are taking
responsible steps as it relates to the pandemic is front and center for
the President.  And certainly that’s what we would convey to any of
these groups.

At the same time, we absolutely believe that we should be a country that
— we are a country that wants to treat people humanely, as is evidenced
by our efforts to treat children who come into this country — who are
under 18, who are coming as unaccompanied children — in a manner that
was not the same as the former administration. 

So we understand and we have heard the frustration about this issue, but
our objective — as the President’s objective is to keep systems in place
or keep policies in place or implement policies that help us address the
pandemic.

Q    Do you have some goals or some — some goals of when you may be able
to lift Title 42?

MS. PSAKI:  I can’t make a prediction of that.  That will, of course, be
based on what the evaluation is by our health and medical experts on the
status of the pandemic and the safety of the American people.

Q    Can I ask you — just follow up on the Turkey question?

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.

Q    I mean, Turkey is a NATO member.  Is — is the administration taking
into consi- — what consideration is the administration taking into the
concerns that Turkey has about potentials — this weekend’s activities?

MS. PSAKI:  I certainly understand all the questions.  I just don’t have
anything to — I’m not going to get ahead of the President, or get ahead
of any decisions or announcements.  And, obviously, any decision that
the President makes on foreign policy, he takes into account concerns
expressed by allies and partners around the world.

Q    And can I ask one more about immigration?

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.

Q    You know, as we approach 100 days, obviously, COVID-19 was the
biggest challenge that this administration faced —

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    — but immigration was another one that took a lot of oxygen and
political time from this White House.  Is there any — does the White
House feel like it could have communicated anything differently, done
anything differently to address this challenge?  Not only Republicans,
but even some Democrats have been concerned about some of the
messaging. 

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say there’s no question — we’ve recognized
that this is a challenging issue, and we knew that it would be when the
President changed the policies of the former administration when he came
into office. 

And, obviously, welcoming in or ensuring that we had the capacity and we
were using resources to treat children humanely and ensure they’re safe
is a change in the last administration’s policy that was going to
dissatisfy some who are supporters of the last administration, but not
satisfy enough — as you alluded to in your question, some who think we
should wel- — be welcoming many more across our borders.

So, it certainly is an issue — as you know, you’ve covered this quite
closely — where we recognized we were never going to satisfy everyone. 
And what the President’s objective has been is to, you know, focus on
the unaccompanied children, those who had been ripped from their
parents’ arms, those who were being asked to take a treacherous journey
back, ensure we could take steps there. 

He also wants to push for comprehensive immigration reform, providing a
pathway to citizenship, ensuring we’re investing in addressing the root
causes in these countries.  That’s something he announced on day one of
his presidency.

So, we are well aware, and there was some reporting this morning, that
this was an issue that some supporters of the former President and some
Republicans in Congress, apparently, are licking their chops about how
to make children a political issue.  We don’t see it that way, and we
felt this was the moral, right step to take.  And we’re going to keep
working with immigration advocates, with groups out there to get this
bill passed; to get DREAMers — the DREAMers legislation passed.  That
continues to be a big objective for the President.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  Is the President aware of the shooting death of
Andrew Brown, a black man from Elizabeth City, North Carolina?  And does
he believe that body camera footage from the police officers involved in
the incident should be released?

MS. PSAKI:  He is aware of it.  I’ve not talked to him about his
particular view on that, and I believe he’d likely leave that up to law
enforcement and others to work out.

Q    Did you have another — does the White House have a comment on that
particular incident as well?

MS. PSAKI:  Obviously, they’re — the loss of life is a tragedy.  And,
obviously, we’re thinking of the family members and the community who
has los- — who’ve lost another — who have lost a loved one.  There’ll be
a — an investigation into this — into this shooting — or into this
death, and we will look for the outcome of that.

Q    Okay.  On infrastructure, you had noted that the President will
travel next week to Georgia —

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    — immediately after his “joint address,” I guess, is what we’re
calling it this year.  His joint address to Congress.

MS. PSAKI:  It’s always the joint address in the first year of a
presidency.

Q    Yes.

MS. PSAKI:  A little history note.  Yeah.

Q    After his joint address, do you have any other travel that you can
preview for us, even if you’re — it’s just to say how frequently you
expect the President and the Vice President to be traveling to sell this
infrastructure package, especially now that all adult Americans are
eligible for the vaccine?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, again, the President will travel on Thursday, as well
as Friday.  I expect he’ll have some additional travel in the weeks
ahead of that.  You can also anticipate the Vice President, the First
Lady, the Second Gentleman will be out traveling in the weeks after the
joint address.  Certainly, they’ll be talking about the Jobs Plan, as
well as the American Families Plan that the President will lay out in
detail at his joint address. 

But I don’t have a prediction in terms of how many days a week.  It
really depends.  We plan week by week, and what is needed and where we —
and we balance, of course, with needs at the White House.

Q    And two quick questions about Republicans.  You also had said that
the President would be meeting with bipartisan groups of lawmakers to
talk about his infrastructure package after that.  Do you have any
Republican senators that the President plans to meet?  Maybe a summit
that he plans to have (inaudible)?

MS. PSAKI:  Aside from the meetings he had last week?

Q    Moving forward.  He’s about to release his second infrastructure
package.

MS. PSAKI:  It’s not an infrastructure package.  It’s a Families Plan
focused on childcare and helping ease the burden on families — so the
American Families Plan.

I expect he will, of course, wel- — probably invite in bipartisan
members as a continuing conversation about the counterproposal on the
American Jobs Plan, and certainly anticipate he’ll have more members of
Congress in, in a bipartisan manner, in future weeks.

Next week, you kind of have a sense of what the week looks like. 
Right?  I mean, he’s going to be preparing for the joint address.  He’ll
make some remarks.  He’s going to travel two days, so you can anticipate
it would be after that.

Q    So, the context of the question is that there are Republican
senators, such as Marco Rubio or Mike Lee, who have said in the past
that they are supportive of things like the Child Tax Credit, and maybe
even extending it, but they don’t want to see things that they, in their
view, see as welfare assistance or permanent — permanent entitlements,
such as, you know, a federal paid leave law or a Child Tax Credit
extension.

So, does the White House see some sort of bridge that they can — sorry —
can they — how does the White House think that they can bridge that
divide between the Republicans who are supportive of this generally but
don’t want to see permanent entitlements, in their view?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say, first — and someone you didn’t mention,
Senator Romney, has also proposed his own Child Tax Credit Plan.  And
you mentioned a couple of others who have spoken in support of
extensions of the Child Tax Credit in different versions. 

We see that as an opportunity to discuss, an opportunity to seek
bipartisan support on a tax credit that we think would be beneficial to
families across the country, children, getting women back in the
workforce. 

And so I expect the President will certainly have a range of
conversations, and he’ll continue to have members into the Oval Office.

Q    Okay, thanks.

MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead.  Oh, go ahead.  Sorry, it’s a little — I can be
more clear.  Go ahead, Emilie. 

Q    No problem.  Thank you so much.  So lawmakers from across New
England are pushing for funding for a highspeed rail line between New
York City and Boston in the infrastructure package.  I was wondering if
President Biden is supportive of this idea and how does he envision his
infrastructure plans will spur the development of highspeed rail in the
U.S.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, it will certainly be a part of it.  And when Secretary
Buttigieg was here, he talked about this a little bit.  And part of the
conversation that members of Congress are having — or we’re having with
members of Congress — is what the composition of grants are. 

There are some grants that will be specific to individual projects. 
There are some that will be competitive.  There will — there will likely
be some that are funding that goes to states.  That’s how transportation
funding has worked in the past, and we expect it to be a combination. 

So, that will be part of the discussions that are happening moving —
moving forward.  I have no question, as a person who grew up in New
England, that there will be many advocates for that from the New England
delegations.  And — but we’re not quite at that point.  That’s — that’s
a part of the nitty-gritty decision making and discussions that are
happening now.

Q    Can I just clarify, though, as a huge rail supporter, can you — can
you clarify whether his — it is his goal that this infrastructure
package will either advance or start a new highspeed rail line in the
U.S.?  There’s only one under construction now.

MS. PSAKI:  Certainly, highspeed rail is part of an option of
investment.  And as the President — as you know, as you alluded to — the
President is a big fan of Amtrak and railways himself, but we have to
work through with Congress what the different mechanisms are for
funding; where we fund the projects: Are they through states or are they
through different grants?  And so that’s part of the discussion and the
nitty-gritty negotiation happening in the coming weeks.

Q    Thank you.  And just on behalf of two colleagues who couldn’t be
here.  Does the President plan to visit Ireland when he is making his
trip to the UK in June?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I announced the confirmed parts of his trip at this
point in time.  I don’t have any additional stops to add, but the trip
is two months away — a month away?  Six weeks away?  It’s all running
together.  And if we have more trips or components of the trip to
announce, we will do that. But there’s not a currently — a planned
Ireland stop on this trip.

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Jen.  The administration has given itself until — I have
a question about refugee admission.

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.

Q    The administration has given itself until May 15th to decide
whether it’s going to revise upwards its cap of 15,000 refugee
admissions between now and September 30.  What would be the reason for
not going all the way up to the cap that the administration communicated
already to Congress of 62,500?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, we have every intention of providing of — the
President has every intention of providing an updated number that will
be significantly higher than the number from last week.  Because the
intention he was trying to convey last week — or we were all trying to
convey — was that we were resuming flights and that we were overturning
the policy of preventing individuals, refugees from applying from parts
of the Middle East and parts of Africa.  But I’m not going to get ahead
of the process.  We’re assessing what’s possible.  We’re assessing that
through our policy and legal process, and we’ll definitely have an
update of an increased number in advance of May 15th.

Q    But, given that that number — 62,500 — was already communicated to
Congress earlier this year and as a cap limit — it’s not a commitment to
bringing that many people — why not just go right up to that cap and
that limit?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I’m — I am certain we will take that into
consideration.  You’re right, in that this cap is historically
aspirational.  If you look back at history, most people don’t — most
administrations don’t actually meet the cap.  But it is sending a
message to the world about the fact that we are a country that welcomes
in refugees, that we want to get our systems and our muscles working in
our refugee processing systems both in the country and around the
world. 

There were some limitations this year that were unique to this year — in
part because of COVID, in part because of the fact that the systems were
decimated under the last administration — and we just have to take a
look at all of that. 

But I think it’s an important point you touched on, that — I’d highlight
that oftentimes this is an aspirational goal, and one that we are just
trying to reach to send a message to the world about who we are as a
country.

Q    Does the Biden administration see increasing the number of refugees
admitted each year as a part — a long-term solution to helping alleviate
the pressure on the border of people who come to United States illegally
because they don’t have other legal avenues. 

Does the Biden administration see increasing the refugee — the number of
people allowed in the refugee program as a long-term solution to the
number — to resolving the pressure on the border?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t think we see it through the same prism exactly like
that.  It’s an interesting question.  The President’s cap — or the
President’s objective has always been consistently, from February
through last week, welcoming in 125,000 by the end of next fiscal year.

So really, what we’re talking about here is what the goal — what the cap
is for this fiscal year.  And as I mentioned, we’ve been dealing with a
few challenges.  But we’re assessing that; we will have an increased
number very soon.

But, as you know, a lot of these refugees are not coming — you know,
they’re coming from all around the world.  They’re coming from Africa. 
They’re coming from the Middle East.  They’re coming from many parts of
the world.

And so, while it’s all related, because it’s — it’s representing who we
are as a country, and welcoming in people who are freeing \[fleeing\]
persecution, freeing \[fleeing\] challenging circumstances, I don’t
think he sees it exactly through that prism.

Q    Do you have an update on the number of refugees that have been
admitted into United States under the Biden administration?

MS. PSAKI:  Over the last week or so, or over the last few weeks?  I
think we do have numbers.  I’m happy to get those to you after the
briefing.  We’ve seen — because of flights resuming, we’ve seen, you
know, an increase even just over the last week.

Go ahead.

Q    Just going back to the trip to Europe: The statement today
mentioned a bilateral meeting with Boris Johnson.  Do you know any of
the priorities that will be discussed at that meeting? 

And just relatedly, a couple of years ago, President Biden — before he
was President, obviously — said he thinks Boris Johnson is the “physical
and emotional clone of Donald Trump,” but does he still hold that view?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have anything yet to preview for you about the
agenda.  A lot of it will be dependent on what the world looks like at
that moment in time.  But there are a range of issues we, of course,
discuss with our partners in the UK that I expect will be on the
agenda. 

So, as we get closer, we’ll have more to say.  And of course, the
President is meeting with him as a fellow global leader in the global
community, and it certainly sends a message about the special
relationship we have with the United Kingdom that this is his first
trip.

Q    And also the NATO Summit: President Trump always liked to claim
that he was successful in getting NATO members to pay more.  Does this
administration think President Trump deserves some credit for that, and
are there elements of his approach that this administration will
continue?

MS. PSAKI:  I know he thought he invented that.  But having worked in
the Obama administration, I can say that the objective has always been
encouraging members of NATO to pay more, pushing members of NATO to pay
more, and that’s consistently been the U.S. policy for some time.

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Jen.  A follow-up on David’s question on a trip to the
UK.  Would President Biden like to meet the Queen?

MS. PSAKI:  Would he like to meet the Queen?  We’re still — who wouldn’t
want to meet the Queen?  (Laughter.)  Don’t you?

Q    Is there a plan for that?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, we’re still finalizing what the details are of the
trip.  So, I certainly understand the interest.  I’m interested as well,
myself, and we will have more to share with all of you as the final
details are put together.

Q    Okay.  And now on the Climate Summit: President Biden just said
that the announcements from Brazil were encouraging.  My question: Was
it enough?  And does it change the administration perspective about a
possible bilateral climate deal with Brazil or possible assistance to
Brazil related to the Amazon?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, let me say that reaching carbon neutrality by
2050, 10 years earlier than previously committed and with no
preconditions, as President Bolsonaro announced, and his commitment to
double funds available for enforcement are crucial steps to eliminate —
toward eliminating illegal deforestation by 2030. 

And so, we were pleased that he recognized the important role of the —
and we were also pleased he recognized the important role of the private
sector in helping us find solutions.

We agree with his emphasis on the necessary involvement of Indigenous
People and traditional communities in protecting — protecting standing
forests and biodiversity, and with his recognition of the important role
of the private sector in helping us find solutions.

We look forward to continuing to work with Brazil, to continuing the
dialogue.  And we feel that his announcement yesterday was a good step
forward.

Q    So isn’t that — does it change this perspective about a possible
sending assistance?  Bolsonaro also asked for assistance to protect the
Amazon.  So —

MS. PSAKI:  I have nothing to preview in terms of that, but certainly
his announcements and pronouncements were received positively here.  I
expect there’ll be a great deal of follow up, lots of discussions from
our climate envoy and others who are leading this effort from the
administration. 

Q    So would now be a good time to call the Brazilian President — to
have a call between the two Presidents?

MS. PSAKI:  For a — I don’t have any calls to preview for you.  There’s
a lot of — there are a number of officials, including our special envoy,
who are leading the efforts for a follow-up from the summit.  It
certainly is significant that we had 40 global leaders, some of the
world’s biggest economies and emitters, here over the last two days —
well, virtually here — discussing this, and there’ll be a great deal of
follow-up from here.

Q    Jen, one more.  So today, the discussions at the Summit were around
clean energy, a lot of discussions about solar energy.  Would President
Biden consider bringing back the solar panels here in the White House?

MS. PSAKI:  At the White House? 

Q    Yes.

MS. PSAKI:  Oh, that’s a good question.  I will have to check with our —
probably the GSA?  I will have to see who makes that determination.  But
we are pro-solar panel around here, so I will see where things stand on
that front.

Q    A last one.  We didn’t hear much about the connection between
epidemics and the deforestation during this summit.  And science shows
that about 70 percent of epidemics starts with deforestation.  So what
is the Biden administration doing to reduce the risk of future pandemics
emerging from areas that experience high deforestation like the Amazon?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, certainly addressing deforestation is not just a
climate issue.  It’s a big climate issue; it’s also a health issue. 
And, you know, we are encouraged again, by the announcements made by the
President yesterday, and we will continue to work with a range of
countries around the world and through international forum to — to
ensure the world is preparing for preventing the next pandemic.

Q    There are discussions here in Washington about creating a global
fund for these specific points.  So is — would the White House support a
Global Conservation Fund to stop deforestation in order to prevent
future pandemics?

MS. PSAKI:  Again, there’ll be ongoing discussions with the Brazilians,
with many of the leaders who attended yesterday — at the level of our
climate envoy and others who are running point on this.  And I’m certain
there are a range of issues that will be brought up, but I don’t have
anything to get ahead of on that. 

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  Does the President still plan to issue a statement on
Armenian victims tomorrow?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have anything to predict.  I expect he will have a
statement, but — marking the day, but I don’t have anything to confirm
for you or predict about the content.

Q    And another question.  The Israelis are sending a high-level
delegation here to Washington next week to discuss the administration’s
efforts to rejoin the nuclear deal and also to stress their objection to
— to (inaudible).  How does the White House view this visit?  And is it
likely to change the — this administration’s position in rejoining the
nuclear deal?

MS. PSAKI:  No, but I will say that, one, there are ongoing discussions
— or negotiations, I should say, that are happening now — they’re
indirect, of course — on the potential for a diplomatic path forward on
the new — on a nuclear deal. 

While we knew they would be challenging, we’re encouraged that there are
still conversations between all parties and that they are still —
they’re still happening. 

As it relates to Israel, we have kept them abreast as a key partner of
these discussions — or of our intentions, and we will continue to do
that on any future visits.

Okay.  Oh, I have one ques- — oh, hello.  As we’ve been doing in our
tradition, every Friday, we welcome in someone who can’t be here
physically with us in the briefing room. 

So this is Natasha Lindstrom of the Pittsburgh Tribune-Review.  And I
understand — not to embarrass you, Natasha, but today is your birthday? 
Is today your birthday?

Oh, we can’t hear you.  Uh-oh. 

Q    I got it.  Sorry.  It is my birthday today, so it’s a neat
opportunity to — to be here.  Thank you for having me.  I appreciate it.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, happy birthday.  Thanks for spending a few minutes
with us here today.

So how can we help you — or what questions do you have for me?  I was
going to say “to the press corps” —

Q    Yeah.

MS. PSAKI: — but that’s not actually how this works.  But go ahead. 
(Laughter.)  That would be great.

Q    So the pandemic shined a spotlight on many longstanding problems
plaguing nursing homes across Western Pennsylvania and nationwide,
including facilities that have gone understaffed and demonstrate a
history of poor infection control and ineffective management long before
COVID. 

There’s also been the trend of historically poor-performing operators
owned by complex webs of private-equity investors and shell companies
increasingly snapping up cash-strapped facilities across our state and
around the country.  The setup can make it hard to figure out who’s in
charge and where the money is going.  It also can allow owners to shirk
accountability should anything go wrong.  And it makes it tough to
follow the money, even though the majority of the budgets are federal
taxpayer dollars via Medicare and Medicaid payments.

Legislation, in various forms, to improve nursing home quality and
transparency has been — has bipartisan support, including bills put out
by the likes of Pennsylvania Senators Bob Casey and Pat Toomey, but much
of it has stalled for years.

Now, during the pandemic, we have seen an increase in scrutiny by the
likes of HHS and CMS.  In one of the more egregious cases, a federal
grand jury investigation is underway, linked to some of the operators
here in Allegheny and Beaver Counties in our region. 

Can you elaborate on what concrete actions are being taken or will be
taken moving forward on regulatory, legislative, investigative, or other
fronts to ensure accountability and transparency in the long-term care
sector?  How can we make sure the federal government, states, and
owner-operators are all doing what they should be doing to improve the
level of care, even beyond COVID?

MS. PSAKI:  Great.  Well, thank you, Natasha.  And I think there’s no
question that — from the President’s standpoint, that the impact on
seniors — what we’ve seen happen in facilities around the country —
especially in the early days of the pandemic when there clearly weren’t
the preparations in place, when there weren’t the systems in place, when
loved ones couldn’t even engage with or reach their members who were
staying in these senior care facilities — it exposed what a problem we
have on our hands. 

As you noted, there’s legislation that’s in Congress.  And certainly, we
will look forward to taking a look at that more closely.  And I expect
as we are getting to the stage where we — the pandemic is hopefully
under control — that’s our objective in the coming months: that we will
all take a look at and reflect on what changes should be made for the
future to be better prepared, to take better care of our seniors, to
take better care of our communities in the future.

In terms of regulatory actions, I just can’t — I’m not in a position to
get ahead of that.  I’m happy to see if there’s anything underway that
we would be able to speak to from here.  But I think you have clearly
identified a challenging issue that’s not only a problem in Pittsburgh,
in Western Pennsylvania, and parts of Pennsylvania, but we’re seeing in
states across the country as well.

Q    There’s a lot of blame game that gets thrown around, you know, so
that the states blames the owner-operators.  Owner-operators say they
don’t have enough resources.  The feds blame the state.  Do you — whose
responsibility is it to really make sure meaningful change happens even
beyond the pandemic?  Because a lot of these problems that were
exacerbated by the pandemic but have existed for many years — especially
with the lack of transparency element —

MS. PSAKI:  You’re right.  I mean, it’s really — it’s really both.  It’s
not just one or the other.  I mean, there are responsibilities that the
state has because there’s certain funding that goes to the state to
deploy in a lot of these areas. 

But there’s also responsibilities of the federal government to look
across at different states and see these challenges that are happening,
what we can do better by our seniors, what we can do better for the
standard of care in these caregiving facilities.  And, you know, I think
it’s really a partnership and both moving forward.

Well, thank you so much.  Happy birthday.  I hope you have a wonderful
celebration this weekend, and thanks again for joining us.

Great.  Well, thank you, everyone.  As I promised yesterday — I promised
snacks.  I did not bring them in here, but my mother-in-law made
homemade chocolate chip cookies for you guys.  (Laughter.)  So, there’s
one for each of you in here.  We will do it in a COVID-safe way.

But thanks, everyone, and have a great weekend.

12:46 P.M. EDT
