---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-04-09'
modified_time: 2021-04-09 17:09:52-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/04/09/remarks-by-president-biden-on-the-weekly-economic-briefing/
published_time: 2021-04-09 17:30:00-04:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on the Weekly Economic\_Briefing"
---
 
Oval Office

2:52 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, first of all, Jill and I, and the entire
administration, send our condolences to Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II
on the loss of Prince Philip.  He was a heck of a guy. 

He — you know, he was — in his lifetime of service to the United Kingdom
and the whole Commonwealth was visible to everybody for a long, long
time, and his bravery serving in World War II, as well as his being a
champion of the environment, as well as the charity — the charitable
things he set up.

So we really do express our condolences for an extraordinary life that
was led by the Prince.  And I think he’s going to be missed,
particularly in the United Kingdom.  Ninety-nine years old and he never
slowed down at all, and — which I admire the devil out of.

And today, we’re meeting on — we’re having an economic briefing here
with the team.  I sent to Congress my funding priorities for the
appropriations process, including two key public health initiatives that
I’m pushing.

The first is — like DARPA in the Defense Department, which was designed
to develop, and has developed, breakthroughs to protect us and enhance
our physical safety — I’m proposing a $6.5 billion appropriation for
what we call “ARPA-H,” which is focused on going to — focused on health
issues. 

This is a pioneering breakthrough that we hope we can detect and treat
and prevent diseases like Alzheimer’s and diabetes, and give us a chance
to end cancer as we know it, because we’ll focus exclusively on those
items.

And secondly, I’m proposing a historic funding increase of 50 percent up
to — of $4 billion to end the opioid crisis, which still ravages the
country and has taken so many lives over the last two years; resources
both to the states and to Tribes for treatment, as well as prevention. 

That also includes the single-largest funding increase ever for Title I
schools — schools for disadvantaged schools — to lift up the millions of
children in low-income families.  And it’ll put them in a position where
all the data is — we’ve –I’ve talked a lot about this — the data shows
that it puts a child from a household that is a lower-income household
in a position, if they start school — not daycare, but school — at three
and four years old, there’s overwhelming evidence that they are able to
compete all the way through high school and beyond. 

And so it doubles the funding as well for — for VAWA services, including
resources to end the rape kit backlog.  We’ve been working on this for a
long, long time, and we still have a backlog on the rape kit.  And — and
the point is: A significant number of women who have been raped — and
the person has not been found or convicted is because they’re sitting in
jail.  The average rapist rapes about six times. 

And so, out there, we’re — we want to make sure we go through this
backlog and find out, to bring some — some certitude to — for the woman
who is saying, “No, no, it was true.  That’s the man.  He did it.”  And
it changes the whole perspective — all the hearings we held on that. 

And also there — it makes major investments in the fight against climate
change. 

And there’s issues that are personal to millions of Americans in the
area of VAWA, because I get that asked, and we get spoken to by everyone
from mayors and governors, local officials of both parties. 

So I look forward to working with Congress to advance these and other
priorities.  I think we’re going to be able to get — I’m hoping we will
have some bipartisan support across the board.  I’ve already spoken to
some of my Republican colleagues about dealing with the infrastructure
legislation we have up there, as well as other budget items.  So we’re
going to work on seeing if we can get some bipartisan support across the
board here. 

But that’s what we’re about to do now.  We’re going to talk about our
economic priorities, and we’ll get the brief from the team here.  But
thank you all for coming.

2:56 P.M. EDT
