---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-04-13'
modified_time: 2021-04-13 16:46:35-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/04/13/remarks-by-president-biden-before-meeting-with-members-of-the-congressional-black-caucus/
published_time: 2021-04-13 17:00:00-04:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden Before Meeting with Members of the Congressional\
  \ Black\_Caucus"
---
 
Oval Office

2:35 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, look, it’s an honor to be with all of you today,
and I — I know it’s been a pretty painful week, you know, with — with
the losses we’ve had.  You know, a good friend, Alcee Hastings, which I
knew a long, long time.  And to lose him is losing a piece of the –- I
don’t know what — just losing a piece of something.

And also, you know, with Daunte Wright in Minnesota — that God-awful
shooting resulting in his death, and — and in the midst of an ongoing
trial over the killing of George Floyd.  And Lord only knows what’s
happened based on what the verdict will or will not be there.

And — but we’re in the business, all of us meeting today, to deliver
some real change. 

When we took office — I had a talk with Jim at length about this — every
single aspect of — I signed the executive order — every single aspect of
our government, including every agency, has, as a primary focus, dealing
with equity.  Not a joke.  From the beginning, we talked at length about
it, Jim.

And not only is — but we also have an awful lot of things we have to
deal with, not — when it — when it comes to police, when it comes to
advancing equality, economic opportunity.

Cedric always says the thing that he — would drive him crazy is that
everybody, when we want to talk about equity in the Black community,
they talk about prisons.  Well, that’s part of it, man, but that’s not —
it’s about income.  It’s about being able to earn a living.  It’s about
being able to be in a position where you have economic opportunity. 

And so I look forward to discussing all these priorities, the C- — the
CBC priorities and the goals you have for — for the community, but quite
frankly, for — the goals you have for the community are good for every
community — for every community. 

And I’d like to take some — spend some time in the American Jobs Act,
which I think some of you actually helped me put that together with the
ideas you gave me early on.  And I think we can make significant,
significant changes. 

We — in the last little bit of legislation you helped me pass, we re- —
we reduced child poverty, and we reduced poverty in Black communities
significantly, just by that act alone. 

One of my objectives there is — overall objective is to make those
changes permanent.  You’ve been leading that one for a long time, pal. 

And so — anyway, we’ve got a lot to talk about.  And I’m looking forward
to having this meeting with the Congressional Black Caucus.  And they —
I think we can get a lot done.

So, thank you all for joining us. 

Q    Mr. President, a question about the Johnson & Johnson vaccine.

Q    Mr. President, what is the actual hope that people should have that
there’ll be a change in the way that African Americans interact with
police in this country during the Biden era?  What can you deliver on,
sir?

THE PRESIDENT:  A lot.  And I’ll tell you later.  Let’s go.

Q    Any response to the Johnson & Johnson vaccine?

THE PRESIDENT:  My message to the American people on the vaccine is — I
told you all: I made sure we have 600 million doses of the MR- — not of
either Johnson & Johnson and/or AstraZeneca.  So there’s enough vaccine
that is basically 100 percent unquestionable for every single, solitary
American. 

Thank you.

2:39 P.M. EDT
