---
category: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-04-26'
modified_time: 2021-04-26 21:24:19-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/04/26/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-and-president-giammattei-of-the-republic-of-guatemala-before-virtual-bilateral-meeting/
published_time: 2021-04-26 21:24:18-04:00
title: Remarks by Vice President Harris and President Giammattei of the Republic of
  Guatemala Before Virtual Bilateral Meeting
---
 
Via Teleconference  
Vice President’s Ceremonial Office  

4:02 P.M. EDT  
  
VICE PRESIDENT HARRIS:  But, it is my honor to be with you, Mr.
President.   
  
PRESIDENT GIAMMATTEI:  It is my honor to meet you by Zoom.  (Laughs.)  
  
     VICE PRESIDENT HARRIS:  Yes, by Zoom, and soon in person.    
  
     But I do want you to know that I value the partnership between our
countries and our people, and I look forward to working together to
strengthen our ties around our common interests.   
  
     When we last spoke by telephone a few weeks ago, we discussed our
shared commitment to expanding opportunities in Guatemala and throughout
the region.  
  
And as you of course know, the people of Guatemala have been suffering
greatly because of the recent hurricanes, the persistent drought, and,
of course, the damage from COVID-19.   
  
And as we have discussed, these are the acute factors that, in many
ways, are causing people to leave their homes despite the fact that they
would probably prefer to stay.  
  
There are also longstanding issues that are often called the “root
causes” of immigration.  We are looking at the issue of poverty and the
lack, therefore, of economic opportunities; the issue of extreme weather
conditions and the lack of climate adaptation; as well as corruption and
the lack of good governance; and violence against women, Indigenous
people, LGBTQ people, and Afro-descendants.  
  
And we want to work with you to address both the acute causes as well as
the root causes in a way that will bring hope to the people of Guatemala
that there will be an opportunity for them if they stay at home.     
  
Part of the spirit behind out work is that, of course, the Western
Hemisphere is our collective home, and the people in it and our
neighbors — including the people of Guatemala — are nearby and we have a
responsibility, therefore, to engage.  
  
The United States plans to increase relief to the region; strengthen our
cooperation to manage migration in an effective, secure, and humane
manner.   
  
And in addition to our bilateral work and our multilateral efforts, the
United States is building a comprehensive strategy with international
institutions, with allies around the globe, with foundations here in the
United States, and the private sector as well as community
organizations.  
  
In addition: Tomorrow, I will meet with Guatemalan community leaders,
and I am eager to hear their thoughts.  The people of the region, of
course, must be at the center of everything we do.  
  
I believe that the work, in order to be successful, will require
everyone’s participation.  And I do believe, also, it will require
political will and hard work to accomplish our goals.  But I am
confident that we can make progress and create a sense of hope for the
future.    
  
And, Mr. President, again, I am honored to meet with you.  I look
forward to traveling to Guatemala and meeting with you in person.  And
currently, our — our plan is to come there in the month of June.  
  
Thank you.    
  
PRESIDENT GIAMMATTEI:  (As interpreted.)  First of all, thank you very
much, Madam Vice President.   
  
If for this meeting where we shall (inaudible) multiple (inaudible)
interests to (inaudible) nations.    
  
One thing that I fully agree with you — what we just said — is creating
hope.  Creating hope through the consolidation of walls of prosperity
where people can find here opportunities to move ahead and, therefore,
not need to go abroad to the United States is the road that should be
our objective.  
  
You may rest assured, Madam Vice President, that the Guatemalan governor
\[government\] wishes to be your partners in order to address the common
goals to eradicate not only poverty, but the causes of so many evils
that afflict us.  
  
When I hear you speak of placing human beings at the center of things, I
can only congratulate myself and you for adopting such a position.  
  
Because we seem to have forgotten that we need to fight to preserve the
life of all members of our society — all members.  The stability of all
members of a country without regard to ethnic origin or anything else of
that nature, but all be able to live in conditions of (inaudible).  
  
I was so happy to be able to speak to you, and I’m looking forward to
your coming in June.  But from here to June, I believe that we should
build a roadmap between government and government so that we can reach
agreements so that we can then work on — in this very hard road that we
have ahead of us to ensure peace, progress, and development.  And also,
so that we can secure that cooperations that we need from you, in terms
of matters that need strengthening.    
  
So, with that, welcome, Madam Vice President.    
  
VICE PRESIDENT HARRIS:  Muchas gracias.  Thank you very much.    
  
4:12 P.M. EDT
