---
category: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-04-20'
modified_time: 2021-04-20 15:50:16-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/04/20/remarks-by-president-biden-before-meeting-with-leadership-of-the-congressional-hispanic-caucus/
published_time: 2021-04-20 15:50:15-04:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden Before Meeting with Leadership of the Congressional\
  \ Hispanic\_Caucus"
---
 
Oval Office

11:43 A.M. EDT  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Thanks for taking the time to come in.  We’re having a
very important meeting.  There’s a lot on our agenda from the CHC.  We
got a lot to talk about.   
  
Representatives from the House and the Senate — and I want to express my
gratitude to the Caucus for being willing to come down.  We got a whole
range of issues to discuss.  And, you know, I want to make sure that —
from the American Rescue Plan, to COVID — I told the Doc that I — if I
hadn’t had my shot already, I’d ask him to give me one because he’s been
taking care of business.   
  
But the America — in our view, and I mean it sincerely — cannot succeed
if it’s — unless Hispanic families succeed.  You know, we talk about — I
know I’m tired of hearing me say it for a year and a half — we talk
about the idea that — with the last administration’s failure to invest
or being even — be anywhere remotely positive.  
  
But I — the point I keep making, to remind people — and people
understand it, and the recent polling nationwide shows they understand
it — is that 24 out of every 100 kids in grade school right now is
Latino or Hispanic.  The idea that we’re not going to invest in what
will be roughly 25 percent of the population by the time these kids are
in our positions, it’s just absolutely — it makes no sense.  And that’s
what we’re all about.   
  
We’re going to talk about everything today, my guess is, from
immigration to the — my Jobs Plan and what — what — how it worked for
you and how it didn’t, what you think we should be doing.   
  
We’re also creating a whole lot of job opportunities in neighborhoods,
because for most of the — where I come from and all of you come from —
is that it gets down to neighborhoods.  It gets down to neighborhoods —
whether that grocery store is open, whether that local bank is there,
whether the — whether or not you have a barber shop, a beauty shop.  It
all — all matters.  It matters about people and their communities and
how they belong.   
  
So we’re going to spend some time pushing forward — I’m going to spend
some time trying to sell you all on what I think you’re sold on with the
Jobs bill and the aspects of the Jobs bill.  And I want to talk a little
strategy with you all as well, if that’s okay.  If that’s all right with
you, Mr. Chairman.  
  
SENATOR MENENDEZ:  (Inaudible), Mr. President.  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  All right.  The Chairman is now Chairman of the
committee that I enjoyed more than anything I did in my whole career;
he’s Chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee.  
  
So, the Vice President and I are looking forward to this meeting, and
we’re going to try to get a lot done.  And I think it’s always great
when a meeting starts off in a meeting with a bunch of friends.   
  
So, thank you all for being here.  That’s what we’re going to be talking
about today.  Thank you.  
  
Q    President Biden, you spoke to George Floyd’s family; what was your
message?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  I know, Geor- — I’m just going to answer that one
question because George is — I’ve come to know George’s family not just
in passing — I’ve spent time with them.  I spent time with his little
daughter, Gianna — you should see this beautiful child; and his brother
— both brothers, as a matter of fact.  
  
And so I can only imagine the pressure and anxiety they’re feeling.  And
so I waited until the jury was sequestered, and — and I called.  And as
— I wasn’t going to say anything about it, but Philonise said today on
television, and he accurately said, it was a private conversation
because Joe understands what it’s like to go through loss.  
  
And they’re a good family.  And they’re calling for peace and
tranquility no matter what that verdict is.  I’m praying the verdict is
the right verdict, which is — I think it’s overwhelming, in my view. I
wouldn’t say that unless the jury was sequestered now and not hearing me
say that.   
  
But — so, we just talked a little.  I wanted to know how they were
doing, just personally.  And we talked about personal things.  
  
Thank you very much for coming in.  
  
11:47 A.M. EDT
