---
category: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-04-16'
modified_time: 2021-04-16 19:59:02-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/04/16/remarks-by-president-biden-and-prime-minister-suga-of-japan-at-press-conference/
published_time: 2021-04-16 20:15:00-04:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden and Prime Minister Suga of Japan at Press\_Conference"
---
 
5:05 P.M. EDT  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Well, good afternoon.  The Prime Minister has brought
the sun out, so he can do about anything.  
  
Mr. Prime Minister, thank you for being here.  It’s been my pleasure to
welcome Prime Minister Suga to the White House.  This is our first
in-person meeting here — the first head of state that I’ve asked in my
administration to come to the White House.   
  
Yoshi, thank you for making the long trip to Washington.  We’ve already
met several times virtually on — at a G7 meeting and a Quad Leader
Summit, but I greatly appreciate the chance to spend time with you in
person and to make our — exchange our ideas face to face.  There’s no
substitute for face-to-face discussions.  
  
We are still talking — taking COVID precautions, being careful.  But our
commitment to meet in person is indicative of the importance and the
value we both place on this relationship between Japan and the United
States — this partnership.   
  
We had a very productive discussion today.  When nations as close as
ours get together, we always look for operations and opportunities to do
more, and today was no exception.   
  
So, Yoshi, you’ll probably be seeing a lot more of me in the future. 
And today, Prime Minister Suga and I affirmed our ironclad support for
U.S.-Japanese alliance and for our shared security.   
  
We committed to working together to take on the challenges from China
and on issues like the East China Sea, the South China Sea, as well as
North Korea, to ensure a future of a free and open Indo-Pacific.  
  
Japan and the United States are two strong democracies in the region,
and we’re committed — we’re committed to defending and advancing our
shared values, including human rights and the rule of law.   
  
We’re going to work together to prove that democracies can still compete
and win in the 21st century.  We can deliver for our people, and in the
face of a rapidly changing world.   
  
So today, we’re announcing a new Competitive
and <s>Reliance </s>\[Resilience\] partnership — CORE — between Japan
and the United States that will enhance our ability — enhance our
ability to meet the pressing challenges of our time — together meet
those challenges.   
  
Top of our agenda is, of course, getting the pandemic under control and
helping our friends and neighbors throughout the Indo-Pacific region to
recover.   
  
Earlier this year, we — together with India and Australia — launched the
landmark Quad Vaccine Partnership to expand the manufacturing of
COVID-19 vaccines and assist countries throughout the region with
vaccination efforts.  And we have agreed to enhance our support for
global vaccination efforts through the ACT Accelerator and COVID
facility.   
  
We’re also going to do more beyond this pandemic to advance longer-term
goals for health security, reform of the World Health Organization, and
establishing a new partnership — a new partnership on health security to
build better preparedness for the next pandemic, because there will be
others.  
  
Secondly, Japan and the United States are both deeply invested in
innovation and looking to the future.  That includes making sure we
invest in and protect the technologies that will maintain and sharpen
our competitive edge.  And those technologies are governed by shared
democratic norms that we both share — norms set by democracies, not by
autocracies.   
  
So we’re going to work together across a range of fields — from
promoting secure and reliable 5G networks; to increasing our cooperation
on supply chains for critical sectors like semiconductors; to driving
joint research in areas like AI, genomics, quantum computing, and much
more.   
  
Thirdly, our nations are committed to taking aggressive action to meet
the threats of climate change.  Next week, I’ll be hosting the Climate
Leaders Summit — which Prime Minister Suga also plans to attend,
thankfully — to rally key nations of the world to making ambitious
climate commitments in the lead up to the Glasgow summit later this
year.   
  
Japan and the United States are both committed to achieving net-zero
emissions by 2050, and we know to do that will require setting and
meeting our 2030 goals.  And we’ll work together to advance clean energy
technologies and help nations throughout the Indo-Pacific region,
especially developing countries, develop renewable energies and
decarbonize their economies.   
  
And finally, both Prime Minister Suga and I value the incredible
partnership that exists not just between our governments, but between
the Japanese people and the American peoples.   
  
Last month, we jointly marked the 10th-year anniversary of the
earthquake, tsunami, and nuclear disaster that cost so many lives in
Japan.   
  
I visited that area shortly after it happened.  In our private lunch,
the Vice President — the Pres- — the Prime Minister and I talked about,
when I was Vice President, visiting the families in the region to show
support of the United States.  We continue to mourn the loss of all
those folks and to honor the extraordinary joint effort between Japan
and the American people when the — in the wake of that tragedy, to
recover and to rebuild.  
  
And those personal bonds of friendship and constant — and connection,
they’re the ones that are going to keep this alliance strong and vibrant
for decades to come.   
  
And I’m especially proud that today we agreed to resume what we call —
what is called the “Mansfield Fellowship Program” to promote
people-to-people connections between our countries.  Before Mike
Mansfield — who was a beloved ambassador to Japan — became ambassador,
he was a mentor of mine when I came to the Senate after my wife and
daughter were killed, and he helped me along in ways I can’t even
explain in the United States Senate.  And I’m proud — I’m proud that
this legacy continues to be honored as part of the close, enduring
partnership between our nations.  
  
And, Yoshi, I know how proud you are of — the people of Japan are in —
you’ve got a Japanese boy coming over here, and guess what?  He won the
Masters.  He won the Masters.  He won the Green Jacket.  And Matsuyama
was the first Japanese player to take home that Green Jacket at the
Masters Tournament this week.  So let me say congratulations to Japan as
well on that feat.  
  
Mr. Prime Minister, thank you for making the trip.  I look forward to
all that Japan and United States will accomplish together in the coming
years.  It was a great honor having you as the first head of state in my
administration.  
  
The floor is yours.  
  
PRIME MINISTER SUGA:  (As interpreted.)  It is truly a pleasure to be
here in person visiting Washington, D.C.  I would like to thank
President Biden and Vice President Harris, who have welcomed me so
warmly.  I also wish to extend my gratitude to all the members of the
U.S. government who have worked to prepare for this occasion.   
  
The United States is Japan’s best friend.  Japan and the U.S. are allies
that share universal values, such as freedom, democracy, and human
rights.  Our alliance has served its role as the foundation of peace and
stability for the Indo-Pacific region and the world.   
  
In light of the current regional situation and the severe security
environment, the importance of our alliance has reached new heights. 
Based on such common recognition at today’s summit, we engaged in
far-reaching and candid exchange of views on each other’s political
principles, challenges faced in each of our nations, our common vision,
and other matters.   
  
President Biden and I reaffirmed the recognitions confirmed at the
Japan-U.S. two-plus-two held last month, and agreed to engage in
initiatives for the region based upon such recognitions.   
  
We also discussed the free and open Indo-Pacific.  We agreed that while
Japan and the U.S. will take the lead to promote the vision through
concrete efforts, we will also cooperate with other countries and
regions, including the ASEAN, Australia, and India.   
  
We also had serious talks on China’s influence over the peace and
prosperity of the Indo-Pacific and the world at large.  We agreed to
oppose any attempts to change the status quo by force or coercion in the
East and South China Seas, and intimidation of others in the region.   
  
At the same time, we agreed on the necessity for each of us to engage in
frank dialogue with China.  And, in so doing, to pursue stability of
international relations, while upholding universal values.   
  
On North Korea, we confirmed our commitment to the CVID of all weapons
of mass destruction and ballistic missiles of all ranges, and agreed to
demand North Korea to fulfill its obligations under Security Council
resolutions.  
  
On the issue of abduction, we reaffirmed that it is a grave human rights
issue, and that our two countries will work together to seek immediate
resolution by North Korea.  Encountering North Korea, and for the peace
and prosperity of the Indo-Pacific, both of us recognize that trilateral
cooperation, including the ROK, has never been as important as today,
and agreed to promote such collaboration.  
  
Noting that the regional security environment has become increasingly
severe, the deterrence and response capabilities of our alliance must be
strengthened.  I conveyed my resolve to reinforce Japan’s defense
capabilities while President Biden again demonstrated America’s
commitment to the defense of Japan, including the application of Article
5 of the Japan-U.S. Treaty of Mutual Cooperation and Security for the
Senkaku Islands.   
  
We also agree to accelerate the review underway between our two
countries on the specific means to strengthen our alliance.  At the same
time, from the perspective of mitigating the impact on local
communities, including, first and foremost, Okinawa, we agreed to
promote the realignment of the U.S. forces in Japan, including the
relocation of Air Station Futenma to Henoko, which is the only solution
to avoid its permanent use.  
  
In responding to the unprecedented crisis faced by the international
community, such as COVID-19 and climate change, Japan and the U.S. are
mutually indispensable partners.   
  
President Biden and I share the recognition that our two nations bear
significant responsibilities to lead multilateral initiatives toward the
resolution of such issues.   
  
In this context, we agree to respect international order based upon
multilateralism and the rule of law while exercising joint leadership to
build back better our global community.   
  
Based on such outcome of our meeting today, we are releasing the
“Japan-U.S. Joint Leaders statement: Global Partnership for a New Era,”
which will serve as the guiding post for our alliance in the times
ahead, which strongly demonstrates our solidarity towards the
realization of a free and open Indo-Pacific.  
  
From the perspective of our two nation’s leading efforts to build back
better, President Biden and I agreed on the Japan-U.S. core partnership,
and confirmed to promote cooperation in common priority areas, including
promotion of competitiveness and innovation in digital science and
technology, COVID-19 countermeasures, green growth, and climate
change.  
  
On competitiveness and innovation: Under the recognition that digital
economy and new technologies, in particular, will bring about social
transformation and huge economic opportunities, we have agreed that
Japan and the U.S. will work together on the promotion of R&D on various
areas, including digital area and others regarding response to COVID-19
from short-term responses to longer-term efforts, including their
preparations for future similar incidents.  
  
We will work on the promotion of multi-layered cooperations regarding
the overall supply of vaccines and the reinforcement of Japan-U.S.
public and private cooperation in the area of global health.  We
confirmed that cooperations between our governments will continue in
order to ensure equitable access to vaccines, including access by
developing countries, multilateral and regional cooperations will be
promoted.

On the matter of climate change, at the upcoming Climate Summit to be
hosted by the U.S. next week or at COP26 and beyond, we confirmed that
Japan and the U.S. will lead the global decarbonization in order to
further strengthen cooperation in areas such as the implementation of
the Paris Agreement, clean energy technologies, or decarbonization
transition of developing countries.   
  
I agreed with President Biden to launch climate partnership on ambition
decarbonization and clean energy.  Under these initiatives, I wish to
give impetus to concrete and comprehensive Japan-U.S. cooperations.  
  
I discussed the increase of discriminations or violences against Asian
people across the U.S. with President Biden and agreed that
discrimination by race cannot be permitted in any societies.  We agreed
on this regard.   
  
President Biden’s comment that discriminations and violences is cannot
be allowed and that he firmly opposes was extremely encouraging for me,
and I have renewed my confidence in American democracy once again.   
  
I told the President about my determination to realize the Tokyo Olympic
and Paralympic Games this summer as a symbol of a global unity. 
President Biden once again expressed his support for this
determination.   
  
Japan is listening to and learning from WHO and experts, doing
everything possible to contain infection and to realize safe and secure
Games.  From scientific and objective perspectives, we will do our
utmost in our preparation.  
  
Freedom, democracy, human rights, rule of law — as we firmly defend and
uphold these universal values that Japan and the U.S. share, I look
forward to the actual implementation of the outcomes of today’s
significant meeting and to realize a free and open Indo-Pacific by
further collaboration and deeper cooperation with Joe.  
  
I once again express my heartfelt gratitude for the kind invitation. 
Thank you.   
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Now we will each take a few questions, and I’ll begin
by recognizing the Associated Press.  Aamer, you have the first
question.  There you are.   
  
Q    Thank you, Mr. President.  And thank you, Mr. Prime Minister.  Mr.
President, in your last press conference, you said successful Presidents
prioritize and that you were focusing your agenda on one thing at a
time.   
  
And I’d like to just ask you: What would you say to many Americans who
voted for you about the legislative progress on gun control and police
reform having to wait while you pursue infrastructure, given that we
continue to see these incidents with mass shootings and also
police-involved shootings, including the incident that a lot of us saw
in Chicago most recently?  Do you feel any need to reprioritize your
agenda?  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  I’ve never not prioritized this.  No one has worked
harder to deal with the violence used by individuals using weapons than
I have.  I’m the only one ever to have passed an assault weapons ban. 
I’m the only one that ever got a 10-year ban on assault weapons and
clips of more than 10 bullets.   
  
Immediately upon us becoming in office, having an attorney general, I
asked him to put together the things I could do by executive order,
including dealing with new guns that can be made — you can buy in pieces
and put together, and other — and other initiatives.  
  
I strongly support — I strongly support the universal background checks,
which I continue to push.  The Congress has to step up and act.  The
Senate has to act.  
  
And I strongly support and continue — I’ve never stopped supporting the
ban on assault weapons and magazines that hold more than 10 — 10
bullets.   
  
It doesn’t mean that I can’t also be working at the same time on the
economy and on COVID.  But it’s not a question of my being able to set
the agenda in the Senate as to what they will move to first.  And so I
continue and I strongly, strongly urge my Republican friends in the
Congress who even refused to bring up the House-passed bill to bring it
up now.   
  
This has to end.  It’s a national embarrassment.  It is a national
embarrassment what’s going on.  And it’s not only these mass shootings
that are occurring.  Every single day — every single day, there’s a mass
shooting in this United — in the United States if you count all those
who are killed out on the streets of our cities and our rural areas. 
It’s a national embarrassment and must come to an end.   
  
And one last thing: The folks who own weapons, the folks who own guns,
they support universal background checks.  The majority of them think we
should not be selling assault weapons.  Who, in God’s name, needs a
weapon that can hold 100 rounds or 40 rounds or 20 rounds?  It’s just
wrong.  And I’m not going to give up until it’s done.   
  
You have a question you want to offer?  I mean, not a question —
(laughs) — recognize someone, Mr. Prime Minister.  
  
PRIME MINISTER SUGA:  (As interpreted.)  Mr. Sugimoto, with Sankei
Newspaper.  
  
Q    (As interpreted.)  Thank you very much.  My name is Sugimoto of
Sankei Newspaper.  The summit — I believe that China policy was one of
the central agenda items, so my question is on China policy.  Both
governments consider that peace and stability of Taiwan is of great
importance and that had been the agreement between the two countries.   
  
What kind of exchange of views were conducted on this matter at today’s
meeting?  In order to deter contingency in the Straits, what can Japan
do?  And what can Japan do, when actually, a contingency occurs in the
Taiwan Straits?  Did the Prime Minister explain to President Biden what
Japan can do under such circumstances?  
  
And also, were there discussions on Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region
human rights issue?  Grave concern is shared by the two countries, but
Japan is the only G7 country that has not imposed sanctions on China. 
Were you able to gain President Biden’s understanding towards such
position?  
  
PRIME MINISTER SUGA:  (As interpreted.)  As we engaged in an exchange of
views over the regional situation, we also discussed the circumstances
in Taiwan and Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region as well.  
  
     I refrain from mentioning details since it pertains to diplomatic
exchanges, but there is already an agreed recognition over the
importance of peace and stability of the Taiwan Straits between Japan
and the United States, which was reaffirmed on this occasion.   
  
I also explained Japan’s position and initiatives regarding the
situation in Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region to the President, who I
think understood my points.  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Next question is — goes to Trevor of Reuters.  
  
Q    Thank you.  Mr. President, it’s been a while since we’ve heard an
update from you on how the talks are going with Iran.  How are they
going?  And do you regard their decision to enrich to 60 percent as a
step backwards — as a sign that they aren’t serious about those
negotiations?  
  
And, for the Prime Minister, just a question on whether it’s
irresponsible to move forward with the Olympics when you have public
health experts telling you that Japan is not ready to do so.  Thank
you.  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Let me respond to the Iran question.  We do not
support and do not think it’s at all helpful that Iran is saying it’s
going to move to enrich to 60 percent.  It is contrary to the
agreement.  We are, though, nonetheless pleased that Iran has continued
to agree to engage in discussions — in direct discussions with us and
with our — our partners on how we move forward and what is needed to
allow us to move back into the <s>JOPCA</s> \[JCPOA\], and so that we
are a part of it again — that we should have never gotten out of, in my
view — without us making concessions that I’m — we’re just not willing
to make.   
  
And so the discussions are underway.  I think it’s premature to make a
judgement as to what the outcome will be, but we’re still talking.  
  
PRIME MINISTER SUGA:  (As interpreted.)  If I may invite Shintomi-san of
Kyodo News.  
  
Q    (As interpreted.)  Yes, I have a question to Prime Minister Suga
regarding the Tokyo Olympics and the Paralympics planned for this
summer.  You have garnered support from President Biden.  Did the
President mention about the concrete promise to send American athletes
or any positive comments?   
  
If you can tell us about the exchanges and the conversations during the
meeting about the COVID-19 vaccines or about climate change.  You have
discussed these aspects about the schedule of providing the vaccines or,
by 2030, the reduction target of the gases.  Any numerical targets or
actions were discussed, please?   
  
PRIME MINISTER SUGA:  (As interpreted.)  As was mentioned at the
beginning, I expressed my determination to realize the Tokyo Olympics
and the Paralympic Games as a symbol of global unity this summer.  And
President Biden, once again, expressed his support.   
  
Japan will continue careful and full preparation in order to realize the
Tokyo games this summer, in order to ensure equitable access to vaccines
for COVID-19.  We also affirmed that Japan and the U.S. will continue
our cooperation.  
  
Regarding the climate change, this is a matter that both President Biden
and I emphasize.  So, during the talk today, we have confirmed to
strengthen bilateral cooperation and collaboration in the area of
climate change and have agreed to launch the Japan-U.S. Climate
Partnership, which is extremely meaningful and significant.  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Well, thank you all very much.  And thank you, Mr.
Prime Minister.  I look forward to having you back.  
  
Thank you again, everyone.  
  
5:33 P.M. EDT      
