---
tags: blog
date: '2021-07-27'
modified_time: 2021-07-27 09:46:29-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/blog/2021/07/27/an-update-from-the-equitable-data-working-group/
published_time: 2021-07-27 09:46:28-04:00
title: "An Update from the Equitable Data Working\_Group"
---
 
By Alondra Nelson and Clarence Wardell III,  
**Equitable Data Working Group**

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Equitable Data Working Group was established on the first day of the
Biden-Harris Administration under Executive Order 13985, *[Advancing
Racial Equity and Support for Underserved Communities Through the
Federal
Government](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/01/27/memorandum-on-restoring-trust-in-government-through-scientific-integrity-and-evidence-based-policymaking/)*,
as part of the President’s commitment to a whole-of-government approach
to advancing equity. As the order notes, “a first step to promoting
equity in Government action is to gather the data necessary to inform
that effort.”

Because Federal data are often not available by race, ethnicity, sexual
orientation and gender identity, disability, income, region, veteran
status, or other crucial demographic variables, the Equitable Data
Working Group is tasked with identifying inadequacies in our existing
Federal data collection infrastructure and laying out a strategy for
improving equitable data practices in the Federal government. Acquiring
the necessary data, either through the collection of new data or by
blending information from multiple data sources, is a critical step in
ensuring equity is a central component of decision-making processes
across the Federal government. Agencies have also begun to identify
where data gaps are making it more difficult to conduct equity
assessments of their policies, programs, and services.

The Equitable Data Working Group is a multi-disciplinary group, composed
of government leaders in program policy, statistics, social science,
data science, and information technology that is initially taking a
case-study approach to the work, which will pave the way to lasting
change. The end goal is regular systematic measurement of equity and
inequities throughout the Federal government.

Our case study approach focuses our initial efforts on a set of
well-defined questions that have historically been difficult to answer
for lack of sufficient data. For instance, questions under consideration
currently include:

-   If we had data about the race, ethnicity, and gender of those using
    or not using unemployment benefits, could we better understand the
    impact of labor market cycles on underserved subpopulations?
-   Can we better understand the distribution of programs and services
    in underserved communities, particularly in response to
    climate-related crises?
-   What disaggregated data is needed to measure whether the CARES Act
    benefits and American Rescue Plan benefits were equitably
    distributed?

In each instance, the group aims to focus on high-impact data collection
and prioritize cases that could create immediate value for local
communities, policymakers, and academic researchers, alongside broad
impact across the Federal government. Our intent is for these initial
case studies to highlight the specific challenges that need to be
addressed to establish and sustain equitable data practices across the
Federal government, and ultimately form the basis of broader
recommendations for how these practices can illuminate equity
considerations in program and policy design, implementation, and
outcomes.

By exploring key policy questions dependent upon underutilized,
inaccessible, or missing data, the Equitable Data Working Group will
explore ways to leverage government data in order to measure and promote
equity. For example, in some cases the data needed to respond to an
issue may exist, but there are so many barriers that it is
underutilized. Part of our charge is to look for ways to responsibly
promote agency data sharing and matching, to the extent permitted by
law, to create datasets needed to answer relevant questions.
Accordingly, we may make recommendations requiring regulatory or
legislative changes.

As the Equitable Data Working Group proceeds in our work, we recognize
that it is necessary to consider challenges for unintentional disclosure
of personal information and privacy protection. We must be able to
collect and share data about underserved communities—including Asian
American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander; lesbian, gay, bisexual,
transgender, and queer (LGBTQ+); and rural communities—in ways that do
not exacerbate their vulnerability, particularly when using or providing
public-use data with high levels of detail.

We will also highlight areas of particular importance to advancing
equity outcomes where the Federal government needs to collect additional
information, because the data needed to illuminate or respond to an
issue are low-quality or do not exist. For instance, very few Federal
surveys and datasets provide the ability to characterize the experiences
and life outcomes of those who identify as LGBTQ+ Americans, making it
challenging for Federal policymakers, researchers, and the American
people to ensure equitable life outcomes for LGBTQ+ people. As a modest
step toward ensuring Federal data practices reflect and include LGBTQ+
individuals and families, we worked with the Office of the Chief
Statistician and the U.S. Census Bureau to begin the process of
including questions about sexual orientation and gender identity for the
first time in their Household Pulse Survey beginning this month. The
Household Pulse Survey measures how the coronavirus pandemic is
impacting households across the country from a social and economic
perspective. By including questions about sexual orientation and gender
identity, Federal agencies and researchers will gain critical new
insights into the impacts that the COVID-19 pandemic and resulting
economic crisis has had on LGBTQ+ Americans. Going forward, we intend to
continue work with key Federal agencies to identify opportunities for
appropriate and dignified data collection on sexual orientation and
gender identity.

The Equitable Data Working Group will provide an initial report to
Ambassador Susan Rice, Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy,
by Fall 2021. The report will communicate specific barriers and gaps to
equitable data identified through our case studies and direct
consultation with agencies and external stakeholders. The report will
also include recommendations as to how to address those barriers. In
this vein, the Equitable Data Working Group is seeking to foster new
partnerships between Federal agencies, academic and research partners,
state, local, and tribal governments, community and advocacy groups, and
other stakeholders, in order to leverage Federal data for new insights
on the effects of structurally biased policies, and to advance capacity
for multilayered, intersectional analysis of Federal datasets. We’re
already seeing this happen across some agencies, including the
[Department of Labor’s Summer Data Challenge on Equity and Underserved
Communities](https://www.dol.gov/agencies/oasp/evaluation/currentstudies/Department-of-Labor-Summer-Data-Challenge),
and we hope to help replicate these promising approaches.

We plan to keep the public updated on our work and regularly share
examples of how the Equitable Data Working Group is working across
Federal agencies, in consultation with the Chief Data Officers Council,
Evaluation Officer Council and Interagency Committee on Standards
Policy, and in partnership with communities and other stakeholders
outside the Federal government. We recognize that many have worked for
years to advance this work, and we are both excited about the promise
that this moment holds and clear-eyed about the challenges that have
stalled progress in the past. Our approach is intended to assess
systemic barriers and stimulate long-term change that seeks to go beyond
a one-time project. Further, we hope agencies will be able to use what
we learn as they develop and commit to ongoing efforts to advance equity
in their Action Plans due in January 2022. We are eager to learn from
how others have approached this issue in their own organizations and
sectors, and welcome input into our approach. We have been pleased to
hear feedback from the public via the recent [Request for
Information](https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2021/05/05/2021-09109/methods-and-leading-practices-for-advancing-equity-and-support-for-underserved-communities-through)
on *Methods and Leading Practices for Advancing Equity and Support for
Underserved Communities* through Government and we look forward to
future engagement.
