---
category: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-03-06'
modified_time: 2021-03-06 16:37:17-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/03/06/remarks-by-president-biden-on-the-senate-passage-of-the-american-rescue-plan/
published_time: 2021-03-06 17:00:00-05:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on the Senate Passage of the American Rescue\_\
  Plan"
---
 
State Dining Room

2:05 P.M. EST

     THE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon.  It’s a good day today.  You know,
when we took office 45 days ago, I promised the American people that
help was on the way.  Today, I can say we’ve taken one more giant step
forward in delivering on that promise that help is on the way.

I want to thank — start off by thanking the Vice President, but I want
to thank all of the senators who worked so hard to reach a compromise to
do the right thing for the American people during this crisis and voted
to pass the American Rescue Plan.  It obviously wasn’t easy, it wasn’t
always pretty, but it was so desperately needed — urgently needed.

Also, I also need to say a few words about the Majority Leader Chuck
Schumer, who I spoke with many times on this and again this morning.  I
served in the Senate, as you all know, for many years.  I’ve never seen
anyone work as skillfully, as ably, as patiently, with determination, to
deliver such a consequential piece of legislation that was so urgently
needed as the American Rescue Plan.

Chuck Schumer — Senator Chuck Schumer, when the country needed you most,
you led, Chuck, and you delivered.  Neither I nor the country will ever
forget that.  And it’s not a moment too soon.  I’ve been talking about
the urgency of this need.

For — for over a year, the American people were told they were on their
own.  They were seeing — we’ve seen how hard that has been on so many
Americans.  As of last night, 519,064 lives lost to the virus.  That
many empty chairs this morning — the breakfast table — gone.  More than
four hundred \[thousand\] small businesses closed unnecessarily. 
Millions of people out of work through no fault of their own.  I want to
emphasize that: through no fault of their own.  Food bank lines
stretching for miles.  Did any of you ever you’d see that in America, in
cities all across this country?  Families facing the threat of eviction.

This nation has suffered too much for much too long.  And everything in
this package is designed to relieve the suffering and to meet the most
urgent needs of the nation and put us in a better position to prevail,
starting with beating this virus and vaccinating the country. 

The resources in this plan will be used to expand and speed up
manufacturing and distribution of vaccines so we can get every single
American vaccinated sooner than later.  I believe by — we’ll have enough
by the end of — by the middle of May to vaccinate.  It’s going to take
longer to take longer to get it in their arm, but that’s how much
vaccine we’ll have.

Because of all the funding, we’ll be able to hire more vaccinators, set
up more vaccination sites to get the country in a place to get back to
normal.  This plan will get checks out the door, starting this month, to
the American people who so desperately need the help, many of whom are
lying in bed at night, staring at the ceiling, wondering, “Will I lose
my job, if I haven’t already?  Will I lose my insurance?  Will I lose my
home?”

Over 85 percent of American households will get direct payments of
$1,400 per person.  For a typical middle-class family of four — husband
and wife working, making $100,000 a year total, with three kids —
they’ll get $5,600 — I mean, with two kids — will get $5,600, and it’ll
be on the way soon.

That means the mortgage can get paid.  That means the child can stay in
community college.  That means maintaining the health insurance you
have.  It’s going to make a big difference

in so many of lives in this country.

     Unemployment benefits will be extended for 11 million Americans who
have lost their jobs and who, last night, again were lying in bed, just
thinking, “My lord, I’m going to lose my unemployment insurance in a
week or so.”  It was about to expire.

     Schools are going to have the resources they need to open safely. 
States and local governments that have lost tens of thousands of
essential workers will be — have the resources they need available to
them, to those laid-off police officers, firefighters, teachers, and
nurses they can rehire.  These are essential personnel.

Look, the American Rescue Plan lowers healthcare premiums.  Food and
nutrition assistance.  It’s hard to believe that 24 million adults and
11 million children, as I speak, in the United States suffer from food
insecurity.  That means, simply, they don’t have enough food to eat. 
Did you ever imagine in the United States of America, you’d see lines,
literally miles long — kids — folks in their automobiles, waiting for a
box of food to be put in their trunk.  I stood in line, handing out
food.  The people coming up never, ever, ever thought they’d be in that
position. 

This helps families who are behind on their rent and their mortgage
payments so they aren’t thrown out of their homes. 

Look, the bottom line is this:  This plan puts us

on the path to beating the virus.  This plan gives those

families who are struggling the most the help and the breathing room
they need to get through this moment.  This plan gives small businesses
in this country a fighting chance to survive.

And one more thing: This plan is historic.  Taken altogether, this plan
is going to make it possible to cut child poverty in half.  Let me say
that again — it’s significant, historic: It will cut child poverty in
half.

There’s much more to this bill, but, for now, let me make one final
point.  When I was elected, I said we were going to get the government
out of the business of battling on Twitter and back in the business of
delivering for the American people, of making a difference in their
lives, giving everyone a chance — a fighting chance, of showing the
American people that their government can work for them.  And passing
the American Rescue Plan will do that.

And, you know, it may sound strange, but a lot of senators and
congressmen I want to thank, but I really want to thank the American
people for making all of this possible.  You say, “Well, how do they
make it possible?”  Well, quite frankly, without the overwhelming
bipartisan support of the American people, this would not have
happened.  Your elected officials heard you.  Overwhelming public
support — every public opinion poll shows overwhelming support for this
plan.  And for the last weeks, it’s shown that.  Every public opinion
poll shows the people want this, they believe it’s needed, and they
believe it’s urgent. 

And now this bill returns to the House of Representatives, which has
done a great job from the beginning, where I hope it will find quick
passage so it can be sent to my desk to be signed into law.

By passing the American Rescue Plan, we’ll have heeded the voice of the
American people, not ignored their voices.  By passing this plan, we
will have delivered real, tangible results for the American people and
their families, and they’ll be able to see and know and feel the change
in their own lives.  And by passing this plan, we’ll have proved that
this government, this democracy can still work.  What has to be done —
it’ll improve people’s lives.  

And one more thing: The vast majority of economists — left, right, and
center — from Wall Street to the — to the private — private economic
polling initiatives — the economists — as I’ve said, left, right, and
center — say, “In addition to the needs the people have, we need this to
grow the economy.”  That if we haven’t spent this money and recreated
the kind of incentive for people to be able to make a good living, that
we’d be in real trouble. 

This will create millions of new jobs — it’s estimated over 6 million
new jobs by itself; increase the Gross Domestic Product by a trillion
dollars; put our nation in a position to out-compete the rest of the
world — because the rest of the world is moving, particularly China; and
to know that as tough as this moment is, there are brighter days ahead. 
There really are. 

As I’ve said before, it’s never a good bet to bet against America.  It’s
never been a good bet to bet against the American people.  We are
America.  We’re going to get there.  We’re going to remain the leading
economy in the world and going to be the most successful economy in the
world because of you, the American people.

Thank you, and God bless you all.  May God protect our troops.  Thank
you.

Q    Mr. President, why do you think you didn’t get a single Republican
vote, and what does the drama of the last 24 hours, including with
Senator Manchin, tell you about the next four years?

THE PRESIDENT:  They’re going to be good.  I’m going to succeed.  We’re
going to succeed moving forward.

Look, the American people strongly support what we’re doing.  That’s the
key here.  And that’s going to continue to seep down through the public,
including from our Republican friends.  There’s a lot of Republicans who
came very close.  They’ve got a lot of pressure on them.  I still
haven’t given up on getting their support. 

Thank you.

     Q    (Inaudible) the compromises?

     THE PRESIDENT:  Pardon?

     Q    Your message to House Democrats who were frustrated with some
of the compromises in the Senate bill, particularly —

     THE PRESIDENT:  They’re not frustrated.  Bernie Sanders said this
is the most progressive bill he’s ever seen passed since he’s been
here.  And the compromises were all compromises that didn’t affect the
substance and the essence of what the bill is.  Going from $300 — from
$400 to $300, to the unemployment excess.  Well, it got extended until
September.  The end result is the essentially about the same.  And so, I
don’t think any of the compromises have in any way fundamentally altered
the essence of what I put in the bill in the first place.

     Thank you.

2:14 P.M. EST
