---
category: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-03-10'
modified_time: 2021-03-10 20:38:18-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/03/10/remarks-by-president-biden-at-event-with-the-ceos-of-johnson-johnson-and-merck/
published_time: 2021-03-10 21:00:00-05:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at Event with the CEOs of Johnson & Johnson and\_\
  Merck"
---
 
South Court Auditorium

3:43 P.M. EST

THE PRESIDENT:  I want to thank you both for those words.  You know, you
and I knew one another when I wasn’t a President and you weren’t a
chairman.

MR. FRAZIER:  Right.  (Laughs.)

THE PRESIDENT:  We’d ride back and forth on Amtrak.  You lived in
Philadelphia; I was commuting to Wilmington.  It’s good to see you both
here.  And thank both of you for your kind words.

And I want to thank the scientists and researchers at Johnson & Johnson
for the literal heroic effort that began when COVID-19 first spread and
led to the safe and effective vaccine that are now being co-produced. 

Today, we’re seeing two health companies — competitors — each with over
130 years of experience, coming together to help write a more hopeful
chapter in our battle against COVID-19.  I just had an opportunity to
meet with both of these CEOs and with their senior operating officers,
and to hear about the work they’re doing together to produce vaccine
substitute \[substance\] and accelerate what they call to — to take it
to full finish \[fill finish\].

You know, what’s clear is this is a historic, nearly unprecedented
collaboration.  During World War Two, one of the country’s slogans was
“We are all in this together.”  “We are all in this together.”  And
companies took that slogan to heart.  For example, when one automaker
didn’t have the capacity to build enough jeeps, so a competitor stepped
in to help.  Competing airline makers teamed up, and they produced parts
for each other and gave the American pilots, as a consequence of that,
control of the skies.

Today, we’re seeing the same type of collaboration when it comes to
getting this virus under control.  I said we ought to treat this like a
war.  So, I want to thank the two companies for showing how we can come
together to defeat this virus by putting patriotism and public health
first.  And I mean that literally — putting patriotism and public health
first.

Your companies have been working closely with a man you’ve both
privately, on the way over, bragged about: Jeff Zients.  Jeff is in the
front row here.  I want to thank you, Jeff, and the entire COVID team
you put together for the coordination of our COVID-19 response, and Dr.
David Kessler and his team at the Department of Health and Human
Services.

You know, when we came into office, we began working with the team at
J&J to accelerate and add capacity to their manufacturing and production
efforts.  And it quickly became clear that Merck — one of the world’s
leading vaccine manufacturers — was in a position to be the partner we
needed in this effort — in this wartime effort.

I have not hesitated to use my power under the Defense Production Act to
expedite critical materials in vaccine production, such as equipment,
machinery, and supplies.  And it’s not just Johnson & Johnson and Merck;
Pfizer and Moderna also worked closely with us to help speed up the
delivery of millions of more doses. 

The result is that we’re now on track to have enough vaccine supply for
every American adult by the end of May — months earlier than anyone
expected.  And today, I am directing Jeff and my HHS team to produce an
additional 100 million doses and purchase another 100 million doses of
the Johnson & Johnson vaccine.  I’m doing this because, in this wartime
efforts, we need maximum flexibility.  There is always a chance that
we’ll encounter unexpected challenges or we’ll — there will be a new
need for a vaccine effort — or vaccination effort. 

A lot can happen, a lot can change, and we need to be prepared.  And, of
course, we need to match the miracle of science and the skill of
manufacturing with the massive logistical undertaking of vaccinating
over 300 million Americans.  Already, we have gone from Johnson &
Johnson vaccine authorization to shots in the arm in three days. 

I was telling the gentlemen, we were at a facility yesterday — a
veterans outreach — and there were four — or there were three members of
the veterans community getting shots.  One was getting — of each of the
three vaccines.  And the guy in the middle, a veteran, was getting his. 
And I was standing about as far away as I am from you, and standing up,
and he was sitting down.  And as the nurse put it in his arm, he went,
“J&J — just one.”  (Laughs.)

Well, there’s millions of people who are going to feel that way and be
proud to have — be in a position that they ha- — an ability to get the
kind of help they need.

Seven weeks ago, only 8 percent of the seniors — those most vulnerable
to COVID-19 — had received the vaccination.  Today, 60 percent of the
people over the age of 65 or older have received at least one shot.  And
that’s because this is the population that represents 80 percent of the
COVID-19 deaths. 

We’ve opened — we’ve opened support and opened — excuse me — and
supported more than 500 community vaccination sites.  That’s more — and
they’re administrating hundreds of thousands of shots a day. 

And for folks who aren’t near a pharmacy or mass vaccination center,
we’re deploying mobile clinics, like vans, that go into places to meet
the folks where they live.  We’re also supplying vaccines to community
health centers to reach those who have been hit the hardest and suffered
the most, especially black, Latino, Native American, and rural
communities.  And this is important because we know we have more to do
to ensure everyone is treated with equity and those most impacted get
the care they deserve.

On Saturday, we hit a record of 2.9 million vaccinations in one day in
America.  And beyond the numbers are the stories: a father who says he
no longer fears for his daughter when she leaves to go to work at the
hospital; the children who are now able to hug their grandparents.  The
vaccines bring hope and healing in so many ways. 

Again, a vaccinated American is the only way to beat the pandemic, get
our economy back on track, and for us to get back our lives and our
loved ones. 

You know, that’s why the American Rescue Plan was so critical.  I want
to thank Speaker Pelosi and the House of Representatives today for
passing the bill, and I will be signing it into law shortly. 

This bill represents a historic — historic victory for the American
people.  I look forward to signing it later this week. 

Everything in the American Rescue Plan addresses a real need, including
investments to fund our entire vaccination effort: more vaccines, more
vaccinators, and more vaccinations sites.  Millions more Americans will
get tested, including home testing.  Schools will soon have the funding
and resources to reopen safely — a national imperative.

The American Rescue Plan, the partnership between Johnson & Johnson and
Merck, proves we can do big things, important things in this country. 

Now, I’ll — let me conclude with this: Tomorrow night, I’m going on
primetime to address the American people and talk about what we went
through as a nation this past year.  But more importantly, I’m going to
talk about what comes next.  I’m going to launch the next phase of the
COVID response and explain what we will do as a government and what we
will ask of the American people. 

There is light at the end of this dark tunnel of the past year, but we
cannot let our guard down now or assume that victory is inevitable. 
Together, we’re going to get through this pandemic and usher in a
healthier and more hopeful future.  So there is real reason for hope,
folks.  There’s real reason for hope, I promise you. 

May God bless you all.  May God protect our troops.  And may God ease
the pain in the heart of so many who have lost so many people in this
pandemic. 

Thank you, and I really — we’re going to do this.  We’re going to get it
done.  Thank you.

3:53 P.M. EST
