---
category: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-03-18'
modified_time: 2021-03-18 20:56:53-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/03/18/remarks-by-president-biden-on-the-100-million-shot-goal/
published_time: 2021-03-18 17:45:00-04:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on the 100 Million Shot\_Goal"
---
 
East Room

3:26 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, folks, good to see you all. 

When I announced in early December that I had goal that I set of
administering 100 million shots for the virus in the first 100 days of
our office — 100 million shots in 100 days — it was considered
ambitious.  Some even suggested it was somewhat audacious.  Experts said
that it was a — the plan was, quote, “definitely aggressive,” and
distribution would have to be “seamless” for us to be successful.  One
headline simply put it, quote: “It won’t be easy.”  End of quote.  Well,
it wasn’t.

When I took office, when we took office, there was a lot that had to be
done.  We needed more vaccines, more vaccinators, more places for people
to get vaccinated.  And we needed a whole-of-government approach. 

So, I directed Jeff Zients, the coordinator of our COVID-19 response, to
put us on a war footing — and I meant that in a literal sense — to get
us on track to truly beat this virus.

And I’m proud to announce that tomorrow, 58 days into our
administration, we will have met my goal of administering 100 million
shots to our fellow Americans. 

That’s weeks ahead of schedule, and even with the setbacks we faced
during the winter storms.  And it’s another big step on the path to
checking the — putting checks in pockets and shots in people’s arms. 

When we crossed the 50 million doses just three weeks ago,   I told you
that every time we hit the 50 million mark, I’d update you on our
progress. 

So here is where we are today: Eight weeks ago, only 8 percent of
seniors, those most vulnerable to COVID-19, had received a vaccination. 
Today, 65 percent of people aged 65 or older have received at least one
shot, and 36 percent are fully vaccinated.  And that’s key — because
this is a population that represents 80 percent of the well over 500,000
COVID-19 deaths that have occurred in America.

We have nearly doubled the amount of vaccine doses that we distribute to
states, Tribes, and territories each week.  We have gone from 1 million
shots a day — that I promised in December, before we were even sworn in
— to an average of two and one half million shots a day, outpacing the
rest of the world significantly.

And here’s how we accomplished this: Using the power given to a
President under the Defense Production Act, we expedited critical
materials in vaccine production, such as equipment, machinery, and
supplies.  We worked with vaccine manufacturers to speed up the delivery
of millions more doses and brokered a historic manufacturing partnership
between competing companies who put patriotism and public health first.

These steps put us on track to have enough vaccine — enough vaccine
supply for every adult American by the end of May — months — months
earlier than anyone expected.

And we stood up or supplied more than 600 community vaccination sites
that are administering hundreds of thousands of shots per day. 

We launched the Federal Pharmacy Program, which has allowed millions of
Americans to get a shot at one of one thous- — or, excuse me, one of
14,000 local pharmacies in this country, the same way they get their flu
shot. 

And for folks who aren’t near a pharmacy or mass vaccination center,
we’ve supplied more than 500 mobile clinics, like pop-up sites or vans,
meeting people where they are — meeting people where they are.

We’ve developed nearly — we’ve deployed nearly 6,000 federal personnel,
including FEMA, active-duty military, and  Department of Health and
Human Services to support vaccinations

and serve as vaccinators — putting the needle in people’s arms.

We’re also supplying vaccines to community health centers to reach those
who have been the hardest hit — the hardest hit — and suffered the most,
especially Black, Latino, Native American, and rural communities.  This
is really important — because we believe that speed and efficiency must
be matched with fairness and equity.   

Now, when \[Vice\] President Harris and I took a virtual tour of a
vaccination center in Arizona not long ago, one of the nurses on that —
on that tour, injecting people, giving vaccinations, said that each shot
was like administering a dose of hope.  “A dose of hope.”  That’s how
she phrased it.

Behind these 100 million shots are millions of lives changed when people
receive that dose of hope: Grandparents can hug their grandchildren
again.  Frontline workers who can show up at their jobs without the same
fear they used to have.  Teachers — with the confidence to head back
into the classroom.

These milestones are significant accomplishments, but we have much more
to do.  Much more to do.  And the American Rescue Plan will help us do
it.

In addition to the cash payments it provides to you and your families,
it also provides the funds to add vaccinators, to supply \[sic\] more
community vaccination — support more community vaccination centers, and
increase testing.

It will help us accelerate nationwide efforts to reopen our schools
safely.  And as I told the nation last week, I’ve directed all states,
Tribes, and territories to make all adults eligible to be vaccinated no
later than May the 1st.  I’m glad to see that several states are already
taking that step to make more and more Americans eligible, even before
May 1st.

Tomorrow, we will hit 100 million doses our administration has
administered.  But I’ve always said: That’s just the floor.  We will not
stop until we beat this pandemic.  Next week, I will announce our next
goal to put shots in arms. 

This is a time for optimism, but it’s not a time for relaxation.  I need
all Americans — I need all of you to do your part: Wash your hands, stay
socially distanced, keep masking up as recommended by the CDC, and get
vaccinated when it’s your turn.  Now is not the time to let down our
guard.

In the last week, we’ve seen increases in the number of cases in several
states.

Scientists have made clear that things may get worse as new variants of
this virus spread.  Getting vaccinated is the best thing we can do to
fight back against these variants.  

While millions of people are vaccinated, we need millions more to be
vaccinated.  And, again, I need you to get vaccinated when it come– when
it’s your turn, when you’re able to do that.  I need your help.  I need
you to help — not just the country, but your family, your friends, your
neighbors.  Get them vaccinated as well.

If we keep our guard up, stick together, and stick with the science, we
can look forward to a Fourth of July that feels a bit more normal, with
small groups able to gather for cookouts in backyards, and when we’ll be
— where we begin to declare our independence on Independence Day from
the virus. 

Look, together — together we’re going to come through this stronger,
with renewed faith in each other, in our government that fulfills its
most important function: protecting the American people.

Let me be clear again: wearing this mask, in the meantime; making sure
you wash your hands; making sure you socially distance and listen to the
CDC.  We’ve got to reach the point where we have herd immunity — meaning
where we have a vast majority of the American people have been
vaccinated — before we can stop wearing these. 

So, please, please, don’t let what’s happening — you see happening in
Europe and you see on television.  Keep the faith.  Keep wearing the
mask, keep washing your hands, and keep socially distanced.  We’re going
to beat this.  We’re way ahead of schedule, but we’ve got a long way to
go. 

So I just wanted to bring you up to date.  And I thank you very much. 
And may God bless America, and may God protect our troops. 

Thank you so much.                                        

END                 3:36 P.M. EDT
