---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-03-01'
modified_time: 2021-03-01 18:19:32-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/03/01/remarks-by-president-biden-and-president-lopez-obrador-of-mexico-before-virtual-bilateral-meeting/
published_time: 2021-03-01 18:45:00-05:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden and President L\xF3pez Obrador of Mexico Before\
  \ Virtual Bilateral\_Meeting"
---
 
4:57 P.M. EST

     PRESIDENT BIDEN:  It’s great to be with you, Mr. President.  You
know, this is — my second call to a foreign leader in my third day as
President was you.  And now you’re my second virtual meeting with a
foreign leader, and that’s not by accident.  The important of our
relation- — the importance of our relationship with Mexico is vital to a
North American partnership we have and paramount to all the elements of
my administration’s priorities.  So I’m delighted to be with you.

     Of the 16 visits I made to Latin America and the Caribbean as Vice
President, four of them were to Mexico, and I was honored to meet you on
one of those visits, Mr. President.

     During my visits, I got to know Mexico a little bit and its people,
and paid my respects to the Virgin of Guadalupe.  As a matter of fact, I
still have my rosary beads that my son was wearing when he passed.  And
I walked the beautiful and historic cobblestones of Mexico City and
spoke with Mexicans of all walks of life.  And I treasure those
memories, and I hope to be able to build on them in the next four
years. 

     Mr. President, this is what I know: The United States and Mexico
are stronger when we stand together.  There’s a long and complicated
history between our nations, and haven’t always been perfect neighbors
with one another, but we have seen over and over again the power and the
purpose when we cooperate.  And we’re safer when we work together,
whether it’s addressing the challenges of our shared border or getting
this pandemic under control.

     In the Obama-Biden administration, we made a commitment that we
look at Mexico as an equal, not as somebody who is south of our border. 
You are equal.  And what you do in Mexico and how you succeed impacts
dramatically on what the rest of the hemisphere will look like.

     And as you know, the fastest-growing population in the United
States is Hispanic.  And 60 percent of the Hispanic population is
Mexican-American.  They’re an integral part of our history, and I keep a
bust of a civil rights leader, Chávez — César Chávez — in my Oval Office
as a reminder.

     And, Mr. President, I’m looking forward to our discussion today and
to the many ways we’ll have to work together as neighbors and partners
in meeting our shared challenges.  And thank you for doing this. 

     PRESIDENT LÓPEZ OBRADOR:  (As interpreted.)  President Biden, I
would like to start by thanking you for your confession regarding your
devotion to the Virgin of Guadalupe.  We, as Mexicans, respect and
admire two symbols.  They might be different; however, they call to the
plurality of our country. One is the Virgin of Guadalupe, as you said,
and the other one is Benito Juárez, a liberal president, the best one we
have ever had — a Zapotec indigenous that we are very proud of. 

     I would like to thank you also for starting the conversation this
way: Mexico — for stating that Mexico is as important to you.  It is a
pleasure to greet you.  It is important that we base our good
relationships on constant dialogue, periodic dialogue. 

     I know our relations in the future will be even better.  We are
united by 3,180 kilometers of border.  But we are not only united by
geography; we are also united by our economies, our trade, our culture,
our history, and our friendship. 

     We had a Mexican president who dominated the country for 34 years —
very little time.  His name was Porfirio Díaz.  And he would say, “Poor
Mexico — so far from God, and yet so close to the United States.”  I can
now say that it’s wonderful for Mexico to be close to God and not so far
from the United States. 

     I believe our countries will allow us to develop jointly in these
dire times.  Integration will strengthen both our countries as we are
faced with this inevitable expansion of other regions.  Our relations
are strategic.

     I would like to also thank you after the call that we have had for
wanting to base our relations on respect and equality.  It is important
for Mexico, and we must keep on cooperating for further development
based on independence and autonomy, potentializing what our peoples mean
to us.

     We are very thankful that you are willing to maintain good
relations for the good of our peoples in North America — the Canadian,
the United States, and the Mexican peoples. 

     PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Well, thank you, Mr. President.  I’m going to ask
the press whether they’d be kind enough to exit shortly here.  I’d
appreciate it.  Thank you very, very much.  Thank you.

     Q    Mr. President, are you sending vaccines to Mexico?  Sending
vaccines to Mexico?  Are you sending?  Are you considering?

     PRESIDENT BIDEN:  We’re going to talk about that.

     Q    How about — how about a program for immigration (inaudible)?

     PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Thank you.

                             END                  5:11 P.M. EST
