---
category: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-03-02'
modified_time: 2021-03-02 19:24:32-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/03/02/statement-of-president-joe-biden-on-the-passing-of-vernon-jordan/
published_time: 2021-03-02 19:24:31-05:00
title: Statement of President Joe Biden on the Passing of Vernon Jordan
---
 
Vernon Jordan began life in one of the first public housing projects in
America and ended life as a fixture in our country’s halls of power.
Along the way, he became a foot soldier for civil rights, a trusted
friend and counselor to presidents, and a loving husband, father, and
grandfather.   
  
Vernon navigated America’s boardrooms with an activist’s heart, working
the levers of power in service of progress. And the countless business
and political leaders who turned to Vernon for guidance did so because
when he spoke, you could hear in his rich baritone the belief in an
America that was capable of becoming an ever-more perfect union. It was
a journey he’d lived. As a young lawyer, he went home to Georgia, to
battle against unjust systems in the segregated South. As president of
the National Urban League, he fought for economic justice because he
knew that a job brought with it more than a paycheck; it brought
dignity. As a civil rights leader shot in the back by a white
supremacist, he came away from that near-death experience energized
rather than embittered. As a high-powered lawyer and financier, “the
Rosa Parks of Wall Street,” he was often the first in many rooms but
never afraid to speak his mind.  
  
Vernon Jordan knew the soul of America, in all of its goodness and all
of its unfulfilled promise. And he knew the work was far from over. He
liked to say that we had torn down what Dr. King called “sagging walls
of segregation,” but we still had to deal with “the rubble”—with
systemic racism, with inequity, with the injustice still faced by so
many Black Americans. To honor him, and others of this Civil Rights
generation, we must continue to do the same.   
  
When eulogizing other leaders, Vernon liked to quote the great Reverend
Gardner Taylor, and his words ring true today: “Something vast and noble
has passed from among us. It is like a mighty oak has fallen, leaving an
empty and gaping and glaring space against the sky where he stood.” Jill
and I extend our deepest condolences to Ann, Vickee, and the entire
Jordan family.

  
\###
