---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-03-23'
modified_time: 2021-03-23 14:56:28-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/03/23/remarks-by-president-biden-on-the-shooting-in-boulder-colorado/
published_time: 2021-03-23 14:56:27-04:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on the Shooting in Boulder,\_Colorado"
---
 
12:55 P.M. EDT  
  
     THE PRESIDENT:  There’s still a great deal we don’t know about the
killer and the motivation of the killer in Boulder, Colorado, and other
critical aspects of this mass shooting.  I’ve been briefed this morning
by the Attorney General of the United States, the Director of the FBI. 
I’ve spoken with the governor, and I’ll be speaking with the mayor on
the aircraft.  
  
We’re working very closely with the state and local law enforcement
officials, and they’re going to keep me updated as they learn more. 
You’re going to ask me to speculate — understandably, you’re going to
ask me to speculate on what happened, why it happened.  And I’m not
going to do that now because we don’t have all the information — not
until I have all the facts.  
  
But I do know this: As President, I can use all the resources at my
disposal to keep the American people safe.  As I said: At this moment, a
great deal remains unknown.  But three things are certain.  First, 10
lives have been lost, and more families have been shattered by gun
violence in the state of Colorado.  And Jill and I are devastated.  And
the feeling — I just can’t imagine how the families are feeling — the
victims whose futures were stolen from them, from their families, from
their loved ones who now have to struggle to go on and try to make sense
of what’s happened.  
  
Less than a week after the horrific murders of eight people and the
assault on the AAPI community in Georgia, while the flag was still
flying half-staff for the tragedy, another American city has been
scarred by gun violence and the resulting trauma.  
  
And the state that — I even hate to say it because we’re saying it so
often: My heart goes out.  Our hearts go out for the survivors.  The —
who had to — had to flee for their lives and who hid, terrified, unsure
if they would ever see their families again, their friends again.  The
consequences of all this are deeper than I suspect we know.  By that, I
mean the mental consequences — a feeling of — anyway, it just — we’ve
been through too many of these.  
  
The second point I want to make is: My deepest thanks to the heroic
police and other first responders who acted so quickly to address the
situation and keep the members of their community safe.  To state the
obviously — the obvious, I commend the exceptional bravery of Officer
Eric Talley.  I send my deepest condolences to his family — his close,
close family and seven children.  
  
You know, when he pinned on that badge yesterday morning, he didn’t know
what the day would bring.  I want everybody to think about this: Every
time an officer walks out of his or her home and pins that badge on, a
family member that they just said goodbye to wonders whether they’ll —
subconsciously — will they get that call.  The call that his wife
got.   
  
He thought he’d be coming home to his family and his seven children. 
But when the moment to act came, Officer Talley did not hesitate in his
duty, making the ultimate sacrifice in his effort to save lives.  That’s
a definition of an American hero.  
  
And thirdly, I want to be very clear — this is the one thing I do know
enough to say on it, in terms of what’s happened there: While we’re
still waiting for more information regarding the shooter; his motive;
the weapons he used — the guns, the magazines, the weapons, and the
modifications that apparently have taken place to those weapons that are
involved here — I don’t need to wait another minute, let alone an hour,
to take commonsense steps that will save the lives in the future and to
urge my colleagues in the House and Senate to act.   
  
We can ban assault weapons and high-capacity magazines in this country
once again.  I got that done when I was a senator.  It passed.  It was
law for the longest time, and it brought down these mass killings.  We
should do it again.   
  
We can close the loopholes in our background check system, including the
“Charleston loophole.”  That’s one of the best tools we have right now
to prevent gun violence.  The Senate should immediately pass — let me
say it again: The United States Senate — I hope some are listening —
should immediately pass the two House-passed bills that close loopholes
in the background check system.  These are bills that received votes of
both Republicans and Democrats in the House.  This is not and should not
be a partisan issue; this is an American issue.  It will save lives —
American lives — and we have to act.  We should also ban assault weapons
in the process.  
  
I’ll have much more to say as we learn more, but I wanted to be clear:
Those poor folks who died left behind families — that leaves a big hole
in their hearts.  And — and we can save lives increasing the background
checks so that they’re supposed to occur, and eliminating assault
weapons and the size of magazines.  We don’t know all the detail yet on
that.  But I’ll be talking to you more later today or in the next couple
of days about what else we know.  
  
May God bless you all and those families who are mourning today because
of gun violence in Colorado and Georgia and all across the country.  We
have to act so there’s not more of you — there’s fewer of you, as time
goes on.   
  
Thank you so much.  
  
Q    Will you introduce new gun legislation, Mr. President?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  I’ll talk to you about that later.  Thank you.  
  
1:02 P.M. EDT
