---
category: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-03-12'
modified_time: 2021-03-12 12:55:13-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/03/12/remarks-by-president-biden-prime-minister-modi-of-india-prime-minister-morrison-of-australia-and-prime-minister-suga-of-japan-in-virtual-meeting-of-the-quad/
published_time: 2021-03-12 12:01:03-05:00
title: Remarks by President Biden, Prime Minister Modi of India, Prime Minister Morrison
  of Australia, and Prime Minister Suga of Japan in the Virtual Quad Leaders Summit
---
 
State Dining Room

8:32 A.M. EST

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Hello, everyone.  I wish we were able to do this in
person, but it’s wonderful to gather with friends even — even in this
virtual format.  We’re reminded that we’re in the midst of a global
crisis, but we’re going to overcome that as well. 

The Quad group is — was created in the wake of, as you just — everyone
just saw on that short film — in the wake of a crisis under my
predecessor, George W. Bush, on the 204 — the 2004 tsunami. 

I remember later, Mr. Prime Minister, in Japan, going and visiting that
— the aftermath of that.  It was devastating what you all went through. 

And for the first time, we’re convening this group as — at a leader
level.  And I want to thank my counterparts for joining me today: Prime
Minister Morrison and Modi and Suga.  You — it’s good to have you all. 
Like I said, I wish we were doing this together. 

The — it’s also the first multilateral summit that I’ve had the
opportunity to host as President.  And on this — and on this moment,
it’s a purpose that I think we all are concerned about: a free and open
Indo-Pacific is essential to each of our futures, our countries.

The United States is committed to working with you, our partners, and
all our allies in the region to achieve stability.  And this is a group
of — particularly important because it’s dedicated to the practical
solutions and concrete results. 

And, my counterparts, if you’ll forgive me, I’d like to give one example
of why it matters.  There are many examples, but, yesterday, I signed in
law the American Rescue Plan to get the American people through this
pandemic and kick start our economy and our economic recovery.  It’s a
bill that will get meaningful help into the hands of people in our
country who need it the most. 

Consequently, this week, the OECD revised up its expected rate of growth
for the United States this year as a consequence of that legislation. 
In fact, it doubled it from 3.2 percent to 6.5 percent; the fastest rate
in one-year economic growth since 1984.  And it’s critical because the
OECD also predicted that the United States economic growth, fueled by
the ARP and increased vaccinations, will be a key driver in global
growth this year and our trade partners benefiting around the world as a
consequence. 

But to get this right, we all have to focus on generating domestic
demand and driving sustainable global growth.  And we’ve launching an
ambitious new joint partnership that is going to boost vaccine
manufacturing, and — for the global benefit — and strengthen
vaccinations to benefit the entire Indo-Pacific. 

We’re establishing a new mechanism to enhance our cooperation and raise
our mutual ambitions as we address accelerating climate change. 

And — and we’re renewing our commitment to ensure that our region is
governed by international law, committed to upholding universal values,
and free from coercion.  

We’ve got a big agenda ahead of us, gentlemen, as you well know, but I’m
optimistic about our prospects.  The Quad is going to be a vital arena
for cooperation in the Indo-Pacific.  And I look forward to working
closely with — with all of you in the coming years. 

And now, Prime Minister Modi, I’m kicking it over to you.  And again,
it’s great to see you.

PRIME MINISTER MODI:  Your Excellencies — President Biden, Prime
Minister Morrison, and Prime Minister Suga — it is good to be among the
friends.  I thank President Biden for this initiative. 

Excellencies, we are united by our democratic values and our commitment
to a free, open, and inclusive Indo-Pacific.  Our agenda today —
covering areas like vaccines, climate change, and emerging technologies
— make the Quad a force for global good.

I see this positive vision as an extension of India’s ancient philosophy
of *Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam*, which regards the world as one family.  We
will work together, closer than ever before, for advancing our shared
values and promoting a secure, stable, and prosperous Indo-Pacific. 

Today’s summit meeting shows that Quad had come of age.  It will now
remain an important pillar of stability in the region.  Thank you.

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Thank you.

SECRETARY BLINKEN:  Prime Minister Morrison.

PRIME MINISTER MORRISON:  President Biden, for this wonderful initiative
and bringing us together.  And my fellow prime ministers, it’s great to
see you.  Namaste.  Good morning.  Konnichiwa.  And from Australia,
g’day.

As we begin a new day here in Australia, it’s not yet dawn.  But we join
together as Quad leaders of nations to welcome what I think will be a
new dawn in the Indo-Pacific through our gathering. 

History teaches us that when nations engage together in a partnership of
strategic trust, of common hope, and shared values, much can be
achieved.  When the world emerged from the Great War and our last global
pandemic a century ago, it soon found a Great Depression and another
global conflict that unleashed a poverty and a devastation that was
unthinkable. 

As we emerge from this global pandemic and the global recession, let us
together create a different future.  It is the Indo-Pacific that will
now shape the destiny of our world in the 21st century. 

As four leaders of great, liberal democracies in the Indo-Pacific, let
our partnership be the enabler of peace, stability, and prosperity, and
to do so inclusively with the many nations of our region to share in
their vision, as expressed through ASEAN, for an open, inclusive —
inclusive, and resilient Indo-Pacific; to respect and support their
sovereignty, independence, and security by upholding our values and
supporting international law; and to address the many challenges we
face, from COVID to climate change.

Know, friends, that Australia, while looking to our friends in all of
these tasks, we never leave it to our friends.  We’ll do our share of
the heavy lifting to lighten the burden for us all. 

I’m delighted to now hand over to my good friend, Yoshi, Prime Minister
Suga.

PRIME MINISTER SUGA:  (As interpreted.)  Joe, Mr. Modi, and ScoMo: It is
a great honor to realize the Japan-Australia-India-U.S. leaders’ summit
with all of you — working together to realize a free and open
Indo-Pacific.

Starting with the response to the tsunami disaster that we just saw on
the video, the Quad four countries transformed into a forum for
diplomatic dialogue in 2007. 

Since then, after overcoming some difficult circumstances from around
2017, we gained a fresh momentum.  In October, last year, we reached the
stage of holding the foreign ministers meeting here in Tokyo.  Less than
half a year since then, we are now holding this first leaders’ summit. 
And I do feel emotional about the development.  I thank Joe for your
initiative.

With the four countries working together, I wish to firmly advance our
cooperation to realize a free and open Indo-Pacific and to make visible
and tangible contribution to the peace, stability, and prosperity of the
region, including overcoming COVID-19. 

Yesterday was the 10th anniversary of the Great East Japan Earthquake. 
We received massive support from the U.S., Australia, and India in our
response to the disaster.  Joe visited the affected areas soon after the
disaster.  And I thank you once again. 

I look forward to a fruitful discussion today. 

8:44 A.M. EST
