---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-03-23'
modified_time: 2021-03-23 18:26:06-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/03/23/remarks-by-president-biden-during-tour-of-radiation-oncology-department/
published_time: 2021-03-23 18:45:00-04:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden During Tour of Radiation Oncology\_Department"
---
 
Arthur G. James Cancer Hospital and Richard J. Solove Research
Institute  
Columbus, Ohio

3:49 P.M. EDT  
  
Q    Sir, is it comforting or is it hopeful or more painful for you to
hear about cancer developments like this?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  It’s — it’s mostly hopeful because I don’t want to see
anybody go through what my son went through.  
  
One of the things you should be aware of: There are probably more
soldiers, sailors, airmen, Marines coming home with brain cancers than
any time in American history because of exposure.  Some of you have read
about the burn pits.  There’s a lot of research that still has to be
done to determine whether or not exposure to these toxins in the air
have something to do with it.  Also, you have an awful lot of these IEDs
have caused brain trauma in other ways as well.   
  
So, it really is something that I think is going to encourage us to
spend a lot more time in the government focusing on.  A little bit like,
you know, what used to have to — with Agent Orange: You’d have to prove
that, even though you were drenched in it and it rained on you, that
whatever your problem was was a consequence of that.  It was very hard
to prove.  I finally got a bill passed, as a senator, saying, if you
were drenched, you’re automatically assumed — whatever your problem is,
related to that.   
  
Same thing now with an IED.  If you were near a concussion, you have a
problem with — it’s assumed the government has responsibility for it. 
And — but there’s a lot going on, and the Doc could tell you more.   
  
But one of things that really excites me, Doc, is the idea that we’re
moving into potential immunotherapy initiatives that — what they did
with Beau, they injected an adenovirus into the brain.   
  
DR. ARNAB:  Exactly.  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  And it — they were — they were giddy, initially, at all
of the — the human body coming in to eat up the virus, but it just kept
going.  And because there had been some damage from radiation on a blood
vessel, it — things got — it didn’t work.   
  
But there’s real hope for people.  There’s real hope.  
  
DR. ARNAB:  And, Mr. President, with this FLASH therapy, there’s more —
much more synergism with immune therapy than with conventional radiation
—  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Yeah, I agree with that.  
  
DR. ARNAB:  — we’re finding.  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Not that I agree.  I don’t mean like — as if I — matters
what I agree on.   
  
DR. ARNAB:  And our Proton Center, which will be — will treat our first
patient 2023 — will have FLASH capabilities.  So it will combine the
benefits of protons, FLASH, and immunotherapy together.  So —  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Explain the difference between a proton and radiation
going —  
  
DR. ARNAB:  Yes, great question.  Great question.   
  
THE PRESIDENT:  It’s really important.  
  
DR. ARNAB:  Yes.  So with conventional radiation therapy, like this unit
right behind you, sir, this produces high-level X-ray energy radiation
that’s penetrative.  It goes through normal tissues as well as tumor. 
So everything is treated: normal tissues and tumor together.   
  
With proton therapy, the dose stops right at the tumor so you’re not
treating normal tissues.  So it’s a major advancement in the treatment
of cancers.  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Treating normal tissue sometimes is a very bad thing. 
Just — it also — it can destroy a normal tissue.  It can destroy the
cancer — hit that — but it goes through the cancer and destroys whatever
is beyond it.  Not just in the brain, but wherever it —  
  
And so that’s why I — I think some of the — a few of the Nobel laureates
on my cancer facility are — would argue that we should get — we should
start to focus on protons.   
  
DR. ARNAB:  Yes.   
  
THE PRESIDENT:  And because it doesn’t have the same application, but it
does less damage when it occurs — when there is damage done.  
  
And — but it really is one of my regrets of becoming President: I had to
give up the Biden Cancer Initiative because I couldn’t raise any money
for it.  But we proposed — there’s literally six Nobel laureates on the
board.  A group — a group of people that are like the Doc.  I tried — I
almost called you to ask for you — it’s a long story but —  
  
And — but it is something that there’s a lot — these guys are on the
edge of so many things.  Think about it: Jimmy Carter was declared
basically gone five times.  Now, he’s in trouble now, but it’s amazing
that — you know, it’s a little bit like — it’s why you should never give
up hope.  When the breakthrough comes, it just comes through.  Not
planned — it’s just, “Woah, we got it.”  
  
Anyway.  I’m talking too much.  
  
Q    Mr. President, do you believe you have the political capital to
make changes on gun measures right now?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  I hope so.  I don’t know.  I haven’t done any counting
yet.   
  
3:54 P.M. EDT
