---
category: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-03-03'
modified_time: 2021-03-03 19:13:13-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/03/03/remarks-by-president-biden-at-the-house-democratic-caucus-virtual-issues-conference/
published_time: 2021-03-03 19:30:00-05:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at the House Democratic Caucus Virtual Issues\_\
  Conference"
---
 
5:20 P.M. EST

THE PRESIDENT:  Nancy, I love you.  There’s no one I’d rather work with
than you.  We’ve been friends a long time — and your whole family, your
daughters.  And it — it’s just been a great relationship. 

And I think that Angie was absolutely correct that you’ve been the
consummate leader.  I’ve been here a long time, and there’s been no
Speaker that’s been your equal, although there have been some great
Speakers.  And you just have a special way about you, Nancy. 

And you’re also very, very — which is important — you’re kind, but
you’re tough.  And you know what’s right, and you stick by it.  And I
admire the devil out of you.

And I want to thank somebody I campaigned for — he was leading by 30
points until I campaigned for him, but he still won anyway — Hakeem
Jeffries — and Vice Chair Aguilar for putting this conference together
and including me.

And I want to thank the entire leadership team and all your committee
chairs for taking an important step in the American Rescue Plan last
week.

You all showed, at a time when the American people are depending on us —
and they are desperately in need of us — that a diverse caucus isn’t a
divided caucus. 

Congressman Clyburn, I also want to note that it was almost exactly a
year ago today that you delivered the endorsement to me in South
Carolina that meant so much to me and my campaign.  And you’re a great
friend.  And on the night of the — that primary, America had confirmed
only fewer than 100 COVID cases.  That’s just a year ago.

Breonna Taylor and George Floyd were still alive.  California had yet to
suffer the worst — the wor- — what would become the worst fire season in
recorded history.  And there’d been no violent insurrection on Capitol
Hill.  And I could go on.  A lot’s changed. 

My point is this: In the year that has passed, all the challenge I spoke
about that night — jobs and the economy; affordable, accessible
healthcare; climate change; and the need to root out institutional
racism; the need for unity and healing — have all become urgent —
urgent, urgent, urgent — especially in light of the pandemic that has
taken the lives — well, as of yesterday — 518,720, I believe it was,
Americans — fellow Americans who have lost their lives. 

And more than 400,000 businesses — mostly small business, many minority
businesses — have been shuttered; cost millions of jobs.  1.3 million
public sector — education, nurses, cops, firefighters, essential workers
— have lost their jobs.

So my message today is really simple: You — you, this caucus, have shown
the American people the difference Democratic leadership and what we
just had.  Leadership makes a difference.  And you’re continuing to do
so. 

For example, I know that this week you’re working on the “Protect Our
Democracy” reforms, as well as the George Floyd Justice in Policing Act
— both of which I strongly support.  And I know that, in the past couple
of days, you’ve had briefings and conversations on immigration,
healthcare, foreign policy, climate crisis, and a lot more.  And as you
work on all of these, I urge you to continue to speak up and speak out
about the American Rescue Plan.

And here is why: You know, the confidence in the American — in the
American government has been plummeting since the late ‘60s to what it
is now.  And many of you remember that in 2009, we expended a lot of
political capital — Nancy and I and others — in the Recovery Act.  It
was — it was an act that had less than two-tenths of 1 percent waste or
fraud in it, according to the experts, and the economists told us we
literally saved America from a depression. 

But we didn’t adequately explain what we had done.  Barack was so
modest, he didn’t want to take, as he said, a “victory lap.”  I kept
saying, “Tell people what we did.”  He said, “We don’t have time.  I’m
not going to take a victory lap.”  And we paid a price for it,
ironically, for that humility.

And this is a case where every single piece of the bill you passed
addresses a genuine, desperate need for the American people.  Each piece
isn’t just defensible, it is urgent and overwhelmingly supported by the
people.  It’s good policy and it’s good politics.  And I’m not sure
we’ve ever seen something that is needed as badly as the American Rescue
Plan that was as broadly popular.

Nancy and I have passed some really important things in our careers, but
they haven’t always been — they’ve been badly needed, but they haven’t
been overwhelmingly popular. 

Sir, I’ve served in the Congress for 36 years before becoming Vice
President for 8.  We never had anything this urgent and this ambitious
that was so widely embraced.  Three-quarters of the American are
together with — on this.  Three quarters.  Nearly unanimous support
among Democrats; more than 70 percent of independents.  In poll after
poll, 60 percent of Republicans — I’ll say that again — 60 percent of
Republicans support what we’re doing.  A bipartisan group of more than
425 mayors, Democrat and Republican.  The AFL-CIO and business leaders.

Look, the show of unity we’re seeing is unprecedented.  It isn’t just
about the sum of the total package; Americans are in lockstep on each
major element of the plan, and they know what they are.  They support
what we’re doing on vaccines.

Look at the progress we’ve made with your help.  We’ve been able to move
us to the point where we had very little supply, to we will have enough
vaccine because of the work we’ve done with your help — enough vaccine
by the end of May to be able to vaccinate every single adult in
America.  It will not be done by then, but that supply will be there. 

They support what we’re doing on direct payments, on unemployment
insurance, on food and nutrition support, on keeping people in their
homes, on safely reopening our schools. 

Staying unified as we complete this process to pass the American Rescue
Plan won’t just make a difference in our fight against COVID-19 and our
efforts to rebuild the economy, it will also show the American people
we’re capable of coming together for what matters most to them.  They’ve
lost faith in government; this is a time to reestablish that faith.  And
the reason why they should have faith is because we’re doing the right
thing.  It’s a show of strength and a first step forward to restoring
their faith in the capacity of government to have their backs.  And if
we deliver on this, it also builds momentum.  It builds real mome- —
enthusiasm as well. 

And I will make everything else we want to deliver — this will make
everything more possible to get it done.  That’s why starting off this
victory is so important, because it’s so consequential to their lives. 
And we know how much we have to do, but all starts — it all starts
here.  It starts by bringing this home — bringing home what you’ve done
all the way. 

And I know we’re all making some small compromises, but I want to thank
you.  I want to thank you for the work you’ve done.  I want to thank you
for the work we’re going to continue to do. 

I know parts of this — and everything else we seek to do — are not easy,
but people are going to remember how we showed up in this moment, how we
listened to them — to them — not special interests; to them — and how we
took action. 

I believe we’re going to come through this, and I think that people’s
memories will be long.  And if we continue to stay laser focused on
getting shots in people’s arms, responding to the economic crisis, it’s
going to open up a lot of hearts and a lot of doors for us tomorrow to
do the many more things we know we have to do. 

So I want to thank you all.  I really mean it from the bottom — I want
to thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you. 

And I’m happy to take questions if that’s what you — I’m supposed to do,
Nance.  Whatever you want me to do.                       

5:29 P.M. EST
