---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-03-24'
modified_time: 2021-03-24 17:24:25-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/03/24/remarks-by-president-biden-and-vice-president-harris-in-a-meeting-on-immigration/
published_time: 2021-03-24 17:24:24-04:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden and Vice President Harris in a Meeting on\_Immigration"
---
 
State Dining Room

2:14 P.M. EDT  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Well folks, today I have two announcements to make. 
One, is we’ve got ourselves a Secretary.  Xavier, welcome.  
  
SECRETARY BECERRA:  Thank you, Mr. President.  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Thanks for being willing to do this, and I really
appreciate.  And also today, I’ve — I said when we became a team and got
elected, that the Vice President was going to be the last person in the
room.  She didn’t realize that means she gets every assignment. 
(Laughs.)   
  
But the Vice President and I, and all of us here, have been working very
hard to — to pass the legislation that — that is going to beat this
virus, as well as get people back to work and change their prospects. 
And so, she’s traveling all over the country working that.  
  
In addition to that, there’s about five other major things she’s
handling, but I’ve asked her, the VP, today — because she’s the most
qualified person to do it — to lead our efforts with Mexico and the
Northern Triangle and the countries that help — are going to need help
in stemming the movement of so many folks, stemming the migration to our
southern border.  
  
And, you know, back when I was Vice President, I got a similar
assignment, but one of the things we did was we made sure that we got a
bipartisan agreement with Democrats and Republicans to provide over $700
million to the countries in the Northern Triangle to determine the best
way to keep people from coming is keep them from wanting to leave.  
  
And the reason why so many people were leaving, we learned, was that not
only gang violence and trafficking and cartels, but natural disasters,
hurricanes, floods, earthquakes.  And so it’s not like someone sits
around a hand-hewnen \[sic\] — hand-hewn table somewhere in Guatemala
and says, “I’ve got a great idea:  Let’s sell everything we have, give
the money to a coyote, have him take our kids or us to the border of
America, take us across, leave us in the desert.  We don’t speak the
language.  Won’t that be fun?”  
  
One of the ways we learned is that if you deal with the problems in
country, it benefits everyone.  It benefits us, it benefits the people,
and it grows the economies there.  
  
Unfortunately, the last administration eliminated that funding — did not
engage in it, did not use it — even though there was over $700 million
to help get this done.  We’re reinstituting that program.  And there are
— as I said, there are many factors as to why people leave in the first
place.   
  
But this is — this is the — the source of one of the reasons why we’ve
had such a — before we took office, in the midst of the last
administration’s somewhat draconian policies of separating children from
their parents, et cetera, what happened was that we — we found that
there were a serious spike in the number of people heading to the
southern border, even in the midst of that.  And as — as Alejandro can
tell you, is that was because there were serious natural disasters that
occurred in those countries.  They were coming north, and we did nothing
to do any — much about it.   
  
So this new surge we’re dealing with now started with the last
administration, but it’s our responsibility to deal with it humanely and
to — and to stop what’s happening.  
  
And so, this increase has been consequential, but the Vice President has
agreed — among the multiple other things that I have her leading — and I
appreciate it — agreed to lead our diplomatic effort and work with those
nations to accept re- — the returnees, and enhance migration enforcement
at their borders — at their borders.  
  
We’re already talking with Mexico about that; she’s already done that. 
We’re going to be dealing with a full team now that we have to be able
to deal with the problem here at home, but also to deal with it now in
terms of in country.   
  
And I can think of nobody who — who is better qualified to do this than
a former — this is a woman who ran the second-largest attorney general’s
office in America — after the U.S. — after the United States Attorney
General — in the state of California, and has done a great deal
upholding human rights, but also fighting organized crime in the
process.   
  
So it’s not her full responsibility and job, but she’s leading the
effort because I think the best thing to do is to put someone who, when
he or she speaks, they don’t have to wonder about is that where the
President is.  When she speaks, she speaks for me.  Doesn’t have to
check with me.  She knows what she’s doing, and I hope we can move this
along.   
  
But — so, Madam Vice President, thank you.  I gave you a tough job, and
you’re smiling, but there’s no one better capable of trying to organize
this for us.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Well, thank you, Mr. President and for having the
confidence in me.  And there’s no question that this is a challenging
situation.  As the President has said, there are many factors that lead
precedent to leave these countries.  And while we are clear that people
should not come to the border now, we also understand that we will
enforce the law and that we also — because we can chew gum and walk at
the same time — must address the root causes that — that cause people to
make the trek, as the President has described, to come here.   
  
And I look forward to engaging in diplomacy with government, with
private sector, with civil society, and — and the leaders of each in El
Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras to strengthen democracy and the rule
of law, and ensure shared prosperity in the region.   
  
We will collaborate with Mexico and other countries throughout the
Western hemisphere.  And as part of this effort, we expect that we will
have collaborative relationships to accomplish the goals the President
has and that we share.   
  
I also look forward to working with members of the Congress who, I
think, share our perspective on the need to address root causes for the
migration that we’ve been seeing.  And needless to say, the work will
not be easy, but it is important work.  It is work that we demand — and
the people of our countries, I believe, need — to help stem the tide
that we have seen.   
  
So thank you, Mr. President, for your confidence.  Thank you.  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Well, thank you for willing to do it.  Now we’re going
to get down to business here.  And, Ron, who am I turning this over
to?  
  
2:23 P.M. EDT
