---
date: '2022-05-04'
modified_time: 2022-05-04 17:02:57-04:00
published_time: 2022-05-04 16:58:48-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/05/04/a-proclamation-on-missing-or-murdered-indigenous-persons-awareness-day-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Missing Or Murdered Indigenous Persons Awareness Day,\_\
  2022"
---
 
For generations, Indigenous persons, including American Indians, Alaska
Natives and Native Hawaiians, have been forced to mourn a missing or
murdered loved one without the answers and support they deserve.  On
Missing or Murdered Indigenous Persons Awareness Day, we remember these
victims and their families, and commit to working with Tribal Nations
and Native communities to achieve justice and healing.

     The Federal Government has an obligation to ensure that cases of
missing or murdered persons are met with swift and effective action.  My
Administration is fully committed to investigating and resolving these
cases through a coordinated law enforcement response, as well as
intervention and prevention efforts.  We are also dedicated to
researching the underlying causes of this violence and to working with
Native communities to address them.

     The safety and well-being of all Native Americans continues to be a
top priority for my Administration.  That is why during my first year in
office, at the first White House Tribal Nations Summit, I issued an
Executive Order directing Federal agencies to improve public safety and
criminal justice for Native Americans and to address the crisis of
missing or murdered Indigenous people.  This includes implementing a
coordinated Federal law enforcement strategy that supports Tribal and
other local law enforcement efforts.  It also strengthens prevention,
early intervention, and survivor services while improving data
collection, analysis, and information sharing. 

     For far too long, justice for Indigenous communities has been
elusive.  We must improve our investigations to resolve missing or
murdered cases while supporting victims and their families.  Toward that
aim, the Department of Justice is working closely with Tribal Nations to
develop regionally appropriate guidelines for these
cases.  The Department of Justice has created a dedicated steering
committee to oversee and coordinate this critical work, including an
outreach services liaison for Federal criminal cases in Indian Country.

     This March, I signed into law the Violence Against Women Act
Reauthorization Act of 2022.  This important law expands special
criminal jurisdiction of Tribal courts to cover non-Native perpetrators
of sexual assault, child abuse, stalking, sex trafficking, and assaults
on Tribal law enforcement officers on Tribal lands and supports the
development of a pilot project to enhance access to safety for survivors
in Alaska Native villages.

     My Administration understands that Native people, particularly
survivors of violence, know best what their communities need to feel
safe.  That is why we must work hand in hand with Tribal partners
through each phase of the justice system to create solutions that are
victim-centered, trauma-informed, and culturally appropriate.

     Our Nation’s failure to address this ongoing tragedy not only
demeans the dignity of each Indigenous person who goes missing or is
murdered — it undermines the humanity of us all.  Today and every day,
we must continue to stand up for Indigenous people, and we must never
forget the thousands of unsolved cases that continue to cry out for
justice and healing.  As a Nation, we must answer that call and work
together to achieve the promise of America for all Americans.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim May
5, 2022, as Missing or Murdered Indigenous Persons Awareness Day.  I
call on all Americans and ask all levels of government to support Tribal
governments and Tribal communities’ efforts to increase awareness of the
issue of missing or murdered Indigenous persons through appropriate
programs and activities.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this fourth day of
May, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
