---
date: '2022-05-31'
published_time: 2022-05-31 13:17:39-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/05/31/a-proclamation-on-lesbian-gay-bisexual-transgender-queer-and-intersex-pride-month-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on\_Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer, And Intersex\
  \ Pride Month,\_2022"
---
 
    During Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer, and Intersex
(LGBTQI+) Pride Month, we reflect on the progress we have made as a
Nation in the fight for justice, inclusion, and equality while
reaffirming our commitment to do more to support LGBTQI+ rights at home
and abroad.  I often say that America can be defined by one word:
 possibilities.  This month, we celebrate generations of LGBTQI+ people
who have fought to make the possibilities of our Nation real for every
American. 

     Today, the rights of LGBTQI+ Americans are under relentless
attack.  Members of the LGBTQI+ community — especially people of color
and trans people — continue to face discrimination and cruel, persistent
efforts to undermine their human rights.  An onslaught of dangerous
anti-LGBTQI+ legislation has been introduced and passed in States across
the country, targeting transgender children and their parents and
interfering with their access to health care.  These unconscionable
attacks have left countless LGBTQI+ families in fear and pain.  All of
this compounded has been especially difficult on LGBTQI+ youth,
45 percent of whom seriously considered attempting suicide in the last
year — a devastating reality that our Nation must work urgently to
address. 

     This month, we remind the LGBTQI+ community that they are loved and
cherished.  My Administration sees you for who you are — deserving of
dignity, respect, and support.  As I said in my State of the Union
Address — especially to our younger transgender Americans — I will
always have your back as your President so that you can be yourself and
reach your God-given potential.  Today and every day, my Administration
stands with every LGBTQI+ American in the ongoing struggle against
intolerance, discrimination, and injustice.  We condemn the dangerous
State laws and bills that target LGBTQI+ youth.  And we remain steadfast
in our commitment to helping LGBTQI+ people in America and around the
world live free from violence.  

     Since my first day in office, I have taken historic action to
ensure that everyone — no matter who they are or whom they love — has an
equal place in our democracy.  I signed a landmark Executive Order
charging the Federal Government with preventing and combating
discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity.
 This includes non‑discrimination protections for LGBTQI+ Americans in
housing, health care, education, employment, credit and lending
services, and the criminal justice system.  My Administration has
expanded access to inclusive passports for transgender Americans and
instituted reforms to the traveler screening process at United States
airports.  We are supporting the open service for patriotic transgender
military members and providing better services for LGBTQI+ veterans.  I
am honored by the service of the first openly gay Cabinet Secretary and
the first transgender person confirmed by the Senate and to have been
able to establish the first White House Gender Policy Council.

     But there is more work to be done.  That is why I continue to call
on the Congress to pass the Equality Act, which will enshrine long
overdue civil rights protections and build a better future for all
LGBTQI+ Americans.  We must also fight for LGBTQI+ seniors so that they
can age with dignity.  And we must confront the disproportionate levels
of poverty, homelessness, and unemployment in the LGBTQI+ community.

     This month, we honor the resilience of LGBTQI+ people, who are
fighting to live authentically and freely.  We reaffirm our belief that
LGBTQI+ rights are human rights.  And we recommit to delivering
protections, safety, and equality to LGBTQI+ families so that everyone
can realize the full promise of America.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim June
2022 as Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer, and Intersex Pride
Month.  I call upon the people of the United States to recognize the
achievements of the LGBTQI+ community, to celebrate the great diversity
of the American people, and to wave their flags of pride high.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first
day of May, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.  
                              

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
