---
date: '2022-05-31'
published_time: 2022-05-31 15:47:51-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/05/31/a-proclamation-on-national-immigrant-heritage-month-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Immigrant Heritage Month,\_2022"
---
 
The United States is a Nation of immigrants — shaped by the courageous
people from around the world who leave their homes, lives, and loved
ones to seek refuge and opportunity on our shores.  Their sacrifices and
entrepreneurial spirit have contributed to the rich tapestry that has
defined the character of our country for generations.  Since our
founding, the very idea of America as a Nation of limitless
possibilities has been nurtured and advanced by immigrants.  During
National Immigrant Heritage Month, we honor the contributions of
immigrants to our great Nation and celebrate their profound impact.

     Immigrants fuel our economy and work in every profession, including
health care, public service, law, education, engineering, construction,
caregiving, manufacturing, service, agriculture, and countless other
industries.  They create new businesses, small and large, and generate
millions of jobs in America.  They are essential workers, providing
critical services during COVID-19 and serving on the frontlines of
research for vaccines and treatments.  Immigrants have also helped the
United States lead the world in science, technology, and innovation
while contributing to the arts, culture, and government.  They bring new
traditions, customs, and perspectives that keep American innovation
dynamic.

     My Administration is committed to ensuring that our immigration
system is accessible and humane.  I have called on the Congress to pass
long-overdue legislation to comprehensively reform our immigration
system.  Through multiple Executive Orders, I have also directed
agencies across the Federal Government to remove barriers that
improperly impede access to immigration benefits and to assure fair and
timely adjudication of those benefits.

     An important part of our commitment is recognizing that, too often,
immigrants face discrimination, xenophobia, and violence.  Hate and fear
are being given too much oxygen by those who pretend to love America but
do not understand America.  To confront the dangerous ideology of hate
requires caring about all people — including our Nation’s immigrants. 
After all, the fundamental promise of America is that all of us are
created equal and deserve to be treated equally throughout our lives.
 As a Nation, we have never fully lived up to that promise, but we have
never walked away from it either.  That is why my Administration will
continue to use every tool at our disposal to ensure that all immigrants
feel safe, valued, and respected.  

     The United States has long been a refuge for those seeking safe
haven.  In the wake of World War II, we opened our doors to hundreds of
thousands fleeing the devastation in Europe and the horrors of the
Holocaust.  After the Vietnam War and other conflicts in Southeast Asia,
we formed the United States Refugee Admissions Program, which has
welcomed more than 3 million people fleeing persecution and war since
1980.  More recently, we welcomed tens of thousands of Afghans and their
families who served honorably alongside American forces, and we are now
welcoming thousands of Ukrainians fleeing Russia’s invasion.  My
Administration continues to extend Temporary Protected Status for
vulnerable migrant populations throughout the world who cannot safely
return to their countries of origin.  Furthermore, my Administration is
committed to promoting naturalization and breaking down barriers to
United States citizenship for all eligible candidates — a promise that
honors our Nation’s values and makes us more secure and prosperous.

     When someone becomes a United States citizen, it gives them the
opportunity to fully participate in and contribute their unique talents
to our American story.  Each generation of immigrants has made our
Nation stronger and reaffirmed that diversity is — and always has been —
our greatest strength.  This National Immigrant Heritage Month, we honor
our immigrants and recommit to remaining a country worthy of their
dreams and aspirations, a Nation true to our enduring values, and a
democracy that forever stands as a beacon of hope to the world.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim June
2022 as National Immigrant Heritage Month.  I call upon the people of
the United States to learn more about the history of our Nation’s
diverse and varied immigrant communities and to observe this month with
appropriate programming and activities that remind us of the values of
diversity, equity, and inclusion.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first
day of May, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
