---
date: '2022-05-20'
modified_time: 2022-05-20 10:10:58-04:00
published_time: 2022-05-20 10:10:57-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/05/20/a-proclamation-on-national-maritime-day-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Maritime Day,\_2022"
---
 
From sea to shining sea, whether in still or raging waters, America has
always been a Nation of maritime travel.  Across our 25,000 miles of
waterways and over 360 commercial ports, the United States Merchant
Marine is integral to our Nation’s prosperity.  From helping move goods
throughout the supply chain to supporting our troops wherever they are
deployed, the Merchant Marine plays a vital role in the economic
security and defense of our country.  On National Maritime Day and every
day, we honor the Merchant Marines for their service and sacrifice and
acknowledge their crucial role in protecting our Nation’s security and
commerce.

Today, our Merchant Marine remains inextricably linked to our national
and economic security and competitiveness.  Merchant mariners’ legacy of
perseverance and dedication is carried on by today’s civilian mariners. 
As tyranny and violence again cause the tragic loss of innocent lives
and senseless destruction in Europe, our merchant mariners have answered
the call of duty by crewing vessels of our United States Ready Reserve,
moving vital military cargo to help the Ukrainian people in their
defense of freedom.

We also salute the remarkable efforts of our entire maritime industry
throughout the COVID-19 pandemic.  They put the well-being of the
American people first, risking their lives to ensure that essential
cargoes of medical supplies and personal protective equipment were
delivered to those in need across our Nation.

As we continue to build a better America, our Merchant Marine plays a
pivotal role in securing our coastal and inland waterways so that they
are open to trade.  No matter the hardship, mariners provide a smooth
passage for America’s critical domestic goods and serve as stewards of
our Nation’s trading gateways with the rest of the world.  My
Administration continues its unwavering support of the United States
Merchant Marine, as well as the Jones Act, which protects the integrity
of our domestic maritime industry, supports hundreds of thousands of
jobs, and contributes over $150 billion in economic benefits.

We also know that the future success of the vital maritime industry
depends on its ability to attract the talent of all Americans and
reflect the diversity of the Nation it serves.  That is why we are
resolved to continue the urgent work of advancing diversity, equity, and
inclusion in the ranks of the Merchant Marine and to end sexual assault,
sexual harassment, and bullying in the workplace.

Our Nation’s merchant mariners serve with honor and integrity each and
every day.  Today, we recognize their service and sacrifice and recommit
ourselves to fulfilling the promises and uplifting the values that they
continue to protect.

The Congress, by a joint resolution approved May 20, 1933, has
designated May 22 of each year as “National Maritime Day” to commemorate
the first transoceanic voyage by a steamship in 1819 by the S.S.
Savannah.  By this resolution, the Congress has authorized and requested
the President to issue annually a proclamation calling for its
appropriate observance.  I also request that all ships sailing under the
American flag dress ship on that day.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim May 22, 2022, as
National Maritime Day.  I call upon all Americans to observe this day
and to celebrate the United States Merchant Marine and maritime industry
with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twentieth day of
May, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
