---
date: '2022-05-27'
published_time: 2022-05-27 17:23:06-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/05/27/a-proclamation-adjusting-imports-of-steel-into-the-united-states-ukraine/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation: Adjusting Imports of Steel Into the United\_States\_(Ukraine)"
---
 
1.  On January 11, 2018, the Secretary of Commerce (Secretary)
transmitted to the President a report on the Secretary’s investigation
into the effect of imports of steel mill articles (steel articles) on
the national security of the United States under section 232 of the
Trade Expansion Act of 1962, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1862).  The Secretary
found and advised the President of his opinion that steel articles are
being imported into the United States in such quantities and under such
circumstances as to threaten to impair the national security of the
United States.

2.  In Proclamation 9705 of March 8, 2018 (Adjusting Imports of Steel
Into the United States), the President concurred in the Secretary’s
finding that steel articles, as defined in clause 1 of Proclamation
9705, as amended by clause 8 of Proclamation 9711 of March 22, 2018
(Adjusting Imports of Steel Into the United States), are being imported
into the United States in such quantities and under such circumstances
as to threaten to impair the national security of the United States, and
decided to adjust the imports of those steel articles by imposing a 25
percent ad valorem tariff on such articles imported from all countries
except Canada and Mexico.  The proclamation further stated that any
country with which we have a security relationship is welcome to discuss
with the United States alternative ways to address the threatened
impairment of the national security caused by imports from that country,
and noted that, should the United States and any such country arrive at
a satisfactory alternative means to address the threat to the national
security such that the President determines that imports from that
country no longer threaten to impair the national security, the
President may remove or modify the restriction on steel articles imports
from that country and, if necessary, adjust the tariff as it applies to
other countries, as the national security interests of the United States
require.

3.  The United States and Ukraine have developed a close security
relationship.  Ukraine has expressed its willingness to work with the
United States to address the global excess capacity for producing steel.
 Ukraine’s steel industry has been significantly disrupted by the
Russian Federation’s unjustified, unprovoked, unyielding, and
unconscionable war against Ukraine.  The significant disruption in
Ukraine’s steel production is expected to decrease the total amount of
steel produced by Ukraine as well as the amount of steel imported into
the United States from Ukraine, which in 2021 accounted for less than 1
percent of all steel imports into the United States.  At the same time,
the steel industry has been historically important to Ukraine, and both
the United States and Ukraine have an interest in maintaining that
industry as an economic lifeline while the country recovers.

4.  The United States and Ukraine have recently engaged in broad
security discussions.  The current disruption of Ukrainian steel
production has been part of those discussions, and the ongoing
discussion is anticipated to include alternative measures to prevent
imports of steel from Ukraine from threatening the national security of
the United States as Ukraine’s steel production recovers from the
significant disruption caused by the war.

5.  In light of the ongoing security discussions and significant
disruption of Ukraine’s ability to produce steel, I conclude that
Ukraine’s present situation presents a special case.  I have determined
to suspend the tariffs set forth in Proclamation 9705 for the import of
steel articles and derivative steel articles from Ukraine for 1 year. 
The Secretary shall monitor the situation in the domestic steel industry
and developments in Ukraine’s steel industry and inform me of any need
to terminate or extend this suspension.

6.  In light of my determination to adjust the tariff proclaimed in
Proclamation 9705 as applied to eligible steel articles and derivative
steel articles that are the product of Ukraine, I have considered
whether it is necessary and appropriate in light of our national
security interests to make any corresponding adjustments to such tariff
as it applies to products of other countries.  I have determined that it
is necessary and appropriate, at this time, to maintain the current
tariff level as it applies to products of other countries.

7.  Section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962, as amended,
authorizes the President to take action to adjust the imports of an
article and its derivatives that are being imported into the United
States in such quantities or under such circumstances as to threaten to
impair the national security.

8.  Section 604 of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended (19 U.S.C. 2483),
authorizes the President to embody in the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of
the United States (HTSUS) the substance of statutes affecting import
treatment, and actions thereunder, including the removal, modification,
continuance, or imposition of any rate of duty or other import
restriction.

Now, Therefore, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, including section 232 of the Trade
Expansion Act of 1962, as amended, section 301 of title 3, United States
Code, and section 604 of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended, do hereby
proclaim as follows:

(1)  Clause 2 of Proclamation 9705, as amended, is revised to read as
follows: 

“(2)(a)  In order to establish certain modifications to the duty rate on
imports of steel articles, subchapter III of chapter 99 of the HTSUS is
modified as provided in the Annex to this proclamation and any
subsequent proclamations regarding such steel articles.

\(b\)  Except as otherwise provided in this proclamation, or in notices
published pursuant to clause 3 of this proclamation, all steel articles
imports covered by heading 9903.80.01, in subchapter III of chapter 99
of the HTSUS, shall be subject to an additional 25 percent ad valorem
rate of duty with respect to goods entered for consumption, or withdrawn
from warehouse for consumption, as follows:  (i) on or after 12:01 a.m.
eastern daylight time on March 23, 2018, from all countries except
Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, Mexico, South Korea, and the
member countries of the European Union; (ii) on or after 12:01 a.m.
eastern daylight time on June 1, 2018, from all countries except
Argentina, Australia, Brazil, and South Korea; (iii) on or after 12:01
a.m. eastern daylight time on August 13, 2018, from all countries except
Argentina, Australia, Brazil, South Korea, and Turkey; (iv) on or after
12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on May 20, 2019, from all countries
except Argentina, Australia, Brazil, South Korea, and Turkey; (v) on or
after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on May 21, 2019, from all
countries except Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, Mexico, and South
Korea; (vi) on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern standard time on January 1,
2022, from all countries except Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada,
Mexico, and South Korea, and except the member countries of the European
Union through 11:59 p.m. eastern standard time on December 31, 2023, for
steel articles covered by headings 9903.80.65 through 9903.81.19,
inclusive; (vii) on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on April
1, 2022, from all countries except Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada,
Mexico, and South Korea, and except the member countries of the European
Union through 11:59 p.m. eastern standard time on December 31, 2023, for
steel articles covered by headings 9903.80.65 through 9903.81.19,
inclusive, and from Japan, for steel articles covered by headings
9903.81.25 through 9903.81.80, inclusive; and (viii) on or after 12:01
a.m. eastern daylight time on June 1, 2022, from all countries except
Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, Mexico, South Korea, and except
from Ukraine through 11:59 p.m. eastern daylight time on June 1, 2023,
and except the member countries of the European Union through 11:59 p.m.
eastern standard time on December 31, 2023, for steel articles covered
by headings 9903.80.65 through 9903.81.19, inclusive, and from Japan
through 11:59 p.m. eastern standard time on December 31, 2023, for steel
articles covered by headings 9903.81.25 through 9903.81.80, inclusive.
 Further, except as otherwise provided in notices published pursuant to
clause 3 of this proclamation, all steel articles imports from Turkey
covered by heading 9903.80.02, in subchapter III of chapter 99 of the
HTSUS, shall be subject to a 50 percent ad valorem rate of duty with
respect to goods entered for consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse
for consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on August
13, 2018, and prior to 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on May 21, 2019.
 All steel articles imports covered by heading 9903.80.61, in subchapter
III of chapter 99 of the HTSUS, shall be subject to the additional 25
percent ad valorem rate of duty established herein with respect to goods
entered for consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on
or after 12:01 a.m. eastern time on the date specified in a
determination by the Secretary granting relief.  These rates of duty,
which are in addition to any other duties, fees, exactions, and charges
applicable to such imported steel articles, shall apply to imports of
steel articles from each country as specified in the preceding three
sentences.”

(2)  The first two sentences of clause 1 of Proclamation 9980 of January
24, 2020 (Adjusting Imports of Derivative Aluminum Articles and
Derivative Steel Articles Into the United States), are revised to read
as follows:

“In order to establish increases in the duty rate on imports of certain
derivative articles, subchapter III of chapter 99 of the HTSUS is
modified as provided in Annex I and Annex II to this proclamation.
 Except as otherwise provided in this proclamation, all imports of
derivative aluminum articles specified in Annex I to this proclamation
shall be subject to an additional 10 percent ad valorem rate of duty,
and all imports of derivative steel articles specified in Annex II to
this proclamation shall be subject to an additional 25 percent
ad valorem rate of duty, with respect to goods entered for consumption,
or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, as follows:  (i) on or
after 12:01 a.m. eastern standard time on February 8, 2020, these rates
of duty, which are in addition to any other duties, fees, exactions, and
charges applicable to such imported derivative aluminum articles or
steel articles, shall apply to imports of derivative aluminum articles
described in Annex I to this proclamation from all countries except
Argentina, the Commonwealth of Australia (Australia), Canada, and the
United Mexican States (Mexico) and to imports of derivative steel
articles described in Annex II to this proclamation from all countries
except Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, Mexico, and South Korea;
(ii) on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern standard time on January 1, 2022,
these rates of duty, which are in addition to any other duties, fees,
exactions, and charges applicable to such imported derivative aluminum
articles or steel articles, shall apply to imports of derivative
aluminum articles described in Annex I to this proclamation from all
countries except Argentina, Australia, Canada, the member countries of
the European Union, and Mexico and to imports of derivative steel
articles described in Annex II to this proclamation from all countries
except Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, the member countries of the
European Union, Mexico, and South Korea; (iii) on or after 12:01 a.m.
eastern daylight time on April 1, 2022, these rates of duty, which are
in addition to any other duties, fees, exactions, and charges applicable
to such imported derivative aluminum articles or steel articles, shall
apply to imports of derivative aluminum articles described in Annex I to
this proclamation from all countries except Argentina, Australia,
Canada, the member countries of the European Union, and Mexico and to
imports of derivative steel articles described in Annex II to this
proclamation from all countries except Argentina, Australia, Brazil,
Canada, the member countries of the European Union, Japan, Mexico, and
South Korea; and (iv) on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on
June 1, 2022, these rates of duty, which are in addition to any other
duties, fees, exactions, and charges applicable to such imported
derivative aluminum articles or steel articles, shall apply to imports
of derivative aluminum articles described in Annex I to this
proclamation from all countries except Argentina, Australia, Canada, the
member countries of the European Union, and Mexico, and to imports of
derivative steel articles described in Annex II to this proclamation
from all countries except Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, the
member countries of the European Union, Japan, Mexico, and South Korea,
and except from Ukraine through 11:59 p.m. eastern daylight time on June
1, 2023.”  

\(3\)  Any imports of steel articles from Ukraine that were admitted
into a U.S. foreign trade zone under “privileged foreign status” as
defined in 19 CFR 146.41, prior to 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on
June 1, 2022, shall be subject upon entry for consumption made on or
after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on June 1, 2022, to the 25
percent rate of duty imposed by Proclamation 9705, as amended.

(4)  Any provision of previous proclamations and Executive Orders that
is inconsistent with the actions taken in this proclamation is
superseded to the extent of such inconsistency.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this

twenty-seventh day of May, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-two, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-sixth.

                                 JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
