---
date: '2022-05-31'
modified_time: 2022-05-31 14:18:28-04:00
published_time: 2022-05-31 14:18:27-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/05/31/a-proclamation-on-national-ocean-month-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Ocean Month,\_2022"
---
 
     From the air we breathe to the food we eat, our magnificent ocean
touches every aspect of our lives.  It helps regulate the climate,
supports millions of jobs, and serves as a place for exploration,
commerce, and recreation.  As it sustains and connects us, the ocean is
woven into the cultures of local and Indigenous coastal and island
communities.  During National Ocean Month, we celebrate the beauty and
bounty of our ocean and reaffirm our commitment to protecting and
conserving our marine environments for a sustainable future.

     Fifty years ago, our Nation enacted laws that created a robust
foundation for environmental protection:  the Clean Water Act, the
Coastal Zone Management Act, the Marine Mammal Protection Act, and the
National Marine Sanctuaries Act.  Through these laws, we have protected
our coastlines, safeguarded marine wildlife, sustained fisheries, and
improved water quality.  Today, the United States is a global leader in
protecting and using precious marine resources in a responsible and
sustainable way — but there is still more work to be done.

     Earlier this year, my Administration released a sobering report on
sea level rise caused by climate change.  Addressing this issue requires
collaboration and commitment.  Working with State, Tribal, Territorial,
and local partners, we will co-develop ocean-based climate solutions,
including the United States Ocean-Climate Action Plan, which will help
us mitigate and adapt to the effects of the climate crisis.  To guide
our understanding of the ocean, coasts, and climate change, we must also
invest in science and solutions that recognize and elevate Indigenous
and local knowledge.

     The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law is a critical step forward in
providing resources to enhance ocean and coastal observation, mapping,
and forecasting — tools that will greatly improve the resilience of our
coastal infrastructure and shorelines.  The Natural Capital Accounts and
National Nature Assessment I announced on Earth Day will also help us
understand the ocean’s value to our economy, health, climate, and
national security.  My Administration is developing a National Ocean
Plan to develop the ocean economy and create good-paying American jobs
while protecting vital marine ecosystems.  Toward that aim, we are
already deploying offshore wind energy and joining international
initiatives to manage the planet’s ocean equitably and sustainably.

     We are also working to restore coastal habitats and ecosystems with
nature-based solutions that protect coastal communities from flooding
and storms.  These investments go hand-in-hand with my Administration’s
America the Beautiful Initiative, which set a national goal to
voluntarily conserve and restore at least 30 percent of United States
lands and waters by 2030.

     In taking these steps, we recognize that access to our ocean and
its benefits have not always been equally distributed.  Communities of
color, Indigenous communities, and low-income communities have often
been shut out from ocean-related opportunities while shouldering
disproportionate climate burdens.  My Administration is committed to
delivering climate justice, expanding access to ocean opportunities, and
diversifying ocean workforces.

     During National Ocean Month, as we celebrate the beauty and power
of our ocean, let us remember our shared responsibility to protect and
preserve it.  Together, let us recommit to caring for our ocean and
enhancing its economic and ecological sustainability for generations to
come.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim June
2022 as National Ocean Month.  I call upon Americans to take action to
protect, conserve, and restore our ocean and coasts.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first
day of May, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
