---
date: '2022-05-06'
published_time: 2022-05-06 17:08:33-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/05/06/a-proclamation-on-national-womens-health-week-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Women\u2019s Health Week,\_2022"
---
 
During National Women’s Health Week, we recommit to ensuring the health
and well-being of women and girls across our Nation.  Central to this
mission is protecting women’s fundamental rights to make their own
choices and build their own future.  I am committed to defending women’s
rights, including their access to reproductive health care.  Roe* *has
been the law of the land for almost 50 years; basic fairness and the
stability of our law demand that it not be overturned.  In response to
the continued attack on abortion and reproductive rights across the
country, my Administration is exploring all the tools at our disposal to
strengthen and protect women’s access to critical reproductive health
care.  We will continue to work with the Congress to pass the Women’s
Health Protection Act, which will ensure that all women have access to
critical reproductive health care, no matter where they live.  

For every American, health care is a right, not a privilege, and gender
equity in health care is a top priority for my Administration.  That is
why we are building upon the Affordable Care Act (ACA) to improve the
health of all Americans — especially women.  Through the ACA, millions
of people are able to access health care.  In addition, women with
preexisting conditions cannot be denied coverage, and women can no
longer be charged more for health insurance simply because they are
women.  Last month, my Administration proposed the most significant
administrative action to improve the ACA by eliminating the “family
glitch,” which will save families hundreds of dollars a month and help
them afford family coverage. 

I am committed to ensuring that women also have access to the
life-saving preventive care screenings that so many Americans have
skipped or delayed because of the pandemic — including cholesterol,
blood pressure, and cancer screenings. 

Advancing health equity also requires improving maternal health
care.  America’s maternal mortality rates are among the highest in the
developed world, especially among Black and Native American women.  That
is why, through the American Rescue Plan, we have given States the
opportunity to provide 12 months of extended postpartum coverage to
pregnant women who are enrolled in Medicaid and the Children’s Health
Insurance Program.  By expanding access to maternal care and lowering
health care costs, we can drive down mortality rates and ensure women
can live full and healthy lives.  

As I mentioned in my State of the Union Address, it is also time for
America to make bolder investments to address our national mental health
crisis — a crisis that disproportionately impacts young women and girls,
who are twice as likely to be diagnosed with mental health conditions
like depression and anxiety.  My vision will broaden the pipeline of
behavioral health providers, integrate mental health and substance use
treatment into primary care, and expand access through more virtual care
options.  

As President, Vice President, and Senator, I have long been committed to
endinggender-based violence and trauma, which have lasting effects on
health outcomes for women, girls, and their families.  That is why I
first wrote the Violence Against Women Act in 1990 and worked with the
Congress to reauthorize it through 2027 to increase support, funding,
and resources for survivors and improve the health care system’s
response to domestic violence and sexual assault. 

We have achieved great progress, but there is still more work to do –-
including to defend reproductive rights, which are under unprecedented
attack, and to ensure we do not go backwards on women’s equality.  As we
celebrate National Women’s Health Week, let us recommit to ensuring
equal access to high-quality, affordable care for all women and girls
and to improving the health of our Nation. 

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim May 8 through May
14, 2022, as National Women’s Health Week.  During this week, I
encourage all Americans to join us in a collective effort to improve the
health of women and girls and promote health equity for all.  I
encourage all women and girls — especially those with underlying health
conditions — to prioritize their health and catch up on any missed
screenings, routine care, and vaccines. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this sixth day of May,
in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of the Independence
of the United States of America the two hundred and forty-sixth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
