---
date: '2022-05-13'
modified_time: 2022-05-13 18:52:00-04:00
published_time: 2022-05-13 18:51:59-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/05/13/a-proclamation-on-emergency-medical-services-week-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Emergency Medical Services Week,\_2022"
---
 
Every day, emergency medical service (EMS) providers put the needs of
their communities above their own as they respond to crises, treat
injuries, and save lives.  Their heroism has been on full display
throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, as resilient EMS workers across the
country have provided essential care to Americans.  This year’s
Emergency Medical Services Week theme, “Rising to the Challenge,” pays
tribute to the brave frontline professionals who work tirelessly to help
their fellow Americans get immediate medical attention in their hours of
greatest need.

     With compassion, determination, and skill, EMS providers embody the
best of our Nation — from paramedics, 911 dispatchers, and emergency
medical technicians to nurses, law enforcement officers, and
firefighters.  Collectively, they distributed COVID-19 vaccinations,
provided aid after medical emergencies and disasters, and eased our
suffering in countless ways.  The unwavering commitment of EMS providers
to public service often comes at the cost of their own physical
well-being, mental health, and precious time with loved ones.

     That is why my American Rescue Plan included billions of dollars to
support women and men who serve in EMS roles.  I have also made it a
priority to ensure that our State, local, Tribal, and territorial
partners have the resources they need to train and equip EMS providers
so they can respond to public health emergencies safely and effectively.

     During Emergency Medical Services Week, we share our appreciation
for the selfless EMS professionals who provide lifesaving services every
day and risk their lives each time they answer the call of service.  We
also honor the EMS providers who have made the ultimate sacrifice in the
line of duty to protect their fellow Americans.  Our Nation owes a
tremendous debt of gratitude to these heroes and their loved ones.  May
God bless our Nation’s EMS workers and their families.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim May
15 through May 21, 2022, as National Emergency Medical Services Week.  I
call upon public officials, doctors, nurses, paramedics, EMS providers,
and all the people of the United States to observe this week with
appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities to honor our brave EMS
workers and to pay tribute to the EMS providers who lost their lives in
the line of duty.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirteenth day
of May, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
