---
date: '2022-05-13'
modified_time: 2022-05-13 19:01:28-04:00
published_time: 2022-05-13 19:01:27-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/05/13/a-proclamation-on-world-trade-week-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on World Trade Week,\_2022"
---
 
American workers are the finest in the world, and my Administration
remains steadfast in our commitment to building a better America by
pursuing a trade agenda that puts workers first and helps foster a
fairer, more inclusive, more prosperous, and more resilient
Nation.  During World Trade Week, we highlight the importance of global
trade and the role it plays in raising the quality of life of American
families while strengthening our economy and our workforce.  

     There is no limit to what our Nation can achieve when we work
together, and I know that we can out-compete any country in the
world.  Winning the competition for the 21st century requires investing
in our country and our people here at home, and that is exactly what my
Administration is doing.  Last year, we saw an unprecedented revival of
American manufacturing and the pride that comes with stamping products
“Made in America.”  From automobiles and semiconductors to clean energy
technologies, companies are building here in America again; we added
over 350,000 manufacturing jobs to the economy in 2021 — the best year
for manufacturing jobs in nearly three decades.  Through the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law, we are making crucial investments in our Nation’s
infrastructure, including in our ports, highways, roads, airports, and
bridges, which American companies rely on to export goods.  Companies
have announced billions of dollars in new investments to produce and
manufacture more goods right here on American soil. 

     Not only are we building American products and services here at
home — we are selling them around the globe.  My Administration has
developed a comprehensive trade policy that increases and diversifies
the pool of American businesses engaging in international trade.  We
have set a bold goal to double the number of businesses receiving export
assistance from the Department of Commerce, with particular emphasis on
engaging with businesses in historically underserved
communities.  We have made it possible for small and medium enterprises
engaged in export-oriented manufacturing projects to benefit from
medium- and long-term loans and loan guarantees offered by the
Export-Import Bank of the United States.  

     My Administration continues to marshal a whole-of-government
approach to address issues that threaten our economic security and
prosperity — from an unprecedented pandemic and the climate crisis to
global conflict and geopolitical instability.  We are making investments
to strengthen our global supply chains even as we strengthen our
domestic supply chains in critical industries, and we are standing up to
bring an end to unfair foreign trade practices that harm American
workers, producers, and businesses.

     We are also deepening our crucial bilateral and multilateral
economic relationships with partners and allies to ensure a level
playing field for United States businesses and workers and build a more
stable, fair, and dependable international economic arena.  This entails
working together to enforce existing trade agreements while establishing
new and improved trade frameworks.  We are also recommitting the
United States to global multilateral institutions, including the World
Trade Organization, in pursuit of more durable, resilient, and
sustainable trade policies that deliver better results for American
workers and families.

     At the same time, we are resolving ongoing issues with our trading
partners and using trade as a tool to help address our common
challenges, including climate change and the threat of unfair
competition from non-market and authoritarian regimes.  We reached a
groundbreaking deal with the European Union that included a commitment
to negotiate the world’s first emission-based trade arrangement on steel
and aluminum trade.  We concluded a 17-year international commercial
aviation dispute that will support good-paying jobs here at home.  We
reached deals with the United Kingdom and Japan on steel and
aluminum.  We addressed environmental protections through the
United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement.  We are also using trade to
rebuild our alliances and meet shared security challenges, which
threaten our networks, our quality of life, and the strength of our
democracies.  We are ushering in a new era of transatlantic cooperation
between the United States and the European Union — including the U.S.-EU
Trade and Technology Council and Transatlantic Data Privacy Framework —
and developing an Indo-Pacific Economic Framework to strengthen our
economic and trade relationships with partners in the region.

     Now more than ever, we need our trade policies to deliver for
American workers and families.  With strong investments and resources —
and a bold strategy for inclusive and long-lasting economic prosperity —
American businesses and workers will continue to meet every challenge
and win the competition for the 21st century.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim May
15 through May 21, 2022, as World Trade Week.  I call upon all Americans
to observe this week and to celebrate with appropriate programs,
ceremonies, and activities.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirteenth day
of May, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
