---
date: '2022-05-05'
published_time: 2022-05-05 13:22:33-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/05/05/a-proclamation-on-military-spouse-appreciation-day-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Military Spouse Appreciation Day,\_2022"
---
 
Military spouses are the rock on which their families, our military
community, and our national security depend.  Though most do not wear a
uniform themselves, they serve and strengthen our Nation every day —
providing our brave troops with support, comfort, and love.  They build
communities of strength on bases around the world to care for our
military family, pitching in wherever they see a need that is unmet.  On
Military Spouse Appreciation Day, we recognize the nearly one million
military spouses and their vital contributions to our Nation.  We are
grateful for their selfless sacrifice and inspired by their strength,
fortitude, and courage.

Today, America’s military spouses are a constellation of diverse
individuals with unique backgrounds and the common attribute of uncommon
resilience.  Like their service members, they too represent the best of
who we are as Americans.  Military spouses know what it means to make
sacrifices in defense of our ideals and freedoms.  And they live with
the hardship of having their life partner deployed away from home —
juggling all the responsibilities of work and family while saying an
extra prayer every morning that their spouse returns home safely.

Even during the most demanding circumstances, military spouses continue
to serve, creating innovative solutions to meet the challenges we face
as a Nation.  Today, military spouses serve in dynamic leadership roles
across all sectors — using their own experiences to support the needs of
the communities around them.  With enthusiasm and an entrepreneurial
spirit, military spouses create businesses and support systems that
serve the needs of others.

The Biden family is a military family, and caring for our Nation’s
military spouses is something that Jill and I both deeply understand. 
While our Nation can never fully repay the debt we owe to our service
members and their families, caregivers, and survivors, it is our sacred
obligation to make sure that they receive the care and support they have
earned.  Through the First Lady’s Joining Forcesinitiative, my
Administration is strengthening support for military families in three
critical areas:  military spouse employment and entrepreneurship,
military child education, and the well-being of military families.  We
continue to seek new and better ways to do more to address the needs of
our military families, especially responding to the needs of military
spouses with resources and services that allow them to thrive in all
aspects of life.

On Military Spouse Appreciation Day and every day, we are grateful for
the extraordinary service and sacrifice of America’s military spouses. 
May we continue to lift their voices, invest in their talents, and
respond to their unique needs in ways that ease their challenges and
enable them to reach their goals and aspirations.  May God bless our
military families, caregivers, and survivors, and may God protect our
troops.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim May 6, 2022, as
Military Spouse Appreciation Day.  I call upon the people of the United
States to honor military spouses with appropriate ceremonies and
activities.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this fifth day of May,
in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of the Independence
of the United States of America the two hundred and forty-sixth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
