---
date: '2022-05-20'
published_time: 2022-05-20 09:55:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/05/20/a-proclamation-on-armed-forces-day-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Armed Forces Day,\_2022"
---
 
On Armed Forces Day, we share our unending appreciation for the proud
patriots who answer the call to serve, taking the sacred oath to defend
our Constitution.  The brave members of our Army, Navy, Air Force,
Marine Corps, Space Force, Coast Guard, and National Guard and Reserve
forces represent the best of our Nation.  Today and every day, we honor
their immeasurable service on behalf of our grateful Nation. 

  
On this special day of tribute, we recognize the sacrifices that our
service members and their families make on our behalf, and we recommit
to our solemn duty to support them as they protect us.  Our Nation has a
sacred obligation to properly equip and prepare our troops when we send
them in to harm’s way and to support them — both while they are serving
abroad and when they return home — as well as their families,
caregivers, and survivors.  We must meet this obligation. 

  
My Administration’s unity agenda focuses on key issues that bring
Americans together:  supporting our veterans, beating the opioid
epidemic, addressing our national mental health crisis, and ending
cancer as we know it.  Each of these issues impact our military
community, and each is essential to meeting our obligation to our
troops, their families, caregivers, and survivors.  Mental health issues
pose a real challenge to our service members and their families, and my
Administration will continue to strengthen the tools, resources, and
support for our military community so our brave service members, who
have answered the call to serve, can thrive.  This includes taking bold
action to reduce suicide among service members, veterans, and their
families.  

  
The success of our Armed Forces also rests on every member of our
military community feeling that their safety and ability to prosper is
prioritized as they defend our Nation.  That is why my Administration is
so focused on addressing the potential adverse consequences related to
toxic exposures or exposures to other environmental hazards during
deployment or in garrison.  

  
Safety for our troops also means addressing the scourge of sexual
harassment and sexual assault in our military.  We have already taken
important steps.  In December, I was proud to sign into law historic
military justice reforms as part of the 2022 National Defense
Authorization Act.  The Department of Defense is working to implement
these critical changes, alongside recommendations from the Independent
Review Commission on Sexual Assault in the Military for prevention,
climate and culture, and victim care and support.  Much work still lies
ahead to deliver the progress that our troops deserve, and this will
remain a top priority for my Administration.  

  
Our diversity is one of our greatest strengths as a Nation, and we will
continue to strive for our Armed Forces to reflect society at every
level within its ranks.  Ensuring equal opportunity and greater
inclusivity will bolster the strength of our military and make sure
every American knows they can succeed and thrive as a member of the
United States Armed Forces.  We are renewing our efforts to address the
recruitment, retention, and well-being of women in the military as well
as providing a path to service for other under-represented groups. 

  
As we look around the world today, we are reminded again that freedom
comes at great cost.  Throughout our history, brave Americans have
always stepped forward to defend our liberties — willing to pay the
price to keep our country safe.  Our Nation’s Armed Forces are the best
in the world.  And we know that it is not only the person who wears our
Nation’s uniform that serves. Their loved ones serve as well.  Today, we
also honor the families, caregivers, and survivors of our Armed Forces —
all those who sacrifice on our behalf and who give their all to support
the service members they stand behind.

On Armed Forces Day, we salute our brave service members, whose
dedication and sacrifice ensure that our Nation’s Armed Forces are
unmatched in strength, unity, and resilience.  They are the greatest
fighting force the world has ever known.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, and Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces of the United
States, continuing the precedent of my predecessors in office, do hereby
proclaim the third Saturday of each May as Armed Forces Day.

  
I direct the Secretary of Defense, on behalf of the Army, Navy, Air
Force, Marine Corps, Space Force, and the Secretary of Homeland Security
on behalf of the Coast Guard, to plan for appropriate observances each
year, with the Secretary of Defense responsible for soliciting the
participation and cooperation of civil authorities and private
citizens.  I invite the Governors of the States, the Commonwealth of
Puerto Rico, and other areas subject to the jurisdiction of the United
States to provide for the observance of Armed Forces Day within their
respective jurisdictions each year in an appropriate manner designed to
increase public understanding and appreciation of the Armed Forces of
the United States.  I also invite veterans, civic leaders, and other
organizations to join in the observance of Armed Forces Day each year.

  
Finally, I call upon all Americans to display the flag of the United
States at their homes and businesses on Armed Forces Day, and I urge
citizens to learn more about military service by attending and
participating in the local observances of the day.

  
Proclamation 10210 of May 14, 2021, is hereby superseded.

  
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twentieth day of
May, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
