---
date: '2022-05-25'
modified_time: 2022-05-25 17:50:23-04:00
published_time: 2022-05-25 17:50:22-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/05/25/executive-order-on-advancing-effective-accountable-policing-and-criminal-justice-practices-to-enhance-public-trust-and-public-safety/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Executive Order on Advancing Effective, Accountable Policing and Criminal\
  \ Justice Practices to Enhance Public Trust and Public\_Safety"
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, I hereby order as follows:

Section 1.  Policy.  Our criminal justice system must respect the
dignity and rights of all persons and adhere to our fundamental
obligation to ensure fair and impartial justice for all.  This is
imperative — not only to live up to our principles as a Nation, but also
to build secure, safe, and healthy communities.  Protecting public
safety requires close partnerships between law enforcement and the
communities it serves.  Public safety therefore depends on public trust,
and public trust in turn requires that our criminal justice system as a
whole embodies fair and equal treatment, transparency, and
accountability.

Law enforcement officers are often a person’s first point of contact
with our criminal justice system, and we depend on them to uphold these
principles while doing the demanding and often life-threatening work of
keeping us safe.  We expect them to help prevent and solve crimes and
frequently call upon them to respond to social problems outside their
expertise and beyond their intended role, diverting attention from their
critical public safety mission and increasing the risks of an already
dangerous job — which has led to the deaths of law enforcement officers
and civilians alike.  The vast majority of law enforcement officers do
these difficult jobs with honor and integrity, and they work diligently
to uphold the law and preserve the public’s trust.

Yet, there are places in America today, particularly in Black and Brown
communities and other communities of color, where the bonds of trust are
frayed or broken.  We have collectively mourned following law
enforcement encounters that have tragically ended in the loss of life.
 To heal as a Nation, we must acknowledge that those fatal encounters
have disparately impacted Black and Brown people and other people of
color.  The pain of the families of those who have been killed is
magnified when expectations for accountability go unmet, and the echoes
of their losses reverberate across generations.  More broadly, numerous
aspects of our criminal justice system are still shaped by race or
ethnicity.  It is time that we acknowledge the legacy of systemic racism
in our criminal justice system and work together to eliminate the racial
disparities that endure to this day.  Doing so serves all Americans.

Through this order, my Administration is taking a critical step in what
must be part of a larger effort to strengthen our democracy and advance
the principles of equality and dignity.  While we can make policing
safer and more effective by strengthening trust between law enforcement
officers and the communities they serve, we must also reform our broader
criminal justice system so that it protects and serves all people
equally.  To be clear, certain obstacles to lasting reform require
legislative solutions.  In particular, system-wide change requires
funding and support that only the Congress can authorize.  But my
Administration will use its full authority to take action, including
through the implementation of this order, to build and sustain fairness
and accountability throughout the criminal justice system. 

The need for such action could not be more urgent.  Since early 2020,
communities around the country have faced rising rates of violent crime,
requiring law enforcement engagement at a time when law enforcement
agencies are already confronting the challenges of staffing shortages
and low morale.  Strengthening community trust is more critical now than
ever, as a community’s cooperation with the police to report crimes and
assist investigations is essential for deterring violence and holding
perpetrators accountable.  Reinforcing the partnership between law
enforcement and communities is imperative for combating crime and
achieving lasting public safety.   

It is therefore the policy of my Administration to increase public trust
and enhance public safety and security by encouraging equitable and
community-oriented policing.  We must commit to new practices in law
enforcement recruitment, hiring, promotion, and retention, as well as
training, oversight, and accountability.  Insufficient resources,
including those dedicated to support officer wellness — needed more than
ever as officers confront rising crime and the effects of the
coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic — jeopardize the law
enforcement community’s ability to build and retain a highly qualified
and diverse professional workforce.  We must work together to ensure
that law enforcement agencies have the resources they need as well as
the capacity to attract, hire, and retain the best personnel, including
resources to institute screening mechanisms to identify unqualified
applicants and to support officers in meeting the stresses and
challenges of the job.  We must also ensure that law enforcement
agencies reflect the communities they serve, protect all community
members equally, and offer comprehensive training and development
opportunities to line officers and supervisors alike.     

Building trust between law enforcement agencies and the communities they
are sworn to protect and serve also requires accountability for
misconduct and transparency through data collection and public
reporting.  It requires proactive measures to prevent profiling based on
actual or perceived race, ethnicity, national origin, religion, sex
(including sexual orientation and gender identity), or disability,
including by ensuring that new law enforcement technologies do not
exacerbate disparities based on these characteristics.  It includes
ending discriminatory pretextual stops and offering support for
evidence-informed, innovative responses to people with substance use
disorders; people with mental health needs; veterans; people with
disabilities; vulnerable youth; people who are victims of domestic
violence, sexual assault, or trafficking; and people experiencing
homelessness or living in poverty.  It calls for improving and
clarifying standards for police activities such as the execution of
search warrants and the use of force. 

Many law enforcement agencies across the country — including at the
Federal, State, Tribal, local, and territorial level — have already
undertaken important efforts to modernize policing and make our broader
criminal justice system more effective and more equitable.  Their work
has inspired many of the provisions of this order.  These agencies — and
the officers who serve within them — deserve recognition for their
leadership and appreciation for setting a standard that others can
follow.  This order seeks to recognize these key reforms and implement
them consistently across Federal law enforcement agencies.  Through this
order, the Federal Government will also seek to provide State, Tribal,
local, and territorial law enforcement agencies with the guidance and
support they need to advance their own efforts to strengthen public
trust and improve public safety. 

It is also the policy of my Administration to ensure that conditions of
confinement are safe and humane, and that those who are incarcerated are
not subjected to unnecessary or excessive uses of force, are free from
prolonged segregation, and have access to quality health care, including
substance use disorder care and mental health care.  We must provide
people who are incarcerated with meaningful opportunities for
rehabilitation and the tools and support they need to transition
successfully back to society.  Individuals who have been involved in the
criminal justice system face many barriers in transitioning back into
society, including limited access to housing, public benefits, health
care, trauma-informed services and support, education, nutrition,
employment and occupational licensing, credit, the ballot, and other
critical opportunities.  Lowering barriers to reentry is essential to
reducing recidivism and reducing crime.

Finally, no one should be required to serve an excessive prison
sentence.  When the Congress passed the First Step Act of 2018 (Public
Law 115-391), it sought to relieve people from unfair and unduly harsh
sentences, including those driven by harsh mandatory minimums and the
unjust sentencing disparity between crack and powder cocaine offenses. 
My Administration will fully implement the First Step Act, including by
supporting sentencing reductions in appropriate cases and by allowing
eligible incarcerated people to participate in recidivism reduction
programming and earn time credits.

With these measures, together we can strengthen public safety and the
bonds of trust between law enforcement and the community and build a
criminal justice system that respects the dignity and equality of all in
America.

<u>Sec</u>. 2.  Sharing of Federal Best Practices with State, Tribal,
Local, and Territorial Law Enforcement Agencies to Enhance
Accountability.  (a)  *Independent Investigations of In-Custody Deaths*.
 The Attorney General shall issue guidance to State, Tribal, local, and
territorial law enforcement agencies (LEAs) regarding best practices for
conducting independent criminal investigations of deaths in custody that
may involve conduct by law enforcement or prison personnel.

\(b\)  *Improving Training for Investigations into Deprivation of Rights
Under Color of Law. * The Attorney General shall assess the steps
necessary to enhance the Department of Justice’s (DOJ’s) capacity to
investigate law enforcement deprivation of rights under color of law,
including through improving and increasing training of Federal law
enforcement officers, their supervisors, and Federal prosecutors on how
to investigate and prosecute cases involving the deprivation of rights
under color of law pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 242.  The Attorney General
shall also, as appropriate, provide guidance, technical assistance, and
training to State, Tribal, local, and territorial investigators and
prosecutors on best practices for investigating and prosecuting civil
rights violations under applicable law.

\(c\)  *Pattern or Practice Investigations.*  The Attorney General shall
consider ways in which the DOJ could strengthen communication with State
Attorneys General to help identify relevant data, complaints from the
public, and other information that may assist the DOJ’s investigations
of patterns or practices of misconduct by law enforcement officers,
including prosecutors, pursuant to 34 U.S.C. 12601 and other statutes.
 The Attorney General shall also develop training and technical
assistance for State, local, and territorial officials who have similar
investigatory authority. 

\(d\)  *Ensuring Timely Investigations.*  The heads of all Federal LEAs
shall assess whether any of their respective agency’s policies or
procedures cause unwarranted delay in investigations of Federal law
enforcement officers for incidents involving the use of deadly force or
deaths in custody, including delays in interagency jurisdictional
determinations and subject and witness interviews, and shall, without
abrogating any collective bargaining obligations, make changes as
appropriate to ensure the integrity and effectiveness of such
investigations.  Within 240 days of the date of this order, the Attorney
General, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the heads of other
executive departments and agencies (agencies) with law enforcement
authority shall report to the President what, if any, changes to their
respective policies or practices they have made.

\(e\)  *Ensuring Thorough Investigations*.  The Attorney General shall
instruct the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and all United States
Attorneys to coordinate closely with the internal oversight bodies of
Federal LEAs to ensure that, without abrogating any collective
bargaining obligations, for incidents involving the use of deadly force
or deaths in custody, initial investigative efforts (including evidence
collection and witness interviews) preserve the information required to
complete timely administrative investigations as required by the Death
in Custody Reporting Act of 2013 (Public Law 113-242) and agency
use-of-force guidelines.

(f)  *Ensuring Timely and Consistent Discipline.*  The heads of all
Federal LEAs shall assess whether any of their respective agency’s
policies or procedures cause unwarranted delay or inconsistent
application of discipline for incidents involving the use of deadly
force or deaths in custody, and shall, without abrogating any collective
bargaining obligations, make changes as appropriate.  Within 240 days of
the date of this order, the Attorney General, the Secretary of Homeland
Security, and the heads of other Federal LEAs shall report to the
President what, if any, changes to their respective policies or
practices they have made.

<u>Sec</u>. <u>3</u>.  <u>Strengthening Officer Recruitment, Hiring,
Promotion, and Retention Practices</u>.  (a)  Within 180 days of the
date of this order, the Director of the Office of Personnel Management
shall convene and chair an interagency working group to strengthen
Federal law enforcement recruitment, hiring, promotion, and retention
practices, with particular attention to promoting an inclusive, diverse,
and expert law enforcement workforce, culminating in an action plan to
be published within 365 days of the date of this order.  The interagency
working group shall consist of the heads of Federal LEAs and shall
consult with other stakeholders, such as law enforcement organizations.
 The interagency working group shall, to the extent possible, coordinate
on the development of a set of core policies and best practices to be
used across all Federal LEAs regarding recruitment, hiring, promotion,
and retention, while also identifying any agency-specific unique
recruitment, hiring, promotion, and retention challenges.  As part of
this process, the interagency working group shall:

(i)    assess existing policies and identify and share best practices
for recruitment and hiring, including by considering the merits and
feasibility of recruiting law enforcement officers who are
representative of the communities they are sworn to serve (including
recruits who live in or are from these communities) and by considering
the recommendations made in the Federal LEAs’ strategic plans required
under Executive Order 14035 of June 25, 2021 (Diversity, Equity,
Inclusion, and Accessibility in the Federal Workforce);

(ii)   assess existing policies and identify and share best practices
for promotion and retention, including by identifying ways to expand
mentorship and leadership development opportunities for law enforcement
officers;

(iii)  develop best practices for ensuring that performance evaluations
and promotion decisions for Federal law enforcement officers include an
assessment of the officer’s adherence to agency policies, and that
performance evaluations and promotion decisions for supervisors include
an assessment of the supervisor’s effectiveness in addressing misconduct
by officers they supervise; and 

(iv)   develop best practices for conducting background investigations
and implementing properly validated selection procedures, including
vetting mechanisms and ongoing employment screening, that, consistent
with the First Amendment and all applicable laws, help avoid the hiring
and retention of law enforcement officers who promote unlawful violence,
white supremacy, or other bias against persons based on race, ethnicity,
national origin, religion, sex (including sexual orientation and gender
identity), or disability.

(b)  Within 180 days of the publication of the interagency working
group’s action plan described in subsection (a) of this section, the
heads of Federal LEAs shall update and implement their policies and
protocols for recruiting, hiring, promotion, and retention, consistent
with the core policies and best practices identified and developed
pursuant to subsection (a) of this section.  Such policies and protocols
shall include mechanisms for Federal LEAs to regularly assess the
effectiveness of their recruitment, hiring, promotion, and retention
practices in accomplishing the goals of subsection (a) of this section.

\(c\)  The heads of Federal LEAs shall develop and implement protocols
for background investigations and screening mechanisms, consistent with
the best practices identified and developed pursuant to subsection (a)
of this section, for State, Tribal, local, and territorial law
enforcement participation in programs or activities over which Federal
agencies exercise control, such as joint task forces or international
training and technical assistance programs, including programs managed
by the Department of State and the Department of Justice.

\(d\)  The Attorney General shall develop guidance regarding best
practices for State, Tribal, local, and territorial LEAs seeking to
recruit, hire, promote, and retain highly qualified and service-oriented
officers.  In developing this guidance, the Attorney General shall
consult with State, Tribal, local, and territorial law enforcement, as
appropriate, and shall incorporate the best practices identified by the
interagency working group established pursuant to subsection (a) of this
section.

Sec. 4.  Supporting Officer Wellness.  (a)  Within 180 days of the date
of this order, the Attorney General shall, in coordination with the
Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS), develop and publish a
report on best practices to address law enforcement officer wellness,
including support for officers experiencing substance use disorders,
mental health issues, or trauma from their duties.  This report shall:  

(i)   consider the work undertaken already pursuant to the Law
Enforcement Mental Health and Wellness Act of 2017 (Public Law 115-113);
and

(ii)  identify existing and needed resources for supporting law
enforcement officer wellness. 

\(b\)  Upon publication of these best practices, the Attorney General
and the heads of all other Federal LEAs shall assess their own practices
and policies for Federal officer wellness and develop and implement
changes as appropriate.

\(c\)  The Attorney General shall, in coordination with the Secretary of
HHS and in consultation with multidisciplinary experts and stakeholders,
including the National Consortium on Preventing Law Enforcement Suicide
and other law enforcement organizations, conduct an assessment of
current efforts and available evidence on suicide prevention and present
to the President within 180 days of the date of this order
evidence-informed recommendations regarding the prevention of death by
suicide of law enforcement officers.  These recommendations shall also
identify methods to encourage submission of data from Federal, State,
Tribal, local, and territorial LEAs to the FBI’s Law Enforcement Suicide
Data Collection, in a manner that respects the privacy interests of law
enforcement officers and is consistent with applicable law.

<u>Sec</u>. <u>5</u>.  <u>Establishing a National Law Enforcement
Accountability Database</u>.  (a)  The Attorney General shall, within
240 days of the date of this order, establish the National Law
Enforcement Accountability Database (Accountability Database) as a
centralized repository of official records documenting instances of law
enforcement officer misconduct as well as commendations and awards.  The
Attorney General shall ensure that the establishment and administration
of the Accountability Database is consistent with the Privacy Act of
1974 and all other applicable laws, and respects appropriate due process
protections for law enforcement officers included in the Accountability
Database.  

\(b\)  The Attorney General, in consultation with the heads of other
agencies as appropriate, shall take the following actions with respect
to the Accountability Database established pursuant to subsection (a) of
this section:

(i)    include in the Accountability Database all available information
that the Attorney General deems necessary, appropriate, and consistent
with law and with considerations of victim confidentiality, concerning
misconduct by Federal law enforcement officers relevant to carrying out
their official duties;

(ii)   include in the Accountability Database, to the maximum extent
permitted by law, official records documenting officer misconduct,
including, as appropriate:  records of criminal convictions; suspension
of a law enforcement officer’s enforcement authorities, such as
de-certification; terminations; civil judgments, including amounts (if
publicly available), related to official duties; and resignations or
retirements while under investigation for serious misconduct or
sustained complaints or records of disciplinary action based on findings
of serious misconduct;   

(iii)  include in the Accountability Database records of officer
commendations and awards, as the Attorney General deems appropriate; and

(iv)   establish appropriate procedures to ensure that the records
stored in the Accountability Database are accurate, including by
providing officers with sufficient notice and access to their records,
as well as a full and fair opportunity to request amendment or removal
of any information about themselves from the Accountability Database on
the grounds that it is inaccurate or that it is predicated on an
official proceeding that lacked appropriate due process protections.

(c)  Requirements for the submission of information to the
Accountability Database are as follows:

(i)   the heads of Federal LEAs shall submit the information determined
appropriate for inclusion by the Attorney General under subsection (b)
of this section on a quarterly basis, beginning no later than 60 days
from the establishment of the Accountability Database; and  

(ii)  the Attorney General shall encourage State, Tribal, local, and
territorial LEAs to contribute to and use the Accountability Database in
a manner consistent with subsection (b)(i) of this section and as
permitted by law.  The Attorney General shall also issue appropriate
guidance and technical assistance to further this goal.

\(d\)  In establishing the Accountability Database under subsection (a)
of this section, the Attorney General shall:

\(i\)    make use of Federal records from DOJ databases to the maximum
extent permitted by law;

(ii)   make use of information held by other agencies or entities by
entering into agreements with the heads of other agencies or entities,
as necessary and appropriate;

(iii)  make use of publicly accessible and reliable sources of
information, such as court records, as necessary and appropriate; and

(iv)   make use of information submitted by State, Tribal, local, and
territorial LEAs, as necessary and appropriate.

(e)  The heads of Federal LEAs shall ensure that the Accountability
Database established pursuant to subsection (a) of this section is used,
as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, in the hiring, job
assignment, and promotion of law enforcement officers within Federal
LEAs, as well as in the screening of State, Tribal, local, and
territorial law enforcement officers who participate in programs or
activities over which Federal agencies exercise control, such as joint
task forces or international training and technical assistance programs,
including programs managed by the Department of State and the DOJ. 

(f)  The Attorney General shall establish procedures for the submission
of employment-related inquiries by Federal, State, Tribal, local, and
territorial LEAs, and for the provision, upon such a query, of relevant
information to the requestor as appropriate.  The Attorney General shall
develop guidance and provide technical assistance to encourage State,
Tribal, local, and territorial LEAs to integrate use of the
Accountability Database established pursuant to subsection (a) of this
section into their hiring decisions, consistent with applicable law.

\(g\)  The Attorney General shall ensure that all access to the
Accountability Database established pursuant to subsection (a) of this
section is consistent with applicable law, and shall also take the
following steps related to public access to the Accountability Database:

\(i\)   publish on at least an annual basis public reports that contain
anonymized data from the Accountability Database aggregated by law
enforcement agency and by any other factor determined appropriate by the
Attorney General, in a manner that does not jeopardize law enforcement
officer anonymity due to the size of the agency or other factors; and 

(ii)  assess the feasibility of what records from the Accountability
Database may be accessible to the public and the manner in which any
such records may be accessible by the public, taking into account the
critical need for public trust, transparency, and accountability, as
well as the duty to protect the safety, privacy, and due process rights
of law enforcement officers who may be identified in the Accountability
Database, including obligations under the Privacy Act of 1974 and any
other relevant legal obligations; protection of sensitive law
enforcement operations; and victim, witness, and source confidentiality.

(h)  The Attorney General shall determine whether additional legislation
or appropriation of funds is needed to achieve the full objectives of
this section.

Sec. 6.  Improving Use-of-Force Data Collection.  (a)  Within 180 days
of the date of this order, the heads of Federal LEAs shall submit data
on a monthly basis to the FBI National Use-of-Force Data Collection
(Use-of-Force Database), in accordance with the definitions and
categories set forth by the FBI.  To the extent not already collected,
such data shall include either all deaths of a person due to law
enforcement use of force (including deaths in custody incident to an
official use of force); all serious bodily injuries of a person due to
law enforcement use of force; all discharges of a firearm by law
enforcement at or in the direction of a person not otherwise resulting
in death or serious bodily injury; or, if applicable, a report for each
category that no qualifying incidents occurred and:

(i)    information about the incident, including date, time, and
location; the reason for initial contact; the offenses of which the
subject was suspected, if any; the charges filed against the suspect by
a prosecutor, if any; and the National Incident-Based Reporting System
(NIBRS) record or local incident number of the report;

(ii)   information about the subject of the use of force, including
demographic data by subcategory to the maximum extent possible; types of
force used against the subject; resulting injuries or death; and reason
for the use of force, including any threat or resistance from, or weapon
possessed by, the subject;

(iii)  information about the officers involved, including demographic
data by subcategory to the maximum extent possible; years of service in
law enforcement and employing agency at the time of the incident; and
resulting injuries or death; and

(iv)   such other information as the Attorney General deems appropriate.

\(b\)  The Attorney General, in consultation with the United States
Chief Technology Officer, shall work with State, Tribal, local, and
territorial LEAs to identify the obstacles to their participation in the
Use-of-Force Database; to reduce the administrative burden of reporting
by using existing data collection efforts and improving those LEAs’
experience; and to provide training and technical assistance to those
LEAs to encourage and facilitate their regular submission of
use-of-force information to the Use-of-Force Database.  

\(c\)  The Attorney General shall, in a manner that does not reveal the
identity of any victim or law enforcement officer, publish quarterly
data collected pursuant to subsection (a) of this section and make the
data available for research and statistical purposes, in accordance with
the standards of data privacy and integrity required by the Office of
Management and Budget (OMB).

\(d\)  The Attorney General shall also provide training and technical
assistance to encourage State, Tribal, local, and territorial LEAs to
submit information to the Law Enforcement Officers Killed and Assaulted
Data Collection program of the FBI’s Uniform Crime Reporting Program.

\(e\)  The Attorney General shall publish a report within 120 days of
the date of this order on the steps the DOJ has taken and plans to take
to fully implement the Death in Custody Reporting Act of 2013. 

              Sec. 7.  Banning Chokeholds and Carotid Restraints.  (a)
 The heads of Federal LEAs shall, as soon as practicable, but no later
than 90 days from the date of this order, ensure that their respective
agencies issue policies with requirements that are equivalent to, or
exceed, the requirements of the policy issued by the DOJ on September
13, 2021, which generally prohibits the use of chokeholds and carotid
restraints except where the use of deadly force is authorized by law. 

(b)  The head of every Federal LEA shall incorporate training consistent
with this section.

              <u>Sec</u>. <u>8</u>.  <u>Providing Federal Law
Enforcement Officers with Clear Guidance on Use-of-Force Standards</u>. 
(a)  The heads of Federal LEAs shall, as soon as practicable but no
later than 90 days from the date of this order, ensure that their
respective agencies issue policies with requirements that reflect
principles of valuing and preserving human life and that are equivalent
to, or exceed, the requirements of the policy issued by the DOJ on May
20, 2022, which establishes standards and obligations for the use of
force.

**             ** (b)  The heads of Federal LEAs shall, within 365 days
of the date of this order, incorporate annual, evidence-informed
training for their respective law enforcement officers that is
consistent with the DOJ’s use-of-force policy; implement early warning
systems or other risk management tools that enable supervisors to
identify problematic conduct and appropriate interventions to help
prevent avoidable uses of force; and ensure the use of effective
mechanisms for holding their law enforcement officers accountable for
violating the policies addressed in subsection (a) of this section,
consistent with sections 2(f) and 3(a)(iii) of this order.

              Sec. 9.  Providing Anti-Bias Training and Guidance.  (a)
 Within 180 days of the date of this order, the Director of the Office
of Personnel Management and the Attorney General shall develop an
evidence-informed training module for law enforcement officers on
implicit bias and avoiding improper profiling based on the actual or
perceived race, ethnicity, national origin, limited English proficiency,
religion, sex (including sexual orientation and gender identity), or
disability of individuals.

(b)  The heads of Federal LEAs shall, to the extent consistent with
applicable law, ensure that their law enforcement officers complete such
training annually.

(c)  The heads of Federal LEAs shall, to the extent consistent with
applicable law, establish that effective procedures are in place for
receiving, investigating, and responding meaningfully to complaints
alleging improper profiling or bias by Federal law enforcement officers.
 

(d)  Federal agencies that exercise control over joint task forces or
international training and technical assistance programs in which State,
Tribal, local, and territorial officers participate shall include
training on implicit bias and profiling as part of any training program
required by the Federal agency for officers participating in the task
force or program.

\(e\)  The Attorney General, in collaboration with the Secretary of
Homeland Security and the heads of other agencies as appropriate, shall
assess the implementation and effects of the DOJ’s December 2014
Guidance for Federal Law Enforcement Agencies Regarding the Use of Race,
Ethnicity, Gender, National Origin, Religion, Sexual Orientation, or
Gender Identity; consider whether this guidance should be updated; and
report to the President within 180 days of the date of this order as to
any changes to this guidance that have been made.

              <u>Sec</u>. <u>10</u>.  <u>Restricting No-Knock
Entries</u>.  (a)  The heads of Federal LEAs shall, as soon as
practicable, but no later than 60 days from the date of this order,
ensure that their respective agencies issue policies with requirements
that are equivalent to, or exceed, the requirements of the policy issued
by the DOJ on September 13, 2021, which limits the use of unannounced
entries, often referred to as “no-knock entries,” and provides guidance
to ensure the safe execution of announced entries.

\(b\)  The heads of Federal LEAs shall maintain records of no-knock
entries. 

\(c\)  The heads of Federal LEAs shall issue annual reports to the
President — and post the reports publicly — setting forth the number of
no-knock entries that occurred pursuant to judicial authorization; the
number of no-knock entries that occurred pursuant to exigent
circumstances; and disaggregated data by circumstances for no-knock
entries in which a law enforcement officer or other person was injured
in the course of a no-knock entry.

Sec. 11.  Assessing and Addressing the Effect on Communities of Use of
Force by Law Enforcement.  (a)  The Secretary of HHS shall, within 180
days of the date of this order, conduct a nationwide study of the
community effects of use of force by law enforcement officers (whether
lawful or unlawful) on physical, mental, and public health, including
any disparate impacts on communities of color, and shall publish a
public report including these findings.

\(b\)  The Attorney General, the Secretary of HHS, and the Director of
OMB shall, within 60 days of the completion of the report described in
subsection (a) of this section, provide a report to the President
outlining what resources are available and what additional resources may
be needed to provide widely and freely accessible mental health and
social support services for individuals and communities affected by
incidents of use of force by law enforcement officers.

(c)  The Attorney General, in collaboration with the heads of other
agencies as appropriate, shall issue guidance for Federal, State,
Tribal, local, and territorial LEAs on best practices for planning and
conducting law enforcement-community dialogues to improve relations and
communication between law enforcement and communities, particularly
following incidents involving use of deadly force.    

(d)  Within 180 days of the date of this order, the Attorney General, in
collaboration with the heads of other agencies as appropriate, shall
issue guidance for Federal, State, Tribal, local, and territorial LEAs,
or other entities responsible for providing official notification of
deaths in custody, on best practices to promote the timely and
appropriate notification of, and support to, family members or emergency
contacts of persons who die in correctional or LEA custody, including
deaths resulting from the use of force. 

\(e\)  After the issuance of the guidance described in subsection (d) of
this section, the heads of Federal LEAs shall assess and revise their
policies and procedures as necessary to accord with that guidance. 

Sec. 12.  Limiting the Transfer or Purchase of Certain Military
Equipment by Law Enforcement.  (a)  The Secretary of the Treasury, the
Secretary of Defense, the Attorney General, the Secretary of Homeland
Security, and the Administrator of General Services shall each review
all programs and authorities concerning property transfers to State,
Tribal, local, and territorial LEAs, or property purchases by State,
Tribal, local, and territorial LEAs either with Federal funds or from
Federal agencies or contractors, including existing transfer contracts
or grants.  Within 60 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of
the Treasury, the Secretary of Defense, the Attorney General, the
Secretary of Homeland Security, and the Administrator of General
Services shall determine whether, pursuant to this order, such transfers
or purchases can, consistent with applicable law, be prohibited beyond
existing restrictions and, if so, shall further prohibit any such
transfers or purchases, of the following property to the extent not
already prohibited:

(i)     firearms of .50 or greater caliber;

(ii)    ammunition of .50 or greater caliber;

(iii)   firearm silencers, as defined in 18 U.S.C. 921(a)(24);

(iv)    bayonets;

(v)     grenade launchers;

(vi)    grenades (including stun and flash-bang);

(vii)   explosives (except for explosives and percussion actuated
non-electric disruptors used for accredited bomb squads and explosive
detection canine training);

(viii)  any vehicles that do not have a commercial application,
including all tracked and armored vehicles, unless the LEA certifies
that the vehicle will be used exclusively for disaster-related
emergencies; active shooter scenarios; hostage or other search and
rescue operations; or anti-terrorism preparedness, protection,
prevention, response, recovery, or relief;

(ix)    weaponized drones and weapons systems covered by DOD Directive
3000.09 of November 21, 2012, as amended (Autonomy in Weapon Systems);

(x)     aircraft that are combat-configured or combat-coded, have no
established commercial flight application, or have no application for
disaster-related emergencies; active shooter scenarios; hostage or other
search and rescue operations; or anti-terrorism preparedness,
protection, prevention, response, recovery, or relief; and

(xi)    long-range acoustic devices that do not have a commercial
application. 

(b)  Federal agencies shall review and take all necessary action, as
appropriate and consistent with applicable law, to comply with and
implement the recommendations established by the former Law Enforcement
Equipment Working Group (LEEWG) pursuant to Executive Order 13688 of
January 16, 2015 (Federal Support for Local Law Enforcement Equipment
Acquisition), as contained in the LEEWG’s May 2015 Report
(Recommendations Pursuant to Executive Order 13688, Federal Support for
Local Law Enforcement Equipment Acquisition), and October 2016
Implementation Update (Recommendations Pursuant to Executive Order
13688, Federal Support for Local Law Enforcement Equipment
Acquisition).  To the extent that there is any inconsistency between
this order and either the LEEWG’s May 2015 Report or October 2016
Implementation Update, this order shall supersede those documents.

\(c\)  Prior to transferring any property included in the “controlled
equipment list” within the October 2016 Implementation Update referenced
in subsection (b) of this section, the agencies listed in subsection (a)
of this section shall take all necessary action, as appropriate and
consistent with applicable law, to ensure that the recipient State,
Tribal, local, or territorial LEA:

(i)    submits to that agency a description of how the recipient expects
to use the property and demonstrates that the property will be tracked
in an asset management system;

(ii)   certifies that if the recipient determines that the property is
surplus to its needs, the recipient will return the property;

(iii)  certifies that the recipient notified the local community of its
request for the property and translated the notification into
appropriate languages to inform individuals with limited English
proficiency, and certifies that the recipient notified the city council
or other local governing body of its intent to request the property and
that the request comports with all applicable approval requirements of
the local governing body; and

(iv)   agrees to return the property if the DOJ determines or a Federal,
State, Tribal, local, or territorial court enters a final judgment
finding that the LEA has engaged in a pattern or practice of civil
rights violations.

Sec. 13.  Ensuring Appropriate Use of Body-Worn Cameras and Advanced Law
Enforcement Technologies.  (a)  The heads of Federal LEAs shall take the
following actions with respect to body-worn camera (BWC) policies:

(i)    As soon as practicable, but no later than 90 days from the date
of this order, the heads of Federal LEAs shall ensure that their
respective agencies issue policies with requirements that are equivalent
to, or exceed, the requirements of the policy issued by the DOJ on June
7, 2021, requiring the heads of certain DOJ law enforcement components
to develop policies regarding the use of BWC recording equipment.  The
heads of Federal LEAs shall further identify the resources necessary to
fully implement such policies. 

(ii)   For Federal LEAs that regularly conduct patrols or routinely
engage with the public in response to emergency calls, the policies
issued under subsection (a)(i) of this section shall be designed to
ensure that cameras are worn and activated in all appropriate
circumstances, including during arrests and searches. 

(iii)  The heads of Federal LEAs shall ensure that all BWC policies
shall be publicly posted and shall be designed to promote transparency
and protect the privacy and civil rights of members of the public. 

\(b\)  Federal LEAs shall include within the policies developed pursuant
to subsection (a)(i) of this section protocols for expedited public
release of BWC video footage following incidents involving serious
bodily injury or deaths in custody, which shall be consistent with
applicable law, including the Privacy Act of 1974, and shall take into
account the need to promote transparency and accountability, the duty to
protect the privacy rights of persons depicted in the footage, and any
need to protect ongoing law enforcement operations. 

(c)  Within 365 days of the date of this order, the Attorney General, in
coordination with the Secretary of HHS and the Director of the Office of
Science and Technology Policy (OSTP), shall conduct a study that
assesses the advantages and disadvantages of officer review of BWC
footage prior to the completion of initial reports or interviews
concerning an incident involving use of force, including an assessment
of current scientific research regarding the effects of such review. 
Within 180 days of the completion of that study, the Attorney General,
in coordination with the Secretary of HHS, shall publish a report
detailing the findings of that study, and shall identify best practices
regarding law enforcement officer review of BWC footage.       

(d)  Within 180 days of the date of this order, the Attorney General
shall request the National Academy of Sciences (NAS), through its
National Research Council, to enter into a contract to:

(i)   conduct a study of facial recognition technology, other
technologies using biometric information, and predictive algorithms,
with a particular focus on the use of such technologies and algorithms
by law enforcement, that includes an assessment of how such technologies
and algorithms are used, and any privacy, civil rights, civil liberties,
accuracy, or disparate impact concerns raised by those technologies and
algorithms or their manner of use; and

(ii)  publish a report detailing the findings of that study, as well as
any recommendations for the use of or for restrictions on facial
recognition technologies, other technologies using biometric
information, and predictive algorithms by law enforcement. 

\(e\)  The Attorney General, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the
Director of OSTP shall jointly lead an interagency process regarding the
use by LEAs of facial recognition technology, other technologies using
biometric information, and predictive algorithms, as well as data
storage and access regarding such technologies, and shall:

(i)    ensure that the interagency process addresses safeguarding
privacy, civil rights, and civil liberties, and ensure that any use of
such technologies is regularly assessed for accuracy in the specific
deployment context; does not have a disparate impact on the basis of
race, ethnicity, national origin, religion, sex (including sexual
orientation and gender identity), or disability; and is consistent with
the policy announced in section 1 of this order;

\(ii\)   coordinate and consult with:

\(A\)  the NAS, including by incorporating and responding to the study
described in subsection (d)(i) of this section;

(B)  the Subcommittee on Artificial Intelligence and Law Enforcement
established by section 5104(e) of the National Artificial Intelligence
Initiative Act of 2020 (Division E of Public Law 116-283); and

(C)  law enforcement, civil rights, civil liberties, criminal defense,
and data privacy organizations; and 

(iii)  within 18 months of the date of this order, publish a report
that:

\(A\)  identifies best practices, specifically addressing the concerns
identified in subsection (e)(i) of this section;

(B)  describes any changes made to relevant policies of Federal LEAs;
and

(C)  recommends guidelines for Federal, State, Tribal, local, and
territorial LEAs, as well as technology vendors whose goods or services
are procured by the Federal Government, on the use of such technologies,
including electronic discovery obligations regarding the accuracy and
disparate impact of technologies employed in specific cases.

\(f\)  The heads of Federal LEAs shall review the conclusions of the
interagency process described in subsection (e) of this section and,
where appropriate, update each of their respective agency’s policies
regarding the use of facial recognition technology, other technologies
using biometric information, and predictive algorithms, as well as data
storage and access regarding such technologies.  

Sec. 14.  Promoting Comprehensive and Collaborative Responses to Persons
in Behavioral or Mental Health Crisis.  (a)  Within 180 days of the date
of this order, the Attorney General and the Secretary of HHS, in
coordination with the heads of other agencies and after consultation
with stakeholders, including service providers, nonprofit organizations,
and law enforcement organizations, as appropriate, shall assess and
issue guidance to State, Tribal, local, and territorial officials on
best practices for responding to calls and interacting with persons in
behavioral or mental health crisis or persons who have disabilities.  

(b)  The assessment made under subsection (a) of this section shall draw
on existing evidence and include consideration of co-responder models
that pair law enforcement with health or social work professionals;
alternative responder models, such as mobile crisis response teams for
appropriate situations; community-based crisis centers and the
facilitation of post-crisis support services, including supported
housing, assertive community treatment, and peer support services; the
risks associated with administering sedatives and pharmacological agents
such as ketamine outside of a hospital setting to subdue individuals in
behavioral or mental health crisis (including an assessment of whether
the decision to administer such agents should be made only by
individuals licensed to prescribe them); and the Federal resources,
including Medicaid, that can be used to implement the identified best
practices. 

Sec. 15.  Supporting Alternatives to Arrest and Incarceration and
Enhancing Reentry.  (a)  There is established a Federal Interagency
Alternatives and Reentry Committee (Committee), to be chaired by the
Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy. 

(b)  Committee members shall include:

(i)      the Secretary of the Treasury;

(ii)     the Attorney General;

(iii)    the Secretary of the Interior;

(iv)     the Secretary of Agriculture;

(v)      the Secretary of Commerce;

(vi)     the Secretary of Labor;

(vii)    the Secretary of HHS;

(viii)   the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development;

(ix)     the Secretary of Transportation;

(x)      the Secretary of Energy;

(xi)     the Secretary of Education;

(xii)    the Secretary of Veterans Affairs;

(xiii)   the Secretary of Homeland Security;

(xiv)    the Director of OMB;

(xv)     the Administrator of the Small Business Administration;

(xvi)    the Counsel to the President;

(xvii)   the Chief of Staff to the Vice President;

(xviii)  the Chair of the Council of Economic Advisers;

(xix)    the Director of the National Economic Council;

(xx)     the Director of OSTP;

(xxi)    the Director of National Drug Control Policy;

(xxii)   the Director of the Office of Personnel Management;

(xxiii)  the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation for National and
Community Service;

(xxiv)   the Executive Director of the Gender Policy Council; and

(xxv)    the heads of such other executive departments, agencies, and
offices as the Chair may designate or invite. 

\(c\)  The Committee shall consult and coordinate with the DOJ Reentry
Coordination Council, which was formed in compliance with the
requirement of the First Step Act that the Attorney General convene an
interagency effort to coordinate on Federal programs, policies, and
activities relating to the reentry of individuals returning from
incarceration to the community.  See sec. 505(a) of the First Step Act. 
The Committee may consult with other agencies; Government officials;
outside experts; interested persons; service providers; nonprofit
organizations; law enforcement organizations; and State, Tribal, local,
and territorial governments, as appropriate.

\(d\)  The Committee shall develop and coordinate implementation of an
evidence-informed strategic plan across the Federal Government within
200 days of the date of this order to advance the following goals, with
particular attention to reducing racial, ethnic, and other disparities
in the Nation’s criminal justice system:

(i)    safely reducing unnecessary criminal justice interactions,
including by advancing alternatives to arrest and incarceration;
supporting effective alternative responses to substance use disorders,
mental health needs, the needs of veterans and people with disabilities,
vulnerable youth, people who are victims of domestic violence, sexual
assault, or trafficking, and people experiencing homelessness or living
in poverty; expanding the availability of diversion and restorative
justice programs consistent with public safety; and recommending
effective means of addressing minor traffic and other public order
infractions to avoid unnecessarily taxing law enforcement resources;

(ii)   supporting rehabilitation during incarceration, such as through
educational opportunities, job training, medical and mental health care,
trauma-informed care, substance use disorder treatment and recovery
support, and continuity of contact with children and other family
members; and

(iii)  facilitating reentry into society of people with criminal
records, including by providing support to promote success after
incarceration; sealing or expunging criminal records, as appropriate;
and removing barriers to securing government-issued identification,
housing, employment, occupational licenses, education, health insurance
and health care, public benefits, access to transportation, and the
right to vote.

\(e\)  With respect to the goals described in subsections (d)(i) and
(d)(ii) of this section, the Committee’s strategic plan shall make
recommendations for State, Tribal, local, and territorial criminal
justice systems.  With respect to the goal described in subsection
(d)(iii) of this section, the Committee’s strategic plan shall make
recommendations for Federal, State, Tribal, local, and territorial
criminal justice systems, and shall be informed by the Attorney
General’s review conducted pursuant to subsection (f) of this section. 
Following the 200 days identified in subsection (d) of this section, all
agency participants shall continue to participate in, and provide
regular updates to, the Committee regarding their progress in achieving
the goals described in subsections (d)(i) through (iii) of this section.

\(f\)  Within 150 days of the date of this order, the Attorney General
shall submit a report to the President that provides a strategic plan to
advance the goals in subsections (d)(ii) and (d)(iii) of this section as
they relate to the Federal criminal justice system.  In developing that
strategic plan, the Attorney General shall, as appropriate, consult with
the heads of other relevant agencies to improve the Federal criminal
justice system, while safeguarding the DOJ’s independence and
prosecutorial discretion. 

\(g\)  The Committee and the Attorney General’s efforts pursuant to this
section may incorporate and build upon the report to the Congress issued
pursuant to section 505(b) of the First Step Act.  The Committee may
refer the consideration of specific topics to be separately considered
by the DOJ Reentry Coordination Council, with the approval of the
Attorney General.

\(h\)  Within 90 days of the date of this order and annually thereafter,
and after appropriate consultation with the Administrative Office of the
United States Courts, the United States Sentencing Commission, and the
Federal Defender Service, the Attorney General shall coordinate with the
DOJ Reentry Coordination Council and the DOJ Civil Rights Division to
publish a report on the following data, disaggregated by judicial
district:

\(i\)   the resources currently available to individuals on probation or
supervised release, and the additional resources necessary to ensure
that the employment, housing, educational, and reentry needs of
offenders are fulfilled; and

\(ii\)  the number of probationers and supervised releasees revoked,
modified, or reinstated for Grade A, B, and C violations, disaggregated
by demographic data and the mean and median sentence length for each
demographic category.

<u>Sec</u>. 16.  Supporting Safe Conditions in Prisons and Jails.  (a)
 For the duration of the HHS public health emergency declared with
respect to COVID-19, the Attorney General shall continue to implement
the core public health measures, as appropriate, of masking, distancing,
testing, and vaccination in Federal prisons.  In addition, the Attorney
General shall undertake, as appropriate, the following actions within
120 days of the date of this order:

(i)    updating Federal Bureau of Prisons (BOP) and United States
Marshals Service (USMS) procedures and protocols, in consultation with
the Secretary of HHS, as appropriate, to facilitate COVID-19 testing of
BOP staff and individuals in BOP custody who are asymptomatic or
symptomatic and do not have known, suspected, or reported exposure to
SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes COVID-19;

(ii)   updating BOP and USMS procedures and protocols, in consultation
with the Secretary of HHS, to identify alternatives consistent with
public health recommendations to the use of facility-wide lockdowns to
prevent the transmission of SARS-CoV-2, or to the use of restrictive
housing for detainees and prisoners who have tested positive for
SARS-CoV-2 or have known, suspected, or reported exposure;

(iii)  identifying the number of individuals who meet the eligibility
requirements under the CARES Act (Public Law 116-136), the First Step
Act, 18 U.S.C. 3582(c), 18 U.S.C. 3622, and 18 U.S.C. 3624, for release
as part of the DOJ’s efforts to mitigate the impact and spread of
COVID-19; and

(iv)   expanding the sharing and publication of BOP and USMS data, in
consultation with the Secretary of HHS, regarding vaccination, testing,
infections, and fatalities due to COVID-19 among staff, prisoners, and
detainees, in a manner that ensures the thoroughness and accuracy of the
data; protects privacy; and disaggregates the data by race, ethnicity,
age, sex, disability, and facility, after consulting with the White
House COVID-19 Response Team, HHS, and the Equitable Data Working Group
established in Executive Order 13985 of January 20, 2021 (Advancing
Racial Equity and Support for Underserved Communities Through the
Federal Government), as appropriate.

\(b\)  The Attorney General shall take the following actions relating to
other conditions of confinement in Federal detention facilities:

(i)   within 180 days of the date of this order, submit a report to the
President detailing steps the DOJ has taken, consistent with applicable
law, to ensure that restrictive housing in Federal detention facilities
is used rarely, applied fairly, and subject to reasonable constraints;
to ensure that individuals in DOJ custody are housed in the least
restrictive setting necessary for their safety and the safety of staff,
other prisoners and detainees, and the public; to house prisoners as
close to their families as practicable; and to ensure the DOJ’s full
implementation, at a minimum, of the Prison Rape Elimination Act of 2003
(Public Law 108-79) and the recommendations of the DOJ’s January 2016
Report and Recommendations Concerning the Use of Restrictive Housing;
and

(ii)  within 240 days of the date of this order, complete a
comprehensive review and transmit a report to the President identifying
any planned steps to address conditions of confinement, including steps
designed to improve the accessibility and quality of medical care
(including behavioral and mental health care), the specific needs of
women (including breast and cervical cancer screening, gynecological and
reproductive health care, and prenatal and postpartum care), the
specific needs of juveniles (including age-appropriate programming),
recovery support services (including substance use disorder treatment
and trauma-informed care), and the environmental conditions for all
individuals in BOP and USMS custody.

Sec. 17.  Advancing First Step Act Implementation.  (a)  The Attorney
General is reviewing and updating as appropriate DOJ regulations,
policies, and guidance in order to fully implement the provisions and
intent of the First Step Act, and shall continue to do so consistent
with the policy announced in section 1 of this order.  Within 180 days
of the date of this order and annually thereafter, the Attorney General
shall, in consultation with the Director of OMB, submit a report to the
President summarizing:

(i)    the rehabilitative purpose for each First Step Act expenditure
and proposal for the prior and current fiscal years, detailing the
number of available and proposed dedicated programming staff and
resources, the use of augmentation among BOP staff, and BOP staffing
levels at each facility;

\(ii\)   any additional funding necessary to fully implement the
rehabilitative purpose of the First Step Act, ensure dedicated
programming staff for all prisoners, and address staffing shortages in
all BOP facilities; and  

(iii)  the following information on the BOP’s risk assessment tool,
Prisoner Assessment Tool Targeting Estimated Risk and Needs (PATTERN):

(A)  the number of individuals released early due to Earned Time Credits
who were subsequently convicted and sentenced, as defined by
United States Sentencing Guideline sec. 4A1.1(a), in the year following
their release, disaggregated by their PATTERN risk level category of
“Minimum,” “Low,” “Medium,” or “High” at time of release;

\(B\)  an assessment of any disparate impact of PATTERN, including the
weighting of static and dynamic risk factors and of the statutorily
enumerated offenses and prior convictions that render individuals
ineligible to earn time credits; and

\(C\)  a strategic plan and timeline to improve PATTERN, including by
addressing any disparities and developing a needs-based assessment
system.

<u>Sec</u>. <u>18</u>.  <u>Collecting Comprehensive Criminal Justice
Statistics</u>.  (a)  The Attorney General, in consultation with the
United States Chief Data Scientist and the United States Chief
Statistician, shall review the status of State, Tribal, local, and
territorial LEAs transitioning from the Summary Reporting System to the
NIBRS in the FBI’s Uniform Crime Reporting Program, and shall submit a
report to the President within 120 days of the date of this order
summarizing the status of that transition for State, Tribal, local, and
territorial LEAs and including recommendations to maximize participation
in the NIBRS. 

(b)  Within 365 days of the date of this order, the Attorney General,
through the Director of the Bureau of Justice Statistics, and the
Director of OMB, through the United States Chief Statistician, shall
jointly submit a report to the President detailing what, if any, steps
the agencies will take:

(i)   to improve their current data collections, such as the National
Crime Victimization Survey and the Police-Public Contact Survey
Supplement, including how to ensure that such data collections are
undertaken and published annually, and that they include victimization
surveys that measure law enforcement use of force; serious bodily injury
or death that occurs in law enforcement encounters; public trust in law
enforcement; and actual or perceived bias by demographic subgroups
defined by race, ethnicity, and sex (including sexual orientation and
gender identity); and

(ii)  to improve the Law Enforcement Management and Administrative
Statistics Survey, with a focus on ensuring that such data collections
are undertaken and published regularly and measure law enforcement
workforce data, use of force, public trust in law enforcement, and
actual or perceived bias.

\(c\)  The Equitable Data Working Group established in Executive Order
13985 shall work with the National Science and Technology Council to
create a Working Group on Criminal Justice Statistics (Working Group),
which shall be composed of representatives of the Domestic Policy
Council and the office of the Counsel to the President, the DOJ, OMB,
and OSTP, and which shall, as appropriate, consult with representatives
of the Federal Defender Services; civil rights, civil liberties, data
privacy, and law enforcement organizations; and criminal justice data
scientists.

\(i\)   Within 365 days of the date of this order, the Working Group and
the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy shall issue a report
to the President that assesses current data collection, use, and data
transparency practices with respect to law enforcement activities,
including calls for service, searches, stops, frisks, seizures, arrests,
complaints, law enforcement demographics, and civil asset forfeiture.

(ii)  Within 365 days of the date of this order, the Working Group shall
assess practices and policies governing the acquisition, use, and
oversight of advanced surveillance and forensic technologies, including
commercial cyber intrusion tools, by Federal, State, Tribal, local, and
territorial law enforcement, and shall include in the report referenced
in subsection (c)(i) of this section recommendations based on this
assessment that promote equitable, transparent, accountable,
constitutional, and effective law enforcement practices.

Sec. 19.  Establishing Accreditation Standards.  (a)  The Attorney
General shall develop and implement methods to promote State, Tribal,
local, and territorial LEAs seeking accreditation by an authorized,
independent credentialing body, including by determining what
discretionary grants shall require that the LEA be accredited or be in
the process of obtaining accreditation.

\(b\)  Within 240 days of the date of this order, the Attorney General
shall develop and publish standards for determining whether an entity is
an authorized, independent credentialing body, including that the entity
requires policies that further the policies in sections 3, 4, and 7
through 10 of this order, and encourages participation in comprehensive
collection and use of police misconduct and use-of-force-data, such as
through the databases provided for in sections 5 and 6 of this order.
 In developing such standards, the Attorney General shall also consider
the recommendations of the Final Report of the President’s Task Force on
21st Century Policing issued in May 2015.  Pending the development of
such standards, the Attorney General shall maintain the current
requirements related to accreditation.   

\(c\)  The Attorney General, in formulating standards for accrediting
bodies, shall consult with professional accreditation organizations, law
enforcement organizations, civil rights and community-based
organizations, civilian oversight and accountability groups, and other
appropriate stakeholders.  The Attorney General’s standards shall ensure
that, in order to qualify as an authorized, independent credentialing
body, the accrediting entity must conduct independent assessments of an
LEA’s compliance with applicable standards as part of the accreditation
process and not rely on the LEA’s self-certification alone.

Sec. 20.  Supporting Safe and Effective Policing Through Grantmaking.
 (a)  Within 180 days of the date of this order, the Attorney General,
the Secretary of HHS, and the Secretary of Homeland Security shall
promptly review and exercise their authority, as appropriate and
consistent with applicable law, to award Federal discretionary grants in
a manner that supports and promotes the adoption of policies of this
order by State, Tribal, local, and territorial governments and LEAs.
 The Attorney General, the Secretary of HHS, and the Secretary of
Homeland Security shall also use other incentives outside of
grantmaking, such as training and technical assistance, as appropriate
and consistent with applicable law, to support State, Tribal, local, and
territorial governments and LEAs in adopting the policies in this
order. 

\(b\)  On September 15, 2021, the Associate Attorney General directed a
review of the DOJ’s implementation and administrative enforcement of
Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. 200d *et seq*., and
of the nondiscrimination provisions of the Omnibus Crime Control and
Safe Streets Act of 1968, 34 U.S.C. 10228, in connection with Federal
financial assistance the DOJ provides, to ensure that the DOJ is
providing sufficient oversight and accountability regarding the
activities of its federally funded recipients. 

\(i\)   Within 30 days of the date of this order, and consistent with
any other applicable guidance issued by the Attorney General, the head
of every other Federal agency that provides grants to State, local, and
territorial LEAs shall commence a similar review of its law
enforcement-related grantmaking operations and the activities of its
grant recipients. 

\(ii\)  Within 180 days of the date of this order, the head of each
Federal agency that provides grants to State, local, and territorial
LEAs shall submit to the Assistant Attorney General for the Civil Rights
Division of the DOJ, for review under Executive Order 12250 of November
2, 1980 (Leadership and Coordination of Nondiscrimination Laws), a
report of its review conducted pursuant to subsection (b)(i) of this
section, including its conclusions and recommendations.  Within 30 days
following such review and clearance from the DOJ pursuant to this
subsection, the head of each such agency shall make the conclusions of
its review publicly available, as appropriate.

Sec. 21.  Definitions.  For the purposes of this order:        (a)
 “Federal law enforcement agency” or “Federal LEA” means an
organizational unit or subunit of the executive branch that employs
officers who are authorized to make arrests and carry firearms, and that
is responsible for the prevention, detection, and investigation of crime
or the apprehension of alleged offenders.  The “heads of all Federal law
enforcement agencies” means the leaders of those units or subunits.

\(b\)  The term “sustained complaints or records of disciplinary action”
means an allegation of misconduct that is sustained through a completed
official proceeding, such as an internal affairs or department
disciplinary process.

\(c\)  The term “serious misconduct” means excessive force, bias,
discrimination, obstruction of justice, false reports, false statements
under oath, theft, or sexual misconduct.

Sec. 22.  Superseding Prior Orders.  (a)  Executive Order 13809 of
August 28, 2017 (Restoring State, Tribal, and Local Law Enforcement’s
Access to Life-Saving Equipment and Resources), is revoked.  All
agencies are directed, consistent with applicable law, to take prompt
action to rescind any rules, regulations, guidelines, or policies
implementing Executive Order 13809 that are inconsistent with the
provisions of this order.

\(b\)  Executive Order 13929 of June 16, 2020 (Safe Policing for Safe
Communities), is revoked.  All agencies are directed, consistent with
applicable law, to take prompt action to rescind any rules, regulations,
guidelines, or policies implementing Executive Order 13929 that are
inconsistent with the provisions of this order.

\(c\)  To the extent that there are other executive orders that may
conflict with or overlap with the provisions in this order, the
provisions of this order supersede any prior Executive Order on these
subjects.

Sec. 23.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:

\(i\)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or
agency, or the head thereof; or

\(ii\)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

\(b\)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.

\(c\)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

                                                                   JOSEPH
R. BIDEN JR.

THE WHITE HOUSE,

    May 25, 2022.
