---
date: '2022-05-31'
modified_time: 2022-05-31 14:26:04-04:00
published_time: 2022-05-31 14:26:03-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/05/31/a-proclamation-on-national-caribbean-american-heritage-month-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Caribbean-American Heritage Month,\_2022"
---
 
America’s strength has always been rooted in our diversity.  Since our
Nation’s founding, generation after generation of immigrants have helped
build this country, and the prosperity and opportunity that draw so many
immigrants to America would not be possible without the contributions
and legacies of Caribbean Americans.  Today, millions of Caribbean
Americans strengthen our country through their vibrant cultures,
traditions, languages, and values.  In recognition of National
Caribbean-American Heritage Month, we honor the immeasurable ways
Caribbean Americans have added to our American dream. 

This month, our Nation also celebrates the extraordinary leadership and
achievements of Vice President Kamala Harris, the first Black American
of Jamaican heritage to hold this high office.  I am also honored to
celebrate alongside brilliant and dedicated public servants of Caribbean
heritage — including Secretary of Education Miguel Cardona, Secretary of
Homeland Security Alejandro Mayorkas, and Domestic Policy Advisor Susan
Rice. 

Every day, we see the invaluable contributions Caribbean American
communities have made to our country.  Our Nation has seen the
persistence and character of generations of Caribbean Americans who have
fought for equity and equality despite continued discrimination and
hardship.  In addition, public servants like our Nation’s first Supreme
Court Justice of Puerto Rican descent, Sonia Sotomayor, and the late
General Colin Powell, the son of Jamaican immigrants and the first
Black Secretary of State, have made essential contributions to American
society and blazed new trails in service to the American people. 
Caribbean American entrepreneurs, scientists, medical professionals,
teachers, artists, police officers, athletes, and contributors in every
field have also left a lasting impact on our society. 

In spite of innumerable achievements and undeniable contributions, too
many Caribbean Americans continue to face systemic barriers to success. 
Caribbean Americans have been impacted by systemic racism and
disparities in opportunity.  My Administration has taken a
whole-of-government approach to advancing racial justice and equity in
order to begin healing those wounds and strengthening opportunity for
all.  We will continue to use every tool at our disposal to ensure that
every American — no matter who they are or where they come from — has
equal access to the American dream.

During this National Caribbean-American Heritage Month, we honor the
generations of Caribbean Americans who have built our Nation, shaped our
progress, and strengthened our national character.  

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim June 2022 as
National Caribbean-American Heritage Month.  I encourage all Americans
to join in celebrating the history, culture, and achievements of
Caribbean Americans with appropriate ceremonies and activities.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first day of
May, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
