---
date: '2022-05-20'
modified_time: 2022-05-20 10:10:54-04:00
published_time: 2022-05-20 09:44:30-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/05/20/a-proclamation-on-national-safe-boating-week-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Safe Boating Week,\_2022"
---
 
Exploring America’s magnificent lakes, rivers, ponds, bays, and oceans
has long been a favorite pastime for recreational boaters and a
memorable way to discover our Nation’s natural treasures.  As we prepare
for warmer weather, and as more Americans take to the water, National
Safe Boating Week reminds us of the importance of following responsible
and safe boating practices. 

So many Americans enjoy recreational boating, and most trips are safe. 
But many preventable accidents occur each year that result in tragic
deaths and injuries.  Observing boating safety precautions is essential
for all boaters, whether you are fishing, sailing, kayaking, or
motoring.

Safe boating practices start well before the hull breaks the water’s
surface.  Experts agree that taking a State-offered boating safety
course is one of the best ways to minimize accidents.  Most boating
fatalities involve boats whose operators — including paddlers in rentals
— did not have proper boating safety education.  I urge all Americans to
use the free assistance of the Coast Guard Auxiliary and America’s
Boating Club to ensure that your vessels are safe and that operators
have the tools they need to operate them safely.

I also call upon Americans to follow basic boating safety procedures and
to always wear a life jacket to protect yourself and your loved ones. 
In 2020, three-quarters of boating deaths were drownings, and nearly 7
out of every 8 drowning victims were not wearing a life jacket.  In
addition, avoid using alcohol or drugs when operating a boat.  Alcohol
continues to be a significant contributing factor in boating deaths, and
its effects are compounded by water movement, exposure to the elements,
and dynamic operating conditions.  Finally, wearing an engine cut-off
switch link will stop the boat’s engine in the event the operator falls
overboard, protecting everyone from vessel and propeller strikes.  By
adhering to safe boating practices, Americans will be safer on the water
while enjoying the boating season. 

This week, we also pay tribute to the United States Coast Guard and the
Federal, State, Tribal, and local partners who help save lives and
protect us from accidents on the water.  This season, let us recommit to
following basic boating safety procedures to prevent boating fatalities,
avoid property damage, and help boaters stay safe as they enjoy the
beauty of the open water. 

In recognition of the importance of safe boating practices, the
Congress, by joint resolution approved on June 4, 1958 (36 U.S.C. 131),
as amended, has authorized and requested the President to proclaim
annually the 7-day period before Memorial Day weekend as “National Safe
Boating Week.”

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, do hereby proclaim May 21 through May 27, 2022, as National
Safe Boating Week.  I encourage all Americans who participate in boating
activities to observe this occasion by learning more about safe boating
practices, and by taking advantage of boating safety education
opportunities.  I also encourage the Governors of the States and
Territories, and appropriate officials of all units of government, to
join me in encouraging boating safety in every community.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twentieth day of
May, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
