---
date: '2022-05-13'
published_time: 2022-05-13 19:16:21-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/05/13/a-proclamation-on-national-defense-transportation-day-and-national-transportation-week-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Defense Transportation Day And National Transportation\
  \ Week,\_2022"
---
 
In 1919, Army Lieutenant Colonel Dwight D. Eisenhower joined a
cross-country convoy of trucks and tanks to determine if our Nation had
the capacity to transport military assets.  He discovered a poorly
connected patchwork of roads that were unsafe for civilians and
unsuitable for our military needs.  When he became the President 34
years later, Dwight Eisenhower made connecting the Nation a top priority
by creating the unprecedented Interstate Highway System that linked the
country to coast-to-coast travel and commerce, revolutionized public
safety, and unleashed America’s unrivaled sense of discovery and
exploration.

Today, America’s transportation system weaves together distant
communities into one Nation, making our economy more competitive in the
global market and enabling our American way of life.  On National
Defense Transportation Day and during National Transportation Week, we
recognize the importance of our Nation’s infrastructure to our national
and economic security.

We also recognize that our transportation systems are not equally
accessible to all groups.  They link some neighborhoods while
undermining, dividing, and leaving others behind.  They create pollution
and contribute to climate change.  In addition, many of our roads,
bridges, waterways, and airports that were once ranked among the best in
the world have fallen into disrepair due to neglect and lack of
investment.

     That is why last year I signed the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law —
the largest investment in America’s infrastructure since President
Dwight Eisenhower and the largest single investment ever in our roads,
bridges, passenger rail, and public transit.  These historic investments
are funding crucial repairs to the infrastructure that our Nation relies
on so heavily for interstate commerce and national security.  The law
also modernizes our Nation’s ports and waterways, strengthening our
supply chains, our economic growth, and our global competitiveness while
protecting communities from the accelerating impact of climate change.

     Working together, governments at every level will be positioned to
deliver tangible results for the American people ‑- safer roads, better
public transit options, and a national network of electric vehicle
charging infrastructure.  We will reconnect communities and create
good-paying jobs, building and maintaining infrastructure projects that
are funded by this landmark legislation.

     During National Transportation Week, we acknowledge the importance
of our transportation infrastructure and honor the men and women who
design, build, operate, and maintain it.  We also recognize
transportation workers who serve traveling Americans every day.  As we
enter a new era in transportation infrastructure, my Administration will
continue to support our Nation’s evolving transportation needs to fuel
long-term economic growth and improve the quality of life for all
Americans.

In recognition of the ongoing contributions of our Nation’s
transportation system and in honor of the devoted professionals who work
to sustain its tradition of excellence, the United States Congress has
requested, by joint resolution approved May 16, 1957, as amended (36
U.S.C. 120), that the President designate the third Friday in May of
each year as “National Defense Transportation Day” and, by joint
resolution approved May 14, 1962 (36 U.S.C. 133), that the week in which
that Friday falls be designated as “National Transportation Week.”

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, do hereby proclaim Friday, May 20, 2022, as National Defense
Transportation Day and May 15 through May 21, 2022, as National
Transportation Week.  I urge all Americans to observe these occasions
with appropriate ceremonies, programs, and activities as we show our
appreciation to those who build and operate our Nation’s transportation
systems.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirteenth day of
May, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
