---
date: '2022-05-04'
modified_time: 2022-05-04 09:20:41-04:00
published_time: 2022-05-04 09:20:40-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/05/04/executive-order-on-enhancing-the-national-quantum-initiative-advisory-committee/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Executive Order on Enhancing the National Quantum Initiative Advisory\_Committee"
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, including section 104(a) of the
National Quantum Initiative Act (Public Law 115-368) (NQI Act), and
section 301 of title 3, United States Code, and in order to ensure
continued American leadership in quantum information science and its
technology applications, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1.  Purpose.  Quantum information science (QIS) can enable
transformative advances in knowledge and technology for industry,
academia, and government.  Accordingly, the National Quantum Initiative
(NQI), which aims to ensure the continued leadership of the United
States in QIS and its technology applications, is a substantial and
sustained national priority.  The NQI Program, established pursuant to
section 101 of the NQI Act, encompasses contributions from across the
Federal Government, as exemplified by the QIS research, development,
demonstration, and training activities pursued by executive departments
and agencies (agencies) with membership on either the National Science
and Technology Council (NSTC) Subcommittee on Quantum Information
Science (SCQIS) or the NSTC Subcommittee on Economic and Security
Implications of Quantum Science (ESIX).

Sec. 2.  Establishment.  (a)  To ensure that the NQI Program and the
Nation are informed by evidence, data, and perspectives from a diverse
group of experts and stakeholders, the National Quantum Initiative
Advisory Committee (Committee) is hereby established.  Consistent with
the NQI Act, the Committee shall advise the President, the SCQIS, and
the ESIX on the NQI Program.

\(b\)  The Committee shall consist of the Director of the Office of
Science and Technology Policy (Director) or the Director’s designee and
not more than 26 members, appointed by the President, who are
United States citizens representative of industry, universities, and
Federal laboratories, and who are qualified to provide advice and
information on QIS and technology research, development, demonstrations,
standards, education, technology transfer, commercial application, or
national security and economic concerns.

\(c\)  The Committee shall have two Co-Chairs.  The Director or the
Director’s designee shall serve as one Co-Chair of the Committee.  The
President shall designate another Co-Chair from among the appointed
members to serve as Co-Chair with the Director.

Sec. 3.  Functions.  (a)  The Committee shall advise the President and
the SCQIS and the ESIX (Subcommittees) and make recommendations for the
President to consider when reviewing and revising the NQI Program.  The
Committee shall also carry out all responsibilities set forth in section
104 of the NQI Act.

\(b\)  The Committee shall meet at least twice a year and shall:

\(i\)    respond to requests from the President or the Co-Chairs of the
Committee for information, analysis, evaluation, or advice relating to
QIS and its technology applications;

\(ii\)   solicit information and ideas from a broad range of
stakeholders on QIS, including the research community, the private
sector, academia, national laboratories, agencies, State and local
governments, foundations, and nonprofit organizations;

\(iii\)  review the national strategy for QIS; and

\(iv\)   respond to requests from the Subcommittees.

Sec. 4.  Administration.  (a)  The heads of agencies shall, to the
extent permitted by law, provide the Committee with information
concerning QIS and its technology applications when requested by a
Committee Co-Chair.

\(b\)  The Co-Chairs of the Committee may establish standing
subcommittees and ad hoc groups, including technical advisory groups, to
assist and provide information to the Committee.

\(c\)  The Director may request that members of the Committee, standing
subcommittees, or ad hoc groups who do not hold a current clearance for
access to classified information receive appropriate clearances and
access determinations pursuant to Executive Order 13526 of December 29,
2009 (Classified National Security Information), as amended, or any
successor order.

\(d\)  The National Quantum Coordination Office shall provide technical
and administrative support to the Committee, pursuant to section 102(b)
of the NQI Act.

\(e\)  Committee members shall serve without any compensation for their
work on the Committee, but may receive travel expenses, including per
diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving
intermittently in the Government service (5 U.S.C. 5701-5707).

Sec. 5.  Revocation.  Executive Order 13885 of August 30, 2019
(Establishing the National Quantum Initiative Advisory Committee), is
hereby revoked.

Sec. 6.  General Provisions.  (a)  Insofar as the Federal Advisory
Committee Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. App.) (FACA), may apply to the
Committee, any functions of the President under the FACA, except for
those in section 6 of the FACA, shall be performed by the Secretary of
Energy, in consultation with the Director, in accordance with the
guidelines and procedures established by the Administrator of General
Services.

\(b\)  Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise
affect:

\(i\)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or
agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

\(c\)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.

\(d\)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

THE WHITE HOUSE,

    May 4, 2022.
