---
date: '2022-05-27'
published_time: 2022-05-27 11:52:41-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/05/27/a-proclamation-prayer-for-peace-memorial-day-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation: Prayer for Peace, Memorial Day\_2022"
---
 
On Memorial Day, we remember the patriots who gave their lives in the
service of America, in the service of freedom, and in the service of
justice.  They made the ultimate sacrifice to defend our Constitution
and our democracy.  We are free because they were brave, and we live by
the light of the flame of liberty they kept burning.  They are all
heroes, and our Nation is forever grateful.  
  
Those who wear the uniform of the United States Armed Forces know the
pride of service and what it means to dedicate themselves to a cause
greater than themselves.  These women and men put their lives on the
line for an idea — the idea of America. They are the best of us.  On
this day, as we honor the fallen angels who consecrated this great
Nation and the ideals that we stand for with their blood, we rededicate
ourselves to the unending work of bringing our country ever closer to
that more perfect Union for which they died.    
  
Today and every day, we ask God to protect our troops, to shine light
perpetual upon the fallen, and to bring comfort to their families.  To
those who mourn a loved one, and to America’s Gold Star Families who
have lost a loved one in conflict, my heart aches for you.  Our Nation
owes you and those you have lost a tremendous debt that we can never
fully repay.  On Memorial Day, we vow to honor their memories and
support the families, caregivers, and survivors they left behind.   
  
As we honor the memories of our fallen heroes, we are grateful for the
future they made possible for us and rededicate ourselves to seeking
enduring peace.  Our heroes gave their lives for our country, and they
live forever in our hearts — forever proud, forever honorable, and
forever American.  
   
In honor and recognition of all of our fallen service members, the
Congress, by a joint resolution approved May 11, 1950, as amended (36
U.S.C. 116), has requested that the President issue a proclamation
calling on the people of the United States to observe each Memorial Day
as a day of prayer for permanent peace and designating a period on that
day when the people of the United States might unite in prayer and
reflection.  The Congress, by Public Law 106-579, has also designated
3:00 p.m. local time on that day as a time for all Americans to observe,
in their own way, the National Moment of Remembrance.  
  
NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, do hereby proclaim Memorial Day, May 30, 2022, as a day of
prayer for permanent peace, and I designate the hour beginning in each
locality at 11:00 a.m. of that day as a time when people might unite in
prayer and reflection.  I urge the press, radio, television, and all
other information media to cooperate in this observance.  I further ask
all Americans to observe the National Moment of Remembrance beginning at
3:00 p.m. local time on Memorial Day.  
  
I request the Governors of the United States and its Commonwealths and
Territories, and the appropriate officials of all units of government,
to direct that the flag be flown at half-staff until noon on this
Memorial Day on all buildings, grounds, and naval vessels throughout the
United States and in all areas under its jurisdiction and control.  I
also request the people of the United States to display the flag at
half-staff from their homes for the customary forenoon period.  
  
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-seventh day
of May, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.  
 

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
