---
date: '2022-05-31'
modified_time: 2022-05-31 14:15:45-04:00
published_time: 2022-05-31 14:15:44-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/05/31/a-proclamation-on-national-homeownership-month-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Homeownership Month,\_2022"
---
 
     For many Americans, a home is more than just a residence.  It is a
place that instills a sense of pride, security, and comfort that, no
matter what challenges in life arise, they have somewhere to go and call
their own.  Whether owning or renting, a home is where we can live with
dignity and watch our families grow.  During National Homeownership
Month, we recognize the importance of housing and reaffirm our
commitment to ensuring that everyone has a place to call home.

     Every American should be able to afford to rent or own a home of
their own.  Yet across the country, the price of housing — both for
renters and homebuyers — is increasing, making it harder for people to
find an affordable home.  Our Nation is facing a housing shortage that
is driving up prices — and with housing prices near record highs, too
many families are unable to make other important investments, such as
furthering their education or saving for retirement.

     Throughout the pandemic, my Administration has helped people who
have struggled, through no fault of their own, stay in their homes by
providing financial relief to help pay the mortgage or the rent.  To
tackle the root causes of housing affordability, my Administration
released a Housing Supply Action Plan, aimed at closing the nationwide
shortfall of housing for purchase and rent in 5 years through a variety
of measures:  incentivizing States and localities to create the
conditions for more housing, improving financing tools for a wider range
of housing arrangements, enhancing existing forms of financing for
housing construction, and addressing other barriers to housing supply
and affordability, such as supply chain issues due to the pandemic.  My
budget also includes investments to address the critical shortage of
affordable housing and provide first-generation down payment assistance
to aspiring homeowners.

     Homeownership is a major source of generational wealth for many
Americans — it is a central part of the American dream.  But for too
many Americans — especially Black and Brown Americans — homeownership
and the opportunity to build and pass down wealth through it are
unattainable.  Longstanding inequities in the housing system, from
disinvestment to redlining and mis-valuation of homes in communities of
color, have locked out entire generations from the American dream and
the opportunity to build generational wealth.  Housing also opens up
opportunities that are tied to where one lives, and it is our shared
responsibility to ensure that everyone has equitable access to those
opportunities — from education and stable employment to quality health
care and healthy food.

     My Administration is committed to ending unlawful housing
discrimination and advancing equity for underserved communities.  Toward
that aim, we have launched an aggressive effort to combat racial
discrimination in housing.  I also remain committed to expanding access
to homeownership opportunities for first-time home buyers and minority
homebuyers while ensuring that Black and Brown families receive a fair
appraisal for their homes.  Through the Property Appraisal and Valuation
Equity Action Plan, we have developed the most wide-ranging set of
Federal reforms in history to ensure that the color of a person’s skin
does not determine the value of their home.

     As we mark National Homeownership Month, we recognize the
importance of housing for all Americans.  Whether owning, renting, or
aspiring to do either, we renew our commitment to lowering costs and
expanding access to safe, affordable homes that all Americans need and
deserve.  Together, we can ensure that every American has a safe place
to call home.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim June
2022 as National Homeownership Month.  I call upon the people of this
Nation to safeguard the American Dream by ensuring that everyone has
access to an affordable home in a community of their choice.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first
day of May, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
