---
date: '2022-05-31'
published_time: 2022-05-31 13:09:11-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/05/31/a-proclamation-on-great-outdoors-month-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Great Outdoors Month,\_2022"
---
 
     During Great Outdoors Month, we celebrate our Nation’s vast array
of parks, wildlife refuges, forests, monuments, marine sanctuaries,
waters, national conservation lands, and other natural treasures.  Every
day, Americans across the country draw inspiration and pride from the
beauty of our magnificent outdoor spaces.  From lush forests in
Washington State and coral reefs in the Virgin Islands to snow-capped
mountains in Alaska and rolling hills in Vermont — the grandeur of the
American landscape fills our souls and fuels our spirit of adventure.
 These iconic and stunning natural wonders have always been central to
our heritage as a people and essential to our identity as a Nation. 

     Boundless outdoor spaces across the country unite Americans of
every age and background for hiking, fishing, canoeing, hunting,
exploring, reflecting, and finding solace.  As part of my
Administration’s efforts to advance equity, diversity, and inclusion, we
are committed to ensuring that everyone can access and enjoy America’s
great outdoors.  Outreach efforts — including the National Park
Service’s Rivers, Trails, and Conservation Assistance program — expand
trails, conserve rivers, and restore green space so that more people can
benefit.  We are also enhancing safe outdoor resources for communities
so that more people can participate in healthy, active outdoor
recreation and enjoy the physical and spiritual nourishment it provides.
 

     Today, our lands and waters face unprecedented threats from climate
change that require historic action to safeguard and preserve them.
 That is why my Administration is setting ambitious environmental
standards and making bold climate commitments for the United States: 
reducing greenhouse gas emissions by up to 52 percent by 2030, reaching
100 percent carbon pollution-free electricity by 2035, and achieving
net‑zero emissions economy-wide by 2050. 

     Together with our State, Tribal, and local partners, we also
launched the America the Beautiful Initiative, our Nation’s first-ever
voluntary conservation goal, to conserve and restore 30 percent of
America’s lands and waters by 2030.  We also spearheaded a $1 Billion
America the Beautiful Challenge, combining Federal investments with
private and philanthropic contributions to accelerate land, water, and
wildlife conservation and restoration efforts across the country.  And
we are making critical investments through the Great American Outdoors
Act for land acquisition and community-based conservation and recreation
projects in national parks, national forests, public lands, and Tribal
schools.  
  
     Land and ocean conservation is a crucial part of addressing the
world’s climate challenges.  Proper stewardship protects the outdoors
while contributing to sustainability, climate mitigation, and climate
resilience.  It is estimated that as much as one-third of the global
emissions reductions needed to stabilize the world’s climate can come
from natural climate solutions.  That’s why I issued an Executive Order
on Earth Day to strengthen our Nation’s forests, communities, and local
economies, and to take stock of nature and its benefits.

     During Great Outdoors Month, I encourage Americans to take time to
experience the natural wonders across our Nation.  As we enjoy the great
outdoor landscapes and seascapes, let us each recommit to doing our part
in their stewardship, preservation, and sustainable use so they continue
to be a source of inspiration for outdoor enthusiasts for generations to
come.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim June
2022 as Great Outdoors Month.  I urge all Americans to explore the great
outdoors, to experience our Nation’s natural heritage, and to continue
our Nation’s tradition conserving our lands and waters for future
generations.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first
day of May, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
