---
date: '2022-05-31'
published_time: 2022-05-31 13:05:25-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/05/31/a-proclamation-on-black-music-appreciation-month-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Black Music Appreciation Month,\_2022"
---
 
     Music has the power to lift our spirits, comfort our souls, and
inspire our hearts.  It gives a voice to the human spirit, creating a
common language that unites people and breaks down barriers.  Perhaps no
music has had as profound and powerful an impact in shaping America’s
musical score as Black music.  Intricately woven into the tapestry of
our Nation, Black music enriches our lives and pushes the boundaries of
creativity.  Throughout the decades and across the country, Black music
has fueled a myriad of genres — from rhythm and blues to jazz, gospel,
country, rap and more.  This month, we celebrate the extraordinary
legacy of Black music on American culture and recognize the indelible
impact it continues to have on the world. 

     For generations, Black music has conveyed the hopes and struggles
of a resilient people — spirituals mourning the original sin of slavery
and later heralding freedom from bondage, hard truths told through jazz
and the sounds of Motown during the Civil Rights movement, and hip-hop
and rhythm and blues that remind us of the work that still lies ahead.
 The music created by Black artists continues to influence musicians of
all persuasions, entertain people of all backgrounds, and shape the
story of our Nation.

     During Black Music Appreciation Month, we honor Black musicians,
singers, and contributors to the music industry — past and present —
whose innovative talents unite us in joy as much as in sorrow and
healing.  We pay homage to the musical legends whose artistic
expressions help build community, generate empathy, and foster a sense
of shared identity.  And we celebrate Black artists who have used their
songs to stand up to injustice, fight for equality, and reflect a mirror
on society — reminding us all of our enduring obligation to deliver the
promise of America for all Americans.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim June
2022 as Black Music Appreciation Month.  I call upon public officials,
educators, and all the people of the United States to observe this month
by honoring Black Musicians and raising awareness and appreciation of
Black music.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first
day of May, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
