---
date: '2022-05-06'
modified_time: 2022-05-06 16:49:55-04:00
published_time: 2022-05-06 16:49:06-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/05/06/a-proclamation-on-mothers-day-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Mother\u2019s Day,\_2022"
---
 
Every Mother’s Day, we give special thanks to honor and celebrate the
mothers in our lives.  Mothers across America provide unconditional love
and extraordinary strength.  They are our rocks in moments of crisis and
our guiding lights when we need it most.  Our Nation would not be where
we are today without their enduring foundation of love and support.

This Mother’s Day and every day, I celebrate the mothers who have
anchored my life.  I honor my wife, Jill — the love of my life and my
north star.  After profound loss, Jill gave me back my life, and she
made me believe that our family could be whole again.  She brings us joy
and laughter every day.  And I remember my own mother — Catherine
Eugenia “Jean” Finnegan Biden — who has been gone since 2010 and whom I
miss every day.  She taught me that character and integrity matter.
 When I succeeded, she was also quick to remind me it was because of the
support and prayer of others.  And if I did not succeed the first time,
she made sure I picked myself up and kept at it.  To this day, I live by
her words.

In a year of extraordinary challenges, mothers have done what they
always have — carried their families, communities, and our Nation with
selflessness and courage, despite the barriers that they so often face.
 Americans must always care for our mothers in turn:  mothers who have
worked to make ends meet for their families, even in workplaces where
they face discrimination and disparities; mothers who serve
simultaneously as frontline workers and caregivers; mothers who are
grieving the loss of a child; and all mothers across the Nation, who
sacrifice every day.

My Administration is working to build our economy from the bottom up and
the middle out to give America’s hardworking mothers some much needed
breathing room.  Through the American Rescue Plan, we delivered a
historic expansion of the Child Tax Credit, which helped us reduce child
poverty last year by an estimated 40 percent.  We also delivered
increased Federal subsidies for child care providers, along with
critical utility assistance for low-income families.  My Administration
is also committed to ensuring that pregnancy and childbirth are safe
and dignified experiences for all families.  That is why we are working
hard to address our maternal health crisis.  America’s maternal
mortality rates are among the highest in the developed world, and they
are especially high among Black women and Native American women,
regardless of their income or education levels.  We must continue
working to improve health outcomes for pregnant women and mothers across
the board.

The progress we are making for mothers is undeniable, but we are not
done yet.  We are still fighting hard to pass paid family and medical
leave for American workers, to address the barriers and discrimination
women continue to face in the workplace, and to strengthen and invest in
our country’s care infrastructure.  As we work to build a better
America, I will continue to use every tool at my disposal to ensure that
all mothers and families have the opportunities they need to thrive.

My mom used to always say, “The greatest virtue of all is courage,
because without courage, you couldn’t love with abandon.”  Every day,
mothers summon the courage to love us with abandon.  On Mother’s Day, we
honor all of the mothers who continue to build, shape, and sustain our
Nation.

The Congress, by joint resolution approved May 8, 1914 (38 Stat. 770),
has designated the second Sunday in May each year as “Mother’s Day” and
requested the President to call for its appropriate observance.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim May 8, 2022, as
Mother’s Day.  I urge all Americans to express their love, respect, and
gratitude to mothers everywhere.  I call upon all citizens to observe
this day with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this sixth day of May,
in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of the Independence
of the United States of America the two hundred and forty-sixth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
