---
date: '2022-05-13'
published_time: 2022-05-13 17:51:19-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/05/13/a-proclamation-on-peace-officers-memorial-day-and-police-week-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Peace Officers Memorial Day and Police Week,\_2022"
---
 
   For generations, courageous men and women of our Nation’s law
enforcement community have dedicated their lives to protecting us in big
cities, small towns, and suburban neighborhoods across America.  Each
morning, police officers pin on their shield and walk out the door to go
to work, hoping they will come home safely.  Last year, a record number
of law enforcement officers died in the line of duty.  On Peace Officers
Memorial Day and during Police Week, we express our gratitude for these
selfless public servants who put themselves in harm’s way to keep us
safe and honor those who lost their lives in the line of duty.  
  
     As we see a rise in gun violence and other violent crimes, it is
critical that we fund law enforcement with the resources and training
they need to do their jobs safely and effectively.  That is why the
American Rescue Plan provided $350 billion that cities, States,
counties, and tribes can use to hire more police officers and invest in
proven strategies like community violence intervention, youth
programming, and other supportive services.  It is also why my proposed
2023 budget more than doubles funding for effective community policing
through the Community Oriented Policing Services Hiring Program.  In
addition, my budget increases support for the United States Marshals and
the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, so they can
apprehend fugitives and fight illegal gun trafficking.  
  
     Gun violence not only affects community members, it also targets
law enforcement officers.  Last month at the White House, surrounded by
law enforcment, community leaders, and families who have lost loved ones
to gun violence, we announced that the Department of Justice is reining
in the proliferation of “ghost guns” — privately-made firearms without
serial numbers that are increasingly showing up on our streets and being
used to attack law enforcement officers and members of the public.   
  
     My Administration is also committed to supporting programs that
protect the physical safety of our law enforcement — more bulletproof
vests, active shooter trainings, and early warnings of threats targeting
officers.  We must also do more to protect our officers’ mental health
and emotional well-being.  Suicide and COVID-19 were among the leading
causes of death for law enforcement officers in 2021.  Last November, I
was proud to sign into law three bills that extend critical peer
counseling and mental health resources for officers, expand eligibility
and benefits for first responders disabled in the line of duty, and
protect Federal law enforcement serving abroad.  Our officers swear an
oath to protect us, and we owe them the same pledge.  
  
     We must not abandon our streets or accept the false choice between
public safety and equal justice.  The solution is not to defund our
police.  It is to make our streets more secure through policing that
treats everyone with dignity and respect.  It is to provide officers
with the resources, tools, and training they need to keep our
neighborhoods safe.  
  
     During Police Week, let us demonstrate our appreciation for the
unsung heroes who nobly wear the badge and put their lives at risk to
protect people each and every day.  Let us honor the brave officers
whose bright futures were cut short in the line of duty.  Let us come
together to help police be the partners and protectors our communities
and our Nation need for a safer, more just America.  
  
     By a joint resolution approved October 1, 1962, as amended (76
Stat. 676), and by Public Law 103-322, as amended (36 U.S.C. 136-137),
the President has been authorized and requested to designate May 15 of
each year as “Peace Officers Memorial Day” and the week in which it
falls as “Police Week.”  
  
     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, do hereby proclaim May 15, 2022, as Peace Officers
Memorial Day and May 15 through May 21, 2022, as Police Week.  I call
upon all Americans to observe these events with appropriate ceremonies
and activities and salute our Nation’s brave law enforcement officers
and remember their peace officer brothers and sisters who have given
their last full measure of devotion in the line of duty.  I also call on
the Governors of the United States and its Territories, and appropriate
officials of all units of government, to direct that the flag be flown
at half-staff on Peace Officers Memorial Day.  I further encourage all
Americans to display the flag at half-staff from their homes and
businesses on that day.  
  
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
thirteenth day of May, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two,
and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred
and forty-sixth.  
 

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
