---
date: '2022-05-31'
modified_time: 2022-05-31 15:50:25-04:00
published_time: 2022-05-31 15:50:24-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/05/31/a-proclamation-on-adjusting-imports-of-aluminum-into-the-united-states-3/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on\_Adjusting Imports of Aluminum Into the United\_States"
---
 
      1.  On January 19, 2018, the Secretary of Commerce (Secretary)
transmitted to the President a report on the Secretary’s investigation
into the effect of imports of aluminum articles on the national security
of the United States under section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of
1962, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1862).  The Secretary found and advised the
President of his opinion that aluminum articles are being imported into
the United States in such quantities and under such circumstances as to
threaten to impair the national security of the United States.

      2.  In Proclamation 9704 of March 8, 2018 (Adjusting Imports of
Aluminum Into the United States), the President concurred in the
Secretary’s finding that aluminum articles are being imported into the
United States in such quantities and under such circumstances as to
threaten to impair the national security of the United States, and
decided to adjust the imports of aluminum articles by imposing a 10
percent ad valorem tariff on such articles imported from all countries
except Canada and Mexico.  The proclamation further stated that any
country with which we have a security relationship is welcome to discuss
with the United States alternative ways to address the threatened
impairment of the national security caused by imports from that country,
and noted that, should the United States and any such country arrive at
a satisfactory alternative means to address the threat to the national
security such that the President determines that imports from that
country no longer threaten to impair the national security, the
President may remove or modify the restriction on aluminum articles
imports from that country and, if necessary, adjust the tariff as it
applies to other countries, as the national security interests of the
United States require.

      3.  The United States has successfully concluded discussions with
the United Kingdom (UK) on satisfactory alternative means to address the
threatened impairment to our national security posed by aluminum
articles imports from the UK.  The United States and the UK have agreed
to expand coordination involving trade remedies and customs matters,
monitor bilateral steel and aluminum trade, cooperate on addressing
non-market excess capacity and carbon intensity in these sectors,
annually review their arrangement and their ongoing cooperation, and
confer on market-distorting influence or ownership in the steel and
aluminum industries. The United States will monitor the implementation
and effectiveness of the measures agreed upon with the UK in addressing
our national security needs, and I may revisit this determination, as
appropriate.

      4.  The United States will implement a number of actions,
including a tariff-rate quota that restricts the quantity of aluminum
articles imported into the United States from the UK without the
application of the tariff proclaimed in Proclamation 9704.  Under the
arrangement, aluminum articles, except semi‑finished wrought aluminum
articles, that are accompanied by a certificate of analysis are eligible
for in-quota treatment.  In order to be eligible for in-quota treatment,
semi-finished wrought aluminum articles must be accompanied by a
certificate of analysis and must not contain primary aluminum from the
People’s Republic of China, the Russian Federation, or the Republic of
Belarus.  In my judgment, these measures will provide an effective,
long-term alternative means to address any contribution by UK aluminum
articles imports to the threatened impairment to our national security
by restraining aluminum articles imports to the United States from the
UK, limiting transshipment, and discouraging excess capacity and excess
aluminum production.  In light of this agreement, I have determined that
specified volumes of eligible aluminum articles imports from the UK will
no longer threaten to impair the national security and have decided to
exclude such imports from the UK up to a designated quota from the
tariff proclaimed in Proclamation 9704.  The United States will monitor
the implementation and effectiveness of the tariff-rate quota and other
measures agreed upon with the UK in addressing our national security
needs, and I may revisit this determination, as appropriate.

      5.  The alternative means, including the tariff-rate quota, are
consistent with the recommendations specified in the original
investigation into the effect of imports of aluminum articles on the
national security of the United States under section 232 of the Trade
Expansion Act of 1962, as amended.  The agreed-upon aggregate
tariff-rate quota volume, totaling 900 metric tons of unwrought
aluminum, 11,400 metric tons of semi-finished wrought aluminum other
than foil, and 9,300 metric tons of foil, is consistent with the
objective of reaching and sustaining a sufficient capacity utilization
rate in the domestic aluminum industry.

      6.  In light of my determination to adjust the tariff proclaimed
in Proclamation 9704 as applied to eligible aluminum articles imports
from the UK, I have considered whether it is necessary and appropriate
in light of our national security interests to make any corresponding
adjustments to such tariff as it applies to other countries.  I have
determined that it is necessary and appropriate, at this time, to
maintain the current tariff level as it applies to other countries.

      7.  Section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962, as amended,
authorizes the President to adjust the imports of an article and its
derivatives that are being imported into the United States in such
quantities or under such circumstances as to threaten to impair the
national security.

      8.  Section 604 of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended (19 U.S.C.
2483), authorizes the President to embody in the Harmonized Tariff
Schedule of the United States (HTSUS) the substance of statutes
affecting import treatment, and actions thereunder, including the
removal, modification, continuance, or imposition of any rate of duty or
other import restriction.  
Now, Therefore, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, including section 232 of the Trade
Expansion Act of 1962, as amended, section 301 of title 3, United States
Code, and section 604 of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended, do hereby
proclaim as follows:  
  
            (1)  To establish a tariff-rate quota on imports of eligible
aluminum articles from the UK as set forth in paragraph 4 of this
proclamation, U.S. Note 19 of subchapter III of chapter 99 of the HTSUS
is amended as provided for in the Annex to this proclamation.  Imports
of aluminum articles from the UK in excess of the tariff-rate quota
quantities shall remain subject to the duties imposed by clause 2 of
Proclamation 9704, as amended.  The Secretary, in consultation with the
United States Trade Representative and the Secretary of Homeland
Security, shall recommend to the President, as warranted, updates to the
in-quota volumes contained in the Annex to this proclamation.  Aluminum
articles from the UK imported under an exclusion granted pursuant to
clause 3 of Proclamation 9704, as amended, shall count against the
in-quota volume of the tariff-rate quota established in clause 1 of this
proclamation.

            (2)  Clause 2 of Proclamation 9704, as amended, is further
amended in the second sentence by deleting “and” before “(h)” and
inserting before the period at the end:  “, and (i)  on or after 12:01
a.m. eastern daylight time on June 1, 2022, from all countries except
Argentina, Australia, Canada, Mexico, and from the member countries of
the European Union through 11:59 p.m. eastern standard time on December
31, 2023, and from the United Kingdom, for aluminum articles covered by
headings 9903.85.25 through 9903.85.44, inclusive.”

            (3)  Aluminum articles eligible for treatment under clause 1
of this proclamation must be accompanied by a certificate of analysis in
order to receive such treatment.  Eligible semi‑finished wrought
aluminum articles must not contain primary aluminum from the People’s
Republic of China, the Russian Federation, or the Republic of Belarus.
 The Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of Homeland Security
and the United States Trade Representative, is authorized to take such
actions as are necessary to ensure compliance with this requirement.
 Failure to comply could result in applicable remedies or penalties
under United States law.

            (4)  The modifications to the HTSUS made by clause 1 of this
proclamation shall be effective with respect to goods entered for
consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after
12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on June 1, 2022, and shall continue in
effect, unless such actions are expressly reduced, modified, or
terminated.

            (5)  Any imports of aluminum articles from the UK that were
admitted into a U.S. foreign trade zone under “privileged foreign
status” as defined in 19 CFR 146.41, prior to 12:01 a.m. eastern
daylight time on June 1, 2022, shall be subject upon entry for
consumption made on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on June 1,
2022, to the provisions of the tariff-rate quota in effect at the time
of the entry for consumption.

            (6)  Any provision of previous proclamations and
Executive Orders that is inconsistent with the actions taken in this
proclamation is superseded to the extent of such inconsistency.

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first
day of May, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.  
                              

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
