---
date: '2023-10-19'
modified_time: 2023-10-20 09:54:42-04:00
published_time: 2023-10-19 22:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/10/19/remarks-by-nec-director-lael-brainard-on-opportunity-inclusion-and-growth-at-the-joint-center-for-political-and-economic-studies/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by NEC Director Lael Brainard on Opportunity, Inclusion, and Growth\
  \ at the Joint Center for Political and Economic\_Studies"
---
 
Thank you, Jessica Fulton and Paul Thornell for your leadership. I’d
like to congratulate my friend and former colleague Dr. Lisa Cook on
receiving the Louis E. Martin award last night.

We know from both evidence and theory that opportunity, inclusion, and
growth go hand in hand. As I have noted
[previously](https://www.federalreserve.gov/newsevents/speech/brainard20170522a.htm),
“when there are large disparities in opportunity … such that households’
enterprise, exertion, and investments are not rewarded commensurately,
then families and small businesses will invest less in the future and
potential growth will fall short.”

Persistent barriers to opportunity prevent not only individuals but also
our nation from achieving its full economic strength. That’s why the
President’s economic plan is focused on improving economic opportunity
and outcomes for all Americans – including Black Americans. President
Biden is focused on communities who have long been left out or left
behind by decades of trickle-down economics.

The President’s economic plan is focused on growing the economy from the
middle out and the bottom up. It is a sharp departure from his
predecessor’s reliance on trickle down policies that just led to greater
concentration of incomes and wealth. Under President Biden’s economic
plan, we are seeing some real markers of progress in improving economic
outcomes for Black Americans and other communities that have often been
left behind.

This is the result of deliberate policies designed to restore the labor
market to full strength as rapidly as possible – in the face of loud
criticism from many quarters that it would take high unemployment to
bring inflation down. Instead, we are seeing sustained low unemployment
and inflation at levels that prevailed before the Great Financial
Crisis.

Under the President’s leadership the U.S. economy is delivering better
labor conditions for the American people, including Black Americans. We
have seen record low Black unemployment rates and record high prime age
Black employment to population rates in recent months. The Black-White
unemployment gap has declined relative to its pre-pandemic level. For
Black Americans, real wages are up since before the pandemic.

Just this week we learned from the [Federal Reserve Survey of Consumer
Finances](https://www.federalreserve.gov/publications/files/scf23.pdf)
that real median household net worth over the three years since the
pandemic began recorded the largest gain in the history of the survey –
with Black real median household net worth 60% above pre-pandemic
levels. That compares to the 7% decline in real median Black household
net worth between 2007 and 2019. The Black-White wealth gap, while
persistently large, has also narrowed relative to its pre-pandemic
level, after staying roughly constant over the prior business cycle.

These improvements reflect deliberate policy choices to take a
fundamentally different approach to this recovery compared with previous
recoveries where hardworking Americans lost years of economic progress
and financial security – including hardworking black Americans.

Sustaining this progress into the future requires a long-term agenda to
tackle longstanding barriers. There is more to do to continue to address
those systemic barriers and improve economic opportunity for Black
communities.

Today, I want highlight two core areas of work that are critical to the
economic future of Black Communities: Breaking down barriers to wealth
building and creating pathways to economic opportunity.

**Expanding capital access and breaking down barriers to wealth
building**

The racial wealth gap is a stark reminder of decades of policy decisions
to exclude and to put up barriers to building wealth for Black
Americans. Nowhere is that clearer than in the area of redlining where
there were maps that literally drew red lines around areas with high
density of Black Americans deemed too risky to underwrite mortgages.

The ability to build intergenerational wealth depends on expanding
access to housing, as well as entrepreneurship, and lessening the burden
of consumer debt on families who are just trying to keep up and get
ahead. Economic studies have shown that consumer debt keeps families
from buying homes and starting small businesses, activities central to
building wealth. 

So, it is notable that since the President took office, we’ve seen the
fastest creation rate for Black-owned small businesses in over 25 years.

In the most recent [Survey of Consumer
Finances](https://www.federalreserve.gov/publications/files/scf23.pdf),
the number of black households with wealth from small businesses more
than doubled since pre-pandemic.

So far, the Administration has provided a record-breaking $163 billion
in federal procurement opportunities to small disadvantaged businesses.

On housing, the President’s programs have delivered nearly 11 million
emergency rental assistance payments, and established a
first-of-its-kind national eviction prevention infrastructure that kept
eviction filings below pre-pandemic levels for one and a half years
after the eviction moratorium ended.

The Administration is leveraging the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law to
encourage state and local land use and zoning reform to help remove
barriers to affordable housing production and preservation.

Cancelling student debt is particularly important to Black communities
as Black borrowers have more debt on average than White borrowers. In
the wake of the Supreme Court’s decision, the President remains
committed to fighting for relief. So far, he has cancelled over $117
billion in student debt for more than 3.4 million borrowers. The
Administration is also working to lessen the burden of debt going
forward. For example, the Department of Education recently launched a
repayment plan to lower monthly payments for borrowers who will see
their lifetime payments per dollar borrowed cut in half.

**Building pathways to economic opportunity**

The President often talks about fulfilling the promise of America,
meaning no communities left out or left behind, not just in this
recovery but in the long run. This means creating good-paying jobs that
lead to career pathways, expanding access to affordable high-speed
internet, and ensuring everyone is a part of building the industries of
the future.

With the President’s historic investments through the CHIPS Act,
Inflation Reduction Act, and Infrastructure Law, we are investing in
critical industries and technologies vital to the clean energy
transition and America’s economic competitiveness. And we are doing so
in ways that create good jobs and lift up communities. This includes the
EPA’s new grant program that is investing approximately $2 billion
dollars in environmental and climate justice activities to benefit
disadvantaged communities.

And, it includes closing the digital divide for Black families, with
funding and a commitment to connect every person in America to reliable,
affordable high-speed internet by 2030. Access to the internet is
critical to finding a new job, accessing educational and training
opportunities, and running a small business. The Commerce Department has
allocated $3 billion in funding to connect unserved and underserved
areas to the internet backbone and support digital equity efforts.

We are making investments with a particular emphasis on creating
good-paying union jobs and building pathways for all communities to
access those jobs. Across the Administration, we have prioritized
funding applications with a commitment to strong community benefits
agreements and created efforts to build industry, labor, and training
partnerships for further access to good jobs. 

Moreover, our Administration has focused on increasing access to good
construction jobs for workers who are underrepresented in the industry,
including Black workers. In March, the Department of
Labor [launched](https://www.dol.gov/newsroom/releases/ofccp/ofccp20230314) the
Mega Construction Project (Megaproject) Program, initially designating
12 Bipartisan Infrastructure Law-funded projects across the country. The
Megaprojects Program provides free, continuous, on-the-ground assistance
to help construction project owners, contractors, and unions ensure
equal employment opportunities for underrepresented workers. Also in
March, the Department of Labor announced a $20 million cooperative
agreement with TradesFutures for the Scaling Apprenticeship Readiness
Across the Building Trades Initiative, in partnership with the National
Urban League. This first-of-its-kind initiative aims to substantially
increase the number of participants from underrepresented populations
and underserved communities in Registered Apprenticeship programs in the
construction industry.

Earlier this year, the President kicked off the Small Business
Administration’s Annual Women’s Business Summit, introduced by a small
business owner who exemplifies the Administration’s agenda at work.
Natalie King is the founder of a small manufacturing company based in
Detroit Michigan. As a Black-owned, women-owned small business leader in
the electric charging space, Natalie spoke about the importance of
demonstrating that EV charging is for everyone. She expects her company
to bring 100 new jobs to the area by the end of 2023, and 100 more by
the end of 2025 – in large part thanks to the investments this
Administration is making through the Investing in America agenda.

We are seeing progress, but there is more work to be done. I look
forward to working with all of you to grow the economy by breaking down
barriers and creating economic opportunity.

\###
