---
date: '2023-10-23'
published_time: 2023-10-23 17:21:53-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/10/23/remarks-by-president-biden-on-how-bidenomics-and-the-investing-in-america-agenda-are-growing-the-economy-in-every-region-of-the-country/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on How Bidenomics and the Investing in America\
  \ Agenda are Growing the Economy in Every Region of the\_Country"
---
 
3:11 P.M. EDT  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Folks — Mark, thank you very much for the
introduction.   
  
Look, a little over a year ago, I signed the bipartisan CHIPS and
Science Act.  That act did two things.  Excuse me, I have a little bit
of a cold.  First, it’s a historic investment in bringing the
semiconductor industry back to America.  We invented the semiconductors
— those little computer chips that are about the size of the tip of your
little finger.  They affect nearly everything in our lives from
cellphones, to automobiles, to refrigerators, to the most sophisticated
weapons systems we have.  
  
America invented these chips.  But over time, we went from producing
nearly 40 percent of the world’s chips down to producing just over 10
percent.   
  
And as a result of the CHIPS and Science Act, the semiconductor
companies all over the world are investing over a hundred billion
dollars to bring chip production back to the United States.  I’ve
visited almost every major center, starting from South Korea on, and
they want to be here, building the chips here in America.  
  
Second, the bill created what we call “tech hubs” as part of the bill. 
A tech hub is going — we’re going to invest in critical technologies,
like biotechnology, critical <s>materials</s> \[minerals\], quantum
computing, and advanced manufacturing so the U.S. will lead the world
again in innovation across the board.  
  
These hubs all around the country will bring together private industry,
higher education, state and local governments, Tribes, and organized
labor.   
  
Today, we’re announcing that 31 tech hubs spread across the entire
<s>company</s> \[country\] will be able to compete for up to $75 million
each to accelerate and scale up their work.  And I want to thank
Majority Leader Chuck Schumer and Senator Todd Young and Representative
Joe — excuse me — Representatives Joe Morelle and Susan Ward — excuse me
— Susan Wild for their work to make this happen.   
  
Representatives from many of these hubs are in the — on the — on the
screen behind me.  And in front of me there is — I was — that’s why I
was turning to look, to see whether — if they were still there.  
  
The work they’re doing is transformational.  For example, a tech hub in
Wisconsin is going to bring together research labs, medical device
manufacturers, and engineers.  They’re going to build technology that
supports personalized medicine, like tests, treatments, and therapies
specifically tailored to a patient’s genetic code and medical records. 
And I’m — I believe it’s going to save a lot of lives in the long run.  
  
Ohio — the largest concentration of rubber and plastics manufacturing in
North America.  In the Ohio hub, businesses and universities are going
to come together to develop sustainable plastic and rubber technology
that can be produced with fewer emissions and is able to be recycled and
biodegradable — is biodegradable and is non-toxic, which is going to
significantly impact on the environment.  
  
These hubs are also making sure workers get the skills they need to do
these jobs.  For example, with the leadership of Majority Leader
Schumer, a hub in Upstate New York is going to support a workforce
training program for New York’s semiconductor industry, which, by the
way, has seen tens of billions of dollars — billions of dollars — in new
investment because of the CHIPS and Science Act.   
  
This hub will have a particular focus on training people from
communities historically left behind — like women, people of color — to
work in the semiconductor industry.   
  
The list goes on.  We’re doing this from coast to coast and in the
heartland; in red states and blue states; small towns, cities of all
sizes.   
  
All this is part of my strategy to invest in America and invest in
Americans.   
  
It’s working.  We’re creating good jobs in communities all across the
country, including places where, for decades, factories have been shut
down, hollowed out when jobs moved overseas to find cheaper
employment.  
  
Over the past few decades, these communities lost more than jobs.  They
lost a sense of — their sense of dignity, of opportunity, a sense of
pride.  We’re going to change all that.   
  
Tech hubs are going to bring this work to where people live in
communities all across America.   
  
The press has started to call my plan “Bidenomics.”  Well, under
Bidenomics, you don’t have to leave home or your family to get a good
job.   
  
For too long, science and innovation, and economic opportunities that
came with it, were concentrated on the coasts.   
  
As a country, we used to invest 2 percent of our gross domestic product
in research and development.  Now it’s 0.7 percent.  How can you lead
the world when you no longer lead in research and development?  
  
My plan is changing that.  Under Bidenomics, we’re going to make sure
America’s future is made in America.  You know, it’s leading to a
manufacturing boom attracting over $600 billion so far in private
investment in American manufacturing and our clean energy future.   
  
For too long, we looked around the world to find — corporations looked
around the world to find the cheapest employment and then imported the
product they made — the foreign product.  
  
Now, we’re creating American jobs and exporting American products. 
That’s good for everybody.  These tech hubs will be transformational. 
And they’re part of a long line of transformational investments we’ve
made since I took office.   
  
And as a result, I truly believe this country is about to take off,
because, for the first time in a long time, we’re investing in America
and we’re investing in American people.  We’re investing in our future. 
And I can honestly say I’ve never been more optimistic about America’s
future.   
  
I want to thank you.  And I’m going to leave you now with Secretary Gina
Raimondo, who has been the engine behind this effort.  She’s going to
lead the discussion with representatives from these tech hubs on the
screen behind me for all of you to see.  
  
I apologize.  I have to go to the Situation Room.  We have another issue
that I have to deal with.  
  
But thank you, thank you, thank you.  
  
Q    Sir, Pope Francis spoke with you yes- — you spoke to Pope Francis
by phone yesterday?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  I did.  
  
Q    How did — how did that conversation impact you?  What did you take
away from it — that conversation with Pope Francis?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  I’ll answer this one question.  It — the Pope and I are
on the same page.  He — he was very, very interested in what we were
doing to deal with some of the crises that we’re facing, particularly in
Israel this time around.  
  
And I laid out to him what the gameplan was, how we thought we should be
providing the kind of assistance to Israel that it needed.  And the Pope
was, across the board, supportive of what we’re doing.  
  
Thank you.  
  
(Cross-talk by reporters.)  
  
Q    Is the U.S. supporting the hostages-for-a-ceasefire deal?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:   We should get the — we should have a ceasefire — not a
ceasefire, we should have those hostages released, and then we can
talk.  
  
Q    Any comment on the new hostages that were just released?  
  
Q    Has there been any progress on that front, Mr. President?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  (Inaudible.)  
  
3:18 P.M. ED
