---
date: '2023-10-27'
modified_time: 2023-10-30 10:30:06-04:00
published_time: 2023-10-27 22:30:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/10/27/remarks-by-president-biden-at-a-campaign-reception-4/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at a Campaign\_Reception"
---
 
Private Residence  
Washington, D.C.

5:52 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT:  Please sit down.  Sit down.   
  
My name is Joe Biden.  I’m a friend of Esther Coopersmith’s.  (Laughter
and applause.)  Esther has been helping me for a long, long, long
time.   
  
Shawn, thank you for that introduction, by the way.   
  
Esther, you’ve been a great friend for so long.  I want to say in front
of everybody, even though Jill’s not here, I love you, kid.  (Laughter
and applause.)  No, I really do.  She’s been helping me for longer than
she wants to admit.   
  
But — and, Linda, thank you for your support.  And I want to thank —
Kamala and I are incredibly, incredibly grateful to everyone here.  You
know, I wanted to acknowledge Virginia — the Virginia House
<s>Majority</s> \[Minority\] Leader, who is soon going to be the Speaker
of the House. 

Where are you, Mr. Speaker — soon-to-be?   
  
AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Right here.  Right here.  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  There you are.  (Applause.)  
  
I want you to know, you guys are sending me money, and I’m sending it to
Virginia.  (Laughter.)  
  
You know, many of you in this — this yard are trial lawyers.  I aspired
to be a trial lawyer.  I couldn’t do it, so I decided to be a senator. 
(Laughter.)  
  
As I like to say, you’re one of the few groups standing between us and
the barbarians at the gate.  And you — you’re the ones standing up to
the tobacco industry, gun manufacturers, and other corporate —
corporations that need to be held accountable.  And I really mean
that.  
  
Think of what would happen if we didn’t have a trial bar.  I’m not
joking about that.  Imagine if we hadn’t succeeded with the tobacco
industry.  
  
You know, we need your help now to end immunity from liability for gun
manufacturers.  (Applause.)  (Inaudible.)  
  
The only corporate entity in America, by law, exempted.  It’s got to
stop.  It’s got to stop.  
  
You see what’s happened recently up in — anyway, I won’t go into it. 
But it just — it just is outrageous.  You know, who the hell needs an
assault weapon that can hold up to — in some cases, up to a hundred
rounds?  You know, it’s just — there’s no reason for those — those
AR-15s other than to kill people.  They’re not designed —  
  
I — when I was able, along with Dianne Feinstein, to <s>end</s> \[pass\]
the assault weapons ban back years ago — a (inaudible) where we could
only do it for 10 years.  Then Bush got elected, and he let it lapse. 
But, you know, mass murders dropped off considerably.  Considerably.  
  
And I remember going through Delaware.  In the southern part of the
state, there’s a lot of — awful lot of duck hunting, a lot of hunters in
the state.  And I was going through, trying to make the case, because I
was running, for banning assault weapons. 

And I had a guy — so, I was walking through the swamp area — for real —
and a guy is in there fishing, and he looked at me.  He said, “Biden,
you’re going to take my damn guns away from me.”   
  
I said, “I’m not going to take your guns away.  I’m just going to take
some.”  (Laughter.)  I said — no, I’m serious.  I said, “The Second
Amendment doesn’t say you can own a cannon.  It doesn’t say you can own
a machine gun.  It doesn’t say…” — I went down the list.  
  
And he said, “Well, I need it.”  And I said, “You a hunter?”  And he
said, “Yeah.”  I said, “You must be one hell of a lousy shot.” 
(Laughter.)  No, I’m serious.  And I said, “Most deer I know in Delaware
aren’t wearing Kevlar vests.”  (Laughter.)  
  
At any rate, the bottom line is that, you know, it’s — it just is
outrageous what’s happening.  And we need you.  We need you badly.  Not
a joke.  
  
And I was proud to sign Ending Forced Arbitration for Sexual Assault and
Harassment.  We should ban forced arbitration.  We’re almost — and other
kinds of dispute as well.  You know — (Applause.)  
  
You know, I — you know, you share my belief in the importance of
increasing — increased diversity in the courts.  When I got elected, I
said a couple of things: Number one, I wanted my administration to look
like America.  And it does.  (Applause.)  
  
By the way, I was raised in — by women and with — women are a hell of a
lot smarter than I am.  So, we have more women in my Cabinet than men. 
Not a joke.  (Applause.)  
  
And I’ve been more focused on diversity backgrounds on the bench than
any president in American history.  Kamala and I have gotten 147 judges
confirmed; two thirds are women, and two thirds are people of color. 
(Applause.)  
  
We put the first Black woman on the Supreme Court.  And guess what? 
She’s smarter than the rest of them too.  (Applause.)  I made a
commitment I — no, she’s incredible.   
  
And I’ve appointed more Black women in the federal circuit courts than
every single president combined in American history.  (Applause.)  
  
I’ve gotten a heck of a lot done.  I especially want to thank Kamala for
her leadership on so many important issues. 

You know, we’re here tonight because we all believe the country faces a
clear choice in November.  We’re — we’re the only nation — the only
nation in the world founded on an idea.  Every other nation is founded
on ethnicity, religion, or whatever, but not us.  We’re founded on —
only one in the world foun- — and it’s — we don’t focus on it enough —
on an idea.  
  
“We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men and women are
created equal, endowed by…”  We never lived up to it completely, but
we’ve never walked away from it.  We’re the only one founded on an
idea.  
  
And, you know, Trump and the MAGA Republicans, they — they’ve walked
away completely from the notion — that notion.  You know, we’re not —
we’re not going to walk away on my watch, and I need your help.  
  
You know, when I made — you may remember when I ran in 2020 because
you’re the guys that got me elected.  I’m not joking.  (Applause.) 
Along with a hell of a lot of labor unions.  (Laughter.)  
  
But, look, you know, when we ran, we said that — I remember making a
speech — and you may remember it; it got a lot of criticism.  And they
asked me — they asked why I was running.  I said I was running for three
reasons: One, to restore the soul of America, because over the last four
— the previous four years, it was basically lost; secondly, to build the
country from the middle out and the bottom up, not from the top down;
and, thirdly, to unite the country.  
  
Well, you know, what happened was — and then — and then I making a
speech — I ended up making a couple of speeches, it turned out, on
democracy, because I said democracy was at risk. 

My entire career, <s>derocracy</s> \[democracy\] has never been, since
the Civil War, at risk.  But it’s at risk.  And everybody thought that’s
an exaggeration.  The columnists — they don’t do it anymore — talked
about, “Well, that’s an exaggeration.”   
  
Except, you know what?  Sixty-seven percent of the American people
agreed with me that democracy was at risk.  
  
When I left the vice presidency at the end of the Obama-Biden
administration, I had no intention of running for president or office
again.  I had just lost my son Beau to burn pits in — in Iraq.  He was
there a year.  And — and Charlottesville — then Charlottesville
happened.  
  
And I don’t know if you remember what happened — people coming out of
the woods, carrying torches — out of fields literally carrying torches
down in Charlottesville.  Nazi swastikas accompanied by the Ku Klux Klan
and white supremacists, and singing the same vicious, antisemitic bile
that was sung in Germany in the ‘30s.  And a young woman was killed.  A
young woman was killed.  And I met her mom — I spoke to her mom.  And
she was a bystander.  
  
And they asked my predecessor, the guy who may be my opponent this time,
what he thought.  Remember what he said?  Not joking.  He said, “There
are very fine people on both sides.”  “Very fine people on both
sides.”  
  
What president since the time going back to the Civil War has said
anything like that?  “Very fine people on both sides.”  
  
Well, let me tell you something: That’s when I decided I should run. 
Because I’m the antithesis of this guy who held office.  And I really
wasn’t going to run, I swear to God, because, as I said, I just lost my
son.  He’s the one who should be standing here talking to you — the
attorney general and decorated war hero — not me.  
  
But I got a call from — we have a tradition in my family that my dad
started that any child — and this is literally — I mean, literal — any
child can ask for a family meeting, and it’s taken seriously.  And if
they ask for a family meeting — only 11 times that I can remember since
I’ve been born that I remember it happening.  
  
And my granddaughters asked for a family meeting.  It was on a
Thursday.  One was a senior at Columbia Law School; two or three were at
Penn.  Anyway, they’re all bright kids.  And they came down, and we met
in my — our house in Delaware.  
  
And they said, “Pop, you’ve got to” — they call me “Pop” — “Pop, you’ve
got to run.”   
  
And I said, “It’s going to be ugly, honey.  I don’t — I’m not sure…” 
Because I wasn’t sure I wanted to put them through it.  Their whole
lives, they had either had a father who was an attorney general or a — a
grandfather who was a senator or a vice president or a presi- — or a
vice president.  
  
And they said, “You got to run.”  They gave me all the reasons for
wanting to — why I should run.  And my youngest one, who’s now a senior
in high school, named after — he’s my — he’s the son of my deceased
son.  His name is Hunter Biden.   And Hunter said, “Pop, we know it’s
going to be ugly.”   
  
And he took out his cell phone — it’s the truth — took out his cell
phone, and he opened it up — not opened it.  It wasn’t open — it wasn’t
a flip phone; it was a regular phone.  (Laughter.)  And he showed me a
photograph of me walking out of St. Anthony’s Catholic Church in
Delaware — excuse me, St. Joseph’s Catholic Church in Delaware with a
military funeral with my hand on the casket, dra- — flag-draped coffin
with my son about to be buried, because he is — he had won the Citizen —
the Bronze Star.  Anyway —  
  
And I had my hand on my little <s>son</s> \[grandson\] Hunter like I
used to hold my son Beau in church, and I had my hand under his chin
holding him.  Know what the caption read?  It said, “Biden molests
another child.”  
  
As so, he said, “We know it’s going to be mean, Pop, but you got to
run.”  And that’s when I decided to run.  
  
And as I said, one of the reasons I did — ran was to try to restore the
soul of this country.  We are not who that last guy was.  We were in the
battle for the soul of America.  So, I ran because everything this
country stood for, everything we believed in, everything that made
America “America,” even our very democracy, was at risk.  
  
I think people thought I was being hyperbolic when I said — I’d get,
“Joe, what do you mean democracy is a risk?  What do you mean we’re in a
battle for the soul of America?”  Have you noticed most presidential
historians have now agreed with me?   
  
Well, people don’t say that anymore.  I don’t think anyone today doubts
democracy was at stake in 2020.  But I think it’s still at stake in
these upcoming el- — elections. 

Listen to what they’ve been saying.  Listen to what the MAGA Republicans
are talking about.  Listen to the language they use.  Listen to who they
say we are.  Listen to say — what they will do if they gain power.  
  
You know, that’s why Kamala and I are running again, because we made
progress, but our democracy is still at stake.  Because, folks, the same
man who thought there were, quote, “very fine people on both sides” in
Charlottesville, who called Hezbollah “very smart” — “Hezbollah is very
smart” — who recently on more than one occasion has made jokes about the
assault on Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s husband.   
  
Now, there are a lot of reasons Donald Trump shouldn’t be president, but
this one may be the <s>rest</s> \[best\] reason of all.  Folks, Kamala
and I are asking the entire nation to join us in sending the strongest,
clearest, most-powerful message possible that political violence is
never, never, never, never, never acceptable in America.  Never. 
Never.  (Applause.)  
  
And Donald Trump and the MAGA Republicans are determined to destroy this
democracy.  And while MAGA Republicans in the House have been fighting
among themselves, struggling to elect a Speaker until just now, trying
to shut down the government, sowing division at every turn, Kamala and I
are always going to defend, protect, and fight for our democracy. 
That’s why we’re running.  It’s that basic. 

This country we live in is so special.  Kamala and I don’t believe
America is a dark, negative nation of carnage, driven by anger, fear,
and revenge like the other team does.   
  
And think of what they say.  Think of — just listen to what they say.  
  
And, by the way, I’ve been serving in the Congress for 270 years.  You
know, I’ve been around a long time.  (Laughter.)  
  
But all kidding aside, you know, there’s a lot of — this is not your
father’s Republican Party.   
  
Many of you know me well.  I was known in the United States Senate for
those 36 years as being able to bring people together and was able to do
that.  I got an award for doing that by the Congress when I was leaving
— by the Senate when I was leaving.  
  
But this is a different breed of cat.  These aren’t the same guys. 
Donald Trump — Donald Trump — think of how he’s been able to intimidate
that party.   
  
I’ve had seven senior Republicans who I served with, in the Senate
still, who have said to me — and I gave my word I’d never mention who
they were, and they don’t even know who they are — I mean, one another —
that — they made it real clear, “Joe, I agree with you, but if I — if I
join you, I’ll be defeated in a primary that Trump will put together.” 
Not a — not a lot of cour- — profiles in courage, but it’s a reflection
of reality.  You’ve seen it.  
  
To his supporters, he says things like, “I’m your retribution.”  “We’re
a failing…” — these are quotes.  “We’re a fail- — we’re a failing
nation.”  “Either they win, or we win.  If we win — if they win, we — we
no longer have a country.” 

Did you ever think you’d hear those words coming out of a sitting
president’s mouth or someone seeking that office?  
  
Folks, that’s what’s at stake.  Democracy is literally on the ballot. 
Kamala and I need you.  You all — and most of you, I look around here,
don’t know any better.  You’ve helped me for a long time.  (Laughter.)  
  
The first time was your fault.  (Laughter.)  
  
No, but all — all kidding aside.  I mean, we can’t tha- — I can’t thank
you enough.  We need every American who loves our democracy to join us
again in 2024.  And if we do, we’ll have done something few successive
generations have been able to do.  We will have saved democracy in
America.   
  
And I’ve never been more optimistic about America’s future.  I really
mean it.  Think about the possibilities we have. 

You know, when I wasn’t going to run, I was going to write a book —
another book on the inflection points in American history.  Almost all
of the them have been affected by fundamental changes in technology.   
  
Imagine had Gutenberg not invented the printing press.  What would have
happened in terms of the implication to Europe and to be able to
communicate with one another?  Go all the way through every single
change that’s occurred. 

We don’t have — we don’t have the means to communicate like we used to
because there’s no editors anymore.  You don’t know what’s — you know,
you don’t know what to believe when you read it.  There’s no editors
anymore.  
  
But, folks, we’re in a situation where the world is changing, and what
happens in the next four years and the last four, five, six years is
going to determine what this country looks like for the next six to
eight decades.  For real.  Just like the post-war period.   
  
We have an opportunity to unite the Middle East in a way we never
thought.  Saudi Arabia wants to deal with Israel.  I’ve been working —
at the G20 in India, I got them to all agree and vote for building a
railroad from Delhi all the way up to the — the Mediterranean through
the Middle East, including Saudi Arabia and Qatar, all the way to
Israel, and then across and pipeline it into Greece and then up.  
  
I mean — because when people share a common economic need and con- — and
consistency, they tend to work together.  
  
So, look, you know, we just have to remember who we are.  You know,
we’re the only country in the world, in my view — and, I mean — I
challenge you who are historians to tell me where I’m wrong about this —
only country in the world that’s come out of every crisis we’ve ever
entered stronger than we went in — stronger than — we’ve had serious
crises, but stronger and better organized than we went in.  That’s where
we are today.  
  
And, you know, I was talking to somebody who came up to me — and I’m not
going to mention his name; don’t want to embarrass him — in the photo
line, telling me he was talking to the U.N., and there was people
saying, “Thank you for the United States.”   
  
Folks, I’ve spent my entire career dealing with American foreign policy,
either as chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee or doing it for
Barack in his term or — as — as Vice President — my term as Vice
President, eight years, or now.

One of the things I have learned: Madeleine Albright was right.  We are
the essential nation.  That is not hyperbole.  Not Joe Biden.  We — the
President of the United States is the essent- — leader of the essential
nation.  
  
And every single leader I talk to, they — they almost come to — kind of
stand at attention.  We pull the world together.  We’ve kept NATO
together.  We’ve kept everybody together in terms of taking on Putin. 
We’re organizing the world relative to the attack on Israel.  We’re
doing — I mean, we have an opportunity, but we also have enormous
obligation.  
  
We’re the United States of America, for God’s sake.  And there’s nothing
— nothing beyond our capacity — nothing — I mean that — when we do it
together.  
  
So, my objective hasn’t changed.  I’m still running for the same reason:
to continue to build a consensus about what democracy means, continue to
try to restore the soul of this country, and to continue to work in a
way that we can deal with the fact that a minority — but a powerful
minority — on the other team doesn’t try to bring us down, doesn’t try
to turn this into some — like a circus.  
  
So, I want to thank you all for giving me another shot.  I didn’t plan
on doing this, either.  (Laughter.)  But I tell you what, I’m sure in
hell not going to walk over with Trump on the horizon.  
  
Thank you all so very, very much (inaudible).  (Applause.)  
  
6:12 P.M. EDT 
