---
date: '2023-10-24'
modified_time: 2023-10-24 20:29:51-04:00
published_time: 2023-10-24 20:29:50-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/10/24/remarks-as-prepared-for-delivery-by-national-economic-council-director-lael-brainard-on-the-right-to-repair/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks as Prepared for Delivery by National Economic Council Director Lael\
  \ Brainard on the Right to\_Repair"
---
 
Thank you all for joining us today. In the simplest terms, the right to
repair means that when something you own breaks, you should have the
right to fix it yourself or to take it to an independent repair shop.

You might ask why we care about the right to repair. President Bident
knows kitchen table economics matters most for hardworking Americans,
and having the basic right to repair electronic devices alone can save a
family [$400 a
year](https://pirg.org/edfund/wp-content/uploads/2023/04/Repair-Saves-Families-Big_USPEF_APRIL23.pdf)
on average. We will hear today how the basic right to get a product
repaired can also save farmers thousands of dollars when their tractor
breaks down and create opportunities for small independent repair shops
to thrive.

For everything from smartphones, to wheelchairs, to cars, to farm
equipment, too often manufacturers make it difficult to access spare
parts, manuals, and tools necessary to make fixes. Consumers are
compelled to go back to the dealer and pay the dealer’s price or to
discard and replace the device entirely. This not only costs consumers
money, but it prevents independent repair shops from competing for the
business and creates unnecessary waste by shortening the life span of
devices.

Research suggests that the ability to repair consumer electronics
devices could save American consumers $49.6 billion annually, reduce the
[nearly 7 million tons of annual electronic
waste](https://pirg.org/edfund/wp-content/uploads/2023/04/Repair-Saves-Families-Big_USPEF_APRIL23.pdf)
in the U.S., and support small independent repair shops.

President Biden’s call to action on the right to repair in his
[Executive Order on Promoting Competition of July
2021](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/07/09/fact-sheet-executive-order-on-promoting-competition-in-the-american-economy/)
jumpstarted a growing movement. Now federal agencies are taking action
to make it easier and cheaper to repair things you own, state
legislatures are passing laws across the country, and the private sector
is making voluntary commitments, from companies like Apple and
Microsoft.

I’m joined today by Chair Khan of the Federal Trade Commission, which
[voted
unanimously](https://www.ftc.gov/news-events/news/press-releases/2021/07/ftc-ramp-law-enforcement-against-illegal-repair-restrictions)
to ramp up enforcement of right to repair provisions, taking on cases
affecting
[grills](https://www.ftc.gov/news-events/news/press-releases/2022/07/ftc-takes-action-against-weber-illegally-restricting-customers-right-repair)
and
[motorcycles](https://www.ftc.gov/news-events/news/press-releases/2022/06/ftc-takes-action-against-harley-davidson-westinghouse-illegally-restricting-customers-right-repair-0).
I’m also joined by Janet McCabe, Deputy Administrator of the
Environmental Protection Agency, which [issued a
letter](https://files.constantcontact.com/63400020701/bfa78700-0f65-4f17-bfc8-1a9c05916b6f.pdf?rdr=true)
earlier this year affirming their support for right to repair, including
for farm equipment, and its compatibility with protecting our
environment and the Clean Air Act.

I’m also joined by Tom Perez, Senior Advisor to the President and
Director of the Office of Intergovernmental Affair, along with a
bipartisan group of state officials who have all successfully passed
right to repair laws in their states—states like California, Colorado,
New York and Minnesota. And 30 states beyond those [have introduced
right to repair bills](https://pirg.org/campaigns/right-to-repair/).
Today, the Administration is calling on other states to follow suit and
for Congress to pass national right to repair laws, as well.

Today we’ll hear from Apple, which endorsed that new California law.
Under the California law, companies will have to make the parts, tools,
and documentation needed for repairs of consumer electronic devices and
appliances available to independent repair shops and consumers at fair
and reasonable prices. California’s new law will help ensure that
consumers and independent repair businesses alike have the resources
available to safely repair their devices in a manner that does not
compromise their privacy or data security. And today, as part of this
convening, Apple is announcing that they are going to do this
nationwide. That means that whether you are in California, Maine or
Michigan, Apple will make the parts, tools, and documentation needed to
repair your Apple products available to you at reasonable prices, as
outlined in the California law. And Apple is calling for national right
to repair legislation.

We’ll also hear from Danny Wood, a Colorado farmer, who will share how a
lack of robust right to repair laws can cost farmers thousands of
dollars when your tractor breaks down. And Heather Walch, who runs a
small business in Minnesota, will share her observations about how
promoting the right to repair is important to ensure independent
businesses aren’t shut out of the market. Finally, we’ll hear from
Allstate on how consumers and businesses stand to save hundreds when
they can utilize aftermarket parts.

This is a bipartisan issue that resonates with people all over the
country. With that, I will turn to White House Director of
Intergovernmental Affairs, Tom Perez.

\###
