---
date: '2023-10-30'
modified_time: 2023-11-01 08:03:38-04:00
published_time: 2023-10-30 18:32:30-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/10/30/remarks-by-president-biden-and-vice-president-harris-on-the-administrations-commitment-to-advancing-the-safe-secure-and-trustworthy-development-and-use-of-artificial-intelligence/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden and Vice President Harris on the Administration\u2019\
  s Commitment to Advancing the Safe, Secure, and Trustworthy Development and Use\
  \ of Artificial\_Intelligence"
---
 
East Room

2:45 P.M. EDT  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon, everyone.  Please have a seat.  
  
To our president, Joe Biden; members of Congress; members of our
administration; and our private sector and civil society partners:  
  
As leaders from government, civil society, and the private sector, I
believe we have a moral, ethical, and societal duty to make sure that AI
is adopted and advanced in a way that protects the public from potential
harm and ensures that everyone is able to enjoy its benefits.     
  
Since we took office, President Biden and I have worked to uphold that
duty.  
  
Before generative AI captured global attention, President Biden and I
convened leaders from across our country, from computer scientists to
civil rights leaders to legal scholars and business leaders, all to help
make sure the benefits of AI are shared equitably and to address
predictable threats, such as algorithmic discrimination, data privacy
violations, and deep fakes.   
  
We named it the “Blueprint for an AI Bill of Rights.”   
  
After which, President Biden and I had extensive engagement with the
leading AI companies to help ensure the private sector commits to the
principles in the blueprint and to establish a minimum baseline of
responsible AI practices.    
  
We intend that the actions we are taking domestically will serve as a
model for international action, understanding that AI developed in one
nation can impact the lives and livelihoods of billions of people around
the world.   
  
Fundamentally, it is our belief that technology with global impact
requires global action.   
  
Tomorrow, I will travel to the United Kingdom to represent our nation at
the Global Summit on AI Safety.  There, we will work with our allies and
our partners to apply existing international rules and norms with a
purpose to promote global order and stability — and, where necessary, to
build support for additional rules and norms that meet this moment.   
  
Let us be clear: When it comes to AI, America is a global leader.  It is
American companies that lead the world in AI innovation.  It is America
that can catalyze global action and build global consensus in a way that
no other country can.   
  
And under President Joe Biden, it is America that will continue to lead
on AI.   
  
And there are many ways to define the leadership of our president, Joe
Biden — (the President raises his eyebrows) — as even a quick review of
his most recent  — (laughter) — as even a quick review of his most
recent victories makes clear.   
  
From creating technology innovation hubs in 31 communities across our
nation — (applause); to expanding America’s semiconductor industry —
(applause); to making the largest investment ever in climate in
America’s history.  
  
So, just a few points to say that President Biden is a leader with a
vision for our future.   
  
He has the ambition to meet the challenges of the moment here and around
the globe.  And he has the courage and skill to lead us forward,
including on AI.   
  
And with that, it is my great honor and privilege to introduce our
president, Joe Biden.  (Applause.)  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.  Please.   
  
I’m going to remind you of that.  I’m teasing.  (Laughs.)   
  
Thank you, Kamala, for that introduction and for your leadership on this
issue.   
  
Before I begin, I want to explain why I was delayed a few minutes.  I
have just spoken with President Fain of the United Auto Workers.  And
let me say a few words about the UAW and the Big Three Automakers —
Ford, General Motors, and Stellantis.  They have reached a
historic agreement and a hard-fought fai- — agreement that was really
battled for a while.  But it was all done in good faith.      
  
And these record agreements reward auto workers who gave up much to keep
the industry working and going during the financial crisis more than a
decade ago.  These agreements ensure the iconic Big Three can still lead
the world in quality and innovation.   
  
Due to the commitment and solidarity of the UAW workers willing to
exercise their right — their right to collectively bargain, they’ve won
a record contract with over — over a 30 percent increase in wages,
greater retirement security, and more paid leave, and a commitment by
the Big Three to create more full-time, middle-class jobs and invest
tens of billions more dollars in plants and factories, building an
automobiles future here in America.  (Applause.)  
  
I applaud — I applaud the UAW and the leaders of the automobile
companies for agreeing that all the workers on strike and all those who
were walking the picket lines on behalf of the UAW brothers and sisters
can come back to work immediately even before the vote is taken.    
  
Ultimately, the final word on this contract will be for the UAW
memberships themselves in the days and coming weeks as they vote.     
  
But here’s what I know and what I shared with the United Auto Workers I
met in the picket line: I’ve always believed that the middle class built
America and that unions built the middle class.  And that’s especially
the case for United Auto Workers who built the iconic automobile
industry.   
  
For too long, in my view, the economy hasn’t worked for working people
and for middle-class folks.   
  
Because when they do well, by the way, everybody does well.   
  
That’s why I came into office determined to build an economy — to build
from the middle out and the bottom up, instead of the top down.   
  
It’s a critical piece of worker power.   
  
And it’s showing how collective bargaining works by providing workers a
seat at the table to honor their contributions to their employees’ —
their employer’s success by securing pay and benefits they can raise a
family on and retire with dignity and respect.  It’s showing how
collective bargaining works for companies, how a strong relationship
between workers and management can mean record profits leading to record
contracts.   
  
We’re also seeing it across the board for the UAW workers — we’re seeing
this everywhere — rail workers, port workers, Teamsters, writers, health
workers, and workers on other industries organizing and — by collective
bargaining.   
  
Folks, look, today’s historic agreement is yet another piece of good
economic news showing something I’ve always believed: Worker power —
worker power is critical to building an economy from the middle out and
the bottom up, and so is economic growth.   
  
We just learned that our economy grew 4.9 percent in the last quarter —
the highest growth in two years — just as inflation continues to come
down.   
  
We have more to do, but we’re finally beginning to build an economy that
works for working people, for the middle class, for the entire company —
the — the entire country, including the companies.    
  
Because when we do that, the poor have a ladder up, the middle class
does well, and the wealthy still do very well.  We all do well.   
  
And that brings me to today’s announcement.   
  
Folks, I want to thank Kamala again for the work she’s done through her
entire career to protect people from harm and to promote responsible
innovation.  She’s traveling to the United Kingdom, as she pointed out,
this week, where she’ll highlight how America is setting the standard
for AI safety, security, and trust.   
  
I want to thank all of you for joining us here.  Some of you — members
of my Cabinet, members of Congress — including Senate Majority Leader
Chuck Schumer, who has been a real leader on this.  Chuck, thank you,
pal.  You’ve — and state and Sen- — and local officials; leaders in
technology, business, labor, academia, civil rights, and civil
society.   
  
And we’ll see more technol- — well, you know, I know you know this, but
we’re going to see more technological change in the next 10 — maybe the
next 5 years than we’ve seen in the last 50 years, and that’s a fact. 
And it’s the most consequential technology of our time.  Artificial
intelligence is accelerating that change.  It’s going to accelerate it
at warp speed.   
  
AI is all around us.  Much of it is making our lives better.   
  
And AI is helping the National Weather Service predict weather events,
helping Webb tech — the Webb — Webb Tel- — the Webb Telescope manage
half a million miles of galaxies away — billions of light-years away.  
  
I found out when I was turning on my phone and saw that — I thought, “my
God, what is this?  Science fiction.”  (Laughter.)  No, I’m serious. 
You — didn’t you have the same thought when you saw it?  (Laughter.)   
  
AI is helping millions of commuters find the shortest route home as
well.  (Laughter.)    
  
But, you know, in some cases, AI is making life wor- — worse.  For
example, using teenagers’ personal data to figure out what will keep
them glued to their device, AI makes social media more addictive.  It’s
causing what our Surgeon General calls a “profound risk of harm” to
their mental health and well-being.   
  
Over the past years, Kamala and I have met with a range of experts, many
of whom are here today — and I thank you for coming here today — on the
risks and the incredible opportunities of AI.   
  
One thing is clear: To realize the promise of AI and avoid the risks, we
need to govern this technology, not — and there’s no other way around
it, in my view.  It must be governed.     
  
That’s why we’re here today.   
  
I’m about to sign an executive order.  An executive order that is the
most significant action any government anywhere in the world has ever
taken on AI safety, security, and trust.   
  
This order builds on the critical steps we’ve already taken to ensuring
the AI Bill of Rights to bring together leading AI companies who agreed
to voluntarily make certain — certain commitments to make sure AI is
safe and a system is secure.   
  
With today’s executive order I’ll soon be signing, I’m determined to do
everything in my power to promote and demand responsible innovation.   
  
First, the executive order is about AI safety and security.  Today, I am
invoking what’s called the Defense Production Act that federal
government uses in the most urgent of moments, like mobilizing the
nation during — a nation in time of war or developing COVID vaccines
during the pandemic.   
  
This executive order will use the same authority to make companies prove
— prove that their most powerful systems are safe before allowing them
to be used.  I want to — before allowing them to be used.  That means
companies must tell the government about the large-scale AI systems
they’re developing and share rigorous independent test results to prove
they pose no national security or safety risk to the American people.   
  
At the same time, I will direct the Department of Energy to make sure AI
systems don’t pose chemical, biological, or nuclear risks at the same
time.   
  
Look, in the wrong hands, AI can make it easier to — for hackers to
exploit vulnerabilities in the software that makes our — our society
run.   
  
That’s why I’m directing the Department of Defense and the Department of
Homeland Security, both of them, to develop game-changing cyber
protections that will make our computers and our critical infrastructure
more secure than it is today.  And that’s why my administration has
taken decisive steps to prevent cutting-edge — these cutting-edge AI
chips from being used to undermine our national security, which is
possible.  
  
Second, the order is about making sure AI systems can earn the American
people’s trust and people’s trust around the world.  
All too often, already — it’s already happening that AI devices are
being used to deceive people.   
  
Deep fakes use AI-generated audio and video to smear reputations, speak
— spread fake news, and commit fraud.   
  
With AI, fraudsters can take a three-second — and you all know this —
three-second recording of your voice — I’ve watched one of me on a
couple — (laughter).  I said, “When the hell did I say that?” 
(Laughter.)   
  
But all kidding aside, three-second recording of your voice and generate
an impersonation good enough to fool — you know, I was going to say your
family — fool you.  (Laughter.)  I swear to God.  Take a look at it. 
It’s mind-blowing.   
  
And they can use it to scam loved ones into sending money because they
think you’re in trouble.  That’s wrong.  Everyone has a right to know
when audio they’re hearing or video they’re watching is generated or
altered by AI.    
  
Thanks to this order, the Department of Commerce is going to help
develop standards to watermark and clearly label AI-generated content. 
Just say this — that’s how it was generated: AI-generated.  That — that
way, you can tell whether it’s real and it’s not.  And when your loved
ones hear your voice on the phone, they’ll know it’s really you.   
  
Trust matters.  Trust matters.  
  
Third, this executive order is about protecting your fundamental rights
to — like privacy.  Without safeguards, AI can put your privacy at
greater risk.  That’s why I’ve called for new protections on your
personal data.   
  
With this executive order, my administration is going to help develop —
develop leading-edge technology to make those protections as strong as
possible.   
  
Look, privacy is not the only right at risk.  Without the right
safeguards in place, AI can lead to discrimination, bias, and other
abuses.   
  
That’s why, with the help of civil rights leaders here today, this order
directs several actions to protect Americans’ civil rights and their
safety.  That means clear guidance for landlords and federal contractors
and federal programs to prevent the bias in AI tools that can be used to
make decisions on whether or not someone qualifies for housing or
benefits or a job.   
  
We’ll develop the best practices for AI use to ensure fairness in the
criminal justice system as well.   
  
And, when appropriate, the Justice Department and the federal Civil
Rights offices will investigate and prosecute AI-related civil rights
violations.   
  
A fourth thing this order does: It will ensure that emerging technology
works for consumers and for workers.  For example, to protect patients,
we’ll use AI to develop cancer drugs that work better for — and cost
less.  We’ll also launch a safety program to make sure AI health systems
do no harm.   
  
To protect workers, this order directs the government to help make sure
AI isn’t used to shortchange workers.  I’ve also asked for a
comprehensive report on the potential impact of AI on the labor market
and how to help workers whose jobs have been disrupted.   
  
We’re going to support workers in every industry by defining their
rights and defending them — to a fair wage, to organize, and as these
other — more technologies emerge.   
  
And, finally, we’re going to make sure America leads the world in
innovation and attracts the top talent to stay at the cutting edge.  And
because AI’s challenges and opportunities are global, we’re going to
keep advancing American leadership globally.   
  
In meeting around — in meetings around the world, I’ve heard from
leaders, and I’ve been going around the world a lot lately. 
(Laughter.)  It’s good to be home.  (Laughter.)  
  
And we’re looking — but leaders around the world, as they approach me —
I mean it — in any country, they ask, “Is the United States going to
show the way in AI?  Will the Un- — United States lead?”  I’m sure
Kamala is going to hear this when she’s in the United Kingdom later this
week.   
  
And we’ll continue to work closely with allies and partners, including
the United Nations, the G7 — and the G7, which just set out the
first-ever international code of conduct to safely guide AI
development.  
  
Look, let me be clear: This executive order represents bold action, but
we still need — we still need Congress to act.  We need Congress to
act.   
  
I want to thank — I just want to thank Senate Majority Leader Chuck
Schumer here.  Chuck, you’ve been — you’ve taken the reins on this issue
like no one else could.  You’ve developed legislation to harness the
power of AI while keeping Americans safe.  Tomorrow, I look forward to
meeting with you and the bipartisan group that you’ve put together to
bring down to the White House to underscore the need for congressional
action.   
  
I’m going to continue to call on Congress to pass bipartisan legislation
to stop Big Tech from collecting personal data on our kids and teenagers
online; to ban — (applause) — to ban targeting advertising to children;
to limit — (applause) — the personal data these collectors — these —
these companies collect on us.   
  
Folks, let me close with this.  We face a genuine inflection point in
history, one of those moments where the decisions we make in the very
near term are going to set the course for the next decades.  And with
the position we lead the world, the toughest challenges are the greatest
opportunities.   
  
Look, there’s no greater change that I can think of in my life than AI
presents as a potential: exploring the universe, fighting climate
change, ending cancer as we know it, and so much more.   
  
As artificial intelligence expands the boundary of human possibility and
tests the bounds of human understanding, this landmark executive order
is a testament to what we stand for: safety, security, trust, openness,
American leadership, and the undeniable rights endowed by our Creator
that no creator — no creation can take away, proving once again that
America’s strength is not just the <s>power of its example</s> \[example
of its power\] but the <s>example of its power</s> \[power of its
example\].   
  
Look, I know we can meet this moment with hope and not fear because of
all of you — and I mean it sincerely — because all of you here today,
many of you are the originators of this technology.  And all across
America, the people are focused on this.   
  
You’re the reason why — and I mean this sincerely — you’re the reason
why I’ve never been more optimistic about America’s future.   
  
We just have to remember who in God’s name we are.  We’re the United
States of America.  And there is nothing — nothing beyond our capacity
when we do it together.  
  
So, God bless you all.  And may God protect our troops.  Thank you,
thank you, thank you.  (Applause.)   
  
Now, I’m going to go over and sign that.  
  
Thank you, thank you, thank you.  (Applause.)  
  
The executive order, Safe, Secure, and Trustworthy Development and Use
of Artificial Intelligence.  
  
(The executive order is signed.)  
  
Thank you.  (Applause.)  
  
(The President departs the podium.)  
  
Q    Mr. President, how concerned are you about the rise in
antisemitism?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Very concerned.  
  
Q    Can you — and the mob at the Russian airport —  
  
Q    Do you agree with Netanyahu?  
  
Q    The mob at the Russian airport, Mr. President –- your response?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Oh, I didn’t (inaudible) –- today?  
  
Q    No, over the weekend.  Your response to the antisemitic mob at the
Russian airport?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  (Inaudible.)  
  
3:08 P.M. EDT  
