---
date: '2023-10-17'
modified_time: 2023-10-23 19:14:49-04:00
published_time: 2023-10-17 20:23:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/10/17/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-in-a-moderated-conversation-with-maria-theresa-kumar-and-jay-ellis-during-the-national-fight-for-our-freedoms-college-tour/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris in a Moderated Conversation with Maria Theresa\
  \ Kumar and Jay Ellis During the National \u201CFight for Our Freedoms\u201D College\_\
  Tour"
---
 
*Northern Arizona University  
Flagstaff, Arizona*

1:54 P.M. MST  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  NAU!  (Laughs.)  (Applause.) 

Oh, come, let’s sit down.  (Laughs.)

Good afternoon, everyone.  It is so good to see everyone.  Good
afternoon.  And to my friends, good afternoon.

MS. KUMAR:  Good afternoon.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  But can we just get a shout out for President
Maria, who is doing extraordinary work?  (Applause.)

Hi.  (Laughter.)

MS. KUMAR:  It is absolutely wonderful to be here in Flagstaff, Arizona
with the Vice President.  Madam Vice President, thank you for being
here.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Of course.

MS. KUMAR:  So I have to share with you, we were driving up from Phoenix
yesterday, and to see the topography and the changes and then get to
Flagstaff, you guys are living in a gem of a piece of America.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.  (Applause.)

MS. KUMAR:  You really are  
.  
And, Madam Vice President, you have been traversing all of the country
talking to young people because it is a core of what we believe in
democracy, is the more young people that participate, they change the
country.   
You’ve been to Morehouse.  You’ve been to community colleges, trade
schools.  Now you’re here in Arizona at Northern Arizona University, an
Hispanic-Serving Institution, because it was a collective effort.  And
as you’re traversing the country, you’re meeting with all these
different individuals about the power of them and their vote.  
And, you know, something that’s a fun fact that people may not know,
that in 2020, young people participated in record number.  (Applause.)

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  I know.

MS. KUMAR:  Record number.

And instead of getting us excited and knowing that we’re going to —
we’re expecting 12 million more Gen Z-ers to join the ranks of eligible
voters this election.  (Applause.)  
  
Instead of every single elected official applauding that effort and
recognizing the strength of our democracies by our participation —
instead, we find these individuals trying to infringe on our rights.  
  
Instead of applauding, they’re saying, “No, let’s infringe on your
rights so you can’t participate.”  And I think it’s because they’re
scared of the power of young folks.   
  
So, talk to us why you established this tour and why you’re here
today.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Absolutely.  Well, first, I want to thank you guys
for being with me, because this is such an important conversation that
we are having.  And I want to thank all of you who are here.  
  
Let me just start with this.  One of the reasons that I decided to do
this tour is because of who you are, the students who are here.  Yours
is an extraordinary generation of people.  
  
You know, when I think about what you have been through in your
lifetime, you have only known the climate crisis.  In your lifetime, you
have had to endure active shooter drills.  In your lifetime, you
witnessed the mor- — murder of George Floyd.  In your lifetime, you
witnessed the highest court in our land take a constitutional right that
had been recognized.  In your lifetime, you endured through an historic
pandemic.  
  
And you are still standing and leading, and you are here, strong, and
saying, “I’m not going to leave this stuff up to anybody else.  I’m not
having it.  I am prepared to lead.”  That is who you all are.  
  
And so, I am here to tell you — and I say this as Vice President of the
United States — your nation is counting on you.  We need you.  And,
personally, I want for you to be able to live your best life.  
  
In the midst — as Maria has said, in the midst of what I believe to be a
full-on agenda and intention to attack fundamental rights and freedoms —
hard-won, hard-fought fundamental rights and freedoms.  And so, I’m
doing this tour to hear from you and to talk with you about what I know
you know is at stake and also to remind you that it doesn’t have to be
this way.  
  
When I talk about fundamental freedoms, fundamental rights, it is the
freedom to have access to the ballot box, the freedom to love the person
you love openly and with pride.  (Applause.)  
  
It is the freedom to make your — decisions about your own body and not
have the government tell you what you’re supposed to.  (Applause.)  
  
It is about the freedom to live free from fear, from hate, from bigotry,
from bullying.  And, fundamentally, when I think about this issue about
freedom, fundamentally, it is about the right to be free to just be —
the freedom to just be.  
  
So, that’s how I think about this tour.  That’s how I think about what
we are fighting for, not against.  And that’s how I think about your
generation and your leadership and why it is so important knowing that
here, at this premier academic institution, you’ve already decided to
lead.  And of the many ways that you are going to make a difference, one
of the ways is to exercise your power to vote.  
  
So, that’s why I’m doing this.  (Applause.)  
  
MR. ELLIS:  Madam Vice President, I don’t know if — if you know this — I
know you have 2 billion people in your office who probably tell you 200
million things — and you retain all of it, I know, because I’ve seen —
but I actually spent a lot of time in northern Arizona.  I lived in
Prescott, Arizona — Prescott like a biscuit — (applause) — after I
graduated from college.  So, I have spent some time up here with the
Lumberjacks.  (Applause.)  
  
And this is a very strong community of folks and folks who come
together, and I want to take this moment to make sure we throw some
questions out to some students.  
  
Julian, if you are — (applause) — Julian Bernhardt —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  There.  There’s Julian.  
  
MR. ELLIS:  There we go.  
  
Q    Do I get to hold this?  Give me a second, I got to get situated,
y’all.  (Laughter.)  
  
It’s an honor to speak to you today, Vice President Harris.  Truly, I
mean that from the bottom of my heart.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.  
  
Q    I have had to fight for our future in this country.  From attacks
on our democracy to attacks on my individual identity, this story is
shared by almost everyone in this generation.  However, in this fight,
young voters do not feel optimistic about politics or the future.  And
as an activist, I tell people that hope wins.  We must be hopeful about
the future and the power we hold.   
  
Can you offer some words of hope to young voters in this state about the
power of their vote and how we stay optimistic about the future? 
(Applause.)  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  (Laughs.)  Well, Julian, you are one of the reasons
I am optimistic about our future.  I truly — (applause) — truly — truly,
I mean that.  I mean that.  I know what you’re doing with your
leadership, and it’s extraordinary how you’re lifting up so many
voices.  And — and truly, this — this college tour makes me
optimistic.  
  
But, you know, I mean, on the issue of voting rights, listen, as Maria
Teresa said, there is a full-on attack on voting rights.  So — so let’s
put it in context.  And I’m just going to go recent history, 2020.  How
many of you voted in 2020 or 2022?  (Applause.)  
  
Because you voted, Joe Biden is President of the United States and I am
Vice President of the United States.  (Applause.)  Because you voted. 
Because you voted.  
  
Because you voted, we were able to come in office and then do things
like say student loan debt is something we need to tackle because we
have far too many of our students, especially first-generation college
students, Pell Grant recipients, who are burdened by this debt to the
point that they can’t live a life.  And so, we are taking that on.  The
Court tried to — well, did undo what we did.  We’re going to still keep
fighting.  But because you voted, we have engaged in loan forgiveness.  
  
Because you voted, we have now capped the cost of insulin at $35 a
month.  Raise your hand if you have a — (applause) — a relative who has
diabetes.  Look at these numbers.  
  
And what that means — Latinos are 60 — 70 percent more likely to be
diagnosed with diabetes; African Americans, 60 percent more likely to be
diagnosed with diabetes.  And so many of our seniors and the stories we
have heard for years who have had to make a decision about whether they
could pay for their insulin or pay their rent.  And we, because you have
voted, have now capped the cost of insulin at $35 a month.  
  
Because you voted, we took on the issue of lead pipes, which are
producing toxic water that our babies have been drinking and having an
impact on their health and their ability to learn.  We are now on track
of getting rid of all lead pipes in our country.  
  
Because you voted and said, “During the pandemic, it was not right that,
if we didn’t have access or couldn’t afford high-speed Internet, we
couldn’t do our homework.”  That in the 21st century, access to
high-speed Internet is not a luxury, it is a right that all people are
entitled to.  And because you voted, we are now on path to make sure
that it is accessible and affordable to all families.  (Applause.)  
  
Because you voted, we passed the first meaningful gun safety legislation
in 30 years.  And I could go on and on.  But it’s because you voted.  
As Maria Teresa said, in 2020, we had record number of young voter
turnout.  And here’s the byproduct of that: It scared some people.  
  
And so, you saw that almost immediately after that election, laws were
being passed to purposely make it more difficult for people to vote. 
Can you imagine?  Purposely trying to make it more difficult for people
to exercise their civic right to have a voice in their government and
the future of their country.  Laws that have been passed in states like
Georgia that make it illegal to give people food and water when they
stand in line to vote.   
  
The hypocrisy abounds.  What happened to “love thy neighbor”?  Period. 
(Applause.)  Period.  
  
Laws being proposed in a variety of states around our country trying to
make it more difficult for students to vote, playing games with student
IDs and whether — and which IDs qualify to allow you to present yourself
and your eligibility to vote.   
  
So, let’s also understand — Julian, and you raised such an important
point — when we talk about the importance of voting, it is absolutely
about your voice being expressed through your vote.  When we talk about
the importance of voting, it is important to remember that generations
of people fought and some died for your right to vote.  
  
It is also important to remember that is one of the ways that you will
make a difference in our country.  And it is important to remember that
there are some people who are purposely trying to make it more difficult
for you to vote so that you won’t vote.  
  
And so, I’m here to say: Let’s never let anybody silence us.  Let us
never let anybody silence us and our power.  (Applause.)  
  
MR. ELLIS:  You know, Madam Vice President, talking about that voice and
not letting someone silence us, you often talk about how fundamental
rights and freedoms are connected.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.  
  
MR. ELLIS:  And, you know, this makes me think of the LGBTQ community —
right? — which is a community that experiences hatred and
disproportionate —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Increasing.  
  
MR. ELLIS:  — attacks, increasingly, to your point.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.  
  
MR. ELLIS:  And this struggle is not new to you.  This fight is not new
to you.  It’s something you did in the Bay.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.  
  
MR. ELLIS:  It’s something you did in Congress and now, obviously, where
you sit today as Vice President.   
  
I’m curious, as you travel the country, what are you seeing, and how can
we continue to fight?  And how can we continue to love thy neighbor —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.  
  
MR. ELLIS:  — and protect our brothers and sisters who are being
attacked?  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So, context and to your point about my history with
this work: First of all, my parents met when they were active in the
Civil Rights Movement back in the day when, you know, they were out
there marching and shouting for justice and for equality and for
freedom.  So, I grew up in that movement as a young child who they would
take to the marches in a stroller.  (Laughs.)  
  
When — and I was, then, when I was District Attorney of San Francisco,
proud, in 2004 — I know a lot of you were not born then.  (Laughter.)  
  
Back in the olden days in 2004, I was proud to be one of the first
elected officials to perform same-sex marriages in the United States. 
(Applause.)  Proud.  
  
And I will tell you that that was not a politically popular thing to do
with many people, including some Democrats.  
  
I think about it now, and next year will actually be the 20th
anniversary of that Valentine’s weekend when I performed those
marriages.  And I think of it in the context of places like Florida,
with laws that are about “Do not say gay” — “Don’t say gay”; laws that
are basically punishing people for being themselves and loving who they
love; laws that are having an impact on teachers and telling them what
they can talk about in the classroom and who they can love.   
  
Because here’s the thing, when I think about what’s happening in Florida
— so, 20 years ago next year — it’ll be the 20th anniversary.  The young
teachers in Florida are in their 20s, and they are afraid in this year
to put up a photograph of themselves with their partner for fear they
might lose their job, the job of one of the most noble things anyone can
do, which is to decide to teach other people’s children.  (Applause.)   
  
And as it is, they don’t get paid enough.  (Applause.)  
  
And you lo- — you see what’s happening: the — the vilification, the
intent to — you know, the book bans.  Check out the book bans and — and
how many of them are against either an LGBTQ+ author or have subject
matter that is about LGBTQ+ subjects and people.  
  
You look at being — the attempt to take us backward in a way that is
also meant to marginalize people and make them feel small and to judge
people and the hate that it is fueling.  And it pains me to know that in
places around our country, we have so many people who are living in fear
just because of who they are in this year of our Lord, 2023.  
  
And it’s interesting because — so, here’s one thing I’m going to share
about myself: I’m kind of a geek.  (Laughter.)  
  
MS. KUMAR:  Yeah.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So, to that extent, one of the things I love are
Venn diagrams.  (Laughter and applause.)  I love Venn den- — Venn
diagrams.   
  
So, the three — you can pull out a Venn diagram to help you with
anything that looks like it’s in conflict, right?  So, a Venn diagram —
so, I asked my team, “Let’s — let’s look at from which states are we
seeing attacks against LGBTQ+ people, attacks against voting rights,
attacks against access to reproductive health care?”  You would not be
surprised to know that there’s a significant overlap.  
  
So, part of what that then tells you — and here’s the — the optimism —
about, in the midst of this, what is possible: coalition building. 
Bringing together all the folks who have been fighting for LGBTQ+ rights
together with the people who have been fighting for years in terms of
women’s health issues and reproductive health care access.  All of the
people who have been fighting for years on voting rights, and bringing
folks together who seemingly have nothing in common, but have everything
in common.  
  
Because on this issue of the attacks against the LGBTQ+ community, part
of what I have to say is I strongly believe that nobody should be made
to fight alone.  And it is incumbent on us who believe in the strength
of diversity and the importance of unity to build coalition.  Because
among the intents out there in terms of the attacks on fundamental
freedoms, I believe is an intent to try to divide us as a nation and to
distract us from the failure of so-called leaders who ain’t doing
nothing that is about uplifting our country and creating progress and
the expansion of rights.  
  
So, let’s not allow ourselves to be divided or distracted.  And one of
the best ways to fight against that is to build community, build
coalition, including on the issue of what is happening in terms of
attacks against trans folks, attacks against the LGBTQ community as a
whole.  
  
Let’s bring everybody together.  Nobody should be made to fight alone. 
(Applause.)  
  
MR. ELLIS:  Madam Vice President, I think we’re going to hear from
another Lumberjack.   
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Okay.  
  
MR. ELLIS:  Jonathan Otero.  (Applause.)  
  
Q    Thank you.  Thank you, Madam Vice President.  To begin, I must
thank you for being a true champion of young voices.  As, you know, I
was studying a little bit of film on a couple of the campuses you
visited, and one thing that stayed consistent was to never silence our
voices.  And so, I thank you.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Jonathan.  
  
Q    And I want you, as well, to honor that today.  As a proud Chicano,
aspiring educator, I must ask a question that relates to the lives and
experiences of my students.  This administration has continued to deport
children and their families while simultaneously building the wall. 
Children continue to die at the wall because of this country’s inhumane
policies, much like the policies, crimes, and committed — funded against
those in Palestine.  (Applause.)  
  
Forty-seven families in Gaza have been completely removed from the Civil
Registry since the bombing began, meaning genocide.  These families
don’t exist anymore.  A U.N. school was bombed last week by Israel,
killing 30 students and 11 U.N. staff.  Just today, I know y’all saw the
news.  Today, Israel bombed the last Christian hospital in Gaza, killing
over 500 doctors, children, and refugees.  
  
You know, my grandpa, Arnold Otero, who is in the audience today, told
me one thing growing up as an educator, and that is that no one can ever
take away your right to education.   
  
And so, I asked you today, Madam Vice President Harris, as an educator,
why take away the life of the children in Gaza and at the border, which
ultimately takes away the fundamental right of education?   
  
Thank you.  (Applause.)  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So, you’ve brought up a lot of issues, and there’s
a lot to unpack.   
  
Let us start with this.  I absolutely understand and it is my lived
experience with the first subject that you raised to know that this is a
nation that was founded by immigrants.  I am the child of a mother who
came to the United States by herself when she was 19 years old, and I
sit here as Vice President of the United States.  I am acutely aware of
the connection between immigrants and who we are as a country.  And I
feel very strongly about the importance of always recognizing America’s
history and current responsibility to acknowledge that.  
  
I will also say that it is important that we have a safe, orderly, and
fair immigration system.  When Joe Biden and I came into office, the
first piece of legislation — I think it was the day after inauguration —
that we proposed was pathway to citizenship.   
  
And Republicans in Congress have purposely not picked it up because they
have decided it is in their political best interest to create an issue
in a way that they can then politicize and play games with — and play
games with the lives of people, many of whom are fleeing or have fled
harm or just a basic inability to take care of themselves and their
families.  
  
And part of our immigration system has always recognized the importance
of being a place where people who have a legitimate fear of harm can
receive and seek, at the very least, asylum.  So, that’s how I feel on
the issue of immigration.  
  
On the issue of what is happening in the Middle East, I believe that
Israelis and Palestinians both deserve peace, deserve
self-determination, and deserve safety.  (Applause.)  
  
I am deeply, deeply affected, as I think we all are, by what we have
seen in terms of the loss of life and the violence that has occurred
when, first of all, a terrorist organization, Hamas, struck Israel in
the way that it did.  I think it is important to recognize also the
distinction between a terrorist organization, Hamas, and the Palestinian
people and civilians.  (Applause.)  And they should not be conflated.  
  
And we must have a response to that in a way that we understand, as
humans, that this suffering that is happening is something we must take
seriously.  So, I appreciate you raising the subject, and I appreciate
your leadership.  
  
     Q    (Inaudible.)  
  
     AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Yeah!  
  
     AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Thank you!  Thank you!  
  
     Q    (Inaudible.)  
  
     AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Stop talking and do something!  
  
     Q    (Inaudible.)  
  
MS. KUMAR:  So, I think one of the things that we have —  
  
AUDIENCE MEMBER:  (Inaudible.)  
  
MS. KUMAR:  No, I think something that — one of the reasons that, from
what I understand, why you’re going on tour is that you have been very
specific that the Biden agenda, the Harris agenda has started but is not
complete.  And if you are to look around, this is the coalition that
brought the Vice President and the President into office.   
  
And if you look at — around, it’s a multicultural, intersectional group
of Americans that stepped into the ring.  And what makes Arizona so
critical is that, in the last election — I’ll give you an example: Voto
Latino helped register and turnout 32,000 voters here in Arizona. 
(Applause.)  Nineteen thousand  were first-time voters.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yep.  
  
MS. KUMAR:  And the state delivered to the Biden and Harris
administration by less than 12,000 voters.  So, follow with me.  We’re
expecting 163,000 young Latinos to turn 18 between now and the next
election.  And what we know is that that’s more than 10 times than the
margin of victory in this state.   
  
And we also know at Voto Latino is that the top three issues for young
Latinos in Arizona is absolutely the economy, abortion access, and
immigration as it relates specifically to the undocumented loved ones,
DACA, essential workers, and TPS.  
  
You have done a fabulous job with the Biden administration of addressing
the top issues that young people went to the polls last time.  And what
I mean by that is that, for the very first time, we have over a
half-a-trillion-dollar investment in climate action — climate change.   
  
We also recognize that gun violence prevention program that you put
together is also something that’s resonating deeply.   
  
You spoke about — a little bit about student loans.   
  
But I think on everybody’s mind is, when we hear the administration talk
about how the agenda is not finished, many reasons that we saw not a red
wave during the midterm elections, but an intersectional wave,
particularly of young people —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.  
  
MS. KUMAR:  — getting into that ring was because they were trying to
take — and, in some states, taking away — a woman’s right to choose.   
  
So, as we get into this new election season, young voters are going to
be asking these questions.  What is the unfinished agenda for young
voters?  What is the unfinished agenda that we would like to see the
administration finish?  I think we heard one was immigration.  The other
is codifying abortion rights.   What can we expect, and how — how can
young people in this room help achieve the second part of what needs to
be accomplished?  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So, one piece I will tell you is this: I’m not here
to tell these young voters what they want.  I’m here to listen.  And
that is why I appreciate a candid dialogue — (applause) — about all of
the issues of the moment.  
  
But let’s talk a bit about — to your point about the abortion issue. 
Part of what is at play is that — the injustice of it all, in the fact
that the highest court in our land, the court of Thurgood Marshall and
RBG, took a constitutional right that had been recognized from the
people of America, from the women of America.   
  
And one of the things I would encourage the students here to do — I know
you do it every day — is when you are being presented with policy,
really think about how it affects real people every day.   
  
So, on this issue, since that case came down just over a year ago, there
are people in our nation all over our country who have been silently
suffering.  Because, you see, after that case came down, there are laws
that have been proposed and passed, that do things like, here in
Arizona, say that there’s no exception, even for rape or incest.  
  
Now, everybody is grown here.  We can have difficult conversations.  So,
understand what that means.  And I’ll tell you in terms of a personal
story.   
  
When I was growing up, my best friend in high school, I learned, was
being molested by her stepfather.  And as you all know, I — I started my
career as a prosecutor.  That was one of the reasons why.  I wanted to
do the work that was about protecting women and children from harm.  And
so, I know those kinds of cases.  I specialized in those kinds of
cases.  
  
The idea that someone would propose and pass a law that makes no
exception for rape or incest means this: It means that these extremists
are telling a survivor of a crime of violence to their body, a survivor
of a violation to their body that what happens to their body next is not
their choice.  That’s immoral.  It’s immoral.  
  
What’s happening in our country is people are proposing and passing
laws, these extremist so-called leaders, that are penalizing healthcare
providers literally with jail time, prison time.  Punishing women. 
Understand what it means for women who are living in these states with
these laws, and understand that the majority of women who seek abortion
care are mothers.  
  
Well, hopefully, she has paid family leave, which we can’t take for
granted.  That’s one of the things we’ll continue to fight for. 
Hopefully, she has paid family leave, sick leave.   Hopefully, she has
affordable childcare.  Can’t take that for granted.  We’ve been fighting
for that.  Hopefully, she only works one job and not two or three.  
  
Because what this then means is that she has to come out of pocket to
figure out, one, how she’s going to have care for her children; come out
of pocket with a plane, a bus, a train ticket to go to a different state
where she doesn’t know anyone — the expense of it all also means she’s
probably not going to be able to take a family member or a friend — to
exercise a right that fundamentally she has.   
  
And I will say, on this topic, it is important to agree: One does not
have to abandon their faith or deeply held beliefs to agree the
government should not be telling her what to do with her body. 
(Applause.)  
  
It is fundamental.  Fundamental.  
  
And so, here’s the thing that connects it with the earlier point about
voting.  What we simply need are a majority of people in the United
States Congress, who, whatever their personal belief, also agree the
government should not be telling folks what to do with their body.   
  
And if we have that majority, President Biden has been clear: If they
propose a law that puts back in place the protections of that case, Roe
v. Wade, Joe Biden will sign that into law.  Elections matter.   
  
You have here in this state an attorney general and a governor who are
holding it down in spite of these people in the legislature who are
trying to go against their rights.  (Applause.)  
  
Elections matter.  And for anyone who’s not registered to vote, I will
ask you to go to Vote.gov.  See if you are registered.  Tell your family
members.  And register to vote.  For many of these cases that we are
discussing, who is in elected office at a local, a state, and a federal
level literally will determine the outcome of this issue.  
  
MS. KUMAR:  And I think something to really underscore is that Arizona
is ground zero for our democracy. We are right now litigating before the
court against the legislation that is 2492.  For folks who don’t know
that, they want people doing the good work on the ground to ask someone
for their citizenship before they register them to vote.  We’re onto
them.   
  
And that’s why it’s important when the Vice President asks for you to
have conversations with your friends and family to get in the game. 
Because those people that are telling you that voting doesn’t matter,
you better believe it that they’re sending in their voting.  You better
believe that they’re standing in line, because they understand that when
you occupy the voting booth, you occupy the sections of power.  
  
And this is why I think it’s so important to have conversations and to
learn more about what you’re saying about a listening tour.   
  
So, with that, I’d like to have another question from the audience.  And
his name is Makias Marks \[ph\] — Makias Marks.  (Applause.)  
  
Where are you Makias?  
  
Q    Is this on?  
  
MS. KUMAR:  Hi, Makias,  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  There he is.  
  
Q    Oh, it’s all good.  I get a lot that.   
  
MS. KUMAR:  No, my apologies.  I did practice beforehand, and I still
killed it.  Sorry.  (Laughs.)  
  
Q    No, I appreciate it.  I appreciate it.  
  
So, what was I going to do this?  So, real quick.  (Speaks in another
language.)  (No translation provided.)  And I’m pretty sure you didn’t
really catch that.  So, let me translate that for you: Now tuned in to
the ancestral greatest, I am near the waterborne for Edgewater.  My
mother’s father is Red Bottoms people, and my father’s father is the
people’s coming home.   
  
My name is Makias Marks.  And, again, it’s an honor to be here with all
of you.  It’s a beautiful community.  And Vice President, I know when I
was in the photo line with you, I froze when I shook your hand. 
(Laughter.) I was like, “Oh, this is the Vice President.”  And I was in
the same line of the Hopi chairman and as well as the — thank you — as
well as the Navajo Nation president.  And I was just like, “Whoa, I’m
actually here.  I didn’t think I’d be here.”  (Laughter.)  
  
Like, some, like, snotty rez kid actually coming here to ask you a
question, to shake your hand.  Like, (gasps).  I — I — that’s why I
froze.   
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  (Laughs.)  
  
Q    So, thank you again, Vice President.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Of course.   
  
Q    So, this question I know reflects a lot of our communities, the
communities that we come from, and as well as, like, the tribal
leaderships that you’ve — you’ve met today. And I know you didn’t get to
meet, like, all 14 tribes’ leadership, but I’m sure this question
pertains to them.  
  
We’re here on sacred land, and when it comes to, like, this nation going
green and as well as facing, like, the climate that is changing, and
it’s impacting all of us, we need to advance to make ourselves more
resilient against the climate.  And it impacts not only Indigenous
communities, but communities of color.   
  
So, in the statement that us going green and becoming more climate
resistant, how do we protect — protect sacred sites and communities of
color from the extractive industries that are coming in to mine lithium,
to mine copper, to mine things that exist in our phones?  How do we
protect those communities of color to protect their sacred sites and to
protect their homes?  And whatever answer you give, I’m sure that is the
answer.   
  
So, thank you.  (Laughter.)  And thank you, Sarah.  (Applause.)  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Makias, thank you.  Well, collectively, we’ll have
the full answer.  I have part of the answer.  
  
So, first of all, it — the beginning of the conversation in terms of
what’s happening with elected leadership is this.  For many, many years,
we had people who are obstructing any smart legislation.  They were
pretending that the — that the issue of the climate crisis was not
real.  They were literally denying it.   
  
And, again, as with many of these issues, there is those of us who are
fighting for something, and then there are — there are powerful forces
often that are fighting against what we need to do in terms of
progress.  
  
But let me start with this.  The Native people, the original people of
this land here, this country, taught us something millennia ago that it
is important for us to remember: innovative, creative practices around
what we must do to honor and protect this Earth.   
  
And when I think about the leadership that has come out of these
nations, these Indian nations, around this subject, it is something I
have always taken very seriously in terms of who we include at the table
when we first convene the table as leaders on the issue of the climate
crisis.  So, I want to start with that.  
  
Part of the issue that we also have is just dealing with the fact that
this crisis is real, and we don’t have a lot of time.  The clock is not
just ticking; it is banging.   
  
So, one of the points of our leadership and coming in as an
administration is we took it seriously.  We have now put $1 trillion
into this issue over the next 10 years to build up climate resilience,
adaptation, to pay attention to overlooked and underserved communities. 
In fact, 40 percent of our resources are going to be going there.   
  
We are taking on the issue of environmental justice, something I have
worked on for years, which is about recognizing that while the climate
crisis affects everyone, it does not do so equally.  For low-income
communities, for communities of color, immigrant communities, they are
often hit the worst.  Because when you talk about the ability to build
up resilience before the extreme weather events, well, the resources
just aren’t there and historically haven’t been invested there.  
  
You talk about the ability to bounce back afterward.  Again, the
resources haven’t been there and historically have not been there.  So,
whereas higher-income communities, communities with high rates of
homeownership can then, if they had to — you know, the home got flooded,
they’ve got insurance; they can pick things back up.   
  
For the communities that don’t have insurance, that are renters, that
are living in low-income communities, the ability to bounce back is so
much slower.  And what that means in terms of their lives and
livelihoods is profound.   
  
So, all of these are part of what we are doing, including investing in a
clean energy economy.  And that means the creation of jobs, good-paying
jobs, jobs where we incorporate IBEW and the trades unions to help with
the training for the folks who are going to do the work of building back
up our resilience and our economy in that way.  
  
I would also say, again, on the issue of environmental justice, that it
is important to see what is happening in our country right now with some
extremist leaders who are attacking DEI: diversity, equity, and
inclusion.  They’re doing with that the same thing that they have been
attempting to do with “woke,” which is to turn it into a bad word and
turn it against those of us who understand the true meaning.  
  
You look at what’s happening in states like Florida, where they are
undoing DEI — diversity, equity, and inclusion — programs, where
corporations are starting to shut down a priority on those issues. 
Diversity is our strength as a country — always has been.  Gets back to
the point about immigration.   
  
Equity — well, what is the importance of equity?  It’s basic.  It’s
this: While we all want to fight for equality — everybody should get the
same amount — that doesn’t take into account the fact not everybody
starts out on the same base.  (Applause.)  
  
So, if you’re giving everybody the same amount but they didn’t start out
on the same base, they’re going to end up behind.  And equity says let’s
pay attention to that and make up for, especially, historic issues in
terms of the lack of resources being put into communities.  
  
So, when we deal with the climate crisis, it is about what we must do
with a sense of urgency, and it’s about putting the resources into it
and an acknowledgement of it.  It is about who’s at the table and making
the decisions, and it is also about fighting against an — a parallel
agenda that is about attempting to have us not prioritize or even talk
about diversity, equity, and inclusion.  (Applause.)  
  
MR. ELLIS:  Madam Vice President, we’ve talked about a lot today:
reproductive rights, voting rights, climate, immigration.  As you can
see, this is an insanely passionate group of young folks.  
  
I’m curious, what would you leave them with today?  What is the thing
that you want all of them to, like, walk out of this room knowing and to
also go, you know, turn to their neighbor and tell them?  You know what
I mean?  What’s — what’s the word that you want — you want them to walk
away with?  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Well, I’m going to — first, I want to bring up one
other topic because we’ve not talked about it, and this is yet again
another issue that this generation of leaders u- — uniquely
understands.  And it’s the issue of gun violence.  (Applause.)  
  
So, I’m going to start with this, and if the students here could indulge
me, I’m going to ask you to raise your hand and hold it up for a minute
if, at any time between kindergarten and 12th grade, you ever had to go
through an active shooter drill.  
  
And I’d ask the older adults to look around the room and the press to
take a look at this.   
  
Okay.  You can put your hands down.  
  
I don’t think that the people who are in a position right now in elected
leadership to do something about this fully understand what you guys
have been through.  
  
You know, on this subject, I have had conversations with young students
who would say to me, “Well, you know, I don’t really like going to fifth
period.”  “Why sweetheart?”  “Well, because in that classroom, there’s
no closet to hide in.”  
  
What this generation of leaders have gone through in terms of the trauma
and fear that, while they’re sitting in a classroom and their mind
should be open to all that they can learn, and there’s some piece of
them that also is afraid that somebody might bust through the room with
a gun.  
  
And I say this and bring this up to again reinforce that when you all
start voting in your numbers, this is going to change.  And part of the
problem and the issue that you will provide the solution for is this: On
this subject, there are people who are pushing a false choice which
suggests you’re either in favor of the Second Amendment or you want to
take everyone’s guns away.   
  
I’m in favor of the Second Amendment, but we need an assault weapons
ban.  (Applause.)  We need background checks, red flag laws.  It’s just
reasonable.  It’s just reasonable.  
  
It’s just reasonable.  It’s just reasonable that you might want to know
before someone can buy a lethal weapon if they’ve been found by a court
to be a danger to themselves or others.  You just might want to know. 
It’s reasonable.  
  
And so, again, I say that your role of leadership is going to make all
the difference on all of these issues, from climate to what we are doing
around social justice policy, what we are doing around immigration
policy, what we are doing around voting, what we are doing on LGBTQ
rights, what we are doing about fundamental freedoms.  
  
And so, I’ll end with answering more directly your — your question, and
what gives me optimism is all of you.  Because you are bold, you are
smart, you are courageous, you are leaders, you are acutely aware of
what is going on, what’s not right, and you have solutions.  
  
And so, my point in being here is to lift you up to have folks
understand and see and then also to remind you that you are at a very
special time in your life.  I mean, I’d ask you also to just look
around, and you are sitting next to people who will be lifelong friends
of yours.  You are sitting next to people who you will be invited to
their wedding, they may ask you to be godparent to their children.  
  
I know that makes you uncomfortable, but I’m telling you it’s going to
happen.  (Laughter.)  
  
It’s a very special time.  It’s a very special time for you.   
  
And I would just leave you, then, with a couple of pieces of advice. 
One of it is — knowing who the students at NAU are — is to say this: For
many of you, you’re going to have many experiences — you may have
already had — where you’re going to walk into a room — be it a meeting
room, a briefing room, a boardroom — and you’re going to be the only one
that looks like you in that room — (applause) — or the only one who has
had your life experience.  
  
And here’s what I want to remind you.  I want to remind you to look
around this auditorium and hold on to this image and know that when you
walk in those rooms, you are not alone and you carry us all with you,
who are applauding your presence in that room, who are expecting you to
walk in, chin up, shoulders back, carrying the voice of all those who
can’t be in that room at that time.  
  
The second thing I would say to you is that there will be many times in
your life when you are being told, “Oh, nobody like you has done that,”
or “Oh, you’re too young,” or “They’re not ready for that,” or “It’s
going to be a lot of hard work.”  Don’t you ever listen to that.  
  
I’m telling you, I eat “no” for breakfast.  I don’t hear “no” until the
10th time.  (Laughter and applause.)  
  
Don’t hear “no.”  Don’t ever hear “it can’t be done.”  Because that gets
back to the original point of this tour, which is that you have a right
to live your best life, and you must know that it doesn’t have to be
this way.  When we see injustice, when we see those who are attacking
liberty and freedom, it doesn’t have to be that way.  
  
And then I guess my last point would be this.  You know, when we talk
about our freedoms and rights, as much as anything, we’re talking about
the importance of democracy.  And there’s a duality to democracy, the
nature of it.  On the one hand, when democracies are intact, they’re
very strong in terms of what they do to fight for and protect freedom
and rights: the freedom of expression, the freedom of association,
freedom to be.  They’re very strong in lifting people up with their
rights.  
  
On the other hand, democracies are very fragile.  It’s only as strong as
our willingness — the people’s willingness to fight for it.  
  
And so, know that that’s where you come in.  And that is why your
country and we are counting on you.  This is a fight that is borne out
of love of country and our belief in the ideals on which our country was
founded, recognizing we haven’t fully reached them yet.  But it is
incumbent on each of us to fight for those ideals to make them real.  
  
And so, that’s why I’m here.  And, again, I thank all of the leaders who
are here for what you are doing.  We are counting on you, and we are so
proud of you.   
  
Thank you.  (Applause.)  
  
END                       2:47 P.M. MST
