---
date: '2023-10-26'
published_time: 2023-10-26 11:38:54-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/10/26/remarks-by-president-biden-and-prime-minister-albanese-of-australia-at-state-dinner/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden and Prime Minister Albanese of Australia at State\_\
  Dinner"
---
 
South Lawn  
(October 25, 2023)

8:55 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT:  Please have a seat.  Thank you.

Well, good evening, everyone.  The Prime Minister and I and Jodie and
members of the Australian delegation, distinguished guests: Jill and I
are honored to welcome you tonight to celebrate the historic bonds
between our two nations that’s been going on for 72 years now — an
alliance.  

During World War Two, more than 150,000 American troops were based in
Australia to fight in the Pacific Theater.  And to ensure they were
prepared to navigate Down Under, they — each one of them was given a
manual entitled — and here’s what it was entitled, “Instructions for
American Servicemen in Australia.”  I’d like to read it.  (Laughter.)

PRIME MINISTER ALBANESE:  It could be dangerous.

THE PRESIDENT:  Not all of the tips hold up today, but I thought one of
them was pretty good, and this is a quote from it: “You’ll find the
Australians… haven’t much respect for stuffed shirts, their own or
anyone else’s.”  (Laughter.)

Well, I’ve learned that my trip Down Under as well as becoming friends
with the Prime Minister.  No wonder we get along so well.  (Laughter.)

Another tip from the manual not only stands out but stands up, quote:
“Australians have been in all the hotspots wherever  the going —
whenever the going has been tough.”  End of quote.  And that’s a fact,
they have been.

You know, that commitment — (applause) — that commitment to face tough
challenges, that courage to fight for a better future, that is what has
always brought America and Australia together.

I saw this growing up with my grandfather, Ambrose Finnegan, who lost
his son in the Pacific in World War Two.  He would literally straighten
his shoulders every time Australia — the country Australia was
mentioned.  He’d just straighten up, straighten his shoulders. 

I saw it when my own son — Major Beau Biden in the National Guard, spent
a year in Iraq — told me how he could always count on Aussies to have
his back.  That’s a fact.  That’s what he had said; he meant it. 

And, you know, that Ode Remembrance promise: “At the going down of the
sun and in the morning, we will remember them.”  Period.

Look, folks, today that bond first forged on the battlefield has grown
to capture the full range of human ingenuity. 

Australian and American workers are building the future together. 
Australians and American students are — are innovating together. 
Australian and American engineers are working together to support
Artemis missions to return human beings to the moon and from there to
Mars. 

And as I saw when I visited Australia in 2016, Australians and Americans
are driving cutting-edge research to end cancer as we know it — and we
will — research that has only grown with Australia teams recently
mapping 949 cancer cell lines across 40 types of cancers.

Ladies and gentlemen, a great deal of the history of our world will be
written in the Indo-Pacific in the coming years. Australia and the
United States must — must write that story together.

We must continue to advance freedom, security, and prosperity for all;
continue the vital work of both our nations of building strong
partnerships, of upholding nation-to-nation commitments and — to Native
peoples; continue to defend the values of great democracies — freedom of
expression, freedom of religion, and freedom from fear; and continue to
build a future worthy of our highest hopes even when it’s tough —
especially when it’s tough.  For we know that’s when it matters the
most.

Mr. Prime Minister, today our two nations meet the future, emboldened
with a confidence all that’s come before.  That’s what built our
confidence: all that has brought us here and all that Australia and
America are — innovative, courageous, loyal, unwavering, bold of heart,
and resolute of spirit.  Determined that tomorrow will be better than
today.  It’ll be the most — it’ll be more than just.  It’ll be more
free, more fair, and for all people, because we have the power to make
it so.

So, please join me if I can get a gla- — here you go. Please join me in
a toast.

To our partnership, our mateship, and the future that we’ll create
together.  Cheers.

(President Biden offers a toast.)

AUDIENCE:  Cheers.

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Mr. Prime Minister, the floor is yours.

PRIME MINISTER ALBANESE:  Well, thank you very much to Mr. President and
First Lady Dr. Biden.

I must say I only have one regret about tonight, which is I’m not quite
sure how I top this for date night with Jodie — (laughter) — at any
time, anywhere in the future.  (Laughter and applause.)  It’s all
downhill from here, my darling.  (Laughter.)

Ladies and gentlemen, we live in a world that does keep changing.  Yet
one thing that keeps the ground firm beneath us is the great constant
that is the American spirit. 

America has never been held back by the unknown or slowed by
trepidation. You stride boldly towards the future, excited by all of its
possibility.  In every field of human endeavor, your nation is energized
by a ceaseless curiosity and the confidence to follow it.

It is a spirit that Australians identify with.  With a small population
but a very big imagination, we punch above our weight, all the while
drawing inspiration from our friends across the Pacific.  We stand as
close as we have ever been and, I think, after this week, closer than we
have ever been. 

We are firm allies strengthening defense cooperation through AUKUS and
creating more economic opportunities for our peoples and our region. 
Australians are always ready to play our part. 

Most importantly, our nations are close friends — friends who admire
each other’s qualities.  I think we get each other. 

And President Biden and I had our first meeting before I’d even
selected, of course, a Cabinet.  I was elected on the Saturday.  And by
Monday, I was off to the Quad Leaders Meeting.  And I do want to thank
the President for your warm welcome and that rather extraordinary
beginning on the front foot in those first days of my government.

Friends who draw strength from all we have in common, but we take joy in
our differences as well. 

Friends who look to the future together without losing sight of the
moments in the past that bind us together. 

Mr. President speaking as one man with Irish ancestry to another —
although I am also, of course, half Italian, so you don’t have to guess
my religion — (laughter) — I know you won’t object to me quoting a
Dubliner.  The familiar words of William Butler Yeats, “Things fall
apart — fall apart; the centre cannot hold” are now more than a century
old.  Yet they speak to us just as clearly now as the long contest
between democracy and authoritarianism plays out its newest chapter. 

But to capture the essence of the bond between our two nations in all of
its warmth and its easy strength, I turned to another of his poems:
“Think where man’s glory most begins and ends, And say my glory was I
had such friends.”

So, allow me to make a toast to such friends, because Australia has no
greater friend than the United States of America.  So, to the President
and First Lady, to the history our peoples have made together, but
importantly, the future we will build together as a peoples.

To friendship.

(Prime Minister Albanese offers a toast.)

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Enjoy your meal.  (Applause.)

9:05 P.M. EDT  
 
