---
date: '2023-10-24'
modified_time: 2023-10-24 19:34:30-04:00
published_time: 2023-10-24 19:34:29-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/10/24/remarks-by-president-biden-at-national-medal-of-science-and-national-medal-of-technology-and-innovation-ceremony/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at National Medal of Science and National Medal\
  \ of Technology and Innovation\_Ceremony"
---
 
East Room

12:26 P.M. EDT  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Well, welcome.  And please have a seat.  This is a happy
occasion.  We need some more happy occasions.  Thank you.  Thank you all
for being here.  
  
And welcome to the White House — your house.   
  
In 1921, Marie Curie visited the White House with President Warren
Harding, and \[he\] presented <s>him</s> \[her\] with a precious gift:
one gram of radium carefully stored and purchased with funds raised by
thousands of American women to help continue her research that would
transform everything from X-rays to cancer treatment to nuclear
energy.  
  
Twenty-four years after that visit, a girl was born in Syria.  She
dreamt of being Madame Curie, moving to Paris, and becoming a
scientist.  Then a — a family <s>member</s> \[friend\] with real wisdom
told her — (laughs) — that “if you want to dream big, dream about going
to America.  That’s where great science happens.”   
  
We’re determined to return great science to America by — we used to
invest 2 percent of our GDP in — in — of — in science and technology. 
Now we invest 0.7 percent of our GDP.  
  
And — but, anyway, she did come to America, and her name is Dr. Akil. 
She’s here today.  Doctor, where are you?  There you are.  Right on the
end.  (Inaudible.)  (Applause.)  Stand.  Stand up so everybody can see
you.  (Applause.)  Thank you.   
  
A groundbreaking scientist studying neurobiology and emotions.  We could
use that badly.  (Laughter.)  
  
Anyway, she joined 20 other Americans receiving our nation’s highest
honors in science and technology.     
  
The National Medal of Science is given for outstanding contributions to
the knowledge — to knowledge in the sciences, and the National Medal of
Technology and Innovation for outstanding contributions to the promotion
of technology for the improvement of the economic, environmental, and
social and — and social well-being of the United States.  
  
With this year’s recipients, “outstanding” may be an understatement. 
They’re extraordinary.  
  
Delivering clean drinking water and fuel-efficient heat sources to
low-income countries.    
  
Growing crops that can withstand extreme weather.  
  
Deepening our knowledge of blood vessels, <s>nerve cells</s>
\[neurons\], and molecules.   
  
Pointing the way toward new treatments for diseases like cancer and
Parkinson’s and addiction.    
  
Transforming how we live, work, and communicate by being able — by — by
helping create advanced manufacturing and expand access to the
Internet.    
  
Protecting our democracy by developing new technologies to protect the
right to vote.    
  
Making our world more accessible by creating a next-generation
wheelchair technology.    
  
Expanding — expanding our understanding of everything from the depths of
the human eye to the depths of the universe.    
  
And they have paved the way for a generation of other scientists and
inventors to pursue their own discoveries, to unlock our nation’s full
potential.  
  
To all the honorees: Thank you, thank you, thank you for your courage,
for your perseverance, and maybe most importantly for your
integrity.    
  
And thank you as well to the family members and loved ones here today. 
I want all the family members to stand.  Come on.  (Applause.)  Thank
you.  
  
I’m being a little facetious, but you know what it must have been like
growing up saying, “It’s time for dinner.”  And they say, “What?” 
(Laughter.)     
  
Anyway, thank you.   
  
I’ve long said America can be defined by a single word.  I was in the
Tibetan Plateau with Xi Jinping.  I’ve spent a great deal of time with
him one on one — back when I was vice president and since then.  And he
looked at me, and he said — we just had simultaneous interpreters.  And
he said, “Can you define America for me?”  And I said, “I can.  One
word, and I mean this sincerely: possibilities.  Possibilities.”  
  
The fact that several of today’s honorees immigrated from other
countries is proof of the assertion that everything is possible.  
  
You know, there will be more techno- — technological change in the next
10 years, maybe in the next 5 years, than in the last 50 years.  There’s
a — in large part to the minds sitting in front of us.  And I want
America to lead — to lead that change.   
  
Because of the greatness of a country is measured not only by the size
of its economy or the strength of its military.  It’s — the strength of
the nation is also measured by its boldness of its science, the quality
of its research, and the progress it helps bring forth for not only the
country but whole the world.  
  
In this administration, America will be the place where great science
happens.    
  
You know, starting on day one, in the middle of the pandemic, we
vaccinated a nation: the greatest operational effort ever undertaken by
this country — operational.  And we did it with a strategy based on
science, not on politics.  
  
Now, scientists are exploring whether the mRNA technology that brought
us safe and effective COVID vaccines can be used against cancer.  
  
I brought together some of our nation’s top minds in my Council of
Advisors on Science and Technology.   And I elevated the Office of
Science and Technology Policy to a Cabinet-level position.  It’s helping
to lead major initiatives on everything from artificial intelligence to
ARPA-H to Advanced Research Projects Agency and Health — for Health that
are going to drive breakthroughs in how we <s>direct</s> \[detect\] and
treat cancer, diabetes, Alzheimer’s, and other diseases.     
  
And this year, we’re investing $200 billion in research and
development.    
  
In addition, I signed into law the CHIPS and Science Act and the
Inflation Reduction Act, two of the most significant investments America
has ever made to supercharge research, innovation, and job creation.   
  
Already, private companies have announced over $600 billion in
investments in industries from clean energy to advanced manufacturing
right here in America.   
  
Right now, NASA is leading a mission on Mars.  On our phones, we can see
images of the red planet that before we could only dream of seeing.  We
are further into space than ever before, and the answer to the most
fundamental question about how the universe began is not far away.   
  
All of this and so much more has happened because America is leading the
way and because the people in this room and the labs across the country
are leading.  It matters.  It matters.  
  
I want to close with this.  Last year, I went to Pre- — President
Kennedy’s library and museum in Boston to deliver a speech about what I
referred to as the “cancer moonshot” that my wife, Jill, and I reignited
after we got to the White House.   
  
You know, I’ve said before: If there’s one thing I wish as president I
could do, it would be ending cancer as we know it, for two reasons.   
  
One, America began to lose faith in its ability to do anything.  The one
thing that would prove to Americans that we can do anything is ending
cancer.  There’s more important things — more — as consequential — but
ending cancer.  
  
We’ve never set our mind to a project we haven’t accomplished if we do
it together.  
  
For those who have lost, like many of us in this room, and for the ones
we can save, I don’t just hope we can do it, I know we can do it.   
  
I was in that library with Kennedy’s daughter, Caroline, a dear friend. 
She presented me with her father’s framed speech answering the question
of why he was sending Americans to the moon — America to the moon.   
  
And here’s what he said in the letter.  He said — President Kennedy said
it was, quote, “because the challenge is one we are unwilling — we are
willing to accept and one we are unwilling to postpone and one which we
intend to win.”  
  
That’s the American attitude.  “Unwilling to postpone.”  We are
unwilling to postpone, and we’ve been postponing a lot of things too
long.   
  
That’s all of you here today.  You’ve been unwilling to postpone. 
That’s America at our best.   
  
We just have to remember who in God’s name we are.  We’re the United
States of America.  There is nothing — nothing beyond our capacity if we
set our mind to it and do it together.  
  
So, thank you very much.   
  
And with that, I’d like to invite the Military Aide to come up and read
the citations before I present the medals.  
  
Thank you all for being here.  Thank you.  (Applause.)  
  
MILITARY AIDE:  The recipient of the National Medal of Science, Huda
Akil.  
  
The National Medal of Science is being presented to Huda Akil of the
University of Michigan for pioneering contributions to our understanding
of the brain biology of emotions.  Her seminal discoveries of the
molecular, neural, genetic, and behavioral mechanisms of pain, substance
abuse, and depression have helped identify novel targets for treatments,
strengthening our nation’s public health, including the fight to end the
opioid epidemic.  
  
(The National Medal of Science is presented.)  (Applause.)  
  
Barry C. Barish.  
  
The National Medal of Science has been awarded to Barry C. Barish of
California Institute of Technology for exemplary service to science,
including groundbreaking research on sub-atomic particles.  His
leadership of the Laser Interferometer Gravitational-Wave Observatory
led to the first detection of gravitational waves from merging black
holes, confirming a key part of Einstein’s Theory of Relativity.  He has
broadened our understanding of the universe and our nation’s sense of
wonder and discovery.   
  
(The National Medal of Science is presented.)  (Applause.)  
  
Gebisa Ejeta.  
  
The National Medal of Science has been awarded to Gebisa Ejeta of Purdue
University for outstanding contributions to the science of plant
genetics.  By developing sorghum strains that withstand droughts and
parasites, he has improved food security for millions.  His advocacy for
science, policy, and institutions as key to economic development has
lifted the fortunes of farmers and strengthened the souls of nations.  
  
(The National Medal of Science is presented.)  (Applause.)  
  
Eve Marder.  
  
The National Medal of Science has been awarded to Eve Marder of Brandeis
University for her paradigm-shifting contributions to the understanding
of neuronal circuit plasticity, homeostatic regulation of neuronal
excitability and individual variability; her visionary application of
theoretical and experimental approaches to understanding neural
circuits; and her inspirational advocacy of basic science.   
  
(The National Medal of Science is presented.)  (Applause.)  
  
Gregory Petsko.  
  
The National Medal of Science has been awarded to Gregory A. Petsko of
Harvard Medical School and Brigham and Women’s Hospital for advancing
our understanding of neurodegenerative diseases like ALS, Alzheimer’s,
and Parkinson’s.  His role in founding structural enzymology, along with
his commitment to educating the public about brain health, have
empowered people around the world and raised the ambitions of our nation
regarding aging with dignity.  
  
(The National Medal of Science is presented.)  (Applause.)  
  
Accepting on behalf of Myriam Sarachik, Philip Sarachik and Karen
Sarachik.  
  
The National Medal of Science has been awarded to Myriam Sarachik of the
City College of New York for her seminal contributions to fundamental
experimental studies of molecular nanomagnets, quantum spin dynamics,
and spin coherence in condensed matter systems at low temperatures; for
her tireless advocacy of human rights throughout the world; and for
serving as an inspirational role model for women in physics.  
  
(The National Medal of Science is presented.)  (Applause.)  
  
Subra Suresh.  
  
The National Medal of Science has been awarded to Subra Suresh of the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Brown University for
pioneering research across engineering, physical sciences, and life
sciences.  A transformative educator, he has advanced the study of
material science and its application to other disciplines.  His
commitment to research and collaboration across borders has demonstrated
how science can forge understanding and cooperation among people and
nations.   
  
(The National Medal of Science presented.)  (Applause.)  
  
Shelley Taylor.   
  
The National Medal of Science has been awarded to Shelley Taylor of the
University of California Los Angeles for groundbreaking research into
mental health and the power of human connection.  Her work showed that
optimism, self-esteem, and strong relationships improve the health of
people with cancer, diabetes, and other diseases, helping establish the
fields of social cognition, health psychology, and social neuroscience,
and increasing our nation’s wellbeing.   
  
(The National Medal of Science presented.)  (Applause.)  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Wait a minute, let’s take a picture.  (Laughter.)  
  
(Addressing the White House photographer.)  You got it?  (Laughter.)  
  
MILITARY AIDE:  Sheldon Weinbaum.  
  
The National Medal of Science has been awarded to Sheldon Weinbaum of
the City College of New York for pathbreaking research in biomechanics. 
His models have driven innovation in physiology, bone biology, and blood
flow, increasing our understanding of cardiovascular disease and leading
to lifesaving treatments.  
  
His exceptional teaching and mentorship underscore his lifelong advocacy
for diversity and inclusion, tapping into the full talents of our
nation.   
  
(The National Medal of Science presented.)  (Applause.)  
  
The recipients of the National Medal of Technology and Innovation.  
  
Mary-Dell Chilton.  
  
The National Medal of Technology and Innovation has been awarded to
Mary-Dell Chilton of Syngenta Biotechnology for laying the foundation of
modern plant biotechnology.  Her breakthrough success developing the
first genetically modified plant has led to the engineering of crops
that can withstand insects, disease, extreme weather, and climate
change, transforming agriculture, protecting the planet, and improving
the health of people around the world.   
  
(The National Medal of Technology and Innovation is presented.) 
(Applause.)   
  
John Cioffi.  
  
The National Medal of Technology and Innovation has been awarded to John
Cioffi of Stanford University and ASSIA for advancements that helped
bring high-speed Internet to the world.  The digital subscriber line
that he helped invent ignited the growth of the digital age, vastly
increasing people’s access to information, reshaping the global economy,
and transforming how we work, communicate, and find community.   
  
(The National Medal of Technology and Innovation is presented.) 
(Applause.)  
  
Rory Cooper.    
  
The National Medal of Technology and Innovation has been awarded to Rory
A. Cooper of the University of Pittsburgh and the U.S. Department of
Veterans Affairs for empowering the lives of millions of Americans.  By
inventing and developing cutting-edge wheelchair technologies and
mobility devices, cultivating the next generation of rehabilitation
engineers, and championing wounded veterans and students with
disabilities, he moves us closer to being a nation that is accessible
for all.  
  
(The National Medal of Technology and Innovation is presented.) 
(Applause.)  
  
Ashok Gadgil.  
  
The National Medal of Technology and Innovation has been awarded to
Ashok Gadgil of the University of California Berkeley and Lawrence
Berkeley National Laboratory for providing life-sustaining resources to
communities around the world.  His innovative, inexpensive technologies
help meet profound needs, from drinking water to fuel-efficient
cookstoves.  His work is inspired by a belief in the dignity of all
people and in our power to solve the great challenges of our time.  
  
(The National Medal of Technology and Innovation is presented.) 
(Applause.)  
  
    Juan Gilbert.  
  
The National Medal of Technology and Innovation has been awarded to Juan
Gilbert of the University of Florida for protecting democracy.  His
pioneering designs in elections technology aim to make voting more
secure and accessible — (the President puts his arm around Dr. Gilbert)
— (laughter) — helping ensure that ours remains a government of, by, and
for the people.  An advocate for diversity in computer science, he makes
this discipline stronger and more representative of our nation.  
  
(The National Medal of Technology and Innovation is presented.) 
(Applause.)  
  
Charles Hull.  
  
The National Medal of Technology and Innovation has been awarded to
Charles W. Hull of 3D Systems for helping launch the groundbreaking 3D
printing industry.  Thanks to stereolithography, which he invented,
countless products can be prototyped faster and cheaper, reshaping
industries from aerospace to healthcare to education.  He continues to
drive innovation in advanced manufacturing critical to our nation’s
economy, security, and global leadership.  
  
  (The National Medal of Technology and Innovation is presented.) 
(Applause.)  
  
Jeong Kim.  
  
The National Medal of Technology and Innovation has been awarded to
Jeong H. Kim of Kiswe Mobile for advances in engineering and technology
that transformed how we communicate. His work on broadband optical
systems, data communications, and wireless technologies have made
communication faster and clearer, including improvements in battlefield
communications that strengthen our national security.  He exemplifies
the power of American entrepreneurship and innovation.  
  
(The National Medal of Technology and Innovation is presented.) 
(Applause.)  
  
Steven Rosenberg.  
  
The National Medal of Technology and Innovation has been presented to
Steven A. Rosenberg of the National Cancer Institute for transforming
the way we treat cancer and advancing our progress toward ending cancer
as we know it.  By leading the development of the first effective
immunotherapies, he has saved countless lives and inspired a generation
of scientists.  His work powerfully illustrates that we can do big
things as Americans.  
  
(The National Medal of Technology and Innovation is presented.) 
(Applause.)  
  
Neil Gilbert Siegel.   
  
The National Medal of Technology and Innovation has been awarded to Neil
Gilbert Siegel of the University of Southern California for technology
that bolstered our nation’s security, economy, and connectivity.  His
creation of the “digital battlefield” represented a new approach to
combat operations, integrating secure communications and precise,
real-time data to minimize U.S. casualties and protect allies and
civilians.  Today, technologies he invented are found in smartphones
everywhere.  
  
(The National Medal of Technology and Innovation is presented.) 
(Applause.)  
  
James Fujimoto, Eric Swanson, and David Huang.   
  
The National Medal of Technology and Innovation has been awarded to
James Fujimoto and Eric Swanson of the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology and David Huang of the Oregon Health and Science University
for enhancing human vision.  Their invention of optical coherence
tomography transformed ophthalmology by providing a detailed image of
the retina for the first time.  Their work is now the standard of care
for the detection and treatment of eye disease, giving millions a new
chance to see the world.  
  
(The National Medal of Technology and Innovation is presented.) 
(Applause.)  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  You all are so damn impressive.  (Laughter.)  No, I
really mean it.  Think of how you’re literally changing the world for
the better.  
  
Thank you, everybody.  And congratulations, again, to our outstanding
laureates and their families.  
  
And remember what America is all about — you do — possibilities. 
Possibilities.  That’s who we are.  Anything is possible if we put our
mind to it.  
  
And with you all, you’ve got incredible minds.  
  
Thank you for what you’ve done so far.  You’ve saved people’s lives. 
You’ve changed the way we look at the world, and you made it better.  I
don’t know that anybody could ask for anything more.  
  
Thank you, thank you, thank you.  And God bless you all.  (Applause.)  
  
(The President departs the podium.)  
  
Q    Mr. President, is humanitarian aid getting into Gaza fast enough?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Not fast enough.

12:59 P.M. EDT
