---
date: '2023-10-14'
modified_time: 2023-10-14 13:54:47-04:00
published_time: 2023-10-14 13:54:46-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/10/14/remarks-by-president-biden-on-creating-good-paying-union-jobs-investing-in-america-and-building-the-clean-energy-future/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on Creating Good-Paying Union Jobs, Investing\
  \ in America, and Building the Clean Energy\_Future"
---
 
Tioga Marine Terminal  
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

3:30 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT: Hello, everybody.   
  
It’s good to be almost home.  Hey, guys, I live in Delaware.  Okay? 
(Laughter.)  
  
And, by the way, I’m a big Pennsylvania guy, but you have an advantage
in Philly.  One, I married a Philly girl.  Two, you’re between Scranton
and Wilmington.  You know, Scranton — you guys have no sense of humor,
man.  (Laughter.)  
  
Look, Ryan, thanks for that introduction.  I really mean it.  
  
And before I get started, I want to acknowledge two brave police
officers — on a serious note — who were shot last night, one was killed,
at the Philadelphia Airport.  I talked to the chief and the mayor about
this.  They put their lives on the line to protect this community.  We
owe them a debt of gratitude, and we’re praying for them and for their
families today.  
  
I also want to say a word about the situation in Israel.  The more we’ve
learned about the attack, the more horrifying it becomes.  More than
1,000 — 1,000 innocent lives lost, including at least 27 Americans.   
  
These guys make — they make al Qaeda look pure.  They’re pure — they’re
pure evil.  
  
As I said from the beginning: The United States — make no mistake about
it — stands with Israel.  The United States stands with Israel. 
(Applause.)  
  
Secretary of State Blinken was in Israel yesterday and Secretary of
Defense Austin is there today.  We’re making sure Israel has what it
needs to defend itself and to respond to these attacks.   
  
It’s also a priority for me to urgently address the humanitarian crisis
in Gaza.  At my direction, our teams are working in the region,
including communicating directly with the governments of Israel, Egypt,
Jordan, and other Arab nations and the United Nations to surge support
and humanitarian consequences for Hamas’s attack to help Israel.   
  
You know, we have to — we can’t lose sight of the fact that the
overwhelming majority of Palestinians had nothing to do with Hamas and
Hamas’s appalling attacks, and they’re suffering as a result as well.   
  
This morning, I spoke with the family members of all those Americans who
are still unaccounted for on a Zoom call for about an hour and a — 10,
15 minutes.  They’re — they’re going through agony not knowing what the
status of their sons, daughters, husbands, wives, children are.  You
know, it’s gut wrenching.  I assured them of my personal commitment to
do everything possible — everything possible to return every missing
American to their families.  
  
We’re working around the clock to secure the release — (applause) — of
Americans held by Hamas in close cooperation with Israel and our
partners around the region.  And we’re not going to stop until we bring
them home.    
  
Folks, now for the reason to be here.   
  
Secretary Granholm, no one is more enthusiastic about building our clean
energy future than you are.  
  
And we also — I’ve — I’ve got so many friends here today.  The
Pennsylvania delegation.  Josh Shapiro, the governor.  Mayor Kenney is
an old friend.  One of my closest friends in the Senate and — and in
politics, Bobby Casey.  Representative Brendan Boyle, who’s always
there.  
  
And I have Governor John Carney from Delaware and Tom Carper, two of the
best people I’ve ever worked with.   
  
And New Jersey delegation — Donald Norcross.  I kid Donald all the time
that Delaware is small, but we own the Delaware River up to the
high-water mark in New Jersey.  (Laughter.)  By the way, there was a
lawsuit that hap- — actually happened.  Anyway, but —  
  
And he couldn’t be here, but Cory Booker is a good friend, and he’s —
was — who’s on the ground in Israel and — when the attacks occurred. 
For everything he’s doing to support the people of Israel, and I also
want to thank him for pushing so hard for the projects we’re about to
talk about.  
  
And Governor Phil Murphy couldn’t be here, either, but he’s also a
strong, strong supporter.  
  
And one thing before we get started: Let’s go, Phillies!  (Applause.) 
You watch that game last night?  Yo!  Between the Phillies and Eagles,
man, we’re — it’s — it’s a good year, man.  (Laughter.)  This is a good
year.  We’re going to win the Series and the NFL.  Look — and if I
didn’t say that, Bobby Brady would be up on the stage here with me. 
(Laughter.)  
  
Look, you’ve heard me say it before: When I think climate, I think jobs
— good-paying jobs, union jobs.  That’s a — by the way, I’m serious.  
  
Look, let me get one thing straight about unions.  The reason I’m so
pro-union: The middle class built America.  Wall Street did not build
the middle class.  Unions built the middle class.  (Applause.)  That’s
why.  I mean it.  I’m not — that’s not a joke.  I’m deadly earnest about
that.  
  
And it’s especially true when it comes to clean energy and
manufacturing.  When the public sector and the private sector come
together, proving we can do big things in America.  
  
One of the things that I worried about was that, you know, we talked
about — people — there used to be an argument that you can’t have
industrial policy dictated by the government.   
  
Well, guess what?  I found that when you — when the government invests
in the needs of the American people, invests in America and the American
people, guess what?  The private sector jumps on real quick.  
  
In fact, I’ve asked CEOs this question repeatedly: When the United
States invests considerable resources in new industry, does it encourage
or discourage businesses to get in?  And the answer is clear.  It
encourages them to get in.   
  
Federal investments attract private sector investments.  A lot of it. 
It creates jobs and industries, like clean energy, and demonstrates
we’re all in this together.  And that’s what this is all about
today.    
  
I’m here to announce one of the largest advanced manufacturing
investments in the history of this nation: $7 billion in federal
investments that’s going to attract $40 billion in private investment in
clean hydrogen to power our economy — (applause) — spread over 16
states, creating tens of thousands of good-paying jobs, many of them
union j- — most union jobs.  It’s a $50 billion investment in our
economic competiv- — competitiveness, in a stronger energy-secure
economy, and combatting the existent threat of climate change.   
  
It’s all part of my plan to make things in America.  You know, there was
a law early on that I even didn’t — I forgot about, which was that —
back in the ‘30s, during the Roosevelt time, it said it wasn’t only
good, but we should encourage — when the President has money to spend
that the Congress gave him, that president should do two things.   
  
One, is make sure he or she invests that money by making sure that it’s
— that money is being spent on American projects, by American workers,
with American products.  And guess what?  Presidents all along kept
saying, “Well, we have exceptions.  We — only 30 percent need to be
that.  Only 40 percent.”  
  
Well, guess what?  I’ve changed that.  
  
To invest in America and invest in Americans is what we do.  We grow the
economy from the middle out and the bottom up, not the top down.  
  
When I came to office, I was determined to move away from the
trickle-down economics.  You know, as they say: When the w- — when the
wealthy did well and big business, everybody is going to do well?  Well,
not a whole hell of a lot dropped down on my dad’s kitchen table when I
was growing up.  (Laughter.)  No, I’m serous.  
  
We have to — I decided we’re going to focus on building the middle
class.  When the middle class does well, everybody does well.  The poor
have a way up, the middle class do very well, and the wealthy still do
well.  They got to start paying their taxes.  That’s another issue.  
  
Folks, you know, the press started calling this — my plan —
“Bidenomics.”  Today’s announcement is a critical piece of that
plan.    
  
Let me explain.  I’ve made it a goal for our country to get to net-zero
emissions from pollutants no later than 2050.  By the way, it’s the only
existential threat to humanity.  If we don’t do this, if we don’t stay
below these numbers, our — the whole world is changing.  Our kids are
going to be and our grandkids are going to be — anyway, I don’t want to
even think about it.  
  
Clean hydrogen is going to help us meet this goal.   
  
When it comes to charging our cars or powering our homes, all we need is
clean electricity to power — to get from solar and wind.  That’s just
fine.  We’re doing that.  And we’re getting close to meeting that
goal.  
  
But when it comes to manufacturing things like steel, aluminum, and
other materials, factories need to process material at over 1,000
degrees Fahrenheit to get that done.  You can’t — you need to burn fuel
to get that done.  You can’t get it done with wind and solar power.  You
cannot generate that much energy.   
  
That’s where hydrogen comes in.  Hydrogen, you can power industries like
the production of steel and aluminum.  It can transfer — and it’s going
to end up changing our transportation system, like trucks, rail,
planes.  
  
Clean hydrogen produces energy resources like wind and solar.  That lets
us get to — you get to this place without putting more carbon in the
atmosphere.   
  
You know, I — when I put that forward, they said we couldn’t do anything
bipartisanly in the Congress.  Well, I introduced the bipartisan
infrastructure bill.  It got passed.  It got passed even though we only
had a couple votes extra in the Senate.  And it contained funding to
har- — to harness the benefits of hydrogen and to encourage states and
industries to join together to create things called “hydrogen hubs.”   
  
And, folks, those hubs are about people coming together across state
lines, across industries, across political parties to build a stronger,
more sustainable economy and to rebuild our communities.  
  
The hubs in the Mid-Atlantic Region is made up of 17 sites spanning
Southeastern Pennsylvania, Delaware, and New Jersey.  And the hubs are
existing infrastructure supporting the oil industry and oil pipelines
and refineries, and repurpose and regener- — -generate, store,
transport, and use clean hydrogen instead.  This hub alone is going to
produce 100,000 tons of hydrogen per year — 100,000 tons.   
  
Up to $750 million in public investment is attracting $2.25 billion in
private investment.    
  
And here are some of the examples of how it’s going to work.  The
Delaware City Refinery in my state — vacant — owned by Chesapeake
Utilities in Georgetown, Delaware, and a former jet fuel terminal in New
Jersey all use renewable energy, like solar power, to produce clean
hydrogen.   
  
Plumbers, pipefitters are going to replace and retrofit oil pipelines to
transport the hydrogen here, where fueling stations at the Port of
Philadelphia, in partnership with Philadelphia Gas Works, will provide
clean hydrogen to people to power trucks, heavy-duty equipment operated
by Longshoremen and Teamsters.  That’ll mean cleaner air, since
equipment that runs on hydrogen produces fewer emissions than diesel.  
  
Across town, on the site of the old Philadelphia Energy Solutions Oil
Refinery, a new Bellwether District, Hilco — well, it’s going to use
clean hydrogen for steam to power generat- — to power the life sciences
and logistics on campuses where companies will do research and
development for the next-generation technologies.  
  
The City of Philadelphia and Southern Pennsylvania Transportation
Authority are going to use clean hydrogen to power their heavy-duty
vehicle fleets, like steel — like street sweepers, garbage trucks, fuel
cells, and electronic buses.   
  
The DuPont Company in Delaware is going to use hydrogen to power their
research and development operations at one of the most extensive power —
experimental stations in the world in Wilmington, Delaware.  
  
Here, in the Mid-Atlantic hub, every single one of these projects will
use project labor agreements.  That’s another way of saying “union.” 
Union.  (Applause.)  
  
And by the way, here, it’s going to create 20,800 jobs — 20,800 jobs
here in this hub — plumbers, pipefitters, electricians, laborers, and so
much more.    
  
Look, we’re not just creating jobs here in the region.  In Western
Pennsylvania, in Ohio, West Virginia, a hydrogen hub will bring another
source of good-paying jobs to the coal communities so workers who have
powered our nation for generations can now work and produce clean
hydrogen, just like — just like we’ve seen them start their careers
reclaiming abandoned mines, manufacturing advanced batteries, and the
solar industry.  Because they deserve it.  They powered us for so long,
just like my hometown of Scranton.  
  
The same communities that were once thriving coal-mining and power plant
towns will now be at the center of our clean energy economy.  We’re
restoring hope and opportunity and dignity along the way.   
  
That was my commitment, and that’s what we’re delivering.  
  
We’re doing the same thing at a hub in Mid- — in the Midwest, a hub in
California, and another hub in the Dakotas and Minnesota.   
  
All across the country, from coast to coast, in the Heartland, we’re
building a clean energy future here in America, not somewhere else.  
  
Taken together, the emission reductions from these hydrogen hubs will be
the equivalent of taking 5.5 million gas-powered vehicles off the road —
5.5 million.  (Applause.)  
  
And across America, all these hubs are anchored in the promise to local
communities: a promise to build these right, to ensure local priorities
are at the forefront, risks are mitigated, and everyone benefits —
especially communities left behind, like those that have suffered
disproportionately from the legacy of pollution and environmental
injustice.  
  
For example, here in Pennsylvania, Cheney University — the oldest HBCU
in the country — is part of this hub and will be training workers for
these new clean energy jobs.    
  
Hubs are just one example of what we’re doing to rebuild America for all
Americans.  Through the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, which I helped
write and pass, we’re making the most substantial investment since
President Eisenhower in roads, bridges, ports, airports, clean water,
high-speed Internet.  These are good-paying jobs.  
  
We’ve already announced over 38,000 projects across 4,500 communities
all across this nation.   
  
Here in Pennsylvania, we’ve already announced — it’s going to get $10.2
billion, including for 300 — 300 specific projects across the state.   
  
There’s no better example — (applause) — there’s no better example of
how we’re — how we’re rebuilding America and doing big things right here
in Philly, where union labor — a great team effort to get I-95 back up
and running in just 12 days, with the help of the governor, after a
section of that highway collapsed.  Anybody think we’d be able to do
that in 12 days?  It’d never been done before.  
  
We’re upgrading the airports, from Pittsburgh to Lehigh Valley to right
here in Philly.   
  
And I want to tell you — and, Bobby — I say “Bobby” — my — my good
buddy, the guy from Scranton — you know? — Casey.  We’re investing $900
million — almost a billion bucks — to rebuild the Montgomery Locks and
Dam.   
  
We’re going to get moving on the — and I promised Bob.  We’ve got a lot
of money for Amtrak.  We’re going to build — where is he?  Bobby, we’re
going to build that line from Scranton to New York.  (Applause.)  It’s
coming, man.  I’m determined to build that line.  We used to have it. 
Now we’ve got the money, we’re going to get it done.     
  
Since I took office, we’ve created 13.9 million new jobs across America
— 13.9.  We’ve created <s>850,000</s> \[815,000\] manufacturing jobs —
twice as many as the previous administration created in all its time.   
The unemployment rate has stayed below 4 percent for 20 straight months
in a row, the longest stretch in 50 years.  (Applause.)  
  
We’ve achieved a 70-year low in unemployment rate for women.  We’ve seen
record-low employ- — unemployment for African American and Hispanic
workers and people with disabilities.  This is everybody.  Not just a
few people; this is everybody.  (Applause.)  
  
And, by the way, this data shows we have the highest — highest share of
working-age Americans in the workforce in 20 years.   
  
And inflation is coming down.  It’s down 60 percent since last summer. 
Core inflation is the lowest level in two years, and we now have the
lowest inflation rate of any G7 — any major industrial country in the
world.    
  
We’re creating good jobs in communities — we have more to do.  We’re
creating good jobs in communities across the country, including in
places that have been left behind for too long because factories shut
down, towns were hollowed out, and jobs were moved and people lost their
sense of pride.   
  
Hold a second.  Think about it.  How many small towns you know in
Pennsylvania and all across the Midwest where there was a factory that
for 30, 40 years people were able to work and have a good, decent salary
— could live a middle-class life?  And, all of a sudden, corporate
America decided, “I’m going to find cheaper labor overseas.  I’m going
to send the job overseas and import the product.”  
  
Not anymore.  When those jobs move overseas, we’re — they’re bringing
them back, and we’re bringing them back big time — big time. 
(Applause.)  
  
And, by the way, I mean it.  Think — think of the pride.  You know, you
lived in a neighborhood.  You lived in a small town.  Your whole life,
your father and your grandfather — you’re able to make it.  And, all of
a sudden, there’s nothing left.   
  
Kid comes to you and says, “I got a good education, Mom, but I can’t
live here anymore.  There’s no jobs.”  We’re going to restore their
pride as well.  
  
Under Bidenomics, you don’t have to leave home or your family to g- — to
get a good job.  
  
Under Bidenomics, we’re investing in industries of the future so that
the future is made in America — made in America.  (Applause.)    
  
And, folks, we’re just getting started.   
  
My “Investing in America” agenda has led to manufacturing boom,
attracting over half a trillion dollars — half a trillion dollars in
private investment in two and a half years, in manufacturing and the
industries of the future.   
  
Spending on factory construction has doubled in the last two years after
growing only 2 percent under my predecessor.  And now, instead of
exporting American jobs, we’re creating American jobs and exporting
American products.  (Applause.)   
  
I really mean it.  Think ab- — I know this sounds mor- — but I really
mean it.  And that’s good for everybody.    
  
Let me close with this.  I came to office determined to get this country
up — up again so it — we could face the existential threat of climate
and still grow, to fundamentally change our economy, and to transition
this country to a clean energy future.  Today’s announcement is all part
of a bigger vision to do just that.   
  
We’re going to invest — in the Inflation Reduction Act that we passed, I
was able to put in 6- — $369 billion — $369 billion.  And, by the way, I
reduced the budget by $1.7 <s>billion</s> \[trillion\].  Okay?  I
reduced the debt while doing this.  (Applause.)  To fight climate
change, it’s the largest investment of its kind anywhere in the world —
the single-largest investment ever.  
  
And we invented — by the way, we invented the semiconductor, the little
thing — that little chip about the size of the end of your finger — when
we went to the moon.  It affects nearly everything in our lives, whether
you have a cell phone, an automobile, a refrigerator, sophisticated
weapons systems.   
  
But guess what?  We were initially producing 40 percent of them all in
the world.  Guess what?  We got down to producing 10 percent.  Why?  We
took it overseas.  
  
So, I proposed legislation — which I thought would be a slam dunk to
pass, but we had a little bit of resistance from my MAGA friends — and
signed it.  And as a result, semiconductor companies all over the world
are investing hundreds of billions of dollars to bring chip production
back home.   
  
For example, you know, just outside of Ohia — outside of Columbus, Ohio,
there was a thousand acres.  We had Intel come along and say, “Look,
we’re going to invest there.  We’re going to invest over $20 billion. 
We’re going to build these new fabs” — these factories, they call them. 
They’re, like, twice the size of football fields.  
  
And guess what the average pay is?  About 100- to 110,000 bucks a year. 
And you don’t need a college degree to have the job.   
  
Look, with the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, we’re seeing cranes in the
air, shovels in the ground, and pride coming back to cities and towns
all across the country.   
  
Nearly a century ago, Franklin Roosevelt’s Rural Electrification Act
brought electricity to millions of Americans, generating significant
economic growth and prosperity.  Nearly 70 years ago, President
Eisenhower launched the Interstate Highway System.   
  
The investment we’re making today will be for our kids and grandkids
what those historic programs were for previous generations, only
bigger.   
  
Today — today’s announcement is transformational.  You know, and it
joins a long line of transformational investments we’ve made just since
I took office.   
  
And as a result, I truly believe that this country is about to take
off.  Because for the first time in a long time, we’re actually
investing in America.  We’re investing in Americans, not just America. 
We’re investing in our future.   
  
I can honestly say — and I mean this — and I know I don’t look it, but
I’ve been around for a while — (laughter) — I’ve never been more
optimistic about America’s future.   
  
We just have to remember who in the hell we are.  We’re the United
States of America.  (Applause.)  There is nothing, nothing, nothing
beyond our capacity if we work together.  Nothing.  
  
Because of you all, we’re going to get it done.  We’re the leading
country in the world.  We’re going to remain that way.  
  
And God bless you all.  And may God protect our troops.   
  
Thank you.  (Applause.)  
  
3:54 P.M. EDT
