---
date: '2023-10-27'
published_time: 2023-10-27 09:50:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/10/27/remarks-by-national-economic-council-director-lael-brainard-assessing-the-u-s-recovery-at-the-peterson-institute-for-international-economics/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by National Economic Council Director Lael Brainard Assessing the\
  \ U.S. Recovery at the Peterson Institute for International\_Economics"
---
 
***AS PREPARED FOR DELIVERY***

It is good to join you for this discussion on the U.S. recovery. Given
the unprecedented nature of the pandemic downturn, policymakers and
experts are actively assessing the state of our recovery and the
contribution of policy. That is especially true here at the Peterson
Institute, which has made important contributions to the debate.  
  
The pandemic years brought hardship for many Americans who endured a
truly unprecedented combination of negative shocks. But today our
recovery is strong, and the disinflation process is well underway—a
testament to the resilience of American workers, consumers, and small
businesses, and an indication that smart policy can make a positive
difference.  
  
Every week that goes by, we learn more about this recovery. Yesterday,
we learned the U.S. economy grew by 4.9 percent in the third quarter and
2.9 percent over the last year, defying expectations and outperforming
other recoveries.  
  
Today, we learned that core inflation continued to come down, with
annual core PCE inflation at 3.7% in September—its lowest level since
May 2021. For the last 3 months, core PCE inflation is running 2.5% at
an annualized rate.  
  
While there are risks associated with elevated geopolitical uncertainty
as well as with elevated financial market volatility that we will
continue to monitor, it appears that inflation is coming down while
growth remains robust—contrary to what many predicted.  
  
It was not long ago that the economy experienced dramatic supply shocks
in labor and inputs as a result of the pandemic and in commodities as a
result of Russia’s war against Ukraine. The resulting inelasticity of
supply represented a sharp, sudden shift from the preceding three
decades when supply was highly elastic. Following that massive shock to
supply, America’s recovery under President Biden’s economic plan stacks
up well—in comparison to previous forecasts, to recoveries of other
advanced economies, and to the last U.S. recovery. That is true across a
range of indicators including output, inflation, productivity, and
household balance sheets.  
  
First, let’s start by comparing the U.S. recovery with earlier
forecasts. This time last year, the consensus view was that unemployment
would need to go up to 4 ½ percent and the economy would need to
flatline to get inflation down to where it is today. In actuality, the
U.S. economy has grown 2.9 percent over the past year and unemployment
has remained below 4 percent consistently, while inflation has fallen in
line with the consensus forecast from a year ago.  
  
<img
src="https://mcusercontent.com/c97630621baff8c44fe607661/images/b86c23eb-2d5b-1c9f-e208-10be48d8fbf0.png"
decoding="async" loading="lazy" width="750" height="430" />  
  
Similarly, comparing U.S. economic performance to other advanced nations
tells a similar story: while many experts claimed that President Biden’s
economic plan would lead to worse tradeoffs between inflation and
growth, in fact, the United States has brought inflation down faster
than other advanced economies, while sustaining faster growth.  
  
U.S. GDP has grown by a cumulative 7.4 percent since the quarter before
the pandemic—the [strongest growth among G7
economies](https://home.treasury.gov/news/featured-stories/the-us-economy-in-global-context).  
  
<img
src="https://mcusercontent.com/c97630621baff8c44fe607661/images/c736d09c-6dc3-4eed-91bb-40a0d5a6c006.png"
decoding="async" loading="lazy" width="750" height="458" />  
  
At the same time, the United States currently has [the lowest inflation
of any G7
economy](https://home.treasury.gov/news/featured-stories/the-us-economy-in-global-context).
When comparing inflation on a harmonized basis, the U.S. has lower
headline—*and core*—inflation than our peers.  
  
<img
src="https://mcusercontent.com/c97630621baff8c44fe607661/images/9721ce73-36f5-cec8-dab4-66acc01d2261.png"
decoding="async" loading="lazy" width="750" height="536" />  
  
Second, the United States has also had the strongest post-pandemic
productivity growth in the G7, as measured by output per worker.  
  
<img
src="https://mcusercontent.com/c97630621baff8c44fe607661/images/00a15fab-3c8f-339a-bf9a-2c21f8677c6c.png"
decoding="async" loading="lazy" width="750" height="499" />  
  
While productivity data are highly volatile, and it is too early to draw
firm conclusions, one thing is clear: the historic trifecta of the
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, the CHIPS and Science Act, and the clean
energy portions of the Inflation Reduction Act are boosting the supply
side of our economy by catalyzing [private sector
investments](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/invest/?utm_source=invest.gov)
in infrastructure, clean energy, and semiconductor manufacturing. The
United States has seen high growth in business investment relative to
other G7 countries, particularly in
[areas](https://home.treasury.gov/news/featured-stories/unpacking-the-boom-in-us-construction-of-manufacturing-facilities)
at the heart of the President’s Investing in America agenda. For
example, real spending on manufacturing construction is up 60% since the
President signed the CHIPS and Science Act and Inflation Reduction
Act.  
  
The increased public and private investment in high-growth industries
may be contributing to some sectoral rebalancing in our labor market as
well. In contrast to the recovery from the Global Financial Crisis
(GFC), we’ve seen particularly large employment gains during this
recovery in sectors like [professional and business
services](https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series/USPBS) and [transportation
and warehousing](https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series/CES4300000001), and
[manufacturing](https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series/MANEMP) and
[construction](https://fred.stlouisfed.org/searchresults/?st=construction)
have also seen employment gains. The increase in [professional,
scientific, and technical
services](https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series/CES6054000001) employment
includes subsectors
like [engineering](https://beta.bls.gov/dataViewer/view/timeseries/CES6054134001) and [scientific
R&D](https://beta.bls.gov/dataViewer/view/timeseries/CES6054170001) services
that are at the heart of the President’s Investing in America agenda,
including clean energy and semiconductor manufacturing.  
  
These patterns are not evident in other advanced economies, suggesting
that the President’s economic plan may be contributing to supply side
gains in capital and labor that could boost potential growth in the
years to come.  
  
Third**,** it wasn’t very long ago that some experts claimed that the
President’s economic policies—including expansionary fiscal policy and
direct support to households—would keep Americans on the sidelines.
Instead of the Great Resignation, we’ve seen the Great Rebound—labor
force participation has rebounded by comparison with both pre-pandemic
[forecasts](https://www.cbo.gov/publication/56020) and prior recoveries,
despite long expected demographic headwinds and additional pandemic
headwinds. Prime-age labor force participation is 0.5 percentage points
above its pre-pandemic level. At this point during the previous U.S.
recovery, the prime age labor force participation rate was 1.7
percentage points below its pre-crisis level.  
  
<img
src="https://mcusercontent.com/c97630621baff8c44fe607661/images/5edf4ac9-db9d-e44d-f79a-863debc95d70.png"
decoding="async" loading="lazy" width="750" height="493" />  
  
The rebound in labor supply has been the strongest among prime age
workers and prime age women in particular. Following a decline in prime
age participation that stretched from the late 1990s until 2015, prime
age labor force participation has surged under President Biden and is
now at its highest level in over 20 years. The participation surge among
prime age women and [mothers with young
children](https://www.hamiltonproject.org/publication/post/prime-age-women-are-going-above-and-beyond-in-the-labor-market-recovery/)—to
its highest level on record—suggests that improved childcare
availability under policies signed by the President and remote work
flexibilities may have contributed to the gains in prime age labor
supply.  
  
The unemployment rate has fluctuated in a narrow band of 3.4% to 3.8%
over the last 20 months, and initially fell below 4% 4 years before
[outside](https://view.officeapps.live.com/op/view.aspx?src=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.cbo.gov%2Fsystem%2Ffiles%2F2021-02%2F51135-2021-02-economicprojections.xlsx&wdOrigin=BROWSELINK)
[forecasters](https://www.imf.org/en/Publications/CR/Issues/2020/08/07/United-States-2020-Article-IV-Consultation-Press-Release-Staff-Report-and-Statement-by-the-49650)
projected and around 8 years faster than following the GFC. The faster
labor market recovery avoided much of the scarring typically associated
with downturns—evident by the record low unemployment rates achieved for
[Black Americans](https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series/LNS14000006),
[Hispanic Americans](https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series/LNS14000009),
[workers with
disabilities](https://www.dol.gov/agencies/odep/research-evaluation/statistics),
and [workers without a high school
diploma](https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series/LNS14027659) achieved over
the last year and a half.

<img
src="https://mcusercontent.com/c97630621baff8c44fe607661/images/0fa8b3f3-0c45-6b48-dcc4-79531cdf6761.png"
decoding="async" loading="lazy" width="750" height="520" />  
<img
src="https://mcusercontent.com/c97630621baff8c44fe607661/images/ff3d58e2-44d2-5789-24d6-945d04885b8c.png"
decoding="async" loading="lazy" width="750" height="410" />  
  
In short, we have seen that sharp downturns need not lead to scarring
and persistent declines in participation, if they are met with
well-targeted policy responses. Strong labor demand, [real wage
gains](https://www.bls.gov/news.release/realer.nr0.htm#:~:text=Real%20average%20hourly%20earnings%20increased%200.5%20percent%2C%20seasonally%20adjusted%2C%20from%20September%202022%20to%20%0ASeptember%202023.)
and record high [job
satisfaction](https://www.conference-board.org/press/job-satisfaction-hits-all-time-high)
appear to be drawing more Americans into the labor force.  
  
Fourth, Americans households have much better financial health coming
out of this pandemic downturn as compared with the GFC—in part
reflecting the President’s economic policies. The latest [Survey of
Consumer Finances](https://www.federalreserve.gov/econres/scfindex.htm)
reported that real median household net worth is 37% higher than before
the pandemic—the largest percentage gain in wealth in the history of the
survey. Households in the lower half of the income distribution saw the
largest gains. Black median household net worth is 60% above
pre-pandemic levels, after accounting for inflation. That compares to
the 7% decline in real median Black household net worth in the decade
following the GFC. Hispanic median household net worth is 47% above
pre-pandemic levels after accounting for inflation—a larger increase in
3 years than in the 10 years from 2007 to 2019.  
  
<img
src="https://mcusercontent.com/c97630621baff8c44fe607661/images/e60ad055-35ba-438a-8593-b8298f11ff9e.png"
decoding="async" loading="lazy" width="750" height="532" />  
  
Unlike in the last recovery, American households were able to pay down
debt and lower their debt payments, especially for credit card and
student loan debt. Median debt payments as a share of income fell to the
lowest level in the history of the Survey. An increase in health
insurance rates to an all-time high may also have contributed to this
increase in financial security.  
  
Business ownership increased by 9%, with particularly large increases
among Black and Hispanic households. The Black business ownership rate
more than doubled—after falling between 2007 and 2019. Support to small
businesses helped keep small business open during the pandemic, and the
strong economic recovery is contributing to a record increase in
business formation. Some academic experts
[assess](https://www.brookings.edu/wp-content/uploads/2023/09/4_Decker-Haltiwanger_unembargoed.pdf)
that the [increase](https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series/BABATOTALSAUS) in
business formation is likely to be a durable feature of the economy, and
could contribute to increased dynamism and productivity over time.  
  
<img
src="https://mcusercontent.com/c97630621baff8c44fe607661/images/72181966-ba98-2a5b-9086-1c6b3b25e23c.png"
decoding="async" loading="lazy" width="750" height="471" />  
  
Finally, a current assessment of the U.S. recovery suggests caution in
overreliance on policy prescriptions taken from periods when aggregate
supply was highly elastic and policy was responding to aggregate demand
shocks. The pandemic inflationary episode was accompanied by a dramatic
supply shock coupled with significant distortions in the composition of
demand. For instance, it is interesting to note that inflation has moved
closely with measures of supply shocks, such as the New York Federal
Reserve’s [Global Supply Chain Pressure
Index](https://www.newyorkfed.org/research/policy/gscpi#/overview)
(GSCPI). Disinflation has also occurred as demand for goods has begun to
rebalance, given reopening in the service sector, and labor supply has
increased.  
  
<img
src="https://mcusercontent.com/c97630621baff8c44fe607661/images/35155df4-993f-f9bd-1780-c4bed65fc19f.png"
decoding="async" loading="lazy" width="750" height="490" />  
  
It is also notable that [nominal wage
growth](https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series/CES0500000003) continues to
moderate despite a strong labor market and robust payroll growth, which
is at odds with earlier Philips Curve based predictions that low
unemployment and above-target would lead to even steeper nominal wage
increases.  
  
Thus, overall, the President’s policies appear to have helped create the
conditions for a stronger recovery relative to forecasts, relative to
prior U.S. recoveries, and relative to contemporaneous recoveries
underway across the advanced world. No doubt, we will continue to learn
valuable lessons as experts here at the Peterson Institute and elsewhere
continue to rigorously assess the inflation, growth, employment, and
productivity data during this unprecedented economic cycle. But the data
we have in hand suggests we have moved closer toward the President’s
north star of building an economy from the middle out and bottom up that
works for *all* Americans. There is more work to do, and risks that we
will need to navigate, but our progress is encouraging.

\###
