---
date: '2023-10-18'
published_time: 2023-10-18 08:29:35-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/10/18/remarks-by-president-biden-and-prime-minister-netanyahu-of-israel-before-bilateral-meeting-tel-aviv-israel/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden and Prime Minister Netanyahu of Israel Before\
  \ Bilateral Meeting | Tel Aviv,\_Israel"
---
 
11:40 A.M. IDT

PRIME MINISTER NETANYAHU:  Mr. President, Joe, I want to thank you for
coming here today and for the unequivocal support you have given Israel
during these trying times, a support that reflects the overwhelming will
of the American people.

I’ve seen your support every day in the depth and breadth of cooperation
that we have had since the beginning of this war, a level of cooperation
that is truly unprecedented in the history of the great alliance between
our two nations. 

We see that support in your steadfast commitment to provide Israel with
the tools we need to defend ourselves.  We see that support in the clear
message you’ve sent our enemies not to test our resolve and in the two
American carrier battle groups that you sent to the region to back up
those words with action. 

But above all, Mr. President, the world sees that support in the moral
clarity that you have demonstrated from the moment Israel was attacked. 

You’ve rightly drawn a clear line between the forces of civilization and
the forces of barbarism.  You described what Hamas did as “sheer evil.” 
It is exactly that. 

Hamas murdered children in front of their parents and parents in front
of their children.  They burned people alive.  They raped and murdered
women.  They beheaded soldiers.  They — they searched for the secret
hiding places where parents hid their children. 

And just imagine, Mr. President, the — the fear and the panic of those
little children in their last moments as the monsters discovered — found
out their hiding places.

Hamas kidnapped women, children, elderly, Holocaust <s>survivals</s>
\[survivors\].  I know you share our outrage on this, and I know you
share our determination to bring these people back.

On October 7th, Hamas murdered 1,400 Israelis, maybe more.  This is in a
country of fewer than 10 million people.  This would be equivalent to
over 50,000 Americans murdered in a single day.  That’s 20 9/11s.  That
is why October 7th is another day that will live in infamy.

Mr. President, you rightly said that Hamas is worse than ISIS.  The
German Chancellor, who visited here yesterday, said that Hamas were the
new Nazis.  You’re both right.  And just as the civilized world united
to defeat the Nazis and united to defeat ISIS, the civilized world must
unite to defeat Hamas.

I can assure you, Mr. President, Israel is united to defeat Hamas.  And
we will defeat Hamas and remove this terrible threat from our lives. 

The forces of civilization will prevail, for our sake, for your sake,
for peace and security in our region and in the world. 

Mr. President, for the people of Israel, there’s only one thing better
than having a true friend like you standing with Israel, and that is
having you standing in Israel. 

Your visit here is the first visit of an American president in Israel at
a time of war.  It is deeply, deeply moving. 

It speaks to the depth of your personal commitment to Israel.  It speaks
to the depth of your personal commitment to the future of the Jewish
people and the one and only Jewish state. 

So, I know I speak for all the people of Israel when I say: Thank you,
Mr. President.  Thank you for standing with Israel today, tomorrow, and
always.

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Well, Mr. Prime Minister, thank you very much. 

Look, folks, I wanted to be here today for a simple reason.  I wanted
the people of Israel, the people of the world to know where the United
States stands. 

I’ve had my great Secretary of State here.  He’s been here for — a lot. 
But I wanted to personally come and make that clear. 

The terrorist group Hamas has slaughtered, as has been pointed out, over
1,300 people — and it is not hyperbole to suggest “slaughtered” —
“slaughtered” — and — including 31 Americans as part of that.

And they’ve taken scores of people hostage, including children.  You
said: Imagine what those children hiding from Hamas were thinking.  It’s
beyond my comprehension to be able to imagine what they were thinking. 
Beyond my comprehension.

They’re — committed evils that — and atrocities that make ISIS look
somewhat more rational. 

You know, Americans are grieving with you.  They really are.  And
Americans are worried.  Americans are worried because we know there’s —
this is not an easy field to navigate what you have to do. 

But the fact is that Israel, as they respond to these attacks, it seems
to me that — have to continue to ensure that you have what you need to
defend yourselves.  And we’re going to make sure that occurs, as you
know. 

And we have to also bear in mind that Hamas does not represent all the
Palestinian people and has brought them only suffering. 

You know, years ago, I asked the Secretary of State, when he and I were
working in the Senate, to write something for me.  And he said — he
wrote a line that I think is appropriate.  He said, “It’s not — we lead
not just…”  Well, I won’t go into it.  I’ll wait until later.  I’m
taking too much time. 

But the point is this — that I was deeply saddened and outraged by the
explosion at the hospital in Gaza yesterday.  And based on what I’ve
seen, it appears as though it was done by the other team, not — not
you.  But there’s a lot of people out there who are not sure. 

So, we got a lot of — we got to overcome a lot of things. 

And it also means encouraging lifesaving capacity to help the
Palestinians who are innocent, caught in the middle of this.

And — well, any rate, that’s — that’s who we are — not just me, but I
mean that’s who the United States is.  And it’s just not the example of
our power, it’s the power of our example that’s almost as important.

The world is looking.  We — Israel has a value set like the United
States does and other democracies, and — and they’re looking to see what
we’re going to do. 

So, Mr. Prime Minister, I’m very happy to be back in Israel with you. 
Thank you for having me.  And I’m looking forward to having a thorough
discussion about where everybody goes from here. 

But thank you. 

And I want to say to the people of Israel: Their courage, their
commitment, their bravery is — is stunning.  It’s really stunning.  I’m
proud to be here.

PRIME MINISTER NETANYAHU:  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.  
  
11:50 A.M. IDT
