---
date: '2023-10-10'
modified_time: 2023-10-10 19:05:24-04:00
published_time: 2023-10-10 19:05:23-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/10/10/remarks-by-president-biden-at-the-u-s-fire-administrators-summit-on-fire-prevention-and-control/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at the U.S. Fire Administrator\u2019s Summit on\
  \ Fire Prevention and\_Control"
---
 
South Court Auditorium  
Eisenhower Executive Office Building

3:48 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT:  Hello, hello, hello.  (Applause.)

Thank you, Dr. Lori, for that introduction.  You and your team deserve
tremendous credit for what you’ve accomplished over these last two
years. 

And a special hello to Eddie — Ed Kelly, my good friend.  Ed, I can’t
see you out there, but I’m sure you’re around. 

And a- — and Kevin — and Chief Kevin Quinn as well.

Look, I joined this summit virtually last year, and I wanted to be with
you in person this year.  But there was a critical issue, and it
required me to stay at the White House to respond to the terrorist
attacks in Israel.

We’ve gotten word that several firefighters have already been killed in
the assault on Israel, and Dr. Lori and her team are in touch with fire
officials on the ground.   

You know, you’ve heard me say before: God made man, then he made a few
firefighters.  (Laughs.)  And that’s pretty close to the —

The overwhelming human instinct is to run away from danger, and there’s
no more frightening danger than a fire.  And when that bell rings, you
run toward it.  You put your gear on, you jump on the truck, and you do
what you’ve got to do. 

Because being a firefighter isn’t just what you do, it’s who you are.  

But we also know your bravery comes at a real cost.  This year alone,
we’ve ha- — already had 61 line-of-duty firefighters’ deaths in the
United States.  And I’ve had far too many firefighter funerals that I’ve
attended in my life, from coast to coast.

This is a dangerous profession, and there’s no getting around it.  But
there are things we can do to make the job a little bit safer.  And
that’s what I want to talk about today.   

With the effects of climate change becoming more severe, fire
departments that never trained for wildfires — to fight wildfires are
facing wildfires head on now. 

And Jill and I just visited Maui in the wake of that historic fire there
— excuse me, I have a bit of a cold — and we met firefighters who
performed breathtaking acts of heroism while their own homes stood at
risk and some burned to the ground. 

This is National Fire Prevention Week, and the one thing we can do to
make our j- — your jobs safer is to prevent the fires in the first
place. 

So, we launched a national initiative offering federal grants to help
local governments adopt the most up-to-date building codes to make
structures more resilient to extreme weather events and — like wildfires
and hurricanes.  It makes a difference.

In January of last year, a fire tore through affordable housing units in
Philadelphia, killing 12 people — many of whom were children — in large
part because the smoke detectors didn’t work. 

In the wake of this tragedy, I signed a bill that requires affordable
housing units to have reliable, tamper-resistant smoke alarms. 

Just four days after that Philadelphia fire I just r- — referenced,
another fire took place, costing 17 lives in Bronx — in the Bronx
because the building made up of affordable housing units had no firesafe
— none — it was not firesafe.  Period. 

In response, I signed legislation giving the U.S. Fire Administrator
authority to conduct on-site fire safety investigations of major fires
to determine what happened and prevent the needless heartbreak in the
future. 

Too many lives have been lost from fires that could have been prevented
— the fires.  And people of color, people with disabilities, seniors,
low-income Americans are too often the victims.  You know, my
administration is going to combine — continue working to protect all
Americans from these tragedies.   

But also — we also know that what protects firefighters — the only thing
that really protects firefighters is more firefighters. 

During the pandemic, we invested $350 billion from the American Rescue
Plan that states and cities could use to keep firefighters on the job
through premium pay, new fire and rescue vehicles, extra staff during
peak times. 

I also signed a budget providing <s>$360 million</s> \[$260 million\] to
both the Assistance to Fire Prevent- — Firefighters Grant program and
SAFER grant program for hundreds of emergency response vehicles,
thousands of sets of turnaround — turnout gear, and critical cancer
research and cancer screening.  Look — and to put almost 1,200 more
firefighters in the field.  My budget this year includes another $370
million for each of these grants.  

It’s also past time to acknowledge the physical toll of these jobs. 
Toxic substances you’ve exposed to are almost certainly why cancer is
the leading cause — the leading killer of firefighters is cancer. 

You don’t have to look any further than 9/11.  We stepped up and we did
something about that.  We would step up now — we should step up now. 

My budget includes $1.7 billion for my Cancer Moonshot — to keep part —
key parts of my Unity Agenda in the State of the Union to cut cancer
deaths rates in half, to invest in research and development and early
detection and screening, and to end cancer, which we could do, as we
know it.  

We passed the PACT Act as part of my Unity Agenda to help veterans, like
my son, exposed to toxic materials and their families recover and
receive compensation. 

You know, around 20 percent of firefighters are military veterans. 

You know, thanks to this law, the Department of Veterans Affairs has
already provided free screening for over 4.5 million veterans from toxic
exposure from burn pits.  These burn pits, as you know, are the size of
football fields.  They’re 8 to 10 feet deep.  And they’re used to
incinerate — they’re used to incinerate wastes of war: tires, poisonous
chemicals, jet fuel, and so much more. 

You know, we also just created a Special Claims Unit at the Department
of Labor to process cancer claims and all other claims of federal
firefighters and to process them faster.

You know, and we’re tracking PFAS, the so-called “forever chemical” that
for years have been in fire suppression agents and in your gear.  I
signed legislation to fund research aimed at understanding the risk you
face from PFAS, and — and we banned the Department of Defense from
buying gear, by the way, that contains PFAS as soon as an alternative is
available.

In April, the CDC launched the National Firefighter Registry to collect
details — detailed data to better understand the link between workforce
exposure and cancer among firefighters. 

I’m also proud to sign the Federal Firefighters Fairness Act, giving
more than 10,000 firefighters and their families critical workers’
compensation and other benefits by making sure certain kinds of heart
problems, lung disease, and cancers are presumed to be caused by the
job.   

We also know the sacrifices you make are more than physical.  According
to one study, firefighters develop post-traumatic stress at a similar
rate of troops returning from combat.  And I don’t know why that should
surprise anybody. 

It’s estimated that more than 100 firefighters a year die from — by
suicide. 

That’s why I signed legislation extending the Public Safety Officers’
Benefit Program not only to firefighters who are permanently disabled
but to their families of firefighters who die after experiencing trauma
like <s>PSD</s> \[PTSD\] on duty. 

But we also know we need to do more on the front end to help
firefighters cope with the mental health challenges that come from the
job.  

You know, when it finally comes time for you to leave the job, you
should be able to retire with dignity.  That’s why I was proud to sign
legislation to make sure disability retirement benefits remain
tax-free.  Let me say it again: Those retirement benefits remain
tax-free. 

I’m also going to protect your right to collective bargaining.  

Let me close with this.  When the worst happens, when those alarms go
off, when everything and everyone you love is in danger, there’s no
better sight in the world than a firefighter ready to go to work.  So,
thank you for being who you are. 

I want to thank your families.  Every time that alarm goes off and you
respond, they wait for that phone call — pray to God they don’t get that
phone call.  You sacrifice every day — they sacrifice every day along
with you. 

And thank you for all the heroes you represent — on alert, on call — in
communities all across America at this very minute. 

So, God bless you all.  And may God protect our firefighters.

You’re the best.  You’ve been with me my whole career.  You’ve taught me
a lot.

I want to know how many of the people go out, risk their lives, and save
someone in their home and then, a week later, standing on a corner with
a boot, collecting money to help someone rebuild the home they just
lost.

You’re the very best.  You really are.

Thank you.  Thank you, thank you.

3:57 P.M. EDT
