---
date: '2024-12-11'
modified_time: 2024-12-11 16:04:13-05:00
published_time: 2024-12-11 16:04:12-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/legislation/2024/12/11/press-release-bills-signed-h-r-2950-h-r-5302-h-r-5536-h-r-5799-h-r-7218-h-r-7438-h-r-7764-h-r-8932/
tags: legislation
title: "Press Release: Bills Signed: H.R. 2950, H.R. 5302, H.R. 5536, H.R. 5799, H.R.\
  \ 7218, H.R. 7438, H.R. 7764, H.R.\_8932"
---
 
On Wednesday, December 11, 2024, the President signed into law:

H.R. 2950, the “Coastal Habitat Conservation Act of 2023,” which
codifies the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service’s Costal Program and
supports efforts to assess, protect, and enhance important costal
landscapes.

Thank you to Representatives Huffman and González-Colón, and Senators
Cardin and Graham for their leadership.

H.R. 5302, the “Michel O. Maceda Memorial Act,” which designates the Air
and Marine Operations Marine Unit of the U.S. Customs and Border
Protection located at 101 Km 18.5 in Cabo Rojo, Puerto Rico, as the
Michel O. Maceda Marine Unit.

Thank you to Representatives González-Colón, Mark Green, Salazar,
Radewagen and Soto, and Senators Rick Scott, Rubio, and Padilla for
their leadership.

H.R. 5536, the “Grant Transparency Act of 2023,” which establishes
transparency requirements for notices of funding availability for
Federal grant programs.

Thank you to Representatives Fry and Crockett, and Senators Cornyn,
Hassan, and Peters for their leadership.

H.R. 5799, the “James R. Dominguez Memorial Act of 2023,” which
designates the checkpoint of the United States Border Patrol located on
United States Highway 90 West in Uvalde County, Texas, as the James R.
Dominguez Border Patrol Checkpoint.

Thank you to Representatives Tony Gonzales, Cuellar, Vicente Gonzalez,
and Ciscomani, and Senators Cornyn, Sinema, Cruz, and Manchin for their
leadership.

H.R. 7218, the “BOLD Infrastructure for Alzheimer’s Reauthorization Act
of 2024,” which reauthorizes programs supporting research and resources
related to Alzheimer’s disease and related dementias through fiscal year
2029.

Thank you to Representatives Guthrie, Tonko, Chris Smith, and Waters,
and Senators Collins, Capito, and Kaine for their leadership.

H.R. 7438, the “FIFA World Cup 2026 Commemorative Coin Act,” which
directs the Department of the Treasury to mint and issue coins in
commemoration of the FIFA World Cup 2026 and will be held in the United
States for the first time in 32 years.

Thank you to Representatives LaHood, Larsen, Bacon, and Castor, and
Senators Young and Butler for their leadership.

H.R. 7764, the “Commission to Study the Potential Transfer of the
Weitzman National Museum of American Jewish History to the Smithsonian
Institution Act,” which establishes a commission to study the potential
transfer of the Weitzman National Museum of American Jewish History to
the Smithsonian Institution.

Thank you to Representatives Wasserman Schultz, Turner, Boyle, and Max
Miller, and Senators Casey, Crapo, Fetterman, Collins, and Rosen for
their leadership.

H.R. 8932, the “FAFSA Deadline Act,” which requires the release of the
Free Application for Federal Student Aid by October 1.

Thank you to Representative Houchin and Senator Cassidy for their
leadership.
