---
date: '2024-12-17'
modified_time: 2024-12-17 23:41:51-05:00
published_time: 2024-12-17 23:41:50-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/legislation/2024/12/17/press-release-bill-signed-s-50-s-310-s-1478-s-2781-s-3475-s-3613/
tags: legislation
title: "Press Release: Bill Signed: S. 50, S. 310, S. 1478, S. 2781, S. 3475, S.\_\
  3613"
---
 
On Tuesday, December 17, 2024, the President signed into law:

S. 50, the “Pensacola and Perdido Bays Estuary of National Significance
Act of 2024,” which amends the Federal Water Pollution Control Act to
give priority consideration to selecting Pensacola and Perdido Bays as
an estuary of national significance.

Thank you to Senators Rubio and Rick Scott for their leadership.

S. 310, the “Disaster Contract Improvement Act,” which requires the
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to establish an advisory
working group to encourage collaboration among entities engaged in
disaster recovery relating to debris removal.

Thank you to Senators Rick Scott, Peters, and Rosen, and Representatives
LaLota and Pappas for their leadership.

S. 1478, which designates as the “National Medal of Honor Highway”
United States Route 20 in the States of Oregon, Idaho, Montana, Wyoming,
Nebraska, Iowa, Illinois, Indiana, Ohio, Pennsylvania, New York, and
Massachusetts.

Thank you to Senator Ron Wyden, Representative Mike Kelly, and many
others for their leadership.

S. 2781, the ” Good Samaritan Remediation of Abandoned Hardrock Mines
Act of 2024,” which promotes remediation of abandoned hardrock mines.

Thank you to Senators Heinrich and Risch, and Representatives Maloy,
Peltola, and Susie Lee for their leadership.

S. 3475, the “Strengthening the Commercial Driver’s License Information
System Act,” which allows the Secretary of Transportation to authorize a
qualified entity to operate the Commercial Driver’s License Information
System.

Thank you to Senators Peters and Young for their leadership.

S. 3613, the “Improving Federal Building Security Act of

2024,” which requires Facility Security Committees to respond to
security recommendations issued by the Department of Homeland Security’s
Federal Protective Service (FPS) regarding facility security.

Thank you to Senators Peters and Young, and Representatives Ezell and
Troy Carter for their leadership.

\###
