---
date: '2025-08-05'
modified_time: 2025-08-05 01:28:58-04:00
published_time: 2025-08-05 01:28:57-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/2025/08/remarks-by-director-kratsios-at-the-apec-digital-and-ai-ministerial-meeting/
tags: articles
title: Remarks by Director Kratsios at the APEC Digital and AI Ministerial Meeting
---
 
**Remarks by Director Kratsios at the APEC Digital and AI Ministerial
Meeting**

**ACCELERATING AMERICAN AI EXPORTS**

AS PREPARED FOR DELIVERY

Incheon, Korea

August 5, 2025

**THE DIRECTOR:** Thank you for the kind introduction.

It is an honor and a privilege to speak to you today at this Global
Digital and AI Forum, representing the United States of America and the
administration of President Donald J. Trump.

As you no doubt know, on July 23rd, just two weeks ago, the White House
published the President’s AI Action Plan. The plan outlines America’s
national effort to remain the leader in pioneering AI and to be the
global partner of choice as this technology transforms industries and
information flows around the world.

The United States stands resolved to do all it can to accelerate AI
innovation, to build out AI infrastructure, and to conduct AI diplomacy.

President Trump began executing the AI Action plan immediately, signing
three executive orders following his remarks on the occasion. These
included an executive order preventing U.S. government procurement of
ideologically biased AI models, an order providing resources for the
rapid construction of data centers and power systems, and, finally, an
order promoting the export of full-stack American AI technology packages
to allies and partners worldwide.

That is why I am here today. Our hope is that AI will be a powerful tool
for bilateral diplomacy. We believe that by packaging the American AI
stack and making it available to you, we can strengthen our friendships,
empower each of our nations’ AI innovation, and secure a peaceful future
of shared prosperity.

\*\*\*

In his speech marking the release of the AI Action Plan, President Trump
compared today’s technical-industrial contest to be the world leader in
AI to the last century’s Space Race. The President called this AI race
“a test of our capacities unlike anything since the dawn of the Space
Age.”

Carrying forward that theme, my colleague David Sacks, White House AI
Czar, has described the president’s Action Plan remarks as the most
significant technology speech since President John F. Kennedy told the
nation that America had chosen to go to the Moon.

History will prove Mr. Sacks right, I think. We know that here in 2025,
we meet in a time much like the one President Kennedy described in 1962,
“in an hour of change and challenge, in a decade of hope and fear, in an
age of both knowledge and ignorance.”

Our challenge is to confront the changes promised by AI with strength on
behalf of our fellow citizens, and our hope is that these technologies
will be tools for the growth and exercise of knowledge, and not
instruments of ignorance and fear.

This AI race, the AI challenge, what Vice President J.D. Vance has
called our AI opportunity, is then indeed very like the Space Race. It
is, however, in one sense very unlike the contest that J.F.K. described,
for I do not come here today to discuss a Moonshot. The race to lead the
building of the future with wisdom and responsibility has no finish
line.

As a representative of my government, I am here to discuss not the
technology that may arise tomorrow but the technology ready for
application today. I come to you not to talk of the promise of potential
future technologies but of economic partnerships and the mutual
prosperity we can achieve now.

\*\*\*

The Trump administration believes that by extending human capacities and
complementing human work, AI already heralds a new industrial
revolution, information revolution, and even cultural renaissance.

For AI will empower discoveries in materials, chemicals, medicine, and
energy. It has the potential to transform schooling, media, and
communications, to retrieve forgotten things and point our eyes to the
unnoticed. And this technology may, in representing a confident and
hopeful step into the unknown, open doors we do not now even know to
look for.

The true technological and new industrial revolution we look forward to
today is not the frontier AI systems themselves, but what our peoples
will do with them. AI applications as we experience them today already
appear poised to be an enormous multiplier for improving our
productivity—whether in the factory, the office, or the lab. AI
technology is already enhancing the digital revolution in sectors such
as health care and agriculture, and further enabling new industries such
as robotics, drones, and self-driving vehicles.

Where it takes us next, the Trump administration believes, is for
inventors to show us, but we will labor to ensure that it betters the
lives of all of our citizens.

\*\*\*

APEC was founded to be the premier forum for the support of economic
growth in the Asia-Pacific region. The dawn of the AI age does not
change that. Quite the contrary, I believe there has never been a
greater opportunity to increase the dynamism and cooperation of the
Asia-Pacific community than that presented by this technology.

Thanks to President Trump, American AI is open for business. We are
ready to make deals under the dealmaker in chief. As we speak, the clock
is ticking as my office at the White House and the Secretary of State
assist the Secretary of Commerce in establishing the American AI Exports
Program, which will carry out the development and deployment of the U.S.
AI stack, packaged for each customer nation’s convenience.

The program is fielding proposals from the American AI industry for
packages that will include AI-optimized hardware such as chips and
servers, data center storage, cloud services, and networking; data
pipelines and labeling systems; AI models and programs; security and
cybersecurity systems; as well as AI applications for specific use cases
such as software engineering, education, healthcare, agriculture, and
transportation.

As needed, the United States is eager to employ all available U.S.
Federal financial tools to support priority AI export packages. These
include direct loans, loan guarantees, equity investments, co-financing,
political risk insurance, credit guarantees, technical assistance, and
feasibility studies.  

President Trump’s administration is unapologetically America First. We
want what is best for the American people, above all. Fortunately, as AI
transforms the future of global commerce it presents an opportunity for
mutual benefit.

We know you want what’s best for your country, too. With the AI export
packages we are developing, we want you to have the AI sovereignty, data
privacy, and technical customization that you so rightly demand on
behalf of your peoples. We are committed to finding a way to enable
America’s private companies to meet your national technological needs.

\*\*\*

With the AI Action Plan, the Trump Administration is getting the Federal
government out of the way of America’s AI innovators, to create space
for real competition and creativity, so that companies can create the
kinds of products every type of consumer will find truly useful. This
administration seeks to free the power of private industry to
commercialize breakthrough technologies, prevent monopoly, and build the
future. It believes that the broad overregulation of AI incentivizes
centralization and censorship.

America still holds a commanding lead in the race to provide the rest of
the world with AI infrastructure and applications. The gap between the
AI stack on offer from the United States and that of our closest
competitors remains significant and undeniable. For the foundation of
rival AI systems is American AI—American models and American AI
discoveries. Old and mighty countries are the home and origin of many
cultural and technological achievements, but the United States remains
the nation of innovators and birthplace of AI.

Competitor nations may be following American innovations quickly, but
they are still only following. American companies and American ideas
still lead the way. But this is not just to make a claim about technical
capacities or sophistication.

I also want to reiterate the independence and privacy that can be
expected from AI technologies and infrastructure that have been Made In
America. There are features of the American character—our commitment to
property rights, to freedom, yes, even to endless lawsuits—that stand
guard against danger to your sovereignty.

As made clear in the President’s Action Plan, the United States is
committed to supporting the development and deployment of open-source
and open-weight AI models. We understand that your governments and
national champion businesses seek to carefully steward your people’s
sensitive data, and so cannot always employ a closed proprietary model.
Indeed, the best open-source and open-weight models may become industry
standard setters. We are therefore taking concrete steps to enable and
empower their developers.

\*\*\*

This afternoon, I want to recognize that each of the APEC economies has
a choice before it: You can follow the European model of fear and
overregulation, and be inevitably left behind, succumbing to stasis as
the states around you move forward in settling a new frontier and
building a new future. Or you can take our offered handshake and make a
deal. The next trailblazing breakthroughs will be made with and on
American technology, and to fully harness them, you will want America’s
AI infrastructure already in place.

While some states believe it is their task to construct and direct an
industrial and scientific machine for their advancement, America has
been the center of global science and technology and the world leader in
techno-scientific development because our experiment in self-government
has again and again given our innovators the freedom to launch mankind
into new technological frontiers.

We believe the way of progress is found in human judgment and friendly
cooperation, in political freedom and civic responsibility, in
sovereignty and independence, not global governance and technocratic
control.

This is why the president has called us to usher in a new Golden Age, to
recapture the spirit of discovery and adventure that carved a new nation
out of the wilderness, tamed the wilds of the West, and put human feet
upon the moon. Americans have always been explorers, inventors, and
pioneers, and have mastered each new frontier of science and technology
and so made humanity safer, healthier, and more prosperous than ever
before.

With the export of the American AI stack around the world, we continue
that legacy.

Thank you.
