---
date: '2025-08-18'
modified_time: 2025-08-18 17:39:19-04:00
published_time: 2025-08-18 17:39:08-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/2025/08/american-leadership-is-back-under-president-trump/
tags: articles
title: American Leadership Is Back Under President Trump
---
 
As President Donald J. Trump convenes with Ukrainian President Volodymyr
Zelenskyy and key European allies at the White House, the world is
witnessing the resurgence of American leadership. Through his
unrelenting commitment to peace, President Trump is determined to
shatter the yearslong impasse and pave a way for an end to the
bloodshed.

**World leaders credit President Trump’s decisive actions for reigniting
the dialogue:**

[**Ukrainian President Volodymyr
Zelenskyy**](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1957524316360441907)**:**
“I think that we had a very good conversation with President Trump… it
was really good. We spoke about very sensitive points.”

[**NATO Secretary General Mark
Rutte**](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1957524255815721050)**:**
“I really want to thank you, President of the United States, dear
Donald, for the fact that you, as I said before, broke the deadlock
basically with President Putin by starting the dialogue … From there,
here we are today.”

[**Finnish President Alexander
Stubb**](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1957522715864150362)**:**
“I think in the past two weeks, we’ve probably had more progress in
ending this war than we have in the past three-and-a-half years.”

[**Italian Prime Minister Giorgia
Meloni**](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1957525940327854561)**:**
“It is an important day — a new phase — after three years that we didn’t
see any kind of sign from the Russian side that they were willing for
dialogue, so something is changing — something has changed — thanks to
you.”

[**United Kingdom Prime Minister Keir
Starmer**](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1957527883162714514)**:**
“I think today will be seen as a very important day in recent years in
relation to a conflict which has gone on for three-and-a-bit years, and
so far, nobody has been able to bring it to this point — so I thank you
for that.”

[**German Chancellor Friedrich
Merz**](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1957525118370083182)**:**
“This is extremely helpful that we are meeting and hearing that the two
of you are having such a good meeting today … The path is open. You
opened it last Friday — but now the way is open for complicated
negotiations.”

[**French President Emmanuel
Macron**](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1957527667101810780)**:**
“Thank you, Mr. President, for organizing this meeting and for your
commitment… everybody around this table is in favor of peace… this is
why the idea of a trilateral meeting is very important because this is
the only way to fix it.”

[**European Commission President Ursula von der
Leyen**](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1957525545618723133)**:**
“We had a fantastic NATO Summit… We had the largest trade deal ever —
agreed. And now, we are here to work together with you on a… lasting
peace for Ukraine. Stop the killing. This is really our common
interest.”
