---
date: '2025-08-21'
published_time: 2025-08-21 13:43:29-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/2025/08/across-the-country-americans-will-pay-less-in-taxes-thanks-to-president-trumps-big-beautiful-bill/
tags: articles
title: "Across the Country, Americans Will Pay Less in Taxes Thanks to President Trump\u2019\
  s Big Beautiful Bill"
---
 
Americans across the country will feel the benefits of President Trump’s
One Big Beautiful Bill this tax season, with the average taxpayer saving
more and paying less.

**Here’s what outlets across the country are saying:**

**Must Read Alaska (Homer, AK):** [**Alaska Taxpayers to Save an Average
of $3,485 Under New Federal Tax
Law**](https://mustreadalaska.com/alaska-taxpayers-to-save-an-average-of-3485-under-new-federal-tax-law/)

*“Alaska taxpayers will see significant relief under the One Big
Beautiful Bill Act, with average savings of $3,485 thanks in part to the
Alaska delegation’s support for working-family tax cuts, according to a
new analysis from the Tax Foundation.”*

***Reno Gazette-Journal* (Reno, NV):** [**Nevada Ranks in Top States for
Tax Cuts from Trump’s Big Budget
Bill**](https://www.rgj.com/story/news/politics/2025/08/20/nevada-tax-cuts-trump-budget-bill/85683509007/)

*“Nevadans will see among the biggest tax reductions of any state
because of changes in this year’s federal budget package. The average
tax cut for each Nevada resident who files a return in 2026 will be
$4,220 — with Washoe County filers seeing a $6,313 drop. That’s
according to the nonpartisan, nonprofit Tax Foundation, a national think
tank that advocates for lower taxes and limited government.”*

***The Tennessean* (Nashville, TN):** [**How Much Can Middle Tennessee
Taxpayers Expect to Save Under Trump’s Tax Cuts? These Counties Will
Save the
Most.**](https://www.columbiadailyherald.com/story/money/2025/08/20/nashville-middle-tennessee-average-tax-cuts-trump/85724561007/)

*“Middle Tennessee residents are among the Tennesseans set to experience
the most financial relief by tax cuts introduced under President Donald
Trump’s ‘Big Beautiful Bill.’*

*Signed into law on July 4, the legislation marks the most significant
overhaul of federal tax policy since the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act,
which lowered average tax burdens across income levels and temporarily
streamlined the filing process through structural reforms, according
to an analysis by the Tax Foundation. The new bill not only makes the
2017 tax cuts permanent but also introduces additional breaks, including
deductions on tips and overtime pay, tax relief for seniors and an
expanded child-care tax credit.”*

**WKMG-TV (Orlando, FL):** [**Tax Cuts are Coming to Florida Next Year.
Here’s How Much to
Expect**](https://www.clickorlando.com/news/florida/2025/08/20/tax-cuts-are-coming-to-florida-next-year-heres-how-much-to-expect/)

*“With the One Big Beautiful Bill Act (OBBBA) being signed into law last
month, Florida is slated to see plenty of individual and business tax
cuts. That’s according to The Tax Foundation, which put together a study
this month detailing what Florida residents can expect during the
upcoming 2026 tax season.*

*The study predicts that the OBBBA will bring down federal taxes on
average for individual taxpayers in every state, largely thanks to
features like new deductions for tipped/overtime income, as well as an
expanded child tax credit and standard deduction.”*

**Axios Phoenix (Phoenix, AZ):** [**Arizonans Will See Tax Cuts From
“Big, Beautiful
Bill”**](https://www.axios.com/local/phoenix/2025/08/20/arizona-one-big-beautiful-bill-tax-cuts)

*“Arizonans’ average tax cut will be $3,521 in 2026, a bit under the
national average of $3,752, per an analysis from the Tax Foundation, a
nonpartisan research group that mostly supports lower taxes. But if
you’re in Maricopa County, the average tax savings will be $4,049, the
biggest cuts of any county in the state*.”

**Spectrum News 1 (Toledo, OH):** [**Ohio Lawmakers Seek to Frame Big
Beautiful Bill During Congress’ August
Recess**](https://spectrumnews1.com/oh/toledo/news/2025/08/20/obbb-ohio-campaign)

*“The average Ohio taxpayer will save $3,175 in 2026 because of tax cuts
in the so-called One Big, Beautiful Bill Congress passed in July,
according to an analysis by the nonpartisan Tax Foundation… The analysis
is based on the tax rate that would have taken effect if the 2017 tax
cuts expired at the end of this year, so the average Ohio filer will see
$1,036 in savings on their 2026 taxes compared to 2025.”*

**Axios Richmond (Richmond, VA):** [**Richmonders to get $3.5K Tax Cut
in
2026**](https://www.axios.com/local/richmond/2025/08/20/richmond-2026-federal-tax-cuts-childcare-overtime-savings)

*“The average Richmonder will see a federal tax cut of nearly $3,500 in
2026 thanks to the ’big, beautiful bill,’ per an analysis from the Tax
Foundation, a nonpartisan research group that mostly supports lower
taxes.,, The spending bill Congress passed last month made President
Trump’s first term tax cuts permanent — and added on a bunch more. The
new tax breaks include deductions for tips and overtime income, a cut
for seniors and an expanded child-care credit.”*

**The Ohio Press Network (OH):** [**Ohio Officials Discuss OBBBA Tax
Cuts, Benefits at White House
Event**](https://www.theohiopressnetwork.com/news/ohio/exclusive-watch-ohio-officials-discuss-obbba-tax-cuts-benefits-at-white-house-event/article_d5fdf5f0-43dd-4e02-9928-e0cc47f25250.html)

*“Nationwide, the act makes permanent the 2017 TCJA provisions,
preventing tax hikes for **62% of filers** in 2026 according to a **Tax
Foundation analysis**. It also introduces new deductions for tipped and
overtime income, expands the child tax credit, and enhances the standard
deduction.*

*In the Buckeye State, the Council of Economic Advisors (CEA) projects
OBBBA will significantly boost Ohio’s economy, raising wages by $3,400
to $6,100 over the next four years and increasing take-home pay for a
typical family with two children by $7,000 to $9,800, according to CEA
analysis.*

*CEA predicts OBBBA will protect 232,000 Ohio jobs with 5% of the
workforce benefiting from no taxes on tips, 2.1 million seniors gaining
from no taxes on Social Security, and 24% of employees (plus 65% in
eligible occupations) advantaged by no taxes on overtime. The bill
supports manufacturing (14% of Ohio’s employment) and extends the **199A
deduction** for 141,000 small businesses statewide. Enhanced Opportunity
Zones, now permanent, have already created 43,000 jobs and 13,000
housing units in Ohio’s 320 zones.”*

**Axios Miami (Miami, FL):** [**Miami-Dade, Broward Residents See $5K
Tax Cut in
2026**](https://www.axios.com/local/miami/2025/08/20/miami-2026-federal-tax-cuts-trump-savings)

***“****In Miami-Dade, the average tax break is expected to be $5,872
next year. In Broward County, it’s $4,441. In Florida, the average tax
cut will be about $5,000, per the Tax Foundation analysis. Collier
County residents will see some of the largest average tax cuts in the
state ($14,315).”*

**Axios Des Moines (Des Moines, IA):** [**Iowa Taxpayers Expected to See
Average of $3,000 in
Savings**](https://www.axios.com/local/des-moines/2025/08/20/iowa-taxpayers-big-beautiful-bill-economy-cuts)

**“**Iowa’s average cuts in 2026 range from $2,311 in Appanoose County
to $4,330 in Dallas County. Iowa’s all-Republican congressional
delegation supported the bill. Sen. Chuck Grassleycalled it a
‘resounding victory,’ outlining a dozen ways he believes it benefits
Iowans. Sen. Joni Ernstsaid it will keep more money in people’s
pockets.”

**Axios Kansas City (Kansas City, KS/MO):** [**How the “Big, Beautiful
Bill” Affects Your 2026
Taxes**](https://www.axios.com/local/kansas-city/2025/08/21/kc-2026-tax-cuts-big-beautiful-bill-county-breakdown)

*“On the Kansas side,Johnson County filers are projected to receive an
average cut of $5,344 in 2026. Wyandotte County filers are estimated to
get an average cut $2,115. In Missouri, Platte County leads with an
estimated average cut of $4,104. Cass County is projected at $3,240,
Clay County at $3,138 and Jackson County at $3,039.”*

***The Greenville News* (Greenville, SC):** [**Chamber of Commerce
Lobbyist Touts One Big Beautiful Bill as “game-changer” for
Businesses**](https://www.greenvilleonline.com/story/news/local/2025/08/18/chamber-of-commerce-lobbyist-sees-gop-budget-bill-as-win-for-taxpayers/85715391007/)

*“The law makes the 20 percent qualified business income deduction
permanent – ‘a game-changer for businesses,’ Jackson said. She also
pointed to the 100 percent deduction for research and experimental
expenses. Jackson was pleased that businesses will receive an expanded
employer-provided childcare tax credit because ‘we know that childcare
is one of the biggest hurdles to getting people into the workforce and
keeping people in the workforce.’”*

***The Dallas Express* (Dallas, TX):** [**Tax Foundation: Trump’s ‘One
Big Beautiful Bill’ Cuts Taxes, Creates
Jobs**](https://dallasexpress.com/national/trumps-one-big-beautiful-bill-massive-tax-cuts-and-millions-of-new-jobs-white-house-says/)

*“American taxpayers will receive an average tax cut of $3,752 under
President Donald Trump’s One Big Beautiful Bill, according to a new
analysis released Friday by the nonpartisan Tax Foundation. The
organization also projects that the legislation will create nearly one
million new jobs nationwide. The sweeping tax overhaul represents the
centerpiece of Trump’s economic agenda. White House officials tout it as
historic relief for middle-class families.”*

***The Columbus Dispatch* (Columbus, OH):** [**The Buckeye State has
Reason to Thank Donald Trump. He Just Gave Workers a
Raise**](https://www.dispatch.com/story/opinion/columns/guest/2025/08/15/tips-donald-trump-waitresses-bartenders-taxes/85640998007/)

*“Among the many commonsense and overdue measures to jumpstart the U.S.
economy, President Donald Trump’s Big Beautiful Bill specifically
targets middle-class blue-collar and service-sector workers for relief
from high taxes, so that every American — and especially those here in
the Buckeye State — can benefit from a growing economy.*

*The bill’s provision on cutting taxes on overtime, up to $12,500 a
year, means more money in the pockets of our hardest-working Ohioans.
Overtime taxes are essentially a tax on production, since labor is such
a big cost in making things right here at home.”*

**The Midwesterner (Michigan):** [**Tax Foundation Study Shows Avg
$3,151 Tax Cut for Michiganders After One Big Beautiful
Bill**](https://www.themidwesterner.news/2025/08/tax-foundation-study-shows-avg-3151-tax-cut-for-michiganders-after-one-big-beautiful-bill/)

*“The Tax Foundation’s report estimates that, in 2026, the average
Michigan taxpayer would see a $3,151 tax cut. Every county would
benefit, with some seeing larger reductions than others: Ingham County
residents would save $2,657 on average, Kalamazoo County $3,276, Grand
Traverse County $3,855, Genesee County $2,430, Macomb County $2,693,
Oakland County $5,006, and Saginaw County $2,462.*

*The ‘One Big Beautiful Bill’ is a comprehensive federal tax reform
package passed by Trump’s administration. It includes cuts to individual
and corporate tax rates, expands child tax credits, and reduces certain
deductions. Supporters say it is designed to simplify the tax code,
stimulate economic growth, and put more money in the pockets of
middle-class families.”*

**The Mountaineer (Waynesville, NC):** [**Report: Average Tax Cut Coming
is
$3,264**](https://www.themountaineer.com/news/state/report-average-tax-cut-coming-is-3-264/article_1e65d390-47ce-59bd-8580-2fb8e99e16a2.html)

*“More than $3,200 in tax cut savings is projected on average for North
Carolinians, a report from The Tax Foundation says. Long range, more
than 26,000 jobs are forecast to be added in the state as well, says the
international nonprofit research organization publishing studies on
American tax policies. The report was done in response to the July 4
signing of House Resolution 1, known also as the One Big Beautiful Bill
Act.”*

**Axios Atlanta (Atlanta, GA):** [**Fulton County Residents to get
$5,666 Tax Cuts in
2026**](https://www.axios.com/local/atlanta/2025/08/21/fulton-county-georgia-tax-cut-2026-federal-bill-trump)

*“At $5,666, Fulton residents will see the second-highest average tax
cut next year in Georgia, per the Tax Foundation. Residents of Cherokee,
Cobb, DeKalb, Fayette and Forsyth counties will see at least $3,500.”*
