---
date: '2025-08-19'
published_time: 2025-08-19 14:54:09-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/2025/08/president-trumps-peace-summit-hailed-as-a-game-changer/
tags: articles
title: "President Trump\u2019s Peace Summit Hailed as a Game-Changer"
---
 
President Donald J. Trump’s groundbreaking [peace
summit](https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/2025/08/american-leadership-is-back-under-president-trump/)
at the White House yesterday is being celebrated by world leaders,
national security experts, lawmakers, and others as a monumental stride
toward resolving the longstanding war in Ukraine. The summit, which
brought together Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy and key
European allies, marked another transformative moment in the pursuit of
peace.

**Here’s what they’re saying:**

[NATO Secretary General Mark
Rutte](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1957585712955404503):
“Without President Trump, this deadlock with Putin would not have been
broken. He is the only one who could do this.”

[Gen. Jack Keane
(ret.)](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1957774965593247875): “You
can’t overstate the significance of what we all witnessed and to
describe it, as you have and others, as ‘historic’ certainly is factual…
What we saw there is the undisputed global leader sitting down with the
prominent leaders in Europe and President Zelensky to discuss a pathway
forward for peace — and it is stunning.”

[Former Special Envoy Nathan
Sales](https://x.com/IngrahamAngle/status/1957587769557152041): “Peace
is closer today than it was yesterday. President Trump didn’t
capitulate; he stood firm. Even Zelenskyy says this was the best meeting
he’s had with Trump. That’s the path to a durable peace.”

[Former U.S. Ambassador to Russia Michael
McFaul](https://x.com/JasonJournoDC/status/1957527990960525629): “That
was a very positive meeting and whoever had the idea to bring all these
European leaders together in addition to President Zelenskyy — that was
a brilliant, brilliant idea. And having it come so quickly after Alaska
was very important… This is very positive progress.”

[Former U.S. Ambassador to Poland Daniel
Fried](https://www.justsecurity.org/119273/trump-zelenskyy-europe-meeting/):
“A deal to end Russia’s war against Ukraine could emerge.”

[Former National Security Advisor Robert O’Brien,
Jr.](https://x.com/DavidAsmanfox/status/1957542835172893156): “Let’s be
clear — it’s Donald Trump who’s cleaning up the Biden mess.”

[Atlantic Council President and CEO Frederick
Kempe](https://x.com/AtlanticCouncil/status/1957604673667416397): “It’s
going to be very difficult … but what’s different in the last two weeks
is we now have an opening we didn’t have before to at least start
working in that very, very difficult direction.”

[Lexington Institute VP for Defense Rebecca
Grant](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1957826955199336745): “This
is the 100% restoration of American leadership, with NATO and our
European allies now united with us in a way that we’ve never seen
before… Trump has really done a great job… Masterful leadership.”

[Batya
Ungar-Sargon](https://x.com/bungarsargon/status/1957520434531860872):
“It’s truly amazing to see the unity between Trump, Zelensky, and the
European leaders. There is finally a consensus developing around how
this horrific war ends. It’s clear now Putin agreeing to security
guarantees in Alaska was a huge breakthrough, and territorial swaps are
now on the table from the Ukrainian side. You won’t hear this in the
mainstream legacy media who would rather lie than give Trump any credit,
but make no mistake about it: This is Trump’s win. ‘The path is open.
You opened it,’ as Germany’s Chancellor Merz put it.”

[Lex Fridman](https://x.com/lexfridman/status/1957567158138925387):
“What a great day and meeting between Trump & Zelenskyy. I pray for
peace soon”

[Larry
Kudlow](https://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2025/08/19/trump_is_moving_at_warp_speed_to_get_a_peace_deal_153194.html):
“If anybody can get a peace deal and end the Russian war on Ukraine, as
I’ve said before, it’s President Trump. And, right now, he’s moving at
warp speed. Bypassing a cease-fire and moving straight to a peace deal,
it appears that he has already got a NATO-like security guarantee
agreement from President Vladimir Putin.”

[Harold Ford, Jr.](https://x.com/EricLDaugh/status/1957556612496769459):
“I give President Trump tremendous credit for where we are.”

[Newsmax’s Ed Henry](https://x.com/NEWSMAX/status/1957598433189196168):
“This President today actually did the work to move us closer to a peace
deal… This is Diplomacy 101.”

[ACT for America Founder and Chairman Brigitte
Gabriel](https://x.com/ACTBrigitte/status/1957519266275868778):
“President Trump’s pursuit of peace for two countries he does not live
in is inspiring. This war was started by Putin and allowed by Joe Biden,
but President Trump is the one who is taking all the arrows to end it.
The most selfless leader our nation has ever had.”

[Secretary of State Marco
Rubio](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1957597591237194214): “The
whole thing was a big moment — unprecedented… After three years of
deadlock and no talks and no change in circumstances, this is the first
time where there seems to be some movement.”

[Secretary of the Treasury Scott
Bessent](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1957773707532697637): “It
was an incredible group to have in the White House, all led by President
Trump. The culmination of that was a call with President Putin — and my
strong belief is that there will be a bilateral meeting between
President Putin and President Zelenskyy. That’s the only way to end this
conflict is to get the two sides talking.”

[Secretary of Defense Pete
Hegseth](https://x.com/PeteHegseth/status/1957572464734564828): “What an
honor it was to watch Our President forge the peace process today. No
other leader on Planet Earth could do what he did in Alaska, today at
the White House, or in the future. President Trump is a tough &
relentless peacemaker — the world owes him a debt of gratitude.”

[U.S. Ambassador to NATO Matthew
Whitaker](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1957773315684082077): “We
have a World War I-style land war right now on the European continent.
Nobody thought this would ever happen, but here it is — and President
Trump, thankfully, was elected last November and has brought us to a
position of getting a peace deal where we are possibly a couple meetings
away from having the killing end.”

[Speaker Mike
Johnson](https://x.com/SpeakerJohnson/status/1957529512935321849):
“Don’t believe the Fake News – President Trump is the PEACE PRESIDENT.
His leadership is making our enemies FEAR us, our allies TRUST us, and
the world is SAFER and more stable because of it. This is the leadership
Americans voted for!”

[Senate Majority Leader John
Thune](https://x.com/LeaderJohnThune/status/1957459248096379301):
“President Trump should be commended for his dogged determination to
bring peace to Ukraine and for his courage to engage with all parties in
a way his predecessor refused to do. As peace talks continue today in
Washington, the U.S. Senate stands ready to provide President Trump any
economic leverage needed to keep Russia at the table to negotiate a just
and lasting peace in Ukraine.”

[Senate Majority Whip John
Barrasso](https://x.com/SenJohnBarrasso/status/1957600598070538434):
“We’re seeing America’s strength and leadership under President Trump.
The killing needs to stop. A longstanding, verifiable peace between
Ukraine and Russia is going to be good for Ukraine, Russia, Europe, and
the United States.”

[Senate Republican Conference Chair Tom
Cotton](https://x.com/SenTomCotton/status/1957833365878374688): “Unlike
his predecessor, President Trump has demonstrated peace through strength
on the world stage.”

[Sen. Marsha
Blackburn](https://x.com/MarshaBlackburn/status/1957470223885353214):
“President Trump has not wavered in his pursuit of peace through
strength on the world stage. He is willing to do what Joe Biden never
could.”

[Sen. Katie
Britt](https://x.com/SenKatieBritt/status/1957540924923474173):
“President Trump is the President of Peace and the Dealmaker in Chief.
History needs his strong leadership on the world stage in this pivotal
moment.”

[Sen. Ted Cruz](https://x.com/tedcruz/status/1957623856845263277):
“We’re seeing the prospect of peace because Donald Trump is a strong
commander-in-chief. Putin and our enemies are afraid of him. That’s a
good thing.”

[Sen. Deb
Fischer](https://x.com/SenatorFischer/status/1957481151943135684): “I am
encouraged that Russia remains at the negotiating table as President
Trump continues peace talks to end the war in Ukraine, and I commend the
president for convening European leaders in Washington to secure lasting
peace in Europe. This is what’s possible when America leads with
strength.”

[Sen. Lindsey
Graham](https://x.com/LindseyGrahamSC/status/1957569713141117288): “Well
done, Mr. President. A significant step forward today. Thank you for
meeting with President Zelensky and our European allies. You’re right to
want to end this bloodbath honorably and justly. It is in America’s
interest to make sure this war never restarts again. There appears to be
light at the end of the tunnel after all these years of fighting,
brutality and heartache. President @realDonaldTrump is the right man at
the right time to end this bloodbath.”

[Sen. James
Lankford](https://x.com/SenatorLankford/status/1957549828658852032):
“President Trump has made it clear that ending this three and a half
year war is a top priority. After meeting directly with Russia, he is
now bringing together European leaders and Ukraine to chart the path
toward a meaningful and lasting peace.”

[Sen. Bernie
Moreno](https://x.com/berniemoreno/status/1957519552239268040):
“President Trump delivering a master class in leadership, showcasing
American strength in a way Joe Biden could never have imagined
possible.”

[Sen. Tommy
Tuberville](https://1819news.com/news/item/tuberville-praises-trumps-negotiations-to-end-ukraine-war-we-have-got-to-get-russia-back-in-the-fold):
“Thank goodness we got President Trump that’s speaking for us. He’s a
leader… Putin respects President Trump, and that’s the key card to play
in this game… This is right up his \[Trump’s\] alley, Larry. He loves to
negotiate. He’s a peacemaker. I mean, he’s already stopped, what, five,
six, seven wars that have been fighting all over the world the last 10,
15 years.”

[House Majority Whip Tom
Emmer](https://x.com/GOPMajorityWhip/status/1957585422030196836):
“President Trump is the president of PEACE.”

[Rep. Michael
Baumgartner](https://x.com/RepBaumgartner/status/1957572860479959287):
“Every American should appreciate President Trump’s determination to
help bring an end to the fighting in Ukraine. President Trump certainly
assembled an impressive group of western leaders for this meeting.”

[Rep. Andy
Biggs](https://x.com/RepAndyBiggsAZ/status/1957615137864708150):
“President Trump is the President of Peace! Nations around the world see
that real leadership is back in the Oval Office.”

[Rep. Tim
Burchett](https://x.com/RepTimBurchett/status/1957554145226883186):
“Nothing President Trump does is by accident, it’s all a part of his
plan. I trust @realDonaldTrump to achieve peace in Ukraine, just like
he’s done all across the globe.”

[Rep. Buddy
Carter](https://x.com/RepBuddyCarter/status/1957520462680093131): “No
one could’ve gotten these two men to the point that they are now than
Donald J. Trump. He is the chief negotiator. He has done more to
negotiate peace in the last eight months than anyone in the history of
the world.”

[Rep. Mike
Carey](https://x.com/RepMikeCarey/status/1957827143750013338): “@POTUS
is committed to ending wars, and his record shows it. I was glad to see
him assemble our allies in Washington to find a diplomatic plan for
peace in Ukraine.”

[Rep. Andrew
Clyde](https://x.com/RepKeithSelf/status/1957520586768318858):
“President Trump is the PEACE President.”

[Rep. Pat
Fallon](https://x.com/RepPatFallon/status/1957804260483018794): “Peace
through strength!”

[Rep. Brian
Fitzpatrick](https://x.com/RepBrianFitz/status/1957586872676282575): “I
commend and thank President Trump for today’s critical meeting with
President Zelenskyy and our European allies. This is peace through
strength: American resolve matched with allied unity, securing a safer
and freer world for generations to come. There is more work ahead, but I
am confident the United States, Ukraine, and our allies will rise to
this moment—and together, deliver the triumph of a just and lasting
peace.”

[Rep. Lance
Gooden](https://x.com/Lancegooden/status/1957501693698211843): “The
mainstream media is more outraged by President Trump working to deliver
peace in Ukraine than by Joe Biden allowing Russia to invade Ukraine in
the first place.”

[Rep. Brett
Guthrie](https://x.com/RepGuthrie/status/1957862363463323989): “@POTUS
has proven that strong American leadership on the world stage is
essential to obtaining peace and deterring conflict. Excited by the
progress made yesterday at the White House to finally bring an end to
the war in Ukraine.”

[Rep. Mike
Haridopolos](https://x.com/RepHaridopolos/status/1957809142233538619):
“President Trump is the PEACE President. The Russians, Ukrainians, and
Europeans came to the table on OUR terms to bring a conclusive END to
this destructive war. This is what happens when countries respect
American leadership.”

[Rep. Mark
Harris](https://x.com/RepMarkHarrisNC/status/1957472641872269534):
“Obama and Biden did a terrible job handling Putin, which is why we are
in the mess we are in today. We need peace – and President Trump is the
man finally bringing everyone to the table!”

[Rep. Kevin
Hern](https://x.com/repkevinhern/status/1957820323618828477): “Let’s be
clear: there’s only one leader in the world that has any chance of
bringing Ukraine and Russia together to end this war, and that’s
President Trump.”

[Rep. Richard
Hudson](https://x.com/RepRichHudson/status/1957852908768141344): “Thank
you President Trump. For the first time in four years, we are seeing
real progress toward peace in Ukraine. You are demonstrating that peace
through strength, coupled with the art of the deal, can halt the
bloodshed and move the world closer to a lasting peace.”

[Rep. Wesley Hunt](https://x.com/RepWPH/status/1957519423323140499):
“President Trump is the peace President. He is determined to stop the
killing and save lives. He is our negotiator-in-chief and will not stop
until there is a peace agreement between Russia and Ukraine.”

[Rep. Brad Knott](https://x.com/RepKnott/status/1957432603079827885):
“President Trump has consistently pursued peace. From a position of
strength, he has placed immense pressure on Russia and has positioned us
well to hopefully secure durable peace in Ukraine.”

[Rep. Anna Paulina
Luna](https://x.com/RepLuna/status/1957496807015215174): “I am praying
for POTUS and the other leaders to come to an agreement on Peace. That
is what the world needs.”

[Rep. Michael
McCaul](https://x.com/RepMcCaul/status/1957805882680500647): “President
Biden’s weakness on the global stage led to a world on fire, and
President Trump is working tirelessly to extinguish the flames. I was
proud to see him welcome so many European leaders and allies to the
White House to chart a peaceful path forward that includes security
guarantees for Ukraine. If anyone can secure lasting peace in Europe,
it’s President Trump — as he’s already proven by brokering peace between
Armenia and Azerbaijan, Rwanda and the DRC, and others. His strength and
resolve have no doubt brought Putin to the table, and Congress stands
ready to use economic tools at our disposal to continue putting leverage
on Putin to negotiate in good faith. I will continue to support this
administration’s historic commitment to peace through strength and look
forward to seeing the progress that follows.”

[Rep. Barry
Moore](https://x.com/RepBarryMoore/status/1957541615158874390):
“President Trump is doing more for peace across the globe in his first
few months than prior administrations did throughout their whole term!”

[Rep. Andy
Ogles](https://x.com/SenatorLankford/status/1957795460359336207): “Trump
is not a warmonger—he’s a peacemaker. The world has fewer wars because
of Donald Trump’s leadership.”

[Rep. Keith
Self](https://x.com/RepKeithSelf/status/1957520586768318858): “PEACE
THROUGH STRENGTH.”

[Rep. Claudia
Tenney](https://x.com/RepTenney/status/1957790002550628704): “President
Trump brought Zelensky and European leaders to the table to secure
Ukraine. He knows Putin cannot be trusted, and by isolating him
economically and rallying world leaders, Trump is forcing him into
negotiations. This is historic leadership.”
