---
date: '2025-08-04'
published_time: 2025-08-04 12:47:03-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/2025/08/icymi-for-the-first-time-in-40-years-the-federal-government-can-judge-applicants-by-merit/
tags: articles
title: "ICYMI: \u201CFor The First Time In 40 Years, The Federal Government Can Judge\
  \ Applicants By Merit\u201D"
---
 
A major hurdle to merit-based hiring within the federal workforce was
[overcome](https://www.justice.gov/usao-dc/pr/justice-department-dismisses-race-based-44-year-old-consent-decree)
last week, setting the stage for President Donald J. Trump to make good
on another [key
promise](https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/01/reforming-the-federal-hiring-process-and-restoring-merit-to-government-service/) to
restore the high standards that taxpayers expect from federal service.

[**From The Daily
Wire**](https://www.dailywire.com/news/for-the-first-time-in-40-years-the-federal-government-can-judge-applicants-by-merit)**:**

*“A decades-old court order that blocked the federal government from
using tests to measure job applicants’ skills was terminated by a D.C.
judge on Friday, setting the stage for an overhaul of the federal
workforce that could be one of President Donald Trump’s most lasting
achievements. \[…\]*

*‘We’re making civil service great again,’ OPM Director Scott Kupor told
The Daily Wire Friday.*

*The move opens the door to technocratic hiring assessments that allow
the government to hire applicants who objectively demonstrate the most
aptitude. Kupor told The Daily Wire in an interview that the move means
Americans may start getting better service at government agencies, with
government being more helpful and responsive. \[…\]*

*‘We’re going to be able to attract really, really good people, because
they’re going to be fairly tested for their merit,’ he said. ‘It also
really does eliminate a lot of potential for a bias in the hiring
process if you actually use objective standards.’*

*‘This is a win for fairness, as well as a win for getting American
people the ability to get people with the appropriate skills into the
right jobs.’”*

[**Read the full story
here**](https://www.dailywire.com/news/for-the-first-time-in-40-years-the-federal-government-can-judge-applicants-by-merit)**.**
