---
date: '2025-08-05'
modified_time: 2025-08-06 10:36:39-04:00
published_time: 2025-08-05 20:30:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/2025/08/americans-are-winning-big-with-the-one-big-beautiful-bill/
tags: articles
title: Americans Are Winning Big with the One Big Beautiful Bill
---
 
*“President Trump’s One Big Beautiful Bill is putting America First like
never before, delivering huge savings for hardworking families, boosting
our economy, and securing our borders. As these reports show, President
Trump keeps delivering big wins for the American people. Welcome to
America’s Golden Age!”* — White House Deputy Press Secretary Abigail
Jackson

------------------------------------------------------------------------

As President Donald J. Trump’s groundbreaking One Big Beautiful Bill
takes effect, local media outlets across the country are spotlighting
how this legislation is fueling prosperity and putting more money back
in the pockets of everyday Americans.

**FOX 10 (Phoenix, AZ):** [**‘Trump accounts’ for newborns could grow to
$1.9M, Treasury
says**](https://www.fox10phoenix.com/news/trump-accounts-newborns-grow-treasury)  
*“New Treasury projections show that the ‘Trump accounts’ offered to
American children could grow into a seven-figure nest egg by adulthood,
if maximized and left to compound.*

*The new savings program, tucked into the One Big Beautiful Bill Act and
signed into law by President Donald Trump on July 4, offers children an
initial one-time $1,000 government investment at birth.*

*Parents and relatives can contribute up to $5,000 annually to a child’s
account until the child turns 18, with the cap potentially adjusted for
inflation after 2027… The financial head start for newborns could grow
to as much as $1.9 million by the age of 28 if fully funded and left
untouched, according to the Treasury Office of Tax Analysis.”*
([Watch](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1952762488241455192))

**WPLG-TV (Miami, FL):** [**ICE recruiting former law enforcement
officers amid funding
boost**](https://www.local10.com/news/local/2025/08/03/ice-recruiting-former-law-enforcement-officers-amid-funding-boost/)  
*“As the president’s ‘Big Beautiful Bill’ gives ICE $75 billion in new
funding, it’s now rapidly trying to hire 10,000 more agents.”*
([Watch](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1952350104129613870))

**WIFR-TV (Rockford, IL):** [**Rep. LaHood visits Roscoe business he
says Trump’s ‘One Big Beautiful Bill’
benefits**](https://www.wifr.com/2025/07/31/rep-lahood-visits-roscoe-business-he-says-trumps-one-big-beautiful-bill-benefits/)  
*“LaHood argues the One Big Beautiful Bill Act is forward-thinking and
is vital to America’s prosperity. ‘The bottom line is: you’re only going
to grow the economy with the private sector flourishing. I saw that
first hand here today,’ LaHood says. ‘We’re not gonna grow the economy
with more government spending, so creating that tax certainty is what we
did in the One Big Beautiful Bill and now we gotta implement it over the
next year here.’*
([Watch](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1951297740073234623))

**KXXV-TV (Waco, TX):** [**Trump’s ‘No Tax on Tips’ policy could put
thousands back in servers’
pockets**](https://www.kxxv.com/news/local-news/in-your-neighborhood/trumps-no-tax-on-tips-policy-could-put-thousands-back-in-servers-pockets)  
*“Servers and other tipped workers could see significant financial
benefits from President Trump’s ‘No Tax on Tips’ policy, potentially
saving thousands of dollars annually…. Kyle Citrano, owner of George’s
Restaurant, recently gathered his employees to explain how the ‘No Tax
on Tips’ policy would impact their finances.*

*‘You’re talking $2,500 to $3,000 in their pocket a year. That’s real
life changing money on servers,’ Citrano said.”*
([Watch](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1948030068707459535))

**WJW-TV (Cleveland, OH):** [**Sen. Moreno visits Waste Management
facility**](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1952761043794481238)  
*“Ohio Sen. Bernie Moreno stopped by northeast Ohio this morning to tour
the Waste Management facility in Oakwood. This is part of the big
beautiful bill tour to discuss the budget plan with Ohio workers. One
big point of discussion was the no tax on overtime provision. Moreno
says that will allow workers to earn at least $2,000 more per year. He
also talked about the so-called ‘Trump Accounts,’ which would give
$1,000 to families who have a child.”*
([Watch](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1952761043794481238))

**KXXV-TV (Waco, TX):** [**No tax on overtime: What workers need to know
about the new tax
break**](https://www.kxxv.com/news/local-news/in-your-neighborhood/no-tax-on-overtime-what-workers-need-to-know-about-the-new-tax-break)  
*“A new federal tax break on overtime pay could benefit nurses and other
essential workers who regularly clock extra hours, with potential
savings of thousands annually… Harrell believes this change will make a
significant financial difference for her and her colleagues. ‘Having
that little bit of extra coming off that taxes and not having to pay
that extra in for all the extra work we put in throughout the year would
make a huge difference. I mean that’s someone’s vacation every single
year,’ she said.”*
([Watch](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1948023614336315895))

**KOCO-TV (Oklahoma City, OK):** [**FAA academy in OKC sees record
number of students amid air traffic controller
shortage**](https://www.koco.com/article/oklahoma-faa-academy-sees-increase-air-traffic-controller-trainees/65440306)  
*“More tools could be coming to the industry, and to the academy
specifically, after President Donald Trump signed the ‘big, beautiful
bill’ into law. The bill allocated $12.5 billion to air traffic control
upgrades.*

*‘In that $12.5, it was $100 million that was slated for training,
technology, simulation,’ Wilbanks said. Wilbanks said there are also
opportunities to upgrade Terminal Radar Approach Control systems, which
is a type of air traffic control that keeps planes separated and safe at
distances further from an airport and at higher altitudes… Those
investments could play a vital role in keeping the nation’s skies safe
and keeping Oklahoma a leader in the aviation industry for decades to
come.”*
([Watch](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1947470519873507422))

**KCRG-TV (Cedar Rapids, IA): **[**Small businesses say ‘no tax on tips’
a step in the right
direction**](https://www.kcrg.com/2025/07/30/small-businesses-say-no-tax-tips-step-right-direction/)  
*“Some business owners in eastern Iowa say new ‘no tax on tips’
provisions will help grow local businesses… It’s a relief some
businesses say will make a huge difference with their employees…*. *Some
view no tax on tips as a reinvestment in their workers and a way to
offer some stability. ‘In the service industry too, you’re always
constantly worried about what that end of the year number is going to
be, and now with this we kind of have some relief with that,’ said Cora
Krueger.”*
([Watch](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1950898317228929161))
