---
date: '2025-08-13'
modified_time: 2025-08-13 09:57:38-04:00
published_time: 2025-08-13 09:57:13-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/2025/08/america-first-in-action-deportations-surge-jobs-return-dc-gets-tough/
tags: articles
title: 'America First in Action: Deportations Surge, Jobs Return, D.C. Gets Tough'
---
 
As President Donald J. Trump delivers on his promise to restore American
greatness, today’s headlines showcase his undeniable progress. From
ramping up deportations of criminal illegal immigrants to sparking
massive investments in U.S. manufacturing and cracking down on crime in
the nation’s capital, President Trump is proving that bold leadership
drives results.

**Here are three things to know this Wednesday:**

### **✈️** **Criminal Illegal Immigrant Deportations Ramp Up**

“The number of ICE flights is skyrocketing” amid President Trump’s
unprecedented effort to remove [dangerous criminal illegal
immigrants](https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/2025/06/every-day-the-trump-administration-is-getting-violent-criminal-illegals-off-our-streets/)
from our homeland, [CNN
reports](https://www.cnn.com/2025/08/13/politics/ice-flights-locations-tracking-maps).

*“As President Donald Trump moves to remove as many as 1 million
immigrants a year from the US, putting more detainees on more airplanes,
and with more frequency, has become a key feature of carrying out that
endeavor…*

*Though flights have been a part of US immigration operations for years,
the speed and scale of the ICE program today is unprecedented. Since
Trump’s inauguration, there have been more than 1,000 deportation
flights to other countries, up 15% over the January to July period last
year… the increase is notable in its expansiveness as well as volume.”*

### **🏭** **Another Big Investment in American Production**

GE Appliances
[announced](https://pressroom.geappliances.com/news/ge-appliances-announces-historic-3-billion-investment-to-expand-u-s-manufacturing)
a $3 billion investment in its U.S.-based manufacturing, onshoring 1,000
jobs and expanding its plants across five states — further evidence that
President Trump’s relentless pursuit of his Made in America agenda is
working.

From [*The Wall Street
Journal*](https://www.wsj.com/business/ge-appliances-plans-3-billion-u-s-investment-to-help-blunt-tariffs-e07b1e73):

*“GE Appliances said it plans to invest $3 billion to expand and
modernize its U.S. factories over the next five years, helping to blunt
the effects of tariffs by reshoring some work now done in China and
Mexico…*

*Kevin Nolan, GE Appliances’ chief executive, said that while the
company has long aimed to build its products close to their end markets,
trade considerations played a role in the decision to upgrade its aging
plants.*

*‘I think it’s become obvious with tariffs that building in the U.S. is
a good thing right now,’ he said…*

*The Trump administration’s aggressive trade stance is propelling other
industries to increase investment in U.S. production. Taiwan
Semiconductor Manufacturing has been directing funds more quickly toward
U.S. expansion ahead of possible U.S. tariffs,* The Wall Street Journal
*reported last month. Drugmakers have also outlined plans to step up
investment in U.S. production, after the Trump administration prepared
to levy duties on medicine imports.”*

### **⚖️** **Trump Administration Finally Brings Accountability to D.C.**

As the Trump Administration continues its
[long-promised](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1955423819214057572)
push to [Make D.C. Safe
Again](https://www.whitehouse.gov/fact-sheets/2025/08/fact-sheet-president-donald-j-trump-declares-a-crime-emergency-to-restore-safety-in-the-district-of-columbia/),
U.S. Attorney for the District of Columbia Jeanine Pirro has a warning
for would-be criminals: “We will identify you, prosecute you and convict
you,” she [writes in *The Washington
Post*](https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/2025/08/12/jeanine-pirro-juvenile-adult-crime/).

*“My job is to prosecute crime and ensure that people who live in and
visit our nation’s capital are safe. President Donald Trump has drawn
much-needed attention to public safety in this city to make D.C. safe
and beautiful. To do so, I must demand accountability from juvenile and
young adult offenders.*

*Unfortunately, young criminals have been emboldened to think they can
get away with committing crime in this city, and, very often, they do.
But together with our local and federal partners, our message to them
today is: We will identify you, prosecute you and convict you. For any
juveniles: We are going to push to change the laws so that if you commit
any violent crime, I have jurisdiction to prosecute you where you belong
— in adult court…*

*We deserve a safe capital. In fact, we have a right to demand it. Here
in the U.S. attorney’s office, we are tirelessly working to protect all
people who live in, work and visit our nation’s capital.”*
