---
date: '2025-08-28'
modified_time: 2025-08-28 10:57:20-04:00
published_time: 2025-08-28 10:57:19-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/2025/08/white-house-honors-law-enforcement-heroes-in-fight-against-drug-trafficking/
tags: articles
title: White House Honors Law Enforcement Heroes in Fight Against Drug Trafficking
---
 
**Washington, D.C.** – Today, The White House Office of National Drug
Control Policy (ONDCP) hosted the U.S. Interdiction Coordinator (USIC)
Awards Ceremony, recognizing the extraordinary achievements of federal,
state, and local law enforcement officers on the front lines of the
nation’s fight against drug trafficking. The ceremony honored 10
individuals and task forces for their courage, innovation, and
unwavering commitment to dismantling the criminal organizations that
threaten American communities.

The event, held in the Eisenhower Executive Office Building at the White
House, underscored the Administration’s proactive and aggressive stance
against the flow of illicit drugs into the United States. Special
Advisor Sara Carter and U.S. Interdiction Coordinator (USIC) Shannon
Kelly presided over the ceremony, praising the honorees as true patriots
defending the nation.

“A chemical war is being waged against the American people, and for too
long, America has been on the defensive. This Administration has made a
clear choice: the time for reactive measures is over. Our new posture is
one of persistent and aggressive offense,” said Special Advisor Sara
Carter. “Today, we honor the heroes who are taking the fight to the
enemy. These men and women represent the very best of us, and we are
committed to providing them with the resources and unwavering support
they need to dismantle these networks and win this fight.”

The USIC Awards celebrate the full spectrum of the interdiction effort,
from complex cyber investigations to high-risk maritime operations. The
ceremony highlighted the creativity and dedication of law enforcement
professionals who are developing new strategies to combat evolving
threats.

“The actions we honored today represent moments of bravery, hours of
painstaking investigation, and a level of dedication that is nothing
short of heroic,” said U.S. Interdiction Coordinator Shannon Kelly. “The
work of these patriots is the shield that protects American communities.
Every seizure and every arrest has a real-world impact, saving countless
lives. Their success is built on partnership, and it is a powerful
reminder that our ability to operate as one unified force is our
greatest strategic advantage.”

Among the distinguished honorees were:

-   The Bitcoin Fog Government Trial Team, recognized for dismantling
    one of the internet’s oldest and most notorious cryptocurrency
    mixing services, which laundered over $300 million for darknet drug
    traffickers.
-   The U.S. Coast Guard Cutter Munro and its embarked Helicopter
    Interdiction Tactical Squadron (HITRON) Detachment, for exemplary
    teamwork in the seizure of over 3,200 kilograms of cocaine in a
    daring maritime operation.
-   The CBP Fentanyl Canine Detection Training Team, for developing a
    revolutionary program that has empowered officers on the front lines
    and led to a staggering 860% increase in fentanyl seizures at U.S.
    ports of entry.

The ceremony proudly recognized these patriots for their hard work,
creativity, and willingness to defend America, sending a clear message
that the White House is committed to taking a proactive stance against
the scourge of illegal drugs.

To read more about President Trump’s priorities to protect the United
States from the scourge of illicit drugs, click
[here](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/04/2025-Trump-Administration-Drug-Policy-Priorities.pdf).
