---
date: '2022-04-18'
modified_time: 2022-04-18 20:35:21-04:00
published_time: 2022-04-18 20:35:20-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/04/18/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-april-18-2022/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Jen\_Psaki, April 18,\_2022"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

4:07 P.M. EDT       
  
*(The Easter Bunny enters the room and stands at the podium.)*  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Who knows who’s under here?  (Laughter.)  No more bunny
business.   
  
*(The Easter Bunny leaves the podium.)*  
  
That’s the line we worked on.  Do you guys like it?  (Laughter.)  
  
Thank you for joining us, Easter Bunny.  
  
Q    Are there sticks and carrots?   
  
(Laughter.)  
  
Q    Oooh —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Ooh, Kelly, coming with the fire today.  (Laughter.)  I like
it.  
  
Okay.  Okay.  Okay.  A couple of items for you at the top.  Happy Tax
Day to those who celebrate, which we hope is everyone in the room.  
  
Q    Oh, bring back the bunny.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  (Laughs.)  As part of Tax Day, we’re highlighting the real
difference between the President and congressional Republicans.   
  
President Biden has a simple philosophy: The middle class deserves some
financial breathing room, which is why his economic plan would give tax
relief to tens of millions of families — families who work hard and
deserve a little extra cushion each month.  
  
And the President believes billionaires should pay their fair share so
we can invest in our economic future and cut the deficit.  That’s why
he’s calling on the top 1 percent of the top 1 percent to pay the
minimum tax of 20 percent, when, right now, the wealthiest families can
pay a lower average rate than teachers.  
  
And let me be crystal clear: The President will not raise taxes for
anyone making under $400,000.   
  
The congressional Republican plan, however, as Senator Rick Scott
outlined, couldn’t be more different.  Republicans on Capitol Hill are
more than happy to pass a nearly $2 trillion tax giveaway to the wealthy
and big corporations under the previous — they were, under the previous
administration.   
  
But now, led by Senator Scott, Republicans want to raise taxes on the
middle class, with one independent analysis showing their plan would
hike taxes by an average of around $1,500 each year on 75 million
American families, 96 percent of whom make under $100,000.  That’s the
plan of congressional Republicans: tax hikes for the middle class; tax
hikes for the wealthy and big corporations.  
  
President Biden disagrees.  It’s time to put the middle class first.  
  
Tomorrow, as you may know, the President is traveling to New Hampshire
to highlight infrastructure investments to modernize our nation’s ports
and waterways, and discuss how these investments will strengthen our
supply chain, support local economies, and help cut costs for American
families.  
  
American ports are a cornerstone of the United States economy, but
outdated infrastructure in the COVID-19 pandemic have strained their
capacity and jeopardized global supply chains, which has caused delays
and passed costs directly to consumers.  
  
Thanks to the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, we now have $17 billion to
upgrade, repair, and maintain our nation’s port infrastructure.  
  
As the President continues to use every tool to help bring down prices
for Americans, investments that strengthen domestic supply chains and
move goods faster and more efficiently are critical to lowering costs
for families.   
  
So, during his trip tomorrow, he will visit Portsmouth Harbor, which is
the only deep-water harbor in New Hampshire and handles approximately
3.\[5\] million tons and nearly $2 billion of cargo a year, including
critical materials to support the local economy and clean energy
production.  
  
The port recently completed a project to widen the harbor’s turning
basin and will receive funding from the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law to
maintain safe and efficient operations along the channel — both crucial
projects to accommodate larger ships and heavier loads of cargo.  
  
I also wanted to note — a bunch of scheduling things today — today, we
are pleased to announce that we will co-host the second Global \[COVID\]
19 Summit virtually on May 12th, alongside Belize, Germany, Indonesia,
and Senegal.  
  
The virtual summit will redouble our efforts to end the acute phase of
the pandemic and prepare for future pandemics and other health
threats.  
  
Our role in co-hosting this summit continues to highlight — is to
continue to highlight American leadership in the global COVID response,
with our provision to date of more than $19 billion in health,
humanitarian, and economic assistance, and our commitment to provide 1.2
billon vaccine doses to the world for free, of which we have already
delivered more than 500 million doses.  
  
And while we are dedicated to continuing to lead the global COVID
response, we also need Congress to urgently do its part to fund the
global COVID response.  
  
We have requested a supplemental funding package for our most urgent
needs to get shots into the arms and to provide lifesaving tests,
treatments, and supplies.  And we will obviously continue to work with
Congress on getting that funding when they return.  
  
Finally, I wanted to — last thing is that we also announced that
on <s>March</s> \[May\] 12th and 13th, the President will host the
leaders of the ASEAN in Washington, D.C.  It will build on President
Biden’s participation in the October 2021 U.S.-ASEAN Summit, where the
President announced $102 million in new initiatives to expand our
engagement with ASEAN on COVID-19, promoting economic growth and more.  
  
And this will, of course — we’ll have more to preview as we get closer
to that trip.  
  
Josh, why don’t you kick us off?  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  Happy Monday.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Happy Monday.  
  
Q    Two subject areas.  First, a federal judge in Florida says the CDC
exceeded its authority with the mask mandate in airports.  What’s the
White House position?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  The CDC recommended continuing the order for additional time
— two weeks — to be able to assess the latest science in keeping with
its responsibility to protect the American people.   
  
So, this is obviously a disappointing decision.  The CDC continues
recommending wearing a mask in public transit.  As you know, this just
came out this afternoon.  So, right now, the Department of Homeland
Security, who would be implementing, and the CDC are reviewing the
decision.  And, of course, the Department of Justice would make any
determinations about litigation.  
  
Q    Secondly, Russia is expected to virtually attend meetings of the
IMF and World Bank this week.  Is that appropriate, given the actions in
Ukraine?  And how should international organizations treat Russia?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, the President has made clear that he does not believe
we should be operating as business as usual.  And he’s made clear about
his concerns about their participation in the G20.   
  
I’d also note that our representative there, the Secretary of Treasury,
has made clear that she isn’t planning to attend events or meetings that
the Russians are participating in.  But in terms of other determinations
beyond that, I don’t have any further comment.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    A question on this move to restart the sale of leases for drilling
on public lands.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    How long do you think it will take for these new leases to actually
start producing?  And what impact do you think this might have on gas
prices?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, let me first say that today’s action — as you know,
but for everybody — was the result of a court injunction that we
continue to appeal.  And it’s not in line with the President’s policy,
which was to ban additional leasing because, one, we need to move
towards a more clean energy economy, which he strongly believes in, but
also because there are 9,000 permits, unused, on lands that could be
tapped into by oil companies, and we don’t feel they are needed.   
  
In terms of how long it will take to get up drilling because of the
court action, I don’t have any assessment on that from here.  I would
just note that we are going to continue to fight this court injunction
that is forcing our hand in allowing this to proceed, even as we have
taken actions to reduce by 80 percent the areas to lease and impose
stringent environmental standards.  
  
Q    But the President has promised to slash greenhouse gas emissions in
half by 2030.  Now you’re having to expand production of fossil fuels
when you promised to curtail them.  Congress, as we know, has yet to act
on many of your climate proposals.  
  
Is the President’s ambitious climate change goal and agenda still
attainable, or are these new leases going to undercut that pledge?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, again, these leases are not in line with our policy or
the President’s view.  
  
Q    But whether it’s your, you know, policy or not, I mean, this is the
situation that you’re in.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  It is.  And we’re going to continue — there’s — there is —
obviously, we’re going to continue to fight this legal action.  
  
But I would say that, you know, the President remains committed. 
Addressing the climate crisis is one of the four pillars that he came in
— he ran on as President and he will continue to fight for.  
  
One of the reasons that this was so troubling to him is because he is so
committed to that — that objective as President.  And we continue to
propose — have continued to propose a historic investment in addressing
the climate crisis, something that we will continue to discuss with
Congress.  
  
So, there are a lot of ways to get there that we will continue to work
with Congress to take actions, but he has also not hesitated to take
actions himself through his own authorities to take actions to help our
climate.   
  
Q    So — but are you still confident that goal is achievable?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We are continuing to pursue it, and we are going to continue
to do everything we can to reach it.  
  
Go ahead.  Go ahead, Steve.  
  
Q    Sorry.  Oh, thank you.  House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy is
saying President Putin probably would have backed off from invading
Ukraine if President Biden had shipped weapons to Ukraine sooner.  Does
the President feel he should have acted sooner?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, I mean, just for facts’ sake, we sent a record
amount of security assistance to Ukraine during President Biden’s first
year in office — more than any other president in history — and we
shared a significant amount of intelligence with Ukraine about Russia’s
intentions and military movements, as you all know because we’ve talked
about it in here: $3.2 billion total, $2.6 billion since this conflict
started.    
  
That’s in direct contrast with our predecessor who withheld hundreds of
millions of dollars in military aid from Ukraine, including Javelins,
which Mr. McCarthy, who was critical of us in this moment, defended at
the time as, quote, “the rightful thing to do” because he claimed people
believed there was corruption in the Zelenskyy administration.  
  
So, I don’t know if that’s a question for us as much as a question for
him — what has changed in that period of time.  
  
Q    And, secondly, are you planning more sanctions this week on Russia,
more oligarchs?  What can you tell us?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We are continuing to review and consider additional
sanctions.  It’s been an ongoing process.  But right now, you will — so
you will see us continue to expand our sanctions targets and to continue
to take steps to both further tighten our sanctions to prevent evasion
and put in place additional sanctions.   
  
I also wanted to note a couple of comments for anyone with questions —
which probably isn’t anyone in this room, but maybe — whether these
sanctions are having an impact.  One is by the chairwoman of the Russian
national — central bank, who said these sanctions are — quote, “will now
begin to increasingly affect the real sectors of the economy,” and,
quote, “practically every product.”  

She also said that, quote, “that sanctions are being tightened almost
every day,” and, quote, “the period during which the economy can live on
reserves is finite,” meaning these are really having the squeeze that
the President, the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Treasury, and
others have conveyed.    
  
But we are continuing to review, and I expect we’ll have more in the
coming days.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Just to quickly follow up on the mask mandate being voided by this
judge, what is the White House’s assessment of what that means for
travelers today?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, it just happened this afternoon.  And so, the
Department of Homeland Security is over — obviously oversees the
implementation of this, and they’re reviewing it as we speak.   
  
Q    So it’s still in place right now?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  They are doing it as we speak.  It just came out this
afternoon.  And if there any updates while I’m out here, I’m sure we can
provide them to all of you.   
  
Q    Okay.  And President Zelenskyy told Jake Tapper yesterday that he
wants President Biden to visit Ukraine and he believes that he will. 
You said last week there were no plans being made for President Biden to
go.  Is that still the case?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  That has not changed.  What our focus continues to be on is
providing Ukraine, the Ukrainian government, and Ukrainian leaders a
historic amount of security assistance — assistance that’s been adapted
based on their needs and their successes on the grounds.  And,
obviously, that can be attributed largely to the courage and the bravery
of Ukrainian leaders.  But the second reason is because of the military
assistance we provided.   
  
I would note, because I know this is an understandable question you all
have asked, that if anyone were to go — there’s no plans for the
President to go, so let me just reiterate that — but we would not
outline from here or anywhere from the government who, if, and when for
security reasons.  So we wouldn’t have any details to preview
regardless.  
  
Q    Is the President considering granting President Zelenskyy’s request
to make Russia a state sponsor of terrorism?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  So that is a process that — it’s an authority that obviously
exists within the government and at the State Department.  And in order,
just broadly speaking, for any country to be designated a state sponsor
of terror — and there’s only <s>three</s> \[four\] — North
Korea, <s>Sudan</s> \[Syria\], and Iran — at this point in time, just
for your full perspective — the Secretary of State would need to
determine the government of that country has repeatedly provided support
for acts of international terrorism.  And these, of course, designations
are made after careful review.  
  
So while we have those authorities, I don’t have any update on that or
prediction of that; that assessment would be made by the State
Department.  
  
What I would note, which I think is important, is that for the countries
that have been designated state sponsors of terrorism — so I named a
couple of them for you — that the four main categories of sanctions that
result from designation under these authorities include restrictions on
U.S. foreign assistance, a ban on defense exports and sales, certain
controls over exports of dual-use items, and other financial
restrictions.   
  
And what we’ve already done to date is, of course, impose significant
financial sanctions, export controls, and curtailed restrictions on
financial assistance.  So when you’re thinking about the impact, these
are already a lot of steps that we’ve taken.   
  
But I have nothing to predict on that front.  That’s a — that’s a
process that would have to be reviewed through the State Department.  
  
Q    Okay.  And last question.  Russia warned the United States last
week to stop arming Ukraine or it will risk “unpredictable
consequences.”  What does the U.S. believe those consequences would
be?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, we’re not going to comment.  I mean, I’m not going to
speculate on empty threats or threats by President Putin or by Russian
leadership.  What we have done here is done exactly what the President
said we would do from the beginning, which is to — if they invaded, we
would be providing significant security assistance, economics
assistance, and support to the Ukrainian people.  And we’re going to
continue to do exactly that.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    I want to belabor this only because we’ve heard from the airlines,
from airport passengers; there may be people sitting at an airport bar
watching right now, wondering: If they’re boarding a flight tonight, is
the mask mandate still in place?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  We’re continuing to recommend people wear masks.  I don’t
have any update.  This just came out through the courts just this
afternoon.  And as soon as there is an update, we will provide that to
all of you.   
  
Q    Is the White House anticipating an announcement by Homeland
Security tonight?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  They are assessing it right now.  And as soon as they have
an assessment and an update on additional steps, they’ll make that
available.  
  
Q    But if the DOJ, say, doesn’t stay the order tonight or first thing
tomorrow morning, are passengers supposed to go maskless?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I understand why you’re asking, and certainly no one here is
trying to provoke uncertainty with passengers.  We also think the mask
mandate should be in place and that it’s safer for individuals who are
flying to continue to wear masks.  
  
So we would say to anyone sitting out there: We’d recommend you wear
masks on the airplane.  And then, as soon as we can provide an update
from here — hopefully soon — we’ll provide that to all of you.   
  
Q    Two more related CDC things.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    In the ruling, the judge said that she accepts the CDC’s argument
that masks limit COVID spread, but that alone is not sufficient to
overcome what she concludes is a rule that exceeds the agency’s
authority to put it in place.  The administration believes otherwise. 
Right?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, otherwise we wouldn’t have put it in place to begin
with.  
  
Q    Okay.  So, that, potentially, is the crux of an appeal or an
attempt to stop it?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, again, I would leave that to the Department of
Justice.   
  
But all — what we — what we announced last week was just a two-week
extension in order to have time to assess what we’ve all seen is rising
cases, and make an assessment and recommendation with that in mind.  So,
of course, it’s disappointing.  
  
Q    There’s another issue the CDC is in the middle of that’s troubling
some Democrats, and that is, of course, the impending end of Title 42. 
Gary Peters, who chairs the Homeland Security Committee — another
Democratic senator – today, suggesting he has doubts about ending Title
42, says that Secretary Mayorkas is scheduled to be there for a budget
hearing, I believe later this month or next month.  What more, though,
is the administration sharing with these Democrats and Republicans, but
notably a handful of Democrats who say they don’t see a firm plan, they
want more details, and the administration seems to be rushing into this
with no sense of what the repercussions could be?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think it’s important to remember this is not an
immigration authority — for anyone who has concerns about it — nor is it
an immigration plan.  We’ve never said it was.  It is a health authority
that Congress gave the CDC authority to make a determination about,
about whether it needs to stay in place or not.  
  
There is no question we have a broken immigration system, there’s more
we need to do.  We’ve been saying that from the first day the President
took office.  And anyone who wants to work on that — Democrats,
Republicans, anyone — how we can put smarter security in place, how we
can have an asylum processing system that works, we would love to do
that.  
  
But what they’re — what is happening right now is they’re essentially
holding hostage funding for COVID.  And we are going to run out of
funding — we’re already running out of funding — for key programs.  So
our issue here is let’s move forward with the COVID funding.  We’re
happy to have a discussion about the broken immigration system.  We
agree it’s broken.  Let’s work together on addressing that.  
  
Q    You say that because there’s this amendment to the COVID plan —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, that’s the —  
  
Q    — that would put it in place?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I say that because that’s the root issue here, isn’t it?  I
mean, anyone who’s raising concerns, they’re tying it to — they’re tying
it to the COVID funding.   
  
Q    Republicans are, but you got a handful of Democrats who aren’t
necessarily supportive of that amendment.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I understand that, but we’re also happy to work with anyone
on immigration reform and any concerns they have.  
  
Q    But it sounds like the answer is, “If you’ve got concerns, you,
Congress, do something about it.”  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well —  
  
Q    Not “here’s what happens on May 25th, once Title 42 is gone.”  
  
MS. PSAKI:  The President put forward a bill his first day in office. 
It’s not “you do something about it.”  Let’s work together on it.  And
we’re happy to do that.  You have different ideas, you want to talk
about how to move this forward?  Let’s do that.  
  
At the same time, what’s happening is this COVID funding, which means
people who are uninsured are not going to be able to get access to
treatments, to vaccines — we’re going — and we’re not going to be able
to get the fourth booster shot to everybody.  We’re not going to be able
to get the treatments for immunocompromised.   
  
So that’s where we’re at.  And that’s why it’s important to move that
funding for it.  And, yes, our system is broken.  Let’s address it.  But
this is a health authority, not an immigration authority.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, Jen.  You said about this mask ruling out of a federal
court in Florida that it’s a “disappointing decision,” and you say you
continue to recommend that people wear masks.  Why is it that we can sit
here in the White House briefing room with no masks, but people can’t
sit in an airplane cabin with no masks?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, Peter, I’m not a doctor.  You’re not a doctor — that
I’m aware of.  If you’re a doctor, I wasn’t aware of that today — until
today.  
  
Q    Can confirm.  Right.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Okay, not a doctor.  (Laughter.)  Just making sure.  I don’t
know.

Q    Nor do you play one on TV.

MS. PSAKI:  Nor does he play one on TV.  There you go.  Most days.

But these determinations — remember the masking guidance is — there are
— is green, yellow, and red.  We are currently in a green zone in
Washington, D.C., so they’re not recommending it.

Some people can still wear a mask if they want to — many people do — or
wear them in meetings or wear them at certain times where you’re going
to be around or sitting close to people, or maybe you have an
immunocompromised parent or — or friend.  And so people make that
decision.

And there’s — this is based on health considerations and data that the
CDC looks at about transmissibility as — as we’ve seen an increase in
cases on — on airplanes.

Q    Jen, would the President support if a flight is leaving from an
airport in a green zone, those people don’t have to wear masks?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Again, Peter, there’s a — there’s been long a difference
from the beginning about people on an airplane and in federal
transportation vehicles and situations than where they are in locations,
like we here — here continue to be, in Washington, D.C., a green zone.

But what we had asked for — I think it’s important to remember — is a
two-week extension — or not asked for — what we had announced was a
two-week extension to look at the data and make recommendations based on
the data and the science about whether it should be continued or not.  
  
Q    Okay.  On a different topic, we have new reporting that at least 23
people apprehended at the southern border in 2021 are on the terror
watchlist.  Why do you guys think it is that somebody on a terror
watchlist would want to get into the United States undetected?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I can’t make an assessment of that.  But what I can
tell you is that your data you’re citing here, it means the Border
Patrol was doing their job.  I mean, they —

Q    So — so, sixty-two- —

MS. PSAKI:  — they apprehended people at the border.

Q    — -two thousand illegal immigrants a day got away last month.  Are
you saying that you can say with certainty none of them are on a terror
watchlist?

MS. PSAKI:  Here’s what we’re talking about: Encounters, we know, and —
of suspected terrorists attempting to cross the southern border, they’re
very uncommon.  We’re talking about a few dozen annual encounters at
most — at most.  And these encounters represent significantly less than
the .01 percent of total encounters per fiscal year in recent years.

But I’d note: These individuals, these 23 people — the Border Patrol,
they stopped them.  They prevented them from getting into the country. 
They’re protecting our homeland and keeping us safe.  
  
Q    So the President is not worried about holes in the southern border
being exploited by people trying to come in and kill Americans?

MS. PSAKI:  He’s grateful to the Border Patrol for doing their job and —
and stopping these people and preventing them from getting into the
country.  
  
Q    And one additional question about something that happened a few
months ago down at the border: We’ve been told that the mounted Border
Patrol officers the President accused of whipping migrants have been
notified they will not face criminal charges.  So, when is the President
going to apologize to them?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  There is a process and an investigation that’s gone to the
Department of Homeland Security.  I don’t have any update on that.  
  
Q    The President said that they were whipping people, which would be a
criminal offense.  And they’ve been told they’re not going to be
criminally charged.  So will the President —

MS. PSAKI:  And there was an investigation into that.  And I’ll let the
Department of Homeland Security announce any conclusion of that
investigation.

Q    You accused these officers of brutal and inappropriate measures. 
Now that they’ve been told they will not be criminally charged, will you
apologize to them?

MS. PSAKI:  And, Peter, there was an investigation into their behavior,
so that investigation is playing out.  Whenever there — it’s going to be
announced, the Department of Homeland Security will announce that.  And
then I’m sure we’ll have a comment on it after that.

Go ahead.  
  
Q    Back on the mask issue: As the debate is going on about next steps,
is there any concern in the White House that this issue — now that there
are some Americans who are aware of this ruling by the Florida judge —
that it could prompt some of the tensions we’ve seen on airplanes in
recent months until there’s a resolution?

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah, Kelly, it’s a great question.  Obviously, what we’re
trying to do — what we would encourage is calm in all cases.  And
because this ruling just came out this afternoon, I know the objective
of everybody involved and all the necessary authorities in government is
to make a determination about next steps as quickly as possible.  So
that’s certainly our hope, and we want to do everything we can to
prevent that.  
  
Q    On the oil leases: Does the President see any secondary benefit to
the fact that even though this is not his policy objective, that there
could be some additional production that could help, given the fact that
gas prices are high and there has been a push to have additional
production because of the war in Ukraine, even though it’s not his
policy objective?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I can tell you from talking with him about this this
morning, he does not.  He believes that, as he announced and — he
remains committed to the ban he called for on the expansion of — of
leasing on federal lands, in part because he wants to move toward a
clean energy economy — and he’s very committed to that — and address
climate change, but also because there’s 9,000 unused leases that can be
tapped into and used.  And we certainly have encouraged oil companies to
do that to help address, exactly as you said, the need to get more
supply in the marketplace.

Q    Does he see this move by the Department of Interior as a — going
against his campaign pledge?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, he sees — he knows that it was the result of a court
injunction, as you heard Secretary Haaland say.  And so it was — her
hands were tied in many ways, as they can be, by legal — by legal
requirements.

But what they did, which he certainly supported, was take steps to
reduce by 80 percent the areas to lease.  And they also imposed
stringent environmental safeguards in order to take additional steps,
even as the court injunction made them take this — these steps.  
  
Q    You did not mention Cuba as a state sponsor of terror.  Should we
read into that?

MS. PSAKI:  I did not mean to not mention them.  I wanted to cite some
examples, just to give people a sense of how few there are and what
kinds of countries.  I wasn’t meant to —

Q    You’re not lifting them.

MS. PSAKI:  I’m not announcing new policy.  No, I’m not.  (Laughter.) 
I’m not announcing new policy.  I just wanted to give an indication of
what that is and how limited the number of countries are.

Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you.  This is a question that comes from one of my colleagues
who’s reporting in Ukraine right now.

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.

Q    He is wondering, you know, as conditions in Mariupol continue to
disintegrate, is the United States considering any creative ways to help
the Ukrainians who are under siege — for instance, sending in
third-country planes or planes from a neutral organization like the Red
Cross to get relief in there?

MS. PSAKI:  So, you mean humanitarian relief?

Q    Yes.

MS. PSAKI:  We are engaged with surrounding countries, with aid
organizations about a range of ways to get aid and assistance in.  And,
obviously, from the start of this, if there was — if there was an
allowance or an implementation of these humanitarian corridors, it would
have helped enable.  But we can’t talk about a lot of those things from
here.  But we are going to continue to take steps to provide
humanitarian assistance in every way that we can.

I would note — you didn’t ask this question, but just one other little
update: There were four planes that arrived, of military assistance,
over the course of the weekend.  Another one tod- — is supposed to
arrive today, if it hasn’t already, from the $800 million package the
President announced.  So just to give you a sense of our efforts to
continue to get more assistance in.  
  
Q    And completely unrelated, but today on a background call about
climate policy, an administration official said that the White House is
in touch with a wide range of members of Congress about a reconciliation
package.  So are negotiations ongoing for Build Back Better or Building
a Better America or whatever you’re calling it now?  And are you talking
about it?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We — we are talking about it, whatever you call it — a
reconciliation package — including getting a historic investment in
climate; including lowering the cost of childcare, eldercare, and
healthcare — taking all of these steps that the President has been
committed to.  These conversations have been ongoing over the course of
the last several months.  
  
Q    And are those — is Joe Manchin involved in those conversations? 
Who are you talking to?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We’re talking to everybody across the board.  I’m not going
to name all the names, but they’re all included — Democrats across the
board who want to get this done.  
  
Go ahead.

Q    Is the U.S. moving any closer to reopening its embassy in Kyiv now
that Spain is joining France, Italy, and others in doing so?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, certainly that’s our objective — is to open it.  But
what we — what we are evaluating is, obviously, security considerations
and when the State Department is prepared to do that.  

So — and we look at, kind of, who should go first and how many — and how
many people and when.  But it’s all done through the State Department. 
And they make those initial recommendations about when to return.  

But that certainly is our objective.  Obviously, having a diplomatic
presence on the — on the ground is important.  
  
Q    And just one more thing.  President Zelenskyy says the Russians
have begun their offensive to take control of eastern Ukraine.  What is
the administration’s assessment of what’s happening there now?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I know that my Defense Department colleague just did a
briefing, so I’d really point you to the Department of Defense for any
kind of on-the-ground updates. 

Go ahead.

Q    Yesterday, on CBS, Senator Coons said that without the West coming
more forcefully to Ukraine’s aid, he said, quote, “I deeply worry
that…we will see Ukraine turn into Syria.”  Does the President share
that concern?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  That’s not words or a phrase the President would use or we
would use from — from the United States.  Obviously, what we’ve seen to
date is the Ukrainians bravely fight back against the Russians and win,
essentially, the Battle of Kyiv and continue to fight back against their
efforts across the country.

We’ve known and predicted that they would move their ground game to
eastern Ukraine, which is exactly what they’ve done.  And we also have
known and predicted — and when — when Jake Sullivan was here just a week
or two ago, he also conveyed that they were — that Moscow was likely to
launch air and missile strikes across Ukraine to cause military and
economic damage.  That’s what we’re seeing in Lviv and other — and other
places at this point in time.

But what we’ve seen, I think, is them behave bravely, with huge courage,
and they have had the success in pushing back against the Russians
because of that, but also because of the military assistance provided by
the United States.  So, no, we would not share that assessment.  
  
Q    And on the diplomatic front, are — is the administration any closer
to naming an ambassador to Ukraine?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I certainly understand the question.  I don’t have any
update on that at this point from here.    
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  I want to ask about a story some of my colleagues
reported earlier today.  Some allies of former President Trump have been
pressing for statehouses around the country to pass resolutions
rescinding Electoral College votes for President Biden and to bring
lawsuits that seek to prove baseless claims of large-scale voter fraud. 
Legal experts have called this effort “preposterous,” but is an
organized push among those allies to decertify the last election
something this administration is monitoring or concerned about?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say that there have been dozens of court cases
that have not been won by our predecessor and people who support him in
an effort to overturn the outcome of the last election.  And our focus
is on governing for the American people, delivering for the American
people, and less on focusing on what he and his people are up to.    
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Yeah.  Thanks, Jen.  I wanted to follow up on the question earlier
regarding Senator Coons’s comments.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    One of the points he was making was that the U.S. needs to have a
conversation about sending U.S. troops to Ukraine.  He told “Face the
Nation” yesterday, quote, “The American people cannot turn away from
this tragedy in Ukraine.  I think the…21st century turns on how fiercely
we defend freedom in Ukraine, and that Putin will only stop when we stop
him.”   
  
What — what’s the White House’s response to this suggestion from the
Senator that the U.S. needs to start having a conversation about maybe
sending troops to Ukraine?  And does the President agree that Putin will
stop when we, the U.S. — only when we, the U.S., stop him?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, what I would say is, one, Senator Coons is a close
friend of the President’s and the administration, and we just
respectfully disagree with his proposal.   
  
The President continues to — has no plans to send troops to fight a war
with Russia.  He doesn’t think that’s in our national security
interests, in the interest of the American people.   
  
And so, what our focus has been on has been obviously providing this
historic amount of security assistance — military assistance, weapons to
the Ukrainians — that has helped them effectively fight this war and
economic assistance as well.  This is also strengthening their hand at
the negotiating table, even while we are putting in place a historic
package of economic sanctions that, as I noted earlier, even the head of
the Russian Central Bank is noting the im- — the devastating impact of
these sanctions on the Russian economy.   
  
So, that has been our strategic focus.  Of course, we support the
Ukrainians in every way possible.  But the President is not going to
fight a war with Russia.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    The President has done or will do a lot of travel in recent days to
places where —   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — so-called House “frontliners” are running for reelection.  And I
wanted to know if you could talk about how much political considerations
are weighed or taken into consideration when the White House decides
where to send the President.  And also, if — what kind of an impact do
you think, if any, will his discussion and promotion of things like the
Infrastructure Law will have on voters this fall?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I’m always careful about what I get into about
politics from here.  I’ve learned my lesson.  But what I will say is
that the President is proud to go out in the country — in blue states,
red states, purple states — to talk about his agenda, both what he has
achieved, including the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law that is rebuilding
roads, rails, and bridges, and — and in replacing lead pipes around the
country, expanding broadband access across the country in communities,
no matter what your political party is.   
  
And he’s also proud to go out and talk about his economic agenda that
he’s still fighting to get passed, which includes care, healthcare,
eldercare, and reducing costs.   
  
And his view is that for anyone out there, when they’re out there —
senators or members of Congress who are going to be talking to their
communities — that standing up for his agenda and standing up for this
agenda that will make the American people’s lives better is a winning
argument.   
  
So, I would say: I wouldn’t — I’m not going to overly note the political
sway of districts or states, but he’s always said he wants to be the
President for all people, govern for all people, and that means talking
about his agenda in red, blue, and purple states.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Jen, going back to coronavirus, some of us recently here and around
the country have been taking home tests to diagnose ourselves.  And when
those come up positive, those aren’t always reported to public health. 
And sometimes they can’t be; sometimes they won’t even accept that.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Mm-hmm.  
  
Q    Do you believe that we have an accurate sense of the spread of the
coronavirus right now?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think what’s important to remember is that, one, CD-
— what — how CDC continues to track COVID cases that are reported, they
do it really through hospitalizations and deaths.  And those numbers
around severe disease come directly from hospitals and states.  And what
we’re seeing through those is that we’re at the lowest level of
hospitalization since the start of the pandemic; I believe we’re still
at that point in time.  
  
So, we certainly encourage people to share their test results and
contact their doctor, because they may be eligible for Paxlovid or any
other therapeutics.   
  
But, you know, beyond that, as I think I would note, when we put out the
President’s 100-page plan, we noted that our focus was really on
hospitalizations, deaths, and severe cases, even as we’re encouraging
people to report testing for contact tracing and other purposes when
they test positive.  
  
Q    On Title 42, there is a bipartisan group of senators — including
Sinema, Manchin; some who are at risk, including Senator Kelly — who say
— who are proposing the idea of letting the Surgeon General certify when
the public health emergency has ended.  Is that something the President
would consider?  And then, why or why not?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, the C- — Congress gave the CDC the authority.  So —  
  
Q    But this would be a change in that, and I’m wondering if you’re
open to that idea.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I don’t have any prediction of that at this point. 
The CDC is the public health authority for the country, so I don’t — I
don’t have any more predictions of that.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Japanese Prime Minister Kishida just announced Japan taking in a
group of refugees, which is really a big deal for Japan.  And the
Foreign Minister, Hayashi, flew back a group of refugees from Poland to
Japan.  Is the administration aware of that?   
  
And then also, with the trip to Japan next month, any update on whether
an interview with the President is in the offing?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Oh, it’s an interview pitch.  Okay.  (Laughter.)  I said,
“Oh, an interview with whom?”  I like your style.  
  
We certainly welcome and applaud the actions of the — of Japan and the
Japanese leadership, and are grateful to their steps in taking in
refugees and their humanitarian support through this conflict.  And
they’re an important partner, as you know, and have been a part of
important meetings on the conflict in Ukraine in recent months,
including on the President’s last trip to Europe.    
  
I will certainly take under advisement your request.   
  
Go ahead, Eugene.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  There have been kind of a growing — growing rumblings
among economists about the “R” word — recession — that coming possibly
—   
  
MS. PSAKI:  The “R” word.  
  
Q    The “R” word.    
  
MS. PSAKI:   I was like, “Where are we going with this?”   
  
Q    (Inaudible) you know, it’s a scary word for everybody.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yes.  
  
Q    And I’m — I guess I’m just curious how the administration is
viewing the possibility of that and what kind of conversations are
happening right now about a possible recession.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, we continue to believe — our economists, most
importantly — that the United States economy will deal with challenges
ahead from a position of strength because of the President’s economic
plan.   
  
It’s important to remember we created more jobs last year than any year
— other year in history.  We obviously have a very low unemployment rate
in the country, and we’ve seen wages go up in a number of areas.   
  
I would note that there was a Goldman Sachs — you may be referring to
this — the Goldman Sachs analysis.  And even in their analysis, they
said, quote, “We still do not see a recession as inevitable, however,
particularly since the \[Fed’s\] goal of cooling the economy while
avoiding a recession will be helped by post-COVID normalizations in
labor supply and durable goods prices.”  
  
So our view is we’re in a period of historic job growth, strong business
investments, strong consumer and business balance sheets, and
normalizing supply chains.  Those are all good signs for the economy,
but obviously, we will continue to monitor any — any concerns we have
about where things are headed.  
  
Q    And as the — if inflation continues to rise, what are the concerns
about that (inaudible)?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, the Federal Reserve continues to project that it will
moderate by the end of the year.  And they — obviously, we support their
steps they’ve announced to recalibrate, and we’ve already seen some of
those actions taken. But, really, the — it’s under their purview, so we
would point to their projections.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    So just a follow-up on Title 42.  The issue that Democratic
senators have brought up is that there isn’t a detailed plan, they
think, to deal with the expected rise in migrants at the border.  So
does the White House feel confident that the administration has the
necessary resources and operational plan in place to process and house
and transport migrants?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would point you to the fact that the Department of
Homeland Security put out a plan that they briefed members on when we
announced the timeline — or the implementation period — an extended
period that wasn’t immediate — at the time.  That includes surging
resources and making sure we had the type of resources available to meet
any needs.    
  
So, they did put out a preparedness plan at the time, but we’re going to
have continuing conversations, and we certainly welcome any engagement
to do that.  Our issue is more the hooking it with COVID funding because
of the devastating impact that would have on communities across the
country.  
  
Q    All right.  And just another question on the Times op-ed that
Senator Warren wrote today, saying that Democrats need to deliver on
more of their agenda in order to keep the majorities in Congress.  Do
you agree with that premise?    
  
And at this point, I know you named a few of the legislative priorities
already in the briefing, but is — are there a top three priorities that
the White House feels they can actually get done before the midterms?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We love all of our children in the legislature around
here.   
  
What I will say is that, you know, we’ve talked a bit about steps to
lower costs — which I know Senator Warren, of course, strongly supports
as well — for childcare, for healthcare, for eldercare, for prescription
drugs; these are no-brainers for most people in the country.  And also
making the tax system more fair.  We think those are all issues that
Democrats, but also a lot of people around the country, would love for
us to do more on and love to talk about more.   
  
We, of course, as I’ve stated a couple times in this briefing, want to
get COVID funding because we think it’s essential so that we can
continue a lot of the programs that have had such a huge impact on
people’s lives, including for the uninsured; including in making sure we
have boosters for — fourth boosters for every American who wants them,
whenever people are eligible; including being able to buy enough
Evusheld and for — and treatments for the immunocompromised.  That’s
hugely important to us.   
  
And then, of course, we — we want to get the Innovation Act passed
because we believe that that’s something that should have bipartisan
support.  And we want to make sure we have manufacturing here in the
United States, something that can make us stronger over the long
term.   
  
There are many other things, but I would say those are a couple of the
things that we will continue to fight to move forward on.  
  
Q    So you agree with the premise that the administration and Democrats
in Congress needs to get more done in order to have a shot at the
majority?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I would say I’m not going to make political predictions from
here.   
  
What I will say, though, is that everybody looks at a choice and what
each party is fighting for, is advocating for, has gotten accomplished,
but also what their vision is for the future.  And we’re proud of our
vision.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Jen, to go back to the virtual COVID Summit —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — you’ve mentioned, again, the need for Congress to improve COVID
funding.  Does the White House see that date, May 12th, for the summit
as a deadline for Congress to get that funding approved?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We don’t, but we just see it as a reminder of how important
it is that — to continue to take steps to be the provider, the va- — the
arsenal of vaccines to the world, something we have already done since
the — since the last summit.  
  
While the world has made significant progress in scaling up vaccination
efforts, and COVI- — and COVAX has now provided almost 1.2 billion
vaccines to more — COVAX, yes — to more than 140 countries, with 80 per-
— 88 percent of those contributions going to low- and middle-income
countries, we’re not at the global vaccination rate that we need to be
or that health experts project we want to be at.  Right?  It’s a 70
percent vaccination target.  That’s the global target set by the World
Health Organization.  
  
And while vaccination rates are rising, only approximately 20 percent of
countries are fully vaccinated — at least seven- — at least 70 percent
of their population.   
  
But this is an opportunity.  Obviously, we’re going to continue to fight
for more funding here.  But we will — to continue to press other
countries to do more to help the world make progress as well.  
  
Q    And along those lines, you know, we’ve heard USAID chief, Samantha
Powers, say earlier this month that if there isn’t that global COVID
funding — if Congress puts something together without it — that the U.S.
would then turn its back on the countries that need urgent help to boost
vaccination rates.  Will it be difficult for the U.S. to take a lead at
a summit like that if that funding has not come through?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, we are far and away the leader in the world.  That
will not change between now and the summit, regardless of funding.  
  
However, we want to continue to be, and continue to be providing not
just vaccine doses, but also the know-how and equipment and supplies
that countries around the world need.   
  
Q    Jen, more mass shootings this past weekend.  More mass shootings;
two teenage boys dead, dozens injured.  What does the President believe
is causing such a callous disregard for human life in this country?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, let me first say — and thank you for the question —
these shootings are horrific and must stop.  Our prayers are with the
survivors, those who are lost, and their families.   
  
I can’t attribute — obviously, these — this just happened over the
weekend — the reasoning.  But what I can tell you is that it’s a
reminder of the need to take more steps to stop gun crime, something the
President has strongly supported and advocated for since — for decades
in public office: cracking down on gun traffickers, putting more cops on
the beat, investing in community anti-crime programs, and, of course,
also confirming a very qualified individual, Steve Dettelbach, to lead
the ATF.  
  
Q    But aside from laws, you know, what — does the President have in
mind, if anything, a plan to improve, to get people to respect life
more, to respect other human beings, laws aside?  You can’t legislate
morality and values — right? — human life.  Does he have — does he ever
talk about that openly to you or anyone else?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think every time that you’ve seen the President talk
about shootings, the impact on families, on human beings, on loved ones,
on communities, he talks about that human impact.    
  
And — but it also is true that in order to reduce and change the
direction of crime and gun crime, which is the majority of crime, we
need to change — we need to have more laws in place.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you.  Texas Governor Abbott said that, quote, “financial
pain” was necessary to get officials to take action on illegal
immigration.  Is there any sense that those border inspections did cause
financial pain, that there was any disruption in the supply chain or
anything like that, that you all are tracking?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, while I don’t have an extended summary — summary
analysis, what I do know is that you don’t have to look farther than the
comments made by business leaders, trade organizations — of all
political stripes and parties — and their opposition to the unnecessary
additional steps that the governor was implementing.   
  
And there’s $1 million in trade crossing over the U.S.-Mexico border
every minute.  So there’s no question that putting these unnecessary
inspections in place — which resulted, at the time, in the drop in
commercial traffic of up to 60 to 70 percent in some ports — was having
a huge impact on the local community, on businesses.  And that’s why so
many people were so outspoken about it.  
  
Q    And just quickly —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — do you have an update on the plan for Ukrainian refugees?  Will
it be a parole program like you have for Afghans, or any (inaudible)?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah, I certainly understand the question.  I don’t have any
update in this moment.  That’s exactly the type of program, but there
are a lot of considerations, so hopefully we’ll have more soon.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, Jen.  Does President Biden have confidence in Senator
Dianne Feinstein?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Does he have con- —  
  
Q    Confidence in Senator Dianne Feinstein.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yes, he’s — she’s a longtime friend, a proud public servant,
and someone he has long enjoyed serving with and working with.  
  
Q    And after that report came out last week questioning her health,
did the President reach out to her at all?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have any updates on the President’s conversations.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Thanks, everyone.  
  
4:54 P.M. EDT
