---
date: '2022-04-25'
modified_time: 2022-04-26 14:09:09-04:00
published_time: 2022-04-25 19:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/04/25/background-press-call-by-senior-administration-officials-on-new-actions-to-increase-access-to-covid-19-treatments-and-boost-patient-and-provider-awareness/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Background Press Call by Senior Administration Officials on New Actions to\
  \ Increase Access to COVID-\u206019 Treatments and Boost Patient and Provider\_\
  Awareness"
---
 
Via Teleconference

6:06 P.M. EDT

MR. MUNOZ:  Hi, everybody.  Thank you for joining tonight our press call
on the Biden administration’s efforts to increase access to COVID-19
treatments and boost patient and provider awareness.

You all should have received a embargoed factsheet for 5:00 a.m.
tomorrow in your inbox.  If not, please email me. 

This call will be embargoed until 5:00 a.m. as well, and attributable to
senior administration officials.

For your awareness, on the line we’ll have brief remarks from \[senior
administration official\].  We have \[senior administration official\]
and \[senior administration official\].

And with that, I will kick it to \[senior administration official\].

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Wonderful.  Thanks, Kevin.  Can you
hear me?  Thank you for joining us.

I want to provide an overview of new actions to increase access to
COVID-19 treatments and boost patient and provider awareness.

First, let me step back.  Over the past 15 months, the administration
had pulled levers across the federal government and deployed resources
Congress provided to expedite the development, production, and
procurement of COVID-19 treatment. As a result, the U.S. now has several
treatments available that can help keep people out of the hospital and
save lives.

Pfizer’s oral antiviral pill, Paxlovid, is one of the most effective
available treatments and has been shown to reduce the risk of
hospitalization or death by about 90 percent.  Although Paxlovid was
originally in short supply after the Food and Drug Administration
authorized it, the administration has worked with Pfizer to accelerate
the delivery of these pills, which are now widely available.

The President’s National COVID-19 Preparedness Plan lays out a roadmap
for ensuring that these pills, along with other treatments, are
available for any American that needs one. 

Since December 2021, the administration has distributed COVID-19 oral
antivirals directly to states, Tribes, territories, and community health
centers for free.  States and territories play an important role in
distributing these treatments to healthcare providers, pharmacies, and
other locations.

In March, as supply began to ramp up, the President announced the Test
to Treat initiative to help make it easier for people at high risk of
severe disease to quickly access oral antiviral treatments.  While any
doctor can prescribe treatment, the Test to Treat initiative creates
additional locations where people can get a COVID-19 test, a visit with
a medical provider, and, if needed, free oral antiviral pills — all in
one visit.

To date, the administration has worked with pharmacies, long-term care
facilities, community health centers, and other healthcare settings to
establish more than 2,200 Test to Treat sites around the country,
including sites specifically for military families and veterans.  As a
result, usage of oral antivirals has more than doubled over the last
several weeks.

But more is needed to make these treatments even easier to access and
make sure healthcare providers and patients know about their safety,
efficacy, and availability.

And tomorrow, the administration is announcing new actions to do just
that.  These actions will help strengthen and further build the
infrastructure to ensure that lifesaving treatments for COVID-19 are
quickly distributed around the country, widely available, and easy to
access.  At the same time, ensuring that this remains the case and
securing more and even better treatments will require additional funding
from Congress.

Now, let me walk through the actions that we are gathered here to talk
about.

First, we’re going to nearly double the number of places oral antivirals
are available in the coming weeks.  Now that we have ample supply of
these treatments, we can make it easier for pharmacies to order from the
federal government.

Starting this week, the administration will allow all pharmacy partners
in the federal antiviral pharmacy program representing tens of thousands
of pharmacy locations nationwide to order free antiviral treatments
directly from the federal government.  The administration expects that
oral antivirals will soon be available in more than 30,000 locations.

In the coming weeks, the Department of Health and Human Services will
work with pharmacy partners to increase the availability even further,
up to 40,000 sites.

We are also going to launch a new effort to stand up federally supported
Test to Treat sites.  Building on the current footprint of 2,200 Test to
Treat sites and pharmacies and other clinical settings, the federal
government will work with states and jurisdictions to stand up
additional Test to Treat locations with federal support.  These sites
will co-locate testing, an assessment from a medical provider, and oral
antiviral treatments in one convenient stop, launching in partnership
with state, Tribal, and territorial governments, and with support and
coordination from HHS and FEMA.

These sites will be targeted to meet demand and increase equitable
access to lifesaving COVID-19 treatments and will function in direct
collaboration with state and local health agencies.

We also are going to support medical providers with more guidance and
tools to understand and prescribe treatment.  Keeping healthcare
providers informed is critical in the effective prescription of COVID-19
treatments, including their benefits, contraindications, drug-to-drug
interactions, and other side effects, so that doctors are in a position
to quickly prescribe one of these treatments where appropriate.

The administration has been working for months with healthcare providers
around the country to inform them about new treatments with weekly
webinars with state and territorial health officials, healthcare and
medical organizations, as well biweekly clinical webinars with
healthcare providers, including those who specialize in treating
high-risk patients.

The administration will continue actively engaging the clinical
community to broaden awareness and understanding of these treatments and
to make sure that healthcare providers are counseling their patients
about these effective treatments, prescribing them when appropriate, and
helping patients identify where their prescription can be filled.

We are also going to communicate to the American people that safe,
effective treatments are widely available.  Now that the administration
has made treatments widely available and there are tens of thousands of
sites around the country where they can be dispensed, the administration
will ramp up its public awareness and education efforts on COVID-19
treatments. 

The administration’s efforts will focus on making sure people know that
COVID-19 oral antiviral treatments must be taken within the first five
days of symptom onset and their role in reducing the risk of severe
disease and death from COVID-19. 

These efforts build on steps the administration has taken in recent
weeks to help people access treatment. 

MR. MUNOZ:  Thank you, \[senior administration official\].  With that,
we have time for a few questions.  Let’s go to Hannah Recht at Kaiser
News. 

Q    Hi, can you hear me?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yes.

MR. MUNOZ:  Yes.

Q    Great.  Thank you so much for taking my call.  If we could take a
step back for a second on the therapeutics program in general.  You
know, you said earlier that usage of oral antivirals has more than
doubled in the last several weeks.  That is really the only type of
detail that we’ve been provided — these sort of broad strokes of the
utilization is low, now it’s doubling.  We really don’t have any actual
data on how they’re being distributed and how they’re being utilized in
contrast to the vaccine programs.  We have really robust data there. 
But when it comes to the therapeutics, we have none at all, and requests
for that data from HHS have been declined. 

Can you talk about why the administration is refusing to share actual
numbers on where these therapeutics have been distributed, where they’ve
been utilized, and any real data on that front?  I think it’s really
important for the American people to actually have more specific insight
into this program.

MR. MUNOZ:  \[Senior administration official\], do you want to provide
those numbers and give a little bit of context here? Thanks, Hannah.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, definitely. Definitely agree it’s
important to understand usage trends.  As we’ve mentioned, Hannah, we
have seen usage increase.  I think, overall, we are — have had more than
500,000 courses of antivirals used — reported as used so far.  I think
we are always working with our partners that are distributing and
administering these treatments to improve and — improve data collection
and make sure that we’re collecting as much as possible. 

I think, in recent weeks — you know, I think about a month ago we were
at around 22,000 courses reported as used in a week.  And I think this
past week we were over 55,000.  So, we’ve seen it grow by two and a half
times.

I think — you know, again, we want to continue to make sure we’re
getting the best data collection as possible.  But I think, more
importantly, we don’t really track success necessarily by usage.  I
think we are really focused on making sure that everybody understands
that treatments are — safe, effective treatments are available widely,
and that providers and prescribers and everybody understands the
parameters around them, understands the eligibility criteria, and can
work with their patients to help them get them as quickly as possible.

Thanks. 

MR. MUNOZ:  All right.  Next question, Nancy Cordes at CBS.

Q    Hey, thank you so much.  Two questions.  So you said that the Test
to Treat program is going to expand from 2,200 sites now.  How many more
sites do you envision, and how quickly?  And then, also, are you
expanding the range of adults who are going to be eligible to get
Paxlovid, or is it still just people who have a preexisting condition?

MR. MUNOZ:  \[Senior administration official\], do you want to take the
first one?  And then, \[senior administration official\], do you want to
take the second question?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yes.  So I think, importantly, we will
let demand be our guide here.  We have set up 2,200 Test to Treat sites
so far, as you mentioned.

I think we’re going to be working really closely with these new
federally supported sites to work directly with state, territorial, and
jurisdictional leadership to kind of identify the places that need more
support, identify what kinds of support could be available, how many
sites they might need. 

And so, I think it remains to be seen, but the most important thing is
that we are committed to work with our jurisdictional partners to add
additional capacity, as well as, as we mentioned at the top, really
opening widely the distribution channel to pharmacies right now.  I
think we are greatly expanding that, that we expect an additional 10,000
sites to come online right away, and we’ll keep pushing to add even more
there.  
  
So, overall, we’re trying to dramatically increase the footprint of the
ways treatments are available, including Test to Treat, which has been
one part of it, as you know.  
  
\[Senior administration official\]?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, absolutely.  And thanks for the
question.  I think, you know, for the second part of your question about
whether or not we’re going to expand eligibility, I think it’s really
important to clarify that the eligibility in that emergency use
authorization, that comes from FDA, in the EUA that they issued.   
  
And so that’s pretty clear in terms of who’s eligible, specifically for
the treatment of mild to moderate COVID in adults or kids older than the
age of 12 who have a positive COVID test, and then they have to be at
high risk for progression to severe COVID-19.   
  
And I think what’s important — there’s a full range of conditions. 
We’ve had some estimates that up to almost 60 percent of adults who get
COVID-19 may be eligible.  This includes things like diabetes, like
cardiovascular disease, obesity.  So there’s a full range of conditions
that are correlated to, you know, a higher risk of progression of severe
COVID-19.   
  
What’s important to note, though, is that, you know, ostensibly this may
feel like an expansion to some folks because a lot of providers early
on, in that scarcity mindset when there were fewer — you know, fewer
courses available across the country, were really reserving this for
only the folks who they thought would be the sickest of the sick.  And
that’s why the provider education component, the provider engagement
component is so critical of this work.   
  
It’s making sure that all over the country, in every community,
providers know that we’ve got Paxlovid available for their patients, all
of whom — any of whom are at risk — or at high risk for progression of
severe COVID-19.  We really want them to know that full range of the
existing eligibility and make sure that they’re connecting patients to
these lifesaving therapeutics.  So, not an expansion of the eligibility
but, really, fully taking advantage of who this is meant to benefit.  
  
MR. MUNOZ:  Thank you both.  Let’s go to Peter Sullivan at The Hill.

Q    Hi, thanks.  Two quick ones.  One, there’s also been similar
concerns about awareness and availability for Evusheld for
immunocompromised people.  Are you going to take any steps — similar
steps around that?  
  
And, two, to talk about the funding in Congress: Do you have an update
on if you don’t get any more money from Congress, when is your supply of
Paxlovid going to run out or have to be cut back?

MR. MUNOZ:  Let’s go to \[senior administration official\] and \[senior
administration official\] for the first question.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Certainly.  And so, Evusheld, you know,
very similarly there was more scarcity earlier on.  I think Evusheld is
pretty broadly available at this point.  And so there’s a similar thrust
that we — that we have to get more and more folks connected.   
  
We’ve been meeting regularly with provider organizations, with patient
organizations.  It’s a narrower group of individuals who are eligible
for Evusheld, so it’s specifically for immunocompromised individuals. 
And so it creates an opportunity through our deep engagement with
providers.  
  
There’s kind of a select group of doctors who disproportionately take
care of these patients — these patients who are — who are
immunocompromised.  And so, really working closely with them to make
sure that they know that Evusheld is available, that they know that they
can and should be prescribing it, and they have specific details and
updates on the prescribing pattern.  So we continue to do that deep
engagement.   
  
But in terms of supply of Evusheld, I think we’re in a pretty good spot
with the supply presently.  But again, you know, that’s not going to
last us forever.  And so it’s part of why, you know, we did incorporate
our future needs for Evusheld into our request of Congress.   
  
And I’ll pass it to \[senior administration official\] for any additions
there.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, I would just add, on that point
on the Evusheld, that we did purchase 1.7 million courses of this
treatment.  But we know that without further funding from Congress, we
will not be able to purchase more.  And we know that as adoption
increases and usage increases here, it’s something that is very
important.   
  
As you know, Evusheld is a really nice complement to vaccination and
boosting for those that may not generate a strong immune response to
vaccines.  And so it’s a really important tool in our toolkit here, and
so we do need to make sure that we get additional funding from Congress
to make sure that we can continue to have our supply available there.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  And — it’s \[senior administration
official\] — on the second — was it the second question or the first
one?  The second question.    
  
Regarding funding, you know, just to echo what \[senior administration
official\] just said, you know, we currently have the funds to buy — or
we’re in the process of buying 20 million pills of Paxlovid.  You know,
we have sufficient funding to secure these treatments.  And what I think
we’re really worried about going forward are future treatments.  And so
we need funding from Congress to secure the essential needs for
treatments going forwards.

MR. MUNOZ:  All right.  Next question.  Let’s go to Cheyenne Haslett at
ABC News.

Q    Thank you.  Hi.  So, we’re talking about how many courses are going
out each week.  How many courses of Paxlovid are available each week to
the pharmacies?  And what’s that going to be increasing to?  Just for
sort of, like, some context on how many courses that is — that are going
out to people.

And then, on Test to Treat, putting this pill in more pharmacies, that
doesn’t necessarily mean that more pharmacies will have the people that
are able to prescribe them, right? That whole issue of Test to Treat and
it not being able to happen in every single pharmacy; it’s more like CVS
MinuteClinic.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, Cheyenne, I can chime in on this
one.

So, on the first question about how many courses of Paxlovid are
available to pharmacies, my understanding is — and we can follow up with
more details of — when I check.  But my understanding is we’re — we’ll
be making — HCORE will be making a tranche of the 100,000 courses
available through the pharmacy channel at first and — to the specific
pharmacy channel at first, and we’ll continue to monitor demand and
uptake there and, you know, adjust accordingly. 

Going forward, as we mentioned, we’re not really in a supply-constrained
posture right now.

On number two, yes, the expansion of sites — the pharmacies that will be
dispensing — it is not the case that all of those pharmacies are also
Test to Treat sites because, as you mentioned, under the scope of the
emergency use authorization, they must be prescribed by a licensed
provider.  That’s why it’s so important that we continue to engage with
physicians and doctors and others that can prescribe these treatments,
as well as working with states and jurisdictions to stand up additional
sort of one-stop-shop Test to Treat sites.

We know that a lot of states have been doing this, and we’re really
encouraged by that.  I think we want to redouble our efforts and make
sure that they have all the federal supports available so that they can
stand up additional sites that would be sort of the more traditional
one-stop shopping that we think of as Test to Treat.

\[Senior administration official\]?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, this is \[senior administration
official\].  So, just to add on to that, one important dynamic here:
Remember that Test to Treat — the whole purpose of that initiative is to
really compress that all the steps that need to be taken. 

For Paxlovid specifically, you’ve got about six steps that have to be
completed in five days’ time.  You have to, you know, develop COVID
symptoms, you have to subsequently get a test for COVID-19, get the
result of that test, find and go to see a provider, get a prescription,
and then fill that prescription.  That’s six steps, five days.

What Test to Treat allows us to do is really compress that into a
shorter amount of time.  And, you know, from — from an equity
standpoint, that’s really critical because we know that there are 25
percent of Americans who don’t have a usual source of care, so being
able to go to a space that eliminates that step of finding that
provider, that becomes so important.

But we don’t ignore the fact that there are 75 percent of folks who do
have a usual source of care.  And we want to encourage them to reach out
to their providers — you know, especially if they’re able to get in and
see them quickly — to see their provider.  That’s going to help them
navigate some of the nuances of what is a new medication for them and
make sure that they have that opportunity to have those conversations
and subsequently get that prescription filled at one of the
participating pharmacies.

So, the two work in concert.  They’re a good complement, having Test to
Treat sites and having broad availability across pharmacies.  And it
helps us cover much more ground.  And that’s a large part of what equity
is about.  It’s about making sure there’s broad access, broad
availability.  And I think that’s what we’re aiming to expand even more
so through these steps today.

MR. MUNOZ:  All right.  We have time for two more questions.  Let’s go
to David Lim at Politico.

Q    Hey.  Thanks for taking my question.  I wanted to loop back around
to provider education for the indicated population of Paxlovid again.  I
know the EUA is for people older than 12, at high risk of progressing to
severe COVID-19. 

There’s a lot of anecdotal evidence that many providers are mainly
prescribing to older adults.  And like Hannah said, there’s kind of a
lack of hard data on this. 

Should more Americans, especially those seeking treatment at pharmacy
clinics they don’t have a medical history with, be receiving these
antivirals?  Is it the administration’s perspective that doctors aren’t
diagnosing — or, excuse me, aren’t prescribing the drug to as many
people as should be receiving it?

MR. MUNOZ:  \[Senior administration official\], \[senior administration
official\] do you guys want to go?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, I can — I can start here.  I
think that, you know, that it’s pretty clear from the uptake of Paxlovid
that — and the rate of hospitalizations and deaths over the months that
Paxlovid has been available that there are still some folks who could
have benefited from these medications. 

So, we certainly know that there — there’s more room to go.  We can save
more lives by getting this medication to more people. 

Always, you know, we want to make sure that we’re connecting people in a
way that serves them the best.  And I think for a large percentage of
folks, that’s going to be going through their own provider, someone
who’s familiar with their health history, who’s familiar with their
medications, and make sure that they can navigate appropriately. 

For other folks who don’t have that usual source of care, I think we
also have the opportunity to connect them in a way that’s safe and
effective with an appropriate prescriber.  And so, I think that when you
put those together — yes, we do think that there are additional folks. 

You mentioned the anecdote of folks — early on, kind of limiting this to
the folks who are older and potentially at risk of getting sicker.  And
we believe that some providers were making that decision, because we’ve
had experience with pandemic before of operating in a scarcity mindset,
of thinking we’ve got this really limited resource so I can only give it
to my patients who are the absolute sickest. 

And one thing that we’ve worked hard to do in recent weeks and even more
so through these steps is to really drive home that we’ve got enough
Paxlovid for patients who meet the criteria under the EUA.  And that’s
the full range of those patients. 

Again, we can save more lives if we extract the full benefits of who
this medication is meant to benefit — or meant to help prevent, you
know, death.  And so that’s the idea here.  It’s really, you know,
getting as much mileage out of this as we can and, you know, do so as
safely as we can at the same time. 

But, \[senior administration official\], anything to add?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  No, I think you covered it.  The only
thing I would sort of say is that, you know, the nuances involved in
prescribing antiviral treatments is obviously a lot different than
vaccines — right? — where we know there’s a large, massive group of
people for whom vaccines will maximally benefit, and you can sort of
target all of your efforts and outreach efforts and engagement efforts
accordingly. 

I think we need to be and have been more nuanced with this one, and
that’s why provider education can become so important. 

But I think as \[senior administration official\] mentioned, the
opportunity we have now by having significantly more supply cannot be
understated.  And so, we do want to make sure that providers are no
longer proceeding from the assumption that we don’t have enough, because
we do.  And so we want to make sure that they can make it available to
all the patients that would benefit. 

We know that there are drug-to-drug interactions and various
contraindications that they work through, but we’re hopeful that part of
our efforts can start to drive more awareness that this can benefit a
lot of people.

Q    And one quick follow-up.  Can you quantify how big of an issue
inappropriate prescribing of antibiotics and steroids has been?  I know
that the CDC put out that advisory.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I’m not in a position to comment on
that, but we can look into it.

MR. MUNOZ:  All right, next question.  Let’s go to Josh Wingrove.

Q    Hi there.  Thank you for doing this.  And I have a question for
\[senior administration official\].  Congratulations on your new post. 
This one, I guess, relates to your new and former post about that
Paxlovid order. 

You said earlier on the call that it is a committed order of 20 million
courses, but you also indicated that there is enough money now that you
(inaudible) that.  There’s been some reporting to the contrary — that
the new funding request is needed in order to finalize that order.  In
particular, the White House has told Congress, quote, “HHS plans to” —
sorry — “plans to use $5 billion to secure additional courses of
antivirals from Pfizer.” 

Are you referring there to expanding the order beyond the 20 million? 
Or do you need the new money to finish the order of the 20 million?  And
if it’s the latter, are we correct in understanding that if Congress
doesn’t give you any more money, that that 20 million may not come in
full?  Thank you very much. 

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Hi.  Thank you.  We have sufficient
funding to secure the treatments we have committed to purchase to date.

MODERATOR:  All right.  Well, thanks —

Q    So what is the $5 billion referring to?  When it says HHS plans to
use $5 billion to secure additional courses of antivirals, are you
talking about a new order or are you talking about finishing off the one
you already have?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  We’re talking about the 20 million that
we’ve already committed to purchase. 

MODERATOR:  Thank you, everybody, for joining.  As a reminder, all of
this is embargoed until 5:00 a.m. tomorrow and attributable to senior
administration officials.

Thanks for joining us on a Monday night.  Have a good night.

6:32 P.M. EDT
