---
date: '2022-04-14'
modified_time: 2022-04-14 16:26:49-04:00
published_time: 2022-04-14 16:26:48-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/04/14/press-gaggle-by-principal-deputy-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-7/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Karine\_Jean-Pierre"
---
 
Aboard Air Force One  
En Route Greensboro, North Carolina

12:43 P.M. EDT

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Good morning.  As you all know, in Greensboro to- —
we’re headed to Greensboro today.  The President will visit the Harold
L. Martin Sr. Engineering Research & Innovation Complex at North
Carolina Agriculture and Technical State University to talk about the
Bipartisan Innovation Act and his economic plan.  N.C. A&T is the
largest HBCU in the country, with the highest number of African American
graduates in engineering of any university nationwide.

The Biden-Harris administration provided over $5 billion in funding to
HBCUs through the American Rescue Plan and other sources last year.  And
we are working to increase Pell Grants to support students attending
two-year and four-year colleges.

After the Martin Complex, the President will deliver remarks
highlighting provisions of the Bipartisan Innovation Act, key to
retaining and strengthening our innovation and manufacturing capacity,
as well as investing in STEM education and equity.

Greensboro is an example of a regional manufacturer — manufacturing
ecosystem that the President’s agenda seeks to build across America. 
The Bipartisan Innovation Act would offer the sustained funding places
like Greensboro need to create a globally competitive manufacturing
industry that expands the middle class.

In Greensboro, the President will be joined by the EPA Administrator
Michael Regan; members of his Board of Advisors on HBCUs; and several
elected officials, including Governor Roy Cooper, Congresswoman Kathy
Manning, Mayor of Greensboro Nancy Vaughan, and Chair of the Guilford
County Board of Commissioners Skip Als- — Al- — Alston. 

With that, Darlene.

Q    Thank you.  Welcome back. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thank you.  (Inaudible.)

Q    Now that the President has said that what is happening in Ukraine
is a genocide, shouldn’t the U.S. now step up and try to end what’s
happening there more forcefully?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well —

Q    Is there an obligation?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, let me just say that — that right now, we are
actively working to assist national and international efforts to
(inaudible) document and investigate credible reports of atrocities,
analyze the evidence, and identify any Russians responsible for the
atrocities and war crimes that have been committed in Ukraine so they
can be held accountable.

As part of that work, the U.S. is supporting the efforts of the war
crimes unit under the Office of the Ukrainian Prosecutor General and a
team of international prosecutors and war crimes experts who are in the
region working with them.  We are also supporting Ukraine’s authorities
and civil society organizations who are working on the ground to
document atrocity crimes for prosecution.  And we helped establish
investigations through the U.N. Human Rights Council <s>on</s> \[and\]
the OSCE with — with release a — which released a report chronicling
serious human rights violations today. 

So that’s the process that we’re working through as we talk about — as
we talk about genocide and war crimes. 

Q    And is there any reaction at this point from the White House to
Florida Governor DeSantis signing the 15-week abortion ban earlier
today?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have any comments on that.  Per what we
normally say about what we’re seeing nowadays when it comes to abortion,
you know, we believe in codifying — the President believes in codifying
Roe v. Wa- — Wade.  We do know that women’s constitutional rights are
under attack all across the country. 

That’s why the Biden-Harris administration is doing everything we can in
response to these attacks on women’s rights.  And he’ll continue to
stand with women and support their right to make their own healthcare
decisions — a constitutional right that Roe v. Wade reaffirmed nearly
five — five decades ago. 

And the President, again, calls on Congress to act and send a bill to
his desk to shut down these radical steps being taken.

Q    Another quick question on the trucking situation at the border in
Texas.  Does the White House understand the national security concerns
that Governor Abbott is claiming is the reason that he’s ordered these
inspections in the first place?  And is — what is the White House doing
or trying to do to reverse what’s happening down there?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, a couple of things.  People are asking, “Isn’t
this like the tougher enforcement — border enforcement?”  No, these
truck inspections hurt Texas and U.S. trade and commerce, and will have
no effect on asylum seekers.  
  
Texas DPS — DPS work is essential for truck safety, but our border is
safer when state and federal government work together.  
  
President Biden’s Bipartisan Infrastructure Law is already making
historic investments to improve security at our borders.   
  
CBP is used to — is used to — to working collaboratively with Texas DPS
and does so routinely.  CBP officers are very good at their jobs.  Texas
DPS does not need to replace CBP at the southern border, and attempting
to do so jeopardizes public safety and America’s economic security.  
  
CBP has conducted a record number of drug seizu- — seizes and more than
900,000 pounds of narcotics seized since FY 2021, and their Office of
Field Operations seizing over 730,000 pounds of drugs at ports of
entry.   
  
In fiscal year 2020 \[sic\] through — 2022 through the end of February,
CBP has already seized over 250,000 pounds of drugs due theirs — due to
their stringent inspection processes.  
  
What we’re doing: We have called on Governor Abbott to stop these
unnecessary and duplicat- — duplicative inspections that are choking a
key trade artery into our country.  Staff at Laredo Field Office
remained in contact with the trade communities and expanded operations
to surrounding ports of entry to assist with the diverted movement of
trade based on businesses’ resumption contingency plans.   
  
Surrounding ports of Progreso, Rio Grande, and Roma extended their hours
of operations to assist the port — the port and notify trade
stakeholders.   
  
The Port of Laredo extended their hours of operations at World Trade
Bridge to clear and process diverted traffic from Columbia Solidarity
Bridge.   
  
Staff at the El Paso Field Office notified stakeholders of extended
hours at the Santa Teresa port of entry to assist with congestion at
Ystella \[sic\] — Ysleta and remains in contact with trade community to
address concerns.  
  
In all instances, port personnel have stayed and worked after hours to
clear and process all commercial truck shipments at international
bridges because of the increased DPS safety inspections.  
  
Q    Karine —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Jake Sullivan, this morning, talked about an announcement in the
coming days on entities that are trying to evade Russia sanctions.  Is
there more you can share — what sectors we are looking at?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, I know he said that, but I don’t have anything
more to share or preview at this time.  
  
Q    Is there anything you can say on whether or not this was a
coordinated action with allies or just a U.S. announcement?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, as you know, we have — we have shown our
strength by coordinating with our allies and showed unity in that way as
we’ve talked about many sanctions that we have pushed forward in the
past couple of weeks.  
  
Q    And specifically on the — on the coming —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  On this, I just don’t have anything to preview.  
  
Q    Okay.  And then —  
  
Q    Do you have — go ahead.

Q    On the — to follow up what the President just said about making a
decision on sending officials: Who would it — who — on the discussions
of who you may be sending, is it going to be a Cabinet-level official? 
Or what are we looking at?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, as he also — I’m just going to repeat what he
said —

Q    Okay.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — is that we’re still — we’re still in discussion,
deciding this. 

As you know, obviously, we’re in contact with the Ukrainian government,
with Kyiv every — every day, pretty regularly. 

And so, I just don’t have anything to preview any further.

Q    And then one more, sorry.  If you have a reaction to Elon Musk’s
hostile attempt to take over Twitter.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, and I saw — I know that happened this morning. 
Look, this is an offer by a private investor, and we don’t have any
comment here.  The SEC is independent and would handle any review
processes if this moves forward. 

Q    Karine, do you have any more details about the Russian ship that
was apparently sunk by Ukrainian forces?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have anything to share from here.  I know the
Department of Defense usually gives updates pretty regularly.  I would
send you to them. 

Q    And following up on the sanctions question, Jen was asked about
secondary sanctions yesterday.  Can you give a sense of what secondary
sanctions are being considered — financial sanctions?  What else is in
the docket?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have anything to preview.  Let me just
reiterate: Our sanctions are unprecedented.  In no other circumstance
have we moved so swiftly in such a coordinated fashion to impose
devastating costs on any other country as we have done to Russia and —
done to Russia. 

The economy is forecast to contract as much as 15 percent of GDP in
2022.  The economic — economic collapse will wipe out the past 15 years
of economic gains in Russia.  According to the Institute of
International Finance, inflation in Russia is projected to spike about —
above 20 percent and the Russian government rating has been downgraded
to “junk” status by major credit rating agencies.  Close to 400
multinational companies have left Russia in a mass exodus by the private
sector, reversing 30 years of economic progress in a span of a few
weeks. 

And we continue to ratchet up the pressure on Putin’s oligarchs.  We are
working with our — with allies and partners to go — to go after corrupt
gains from some of the individuals closest to Putin.  No matter where
they are held around the world, Putin’s elites have already lost out on
their most prized possessions. 

As long as the — as President Putin continues this war, the United
States and our allies and partners are committed to ensuring the Russian
government feels and — compounding efforts of our current and future
economic actions. 

Q    Karine, the President was an hour late leaving today.  I wonder if
you could tell us anything about his activities before he left. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, the President had a series of morning meetings
that went long today.  I don’t have any more specifics to share. 

Q    Okay.  And you mentioned the work you’re doing to support war
crimes investigations in Ukraine.  Is there anything you can tell us
about the — are you sending on specific information now?  Can you tell
us anything about what that is — intercepts, satellite photos,
testimony?  And any sorts of examples that you could share?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I — we are actively working to assist national
inter- — national, international efforts to identify and hold any
Russians accountable for the atrocities and war crimes they have
committed in Ukraine.  And we are actively consulting with our allies
and partners how we can support a broad range of mechanisms moving
forward. 

Over the past few weeks, we’ve helped establish investigations through
the U.N. Human Rights Council and OSCE of possible violations by
Russia. 

As I mentioned earlier, the U.S. is supporting the work of the war
crimes unit under the Office of Ukrainian Prosecutor General, as I
mentioned, as well.

As the Attorney General said last week, Justice Department prosecutors
were in Europe this week to meet with European prosecutors to discuss
information-collection and -sharing efforts to hold Russia accountable. 

We also welcomed the investigation opened by the ICC Prosecutor, in
particular his focus on preserving evidence of possible — possible
atrocity crimes.  As evidence is gathered, prosecutors will determine
whether criminal prosecutions should be pursued. 

We will do our part to support accountability using every tool
available, including passing along the information we are able to gather
to help build very strong dossiers of evidence for war crimes
prosecutions where appropriate. 

It’s also important to remember that these mechanism will take time. 
We’re also working around the clock with allies and partners to flow
weapons into Ukraine to help Ukrainians defend themselves. 

Q    Karine, maybe one last question.  National Security Advisor Jake
Sullivan said this morning that the administration doesn’t intend to
give the frozen Russian assets back but wants to put them to better
use.  Does that mean that the administration intends to sell or
liquidate those assets to finance the reconstruction of Ukraine, for
example?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have more to say than what Jake Sullivan,
National Security Advisor, said this morning.  I don’t have anything
else to add. 

Q    Can I ask one more on the trip today?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    Obviously, the President will focus, in his speech, on the
Bipartisan Innovation Act.  And we’re getting pretty close to the
midterms here.  And while this is a bipartisan process and, you know,
the committee — the conference committee is going to, you know, do what
it can, are you concerned at all that this is, like, butting up too
closely to the midterms and Republicans will sort of, like, not
cooperate when we get to the summer?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, here’s what I’ll say: The President wants to get
this legislation, as you know, on his desk for his signature as soon as
possible.  We’re glad to see a bipartisan conference process starting,
and we’re going to continue working closely with Congress to help iron
out differences between the House and the Senate versions. 

But the bottom line is this: The disruptions we’ve seen from the
pandemic and the war in Ukraine have shown us clearly that we can’t
afford to wait to make the kind of investments — like the Bipartisan
Innovation Act contains — to make our economy more resilient to global
shocks, to strengthen our supply chains, and to lower prices for working
families. 

And so that’s what we’re going to do.  We’re going to continue working
with Congress to make this work. 

AIDE:  Great.  Thank you so much.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thanks, guys.

Q    Thanks, Karine.

12:56 P.M. EDT
