---
date: '2022-04-05'
published_time: 2022-04-05 08:21:48-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/04/05/background-press-call-by-senior-administration-officials-on-the-administrations-proposed-rule-to-fix-family-glitch-and-lower-healthcare-costs/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Background Press Call by Senior Administration Officials on the Administration\u2019\
  s Proposed Rule to Fix \u201CFamily Glitch\u201D and Lower Healthcare\_Costs"
---
 
Via Teleconference

5:42 P.M. EDT

MR. MUNOZ:  Hi, everybody.  Happy Monday.  Thank you for joining us on
this call about tomorrow’s announcement around the President, Vice
President, and former President Obama’s event around the Affordable Care
Act.  

We will be providing a factsheet very soon that will also be embargoed
until 5:00 a.m. 

A reminder this call is attributable to “senior administration
officials.” 

With that, I will kick it to \[senior administration official\] to
discuss tomorrow’s announcement.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Hi, everybody.  Thank you for joining
us this afternoon. 

President Biden and Vice President Harris believe that healthcare is a
right, not a privilege.  So, I want to discuss today three things:
First, a regulation that will be released by the Department of the
Treasury tomorrow to strengthen the Affordable Care Act; second, the
tremendous progress we’ve made in helping people get affordable,
high-quality healthcare; and third, an executive order that the
President will sign tomorrow that will direct agencies to continue their
efforts in making coverage more affordable and accessible for American
families.

So, to start, tomorrow Treasury will release a proposed rule that will
help hundreds of thousands more Americans get coverage under the
Affordable Care Act.

Under the ACA, people who do not have access to affordable health
insurance through their jobs may qualify for financial help to buy
coverage under the ACA.

For single people, “affordable” means coverage that costs less than
about 10 percent of their income.

But for spouses and kids that are offered coverage through a family
member’s job, under current rules, they’re treated as having affordable
coverage no matter what the actual cost of that coverage is for them. 
So that could mean that families would have to pay 25 or 30 percent of
income to get coverage through their employer, and they can’t get
financial help under the ACA, under today’s rule. 

So, the rules that Treasury is releasing tomorrow will propose to change
that.  Under Treasury’s new proposed rules, family members who have to
pay more than 10 percent of income for coverage will be able to get
financial help under the ACA.

As a result, 200,000 uninsured people are expected to gain coverage, and
nearly a million more are expected to see lower premiums every day.

To borrow a phrase, this rule is a big deal.  We’re excited about it. 
And we think it (inaudible) significant administrative action to improve
implementation of the ACA that’s been taken since the law was first
enacted.

Second, I want to highlight that tomorrow’s rule builds on the
remarkable progress that we have already made as an administration in
bringing affordable coverage to folks.

Enrollment in coverage through the ACA is at an all-time high, and the
uninsured rate is near historic lows.

One of the very first things we did in this administration was open a
special enrollment period to get people coverage.  President Biden had
been in his seat for less than a month when HHS opened the doors to
HealthCare.gov to ultimately help about 2 million people get
(inaudible).

This winter, we ran the most successful open enrollment period under the
ACA ever: 14.5 million people buying an ACA Marketplace plan; another 1
million signed up for coverage through a related program called the
“Basic Health Plan” — a really tremendous open enrollment period that
brought millions of people into coverage.

In addition, 19 million people are today covered through the Medicaid
expansion, and Medicaid enrollment totals nearly 80 million people.

More people than ever before have the security and peace of mind that
comes with affordable health insurance.

And the American Rescue Plan is a major contributor to this success. 
We’ve made coverage much more affordable for everyone buying through the
ACA.  And the President was proud to sign that legislation.

This also reflects the tireless work of agencies to expand their
outreach and their enrollment assistance, including quadrupling the
amount of in-person staff available to provide outreach assistan- —
enrollment assistance in communities across the country. 

The ACA is facilitating the expansion of Medicaid in Missouri and
Oklahoma, which brought another half a million people into eligibility
for coverage.

In short, this administration has been working since our first hours in
office to get more Americans healthcare, and we’re still at it.

We are incredibly proud of what we’re getting done, but there is more to
do.  And so, tomorrow, the President will also sign an executive order
that directs agencies to continue their efforts to strengthen access to
affordable, high-quality healthcare. 

The executive order will highlight a number of areas:

-   Making it easier for people to enroll in and keep their coverage.
-   Helping people better understand their coverage options so they can
    pick the one that’s best for them.
-   Strengthening and improving the generosity of benefits and improving
    access to healthcare providers.
-   Improving the comprehensiveness of coverage and protecting Americans
    from low-quality health insurance.
-   Continuing to make health coverage more accessible and affordable by
    expanding eligibility and lowering costs for Americans with ACA,
    Medicare, or Medicaid coverage.
-   Connecting people to healthcare services by improving access to
    providers and improving linkages between the healthcare system and
    our communities to help Americans with health-related needs.
-   And finally, taking steps to help reduce the burden of medical debt
    that far too many Americans experience.

And so that’s a sort of a brief summary of the executive order that the
President will sign tomorrow.  So I think, with that, I’m happy to take
questions about this package of announcements.

MR. MUNOZ:  Thank you, \[senior administration official\].  And for
those that joined a little bit late, we will be sending out an embargoed
factsheet soon, and this is attributable to “senior administration
officials.”

Please “raise your hand” if you have any question related to tomorrow’s
announcement.

First, let’s go to Joyce Frieden at MedPage Today.

Q    Hi, thanks for taking my question.  Regarding the Treasury rule,
I’m wondering how much fixing this family glitch is going to cost and
how it will be paid for.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, so I can’t — I can’t speak to
that directly.  Treasury is in charge of interpreting the provisions of
36B of the Affordable Care Act, which is the part of the law that
provides financial assistance to people.  36B tax credits are an
entitlement just like anything else in the tax code, and Treasury is
interpreting their regulations to propose making this change.

MR. MUNOZ:  All right.  Let’s go to Tami at CNN.

Q    Thank you very much for holding this call.  Two questions.  One is:
How quickly do you think that people in the family glitch will be able
to get coverage?  How long will this take?

And then also, can you be a little bit more specific on what types of
things the executive order might result in?  What types of changes?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Sure.  On the first question, Treasury
is proposing that the bona fide interpretation of affordability would
take effect beginning January 1st, 2023, so people would be able to get
financial assistance through the ACA starting at — during the next open
enrollment period.

And as to the executive order, I think I’m not in a position tonight to
preview more than what I have today.  We will be sending out a factsheet
that, broadly, the President is directing agencies to do everything in
their power to make coverage more affordable and accessible.

MR. MUNOZ:  Amy Lotven at Inside Health Policy.

Amy, you’re still muted.  All right, we’ll try you later, Amy.

Let’s go to Tom Howell with The Washington Times.

Q    Hey, thanks for doing the call.  I just want to know about the
bigger subsidies in the ACA.  Does the President plan to address that? 
I believe they expire at the end of the year, but his Build Back Better
Agenda would extend them.  Does he plan to pressure lawmakers over that
to get that part of the agenda passed?  Thanks.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, I’m not going to comment on any
potential negotiations with Congress.  But, as you know, the Build Back
Better Act includes significant coverage policy, including extending the
financial assistance under the ARP.  (Inaudible) policies have
widespread support, and we look forward to getting it done.

MR. MUNOZ:  All right, let’s go back to you, Amy.

Q    Hi, yes.  Sorry about that.  I’m actually really wondering — it
sounds like the affordability threshold will still apply to the
families, but they’ll only — that they’ll be able to access the credit
if they’re over the threshold.  I just — is that right?  So, you’re not
fully — so, the rule doesn’t fully separate the families from the
worker?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So, under the rule, coverage for the
family will be — the affordability of coverage for the family will be
affected.  So, if coverage for the family as a whole costs more than
about 10 percent of household income, then the non-employee family
members will be eligible for financial assistance in the marketplace.

MR. MUNOZ:  Any more questions?  All right, a couple more.

Let’s go to Selena at NPR.

Q    Hi, thank you so much for doing the call.  I just have a question
about the number of people who might be affected.  I was looking at an
analysis from KFF on the so-called “family glitch” that estimated 5.1
million people nationally fall into the family glitch.  The numbers that
you mentioned at the top of the call — you said 200,000 people are
expected to gain coverage, and a million — or I forget — I might have
missed that number — would pay a lower cost. 

I’m just wondering if you can explain, like, something behind your
estimate of who might be impacted here.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, sure.  So there won’t be any
official estimates from the administration coming out tomorrow.  But to
give you some context on sort of what’s out there: You’re right that
there are estimates that there were — that there are about 10 million
people who are affected in some way by the family glitch.  And so all of
those people will have a new option under these proposed rules.

Some of them may choose to stay in the coverage that they’re in today
because they find it more convenient to have their whole family in a
single health plan.  And so, some of the 5 million people who were
affected and get this new option will nonetheless choose to stay in the
type of coverage that they have. 

But others, and the people for whom this is the greatest hardship, will
change their current — you know, whatever they’re doing right now.  So,
as a result, about 200,000 uninsured people are expected to gain
coverage for the first time because they don’t — they have no coverage
at all, say because it’s just too expensive for them. 

And another of that million people, you know, they switch from the
coverage that they have today into more affordable Marketplace coverage.

MR. MUNOZ:  Great.  Let’s go to Brett Samuels with The Hill.

Q    Hey, thanks for doing this call.  I just had a quick question about
former President Obama being part of the event tomorrow.  I was just
hoping you could speak to kind of what role he’ll play in this event and
sort of the significance of having him, you know, at the White House for
the signings of these orders.  Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I don’t have anything to preview
there.  I think you’ll hear more from the President about that tomorrow
afternoon.

MR. MUNOZ:  And, Brett, Jen spoke to this in the briefing today, so
there’s a little bit more detail there. 

I don’t think we have any more questions.  So, with that, thank you,
everybody, for joining.  As a reminder. we will provide a factsheet
shortly tonight.  This and the factsheet are embargoed until 5:00 a.m.  

And if you have any other questions, please reach out to me.  Thank you.

5:58 P.M. EDT
