---
date: '2022-04-28'
modified_time: 2022-04-28 18:14:37-04:00
published_time: 2022-04-28 18:20:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/04/28/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-april-28-2022/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Jen\_Psaki, April 28,\_2022"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

3:16 P.M. EDT       

MS. PSAKI:  Hi, everyone.  Good afternoon. 

Okay, two items for all of you at the top.  Today, we released a report
highlighting the historic small-business boom under the Biden-Harris
administration.  Last year, Americans applied to start 5.4 million new
businesses — 20 percent more than any year on record.  And small
businesses are creating more jobs than ever before.

And it’s been particularly strong for entrepreneurs of color.  For
example, Hispanic entrepreneurs started new businesses in 2021 at the
fastest rate in more than a decade — 23 percent faster than pre-pandemic
levels.

You heard the President say this today, but this approach is in stark
contrast to congressional Republicans’ tax plan, which would raise taxes
by an average of almost $1,200 on nearly half of small-business owners.

Not only does President Biden reject congressional Republicans’ plans to
increase taxes on half of small-business owners, he also has an economic
strategy to keep the small-business boom going, including expanding
access to capital, making historic investments in technical assistance
programs to help entrepreneurs identify resources, leveraging federal
procurement to direct hundreds of billions in government contracts to
small businesses, and leveling the playing field for small-business
owners to reforming the tax code.

I also wanted to note that today the Food and Drug Administration
announced two proposed rules: one to prohibit menthol cigarettes and one
to prohibit flavor- — flavored cigars. 

The rules announced today would enforce regulations related to what
stores sell and what companies manufacture and distribute, which is a
critical — critical action to prevent children from becoming the next
generation of smokers, help adult smokers quit, and significantly reduce
tobacco-related health disparities.

With that, why don’t you kick us off.

Q    Hello, I have two questions about student loan forgiveness.  First
off, has the President concluded that he has the power to do this
unilaterally?

And secondly, does he believe that means testing is the correct approach
to student loan forgiveness?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, there’s been no conclusion of any process internally
yet.  But you heard the President talk this morning about his ongoing
consideration of how to provide additional relief to many Americans who
are still — still have student loans, even though they have not paid a
penny on federal student loans since he took office. 

And what was the second part of your question?

Q    Has he decided if he wants to do means testing?

MS. PSAKI:  So, he has talked in the past about how, you know, he
doesn’t believe that — that millionaires and billionaires, obviously,
should benefit or even people from the highest income.  So that’s
certainly something he would be looking at. 

Q    So, I just want to be very clear about the power to do this.  He’s
looking at doing this issue. 

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    But you’re not saying if he’s going to send a bill to Congress or
he’s actually going to do it himself.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, we definitely know he has the ability and the — the
legal ability to sign a bill Congress passes. 

Q    Sure.

MS. PSAKI:  So what we’re really talking about is authorities through
executive action, which we’re continuing to look at and he’s continuing
to consider. 

Q    And lastly, what concerns does he have about the growing cost of
college?  You know, obviously, the cost of college has been rising very
quickly.  This would reduce borrowers’ out-of-pocket costs so they don’t
have to pay down some of their debt.  But what about that cost of the
education up front?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, it — from the beginning of his administration — and, I
would say, through the course of his career — he has expressed an
interest on the increasing cost of college and the barriers that that
poses to people getting a two-year or four-year education. 

He has taken a number of steps already since he took office to bring
down costs for Americans, including bringing down the cost of college.

The American Rescue Plan provided nearly $40 billion in higher-education
relief for colleges and universities, much of which was earmarked for
emergency financial aid to help students to make college more affordable
for college and — for current and future students. 

He also called for and Congress passed a $400 increase in the maximum
Pell Grant — the largest increase in over a decade. 

And additionally, we have now approved the cancellation of more than
$18.5 billion in student loan debt for more than 750,000 borrowers. 

So while he’s continuing to consider what executive actions he could
take using his own authority — even though if Congress sent him a bill
tomorrow, he could sign it and he would sign it to give $10,000 of
student debt relief — we’ve also — he has not hesitated and has also
taken additional steps.

Q    And the final question: a response to Republicans like Senator
Romney who say this is a political giveaway to consider canceling
student — student loan debt.

MS. PSAKI:  I would say, you know, the President’s view is that, as the
leader of the country, what he needs to do is continue to provide relief
to people who need it most to help people get some extra breathing
room.  And that includes getting people con- — this consideration of
getting people relief who have taken steps to further their education
and maybe take steps to advance their — their family circumstances. 

Go ahead. 

Q    Thanks.  Switching gears to Title 42: The President said today that
the administration would comply with whatever the courts decide.  So,
just to be clear, there’s not a plan to fight this decision?

MS. PSAKI:  That would be a decision made by the Department of Justice,
but they haven’t even done a formal ruling that they’re considering at
this point in time. 

Q    But there’s the temporary restri- — the TRO.  So, at this point,
the administration is — doesn’t have anything to announce, in terms of
fighting this?

MS. PSAKI:  They verbally did the TRO.  They have not done, I don’t
believe, a more formal, written one that has been looked at or
considered by the Department of Justice at this point in time.

Q    Does the President disagree with this ruling?

MS. PSAKI:  Again, it’s the Department of Justice to look at this.  The
President has talked about how he would — the authority is given to the
CDC to make a decision about when the conditions exist to lift Title
42.  They made that decision, and he certainly supports that.  And
that’s why we’re preparing to lift it, through the Department of
Homeland Security and an interagency process.

Q    But if the CDC determined, like you just said, the order was no
longer necessary, then it wouldn’t make sense to fight — to not fight
this, to let that just stand. 

MS. PSAKI:  Well, the Department of Justice would make that decision. 
There hasn’t even been a formal issuing by the court.  It’s been a
verbal report.  They said they would need to look at that.  They would
make any announcement about any legal action. 

Q    And I just want to ask you: We just continue to hear these
Democratic senators that were briefed this week.  Cortez Masto was the
latest.  She was briefed by the administration and said that even though
you’ve been saying there’s this comprehensive plan to deal with the
border after Title 42 is lifted, she has not seen a comprehensive plan. 
She said she did not hear a comprehensive plan on how they are going to
address the surge or the resources needed to make sure we are addressing
the drug trafficking across the border.

So your response to her and just, big picture, why Democrats aren’t
united on this? 

MS. PSAKI:  I can’t speak for all Democrats.  I can tell you that we
share the frustration about how broken our immigration system is and how
there need to be fixes at the border, whether that is smarter security
funding or fixing the asylum processing system that’s long been broken. 

And we would welcome the interest of any Democrat or Republican to work
with us on that effort and talk about and work for it — work on moving
forward the bill the President proposed on his first day in office.

Secretary Mayorkas — who oversees this, of course — has been
testifying.  I think he has four — he’s testifying to four committees,
including the House Judiciary Committee today.  And he laid out six
pillars of our plan, including components that address exactly those
specific pieces: how we would surge resources, personnel,
transportation, medical support; how we’re enhancing CBP processing; how
we’re administrating — administering consequences for unlawful entry;
how we’re bolstering the capacity of nongovernmental organizations; what
we’re doing to target and disrupt the transnational criminal
organizations; and how we’re going to deter irregular migration. 

But this is not an immigration policy.  This is how we’re implementing
the lifting of Title 42.  So we need a longer-term, more comprehensive
immigration reform policy.  And we’d welcome any efforts to work with
that with members of Congress.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  The request for $33 billion — how quickly do you
expect it will move through Congress?  And when is the deadline for when
you absolutely need it?

MS. PSAKI:  I’m not here to set new deadlines.  But I can tell you that
both needs are urgent.  Well, the — I would say that need is urgent, as
is the need for COVID funding is urgent.  
      
In terms of where we are with — with spending, just to give you a sense
of — of the money that we’ve already — we’ve already allocated or
already been giving — putting on the ground to the Ukrainians in the
form of military assistance — I stumbled through that a little bit — as
you know, we had $3.5 billion in military security assistance.  We have
about $250 million of that left in drawdown.  So, obviously, we will
work to expedite that and provide that to the Ukrainians.   
  
But in order to continue to help assist them, help make sure they have
the — the weapons they need, the artillery they need, the equipment they
need, it is certainly urgent to move forward on this funding.

Q    And what is your view on why the economy shrunk 1.4 percent during
the first quarter?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  So, GDP, which is what that’s a measure of, measures a
couple of different components of economic data: consumption,
investment, inventory, and exports.  
  
On a number of these — these data components — we had very positive
signs in this same set of data, including consumption; consumer spending
was up by about 2.5 percent.  On investment, business investment,
residential investment — both up as well.   
  
And on exports, the number was down, but that is largely because our
economy is doing better than many economies around the world.  So, while
we were purchasing a lot of goods from other countries, there wasn’t the
same capacity to purchase our goods.  That is — that is why that number
was — was lower.  
  
And then on inventory, which is another piece of data that is measured,
quarter four of last year had the largest inventory number of any
quarter in history, in large part because, as the supply chain problems
were being fixed — thanks in large part to the President’s efforts —
businesses were able to get goods, and they made enormous purchases —
largest numbers to stock their inventory of any quarter in history.  And
this — what this data is measuring is changes in growth from quarter to
quarter.   
  
So, because of that, even though this was the fifth-largest inventory
quarter in history, in comparison with the fourth quarter of last year,
it showed a decrease, which led to the — to the number.  
  
But what — what economists — many economists — Jason Furman has spoken
to this, and others — what they look at as measures of the strength of
the economy and what they’re monitoring closely from quarter to quarter
as important indicators are consumer spending, business investment,
residential investment.  All of these increased at strong rates in the
first quarter and as did the overall demand, and are good signs for the
strength of the economy.   
  
Q    And lastly, to what extent are you looking at cutting tariffs on
Chinese goods as a way to ease inflation?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, there’s an ongoing review of that led by Ambassador
Tai at USTR.  And we are certainly continuing to look at where these
tariffs — put in place by the prior administration — don’t make sense. 
And one of the factors that we’re looking at as a part of this review is
certainly the impact on jobs and wages and, of course, on inflation. 
But we’re also looking at — and costs, of course, of goods.   
  
But we’re also looking at where we have concerns about the economic
policies and approaches of China.  But I don’t have anything to preview
at this point in terms of how that review is going.   
  
Go ahead.

Q    Just one point of clarification: Does the President want this
funding for Ukraine tied to the COVID-19 funding?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We’re not making a predetermination of that from here.  We
put forward both of these funding requests today because they’re both
vital, they’re both important.  We need them both to help the Ukrainians
and to help ensure we’re continuing our COVID programs here in this
country and around the world.  But we’re not going to predetermine for
Congress how they move forward.  There is just an urgency in moving them
forward.  
  
Q    Okay.  It was just confusing, because in his letter to Congress, he
seemed to say he did want it tied to the COVID-19 funding, but he told
reporters he didn’t care if it was tied to the COVID-19 funding.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  That was not the intention of how it was written.  It was
intended just to convey we’re moving — we’re putting these both forward
today.

Q    Okay.  So you’re not — so the White House is not saying that it
should be tied to the COVID-19 funding?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  No.  We’re saying: These are both urgent.  We would like to
move these forward.  We’ll work with you to determine how to get that
done.

Q    Okay.  And you said you don’t want to put a deadline on when
Congress needs to pass and authorize this $33 billion request that the
President has made.  But how many more weeks can Ukraine go, based on
what they have so far and based on the drawdown authority that the
President still has, before you do start to see interruptions in
military aid and economic assistance and humanitarian aid?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say, because we have $250 million left —  
  
Q    That’s not very much, though, compared to what you’re asking for.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I know, I’m — I’m getting — I’m getting to your point.  I’m
getting to the point here.  
  
You know, there’s obviously more that’s needed.  And we want to be able
to continue to provide a range of security and military assistance to
the Ukrainians.  
  
Now, we strategically frontloaded the military and security assistance
we were providing a couple of weeks ago, expedited the delivery of it,
because we knew that as Russia was repositioning in the east, and really
re- — re- — changing their strategic approach to focus on the Donbas,
they would need that on the front end.   
  
So, it doesn’t mean that it will be exactly the same pace and every
week, but certainly there is an urgency to getting this funding done. 
There has been bipartisan — through.  
  
There has been bipartisan support in the past, and we’re certainly
looking forward to working with them to get this done as quickly as
possible.

Q    And it would seem to suggest that there is a timeline, since
officials told reporters today, briefing it, that they believe this is
enough for Ukraine for the next five months to last through the end of
the fiscal year — which, of course, that would start in a few days if
you’re judging on a five-months timeline.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, that’s a different — that’s a different question than
a timeline for getting the package done.  I mean, we did this on a
fiscal year basis because that seemed to make sense, of course, and also
because we wanted to do it over the long term for planning purposes. 
But it doesn’t mean that the funding would be delivered tomorrow,
obviously.  We have to get it through and move it through Congress.  And
we want to do that as quickly as possible.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  A quick follow on student loans.  Today, the
President said that he is not considering the $50,000 figure that some
Democrats have pushed for.  Is there a range you can provide for what he
is considering?  Is it more than the $10,000 both of you have mentioned
before?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  He has said that before.  So, today was not the first time
he has said that about $50,000 in the past.  I guess it’s been a few
months.  I don’t have a top range for you.  I think he was just reacting
to that size of the number.   
  
He said in the past, and I’ve reiterated, that he would be happy to sign
a piece of legislation or a bill that came to his desk that canceled
$10,000 in student loans.  Could be more than that.  We’re looking at
that.  But I think $50,000 was just his indication of that size and his
opposition to that.

Q    Got it.  And then today, when he was talking about the supplemental
budget, he said that NATO Allies and EU partners are going to pay their
“fair share of the cost as well.”  How does he define “fair share”?

MS. PSAKI:  I think he was trying to send the message, which has already
been underway, that we are going to continue to give a range of — and a
significant range — amount of military and security assistance.  But
other countries — we expect them to continue to step up as well, as this
is going to be a sustained effort, a longer war, as we’ve talked about
before.  We’re going to need other countries to continue to provide a
range of assistance as well.   
      
And we are far and away — the United States is — the largest provider of
military, humanitarian, and economic assistance.  And other countries
have taken steps.  I mean, Germany just announced this week — right? —
their — their plan or their intention, and they may have been delivered,
to provide tanks — something they have never done before.   
  
A number of other countries have announced steps to provide a range of
military assistance and weapons that they have never provided before.   
  
But it was more the President sending a message about the need for every
country to remain committed to this sustained and long-term effort to
support the Ukrainians.  
  
Q    But — but he’s not saying that they should be paying as much as the
U.S. in terms of a monetary figure?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Every country is going to be able to provide different
amounts and different types of assistance.  So it’s not prejudging
that.  It’s just an ask and a reminder and a call to the world that we
need to be in this for the long term, and we all need to continue to
provide a range of assistance.

Q    And then one more on Paul Whelan.  Yesterday, I asked you about
what his brother said.  Today, he himself issued a statement, and he is
asking, “Why was I left behind?”  He mentioned he’s pleased Trevor is
home with his family, but he is asking, “Why hasn’t more been done to
secure my release?”  What is the administration’s response to Paul
Whelan?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I would say that we will continue to do everything possible
to bring Paul Whelan home.  We are in regular touch with his family and
his family members.  And we don’t outline in detail everything we are
doing publicly because our objective is to return him home with his
family.   
  
The President is focused on that.  And we would say to him, we — “We are
going to continue to do everything possible to bring you home.”

Q    Can you say whether there has been any progress made in the past
two, three months on their cases — on Whelan and Brittney Griner?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  It wouldn’t be constructive to outline or detail any
specifics from here because our objective is to be successful, and
talking about these cases publicly and getting into specifics often
isn’t constructive toward that goal.

Go ahead.

Q    Jen, thank you.  I wanted to start by asking you a few questions
about Ukraine.  The U.N. Secretary-General met with President Putin. 
He’s meeting with President Zelenskyy.  He’s trying to strike a deal to
get those who are in the steel plant out.  Ukrainian officials were very
skeptical of these talks heading into this week.  Does the
administration feel as though there’s been any progress that has come
out of his talks with Putin and Zelenskyy?

MS. PSAKI:  Look, I would say that it’s not for us to make a judgment
from here.  We are here to support the efforts of the Ukrainians and the
Ukrainian leaders to pursue diplomatic talks and diplomatic engagements
should they see that as constructive. 

We have not seen evidence that President Putin or the Russians have
taken steps — whether it is allowing for humanitarian convoys to move
forward, humanitarian assistance, creating corridors — that would give
an indication of that. 

But our objective is: continue to implement the strategy that we laid
out from early in this conflict, which is to provide the type of
security and military assistance to help the Ukrainians fight and win on
the battlefield — they obviously did that in Kyiv in pushing back the
Russians — to give them economic and humanitarian assistance to
strengthen their hand in diplomatic talks.

Q    Against the backdrop of the President’s announcement today and
request for this $33 billion aid package, can you say: Is it the policy
goal of the United States for Ukraine to defeat Russia? 

MS. PSAKI:  Well, look, it depends on how you — we’re not going to
define that from here.  That’s for the Ukra- —

Q    How would you define it?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, that’s for the Ukrainians to define. 

What we are going to do from here is to continue to provide them with a
range of security and military assistance, as is evidenced by the
package that the President proposed and put forward to Capitol Hill
today; to strengthen their ne- — their hand at the negotiating table;
and ensure that they have the support and backing of the United States
and the world.

Q    Just to be clear — and I understand what you’re saying: It’s for
the Ukrainians to define.  But does the United States think that success
has to include Russians leaving all of the new portions of Ukraine that
they currently invaded? 

MS. PSAKI:  Again, we’re not going to define that from here, Kristen. 
There are a range of negotiations that may happen and may take place,
and we’re just not going to get ahead of that.

Q    Let me ask you about Build Back Better, if I might, or the remains
of Build Back Better.

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    Given that you are pushing for this new aid, given that you are
pushing for pandemic aid as well, where does that fall right now on the
agenda?  Is there urgency to get those priorities passed as well? 

MS. PSAKI:  Absolutely.  I mean, here’s the thing about Congress and
governing: You — you can and you are able to do more than one thing at
one time.  Right?  Just even look at the committees of jurisdiction in
Congress.  The committees that are considering and looking at, you know,
some of the military assistance and security packages may not be the
same that are considering and writing pieces of legislation on a
reconciliation package.

There is a great deal of interest and passion on Capitol Hill among
Democrats in moving forward on the President’s agenda and the
President’s proposal to lower the cost of prescription drugs; to lower
the cost of childcare, of healthcare, of eldercare.  And we’re going to
continue advocating and fighting for that.

Q    In order for it to get done against the backdrop of this election
year, do you need to have a deal in place by Memorial Day — that has
obviously been floated as the deadline?

MS. PSAKI:  I’m not here to set new deadlines, Kristen.  We know there
is interest, there’s passion, there’s advocacy.  We’re continuing to do
a lot of work behind the scenes, and we’re going to continue to fight to
get it done. 

Q    I know you don’t want to talk about deadlines, but if you could
give us a reality check.  The President said today he’s going to
announce something on student loans in just a few weeks.  You had said
that there could potentially be an announcement by August — the end of
the summer.  Realistically, can we expect to hear something from the
President in the next few weeks on this? 

MS. PSAKI:  Stay tuned and we’ll see.  Obviously, we have to continue a
policy process.  The President will make a decision.  And once we have a
decision to make, we’ll — we’ll, of course, announce that.

What I was getting at, really, is: The end of August is also the time
that the student loan payment deferral — that’s the kind of period that
it was extended through.  So, it was more about making a decision before
then.

Q    Okay.  Thanks, Jen.

MS. PSAKI:  We always like to beat timelines here.  You know. 

So, go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Jen.  On student loan debt —

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    — the Committee for a Responsible Budget has spoken out against
this, saying they’ve done a calculation that canceling $10,000 per
borrower would cost $250 billion, $50,000 per borrower would cost $950
billion.  What do you say to people, sort of, in their camp who are
concerned that canceling student debt can have inflationary impact? 

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I haven’t looked at all those numbers and what incomes
they would apply to, nor has there been a proposal that the President
has put out on this front or anything that’s passed through Congress. 

But what I would say, broadly speaking, is that when you look at the
choices that need to be made, the President is looking at the impact of
student loans — something that many people in this country, millions of
Americans undertook to get a better education, to make sure they were
advancing their own knowledge, to maybe help their family have a better
life — that finding ways to provide relief to students, to make sure
that these working-cla- — working families are getting relief is more
important than tax cuts to millionaires, billionaires, and
corporations. 

And we can make choices about where we invest and where we think we can
make the tax system more fair.  But there isn’t even a bill that’s moved
through Congress, nor have we put a proposal together.  So I don’t —
those numbers aren’t based on any reality at this moment.

Q    But broadly speaking, is there any concern that, you know, given
this narrative that it could have an inflationary impact that’s coming
from critics of this administration who are looking at the economy,
looking at inflation, and having problems with where it stands, is there
a concern that, you know, canceling student debt could make it hard for
the Joe Manchins of Congress to sign on to bills that would, you know,
pass elements of Build Back Better that you guys are still trying to get
through, which he said he won’t do because of inflation?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I’m not going to speak, obviously, for Senator
Manchin.  I haven’t heard him make that point in the past either. 

What I would say is that the way that inflation impacts people across
the country is costs — right? — costs to their bank accounts, costs to
their budgets.  And what we’re talking about here is how to provide
people with relief, how they can — how we can provide them with relief
or consider providing them with relief so that they have more money to
spend on things in their lives.  And providing student loan relief is
exactly that.

And the President has taken a range of steps to address and lower costs
for people.  Considering this is one of them.  Extending the pause on
student loan payments is one of them.  But also, fixing the glitch — the
“family glitch” in the Affordable Care Act is another one of them.

So, when we talk about inflation, sometimes we talk about it like, you
know, a 50,000-foot ivory tower economist might.  And really, what in- —
how inflation impacts people is costs and what they’re paying out of
their pocket. 

So, actually, considering this would be helping Americans address
exactly that issue.

Q    And then on this new report that the Department of Homeland
Security is setting up a Disinformation Governance Board to tackle
misinformation ahead of the midterms: Secretary Mayorkas said that part
of its intention was to tackle misinformation in Hispanic communities
especially.  Can you give us an idea of what this board is going to be
doing, what their authority would look like? 

MS. PSAKI:  Sure, Jacqui.  I really haven’t dug into this exactly.  I
mean, we, of course, support this effort, but let me see if I can get
more specifics.  We know that there has been a range of disinfo out
there about a range of topics — I mean, including COVID, for example,
and also elections and eligibility.  But I will — I will check and see
if there’s more specifics.

Q    There’s been some criticism of the person who’s been chosen to
oversee this board.  She had previously called the Hunter Biden laptop a
“Trump campaign product,” seeming to discredit its validity — or
validity of reporting surrounding that. 

How can you assuage concerns of people who are looking at this person
who’s been appointed to this position and wondering if she’s going to be
able to accurately judge misinformation now that a lot of that reporting
has been proven to be factual in some ways? 

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I don’t have any comments on the laptop.

But what I can tell you is that it sounds like the objective of the
board is to prevent disinformation and misinformation from traveling
around the country in a range of communities.  I’m not sure who opposes
that effort, and I don’t know who this individual is, so I have no
comments on it specifically.

Q    Her name is Nina Jankowicz.  She also just recently made some
polarizing comments about the Twitter — Elon Musk’s Twitter purchase. 
It’s just getting some pushback from critics who are saying this person
may not be the right choice for a board that is run by the Department of
Homeland Security.  Can you speak to that at all?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have any information about this individual.  I can
check on more information about the board.

Go ahead.

Q    How much of the original $13.6 billion for Ukraine has actually
been spent at this point?  Reporters are still trying to understand the
answer to that.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I noted a little bit earlier, I think, in response —
in proactive, preemptive response to this question, that, of the $3.5
billion on security, we’ve spent $3.25 billion of that already, which we
have transparently provided regular info to all of you on.

In terms of the humanitarian and economic assistance, a lot of it has
been allocated to how it would be spent.  I can see if we have an update
on what has actually gone to ground.

Q    Okay.  And secondly, on the — on the menthol ban, some Black
community activists, the ACLU, members of the CDC have voiced concerns
that it could push more of the illicit market, which would lead to
racially profiling Black smokers.  Can this administration ensure that
won’t happen?

MS. PSAKI:  Absolutely.  Because this rule would go after manufacturers
and people who sell, not individuals who smoke menthol cigarettes.  And
it would save lives.

I’d also note that the NAACP put out a statement saying: “For decades,
the tobacco industry has been targeting African Americans and have
contributed to the skyrocketing rates of heart disease, stroke, and
cancer across our community.  The tobacco industry is on a narrow quest
for profit, and they have been killing us along the way.  The NAACP has
been calling for a ban on menthol cigarettes and flavored e-cigarettes
for years now, and we applaud the FDA’s…plan…”

But what we’re talking about here is this — these rules are estimated
that — it’s estimated that eliminating menthol and tobacco products
could prevent up to 654,000 deaths over the next 40 years and up to
238,000 deaths among African Americans.

But this is not about going after individuals smoking menthol
cigarettes; this is about manufacturers and people who are selling them.

Q    Jen, why does President Biden believe pro-life taxpayers, Catholics
among them —

Q    On — on inflation. 

Q    — should fund Title 10 clinics —

Q    Excuse me.  On inflation — hey!

Q    — that advise women on how to get an abortion?

MS. PSAKI:  Sir.  We don’t —

Q    You’re going down the row, and you’re giving these people five and
six questions.  I get one, don’t I?  And the people back here too —

MS. PSAKI:  I think if you could — if you could sit here and be
respectful —

Q    You give them five to six questions.

MS. PSAKI:  — of your colleagues here —

Q    So, again, my question is —

MS. PSAKI:  — that might work better.

Go ahead.

Q    — why does President Biden believe pro-life taxpayers —

MS. PSAKI:  Sir.  Sir.

Q    — Catholics among them —

MS. PSAKI:  I think he’s the next question. 

Go ahead.

Q    Yes.  Okay, so on —

Q    — should have to fund Title 10 clinics that advise women on how to
get an abortion?  Simple question.

Q    You’re being very disrespectful.

Q    — on the AMLO meeting, your statement laid out a bunch of domestic
issues that would be discussed, and regional issues —

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    — like economic cooperation, et cetera.  I was wondering if the
President was planning to raise AMLO’s attitude towards Russia and
Ukraine.  He’s been really loath to criticize Russia, and he hasn’t
really joined this international effort.  So, does the President plan to
raise that tomorrow?

MS. PSAKI:  You know, it’s a good question.  The primary focus of the
meeting, as you outline, is about, kind of, getting ahead of the Summit
of the Americas, talking about the agenda.  Obviously, there’s a lot to
be discussed as it relates to migration. 

And this meeting was planned in advance of our long-term planning of the
potential lifting of Title 42 as well.  It is often on the President’s
mind, as you know — Russia and Ukraine and the conflict.  So, while it
may not be on the preemptive agenda, we will have a more comprehensive
readout once the meeting is concluded.

Q    And then, on the GDP report, I’m just wondering if the contraction
has the White House rethinking its support for the Fed’s plan to raise
interest rates?

MS. PSAKI:  We continue to support the intention or stated intention of
the independent Federal Reserve to recalibrate, and we support that
effort.

I noted a lot of the different data measurements here because I think
it’s important to note that the inventory piece was not unexpected.  I
mean, we actually spoke to it a couple of days ago as well, given the
record inventory numbers from the fourth quarter of last year and the
fact that it measures the comparison and the change of growth from
quarter to quarter.

Q    And then lastly, this has happened while you came out here so you
might not have heard about it, but Senator Manchin said at a hearing
that he thinks the electric vehicle tax credit, quote, “makes no
sense.”  And I’m wondering what your reaction to that is and whether you
think that further complicates a skinny reconciliation bill getting

through.

MS. PSAKI:  I would say that Senator Manchin remains a friend of the
President’s and someone we will continue to work with and look forward
to continuing engagements with.

Go ahead.

Q    So, again, my question: Why does President Biden believe pro-life
taxpayers, Catholics among them —

Q    Okay, so, earlier you were asked about the economic —

Q    — should fund Title 10 clinics that advise women on having an
abortion?

Q    — you were asked about economic and humanitarian assistance aid
amount. 

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    I’m wondering: The military aid, it seems like the President said
has, quote, “basically” run out.  The military — I’m sorry, the
humanitarian and economic aid, if it has not yet run out, could those
funds be diverted first from the White House to additional security and
military assistance?  Is that something that you all can do?  Is it
something you are considering?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t believe.  It’s a good question.  I don’t believe
that’s under consideration in large part because the humanitarian and
economic assistance is vital.  Think about the number of the millions of
refugees, the millions of people who have been — become homeless as a
result of this — or no longer in their homes as a result of this war. 
And there are a range of economic needs that President Zelenskyy has
spoken about himself about — that will be needed over the coming months.

So that’s why there are multiple buckets, and that will continue to be
the case.  I’m not aware of any consideration of reallocation of funds.

Q    And then, the other question I was going to ask is: In terms of
having the 250 military — I’m sorry, $250 million in military assistance
that remains, could you all essentially spend money on the front side in
the coming weeks if Congress is unable to pass something, recoup it from
the supplemental later?  And if you do that, is there a limit how much
money you can spend that way upfront?

MS. PSAKI:  Just so I understand — I may have to ask OMB this question —
can we kind of get a line of credit of sorts?

Q    Correct.  Exactly.

MS. PSAKI:  Okay.  To — to kind of purchase or things along those
lines. 

Let me check and see with our budgetary experts.  No one knows more than
how this works than Shalanda Young, so I will check with her and get
back to you.

Q    And the last question I was going to ask is: Is it the
administration’s policy to continue to provide essentially an unlimited
amount of money to Ukraine?  I mean, is there a top-line budget?  And is
the thinking that the administration will continue to support Ukraine
for as long as it needs, for how much money it needs?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think we did this five-month request because we
wanted to be able to do longer-term planning and work with the
Ukrainians, our European partners.  This is not all for Ukraine, it’s
also for some of our Eastern European partners and others to help
support them during this time as well.

But I’m not going to get ahead of where we will be in three months, four
months, five months.  Our objective is continue to support the
Ukrainians.  But I’m not going to get ahead of where we are at this
point in time.

I can note — and I know this goes to Alex’s earlier question — I mean a
little bit in terms of the other components, and I can see if there’s
more of a specific of what’s been spent down. 

But when it comes to humanitarian, economic, food, and other security
assistance, some of that funding is, you know, $1.7 billion to ensure
continuity of Ukraine’s democratic operations and provide other
macroeconomic assistance; hundreds of millions of dollars in food,
shelter, and other humanitarian aid to Ukrainians.  But we can also see
if there’s more specifics on where we are with the spend-out of it.

Go ahead.

Q    Yeah, revisiting student loan debt and that issue.  Why isn’t
President Biden willing to go as high as $50,000?  That’s the figure
that Majority Leader Chuck Schumer has pointed to.  That’s the figure
that a lot of progressive Democrats have pointed to.  So what about that
number gives the President concern?

MS. PSAKI:  The President himself has spoken to this in the past, so I’d
really point you to his own words on this front. 

Q    Remind me what he said then. 

MS. PSAKI:  I’m happy to get them to you after the briefing, but what I
can tell you is that the President has said many times that he would be
happy to sign a bill that would provide $10,000 in relief to individuals
who have student loans, and Congress could send him that.  That hasn’t
happened yet.  That could be the first focus of Congress, as an
example.  And he’s continuing to consider what he has the executive
authority or authority to do with his own power.  So, I’m just not going
to get ahead of that consideration process.

Go ahead.

Q    So, again, it’s a simple question: Why does President Biden —

Q    Jen, you mentioned the $33 billion package and how urgent it is. 
We don’t yet really have a timeline on how urgent — you know, if it’s
weeks or months.  Can you detail at all sort of the White House strategy
behind getting that money secured?  The President, obviously, next week
is going to Alabama to tour Lockheed Martin and the Javelins.  It may be
one opportunity —

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah, to see Javelins — Javelins being made.

Q    That may be one opportunity to draw attention to this.  Are there
other things that the White House is doing strategically to get that
urgency, you know, felt by members of Congress?

MS. PSAKI:  Look, I think you are going to see a full-court press from
us on this funding, as well as the COVID funding, which is very — which
is vital to the continuation of our fight against the pandemic.

And you will see that in the form of engagement with members on the Hill
and committees; you will see that in the form of our Secretary of State,
our Secretary of Defense, and other national security officials speaking
publicly, testifying, as many of them are, and speaking to it during
testimony.

And obviously, you noted, the President’s visit to the factory — the
Lockheed Martin factory, I believe, in Alabama next week. 

Even the decision today for the President to make the announcement
himself instead of doing just a background briefing and providing all of
the details to all of you was an effort to talk through the vital need
of this assistance, what it would go to, and elevate it to that level.

Q    And then, is there any effort, I guess — you heard this a little
bit from him today talking about how Ukrainians are giving up their
lives, so the money — I guess, is there anything that the White House is
doing to address the concern from some Americans that this is an awful
lot of money going to a foreign country when we have domestic needs at
home?

I don’t know if there’s anything proactively that you guys may do to try
to make that case for why this amount of money is needed.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say that we’ve also seen an incredibly heart-
— heartfelt outpouring of support from the American people for the
efforts of the United States to lead in standing up to Russian
aggression and to stand up in favor and support of the Ukrainians.

You know, to the President, this is about American leadership in the
world.  It’s also about standing up for democracy versus autocracy. 
It’s about standing up against one foreign country invading another
foreign country.  And, you know, it’s about American leadership in the
world.

So, we will continue to articulate that and make that clear.  And that
is part of the reason why the President also detailed in specificity
today what all of this would go to.  I mean, some of it — a great deal
of it is, of course, to military assistance to fight this war, but there
is funding in there, as he noted this morning, for food security and
ensuring that we are addressing any food shortages around the world. 
There is assistance that is going into humanitarian assistance and
helping the outflow of refugees.  And so, it was important to him
personally to lay out the specifics in his remarks this morning. 

Q    Can I follow up on —

Q    So, again, a really simple question —

MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead.

Q    Yes, thanks, Jen.  Looking ahead to the President’s —

Q    There’s a simple process, sir. 

Q    (Inaudible) question.  You give these people six questions in the
front row.

Q    Looking ahead to the President’s trip to Japan —

Q    It’s disrespectful.

Q    — that was announced last night, I’m wondering if you can talk
about — and the Quad summit.

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    I’m wondering if you can talk how the President will raise sort of
a unified response to Russia — 

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    — with India at the table and then also, sort of, the China-Taiwan
issue.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, on the Japan — on the first part, on Russia, I would
say, first, we’ve had a number of engagements, as you know, with leaders
in India about our approach to supporting the Ukrainians in this — in
this war, whether that is sanctions and the enormous sanctions package
we’re putting in — we’ve put in place or, of course, the assistance
we’ve provided.  We will convey the same sentiments in this meeting. 

Now, this meeting is several weeks away, so a lot can certainly happen. 
And as you know, other members of the Quad have also been vital partners
and vital, you know, supporters of the Ukrainians’ effort to fight the
war, including Japan.  I mean, Japan — just as an example — has not only
provided a range of assistance, but they’ve also agreed to divert some
of the LNG resources to help Europe.  So there’s a number of steps they
have also taken that will be a part of the discussion. 

And certainly, the President will provide an update on what we’re doing
and where things stand at that point in time. 

We’re just not quite there on previewing the agenda yet.  Obviously, the
President’s position on Taiwan has not changed.  He will certainly
restate it during this meeting, but I’m sure we’ll have more to preview
as we get closer to the trip. 

Q    And China, Taiwan — how will that be raised as well?

MS. PSAKI:  Again, as we get closer to the trip — there’s not a change
in our policy.  Obviously, the President’s policy is based on the Taiwan
Relations Act.  That will continue.  And as we get closer to the trip,
I’m sure we’ll have more to preview. 

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  One question on Moldova and one on COVID.  Do you
have any update, any insight on the explosions in Transnistria earlier
in the week?

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah. 

Q    And if the Russians were to open a new front in Moldavian
territory, would that trigger any new consequences for Russia?

MS. PSAKI:  On the first part, I just don’t have new confirmation or new
details to read out from here on — we’re still continuing to look at the
explosions from earlier this week. 

I’m just not going to get ahead of a hypothetical at this point in time
in terms of what consequences there would be.

Q    Yesterday, you were talking about how there’s great access to
Paxlovid —

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    — in the country.  You’re trying to get the word out on its
effectiveness.  One of the main issues with Paxlovid is that an
individual who is eligible has to test positive, and then they have to
race to get it within three days even though they’re quarantining.  Is
there any conversation within the administration to change that for an
eligible individual to be able to get it preemptively?

MS. PSAKI:  I think that would be a decision likely made by our health
and medical experts, so I just don’t have anything to preview at this
point in time. 

It requires a prescription, right?  But there are a range of ways to
have those conversations with your doctor.  So I’m not sure it always
involves a race to the doctor’s office.  But different doctors can have
virtual appointments and other means of getting prescriptions.  It’s
about consulting to ensure you’re eligible.

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Jen.  So, I have a question on Ukraine, and then a
follow-up on my colleague’s questions.  Zelenskyy’s top advisor tweeted
today that “Ukraine should decide whether to strike \[Russian\] military
facilities.”  I know you’ve spoken to — on this before, but — you’re
trying to avoid a hypothetical situation.  But this seems like it’s
getting closer towards a non-hypothetical situation.  Can you — can you
at least outline — (laughter) — outline —

MS. PSAKI:  I appreciated that.  Okay.  Go ahead. 

Q    — whether the administration believes that this is escalatory or
could be constructive?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, you know, one, I think it’s important to take a step
back and remember what we’re talking about here.  I mean, it is Russia
that started this war, invaded Ukraine, and violated Ukraine’s
sovereignty and territorial integrity.  It’s Russian forces that have
committed war crimes and horrifying atrocities.  And it’s Russia that
continues to attack Ukrainian targets in Ukraine every day. 

So even if we are, dare I say, “getting into a hypothetical,” what we’re
talking about here is not any intention of Ukraine invading Russia and
trying to take Russian territory, going after Russian civilians, going
after Russians’ hospitals.  We’re talking about consideration of
military targets.  It’s something very different.  So I just think
that’s important context for everybody to consider.

Q    Still on Ukraine: There’s no formal announcement as of right now
about Jakarta inviting Zelenskyy to the G20.  But our sources suggest
that they are indeed inviting both Zelenskyy as well as Putin.  So,
under those circumstances, would the President consider attending?  I
know it’s still six months away.  But under those circumstances,
(inaudible)?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, we certainly welcomed reports about Ukraine’s
invitation.  Obviously, we can’t confirm that on behalf of Indonesia,
who is hosting.  And the President has been clear about his view: This
shouldn’t be business as usual, and that Russia should not be a part of
this.

But, again, it’s six months away; we don’t even have confirmation of
these reports.  So I’m certainly not going to get into a hypothetical in
this case.

Q    And just to —

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    — to follow up on the issue of, you know, Americans being concerned
about the amount of money being sent out to Ukraine: One of the things
that the President outlined today in his speech was not just
humanitarian assistance, but also allow pensions and social support to
be paid to the Ukrainian people. 

So, what would you say to the American public who says, “Okay, it’s one
thing to help Ukrainian refugees with food and shelter, but why should
we be paying for their pensions?”

MS. PSAKI:  Well, look, I would say that we have provided a range of
economic assistance, because we know that their economy has been
devastated — not of their doing, because they were invaded by a foreign
country.

Q    But how is that —

MS. PSAKI:  And they’re going — let me — let me finish.  And they are
going to need assistance in order to recover.  We provide assistance —
economic and humanitarian assistance — to a range of countries around
the world because that’s part of American leadership.  And so, I would
say that’s the reasoning for this assistance being proposed in the
package.

Go ahead.

Q    Jen, on menthol — going back to the opposition in the Black
community: I talked to Congresswoman Frederica Wilson today, and she
said she’s opposing it.  She says the President not — “should not only
deal with menthol, but ban all” — instead of just menthol.  She feels
that it will cause a profiling issue.  And she also says this is
something that should not be dealt with in the midterms because it will
split the Black community.  What do you say to that?  And are you
talking to Frederica Wilson, Al Sharpton, Ben Crump, and others about
this very issue?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, let me try to answer all your questions there.  I’m
sure you’ll let me know if I don’t, April, of course. 

You know, this is a public health decision made by the FDA.  And the
objective of it was not to address politics or handle politics in one
way or another, but to save lives. 

And the studies estimate that with menthol cigarettes — if they’re no
longer available, it could prevent over 650,000 deaths, including
238,000 African Americans.  There are also high rates of use by children
and young adults.  Menthol also increases the appeal of cigarettes,
makes them easier to use, especially for kids. 

And what we have seen, as you know, is decades of targeted marketing
activities at the African American community to promote further
purchasing and, in many ways — and, for many, addiction to these
cigarettes. 

So, this is not — but what I think is important for everybody to know
and understand, including opponents, is: This is not targeting
individuals.  This is not to give anybody license to arrest somebody who
is smoking a cigarette — a menthol cigarette.  This is going after the
manufacturers of this.  It is going after those who are selling, because
it is — it has — we have seen decades of marketing targeted activities
at exactly these communities.

Q    So, with that said — as you say, “decades” — I mean, there has been
efforts to stop the targeting through billboards in urban communities in
the ‘90s, and on and on.   This is decades old.  But why now?  You know,
there’s been progression, but why now instead of other issues?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think, again, this is a public health decision that
went through a public health process.  It wasn’t made through a
political prism or made, you know, for any other reason than the lives
that it could save.

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Jen.  At least seven sailors have died by suicide since
the USS George Washington began undergoing (inaudible) overhaul.  There
have been three just within the last month.  The Navy today confirmed
three from prior years.  Is the President aware of these suicides?  Does
he have any response to them?  And is the military doing enough to make
sure that it is promoting the mental wellbeing of our service members? 

MS. PSAKI:  Well, certainly the President is regularly briefed and is
aware.  And the service men and women and the stress and the pressure on
them is something that is on his mind, including making sure we have the
right mental healthcare, the right treatments for any individual who may
be suffering from depression or anything that might lead to suicide. 

In terms of an assessment of what the steps they are taking or what
they’re doing, I’d really point you to the Department of Defense, who
would be better versed to speak to the specifics.

Q    Sure.  And then to follow up on a question from yesterday about
Ukraine and tariffs: The President could — today, if he wanted to — by
executive action, undo these Trump-era tariffs on steel imports from
Ukraine.  Is there any reason why he wouldn’t do that?  Does it have
anything to do with pushback from unions?

MS. PSAKI:  There’s an ongoing consideration and process of reviewing a
range of steps we can help — we can take to provide relief to the
Ukrainians, a review of tariffs.  But there’s a range of factors.  And I
just don’t have anything to preview in that process at this point.

Q    Okay.  But that is something that he is considering?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  There’s a range of options on the table.  
  
Go ahead, in the back.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  I wanted to ask: The House is out next week, and
usually that would be where an appropriations bill would start.  Given
that the President is saying the COVID funding is so urgent, in addition
to the Ukraine proposal, how do you see this playing out legislatively,
in the quick that you need it to?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, this is something — now that we’ve put the proposal
forward and put it forward and sent it up to the Hill, a lot of the work
is happening behind the scenes, engagement with our legislative team —
Steve Ricchetti, Louisa Terrell and this team — with leaders on the
House side, the Senate side to move it forward as quickly as
possible.   
  
But in terms of the legislative mechanics, I’d really point you to
leaders on the Hill for specifics on that.

Q    And one other question on COVID funding.  The Biden administration
has been — I don’t know if “reticent” is the right word — to release
spending that you’ve done on COVID tests, the rapid testing program,
whether it’s how much you spent per test or overall.  Is that
information that you’re planning to make public or planning to provide
to the Senate and the House as they consider whether to provide more
funding?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  The testing program in terms of people being able to order
free tests?  
  
Q    Yeah, the COVID tests (inaudible).  
  
MS. PSAKI:  What specifically do you think we haven’t provided?  
  
Q    The amounts that you spent per test or overall per contract —

MS. PSAKI:  I’m sure if members of Congress or committees are interested
in information, we’ll have those discussions with them directly.   
  
Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  Two questions.  My first question is about the
security pact between China and the Solomon Islands.  Do you have any
concerns that China is taking advantage of what’s going on in the
Pacific because the U.S. is so focused on Ukraine and Russia?

MS. PSAKI:  I know we have spoken to this a little bit in the past and
expressed some concern at the time.  I’ll have to talk to our national
security team and see if we have any — any updates on recent
developments.

Q    And I just have one more question about President Biden’s trip to
Asia.  Could you confirm reports by some Asian media outlets that are
saying that President Biden is going to announce some kind of China
strategy during his trip to Korea and Japan?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Again, this trip is weeks away, which is a lifetime for us,
so we’re not quite there yet on previewing specifics of the trip and
what it will entail.   
  
Why don’t we do the last one, and then I got to wrap it up.

Q    Thank you, Jen.  Thank you.  The Minnesota Department of Human
Rights found that the city of Minneapolis and the MPD engaged in a
pattern of practice of racial discrimination.  They’re working on some
consent decree, but we know that can take some time.  Is there anything
that the President can do moving forward?  Can we say that the George
Floyd Justice in Policing Act seems like it’s shelved for now?  And has
the President seen that report?  What’s his reaction?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have any direct reaction from the President to that
report.  I can certainly check with him on that.  We’re still consid- —
continuing to consider a police reform executive order, as you know. 
That’s — consideration is underway.  It continues to be underway.  And
the President has every intention of signing one.   
  
And, of course, we would, of cour- — still love to have bipartisan
legislation passed through Congress.  We know the anniversary is coming
up in just a few weeks.  And certainly, that’s something that remains on
the President’s mind.   
  
Thank you, everyone, so much.  
  
4:07 P.M. EDT 
