---
date: '2022-04-06'
modified_time: 2022-04-06 14:29:47-04:00
published_time: 2022-04-06 14:29:46-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/04/06/background-press-call-by-senior-administration-officials-on-new-economic-costs-on-russia/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Background Press Call by Senior Administration Officials on New Economic Costs\
  \ on\_Russia"
---
 
Via Teleconference

10:05 A.M. EDT

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  And thanks, everyone, for joining us today.

So, as a quick reminder, this call is on background, attributable to a
“senior administration official,” and the contents of this call are
embargoed until the end of the call.

For your awareness and not for reporting, our speaker on the call today
is \[senior administration official\]. 

So, with that, I’ll turn it over to you for some opening remarks.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thank you, \[moderator\].  Thanks,
everybody, for joining.  Yeah, I’ll say a few things at the top, and
then happy to jump into your questions.

The sickening brutality in Bucha has made tragically clear the
despicable nature of the Putin regime.  And today, in alignment with G7
allies and partners, we’re intensifying the most severe sanctions ever
levied on a major economy.

All of you have seen the factsheet, so I’m going to step back and just
explain the rationale for choosing these actions in the context of the
five pillars that underpin our sanctions strategy.

So, number one, as all of you know, we’ve sought to generate a financial
shock by cutting off Russia’s largest banks and its central bank from
doing any business with the U.S. and freezing any of its assets that
touch the U.S. financial system or those of our allies.

And today, we’re dramatically escalating the financial shock by imposing
full blocking sanctions on Russia’s largest financial institution,
Sberbank, and its largest private bank, Alfa Bank.

Sberbank is the main artery in the Russian financial system.  By itself,
it holds nearly one third of Russia’s total banking sector assets;
that’s over $500 billion.  That’s roughly twice the size of the
second-largest Russian bank, which we previously fully blocked. 

And in total, we’ve now fully blocked more than two thirds of the
Russian banking sector, which, before the invasion, held $1.4 trillion
in assets.  

Number two, we said we would cut off cutting-edge exports to Russia to
disable Putin’s military and deny him the ability to diversify and
modernize his economy.

So, today, in alignment with the G7 and the EU, we’re announcing a ban
on new investment in Russia, which President Biden will implement with
an executive order.  And this will make sure that the mass exodus from
Russia that we’re seeing from the private sector, which is now over 600
multinational companies and growing — that it will endure.

And without investment from our private sector, Putin will lose private
sector know-how and skills that travel with investment, and the knock-on
effects to the ongoing brain drain from Russia will be profound. 

Third, we’ve said we’re methodically ejecting Russia from the
international economic order to deny the privileges and benefits it once
enjoyed, such as its most-favored-nation trading status, its borrowing
privileges from the IMF and the World Bank.

And in that spirit, on Monday we cut off Russia’s ability to use its
frozen central bank funds to make debt payments.  And so, Russia will
now have to find new sources of dollars from outside the U.S. and to
find a new payment route, other than U.S. banks, to avoid falling into
default.  And that’s Russia’s choice as to how it proceeds.

And of course, even if Russia taps into other sources of hard currency
to remain current on its debt obligations, that will translate into
fewer resources available to Putin to fund his war machine. 

Fourth, we’ve said we’d degrade Russia’s status as a leading energy
supplier and thereby cut off its largest source of export and budget
revenue.  We’ve done that previously by banning U.S. imports of Russian
oil, gas, and coal; by working with the Germans and the EU to shut down
Nord Stream 2; and by cutting off energy technologies that Russia needs
to sustain its oil and gas production.

And today, just as a preview, you’ll hear more from the EU on their
efforts to take this a step further. 

Lastly, we said we’d expose Russia’s kleptocracy and show that Putin and
his cronies have been ripping off the Russian people for decades. 
Already, before today, we had sanctioned more than 140 oligarchs and
their family members, and over 400 Russian government officials.  These
are the key architects of the war.

And today, we’re sanctioning Putin’s adult children, Minister Lavrov’s
wife and his daughter, and members of Russia’s Security Council.

In terms of impact — and we can get into this in the questions if you’d
like — I mean, as all of you have seen, these sanctions are generating
the impact we warned Putin about for months prior to the invasion. 
Russia’s GDP is projected to shrink by double digits this year.  And to
put that in perspective, that’s more than twice the contraction it
suffered after it defaulted in 1998. 

But unlike then, when Russia was in the process of getting integrated
into the global economy, it’s now in the process of being isolated as a
pariah state.

The economic shock this year alone is projected by the IEF to wipe out
the past 15 years of economic gains.  Russia used to be the 11th-largest
economy in the world.  It’s now very likely to drop out of the top 20. 

Inflation: The latest print this week was that inflation in Russia is
already above 15 percent and projected to hit 20 percent or more. 
Interest rates in Russia are already 20 percent.

And so, this combination of sky-high inflation and interest rates will
cripple Russia’s long-term growth potential and so will the exit of the
more than 600 companies that I referenced earlier.  

And the sad reality is Putin’s war will make it harder for Russians to
travel abroad.  It means their debit cards may not work.  They may only
have the option to buy knockoff phones and knockoff clothes.  The
shelves at stores may be empty.  The reality is the country is
descending into economic and financial and technological isolation.  And
at this rate, it will go back to Soviet-style living standards from the
1980s.

But look, don’t take my word for it: Putin himself has said the
sanctions will require deep structural changes to the Russian economy to
deal with the new realities, including inflation and unemployment. 
Minister Lavrov has said “no one could have predicted” the central bank
actions. 

They simply weren’t prepared for their economic fortress to crumble.
 And that’s what’s happened.

Let me stop there and take your questions.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Could we cue up the directions to ask a question
please? 

Q    Thanks for doing this.  My question is about India.  You were
\[redacted\], and that’s been reported on extensively.  Where does India
stand on the second set of sanctions?  And how far have they come
towards convergence on the U.S. view regarding the sanctions (inaudible)
applied?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks for the question.  You know,
India is our friend; India is our partner.  And we share — we share
interests, and we share core principles that are at stake in this
conflict.  And we’ve had extensive discussions about ways to further our
cooperation on global food security, on global energy supplies, and
certainly in terms of recognizing that Putin’s brutality affects all of
us.  And the geopolitical implications of Russia’s actions do have
ripple effects. 

So, we — India is not part of the G7.  It’s a guest country this year. 
So, we will certainly collaborate with India and share the details of
our measures.  And, of course, we remain hopeful that we can have
alignment to the maximum extent possible.  Thank you.

Q    Hi, thanks.  I’m just wondering if you could clarify on Putin’s
adult children.  Are you sanctioning his two daughters, Mariya Putina
and Katerina Tikhonova?  Or are there any additional children that you
have identified that you are applying sanctions to?  Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, you’ve got it right.  Those are
the two. 

Q    Hi there.  Thank you for taking our questions.  Can you speak a
little bit more about these full blocking sanctions come on the major
SOEs that are coming tomorrow?  Is that, sort of like, all major SOEs or
a certain major?  Are there particular sectors?  Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Sure.  So these are not all Russian
SOEs.  And they will not be energy — they will not be SOEs in the energy
sector.  You’ll hear more from Treasury tomorrow on the specific
institutions, and that will likely come later today or tomorrow.

Q    Hi there.  Thanks for doing this call.  I wanted to just ask if you
could say whether you saw, currently, that China is complying with
sanctions that you’ve implemented so far, and what the thinking is on
applying secondary sanctions to Chinese or other foreign companies or
entities.  Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Sure.  So as I think everyone is aware,
we’ve had a series of private consultations, going up to the highest
level of our government and China’s government, about the importance of
respecting the sanctions regime that we’ve put in place as well as the
export controls.  And I don’t have anything new to tell you, other than
we’ve been really clear about the consequences of any efforts to
circumvent or backfill those sanctions. 

And you’ve seen, I think, in the public rhetoric from China that they’re
not, openly at least, indicating any intention to do so.  And we’re
watching that very closely.

Q    Thank you very much for doing this call.  Can you tell us whether
you think these sanctions and all the impact on Russia will actually
stop Russia’s military advances given the projection to Congress
yesterday from General Milley that this war could last years?  And
Vladimir Putin — it doesn’t seem signs of slowing down.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I think — yeah, thanks, Andrea.  I
mean, I’ll say it this way: I mean, sanctions are never a standalone
solution.  We don’t impose these costs as an end to themselves.  And,
you know, in our judgment, sanctions work when they’re embedded in a
broader strategy, and you referenced this.  It has to — these sanctions
have to work alongside doing all we can to support Ukraine’s fight for
freedom.  They work alongside doing all we can to help the rest of the
world deal with the spillovers of Putin’s war. 

And that’s why we’ve surged supplies of energy.  It’s why we’re coming
together to welcome the millions of refugees that are fleeing Ukraine,
and trying to come together with the rest of the world to deal with the
disruptions to global food supply. 

And if we execute on all those fronts — and that’s our that’s our plan;
that’s our strategy — that’s how we create staying power in these
sanctions.  And staying the course is how we think we’ll create leverage
for the outcome that we’re seeking. 

And I’ll — let me add one more point on the sanctions impact: I mean,
even an autocrat like Putin has a social contract with the Russian
people.  He took away their freedom in exchange for promising
stability.  And so he’s not giving them stability at the moment; he’s
giving them instability and insecurity, and he’s imposing that upon
them.  And at some point, that ought to matter to any leader if only
because they care about staying in power. 

So the question really is not so much, “What can we do and when will
that have an effect?”  I think it’s, “What’s the endgame here for
Putin?  What’s he playing for?” 

This is very clearly becoming a failure for him.  And at some point, he
will have to recognize that reality.

Q    Hello.  Hi, \[senior administration official\].  Thank you for
doing this.  Earlier, you mentioned that you have worked with senior
Chinese officials regarding those sanctions.  Do you also find that
China is also learning how United States and allies are using the
financial sanctions right now and possibly find ways to counter those
measures in the future if, one day, China has to face similar
sanctions?  Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  No, I think, you know, China has become
— has gained an economic prominence by engaging with the world, by
integrating itself with the global economy and with the global financial
system.

And the United States — because of the quality of our financial markets,
the transparency of our regulations, the effectiveness of our corporate
governance, and really the soft power that we’ve enjoyed for decades and
decades — is the central player in the global financial system.  And so
we will remain integrated with China as long as it continues to engage
with the world. 

And so, you know, that’s the way in which we have leverage with
financial sanctions.  And we don’t use that leverage in an arbitrary
way.  We use that leverage when we’re defending a core international
principle.  And that’s certainly what’s going on in the crisis in
Ukraine. 

We’re using these sanctions because we want to demonstrate resolve and
say, “You can’t redraw your neighbors’ borders at the barrel of a gun. 
You can’t subjugate their free will.  Countries have the right to set
their own course and choose their own destiny.”  That’s — those are the
conditions in which we use these sanctions.  We know how severe they
are.  And our message to China is: We hope you respect those
principles. 

Q    Hi.  Thank you guys for doing the call.  I just had a more, sort
of, technical question.  Could you clarify specifically the sanctions
that are being placed on Sberbank: how those differ or what is being
done, compared to what had already been put on them earlier this month? 
I’m just unclear on that.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Sure.  Yeah.  And thanks for asking
that, because previously we had imposed what are called “dollar-clearing
prohibition” with Sberbank, which meant that any transactions that
Sberbank tried to undertake with a U.S. financial institution using
dollars would not be allowed. 

So now, this is a full blocking sanction, which means that any
transaction in any currency with a U.S. person or a U.S. institution is
prohibited, and also any of Sberbank’s assets that touch the U.S.
financial system are now frozen. 

So, it’s a — it’s a much more severe action.  This is the most severe
action we can take in terms of financial measures. 

And in practice, the history of sanctions show us that when we impose a
full blocking sanction on a financial institution, that the rest of the
world, even in other jurisdictions that have not yet imposed a full
blocking sanction, they respect the regime and so there tends to be a
multiplier effect.  That’s what we expect to happen here as well.

Q    Okay, thank you.  And to be clear, there’s no carve-outs there?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I’m sorry, I should have said there is
a carve-out for energy, yes.  Just like the other full block — full
blocking sanctions.  It’s the same carve-out.

Q    Hi, thanks very much.  I was wondering if there has been discussion
of the downside effects of so detaching the Russians from the global
economy that their investment in it over the long term basically becomes
so diminished that they become more interested in disruptive action than
any hope that they would get back in?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Well, I mean, I would say this, David —
is the sanctions are designed to be quite flexible.  We can escalate and
we can de-escalate depending on the circumstances. 

And — but really, the way to think of it, if you want a metaphor, it’s a
negative feedback loop.  So, we deny capital, we deny technology, we
deny talent that can flow into Russia.  And the combination of the steps
that we’re taking create this downward spiral that accelerates the more
that Putin escalates.

And if he were to change course, someday, that negative feedback loop
would slow and could possibly reverse.  None of this is permanent.  The
only aspect that’s permanent are the lives that he’s taken away, and he
can never bring those back. 

But the sanctions — the sanctions are designed to be able to respond to
the conditions on the ground and to create leverage for the outcome we
seek.

Q    Hi.  Thanks again for doing the call.  About the sanctions against
Putin’s daughters: Are these symbolic sanctions or do you have reason to
believe that they do have assets either in the U.S. or in Europe?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Well, we have reason to believe that
Putin and many of his cronies and the oligarchs hide their wealth, hide
their assets with family members, that place their assets and their
wealth in the U.S. financial system but also many other parts of the
world.  And that’s why the coordination — the coordinated effort to
freeze their assets and seize their physical luxury goods — their cars,
their yachts, their homes, et cetera — that’s why it’s so important that
we act together.

But to answer your question directly: Yes, we believe that many of
Putin’s assets are hidden with family members, and that’s why we’re
targeting them.

Q    Thank you.

MODERATOR:  So, thanks, everyone, for joining. 

Given the call is ending a little bit earlier than 10:30, we’re going to
go ahead and lift the embargo on the factsheet as well.  So, now that
the call has ended, you know, both the content of the call and the
factsheet embargo will lift.

And as a reminder, this call was on background, attributable to a
“senior administration official.”  So, thanks, everyone, for joining.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thank you.

10:25 A.M. EDT
