---
date: '2022-04-13'
modified_time: 2022-04-13 22:39:24-04:00
published_time: 2022-04-13 22:39:23-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/04/13/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-april-13-2022/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Jen\_Psaki, April 13,\_2022"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

3:50 P.M. EDT   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Hi, everyone.  Okay.  A lot going on today.  All right, a
couple of toppers to kick us off.  Tomorrow, the President will travel
to Greensboro, North Carolina, where he will visit North Carolina
Agricultural and Technical State University for a tour of their new
Harold L. Martin Sr. Engineering Research & Innovation Complex, which
opened in February.   
  
North Carolina A- — A&T is the largest historically black college and
university in the nation, and the largest producer of African American
undergraduates in engineering and with master’s degrees in
mathematics/statistics and engineering in the country.  
  
N.C. A&T is also the alma mater of EPA Administrator Michael Regan and
two of the President’s recent appointees to his Board of Advisors on
HBCUs.   
  
Since January of 2021, President Biden and members of his Cabinet have
prioritized visits to HBCU campuses across the nation, and the
Biden-Harris administration has invested an unprecedented $5.8 billion
in these critical institutions with more to come this year.  
  
The President will meet faculty and students who are studying robotics
and cybersecurity, and he’ll talk about how investments in the
Bipartisan Innovation Act can help build on the remarkable progress
we’ve made over the last year in getting our economy back on its feet
through the American Rescue Plan and in laying a foundation for an
economic renewal that’s made in America through the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law.  
  
Throughout his visit, the President will highlight the domestic
manufacturing strategy and regional investments in areas such as
advanced manufacturing and clean technology.  He will discuss how
Greensboro’s economy and educational institutions are reinventing
themselves for legacy industries to 21st century industries and will
benefit from the passage of the Bipartisan Innovation Act, which will
make historic investments in R&D, innovation, and manufacturing in
America.   
  
That means stronger supply chains, more manufacturing jobs, and lower
prices for consumers as we break up the bottlenecks, like semiconductor
chips, that have driven inflation over the last year.   
  
Four hundred and seventy-three thousand manufacturing jobs have already
been created on the President’s watch.  He wants to build on that
success by passing the Bipartisan Innovation Act to create — to create
more good-paying jobs and lower prices for working families.  
  
I also wanted to note that today, during Black Maternal Health Week,
Vice President Kamala Harris will convene a first-ever White House
meeting with Cabinet Secretaries and agency leaders to discuss the
administration’s whole-of-government approach to reducing maternal
mortality and morbidity.   
  
In December of 2021, Vice President Harris announced a historic call to
action to improve health outcomes for parents and their young children
in the United States.  Today, the administration is making additional
announcements as part of our continued response to that call to
action.   
  
The announcements include 11 states and the District of Columbia working
with Centers — the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services to expand
Medicaid coverage, through the American Rescue Plan, from 2 months to 12
months following a pregnancy.  
  
CMS’s “birthing-friendly” hospital designation, which would assist
families in choosing hospitals that have demonstrated a commitment to
maternal health, will go live with initial quality measures in fall of
2022.   
  
Final piece, and then we’ll get to your questions.  Since before taking
office, the President and his team has — have made finding highly
qualified judicial nominees who are devoted to the rule of law and our
Constitution, and who ensure that the federal bench more fully
represents our country — a critical priority.  
  
Last week, you all saw the Senate’s bipartisan, history-making
confirmation of soon-to-be-Justice Ketanji Brown Jackson — a judge with
the strongest credentials imaginable — with the backing of law
enforcement and many of the most respected retired conservative jurists
in the country, and who earned some of the strongest public support of
any Supreme Court nominee in recent American history, tying Chief
Justice Roberts during his confirmation.  
  
This morning, the President announced his first round of judicial
nominees since Judge Jackson’s confirmation, bringing the total number
of nominees he has put forward, including Judge Jackson, to 90.  
  
A number of these picks, if confirmed, would also make history.  
  
For example, Judge John Lee would be the first Asian American judge to
ever serve on the 7th Circuit Court of Appeals.  And Nancy Maldonado
would be the first Hispanic woman to serve as a federal judge in
Illinois.  
  
The President is very proud of all of the nominees he has announced in
office — 72 percent of whom are women, 30 percent of whom are Black, 21
percent of whom are Hispanic, and 19 percent of whom are from the AAPI —
-PI community.   
  
With that, let’s get to your questions.  I’ll promise to reduce the
toppers next time.  That’s my deal.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks.  On the President calling what’s going on in Ukraine
“genocide,” what changed?  What did the President see, what did he hear
in the days between saying they were simply “war crimes” and then this
is actual “genocide”?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, he called it a “genocide” yesterday — not once, but
twice, actually — because, as he said yesterday, it’s becoming clearer
and clearer each day that it is Putin’s aim to wipe out the idea of
being Ukrainian; that we’re seeing greater brutality increase day by
day.  
  
And some of that, I will note, is because we’re seeing — we’re gaining
greater access to areas, we have more intelligence on what’s happening
in areas, leaders are speaking out more about it, and, frankly, there is
also reporting about what is happening on the ground.  
  
But to give you some specifics, I would not that, of course, what we saw
in Bucha was not an anomaly, as Ukrainian forces searched towns that
Russian forces previously occupied, as they’re pulling back and moving
to the east.  
  
The mayor and the City Council of Mariupol are reporting high numbers of
civilian casualties.  The train station attack just over the weekend
killed more than 50 civilians.  The U.N. has recently recorded 4,450
civilian casualties, all just since February 24th.  And the real number,
we believe, is likely much higher.   
  
The OSCE’s Moscow Mechanism report today found clear patterns of
international humanitarian law violations by Russian forces, by
targeting hospitals, schools, residential buildings, and other locations
where civilians are sheltering.  
  
And we’ve also seen, I think, from the beginning of this, Kremlin
rhetoric and Russian media deny the national identity of the Ukrainian
people.  And the Kremlin has launched a full-scale assault on the
sovereignty of the Ukrainian state and its people.   
  
So the President was speaking to what we all see, what he feels is clear
as day in terms of the atrocities happening on the ground.  As he also
noted yesterday, of course there will be a legal process that plays out
in the courtroom, but he was speaking to what he see — has seen on the
ground and what we’ve all seen in terms of the atrocities on the
ground.  
  
Q    And as a follow-up: Might he call on Germany to impose a natural
gas ban, given that — given what you said?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, we’ve been in ongoing discussions with our European
partners, including Germany, but it is a decision they will make, and
the President certainly supports their right to do exactly that.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  A question about the President’s conversation today
—  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  
  
Q    — with President Zelenskyy.  Did they talk about possibly moving
U.S. diplomats back into Ukraine?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have more details of that.  I will tell you that our
objective is to do exactly that.  And we, of course, assess, in a
process that’s led by the State Department, security considerations, who
the right personnel to go back first would be.  And that certainly is
something the President would like to see.  But I’m not aware of him
providing an update on that today.  
  
Q    Also, President Zelenskyy tweeted that he and the President —
President Biden — agreed to, quote, “enhanced sanctions.”  What does
that mean?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Additional sanctions.  The consideration of additional
sanctions.  And that’s certainly something we’re continuing to consider,
and the President conveyed that as well.  
  
Q    And then back to the question about genocide.  Last week, Jake
Sullivan was here at this podium, and he said, “We have not yet seen a
level of systematic deprivation of life of the Ukrainian people to rise
to the level of genocide.”   
  
So is it now the White House position that you have actually seen a
level of systematic deprivation that would qualify as genocide?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, the President spoke to that twice yesterday.  And, of
course, he’s the President, and we are here to implement his views.  
  
Q    And then, finally, has the U.S. or any nongovernmental partner had
any ability to assess with any greater certainty that any kind of
chemical or nerve agent was actually used in Mariupol?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We don’t have any update on that at this point in time.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, Jen.  Following up on Nancy’s question, did anyone know
that the President was going to use the word “genocide” in his remarks? 
It seemed like a passing remark — or a passing reference in a broader
conversation about inflation.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, it’s — he’s the President of the United States and the
leader of the free world, and he is allowed to make his views known at
any point he would like.  
  
Q    So it was not scripted?  That wasn’t pre-planned?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Again, I think we shouldn’t misunderstand who he is and
where he stands on the totem pole, which is at the top.  
  
Q    Okay.  And then, on the call today, can you clarify one other
thing?  There’s been some reporting that the helicopters were not going
to be part of the package, and then they went back into the package. 
Can you clarify if the call with Zelenskyy was the item — was the thing
that put those helicopters back in the package?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  So, on this — I know there’s been some different reporting
and confusion, so I appreciate you asking.  We are, of course, in
constant conversations with the Ukrainians, as is evidenced by this
morning and the two-hour call that Chairman Milley and Jake Sullivan had
last week on what they need and how we can be helpful.  
  
It was unclear for a while, from their side, whether they wanted
additional helicopters.  We’ve provided them helicopters in the past. 
And today they made clear they wanted them in, so we said, “Great. 
There are helicopters in the package.”  
  
Q    And then, the first bus of migrants arrived in D.C. today.  Texas
Governor Greg Abbott making good on his promise to send migrants to the
President’s doorstep.  I think you previously called it a publicity
stunt.  Is that still the view of the White House?  Can you give us any
reaction to this busload of migrants arriving here in D.C.?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, these are all migrants who have been processed by CBP
and are free to travel.  So, it’s nice the state of Texas is helping
them get to their final destination as they await in — their outcome of
their immigration proceedings.  And they’re all in immigration
proceedings.  
  
Q    And then, on your statement this morning, you had mentioned in that
statement that the truck inspections have led — that Governor Abbott has
been conducting — have led to disruptions for the food and automobile
supply chains and rising prices for families.  So is the White House
blaming Greg Abbott for inflation?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think we’re trying to state the facts of what his —
another political stunt that we’re seeing happen and the impact of
it.   
  
And what we’re seeing is: Right now, factually, there’s over $1 million
in trade crossing over the U.S.-Mexico border every minute.  These
actions are impacting people’s jobs and the livelihoods of hardworking
families in Texas and across the country.  That’s not a political
statement; that’s a statement of fact.  
  
I’d also note that what we’re seeing with these unnecessary inspections
of trucks transpor- — transiting ports of entry between Texas and Mexico
are significant delays, which are resulting in a drop in commercial
traffic of up to 60 to 70 percent in some ports.  And that is
significantly impacting the local and regional supply chains to the
point that trade associations, officials, and businesses are calling for
the Texas governor to reverse their self- — this self-inflicted
gridlock.  
  
I’d also note that CBP officers are very good at their jobs, and Texas
DPS does not need to replace CBP at the southern border.  CBP has
conducted a record number of drug seizures, with more than 900,000
pounds of narcotics seized just in FY 2021.  
  
So the economic impact here — something that people of all political
stripes are calling for a reversal of — is something that we think is
significant and we felt should be shouted out.  
  
Q    And then, last one, does the White House still view inflation as
transitory?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  That is the view of the Federal Reserve and outside
economists, and they all continue to project it will come down this
year.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Yeah, Jen.  Just to make sure we’re clear, first of all, on the
question of genocide: So I know sometimes, in the past, the President
has expressed his own opinion about issues; it’s not necessarily been
U.S. policy.  So is it the U.S. policy that genocide is being committed
in Ukraine, or was that the President’s personal beliefs?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, there is a legal process, as the President said
yesterday, that will be — will g- — will be undergone and will happen. 
And he wasn’t getting ahead of that, he was speaking to what we feel —
he feels we see on the ground.    
  
But regardless of what you call it, what our objective now, as is
evidenced by the enormous package of military assistance we put out
today, is continue to help and assist the Ukrainians in this war and —
one where we see atrocities happening every single day.  
  
Q    Is there any concern, though, that the President’s views on things
differing from what the actual policy is once it’s gone through all
those legal channels, that that could be confusing to world leaders when
the President is saying one thing but the policy isn’t necessarily there
yet?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, how would it impact that — the outcome?  
  
Q    Yeah, well, I mean, once there’s a genocide being committed in a
region, other countries would treat that in a certain way, if that’s —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  In what way?  
  
Q    — indeed the policy.  
  
I guess, as far as the way leaders would try — you know, decide how
they’re going to respond to that.  So — and, I don’t know — maybe you
feel–  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, typically, a consideration of genocide takes years.  I
mean, look at — there are many past examples.  And if you look at even
Uyghurs — right? — and what we’ve called out happening in China, that
took many years to call out.  That hasn’t meant we’ve provided a range
of military assistance.  What we are doing now is we’re trying to prop
up and support Ukrainian leaders.  There are other — and the military,
of course.  
  
There are other leaders who have — in the world who have said something
similar to what the President has said recently, because they’re also
seeing the atrocities on the ground.  I don’t — I don’t know that it’s
changed policy or confused anyone.  I think they’re speaking all from
what they are seeing with their own eyes as we look at the visuals of
what’s happening on the ground.  
  
Q    All right.  So you don’t (inaudible) there.   
  
And then just a quick follow-up from a topic from last week.  Following
the President’s exposure to House Speaker Pelosi, did he ever receive
any post-exposure prophylaxis, like monoclonal antibodies, which are
approved from FDA in certain circumstances for people who’ve been
exposed to COVID?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  If you’re immunocompromised?  
  
Q    Immunocompromised, people at high risk.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  He’s not.  
  
Q    Yeah.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  He’s not immunocompromised, so no.   
  
Q    Right.  So he — okay.  So he did not receive any — any treatments
after the exposure?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  He’s not immunocompromised.   
  
Q    Okay.    
  
MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, Jen.  Earlier today, Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen
said countries that are currently sitting on the fence amid Russia’s
invasion of Ukraine risk facing isolation from the global economy.  Were
those comments aimed at any specific countries?  And can you speak to
whether the administration is considering secondary sanctions on
countries that do not comply with the restrictions the administration
has imposed on Russia thus far?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think, certainly, we consider a range of options if
countries don’t abide by the sanctions we’ve implemented.  Right?  And
that is something we certainly will continue to watch.   
  
I don’t have any projections of that, fortunately, at this point in
time.  
  
I think she was speaking to what we’ve said from here a number of times,
which is that in this moment — where you have a dictator brutally
invading another country, targeting civilians — you have to contemplate
what side of history you want to be on.  And that is true for any
country around the world.   
  
Q    And then a follow-up on COVID.  Is the administration concerned
that COVID data is not picking up many cases that are confirmed by home
tests, especially amid this uptick caused by the BA.2 variant?  And will
there be a public education campaign to push people to report their
positive results?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, we do certainly encouraged people in many ways to — to
share test results and contact their doctor because they may be eligible
for Paxlovid or other therapeutics if they test positive.  We also know
that — that a number of people who test positive are at home — just
recovering at home.   
  
So we’re certainly encouraging people to do that.  But what I would note
is that what the CDC continues to track very closely are cases that are
reported and they — where they’ve seen severe disease, hospitalizations,
and deaths.  And those reports are coming directly from hospitals and
states.  And what we’re seeing from those reports are the lowest levels
of hospitalization since the start of the pandemic.   
  
So we certainly encourage people to report.  Anyone who lives in this
area knows — or if you have apps on your phone, you often get apps about
— or alerts about close contacts or if you’ve been near people, or calls
from, you know, your county health — health people if there are reports
in your neighborhood.   
  
We encourage people to do that.  But our focus, as the CDC has conveyed
over the course of last week is — is really on severe disease,
hospitalizations, and deaths — what we can do to reduce those.   
  
We’re fortunately seeing lower numbers, even as we’ve seen an uptick in
cases.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks.  I spoke to former NSC Chairman Robert O’Brien on Friday. 
He says most Republicans and most, if not all, Democrats are on board
with the current Russian sanctions.  However, he had two criticisms.  He
said that, one, planes should be provided to Ukraine and, two, that full
sanctions should be implemented against Russia and Putin immediately. 
Your thoughts in response to that?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have a direct response to Robert O’Brien.  What I
can tell you — or — and I’m sure he’s aware of this — or maybe not, I
don’t know — that we have — we have implemented a more significant and
crippling sanctions package — financial sanctions package than has ever
been done on any large economy in history.  So I would I would certainly
point to that.

In terms of his view — as a private citizen, I guess, at this point — on
planes, we’ve spoken to that in the past: If other countries want to
provide planes, we’re not standing in the way.  We’ve made an assessment
about what the Ukrainian military needs and what they are trained on to
use and what would be effective in — in the transport of it.  That
continues to be our assessment.  

Q    I notice that the helicopters were on the table.  Are U.S.
warplanes provided to Ukraine or even the MiGs from Warsaw, from Poland
— are they off the table completely?

MS. PSAKI:  We’ve never said they were off the table.  What we’ve said
is that we had concerns about the Polish proposal about how they would
be transported.  And our military made an assessment about that — a risk
assessment — about the benefits and the risk.  That assessment hasn’t
changed.  We’ve provided helicopters in the past.

Q    So is there any way —

MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead.

Q    — around that?  Is there — are —

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have any more updates for you.

Go ahead.

Q    One more question on Ukraine.  After President Biden said he does
believe that Russia is committing genocide, the French President came
out and said that — he warned against an escalation of rhetoric.  Do you
have any response to Macron?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t.

Q    Okay.

On COVID and this extension — this two-week extension of masking on
public transportation: Can you help us understand some of the science
behind this?  Why two weeks?

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.

Q    What difference can be made in such a short amount of time?

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Well, this assessment was made — I know there was a
statement that was put out by the CDC and certainly I would point you to
that, but as they’re continuing to monitor the spread of — of BA.2 — the
BA.2 subvariant, which now makes up more than 85 percent of U.S. cases,
what they’re looking at is that since early April, there’s been an
increase in the seven-day moving average of the cases in the United
States.   
  
So what they’re trying to do is give a little bit more time to assess
its potential impact the rise of the cases have on severe disease,
including hospitalizations and deaths and the healthcare system
capacity.

And their assessment, from a medical standpoint — the data —
data-gathering standpoint is that two weeks would give them some
additional time to do that.   
  
Now, at the end of that two weeks, they can determine what’s next after
that.  But — but that — that assessment they made so that they could
gather more data of the rise of the subvariant.

Q    So should we then expect and should the public expect, sort of,
more of these kind of short-term extensions?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  It’s a good question.  I just don’t want to make a
prediction of that.  I think it depends on how they evaluate and assess
the — the data over the course of the next two weeks.  And they’re
trying to provide regular, transparent updates to the public.  

Q    And it does seem that the President has been tested every two or
three days for the past week or so.  Any update on whether he was tested
today?

MS. PSAKI:  I can check and see if there’s an update and get that to all
of you.  He does have a regular testing cadence, of course, that is
determined by his doctor, and it’s typically a couple times a week.  

Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you.  A quick follow-up on the issue of the genocide
designation.  I think you just said that a legal process would be
undergone, but I think the State Department spokesman, Ned Price, just
said that it was — the U.S. government is contributing to the Ukrainian
Prosecutor General’s Offices inquiry into whether Russia has committed
genocide in Ukraine but had not initiated its own.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  So I appreciate your opportunity to rephrase: It would
require a legal process.  As the President said yesterday, he’s not
trying to prejudge a legal process.  He was speaking to the atrocities
he saw on the ground.  
  
Q    And why not?  Why wouldn’t the U.S. initiate its own, you know,
inquiry into that issue?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  It’s a determination, again, made by the State Department
and others who are — lead these efforts.  And, certainly, it’s one we
will continue to assess.  
  
Q    Okay.  And just a quick one on the issue with Greg Abbott.  Is the
White House planning to do anything to alleviate the supply chain
disruptions or pressure him into rescinding the order?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, obviously, our preference is that he rescinds the
order.  And it’s not just our preference; it’s the preference of a
number of trade associations, officials, business leaders, and others
who are seeing a direct impact on commerce and on the economy and on
business in the community.  
  
So, beyond that, I think our effort today was to highlight what the
impact is and how this is not a step that is — that is an immigration
policy or addressing root issues at the border.  This is one that is
hurting — is having a negative economic impact on people who work and
live in that community and the over $1 million in trade crossing over
the border every day.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Jen, three times now the President has made comments about the war
that the White House or he himself subsequently said did not reflect
U.S. policy or a legal determination when he said Putin is a “war
criminal,” when he said that Putin “cannot remain in power,” and, of
course, his comment about this being “genocide” in Ukraine.  Does this
not send a signal to the world that there kind of is an asterisk any —
next to anything that the President says?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, when the President ran, he promised the American
people he would “shoot from the shoulder” — is his phrase that he often
uses — and “tell it to them straight.”  And his comments yesterday — not
once, but twice — and on war crimes are an exact reflection of that.    
  
I don’t think anybody is confused about the atrocities of what we’re
seeing on the ground, the horrors of what we’re seeing on the ground. 
And different leaders around the world describe it in different ways. 
But what we’re — there is — what is unquestionable is what we’re seeing
is horrific: the targeting of civilians, of hospitals, of — of even
kids.  And it — the President was calling it like he see — like he sees
it, and that’s what he does.   
  
Q    If I could ask it this way: Do you think that there is any danger
to global leaders — including Vladimir Putin to Olaf Scholz — if they
can’t be sure when they hear words coming out of the President’s mouth
whether he is stating a personal opinion versus making a statement about
U.S. policy?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Do you have an example of somebody who’s confused, a
leader?  
  
Q    Well, I think my colleague brought up Emmanuel Macron saying —
responding and saying, you know, the use of the language, “genocide,” he
sees as rhetorical escalation.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  President Putin is brutally targeting civilians and
brutalizing a country right now.  So, the President — this President —
was speaking to what those atrocities are and what he’s seeing on the
ground.    
  
A number of other leaders have done exactly that.  It does not change
policy in the sense that we’ve seen these atrocities, unfortunately, for
weeks now.  And we’re going to see more as Russia pulls back from parts
of the country.   
  
So what our focus will continue to be and the focus of leaders around
the world is to continue to escalate our military assistance, our
security assistance, as we did today in providing a range of — of
weapons that we have not even provided to them in the past.  And that, I
think, is what the Ukrainians are most focused on and I think the global
community is most focused on: how we’re responding and how we’re helping
them.  
  
Q    Could you explain — so, if the U.S. were to legally determine that
what is happening in Ukraine is genocide, what would the sort of legal
obligations from the United States be at that point?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  It doesn’t change a policy.  There would be an international
effort to explore that and an investigation at an international level. 
Those often take many years.  
  
Q    And nothing has changed in terms of the President not wanting to
send in U.S. troops to Ukraine?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Correct.  Nothing has changed.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you so much, Jen.  Two questions; one on policing.  In Grand
Rapids, Michigan, police just released the tape of a individual who was
shot and killed by police.  I understand that just happened while you
were on the podium —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — so you have not seen it yet, but I wanted to see if you believe
the President will watch that.  And if the — the  NAACP is now calling
on the President to sign the policing executive order.  Is there any
update that you can provide about that?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, on the last piece, the President absolutely wants to
do exactly that.  And it has to go through — it just takes some time to
go through a process.  But his intention is absolutely to sign a
policing executive order into — into law — or not into law, but sign it
with his authorities.  
  
I would note that what we have tried to do from this administration,
even while there was a stall in bipartisan action in the Senate, is to
take actions we can with the authorities we have, like the Department of
Justice banning chokeholds or other steps they’ve taken with authority
they have to address it at the federal level.  
  
I have — I’ve not seen the video — thank you for prefacing that.  I’ve
not seen it yet.  I don’t have a prediction of if the President will
watch it.  I assume it is something that will be covered on television,
and I can check and see if there’s an update for you.  
  
Q    And then I just had a follow-up to MJ’s question.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  
  
Q    When you’re talking about the President sort of — you know, and I
should preface this by saying that, you know, the world and we are all
still getting to know this President; he has been around for a while,
but we have not seen him in the role as President for a while.  And so,
can you tell us when should we interpret his words as his reaction
versus U.S. policy?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  He’s the President of the United States.  He speaks for the
United States.  There’s also a legal review and process that is
important to take place in the case of genocide or war crimes.  So,
we’re trying to provide as much information on that as possible.  
  
Q    But is there — are there any, like, tips that you can provide or
any sort of, you know, any — any, like, giveaways that this is the
President talking about what he’s seeing and his reaction as a human
versus, you know, “The United States government is now going to do X, Y,
and Z, because I have determined this is…” —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think what’s important to understand is that
determination, or whatever you label it, doesn’t change policy.  It
change — what we are doing right now, in terms of the amount of security
assistance we’re providing, including the new package today, goes far
beyond what we have done in many cases where there — we have called it
genocide.   
  
So, there is not a direct trigger in that way.  And if that’s helpful
clarity for anybody, I’m happy to provide it.  But he is the President. 
He speaks for what our policy is.  And I would take his words for
exactly what they are.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Jen, earlier today, Ukraine’s President, Zelenskyy, said after the
call that they agreed to, quote, “enhance sanctions.”   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Mm-hmm.  
  
Q    That’s something that did not come up thus far from you or from the
President.  Can you give us any guidance on what those enhanced
sanctions mean?  What does that mean?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  So, someone may have asked this earlier, which is, of
course, fine.  What he was referring to and the President agreed: Yes,
we’re continuing to consider a range of sanctions, a range of ways to
hold President Putin, his circle, the economy — you know, the financial
sector accountable.  There will be more to come.  But that was part of
their discussion today, yes.  
  
Q    But there’s no new specific sanctions you are all —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Not today.  No, they just had the discussion.  There wasn’t
— there’s no new announcement today.  
  
Q    Okay.  And then are there any — or is there — has there been any
increased conversation at all, in terms of doing anything around the
carve-out, specifically on sanctions on energy?  (Inaudible) continued
carve-outs on energy? (Inaudible.)  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We haven’t taken anything off the table, as you know, but I
don’t have any update on that at this point in time.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  Just one on Texas.  Right before you came out,
Governor Abbott announced that they’re halting some inspections on that
side of the border and said there’ll be some inspections conducted in
Nuevo Laredo — the Mexican state that borders Texas.  I don’t know if
you had seen that or wanted to have a chance to respond to it.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Not yet.  And I don’t have an assessment on the impact.  But
I think the overarching view from not just us but, again, trade
associations, officials, and businesses is that these are unnecessary
inspections and that they are impacting the economy.   
  
I don’t — I don’t know how to — I can’t gauge from here what the
economic impact will be, but I’m happy to take a look at that or have
our economic team take a look at that.  Sure.  
  
Go ahead, Patsy.  
  
Q    Thank you, Jen.  So, I’m going to try again on the G20.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Okay.  
  
Q    President Biden has indicated that he wants Russia to not
participate in the G20.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    We know that.  We also know that he said that the forum cannot be
business as usual.  However, I’m hearing from G20 diplomatic sources
that they feel that it’s unfair to have the issue of Ukraine really
overtake the forum, which has an economic mandate.  And it does have
economic goals, including pandemic recovery, sustainable economic
development, and so on.   
  
So my question is: Is the U.S. still willing to work with G20 partners
to ensure that these goals are met and that the summit is salvaged?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, the summit is in seven months.  Am I correct?   
  
Q    Yes.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Okay, so that’s a lifetime.  (Laughter.)  
  
Q    But, I mean, it takes a lot of — it takes a lot of months for the
host country to prepare.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  That is a lifetime in diplomacy, though, I will say.  And it
is not uncommon for events that are impacting the global community, as
Ukraine is and the Russian invasion of Ukraine, to play a central role
at international forum.  And their economic recovery and rebuilding and
reconstruction is going to be something that the global community is
going to be involved in and address.  
  
But I don’t — the agenda has not been set.  I don’t — I don’t think we
know at this point how dominant Ukraine will be or not be.  It depends,
I’m sure, on where things stand at that point in the world.  
  
Q    Well, the agenda hasn’t been set, but the presidency has already
set these three main pillars, and they have nothing to do with Ukraine
or Russia.  So, I guess, what would be the administration’s response to
these criticism that say inviting — sorry — disinviting Russia or
including Ukraine as an observer really just disrupts the summit’s
agenda, as well as divide or create a rift among members?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I think I would say that Russia and President Putin have
shown himself and themselves to be a pariah in the world.  And the
President’s view is that he has no place at international forum.   
  
The inclusion of Ukraine does not mean it’s only about the battle on the
ground.  We’re going to need to rebuild Ukraine.  Ukraine is a — has
just applied for EU membership.  I’m not — I can’t determine for you
what that will look like in the final stages, but there’s a lot of
topics that can be discussed.  And Russia’s actions and President
Putin’s actions make them a country and a leader that the President does
not feel should participate in an international fora.  
  
Q    Thank you.  And one question on China.  So, U.S. Trade
Representative Ambassador Tai said in a recent interview that, in the
long term, the China trade challenge will actually “eclipse” the crisis
in Russia today.    
  
So, is the administration concerned that the war in Ukraine takes away
your focus and resources to meet the challenges from China?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We’re not.  I mean, how the U.S. government is set up, as
you know, is that we have experts and — in every area — right? — working
simultaneously at the same time.  
  
Yes, the war in Ukraine is a big issue that we’re very focused on, this
President is very focused on.  There is an entire team focused on Asia
at the State Department, the Defense Department, the national security
team, every single day, that is not involved in that war.  So I would —
can assure you and assure everybody that we are able to walk, chew gum,
and do multiple layers of diplomacy at the same time.  
  
(Cellphone disruption.)  
  
Q    Thank you so much, Jen.  On the genocide in —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Is that a GPS direction?  I appreci- — (laughter).  Is it?  
  
Q    I’m so sorry.    
  
MS. PSAKI:  It’s okay.  I need directions everywhere, so I appreciate
it.  
  
Go ahead.    
  
Q    On the genocide, again, the — you know, European diplomats and
officials we’re talking to are saying this escalation of words has an
impact because — (cellphone disruption) — because it — it makes the
prospect of future peace talks with Vladimir Putin very difficult or
impossible.   
  
So is the President, by using such words, conveying the idea that there
will never be any possible talks with Putin, and that the only way the
war can end is, you know, military capitulation?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  No.  And I would just dispute that argument or that notion. 
Peace talks is something we’re always going to support — the President,
the Secretary of State, our National Security Advisor are always going
to support.  And we support the Ukrainians in that effort.   
  
I think it’s unlikely that — that President Putin is moved — is going to
decide not to participate in peace talks because of some words that came
out of the mouth of the President of the United States.  He’s going to
decide to participate in them if it’s in his interests.   
  
Go ahead.   
  
Q    Yeah, the producer price index on inflation came out at the highest
level that they’ve had in the history of recording these events.  This
is the price that companies are paying for the materials that they need
to make the stuff that they sell, right?  So, with the last two days —
the inflation reports — does the White House believe that inflation has
now peaked and we’re coming back down?  Or because of these reports, do
you think we’re going to see even worse numbers in the future?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We’ll let the Federal Reserve make projections about that;
they have the purview over those projections.   
  
What I will say is that while we — and we talked about this over the
last couple of days, as it relates to the CPI data — consumer price
index — as opposed to producer price index, for others — and what we
saw: While energy accounted for 70 percent of the monthly inflation in
March on CPI data, it counted for a substantial portion of PPI inflation
as well.   
  
And PPI measures things like the cost of wood, metal, plastics — kind
of, materials like that.  So it’s not necessarily — it’s not a surprise
to us that energy is having an impact — is a driver of these
numbers.    
  
Obviously, what we’re trying to do is mitigate the energy impact and
take steps to do exactly that: release from the Strategic Petroleum
Reserve and other actions working to get more supply out into the
marketplace.    
  
But, you know, again, projections of a — of when we’re hitting a high
and where it will look, we will leave that to the Federal Reserve.   
  
Q    And one last one.  So, does the President then acknowledge any
responsibility for the inflation that we’re seeing now based on the
decisions that he’s made when he came into office?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say, as the President has talked about quite a
bit, there are a range of factors, including the pandemic, the impact on
the supply chains.   
  
And our effort and what we’ve tried to do from the beginning is take
steps to address that — address the supply chains.  And we’ve had a lot
of success moving more equipment and goods, through — through ports, et
cetera.    
  
We’ve also seen, given energy is such a significant driver of this data,
an increase in energy prices over the last month-plus — since the
invasion of Ukraine.  That’s factual.  That’s based on data that we have
seen out there.    
  
So, our effort and our focus has been to try to address it and take
mitigation measures when we can.  
  
Q    But does he take responsibility for his decisions?  Like some say
the American Rescue Plan boosted demand when it didn’t need to.  Larry
Summers was one of those.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, the alternative would have been that we would have
gone into a massive economic downward spiral and many Americans would
have not had enough food to put on the table.  So we chose the other
path.    
  
Go ahead.   
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  Senator Schumer, at a virtual event on student debt
today, said that he’s talked personally to the President, quote, “a
whole bunch of times.”  And talking about canceling student debt, he
said, “We’re making progress, folks.  We are making progress.  The White
House seems more open to it than ever before.”  Has the President had
conversations with Senator Schumer?  And is he, you know, moving on this
issue where he’s more open to the idea of canceling —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  The President has always been happy to sign a bill into law,
passed by Congress, that would cancel $10,000 in student debt.  There
hasn’t been any decision made about other executive actions.  
  
Q    But has he shifted, at all, his thinking?  Is he, you know, open to
— to signing —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  He’s always been happy to sign a law into — a bill into law
that canceled student debt.  That hasn’t changed.  
  
Go ahead.   
  
Q    Thank you, Jen.  The whole world against the Russian aggression in
Ukraine — other than the few countries — like a few countries like
Bangladesh.  Bangladesh Prime Minister recently told in the — at the
parliament those — though this parliament is not mandated by the
people.  She told that — that “Russia stood by us in our bad time, and
we are surely beside the country” — besides the Russia.  And she blamed
USA not to help during the Liberation War in 1971.  So what is your
comment about this authoritarian prime minister’s remarks in the
parliament?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have any spef- — specific response to the Prime
Minister.  I would just say that what we’re doing is encouraging every
country to think hard about what side they’re going to be on history.   
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  There was a new poll out today that showed the
President’s approval rating is still in the low 40s and that voters are
still concerned about the economy.  Is the White House seeing this as a
sign that their message on the increased job numbers and all the
infrastructure funding isn’t getting through?  I mean, the President has
said he wants to see his accomplishments being sold.  Is he satisfied
that’s being done?  Or is there talk of a pivot in messaging?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say, we understand some realities happening
right now, including the fact that there is a war happening in Europe,
and that is dominating the airwaves, which we understand and fully
expect.  And so, the President has actually done a number of events on
the economy in recent days and weeks and will continue to.   
  
But our view is: While the world needs to understand and see how he is —
he is leading on the war, we also — the world also needs to see — or the
country needs to see, I guess I should say, how he is continuing to lead
on the economy.    
  
And I don’t know that that’s a shift or requiring a shift; it’s just a
recognition that being able to continue to speak to domestic — our
domestic audience about that is a huge priority.  And his schedule tells
the story of how much of a priority it is.  
  
Go ahead.   
  
Q    Hey, yeah.  I wanted to ask about the migrants that arrived today
from Texas.  These are Venezuelan and Nicaraguan migrants who have
applied for asylum in the U.S.  Has the administration been in touch
with these migrants or with the organizations that are assisting them,
such as the Catholic Charities?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  The migrants who are — have traveled on the bus from —  
  
Q    Yes.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  — from Texas?  Well, they’re all in immigration proceedings
— those who traveled on the bus.  And so, certainly, that would mean
they’re in touch with the appropriate entities and the federal
government about that process.  But beyond that, I don’t have any other
updates.  
  
Q    So nothing to — you have not been in touch with them to make sure
that their rights are respected —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, that, of course —  
  
Q    — in this process?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  — certainly is of vital importance to us.  And as we’ve
stated many times from here, nobody can forcibly be put on a bus.  They
would have to voluntarily be put on the bus.  And if there are concerns
about that, we would expect they would contact appropriate
authorities.  
  
Q    And even if these migrants wanted to get out of Texas, do you find
it troubling that the Texas government — governor used them as props to
make a political point to the White House?  Do you worry that this might
reinforce the narrative that profiles undocumented people as criminal or
criminals who are bad people?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I said — called it the other day a “publicity stunt”
by Governor Abbott, and made clear that immigration policy and law is
overseen by the federal government, not state governments.  So, I think
I spoke to that the other day pretty clearly.    
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, Jen.  Since you mentioned a team focused on Asia
earlier, I have several Asia questions.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.    
  
Q    There have been reports out of Japan that the U.S., UK, and
Australia have informally asked Japan to become part of AUKUS in the
areas of emerging and disruptive technologies.  But, yesterday, the
Pentagon said they cannot confirm this.  And also, the Japanese
government itself has also now denied these — this news.  But can you
just put this potential “JAUKUS” or “AUKUS-plus-J” rumor —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  JAUKUS, that’s quite a name.  (Laughter.)  I’m not sure
about that.    
  
Q    — to rest?  Can you just put this to rest?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yes.  So, I can.  The reporting is inaccurate — or the new
original reporting, I should say —  
  
Q    Yes.    
  
MS. PSAKI:  — is inaccurate.   And as you noted, the Chief Cabinet
Secretary of Japan has himself said it’s not true.    
  
And our focus has been on finalizing a trilateral program of work on a
range of advanced military capabilities that align our priorities,
amplify our collective strengths, and accelerate the development and
acquisition of leading-edge defense capabilities, but it is not a JAUKUS
plan. (Laughter.)  
  
Q    And another Japan question, if I may.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.   
  
Q    Yesterday, some Japanese media outlets reported that arrangements
were underway for a Quad summit on May 24th, just as President Biden had
alluded on Monday, and that there were plans being made for a bilateral
with Prime Minister Kishida the day before, on May 23rd.  Is there any
part of President’s travel schedule that you can confirm yet, including
a potential trip to South Korea before or after the Japan trip?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Not quite yet.   
  
Q    Okay.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  I will tell you that, you know, of course, the President
talked about how he looks forward to traveling to Tokyo in the spring,
including for the Quad meeting.  And hopefully, we’ll have more to
detail for all of you soon.    
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks a lot, Jen.  I just wanted to a few Ukraine questions —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.   
  
Q    — if I may.  A clarification first: Your list of weaponry that you
put up on the screen at the beginning of the briefing — you had 11 Mi-17
helicopters.  Generally, there are two versions of that helicopter; one
is a transport version, and the other one is an armed gunship.  Which
version are you supplying to Ukraine?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I’m happy to get greater clarity from the Department of
Defense.  Obviously, because of the earlier questions you noted, it was,
“Do they want them?  Do they not want them?”  They were just added back
in, so we’ll see if there’s more detail.  
  
Q    Thank you.  And then, on sanctions: When I hear the possibility of
more sanctions being brought against the Russian government, perhaps
individuals in Russia, I’m just a little confused that you haven’t
thrown everything at Russia already.  What — what’s left?  And why
haven’t you thrown everything at Russia already, in terms of
sanctions?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, there are always — there’s always more that can be
done on the sanctions front: additional financial institutions.  There’s
always secondary sanctions.  There’s a range of steps that can be
taken.    
  
We have already done, to date, as I noted a little bit earlier, the most
significant and crippling sanctions package that has ever been done to a
modern — like, a big economy, ever in history.  
  
So there’s processes that you have to go through to consider, to
evaluate the impact on the global economy, on our economy, whether steps
— and the assessment of that.  And that’s ongoing for additional
options.  
  
Q    And then, one final one.  On a no-fly zone — possibility of a
no-fly zone being imposed by NATO — sometimes, spokespeople like you,
Jen, you say, “All options are on the table.”  Is that an option that is
ever going to be on the table?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We have — we have never conveyed from our end that it should
be on the table.  
  
Thank you.  
  
Q    Jen?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Oh, go ahead.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, Jen.  
  
Q    Jen?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Okay.  
  
Q    I would like to ask you about the pandemic.  But, first of all, I
know we’ve had report that you may be leaving soon.  How would you like
to be remembered as a White House Press Secretary?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, one day, I will not be here, either to spend time with
my kids or because the President fires me — hopefully not the latter. 
At that point, I’m sure I can reflect on that.  
  
Q    And then, the WHO — the WHO D.G. said today at the press briefing
that the way the West — the world is treating the crisis in Ukraine and
the crisis in Yemen, in Ethiopia, and elsewhere seems to be different. 
Is he wrong?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t know more context of —  
  
Q    In terms of refugees, the way, like — you know, I’ve asked you many
times, “Why don’t you grant TPS to refugees from Cameroon or from
Ethiopia?”   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Okay.  That’s helpful clarity on your question. 
That’s a — that’s a process that is overseen by the Department of
Homeland Security, and an assessment is made through that — through that
process.  So, I don’t have any updates for you on that.  
  
Q    And I know you keep saying that, but are you not supposed to lead
the way?  Like, these are people who are suffering.  Ethiopia is
unstable.  Tens of thousands of people have been dying — have died.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  And we —  
  
Q    Millions of people have been displaced.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  And we have spoken to that a number of times from here, from
the State Department, from Defense Department.  All I’m conveying to you
is that there are processes that happen through the interagency, and I
don’t have an update on the status of TPS designation.   
  
Thanks, everyone, so much.  All right.  
  
4:33 P.M. EDT
