---
date: '2022-04-25'
modified_time: 2022-04-25 18:40:59-04:00
published_time: 2022-04-25 18:40:58-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/04/25/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-april-25-2022/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Jen\_Psaki, April 25,\_2022"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

3:20 P.M. EDT

MS. PSAKI:  Hi, everyone.  Okay.  There’s nothing happening in the world
today, I hear — (laughter) — so this should be a quick one.

I have a couple of items for you at the top, as usual.

Over the past year, businesses have been dealing with frequent freight
delay — rail delays and poor service, which has stranded shipments of
grain, fertilizer, ethanol, and other critical commodities across the
country.  This breakdown in service has also forced grain shippers to
pay thousands of extra dollars to guarantee service.

So, on Friday, our administration took emergency action to get goods
moving faster and lower shipping costs.  The Surface Transportation
Board, which regulates railroads, acted on a bipartisan basis to help
bring relief to American businesses that ship their goods by freight
rail. 

Basically, what they did is: This emergency rule would allow it to
address situations where a monopolu- — monopoly railroad isn’t providing
adequate service and show an alternative railroad to step in.  So if a
business wants to move their goods and the railroad that they are
contracted with isn’t allowing them to move them quickly, this will
allow them to have some flexibility, hopefully allowing the movement of
more goods, getting them on shelves, lowering costs.

I also wanted to note that while the President is doing everything in
his power to lower prices for American families, the Federal Reserve
plays an important role, as you all know, in fighting inflation, which
is why it’s so important that we have all of the seats filled on the
Federal Reserve’s Board of Governors. 

Today and this week, as Congress returns, we’re taking a big step
forward toward filling these seats with the nominations of Lael Brainard
and Lisa Cook making their way to the Senate floor.

We call on the Senate to confirm Dr. Brainard and Dr. Cook. And we also
call on the Senate to swiftly take up Jerome Powell and Philip
Jefferson’s nominations this week as well. 

These nominees are eminently qualified, ready to get to work, and
deserve bipartisan support.  They also will make history.  Lisa Cook
would become the first Black woman to ever serve on the Board of
Governors, and Philip Jefferson will be only the fourth Black man to
serve on the Board of Governors.

Finally, the VA announced today new actions to expand disability and
health bene- — benefits to veterans suffering from nine rare respiratory
cancers.  Supporting our veterans is a critical part of the President’s
Unity Agenda.  And with this step, the President is continuing to
deliver on the sacred obligation we have to our nation’s veterans.

The President urges congress to pass bipartisan legislation to
comprehensively address toxic exposures and further <s>delay</s>
\[deliver\] the vital benefits our veterans have earned.

Andrea, welcome back.  Peter, welcome from book leave.  Now they’re
going to ask me especially hard questions.

Zeke, go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  Secretary Austin, I believe, said earlier this
morning that the U.S. wants to, quote, “see Russia weakened to the
degree that it can’t do the kinds things that it has done in invading
Ukraine.”  He said that in regards to Russian military losses, quote,
“We want to see them not have the capability to very quickly reproduce
that capability.”  Is it U.S. policy now to permanently degrade the
Russian military?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think what Secretary Austin in his press conference
was referring to is the fact that if you go back about two months ago,
remember President Putin gave a speech where he talked about the
aspirations — his aspirations, the aspirations he had for the Russian
military — which were to degrade Ukraine, of course; to subsume Ukraine,
to take over their sovereignty, their territorial integrity.  Of course,
they haven’t succeeded at that, but to go beyond that. 

So what Secretary Austin was talking about is our objective to prevent
that from happening.  Obviously, right now, the war is in Ukraine.  They
are — we’re proud of the Ukrainians’ success; their efforts to fight
back, to push back on the Russian military, thanks to their bravery but
also to our support.

But, yes, we are — we are also — we are also looking to prevent them
from expanding their efforts and President Putin’s objectives beyond
that, too.

Q    Is there any concern in the White House that that sort of rhetoric
plays into their domestic message to their audience about “the West is
out trying to get us and contain us,” that — by saying you’re trying to
weaken the Russian military and weaken — it’s essentially strengthening
Putin’s hand at home?

MS. PSAKI:  No.  I would say it’s consistent with our view and the
President’s view and Secretary Austin’s view that we are going to do
everything we can to push back on President Putin’s aspirations to
subsume Ukraine, to take over their territorial integrity and their
sovereignty, and aspirations he had as of two months ago to go beyond
that.

Q    Okay.  And Congress is back in town today.  The President last week
said he’s going to go back to Congress looking for additional —

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    — supplemental Ukraine funding.  Do you have a dollar figure for
how much the President need — is going to go ask for and how long that
money would last?

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Not quite yet.  He is — expect he’ll have
consultations and conversations with military leadership and, of course,
leadership from the State Department over the course of the coming
days.  I expect it’ll be something later in the week, and expect it’ll
be a longer-term package or proposal.

Go ahead.

Q    And just a quick one on the breaking news: Twitter agreeing to let
Elon Musk purchase — make his — go through with this purchase.  Do you
have a response to that?  And does the White House have any concern that
this new agreement might have President Trump back on the platform?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I’m not going to comment on a specific transaction. 
What I can tell you as a general matter: No matter who owns or runs
Twitter, the President has long been concerned about the power of large
social media platforms, what they ha- — the power they have over our
everyday lives; has long argued that tech platforms must be held
accountable for the harms they cause.  He has been a strong supporter of
fundamental reforms to achieve that goal, including reforms to Section
230, enacting antitrust reforms, requiring more transparency, and more. 
And he’s encouraged that there’s bipartisan interest in Congress.

In terms of what hypothetical policies might happen, I’m just not going
to speak to that at this point in time.

Q    Okay.  On the situation at the border and Title 42, Congressman
McCaul said this weekend that Secretary Mayorkas has expressed some
frustration directly to him about how the administration is ending Title
42.  He says the Secretary is saying that the Border Patrol, Catholic
Charities are already overwhelmed.  So, has the Secretary raised these
concerns with President Biden?  And are these concerns that the White
House shares?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think it’s important to remember that Title 42 is
not an immigration policy or an immigration authority.  It’s a health
authority.  So, yes, it was coordinated with the Secretary of Homeland
Security and through an interagency process, and there’s been planning
in the works for months for this possibility that the CDC — to take this
action.

Secretary Mayorkas is going to be testifying later this week, multiple
times.  I’m sure he will answer that question and multiple other
questions, and I will let him speak for himself.

But I would just note that we’re continuing to prepare for March — May
23rd and the im- — May 23rd and the implementation, and there is a
multipart strategy that Secretary Mayorkas has been leading and
overseeing for the past several months.

Q    But has he raised these concerns with the President? 

MS. PSAKI:  I’m not going to get into private conversations.  But I
think, again, it’s important to note this is a CDC decision and
authority about when we were — had the health conditions to lift Title
42.  It wasn’t an indication of an immigration policy.

Q    Do you not believe that there will not be a surge as a result of
Title 42 being lifted come May 23rd?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, the Department of Homeland Security has projected that
there could be an increase in people coming to the border, and that’s
why they’ve had a six-part, multipart plan and proposal and policy
they’ve been implementing for months now to prepare for that.

Q    Is Title 42 — the potential end to it — the reason that the
Congressional Hispanic Caucus is meeting with the President today?

MS. PSAKI:  No.  Actually, if you may remember, the President has been
meeting with a number of the caucuses from Congress — from the
Congressional Black Caucus; he met with CAPAC.  He’s been meeting with
all of the caucuses, as he did last year.  So, this has been a meeting
that’s been in the works for some time. 

Immigration, certainly we expect to be a part of it, but we expect it to
be an expansive meeting.  And I would note the CHC has a stated view and
policy on Title 42.

Go ahead.

Q    One of the members of the CHC is Senator Catherine Cortez Masto. 
And she said of the Title 42 decision that “This is the wrong way to do
this and it will leave the administration unprepared for a surge at the
border.”  Obviously, this is a subject that’s likely to come up in this
meeting today.  What is the President’s message, primarily especially to
these western and border-state Democrats who are concerned about both
the impact on immigration as a policy matter but also the political
fallout as well?

MS. PSAKI:  I think his — our view and the President’s view is that we
have a broken immigration system that’s been long overdue to be fixed. 
He agrees with that, and he’s certainly happy to discuss that during
this meeting or any other meeting has with members of Congress.

But this is not an immigration policy.  This — Title 42 is a health
authority that’s determined by the CDC.  And we — we need to have a
conversation about immigration reform, and that’s vital.  And maybe this
is a reminder of that.

Q    Whenever the administration has been asked about immigration
reform, the answer seems to be the President introduced the bill in the
first week in office, but there’s not much more than that more.  Is this
an opportunity for the administration to try to move something forward
this year?  Or do you believe that campaign politics will just preclude
the likelihood of getting it through?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, we welcome that opportunity.  But I’d also remind you
that we were supportive of efforts to include some components of
immigration reform in the reconciliation packages, and we’ve been
looking for avenues to move it forward and have been supportive of
efforts by Democratic senators to do exactly that.

Q    Is there a specific ask of Congress related to Title 42?  That was
the position that was articulated last week — that this is not a
decision for the President to make but for Congress to make.  What is
the decision that Congress should be making?

MS. PSAKI:  That is a discussion we’ll have with members of Congress. 
We are continuing to prepare to implement the lifting of Title 42, a
decision that was made by the CDC.

I would note that there are a range of views on Title 42.  There are
some, you noted, who are very vocal about how they would like to see it
extended.  There are some who are very vocal about how they would not
like to see that happen. 

So that’s an important discussion that will be happening over the coming
days and weeks. 

Go ahead, Jacqui.

Q    Thank you, Jen.  I don’t believe the White House so far has
commented on the death of Bishop Evans, the 22-year-old National Guard
Specialist who drowned trying to save two migrants.  I wanted to give
you the opportunity to say some words on that.

MS. PSAKI:  Yes.  Thank you for that, Jacqui.  And the news of the
confirmation that his body had been found was confirmed just a couple of
hours ago.  I would note that, of course, our heart goes out to his
family and to his loved ones. 

To confirm all the specific details, he went missing on Friday,
following his selfless efforts to rescue two migrants who appeared to be
drowning who were trying to cross a river in Mexico that went to the
United States — went into the U.S., of course. 

We know that National Guard personnel, including — including him, risk
their lives every day to serve and protect others.  And again, our
hearts go out to his family. 

I don’t have any — in case you may ask, I don’t have any updates at this
moment in terms of the President’s outreach, but if — if that is
something I can update you on this afternoon, I will let you know. 

Q    Does the White House feel any responsibility for his death, given
that there’s reporting that he lost his life allegedly trying to save
two migrants who were smuggling drugs?  This is a problem that, you
know, the administration has been facing for some time and is obviously,
as we’ve been discussing, getting some criticism on.  Is — does the
White House feel at all responsible?  And what — what more can you offer
to people who, you know, are on the border, in border communities, who
are experiencing loss and trials like this?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, of course, we are mourning the loss of his life and we
are grateful for the work of every National Guardsman.  I would note
that the National Guard worked for the states, and so he is an employee
of the Tex- — Texas National Guard, and his efforts and his operation
were directed by there, not by the federal government, in this — in this
effort, in this apparatus.

We’ve — we’ve long stated that our immigration system is broken.  There
needs to be more done to invest in smarter security, to have a more
effective asylum processing system.  And we would welcome any efforts to
— for any elected officials to work with us on that. 

Q    A lot of the border communities often, you know, say that they have
requested more from — from the federal government — more manpower to
help manage these kinds of — these kinds of issues.  Is that being
looked at?  Is that being — is that being —

MS. PSAKI:  Can you give me a more specific request or a specific person
or —

Q    Well, you mentioned that, you know, this — this Specialist was a
National Guard.  Obviously, you know, the state is in charge of that. 
States are in charge of that.  But there have been requests from the
Texas governor, from — you know, to send more — you know, to help people
who are in this position at the border, who are now trying to deal with
an influx of migrants that they know is going to only increase, as you
just mentioned, after Title 42 is lifted. 

You talked about having a humanitarian, you know, sort of, system in
place to deal with people coming across and increase vaccinations and
that kind of thing.  But in terms of, you know, law enforcement presence
at the border.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would just say — if we just dial it back a few years
to, kind of, what we inherited here — the former President invested
billions of dollars in a border wall that was never going to work or be
effective, instead of working towards comprehensive immigration reform. 

As part of the President’s proposal he put forward on his first day in
office, he proposed investing in smarter security at the border —
something he’d be happy to work with governors on.  And — and certainly
we’re open to having that conversation whenever they’re ready to do
that. 

Go ahead, Weijia.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  Just more broadly on the Ukrainian aid.

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.

Q    Since the Russian invasion started, the U.S. has provided more than
$5 billion total when you factor in military, economic, humanitarian
aid.  Is there a figure that is a cap for what the U.S. is willing and
able to provide Ukraine?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say that the range of military assistance that
we’ve provided to date was meant to be frontloaded because of our
expectation or anticipation, led by our Department of Defense and
military leaders, about the nature of the fight and how it has evolved,
right?  That because they’re on a terrain now that — where they’re in
need of long-range military capacity, we’ve tried to expedite the
assistance over the past couple of weeks that they’re receiving.

So it might not be, over the next couple of weeks, the same size of
assistance week by week.  But in terms of what the next package will
look like and what will be passed, I mean, those are discussions and
recommendations that the President will get from his military leaders. 
We’ll have those discussions with Congress.  I’m not in a position to
put a cap on it at this point in time. 

Q    Okay, got it.  And then just switching over to COVID.  The
administration is planning to take new actions to expand Paxlovid.

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah. 

Q    Is there anything you can share about how you plan to do that and
who might be eligible, since right now it’s only for people who are at
higher risk?

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Well, part of it is even people who are eligible are
not taking advantage of the fact that they’re eligible.  So, part of our
effort is to share more information publicly about who can get access,
who can call their doctor and get access to it. 

I will tell you, Dr. Jha is going to make his debut in the briefing room
tomorrow.  So, he will lay out for you and others more specifically all
the steps we’re taking to increase knowledge of Paxlovid, who can
benefit from it.

I don’t think we’re intending to — and I’ll let him speak to this — say
there’s going to be an expansion of who’s eligible, as much as we’re —
and I will, obviously, leave that to the health experts to determine —
but more we need to focus on making sure that everybody who is eligible
knows they’re eligible and they can get access to it, because it is very
effective in treating COVID. 

Q    Thank you, Jen.

MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead.

Q    Yeah.  Just a couple on Twitter.  I wanted to go back and try
again.  Are you concerned about the kind of purveyors of election
misinformation, disinformation, health falsehoods, sort of, having more
of an opportunity to speak there on Twitter?

Is there, you know, any message that you would convey to Elon Musk as
the new owner?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would just —

Q    And, you know, I would maybe just add to it that, you know, public
— publicly traded companies have different levels of — there’s different
levels of scrutiny that are possible of publicly traded companies.  So,
are you concerned about, you know, a billionaire taking control of a
company that — where there’s already a lot of concentration of power?

MS. PSAKI:  I would say that our concerns are not new.  We’ve long
talked about and the President has long talked about his concerns about
the power of social media platforms, including Twitter and others, to
spread misinformation, disinformation; the need for these platforms to
be held accountable. 

While I know you tried again — I appreciate that — I still don’t have a
specific comment on this specific transaction.  And at this point, we
don’t have any sense of what the policies will look like. 

Q    Okay.  And then, last week, Daleep Singh made some very strong
comments and also Treasury Secretary Yellen made some comments about the
positive impact on inflation of lowering tariffs on certain Chinese
goods — bicycles, underwear, apparel.  So —

MS. PSAKI:  It’s quite a list.

Q    Yeah, it was quite a list.  Is there something cooking?  Can you
tell us something?  And do you notice the White House embracing that? 
Is that something we could see happen soon?

MS. PSAKI:  So, from the beginning of the administration, we talked
about how some of the tariffs implemented by the previous administration
were not strategic and instead raised costs on Americans.  And our
effort — which has been ongoing, of course — has been to ensure current
Section 301 tariffs align appropriately with our economic and trade
priorities. 

And you mentioned, you know, different goods that are sold.  But, of
course, on wages and job opportunities; critical supply chains, where we
see critic- — impacts on critical supply chains; our ability to sustain
our technological edge — this is an ongoing process.

And we’re certainly looking at where we see costs being raised at a time
where we’re seeing heightened inflation; certainly, that’s on our
minds.  It’s also about addressing the core issues we have with how
China has approached, you know, their engagement around economic issues
as well. 

So, it’s both. 

Q    So, can we look for some tariff reductions in some relatively short
period of time?

MS. PSAKI:  We’re continuing to review it.  I don’t have anything at
this moment to preview for you, but our focus is on those same
categories and areas: where we can impact — where we think they’re
impacting wages and job opportunities, our technological edge.  That’s
the prism through which our economic team — Ambassador Tai is, of
course, leading this effort, is — is reviewing these sanctions. 

Q    And then, just a real quick one on Putin.  So, the sanctions that
have been imposed — and I realize they’re quite sweeping and large, but
on — especially on oligarchs and other people close to Putin — have thus
far excluded his girlfriend, whose name I can’t quite pronounce —
*Kayova*?  *Kayeva*?  Do you have any comment on why you would refrain
from sanctioning someone arguably close to Putin?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would remind you we’re continuing to review
sanctions.  No one is safe from our sanctions.  We’ve already, of
course, sanctioned President Putin, but also his daughter, his closest
cronies, and we’ll continue to review more. 

So, I wouldn’t — I don’t have an analysis at this point because we’re
still reviewing.  There’s more we will likely do. 

Go ahead.

Q    Jen, on just the broader strategy of helping Ukraine, there’s
obviously hurting Russia economically, hurting Russia militarily.  Given
that the U.S. has rolled out so many sanc- — economic sanctions already
against Russia, and the heavy fighting that we’re seeing now, should we
expect that the help that the U.S. offers Ukraine, going forward, would
be more heavily, like, militarily focused as opposed to economic?  Or is
that the wrong way of looking at it, as it’s sort of all of the above?

MS. PSAKI:  No, I understand your question.  I think these are all
discussions that we’re having through the interagency, and there’ll be a
recommendation made to the President. 

I mean, there’s no question they need additional military assistance. 
As part of Secretary Austin’s follow-up to his trip to Ukraine, he was
in Germany today meeting to discuss kind of the next steps and what
their needs are as the — as the — as the battle and the war continues to
evolve. 

But they are also going to have significant humanitarian and economic
needs as well.  So I would expect that all of them will continue to be
touched on.  But these are the discussions that are happening in the
interagency process now. 

Q    And is there any new, updated U.S. assessment on any discontent or
disagreement within Putin’s top advisors or inner circle about the
direction of the war? 

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have any assessment I can read out from here — or
any new assessment.

Q    And just one more on a different topic — just on inflation, given
that it continues to be such a big concern for so many people.  The
President obviously doesn’t have the luxury of wandering outside the
White House.  He can’t, you know, go fill up this car or go to the
grocery store.  Can you give us a sense of how he sort of is updated
every day, or how he gets a sense of how much does milk cost more today
than a week ago?  Just how does he sort of keep up to date on how much
more expensive things are for the average American?

MS. PSAKI:  I can assure you that the President sees himself as the kid
from Scranton, more than many people who work in his administration, and
he is often the person who reminds people and members of his policy team
in meetings what the impacts of rising food costs or gasoline costs or
other issues are.  He does request and receive regular updates from his
economic team. 

And often, when he returns from weekends at home in Delaware, he comes
back with conversations he had with people as he came out of church or,
you know, as he — people he’s known for a long time in his community,
and they often tell him about how these — how the rising costs impact
his life. 

So I would say that he stays abreast of these changes and of these
increases in costs and the impacts through economic data and briefings,
but also through his own conversations whenever he can have them.

Q    Jen?  Jen? 

MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead.

Q    I have — I have a question here about — following the recent
Palestinian terror attacks from the Temple Mount and previous week of
attacks that have killed many Israelis and wounded more, is the Biden
administration reconsidering its support of the Palestinian Authority’s
two-state solution dividing Israel or stopping the welfare payments sent
to the Palestinian Authority, who use the money for their pay-to-slay
reward system?  And I have a follow-up question. 

MS. PSAKI:  Okay.  Well, I would just note that I spoke to this last
week, on Wednesday, where I noted that the United States is deeply
concerned by the recent violence in Jerusalem and the Temple Mount and
across the We- — West Bank.  And we also strongly condemn the recent
rocket attack on Israel. 

You may or may not have seen also that the President conducted a call
with Prime Minister Bennett on Sunday morning.  He accepted an
invitation by Prime Minister Bennett — Bennett to visit Israel in the
coming months.  No specific date yet.  He took note of the ongoing
efforts between Israeli and Palestinian officials to lower tensions and
ensure a peaceful conclusion to the holy season of Ramadan. 

And he also affirmed our unwavering support for Israel and its defense
needs and welcomed the historic $1 billion allocation to replenish
Israel’s Iron Dome system. 

Q    Okay.  The follow-up is: In view of continued Palestinian violence
against innocent civilians, is the Biden administration willing to stop
payments to the anti-semitic U.N. agency, UNRWA, and support restoring
the Jewish cemetery in Vilnius, Lithuania, to its former glory?

MS. PSAKI:  Again, I think — I don’t have any changes to announce to our
policy.  I spoke to our condemnation of the violence just now as last —
and last week as well, and noted also our call to the Prime Minister. 

Go ahead. 

Q    Thank you.

Q    Jen, a point of clarification on the aid that the U.S. has already
allocated to Ukraine. 

MS. PSAKI:  Sure. 

Q    The President said last week that he had “almost exhausted” his
drawdown ability.  So how much, after that announcement of the $800
million on Thursday, does the U.S. have left to provide Ukraine?

MS. PSAKI:  I’m sure I can get you this specific, exact number.  It was
almost about $3.5 billion total of drawdown authority, I believe.  I
will double-check that number for you. 

So what he was referring to is: Because of how quickly we’ve been moving
the military assistance to the Ukrainians on the ground, we anticipated
being almost at a near end of that drawdown authority.  So that’s why
he’s going to put forward a new package this week. 

Q    And on student debt cancellation: Yesterday, Senator Elizabeth
Warren said that the White House has essentially already canceled some
student debt by waiving interest on that student debt, and it could use
that same exact authority to cancel student debt permanently.  Does the
White House agree with that view?  This is about the authority, not
whether you will but that you can derive the authority in the same exact
way. 

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have anything to preview for you in terms of any
authority and how — or how it would work.  What I would tell you is that
not a single person in this country has paid a dime on student — federal
student loans since the President took office.  And what we have said is
that he would make a decision about any cancellation of student debt
before the conclusion of that pause on student loans, but I don’t have
anything to preview for you at this point in time.

Q    And a quick follow-up on that.  She said that it was “an issue of
racial equity.”  Does the White House view this as a racial equity
issue?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, again, I think the President views student loan
relief, debt relief as something that impacts — yes, it is a racial
equity issue, but it is also an issue that impacts many individuals —
young people, middle-aged people — of all races.  It is something that
he has — he has played — it has been a vital priority to the President,
which again is why not a single person has played — paid a penny, a dime
— a dime or a penny in student loans since he took office. 

Go — go — go ahead, JJ.  I don’t want to forget you.  Go ahead. 

Q    Oh, thanks.  Two questions on the supplemental funding — 

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    — and then one Cedric Richmond. 

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah. 

Q    On the supplemental, has the administration decided to definitely
combine the COVID funding with the aid for Ukraine?

MS. PSAKI:  We don’t have the mechanism yet.  There’s — these are
conversations that we’ll have with Congress. 

Obviously, prior to the recess, there was the proposal that did combine,
but — but not — don’t have a — don’t have a sense yet. 

Q    Not quite yet. 

And then, is the White House considering extending the Title 42
immigration restrictions as part of a deal with Congress?  Are you
considering it?

MS. PSAKI:  Again, this would be Congress having the discussion.  We’re
continuing to prepare for a May 23rd implementation.  There’ll be a
range of conversations about this over the coming days. 

Q    And then, the New York Times is reporting that Cedric Richmond is
leaving.  Is he?  And just last week, he said publicly that he wouldn’t
leave unless the President asked him to.  So, has something changed
there?

MS. PSAKI:  Yes.  Okay.  Well, let me first say that Cedric Richmond has
been, continues to be a vital, essential advisor to the President — was
on the campaign, continues to be in the White House.  I have been in
many meetings with Cedric Richmond, where the President goes to him and
looks to him for his political sense, his assessment of Congress.  He
trusts him implicitly. 

I have nothing to announce at this point, but I can assure you when we
have something to announce, it will involve a new important role to —
for Cedric Richmond and something the President is excited about and has
asked him to do. 

Go ahead.

Q    Jen, we saw the readout — we saw the readout from the call with the
French President.  Did the President see any larger meaning in the
French elections in terms of the support of the Allied effort against
Russia?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have any assessment of that.  Can I — I’ll leave
that to others to do analysis.  The President was pleased with the —
with the outcome. 

As you know, he spoke with President Macron this morning, and he’s
looking forward to continuing to work with him in standing up against
Russian aggression and standing with the Ukrainian people.

Q    And Ron — just along those lines, Ron Klain tweeted, “An
interesting observation…\[that\] President Macron…secured a double-digit
victory…at a time when his approval rating is 36%.”  Was there anything
he was suggesting with that?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have any more analysis to provide on that front,
though I appreciate the question. 

Go ahead. 

Q    On NATO, reports in Finland and Sweden say that the country — the
two countries are preparing to apply to join NATO as early as next
month.  Is the White House supportive of that effort?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, those are decisions for these countries to make and
for the NATO Alliance to make.  And so we’ll leave it to those entities.

Q    And then, just on gun violence.  We learned more about Friday’s
shooter today from D.C. police, who say he had hundreds of rounds of
unspent ammo inside his Connecticut Avenue apartment.  And then, today,
the D.C. mayor announced a new police initiative to target violent
crime. 

Does the President believe he’s done all he can do to fight violent
crime, gun issues around this country without the intervention of
Congress?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, he will continue to look for every authority he has to
take steps to address gun violence — violent crimes across the country. 

The last time we had data was in 2020, I believe.  And at that time,
about 77 percent of homicides were done with a firearm.  And you saw him
talk two weeks ago now — it’s all running together — but two weeks ago
now, I believe, about ghost guns and the steps that he is going to
continue to take to address ghost guns, which we have seen have a rising
role in — in gun — in gun deaths and gun targeting over the past several
months. 

I would also note that then, when he was doing that event, he
highlighted that two LA sheriff’s deputies who have been wounded by a
shooter using a ghost gun.  So that’s just even an example of how even
they’re using — these ghost guns are being used to target police as
well, which is also a problem. 

So, I would say, of course, there are significant steps that Congress
can take that would make these laws permanent — that is the President’s
first preference — whether it’s background checks, banning assault
weapons.  These are laws that he has led the effort to pass throughout
his career, many decades.   
  
But he will continue to look for any steps he can take using his own
authorities, as he has done several times since taking office.  I think
he’s done more than any other president using executive authority.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  Two questions for you.  President Biden made his
first endorsement of the midterm election cycle on Saturday, endorsing
Congressman Kurt Schrader.  Why did he decide to weigh in on this race
first?  And what would he say to some progressives who are frustrated
that he endorsed Schrader over his opponent?

MS. PSAKI:  I certainly understand your question.  I don’t make the
rules, but the rules are I can’t speak a lot about politics from here. 
So I would point you to the DNC, and I would point you to Congressman
Schrader’s office.  
  
Q    Second question for you: There’s been a fair bit of speculation
about Vladimir Putin’s health based on recent videos of him.  Has the
White House made an assessment on this matter?   And have concerns been
raised internally at all about this topic?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have any assessment for — to offer from here or any
particular comment on the mental health of President Putin.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Jen, back to Title 42 quickly.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    I want to make sure I’m understanding what you’re saying today.  I
hear you talking about discussions going forward, the debate that’s
happening, all of that.  Are you saying that Title 42 — I know you’re
prepared to lift the current policy on May 23rd.  Are you saying that
will happen unless Congress acts?  Or are you saying the White House
might do something else?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Congress would have to take action in order for the date not
to be May 23rd.

Q    Okay.  On Hunter Biden: The New York Post is reporting — looking at
White House visitor logs, there were 19 visits to the White House while
the President was Vice President by Hunter Biden’s business partner,
including one with the Vice President.  Could you help us understand why
that business partner had access and what those meetings were about?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have any information on that.  I’m happy to check
and see if we have any more comment.  
  
Q    And then, former Senator David Perdue, last night, hoping to be a
senator again, opened his debate by saying that the election — 2020
election was rigged and stolen.  We know that every court — most courts
— courts have ruled that it was fair, there’s no evidence of fraud.  But
I wonder what you make of those comments.  And has the White House done
enough to push back and to make it clear that the election was not
stolen?

MS. PSAKI:  I think that speaks to the former President’s hold over
factions of the Republican Party, not facts.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you so much, Jen.  Two questions on Brazil.  First, last
Friday, President Biden said the United States and rich countries should
be paying Brazil to protect the Amazon.  And he said he’s trying to get
this done.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Mm-hmm.  
  
Q    So what exactly is he trying to do?  Is he trying to work with
other rich countries, negotiating with Brazil?  Is he ready to provide
financial support to Brazil?  And how much would that be?

MS. PSAKI:  So the science — in the President’s view, and the reason he
made these comments, is that the science has only become more clear that
the world needs to both strengthen and accelerate emissions reductions. 
And part of that goal is conser- — includes conserving global forest
ecosystems that remove carbon from the atmosphere and store more carbon
than they emit in a year, serving as carbon sinks.   
  
So President Biden recognized the necessity of mobilizing funding from
the whole go- — from world governments and the private sector.  And the
Plan to Conserve Global Forest: the Critical Carbon Sinks launched at
COP26 aims to mobilize finance from the public and private sector, with
a strong focus on <s>levering</s> \[leveraging\] private-sector finance
through market mechanisms.  So that’s what he was speaking to and
certainly an effort he continues to support.

Q    And there is a delegation today from the State Department in
Brazil.  I wonder if this trip has anything to do with the war in
Ukraine and perhaps the United States seeking or interested in working
with Brazil food and energy security?

MS. PSAKI:  I would really point you to the State Department.  We are
working with a range of countries, obviously, on addressing where we see
any food shortages around the world.  And, obviously, Ukraine is front
and center on the minds of most global leaders.

Q    And just a quick one: Why President Biden has declined to talk with
President Bolsonaro?  We know that the Brazilian government its trying —
been trying — try more than once.  So why is he declining to —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have any update.  The President obviously has a busy
schedule.  He has spoken with a range of global leaders but not every
single one, and you just noted the State Department is in Brazil for a
visit.  So I would note we have an ongoing dialogue at a high level.   
  
Go ahead.   
  
Q    Yes, Jen — oh.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Oh, go ahead.  
  
(Cross-talk by reporters.)  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Oh, okay.  Either one.  Okay.  You’re kind of matching
today, I’ll note.   Yeah, there you go.  In your suits —  
  
Q    We got the memo.  (Laughter.)  
  
MS. PSAKI:  — in blue.

Q    Yeah, so, more people are starting to talk about recession. 
Goldman Sachs and Bank of America alluded to it.  You — because of
inflation.  The steps that have been taken so far haven’t seemed to work
to get inflation to come back down.  What additional steps are you guys
looking at to curb inflation as well as the feeling that the economy is
headed in the wrong direction?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say, first, there are a number of strong
economic indicators that we would point to.  We created more jobs last
year than any year in American history.  The unemployment rate is at 3.6
percent.  
  
We know that costs are too high.  Inflation, which the Federal Reserve
has purview over, still projects that it will moderate by the end of the
year.  There are a number of steps they have and they have indicated
they have in — the plans to recalibrate.  We support that effort.  They
have a lot of power here, in terms of taking steps to address
inflation.   
  
We are not — the President is not waiting for that to happen, and he is
taking steps to address where we see costs increasing in different areas
that impact the American people’s pocketbooks.  Whether it’s gas prices
— obviously, he made an announcement to tap the Strategic Petroleum
Reserve; led the global release — led an effort to release from the —
globally to bring down gas prices.   
  
We’ve also taken steps to fix issues with our supply chain to make sure
goods are moving as quickly as possible.  And there’s a lot of interest
— continues to be in Congress — to take steps to lower costs on
prescription drugs, healthcare, eldercare, childcare.  Those are all
steps that are based on the President’s proposals.

Q    (Inaudible) the President has pushed those spending proposals.  The
San Francisco Federal Reserve released a report —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  They’d be fully paid for, so they’re not actually spending
proposals; they’re proposals to lower costs that are fully paid for.

Q    The San Francisco Federal Reserve released a report saying that
government spending accounted for 3 percent of the inflation that we’re
seeing now.  So is spending more really the way to go?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, again, I think if you look back at where we were a
year and a half ago, we were at the point where there was a significant
economic downturn; where people were really suffering, struggling to put
food on the table; strug- — people were out of work.  And what we’ve
done — what we did at that time is take steps to help stem that economic
downturn.  And that was a decision made that the President continues to
believe was in the interest of the American people.  
  
Q    One last quick one on China — the — looking at more lockdowns.  Now
Beijing may be involved in that.  Is there anything that the
administration is looking at doing to help the supply chains if this
clogs up again?

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  So, we’re — we’re — we’re following this very
closely.  And as you know, there are a couple of different issues at
play here.  There’s obviously Shenzhen, which has kind of reopened, and
they had moved around where their goods were being produced and moved
around which ports they were going through.  Shanghai, obviously.  And
there were a couple of industries that were being impacted.   
  
We haven’t seen, at this point, a decrease in ships coming to our ports
in California from Asia.  We obviously are continuing to monitor that. 
And Beijing is — has increased their testing, which could be a precursor
to a lockdown, but we don’t — we don’t know at this point.   
  
So what we’re doing right now is we’re closely monitoring — the State
Department is, our economic team is.  And — but we haven’t seen a
slowdown in ships coming to our ports in California.  
  
If there is an increase as lockdowns decrease in some parts of China,
we’ll also be prepared for that, because we’ve been able to take steps
to reduce the number of cargo ships there.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Just one question, Jen.  There’s been — there’s been a lot of
explosions and strange fires at quite significant places in Russia over
the last couple of weeks, just most recently in the city of Bryansk. 
Its oil containers blew up.  There’s a lot of speculation over what’s
causing it.  And, obviously, one of the theories would be that Ukraine
somehow doing it.   
  
What is the U.S. position on Ukraine attacking inside Russian
territory?  Is this something that U.S. is encour- — would encourage
them to do and try and help them do it — you know, in terms of weapons? 
Or is it something maybe where you’d advise the Ukrainians not to go
there?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t — we don’t have any confirmation of that.  Ukraine
is defending their own country, so I’m just not going to speak to a
hypothetical.  
  
Q    Yeah, no, I’m not asking for confirmation on things that have
happened.  It’s just there’s obviously a lot of speculation.  And it’s
kind of an obvious point, right?  Like, they’re fighting the Russians
tooth and nail inside their own country, quite often near the borders,
and the Russians are inside their country.  So, is there a U.S. position
on — on whether the Ukrainians should have the right or maybe even be
encouraged to take their fight beyond their border?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Again, that is a hypothetical, so I’m not going to speak to
it.  Ukraine’s country is being invaded.  Russia is invading their
country.  That’s what we’re supporting them for.  And there’s been no
confirmation of what you’re detailing.  So I’m just not going to speak
to it.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    If I may, just — we know that Congressional Hispanic Caucus members
are here meeting with the President.  I wonder if immigration and also
Title 42 is being discussed.  And I don’t know how much you can reveal
about that meeting that is taking place this afternoon.

MS. PSAKI:  So I don’t have a readout of the meeting at this point in
time.  I would note that this is part of the series of meetings, as I
noted earlier, that the President is doing with a range of the caucuses
in Congress.  He did the Congressional Black Caucus, he did CAPAC, and
he did these last year as well.   
  
So we certainly expect immigration to be a topic of discussion, but I
would note that the CHC also has a stated position on Title 42 as a
caucus, which is that they oppose any change to the decisions that been
— that has been made.  So anything could be discussed, but I wouldn’t
anticipate that being a topic — a major topic.  
  
Q    If I may on Transdniestria —

MS. PSAKI:  Sorry, Matt.  I’ll come to you next.  Go ahead.

Q    If I may, on Transdniestria —

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    — there appears to have been some kind of attack on the ministry of
state security.  We know that Moscow has been talking about this area
possibly entering the conflict.  It seemed — it happened on a holiday
when there wouldn’t have been people in the building.  Does this bear
the hallmarks of a false-flag operation of the sort that you’ve been
warning us about?

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah, I’ve seen the reports.  I don’t — obviously we have,
of course — but I have — I don’t have any confirmation of the specifics
or the details at this point in time from here.

Go ahead, Matt.  Matt, did you have a question?

Q    Yeah. I just have two.  The first is: With the CHC coming —

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    — some have wanted Biden — the administration to do more on
executive actions related to immigration.  And, I guess, just
philosophically, does the President believe that he’s exhausted most of
the things that he can do through executive power?  You had alluded
earlier about the legislative push —

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.

Q    — but are there things that he feels like he could still do it
through executive actions related to immigration?

MS. PSAKI:   I mean, I think his view is that taking steps and working
with Congress to pass comprehensive immigration reform that has smarter
security, that does put in place an asylum processing system that works
is the best step that will have a lasting impact. 

Obviously, we’re continuing to assess any executive actions we can take,
but he’ll, I think, continue to discuss legislative actions as well.

Q    And then, secondly, you had mentioned this at the top — about the
toxic exposures and that the President wants comprehensive — for the
comprehensive legislation to be passed.  The House has passed a version
related to this; the Senate has passed a version. 

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    The Senate version is sometimes criticized by advocates as not
going far enough.  So, does the President have a stance on which piece
of legislation he views as addressing this issue comprehensively?  Is he
getting involved in that? There’s other legislation that’s — that hasn’t
been passed in the Senate that also grapples with this issue.

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  I mean, obviously, as you know, now the next step is
for both bodies of Congress to work together and figure out the path
forward.  We did issue a SAP on the PACT Act.  So beyond that, I don’t
think I have anything more to update you on, on the position.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  I had a question on Title 42.  At the risk of this
being a dumb question: So if the CDC is able to extend Title 42, why is
it up to Congress?  Can you just help people understand why it’s on
Congress to extend it and how (inaudible)?

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Congress gave the CDC authority to determine when the
conditions would be met to lift Title 42, which again, has never been an
immigration authority or an immigration policy; it’s always been a
health authority. 

So when they determined we no longer had the conditions where we had to
take action to quickly deport people who came to the country, they made
that health decision based on data and science and the CDC
decision-making.  Congress would need to make any decision about a
change to the authority they gave the CDC. 

Q    So the CDC doesn’t have the authority to just say, “Things have
changed –”? 

MS. PSAKI:  If the health and data conditions change, they could
certainly make a different decision, I supp- — sure.  But they make
decisions based on health and data, not based on politics or where
members of Congress sit.

Q    Another coronavirus —

MS. PSAKI:  (Inaudible.)

Q    And, actually, a follow-up on that question and something that was
asked earlier.  Does the — is the President willing to sign something if
it comes to his desk as part of a legislative package that would change
the rules for how Title 42 is administered?  Because if it is, in fact —
it is up to Congress ultimately, that would get to the President’s desk
and he would ultimately have to either sign it or veto it.  Is —

MS. PSAKI:  There’s a lot of steps between now and then.  So, at this
point, that’s very premature.  There are many members who strongly would
like to see Title 42 extended.  There are many who strongly have the
other point of view.  So, we are not anywhere near that point in time.

Go ahead.

Q    Jen, the Surgeon General has said that misinformation about COVID
amounts to a public health crisis. 

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    I’m wondering: Regardless of ownership, would the White House be
interested in working with Twitter like it has in the past to continue
to combat this kind of misinformation?  Or are we in a different part of
the pandemic where that kind of partnership is no longer necessary?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think we engage regularly with all social media
platforms about steps that can be taken that has continued, and I’m sure
it will continue.  But there are also reforms that we think Congress
could take and we would support taking, including reforming Section 230,
enacting antitrust reforms, requiring more transparency.  And the
President is encouraged by the bipartisan support for — or engagement in
those efforts.

Q    Jen, on the U.S. and its allies in the Pacific: They’re clearly
being blindsided by China’s security pact with the Solomon Islands, a
very strategic location in the Pacific.  Kurt Campbell was down there
only last week, and he announced some initiatives on, you know, speeding
up the embassy there —

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    — and they’re sending a hospital boat, that sort of thing.  The
question is: Why wouldn’t you — why wouldn’t the U.S. commit to far more
significant security/military initiatives in such a strategic place like
that? 

And also, I wonder what would the Biden administration want from other
countries.  Australia hasn’t exactly been very well prepared for this
Chinese-Solomon agreement either.

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah, it’s a great group of questions.  I have not talked to
Kurt Campbell about this since he returned.  I’m not sure if the
President has.  I can — I can see if there’s anything more we can update
you on, on our policies.

Q    Thank you.

Q    Thank you, Jen.  I wanted to —

Q    The President has issued a statement on malaria.  Do you — the
President just issued a statement on malaria today.  Since the time you
started speaking, almost a hundred children have died of malaria.  It
said two — children — a child dies every two minutes of malaria.  Is the
President prepared to increase funding, maybe fight malaria the same way
the U.S. has been fighting COVID?

MS. PSAKI:  It’s obviously something the President cares deeply about,
as we do as an administration.  I don’t have anything for you in terms
of predictions of additional funding.  I can see if there’s anything
more from USAID. 

Go ahead.

Q    On the coronavirus —

Q    On the TPS, I know the administration has just granted TPS to
Cameroonian living in the U.S.  Why not extend it Ethiopia and Nigeria,
other African countries that are also in crisis?

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah, I know you’ve asked me a similar question before. 
It’s an effort or a process led by the Department of Homeland Security
to make a determination about conditions on the ground and an
interagency process.  I don’t — I don’t have anything to predict at this
point.  Obviously, they’re continuing to assess.

Q    I wanted to ask about your announcement from last week on refugees
from Ukraine.

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    I know you’re supposed to open the portal for applications today
from DHS.

MS. PSAKI:  Yep.

Q    Can you talk about how you’re preparing the resources to be able to
accept what I’m sure is going to be a big influx of applications as soon
as that portal opens?

MS. PSAKI:  So the Department of Homeland Security is going to do a
briefing this afternoon for more — with more details to provide to you. 
And, obviously, they will oversee the process.  And you’re right, we
certainly anticipate lots of interest on both sides.

Q    Thanks, Jen.

Q    Will there be someone in the White House — I know when you were
working on Operation Afghans \[sic\] Welcome —

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    — there was someone in charge of it from this end.  Is there going
to be someone over here that’s working on it?

MS. PSAKI:   Sure.  Obviously, Russia and Ukraine, and implementing all
of our programs, is a top priority for the national security team.  I’ll
see if there is one individual who will be responsible.

Thanks so much.

4:08 P.M. EDT
