---
date: '2022-04-11'
modified_time: 2022-04-12 12:40:53-04:00
published_time: 2022-04-11 06:40:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/04/11/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-april-11-2022-2/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Jen\_Psaki, April 11,\_2022"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

1:11 P.M. EDT  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Hi, everyone.  Okay.  Just a couple of items for all of you
at the top.  We tried to wait until after the backgrounder on the India
bilat as well, so hopefully you were able to listen in on that.  
  
Today, as part of the fight to help Americans deal with high costs, the
Vice President is announcing new actions to protect consumers and lessen
the burden of medical debt on American families.    
  
She’ll be joined by administration leaders, including HHS Secretary
Becerra, CFPB Director Chopra, and OMB Director Young.   
  
Medical debt is now the largest source of debt in collections — more
than credit cards, utilities, and auto loans combined.  But it is not
just a financial issue; it can have negative health effects too. 
Studies have found that Americans with medical debt are more likely to
avoid seeking additional medical care than those without debt.   
  
Getting sick or taking care of loved ones should not mean financial
hardship for American families.  That is why the administration is going
to hold medical providers and debt collectors accountable for harmful
practices, reduce the role that medical debt plays in determining
whether Americans can access credit, help over half a million of
low-income American veterans get their medical debt forgiven, and inform
consumers of their rights.  
  
These actions come on the heels of the President’s April 5th executive
order on access to affordable, quality healthcare coverage.   
  
I also wanted to note that, today, our administration launched a rural
infrastructure tour to double down on the President’s unwavering
commitment to building a better America where rural communities
thrive.    
  
The White House released a Rural Playbook to help state, local, Tribal,
and territorial governments in rural areas unlock the historic
investments from the President’s Bipartisan Infrastructure Law.  
  
This playbook offers a “what, when, where, and how” to apply for funding
under the law, making it easier for rural communities to plan and
compete for federal resources that create good-paying jobs and generate
economic opportunities.    
  
Secretary Haaland is kicking off the tour in Boulder County, Colorado,
today.  And during the month of April, Cabinet members and Biden
administration officials will travel to dozens of rural communities to
talk about how we are unlocking Bipartisan Infrastructure Law
investments and federal resources to make sure they reach rural areas
across America.  
  
This tour includes the President’s trip tomorrow to Menlo, Iowa, outside
of Des Moines, to discuss our — the administration’s actions to lower
costs for working families.    
  
There, President Biden will make an announcement on actions to reduce
the impact of Putin’s price hike and build America — a better America
with investments in rural communities from the Bipartisan Infrastructure
Law.  
  
And welcome back, Karine — her first day back.  We’re very thrilled to
have her back here with us in the Briefing Room.  
  
Okay.  With that —  
  
Q    I’ve got three things, hopefully —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  
  
Q    — pretty quickly.  You just mentioned the President is going to
Iowa as part of the Rural Playbook launch.  He’s visiting a state that
he lost during the 2020 campaign, and he’s going to a county that was
even more voting Republican last time.  I’m wondering if that will make
it harder to — for that area to receive his message politically.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think the President is not making this trip through
a political prism.  He’s making this trip because Iowa is a rural state
in the country that would benefit greatly from the President’s policies,
including the policies that he’ll be talking about tomorrow on his
trip.  
  
When he was running, I think many of you heard him say and convey he
wanted to be the President for all people, whether you voted for him or
not.  And this is certainly an example of his effort to do exactly
that.  
  
Q    On another topic — looking at the bilateral.  How much did the
President push the Prime Minister to limit Russian energy imports and
arms?  And what was the response?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, we’ll let the Indian government project their response
— or not their response, but their readout of the call.  
  
I would say that energy imports are not banned.  They don’t violate our
sanctions.  We certainly recognize every country is going to take steps
that are in their interest.    
  
At the same time, on this call, what the President did is consistent
with what our Deputy National Security Advisor, of course, did during
his visit just a few weeks ago — was to make clear what the impact, of
course, of our sanctions would be.  We expect everybody to abide by
those.    
  
And while India is — only imports about 1 to 2 percent of its energy
from Russia, we also made clear and the President made clear that we
would be happy to help them in diversifying this as well.  
  
In terms of — and we also made clear, I should say, that — the President
also made clear that he does not believe it’s in India’s interest to
accelerate or increase imports of Russian energy and other commodities
as well, which is something we certainly convey to other countries.  
  
In terms of military — military actions: So we have not made a decision
about the waiver under CAATSA.  In terms of how much it was discussed
during the call, I’d have to get more details from our national security
team on that specifically.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  On the new rule today, this is already facing the
threat of legal challenges — challenges from some gun groups.  Given
those threats, are you bracing for legal challenge?  And when do you
realistically expect to see this new rule take effect, given those
challenges?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, let me first say that this rule — or the intention to
put this rule forward was announced, as you know, some time ago.  And
there was a lot of response to it — 250,000 comments — which is, of
course, a lot to go through.  
  
What this is a reflection of and why the President is, of course,
confident or hopeful about our ability to ensure we can continue to
implement it is the fact that ghost guns kill people too.  Ghost guns
can be purchased online.  People put together these kits.  There are not
background checks that are required.   They’re not under the same —
they’re not, also, required to — to have serial numbers, which makes it
more difficult for law enforcement to track when these have an impact in
crimes.  
  
So, of course, the President is confident in any executive order and the
legal authority that he puts forward.  But what’s important to note
about the announcement he is making today is that this is — this is a
rule that is supported by law enforcement; it is a rule that will help
address what we know is a rising component of gun crimes across the
country, which is the use of ghost guns.  And to the President, it was
important to take a step to address that.  
  
Q    Going off of what you just said, police tell us that these guns are
as simple as clicking on the Internet and snapping parts together.  Will
there be — can you say, this administration say there will be fewer
shootings as a result of what the President is doing today?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, that’s always our hope and our objective — right? — is
to reduce the impact of gun violence.  As we’ve seen violence go up, we
have seen a huge, vast majority of that — nearly three quarters — as a
result of guns.  And ghost guns, as you said, Cecilia, are used by
simply clicking and ordering online — ordering a kit that people can
make in their homes.    
  
And that is one of the reasons why this action or efforts to take more
steps has been supported by a range of law enforcement officials from —
the International Association of Chiefs of Police said that ghost guns
are, quote, “increasingly used by criminals and terrorists.”  We saw
Governor Larry Hogan — of course, a Republican, as you know — call
Maryland’s ban — a bill banning ghost guns a, quote, “positive step as
we seek to stem the tide of violent crime.”  Brown County, Wisconsin
Lieutenant Matt Ra- — Matt Ronk said ghost guns are, quote, “a new
threat.”   
  
And there are a range of police leaders and officials across the country
who have conveyed how important bo- — these components that the
President is announcing today are to addressing the threat of ghost
guns.  
  
Q    Hey, Jen.  Just to follow up: Did the President get a commitment
from Prime Minister Modi not to accelerate or increase imports of
Russian energy?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I’ll let Prime Minister Modi and the Indians speak to that. 
Again, it’s 1 to 2 percent at this point in time.  It is not — they
import 10 percent from the United States.  It is not a violation of any
sanctions or anything along those lines.  It was a constructive, direct
conversation.  But I will let them speak for themselves.  
  
Q    And secondly, the President said he wanted to meet Prime Minister
Modi in Tokyo on or about May 24th.  What else can you tell us about
this trip?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  The President is looking forward to going to Asia at some
point, but I don’t have any more details at this point in time. 
Clearly, he’s excited since he talked about it today.  
  
Q    Clearly.  And lastly, any details about this announcement tomorrow
in Iowa?  Is it related to ethanol?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have any more details at this point in time.  As you
all know, we are taking a range of steps to reduce the price of gas to
move us toward a long-term, more clean energy economy, but I expect
we’ll have more of a preview for you later today.  
  
Q    Thank you.  Thank you.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  Back to the conversation with Modi — did the
President urge Modi to speak out more forcefully against the Russian
invasion?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, we have seen the Indians do exactly that more
recently, as they did as it relates to the horrific photos that we saw
around Bucha.  We’ve seen them take steps to provide humanitarian
assistance and a range of assistance.  But it is something we always
encourage leaders to do: to speak out, to be vocal to ensure they’re on
the right side of history.  
  
But this was a constructive call.  It was a productive call.  It was —
it’s a relationship that is vitally important to the United States and
to the President.  I would not see it as an adversarial call.  
  
Q    And then, I understand you want to let the Indians speak for
themselves, but was the President seeking a promise from Modi that he
wouldn’t look to increase oil purchases from Russia?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, we are — the President both conveyed that we are here
to help them diversify their means of importing oil.  Again, our — the
imports from the United States are already significant — or much bigger
than the imports that they get from Russia.  And we, of course — the
President conveyed very clearly that it is not in their interest to
increase that.  
  
But beyond that, I would let the Indian leaders speak for themselves.  
  
Q    And then —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Oh, go ahead.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    And then, finally, I’m wondering if — you know, last night,
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, told “60 Minutes” that the
Ukrainian military has recordings of conversations between Russian
troops, talking about committing atrocities that would qualify as war
crimes.  I’m wondering if anyone in the U.S. government has been able to
listen to these intercepts or whether the U.S. government has similar
intercepts.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I don’t have anything to confirm on that front from
here.  But what I would reiterate is something Jake Sullivan said last
week, which is that, as we’re looking to provide data and information to
war crimes investigations — of which there are a range of options
currently underway: the OSCE, obviously the ICC, the Ukrainian Special
Prosecutor is also gathering information — we’re going to provide any
data and information we can, and we’re going to encourage other
countries to do exactly that.  
  
We’ve already called a range of these action we’ve seen “war crimes.” 
That is important, but there’s also going to be an investigative step
where all of this will be — will be fed into.  That can also take some
time.   
  
Q    If this ended up at The Hague, is that something that the White
House would support?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We’re not going to prejudge which format or forum that it
can take.  There are a range of different options that history has
utilized, whether it’s I- — the ICC or the OSCE.  And basically, an
international fora is probably the appropriate forum, but we’re not
going to predetermine what that looks like.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, Jen.  Does the U.S. intend to return its diplomatic
presence to Kyiv?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  That is, of course, our objective over the course of time,
but we’re going to have to assess when it’s the right time to do exactly
that.  
  
Q    Is it considering moving back into Ukraine, potentially to Lviv,
sooner rather than later?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have a prediction of that at this point.  Obviously,
we — it’s in our interest to have a diplomatic presence on the ground. 
But that is an assessment made by the State Department, made through the
prism of security considerations.  And sometimes it’s a smaller presence
that gets larger, but they are really the appropriate entity to speak to
that.  
  
Q    Is there any concern that if the U.S. does not get its diplomatic
presence back sooner, that it’ll appear that we’re leading from behind,
as you’ve got the European Union, I believe the Czech Republic, Italy —
a lot of countries are coming forward and saying that they’re going back
to Ukraine, and the U.S. hasn’t done it yet.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I would say that the most important thing the United States
has done and continues to do is lead the entire global coalition in
standing up against Russia; and ensuring we are providing military,
security assistance, expediting that, tapping into not only our own
resources but the resources of countries around the world; and leading
the world in a package of economic sanctions that has had a crippling
impact on the Russian economy.  Those are the most important factors.   
  
Q    Has the President asked to go to Ukraine?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I’m not going to get into private conversations.  What I
will tell you is we’re not currently planning a trip by the President of
the United States to Ukraine.  What is most important to the Ukrainian
leadership is that we are expediting weapons and getting them the
assistance and security systems they need.  And that is what our focus
is on.  
  
Q    And who decides if the President goes to Ukraine or not?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  In what way?  
  
Q    He had said, when he was in Poland, that he expressed interest in
going to Ukraine, but “they wouldn’t let me.”  So I’m wondering who
advises that.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I’m not going to get into private considerations internally
on that front.  
  
Q    Okay.  And then, on Title 42, you said over the weekend that the
administration agrees more needs to be done; the immigration system is
broken.  This was in response to a question about —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  
  
Q    — Democrats who don’t want to lift it right now.  You invited
Republicans to work with the White House to get something done on
immigration, but has the White House actually reached out to any
Republicans to try to move this forward recently?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  It has been a longstanding open invitation.  Any Republican
who wants to work with us on immigration reform, you’re invited; let’s
have a conversation.  We have not seen an expression of that interest
across the board.  
  
Q    So you’re wanting Republicans to go to you.  The White House is not
reaching out, then, any (inaudible)?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We have conversations with Democrats and Republicans all the
time, Jacqui.  But I think it’s clear what we’re seeing from Republicans
is an effort to politicize this and not fix what we all recognize is an
outdated and broken system.  
  
Q    And one last question.  You said on Friday that the Vice President
was masked indoors all day, but the White House tweeted a video showing
her standing over the President without a mask on.  Can you explain what
happened there?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say that the Vice President and the President
and all of us abide by what the CDC protocols are.  It was an emotional
day.  It was a historic day.  And there were moments when she was not
wearing a mask inside, including in a photo.  But she was wearing it
99.9 percent of the time.  
  
I would note the President and the Vice President have both tested
negative in the last 24 hours.  And, you know, we have felt and made the
decision it’s important for — to share it with all of you when there are
close contacts; that’s exactly what we did.   
  
Why it’s of interest to the public, I think, is — and you guys can agree
or disagree with me — is because the four principals — the public has a
right to know and an interest in knowing when the four principals have —
have exposure or close-contact exposure to any individuals who have
COVID.  
  
The Vice President is now post- — five days post-exposure.  She tested
negative.  
  
Oh, go ahead.  You — oh, sorry.  I’ll go to Kaitlan.  Go ahead.  Go
ahead, sorry.  I jumped around.  I didn’t mean to.  I — go ahead.  
  
Q    Speaking of India’s response to Russia’s invasion, they have
abstained from several votes at the United Nations, condemning the
invasion, suspending Russia from the Human Rights Council.  Did
President Biden raise that during their call today?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have any more details beyond what was raised or
briefed out in the background call.  Obviously, the call concluded.   We
just did a briefing call.  I don’t have any more details beyond that.  
  
Q    So you can’t say if President Biden asked them to condemn the
invasion?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  They have condemned the recent horrific atrocities we saw in
Bucha.  And certainly, as we see more, we expect them to do exactly that
as well.  
  
Q    What does the U.S. assess this new Russian general overseeing the
invasion will mean for it going forward?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say our view is that even a changeover in
personnel or leadership at the top is not going to erase the fact that
this is a strategic failure for Russia.   
  
What we should all be aware of, and we are certainly aware of, is this
is a general who was already responsible for overseeing atrocities in
Syria, and that we would expect that it would be a continuation of the
type of atrocities we’ve already seen take place in Ukraine.  
  
But again, they have not — it has not gone as President Putin has
planned, and we don’t expect a change in personnel would change that.  
  
Q    Are you concerned it could get worse?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think, Kaitlan, separate from any change of
leadership at the top, what we have seen or we expect is: As they have
coalesced their sort — their resources and their — you know, all of the
resources that they have into eastern — most of them, I should say —
into eastern Ukraine, we certainly expect that they will seek to
surround and overwhelm Ukrainian forces in that part of the country; we
expect Russia will continue to launch air and missile strikes across the
rest of the country to cause military and economic damage; and we expect
this stage of the conflict could last a long time.  
  
And we should have no illusions that Russia is going to adjust their
tactics and make them less brutal.  And certainly, changes in leadership
reflect a continuation of the type of atrocities we’ve seen or the type
of approach that we’ve seen and we’ve also predicted from the
beginning.  
  
Q    And just to follow on Jacqui’s question, what is the threshold for
reopening the U.S. embassy in Kyiv?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I’d point you to the State Department if they have any more
specifics they want to outline publicly.  
  
Obviously, we want to have a diplomatic re- — presence on the ground;
that’s always going to be our objective.   
  
Go ahead.  Oh, Kelly, go ahead.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    It’s been years since there’s been a confirmed ATF director.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    And what do you think will be different now with this new
nomination the President is putting forward?  And do you think the
absence of that kind of leadership has had any part in the increase in
gun violence the country has seen?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I — it’s hard for — it’s hard for me to make a
conclusion or us to make a conclusion on that from here.  
  
But what I — what we know is that having confirmed leadership leading
any agency, including one as important as the ATF, always is going to
make the systems, the processes, the ability to get policymaking done
more efficient and effective.   
  
And there’s no question it’s a net positive to have someone confirmed to
lead ATF.  
  
I would say that, you know, Steve, who is our nominee — or announced
nominee — is a highly qualified candidate with decades of law
enforcement experience, including through partnerships with the ATF, to
prosecute complex cases and take down violent criminal gangs.  He’s
received bipartisan support from law enforcement leaders.  He was
confirmed unanimously when he was nominated to serve as a federal
prosecutor.  
  
And our view is that if Republicans are about getting tough on crime, as
we are, and keeping our communities safe, they should support a career
prosecutor like Steve Dettelbach, who can make ATF more effective in
getting guns off our streets and stopping criminals.   
  
And it’s in all of our interest to have a confirmed nominee, and we
think he is eminently qualified to do exactly that.  
  
Q    And just to follow on the issue of the Vice President and the
masking: A couple of times, you’ve cited “emotional day,” “important
day,” “important role” she was playing.  You’re not saying that those
things are reasons to not follow CDC guidance?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Absolutely not.  And I appreciate your question on that. 
What I was conveying is that, you know, while she has worn a mask — as
is protocol and as is our expectation of everyone from the Vice
President, the President, all of us on down if you have a close contact
— that there was a photo, as Jacqui said, and there — there are moments
when she was human and she didn’t have a pho- — mask on in a photo.   
  
But she has worn the mask.  And certainly, that is what we want to
convey to the American people.  
  
Q    Is it because of the photo?  Because it’s an important day and the
photo will live for decades that — we all understand — I mean, I’m
wearing a mask today; I don’t always wear a mask.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.    
  
Q    Is that the reason?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I think it was a decision made in the moment.  But it
doesn’t mean that we don’t all try to be model citizens here and abide
by what the CDC protocols are on requirements.   
  
And I conveyed and wanted to reiterate that she did test negative, in
case those of you had not seen that, because she now is at that five-day
past the close contact.   
  
Go ahead.    
  
Q    Oh, thank you.  Pakistan’s Prime Minister, Imran Khan, was deposed
this weekend following the no-confidence vote in Parliament.  What is
the administration’s reaction to those developments?  And does President
Biden have any plans to speak with the country’s new Prime Minister,
Shehbaz Sharif?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  So, we support the peaceful upholding of constitutional and
democratic principles.  We don’t support one political party over
another.  And we certainly support the principles of rule of law and
equal justice under the law.    
  
We value our longstanding cooperation with Pakistan, have always viewed
a prosperous and democratic Pakistan as critical to U.S. interests. 
That remains unchanged regardless of who leadership is.  
  
In terms of a future call, I don’t have anything to predict at this
point in time.  Obviously, we stay in close touch with them at a range
of levels.   
  
Q    And then one more question on the President’s call with Prime
Minister Modi.  Was India’s acquisition of the S-400 missile defense
system from Russia a topic of discussion?  And do you have any updates
on whether the U.S. would impose sanctions that would be triggered under
CAATSA or issue a waiver should India go through with that purchase?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah, I — I don’t have an update.  As I said, kind of, to an
earlier question on the CAATSA waiver that would be required, I don’t
have an update at this point in time.  I can see if there’s more to
report out to you before the end of the day.    
  
Go ahead.    
  
Q    Tomorrow is CPI day.  It’s probably, obviously, going to capture
the start of the war and pretty significant spikes in energy.  Can you
give us a sense of what you’re expecting and what, if any, change this
will make for what talks may or may not be going on with the Hill on
what pieces may or may not be passed of a bill that may or may not have
a name?  I don’t know (inaudible).  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sounds very hypothetical and hopeful.  Okay.  
  
Q    How high do you — how high do you expect these numbers to be?  And
—  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure, and —  
  
Q    — is there any impact on the strategy to pass what you believe to
be —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.    
  
Q    — inflation-cooling measures —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yes —  
  
Q    — in the medium term?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  — I understand your question.   
  
So, because of the actions we’ve taken to address Putin — the Putin
price hike, we are in a better place than we were last month.  But we
expect March CPA — CPI headline inflation to be extraordinarily elevated
due to Putin’s price hike.  And we expect a large difference between
core and headline inflation, reflecting the global disruptions in energy
and food markets.   
  
A core infla- — inflation doesn’t include energy and food prices;
headline inflation does.  And, of course, we know that core inflation,
you know, energy — the impact of energy, of course, on oil prices, gas
prices, we expect that to continue to reflect what we’ve seen the
increases be over the course of this invasion.   
  
And just as an example: Since President Putin’s military buildup
accelerated in January, average gas prices are up more than 80 cents,
most of the increase occurred in the month of March.  And at times, gas
prices were more than a dollar above pre-invasion level.  So, that
roughly 25 percent increase in gas prices will drive tomorrow’s
inflation reading.  And certainly, it’s not a surprise to us, but we
certainly think it will be reflected.   
  
And in March, again, to give you a point of comparison, the average cost
of a barrel of oil was around $110.  That’s compared to about $75 at the
beginning of the year.  So, we expect this to all be reflected as we
look at the data tomorrow.    
  
I will say that anytime there is heightened monthly data or inflation
reporting or numbers, it is a reminder to us, to our allies on the Hill,
and hopefully to many of the American people that we need to do more to
reduce costs for the American people.    
  
We have, of course, legislation that could do exactly that: cut the
costs of childcare, of healthcare, of eldercare.  These all have
enormous impacts on people’s budgets; on when they’re, you know, doing
those calculations at their kitchen table.    
And — and certainly this data will be a reminder of the need to do
something and take additional steps.   
  
Q    And, Jen, so he —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.   
  
Q    — the President signed the PNTR bill on Friday.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yes.  
  
Q    Do you have anything to share on next steps for that?  In other
words, how quickly would tariffs on Russian goods change across the
(inaudible)?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah, that’s a great question.  Let me see if I can get to a
more — how quickly it would be implemented — you know, when they would
see the tariffs is you’re asking?  
  
Q    Yeah, correct.    
  
MS. PSAKI:  Okay.    
  
Q    And finally, the announcement this afternoon on guns.  Of course,
the backdrop to this is a lot of cities are seeing significant instances
of gun crime —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.   
  
Q    — or, sort of, violent crime more generally.  Can you give us an
update of where the administration stands on a push for a police reform
package to pass through Congress?  Are those talks ongoing at all or is
the calculus that the, sort of, escalation in crime has made it even
more difficult to pass a police reform package right now?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say, first, on gun violence — which we do
recognize as an enormous problem and, of course, a driver of what we’ve
seen as the rising — rising rates of crime across the country for some
time — you know, we are going to continue to call on Congress to do
more.  We’re not going to wait while lives are being lost and when more
reforms need to be put in place.   
  
So, yeah, I mean, I think there’s, like, kind of two components here. 
There’s obviously police reform.  There were bipartisan conversations. 
We sort of paused on our review of an executive order for that period of
time out of respect for that process.  Obviously, that’s not a process
that is rapidly moving forward.  We’re continuing to review and have
every intention of the President signing an executive order on police
reform.  
  
I would note that we’ve also taken steps from the Department of Justice
to ban chokeholds and take other steps that we have the capacity to do
from the federal government.  But in order to make reforms impactful
over the long term and more expansive, we need legislation.  
  
On guns, you know, we have also taken steps.  The President has done
more to fight gun violence and keep our communities safe than any
President in history in his first year in office.  This is obviously an
issue that is close to his heart, something he’s passionate about and
has been for decades.   
  
And choking off the supply of guns being used in crimes, including by
cracking down on gun traffickers and firearms dealers who are selling
guns illegally, is one of the steps we’ve taken.   
  
But also, we’ve taken steps to put more cops on the beat, investing in
proven community-based programs to make our streets safer.  Doing all of
this to prop up, while also supporting reforms, local police — make sure
they have the funding they need, while also putting in place, in
whatever capacity we have, gun reform measures, as the President is
doing today, to help address some of the rising impacts like ghost
guns.  
  
Q    Yes, but is it your assessment that, right now, there’s no appetite
in Congress to pass the George Floyd policing bill?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I — I don’t want to speak for Congress.  And so, they
can speak for that and what they think the potential is.  And obviously,
we’re going to continue to advocate for that, to push for that, to press
for that.  But we’re not going to wait to take additional steps that we
have the executive authority to take.   
  
Go ahead.   
  
Q    Jen, if I can circle back to the call that the President had
earlier today with the prime minister of India.  A senior administration
official did brief us earlier today and said that “We haven’t asked
India to do anything in particular.”  This was on energy imports.  But
then later said, “We don’t think <s>Russia</s> \[India\] should
accelerate imports from Russian oil.”  So can you tell us, did the
President explicitly ask not for an acceleration of Russian oil?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  It’s more, as it was articulated — and I just articulated
it, I hope — maybe not clearly — about conveying that we don’t think
it’s in their interest to import more Russian oil.  They’re only
importing 1 to 2 percent at this point in time.    
  
We’re here to diversify and help them diversify, as we’ve done with
other European countries, should they make that choice to do.  
  
They’re not violating any sanctions by importing oil.  It’s a decision
we made from the United States, but we also recognize different
countries have their own calculations.  
  
Q    But it was not an explicit ask?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  It was conveying exactly the — how I just described it.  
  
Q    Okay.  Can I ask you one other question on inflation?  You were
referring, just a minute ago, to the consequences of Russia’s invasion
of Ukraine and Vladimir Putin.  I know we’ve often heard the
administration refer to “Putin’s price hike.”    
  
I just got back — actually, last week, I was out in Michigan talking to
a lot of voters who told me that they feel like the inflation has
predated the war.  And I’m curious how the administration just, you
know, split — squares this all together.  I mean, many voters do feel
that inflation, correctly so, predates the war and it can’t all be
blamed on Vladimir Putin.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We’ve never — we talked about inflation long before there
was an invasion.  But we also know that factually, if you look at the
data, the average gas prices are up $1, 80 cents — 80 cents to $1.  It’s
about a 25 percent, we’ve seen, increase in gas prices since the start
of this invasion.  And we know energy prices is a big driver of the
inflation data.   
  
So, that’s if you look at the economic data.  It doesn’t mean — I’m not
suggesting every person in this country looks at data and assesses in
that way.  They assess how they feel and what the impacts are on
them.    
  
We’ve long talked about, since at least I started this job since the
President came into office, the impacts of the pandemic on supply
chains, how that’s impacted a range of costs, and steps we’re taking to
address those, whether it’s ensuring there’s — are goods moving through
ports or other steps we can take to ensure there are — we fund chips
manufacturing, because autos and the production of autos — and maybe
this was a case or an issue when you were in Michigan — is def- — has
definitely been a driver over the case \[sic\] of time.  So they’re —
the course of time.  
  
So there’s a lot of different issues.  But we have — there’s no question
that energy prices continue to be, month by month, a driver of
inflationary data.  And we know that since the start of this invasion,
because of the reduction of oil and the supply in the global oil market,
that that — from Putin’s invasion — that that is a big driver.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Jen, thanks so much.  Just, sort of, circling back to Kelly’s
question —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — about a new ATF nominee: Have — can you describe any outreach
that’s been done to the Senate to ensure that the confirmation process
goes more smoothly than it did to the last, sort of, selection?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, because we’re just announcing him today, I would
expect it would be from here forward, right?   
  
Obviously, there are notifications that happen in advance of any
announcement, but certainly we feel that he is somebody who has been
supported from a bi- — had bipartisan support in the past, is broadly
supported by a number of — of police groups, and that he’s an excellent
candidate to lead — to lead ATF.   
  
But I wouldn’t validate a process going awry.  I think it’s more about
whether or not Republicans in Congress feel that there should be a head
of the ATF.  And we believe there should be, and this is a person who is
eminently qualified to do that.    
  
Q    Did the notification process include Senator Manchin’s office?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I’m not going to get into specifics of the notification
process.  But obviously, since he’s just making this announcement today,
I would expect that the outreach picks up from here.  
  
Q    Okay.  And then, just on the — the President was photographed over
the weekend in Washington, D.C., wearing a mask.  I just wanted to — if
you could go through when he masks and when he doesn’t.  It would appear
that he did not have a close contact, but correct me if that’s wrong.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  He did not, but we all make decisions.  Some people in here
are wearing masks to — wear masks to make them more comfortable, or
because they chose to that day, or maybe they’re going to be around
family members or people who may be immunocompromised or vulnerable. 
And the President makes that decision, as we all do as well.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Jen, could I just ask a — kind of a broader question related to the
Modi meeting?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.    
  
Q    You’ve talked a lot about the President’s leadership in terms of
assembling a global coalition against Russia.  But that global coalition
isn’t really global, in the sense that there are many countries out
there — India is one of them — that hasn’t really joined, hasn’t really
taken a side.  They’ve sort of adopted a neutral stance — as Kaitlan
mentioned, the votes in the U.N., including the most recent one on
kicking Russia out of the U.N. Human Rights Council.    
  
So, is Ru- — I mean, do you — do you all consider India an example of a
kind of failure to broaden the coalition to countries like India beyond
the sort of core European countries?  
  
And if so, what — you know, was this call used or just does the
President see pressure to use a call like this to expand that global
coalition even further so that Russia doesn’t have the kind of lifelines
that it — that it needs to escape — to escape the sanctions and the
like?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say building more than 50 percent — far more
than 50 percent of the world’s GDP into a global coalition is hardly a
failure.  I don’t think anyone would call that a failure.   
  
But what India has done to date — and our objective and part of the
objective of a phone call like this is to have a diplomatic conversation
to build on this — right? — recognizing that countries go at different
paces and — taking steps to support countries like Ukraine.    
  
What — what India has done to date is they have condemned the killings
of civilians in Bucha.  They have supported, they’ve called — they’ve
supported calls for an independent investigation.  They’ve provided over
90 tons of humanitarian relief material to Ukraine and its neighbors to
include medicine and other essential relief.  Earlier in the conflict,
they also used its resources to evacuate almost 150 foreign nationals
for 18 different countries.   
  
So, part of our objectives now is to build on that and to encourage them
to do more.  And that’s why it’s important to have leader-to-leader
conversations.   
  
Go ahead.    
  
Q    The mask mandate for public transportation like trains, buses, and
airplanes —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — expires next week.  Does the White House or the administration
have any plans on extending that?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, it’s a decision made by the CDC, so they will make
that decision.  And I’m not aware of a decision being made at this
point, but I would certainly point you to them.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    I’d like to switch gears here.  Do you have an update on Brittney
Griner?  Russian state media reporting that her detention has been
extended at least until May 19th.  And also, is it still a strategy not
to talk about her here or limit talk about her case to keep from
politicizing it?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  So, the State Department will have the most up-to-date
information.  I think it’s been out for some time — the extension of her
detention there.   
  
We typically don’t talk about cases in advance of having a Privacy Act
waiver.  Once we had a Privacy Act waiver, we can talk about it more.  
  
But historically — and having formerly served at the State Department —
it is not typically constructive to talk a great deal about these cases
of individuals who are detained; it can, historically, impact our
ability to bring them home.  And that, of course, is our objective.  
  
But the State Department makes those determinations.  They are in
closest touch with efforts to bring her home, and that certainly is our
objective.  
  
Q    And I have to ask: Trevor Reed or Paul Whelan?  
  
    MS. PSAKI:  Again, you know, these are of course individuals — and
we want to do everything we can and we are doing everything we can to
bring them home, including raising their cases at every opportunity.   
  
But typically, it does not benefit the cases to talk publicly about
these cases, and I would use evidence of some individuals we’ve been
able to bring home from a variety of places in the last several months
where we didn’t talk a lot about them in advance.   
  
Our goal is to bring them home.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  On the President’s conversation with Modi, I’m
wondering if the fact that Mayor Garcetti doesn’t have — appear to have
the votes for confirmation right now, is there any concern around that,
especially given how much the U.S. wants to press India not to cooperate
with Russia?  Was that — you know, the question of his confirmation
discussed?  And (inaudible) —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I’m not aware of it being a topic during the call.  
  
Q    Does the President still support his nomination?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yep.  He does.  
  
Q    And then, is there any reaction on the French election and the
outcome with Le Pen and —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, there’s not an outcome yet.  It goes to a runoff.  So,
obviously, at this point, we’re not going to speak to that.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you.  In the call, Prime Minister Modi thanked President
Biden for organizing this call.  Can you give us a broader context into
why this call was organized by President Biden and at this particular
time?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Well, I would say we — India is an incredibly
important partner.  We consult very closely with India on a range of
issues.  And this was an opportunity to discuss — work very closely and
discuss the consequences of Russia’s unprovoked and unjustified war
against Ukraine.   
  
This builds on discussions that have happened — obviously at a lower
level than Prime Minister Modi and President Biden — but certainly is a
reflection of the value the President sees in leader-to-leader diplomacy
and having conversations that are candid, that are direct, but also
provide, hopefully, a pathway to continuing to build on the steps we’ve
seen India take in recent weeks.  
  
Q    Given the situation that (inaudible) with Pakistan, what is your
assessment of the situation there, given that the (inaudible)?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  In terms of the new leadership?  Or what aspects?  
  
Q    The security aspect of Pakistan (inaudible).  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have a new assessment from here to offer.  I would
point you to the Defense Department.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  Several Parkland parents — including Manuel Oliver,
who was taken into police custody at the White House in February while
attempting to get the President’s attention — will be attending today’s
Rose Garden event.  Does President Biden have any plans to meet with
Oliver or any of the other Parkland parents at the gun violence
prevention event?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I will check.  I don’t believe there are additional
meetings.  But obviously, inviting these incredibly courageous parents
who have experienced the worst thing that can happen to a parent in
their lives is a reflection of his respect and all of our respect for
the work they’ve done, their advocacy, and certainly an acknowledgement
of that.   
  
Q    And yesterday — on a separate topic: Yesterday, Larry Summers
warned that a recession could be on the way in the next two years, based
on the inflation and unemployment rates.  Is the White House also
concerned that a recession could hit in the next two years?  And what do
you make of his prescription of tariff reduction, Strategic Petroleum
Reserve release, adjusting immigration flows, and the federal government
purchasing things more inexpensively?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say a number of those things we’re already
doing.  But I would say, to your earlier question, we of course continue
to assess our — the state of our economy, the health of our economy.    
  
That’s not a projection we have made from here.  We believe that the
economy is strong.  We have created more jobs last year than any year in
American history.  We saw the unemployment rate at 3.6 percent last
month.  And we know that as we’re continuing through an economic
recovery, that there are areas that we need to focus on, including
bringing down costs for the American people.  
  
But we are continuing to assess.  We have not made the — that projection
from U.S. government economists that — that Larry Summers has made.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  On the guns, Biden’s approval rating on crime is at
34 percent per some of the latest polling.  That’s at the same time, as
you know, that background checks have a lot of approval from the
American public, as well as there is 63 percent that have supported the
ghost gun regulation that you guys are finalizing today.  What’s causing
the disconnect there?  Is there any plan to change the White House’s
messaging, moving forward, from the events today?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would first say that there’s nothing the President
would love more than signing background check legislation into law. 
That’s something he has been a leader, a champion, and an advocate for
throughout his career, inclu- — and also banning assault weapons.    
  
He’d love to be having an event in the Rose Garden today signing
legislation into law.  And you’re right: It’s hugely popular.  It
doesn’t make a lot of sense except for the hold the NRA still seems to
have over components of government at this point in time — not our
government, but people who are elected.  
  
So, I wouldn’t say our messaging has changed.  I think it’s important —
and that’s always been the case.  But ghost guns, we know, are an area
where we can take steps to help — through executive authority and
through executive actions, as the President is doing today — to put in
place background checks, to put in place a requirement of serial
numbers, to bring them more in line with a range of other guns.  But
we’d love to get background check — broad background check legislation
signed.  
  
Q    And then I just wanted to ask you: Do you have any response to the
news that Jared Kushner secured a $2 billion investment from a fund led
by Saudi Crown Prince — (inaudible) by the Saudi Crown Prince?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have any comment from here, but maybe they’ll have a
comment.  
  
Go ahead.   
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  Going back to the Ukrainian-Russian war, Austrian
Chancellor Karl Nehammer is meeting with Putin in Moscow.  What does the
administration have to say about that? What does he — what does the
President think that will achieve?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think we’ve encouraged or supported any efforts at
diplomacy.  We’ve, though, encouraged anyone who is speaking with or
meeting with — however they’re engaging — with President Putin to also
engage with Ukrainians.  They are the country that is being invaded
right now.  And so, if you’re going to play a role in diplomacy, that is
an especially important component.  
  
I would expect, at some point, some — we’ll get a readout of their
conversation.  So I can’t predict if it’s constructive or not.  
  
Q    And a follow-up on Pakistan, if you will: The new Prime Minister
Sharif — what arrangements does the administration have to contact him? 
And what’s moving forward on that?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  You mean, whether there will be a call from the President?  
  
Q    Right.  And also —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have — oh, go ahead.  
  
Q    — what expectations are there for his new administration too?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have a prediction of a call at this point in time. 
I mean, obviously, those are assessments made day by day and especially
after new leaders are elected, of course.   
  
We have a long — a strong and abiding relationship with Pakistan — an
important security relationship — and that will continue under new
leaders.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Hey.  Thanks, Jen.  So you’ve said that 2 percent of the oil coming
from Russia going — is imported into India.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  One to two.  
  
Q    One to two.  That’s about 16 million barrels.  So far, according to
contracts, India has imported 13 million barrels since the war began —
or since the invasion began of Ukraine.  Why not just come out and ask
them to help isolate the Russian president?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I think the President conveying, our Deputy National
Security Advisor conveying they should take steps — we encourage them to
take steps — to diversify; we’re here to help and assist in that — and
also conveying it’s not in their interest to increase the import of
Russian oil — I think that speaks for itself.  
  
But we also know different countries are going to make decisions based
on what their needs are economically and what the needs are for the
people in their country.  
  
We have, of course, banned importing — the import of oil here.  Other
countries have not done that.  So it’s not a violation of any sanctions
or any requirement or request from our end.  
  
Q    On inflation — so you’re saying that because of the President’s
work then, we will see in the core inflation — without gas and food,
you’ll see that core come down, and you’ll see the results of his work
in that inflation number?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I was making a prediction not of that, but of the fact that
you’re going to see — because of the increase in the price of oil,
you’re going to see an increase in the overarching headline number.   
  
Q    But the core inflation — you’re saying that the President’s
(inaudible) —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  The core inflation, as you know, because you cover this very
closely, does impact a range of factors that we’re still working to
address.  So — but I was making a prediction about the headline
component.   
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Okay.  Thanks, everyone.  See you tomorrow —  
  
Q    Thank you, Jen.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  — or only if you’re going to Iowa, I guess.  (Laughter.)  
  
Q    Are you going?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  For those — yes, I wouldn’t miss it.  Been to more state
fairs than most.  
  
1:54 P.M. EDT
