---
date: '2022-04-01'
modified_time: 2022-04-01 19:06:15-04:00
published_time: 2022-04-01 18:49:38-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/04/01/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-and-member-of-the-council-of-economic-advisers-jared-bernstein-april-1-2022/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Jen\_Psaki and Member of the Council of\
  \ Economic Advisers Jared Bernstein, April 1,\_2022"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

2:41 P.M. EDT  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Hi, everyone.  Okay, on my first day back, I am delivering
Jared Bernstein to all of you, who we are thrilled to have to give some
brief remarks on the economic news today and answer some questions.  And
then we will do a briefing as long as we can before the President
departs.  
  
With that, I will turn it over to Jared.  
  
MR. BERNSTEIN:  Thank you so much, Jen.  Today’s jobs report provides
yet another indicator that, as the President said this morning, quote,
“our economy has gone from being on the mend to being on the move.”   
  
In the first conversation I had with the President when he was a
candidate, he explained his view that we faced a dual health and
economic crisis, and that we could not attack one without attacking
both.   
  
That intervention became the American Rescue Plan.  And the historically
strong labor market we see in today’s jobs report is a testament to not
just the President’s correct diagnosis and prescription, but his
insistence that the plan be quickly and efficiently implemented to get
COVID and economic relief — shots in arms and checks in pockets — into
the system.   
  
Today we learned that we’ve got an unemployment rate of 3.6 percent, a
tick above its pre-pandemic rate of 3.5.  We’ve got an historically
unprent- — unprecedented run, with data back to 1939, of 11 months in a
row with job gains north of 400,000, yielding an also unprecedented 7.9
million jobs since President Biden took office.  
  
We have — in one of the most welcome trends we at CEA are seeing in the
job market — increased labor force participation, and we have strong
wage growth, particularly for middle- and lower-paid workers.  
  
Getting under the hood of the report a bit: As you know, at the Council
of Economic Advisers, we’re careful to not over-interpret one month of
data, and therefore we always cite the three-month average, which in
this case is the first quarter of this year.  
  
With the upward revisions in today’s report, the average monthly gain
over the quarter is 562,000 jobs per month.  
  
Now, to provide some context for that growth pace, last month marked 23
months since employment hit its pandemic low.  At a comparable point in
the last expansion, the three-month av- — three-month average of job
growth was 229,000, making the current jobs recovery more than twice as
fast.  
  
The Black unemployment rate ticked down by four tenths to 6.2 percent,
just two tenths above its pre-pandemic rate.  
  
As noted, one of the most important indicators in the current job market
is labor force participation.  Rising participation rates will
facilitate a closer alignment of strong labor demand with labor supply,
helping to support working families and to boost our real economic
output.  
  
Last month, labor force participation ticked up by a tenth overall and
by a significant three tenths for the closely watched “prime-age
workers” category, which focuses on workers age 25 to 54.  It doesn’t
mean that people who are over 54 are no longer “prime,” but that’s a
different discussion.  (Laughter.)  
  
The prime-age participation rate in March was just a half a point below
its pre-pandemic rate, and it is up by an historically strong 1.4
percentage points since President Biden took office.   
  
In other words, last month’s bump was not a monthly blip but is part of
an ongoing trend.  It’s a trend — and also, in a trend that’s highly
consistent with President Biden’s “Make It In America” Agenda, factory
employment was up 38,000 last month and 473,000 since the President took
office.  
  
In other words, we are in the midst of a — of the fastest business cycle
recovery of manufacturing employment in more than 50 years.  
  
Now, as you know, we economists are always looking for policy lessons
that we can apply to our work as we deal with a complex, ever-changing,
and ever-challenging global economy.   
  
In that regard, today’s job — jobs market provides a clear lesson. 
American employers and workers have taken every headwind thrown at them
and just kept humming along.  As the President said today, quote, “The
headwinds…of Delta, Omicron, and even \[the\] war in Europe” have not
been able to derail our job — our record jobs recovery.  End quote.  
  
It is unequivocally clear that one of the most important policies behind
that result is the American Rescue Plan.  
  
Of course, our work is not done, and we are actively addressing
challenges faced by American households, especially uncomfortably high
inflation.   
  
As you know, just yesterday the President authorized the release of 1
million barrels per day for the next six months from our Strategic
Petroleum Reserve, the largest release from our national reserves in
history.  And this morning, countries across the world agreed to release
tens of millions of additional barrels into the market.  
  
This work is, of course, highly complementary to our near-term work in
speeding the pace at which goods move from ship-to-shelf and to our
longer-term agenda, including the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law’s
projects — projects to strengthen and increase the resiliency of our
infrastructure and supply chains.  
  
That, in turn, is complemented by the Bipartisan Innovation Act, which
is geared towards making more in America, strengthening supply chains,
and breaking up bottlenecks like semiconductor chips that are raising
prices for consumers.   
  
Our legislative agenda is also focused on reducing some of the toughest
strains on family budgets, including prescription drugs, the costs of
child and elder care, healthcare premiums, the cost of housing, and
education.  
  
But the fact that all of this work is occurring against the backdrop of
one of the tightest, most welcoming labor markets on record is both a
testament to the President’s policy agenda and to the unceasing energy
and efforts of the American people.  
  
Thank you, and we’ll move to your questions.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  All right.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you.  Thanks for doing this.  The President said today that
he thinks part of the impact of this will be easing the supply chain
crunches.  With more people in jobs, it’ll smooth out that — I wondered
your view on that.   
  
And in particular, we’re seeing new COVID lockdowns in China.  That has,
in the past, sort of fueled supply chain crises down the line.  What is
your view on that right now, as we sit here?  
  
MR. BERNSTEIN:  Let me start with — let me start with the first part of
your question.  And I’m glad you asked it because it’s one of the more
important, kind of, under-the-hood indicators in today’s jobs report
that should really get the attention of anyone who’s follos- — following
the very issues you’ve raised.   
  
One of the things that needs to happen in this labor market is to the
very strong labor demand that in my comments, as you say, as you — as
you heard, I associated with some of the very important benefits of the
Rescue Plan.  Very strong labor demand needs to better align with labor
supply.   
  
The way that happens is through increased labor force participation
rates.  Now, as I mentioned, in March, that ticked up by a tenth of a
percent, but I also cited what we call the prime-age rate, which is for
workers 25 to 54.  Labor economists like to look at that prime-age rate
because it takes out teenagers and retirees and looks at — at folks who
are most connected, typically, to the job market.  That ticked up three
tenths of a percent in March.    
  
But more importantly — and again, we have long stressed that especially
when you’re looking at these monthly numbers, you’ve got to look to the
trend.  That indicator is up by 1.4 points since this President took
office.  And if you look at the pace at which the labor force
participation rate is increasing, it is faster in this recovery than any
of the past four or five recoveries.   
  
So that kind of development better aligns the very strong labor demand
with labor supply in ways that will ease some of the — some of the price
pressures, as the President referenced today.    
  
You asked about — oh, China.  
  
Q    Whether that can counteract — you know, what is the net effect of
China locking down but more Americans being in the workforce on the
supply chains in the U.S.?  
  
MR. BERNSTEIN:  Sure.  So, these — these are precisely the kinds of
issues that we have been tracking ever since this pandemic came on the
scene.  We know that we are still in a — an economy where the pandemic —
a global economy where the pandemic is playing a role.   
  
But as I stressed in my comments today — and the President said the same
thing.  I guess I’m saying the same thing he said, to be more accurate. 
If you look at, you know, “the headwinds…of Delta, Omicron, and even war
in Europe” have not been able to derail our record jobs recovery.  
  
Yes, there’s uncertainty, there are headwinds, and some of those
headwinds are amplified by Putin’s unprovoked war in Ukraine.  And yet
we see, month after month, American employers and American workers
shaking off those headwinds, creating record number of jobs and creating
such an important economic backdrop for American households to get by in
this challenging period.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Mike?  
  
Q    Hey, Jared.  So, what — the chart that you showed that was up there
before with the huge bar for Biden, at what point does it become more
fair to stop measuring the growth in jobs and the growth in the economy
against the recovery from the depths of the pandemic, and begin to be
more fair to measure President Biden’s progress at increasing from the
pre-pandemic levels?  
  
MR. BERNSTEIN:  Well, I think that it’s already fair to do that in the
following sense: If you look at some of the indicators, whether it’s
jobs themselves, payroll employment — yeah, you’re right, this is not
showing the time series; this is just the bar.   
  
But if you look at the time series, you will see a “V” when things
tanked and they came back pretty quickly.  Same thing with labor force
participation.  
  
And I’m going to put this — I had a great slide; we weren’t able to get
it together here.  I’m going to put it on my twitter thread later —
@EconJared46 — (laughter) — later today.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Give him a follow.  (Laughter.)  
  
MR. BERNSTEIN:  And it will show the same thing, which is you see a “V,”
and then you see a period of an ongoing trend start out and continue —
and, in the case of labor force participation for prime-age workers,
even accelerate a bit.  
  
And I think that we’re 23 in — 23 months into a recovery now.  I think
it is completely legitimate to cite these numbers in terms of an ongoing
trend, very much fueled by a virtuous cycle of strong consumers creating
demand for goods and services, which in turn leads to strong labor
demand month after month, driving the kind of numbers we saw today.   
  
Q    But just one quick follow-up.  I mean, we’re still not back to
pre-pandemic employment levels, correct?  
  
MR. BERNSTEIN:  Yeah.  
  
Q    And most of the indications, most of the measurements that
Americans might want to — want you to say — to measure President Biden
against is not like, “Okay, well, we dug ourselves out of the hole, but
how much further are we getting above where we would have been had the
pandemic not started?”  
  
MR. BERNSTEIN:  Yeah.  
  
Q    And when do you guys start having to measure against that and
measure against, like, “Okay, we’re now 500,000, a million jobs above
where — you know, where we were before the terrible pandemic”?  
  
MR. BERNSTEIN:  So, there are a variety of ways to look at that.  I
would commend you to some work recently by Moody’s, which looks at
counterfactuals — the idea of what might have happened had we not had
the Rescue Plan.  And in every case, you’re going to see job gains and
unemployment declines, you know, well ahead.   
  
I remember the unemployment number — that the unemployment rate might be
2 percentage points higher than it is right now but for the American
Rescue Plan.  
  
You’re right that jobs are not back to their pre-pandemic peak yet. 
They’re still 1.6 million or 1 percent below their pre-pandemic level,
but they are climbing back at a rate —   
  
Look, I told you: 1.6 million from — and an average monthly job growth
rate of 562,000 per month.  So do — do the math.  That’s — you know,
that’s three months out.   
  
Now, I’m not predecting \[sic\] — I’m not predicting that’s going to
happen.  I’m just saying if you extend the trend, that’s what you’d
see.  
  
But I think the most important point that we’re talking about here is
that there is an ongoing labor market recovery with strong momentum that
is delivering really solid job opportunities to American families, and
that is such an important backdrop given the challenges that those
families face in today’s economy.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Nandita.  
  
Q    Thank you.  Thanks, Jen.  A quick question about the President’s
comments this morning: He was talking about the SPR release as a
“wartime bridge.”  And if you could talk a little bit about what he
meant when he said that.  Is it a wartime bridge to energy independence,
maybe getting companies to ramp up production?  Is it a wartime bridge
to the Iran deal?  Or a wartime bridge to perhaps both?  
  
And secondly, conversations with a lot of oil and gas companies’ CEOs
have been ongoing for several weeks now.  Have there been sort of any
specific commitments that the White House has been able to get from them
when it comes to ramping up production?   
  
MR. BERNSTEIN:  So, on your first question, I think the way to think
about this is it’s kind of a walk-and-chew-gum moment.  I think of the
bridge that the President was talking about as very much from the
perspective of the American consumer who is facing real pressures at the
pump.   
  
You know, the last time we did a SPRO release — an SPR release, we saw
oil prices fall quite quickly, and prices at the pump followed — were
down at least 10 cents a gallon, as I remember, pretty close out of the
gate.    
  
Now, if you look just in the last day or two — I looked before I came up
here — I saw oil is down about $7 a barrel — something around 7 or 8
percent since the President made his call.  And so, when he’s talking
about a bridge, he’s talking about helping American consumers with this
aggressive, historically large distribution of barrels from the
Strategic Reserves.  
  
The idea of the — of the President’s clean energy and sustainable
economy and decarbonization agenda is very much alive, very much
ongoing, and that’s the chew-gum part.   
  
You know, we have to make sure we help consumers get through this
difficult period and help to bring to down the impact as best we can of
the Putin price hike.   
  
But at the same time, we simply cannot give any sort of short shrift to
our clean energy agenda that is so essential for building not just a
sustainable future, but a future of good jobs here in America.  
  
One final point.  When the — while the — while the strategic oil release
should have the impacts that I and the — earlier, the President said
today, that doesn’t mean that the impacts of the conflict in Ukraine are
somehow no longer in play.  They are still in the picture, and, of
course, we will — we will follow them, particularly from the impact of
commodity prices — food and energy specifically —  
  
Q    Any commitments from the —  
  
MR. BERNSTEIN:  — but not exclusively.  
  
Q    — any commitments from the companies specifically?  
  
MR. BERNSTEIN:  I don’t have a readout on those conversations.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Steve.    
  
Q    Jared, a month from today, the student loan payment pause is due to
expire, and a number of congressional Democrats sent the President a
letter yesterday, saying it was their sense that borrowers right now
“are not financially prepared to shoulder another bill” as they deal
with the increased price of food and gas and other necessities.  First,
do you agree with that sentiment?  And second, is it your advice to the
President that he extend the payment pause?   
  
MR. BERNSTEIN:  So, first of all, what did you ask me if I agreed with? 
Sorry.  
  
Q    Just the sentiment that borrowers are not now prepared financially
to take on another bill — the student loan payment.  
  
MR. BERNSTEIN:  You know, I think that that’s — that’s a very specific
question about a very specific group of people.   
  
So, I’ve been talking largely today about the impact of a jobs market
that’s generating historical levels of job gains — 7.9 million jobs
since this President got here.  And, of course, those benefits are
occurring to families all across the nation and all across the income
scale.  
  
For the group that you’re talking about, many of them do face real
challenges making debt payments, and I would say that’s kind of a
different conversation than the one we’re having right now.   
  
Now, I believe Ron has leaned into that in ways that I’m not remembering
right now, but do you have any comments on that?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Oh, okay.  I like this.  (Laughter.)  So, we’re doing it
together.   
  
Q    Any comments on Ron joining in?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Clearly, a decision that will need to be made in advance of
the timeline.  And obviously, we factor the impacts of, you know,
economic data on ranges of groups of people, including students.   
  
But I don’t have anything to announce at this point in terms of any
decision that will be made in advance of the timeline.   
  
MR. BERNSTEIN:  Well said.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Okay, sorry.  Kristen, go ahead.   
  
Q    Thank you very much.  Jared, the President has tapped the Strategic
Reserve twice before and —  
  
MR. BERNSTEIN:  Mm-hmm.   
  
Q    — it still hasn’t had the desired impact.  Why is this time going
to be different?  
  
MR. BERNSTEIN:  So, as I said a moment ago, I think that I would
definitely challenge the claim that it hasn’t had the desired impact. 
We saw both in the last release and in this release the price of oil
come down quite quickly.  The price of oil, as I checked before I came
on here, was down about $7 per barrel.   
  
And I know that the last time — check it out, because these data are
actually quite accessible.  Look at what happened to the price — the
retail price of gasoline after the last release.   
  
Now, there — it’s a global market and there’s a lot of moving parts, but
it is a fact that the price of gasoline fell about 10 cents per gallon
shortly after it.   
  
Now, if your point is that these releases from the Str- —  releases from
the SPR don’t have a — you know, don’t have a structural, long-term
impact on oil markets, that’s why the President used the metaphor of a
bridge today.  The idea is to help consumers as they go — is to help
consumers as they deal with elevated inflationary pressures more broadly
— and specifically with some of the impacts of the Putin price hike on
energy costs.  And that’s what the — that’s what the release is targeted
towards.    
  
Q    And just one more very quickly.  Yesterday, Kate was briefing and
she said that “all options are on the table” as it relates to next
potential steps that the President may or may not support.  Does the
President think that a gas tax holiday is a good idea right now?  Is
that something that he could get behind?  Obviously, it’s gaining a lot
of momentum in the states.  
  
MR. BERNSTEIN:  Yeah, I’m not going to legislate from here or even get
into ongoing policy considerations beyond saying: When we say “all
options are on the table,” we mean it.  And that option is —  
  
Q    Do you think it’s a good policy?  
  
MR. BERNSTEIN:  Do I personally think it’s a good policy?  
  
Q    Broadly.  Yes.  
  
MR. BERNSTEIN:  I think it’s a — I think that all options are on the
table and all options, including that one, should be on the table.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Great.  Jacqui, you got to be the last one.   
  
Q    Thank you.  Jared, yesterday, you know, Brian talked about the
Strategic Petroleum Reserve and buying back oil when prices are cheaper
in the future.  But, you know, long term, as you just mentioned, the
release does not solve the problem of the structural deficit in the
market.   
  
It — and, you know, this administration talks about how you’re pushing
for domestic producers to ramp up production, but how is that going to
happen?  Like the fees yesterday that were announced were — are sort of
a push to get them to use these, you know, leases, not all of which may
produce any energy.  But beyond that, the answer I got yesterday was:
Long-term, our focus is on, you know, clean energy, and that’s why the
President invoked the DPA to try to get, you know, battery parts for
electric vehicles.    
  
That was not, you know, the answer that the oil industry was looking
for.  The — that answer for, you know, what the long-term plan is —
shifted away from fossil fuels.  So how are they going to ramp up
production?  And why can you say that prices are going to be cheaper in
the future where it doesn’t seem like there any friendlier energy
policies?  
  
  
MR. BERNSTEIN:  Well, first of all, let me just be very clear and
specific: When I — my comment on retail — the retail costs of gas at the
pump, relating to the SPR release, is very much an empirical pattern
that we’ve seen time and again where an SPR release occurs, the price of
oil comes down, we see that at the pump.  And, as I suggested, that’s a
— that’s a time-limited function.  The President called it a “bridge.” 
You’re sort of saying, “A bridge to what?”  
  
Q    Right.    
  
MR. BERNSTEIN:  And I understand that.  Well, look, if you believe, as I
do, that this is still a global mark- — that energy is still a global
market and still a competitive market, what you expect to see is: At a
particular price point where oil is, actually, probably above — oil is
probably above that price point — and certainly has been even higher in
recent weeks — historically, that has led to greater energy
production.   
  
And one of the things you hear the President saying in so many words is
that we’d like to see that kind of production, that kind of response
from the impact of market forces on these — the decisions of these
energy companies.    
  
Now, if you don’t see that market response, I think you have to ask
yourself why.  And that involves the kinds of commentary you’ve heard
the President make about industry concentration; about the need for
competitiveness; the importance of having an adequate level of
competition within our key industries, whether its energy or
meatpacking.  Because absent — in the presence of excessive
concentration and absent adequate competition, price levels can be
higher than they otherwise would.    
  
So I very much support the President’s rhetoric and the — the way in
which he’s leaned into that problem.   
  
But historical — historically, we expect price signals in the energy
market to have the effect that they’ve had, and we will continue to
nudge the companies to move in that direction.   
  
Q    But when lenders hear, you know, “What’s your long-term solution?” 
And they —  
  
MR. BERNSTEIN:  “When lenders,” you said?  
  
Q    Lenders.   
  
MR. BERNSTEIN:  Uh-huh.  
  
Q    When — we’re talking about a long-term solution, and then, you
know, the administration’s talking about clean energy.  It’s — you know,
it’s not sending the signal to lenders that this is a safe place for
investment; that — you know, there’s a — this administration is saying
plainly, “We want to increase domestic production.   
  
MR. BERNSTEIN:  Yeah.   
  
Q    That’s the sort of language they’re looking for.  (Inaudible.)  
  
MR. BERNSTEIN:  So I don’t — I don’t really agree with that framing in
the following sense.  I think by “lenders” — I think — like, I’m
thinking of investors.  And, you know, investors in the energy sector —
if you look at the profitability, if you even look at some of the
buybacks and the share prices — investors in that sector have been doing
quite well.  And that tells you right there that there is a price point
wherein it is very possible for an energy producer to be highly
successful and to make a lot of money in today’s economy.   
  
And in fact, what we’d like to — I think one of the messages the
President has been trying to convey to them — that is on behalf of the
American consumers, we’re asking you to respond to those price signals
so that people can have an easier time of getting through this tough
period.   
  
Now at the same time, we have a medium- and a long-term agenda that is
absolutely existentially important to us to move towards a sustainable
economy.  And we do that in a way that creates great opportunities for
both firms, employers, and for workers.    
  
So again, this is not an either-or; it is a both-and.  And I see a very
— I see very much an economic structure in energy markets where they can
both engage in robust production today and plan for a much cleaner
energy future.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Thank you, Jared, for joining us.  
  
MR. BERNSTEIN:  Thank you.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  You’re always welcome.  
  
MR. BERNSTEIN:  Thank you very much, Jen.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Okay.  We will keep you honest and — as long — as long as
you can stay before you need to gather.  And we’ll keep you updated. 
They’re going to track closely from here.  
  
Q    Jen, are you leaving for MSNBC?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I just have a couple of quick updates for you from the
top.   
  
One is: In the State of the Union, the President called on the — out the
ocean shipping carriers who raised their prices by as much as 1,000
percent during the pandemic.  These costs pass through to American
businesses and families, and contribute to inflation.  
  
And just a month after the President spoke about this at the State of
the Union, the Pres- — the Senate yesterday passed overwhelmingly
bipartisan legislation to reform the ocean shipping industry and lower
costs for American farmers, businesses, and consumers.   
  
And additionally this week, the Department of Justice announced that it
successfully stopped a merger between two companies that make the cranes
that move shipping containers on and off of ships at our nation’s port —
ports.  The merger would have harmed American consumers by reducing
competition in the supply chain and would have put our global supply
chain at risk.  And so these steps, obviously, are positive step forward
— steps forward.   
  
I also wanted to note that, today, the Department of Homeland — Health
and Human Services and the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services
made important announcements in response to the Vice President’s call to
action to improve health outcomes.  
  
Beginning today, as many as 720,000 pregnant and postpartum people
across the United States could be guaranteed Medicaid and Children’s
Health Insurance Program coverage for up — for a full 12 months after
pregnancy thanks to the American Rescue Plan.  
  
Finally, for the week ahead — so, next week — sorry, I had one more
thing after this.  On Monday, the President will deliver remarks on
progress made on his administration’s Trucking Action Plan to strengthen
our nation’s supply chains.  
  
On Tuesday, he will deliver remarks celebrating the success of the
Affordable Care Act and Medicaid in extending affordable health
insurance to millions of Americans.   
  
And on Wednesday, the President will address thousands of national,
state, and local building trades lend- — leaders from across the country
at the North America’s Building Trades Unions’ Legislative Conference.  
  
Finally, as you know, the United States is delivering a significant
amount of security assistance to Ukraine every day.  Over the past few
weeks, we have delivered more than $350 million of security assistance
to Ukraine, which the Pentagon has described as an “unprecedented
pace.”    
  
And we welcome the UK’s donors conference yesterday and its announcement
that allies and partners will provide coastal defense systems, which is
something that President Zelenskyy has asked for and is something that
President Biden discussed extensively with Allies at NATO last week.  
  
More than 30 nations have now sent security assistance to Ukraine,
thanks in part to the leadership of the President and our diplomacy.   
  
So why don’t I — we’re going to get to as many people as possible. 
Darlene, why don’t you kick us off.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  Welcome back.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Thank you.  
  
Q    One question on Russia and two, quickly, on two other subjects. 
Russia says that an apparent attack by Ukraine on one of its fuel depots
is making it harder for Russia to stay engaged in the talks to end the
war.  And I was wondering what the White House thinks of this suggestion
from Russia that Ukraine’s actions are the ones that are potentially
standing in the way of peace over there.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I’ve — we have seen those reports.  We’re not in a
position to comment on the Kremlin’s statements. I would note Ukraine
has not made any statements or confirmation of these reports.   
  
I would also note that this is a war that President Putin started — a
brutal war with Russia’s forces continuing to bombard cities across
Ukraine and commit terrible acts of violence.  We’ve seen the people of
Ukraine fight valiantly in the face of unprovoked Russian brutality, but
there is one aggressor here, and that is President Putin and the Russian
military at his direction.  
  
Q    Second, on Title 42 — the announcement that it’s going to be lifted
on May 23rd: Can you talk a little bit about why the restrictions aren’t
lifted sooner than May 23rd, perhaps even immediately?  People who want
to come to the country to seek asylum will now have to wait seven weeks
to do so when the CDC says that restriction is no longer necessary.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Absolutely.  Well, it has always been the case and continues
to be the case that this is a health directive determined by the CDC, so
let me start there.  But I would also say that implementation of their
decision requires an interagency process, specifically leadership of the
Department of Homeland Security.  I would note the statement that was
put out by Secretary Mayorkas.  And it requires the implementation of
appropriate COVID-19 mitigation protocols, also scaling up capacity and
scaling up, you know, resources needed.    
  
And so, it was always going to be important to have an implementation
period, and the timeline reflects that.  
  
Q    And then the last question is: Is there any comment on the vote in
Staten Island by Amazon workers to unionize?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.    
  
Q    Becoming the first in Amazon to do that.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, the President was glad to see workers ensure their
voices are heard with respect to important workplace decisions.  He
believes firmly that every worker in every state must have a free and
fair choice to join a union and the right to bargain collectively with
their employer.  The Amazon workers in Staten Island made their choice
to organize a grassroots union and bargain for better jobs and a better
life.  
  
Go ahead, MJ.    
  
Q    Jen, just in light of the fuel depot fire in Russia, what is the
U.S.’s general position on potential future attacks by Ukraine on
Russian soil?  Does the U.S. believe that it is up to the Ukrainians to
decide whether such potential attacks are justified?  Or does it
generally believe that those kinds of attacks should be discouraged
because they would be seen as being escalatory?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Well, given we have not confirmed or commented
specifically on the reports from here and neither has Ukraine, I’m not
going to get into a future hypothetical.   
  
What I would just reiterate again is that this is a war of aggression by
the Russian leadership, by President Putin that has left millions of
people displaced, homeless; has targeted civilians, hospitals, and other
innocent people across Ukraine.   
  
We know who the aggressor is; that is President Putin and Russia.  And
beyond that, I don’t have any comment on military tactics.  
  
Q    The President said yesterday that Vladimir Putin appears to be
self-isolating, that he appears to have maybe fired or put under house
arrest certain advisors.  Does the U.S. have a clearer sense of which
advisors are currently advising Putin and who has his ear?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, the President was speaking yesterday to public
reporting, so we don’t have more details to speak to at this point in
time.   
  
But I would say, to go back to a couple of days ago and the information
that was put out by the administration that was reflected — that came
through our intelligence agencies, what we do know is that this war is
not going how President Putin had planned; that his intention of winning
a quick war, defeating Ukraine — the Ukrainians quickly is not how it
has played out.  We have seen troops be demoralized.  We have seen
troops run out of equipment that they need on the Russian side.  And
that is clearly not what he had planned.  
  
In terms of who is advising him, I don’t have more specifics on that
front from here.  
  
Q    And just one more on a separate topic.  You’re obviously not the
only person in the administration recently to test positive for COVID. 
Can you give us a sense of whether there have been discussions lately at
the White House about what would happen if President Biden were to test
positive for COVID?  
  
Help us understand what working from home, quarantining, running the
country would look like if the President were to get COVID.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would first say that — this wasn’t exactly your
question, but let me reiterate this point — is that we take steps over
and beyond CDC recommendations and guidelines here.   
  
I would note that while I tested positive about 12 days ago, if my math
is correct, I waited to return to the office until I had a negative
test.  And that is our protocol here — or the protocol I was held
to.    
  
Also, we take steps in advance of meeting the President.  Anyone who’s
meeting the President is going to have a test that day.  And we also
take social distancing steps in meetings when warranted.  
  
In terms of — look, we recognize that COVID-19 remains a transmissible
disease, especially recent variants.  And while I’m not going to get
into a future hypothetical of any of our additional principals, since —
since the Second Gentleman had tested positive — testing positive — I
would note that the President of the United States can work from
anywhere, can run the country from anywhere.  And we have the capacity
to not only prepare for that but to support anything that is needed.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  Just a quick follow-up on the Staten Island vote.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.    
  
Q    It’s obviously a big moment for the labor movement in this country
— the first union at Amazon.  Has the President had a chance to speak to
labor leaders?  Or is he planning to issue a statement?  Is he planning
to talk about it at all?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I — I don’t have anything planned to preview for you in
terms of an official statement.  I’m speaking, of course, on his
behalf.   
  
Obviously, as you know, the President has been a longtime supporter of
the right to organize, the right to — for workers to organize and plan
for better jobs and a better life.  And certainly, my comments reflect
that.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Jen —   
  
Q    Jen just — oh, sorry.  I had a quick follow-up — just comments from
a senior Treasury official this morning that said, sort of, the
sanctions that have been imposed by the U.S. and its allies on Russia is
sort of pushing Russia to become a closed economy.  That is obviously
presuming that, you know, China and others are not sort of making some
of the materials that they get from the West available to them.   
  
Has the administration noted any sort of change in stance when it comes
to China, you know, and Russia?  Or is it — you know, is there any
evidence that they’re providing perhaps military, economic support?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Our assessment has not changed since our National Security
Advisor spoke to this.  What I would point out for you too, as well, is
the strong statements that came from European leaders, given their
meeting on exactly this topic today, which certainly we share the
sentiment.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Lots of urgent issues discussed here, but with the helicopter
approaching, one little bit of housekeeping.  Is it true that you are
leaving the White House to work for MSNBC?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, you can’t get rid of me yet, Ed.  I have nothing to
confirm about my length of public service or planned service, or
anything about consideration about next plans.   
  
I’m very happy to be standing with all of you here today, after it felt
like a never-ending, endless time in my basement quarantining away from
my family.  Believe it or not, I missed you all a lot.   
  
And my focus every day continues to be speaking on behalf of the
President; answering your questions, as tough as they may be at many
times, as difficult as they may be to answer at many times.  And I hope
that I meet my own bar of treating everybody with fairness and being
equitable.  
  
Q    And just because this has been raised by our colleagues, by people
who are observing this process: Is it ethical for you to continue
conducting this job while negotiating with a media outlet?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I have always gone over and above the stringent
ethical and legal requirements of the Biden administration, and I take
that very seriously.  And as is standard for every employee of the White
House, I have received rigorous ethics counseling, including as it
relates to any future employment.  I’ve complied with all ethics
requirements and gone beyond, and taken steps to recuse myself from
decisions as appropriate.  
  
And so, I hope that all of you — I’ve been working with all of you some
time — would judge me for my record and how I treat all of you, both in
the briefing room and otherwise.  And I try to answer questions from
everybody across the board.  I know everybody in the back of the room
may not always be pleased with me, but I try my best.  (Laughter.)  And
I will — I will certainly continue to do that.  
  
Q    Jen, a follow?  
  
(Cross-talk by reporters.)  
  
Q    Are you good?  Can I follow?  
  
Q    Yes.  Go ahead, Kristen.  
  
Q    Jen, given the reports, which have now been confirmed by multiple
media outlets, how can you continue to be an effective briefer if you
do, in fact, have plans to join a media outlet?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I have nothing, again, to announce about any
conversations or any future plans.  And at whatever time I leave the
White House, I can promise you the first thing I’m going to do is sleep
and spend time with my three- and six-year-old who are my most important
audiences of all.  
  
But I would say, Kristen, that, again, I have done — have taken the
ethics, legal requirements to the highest — very seriously in any
discussions, in any considerations about any future employment, just as
any White House official would.  And I’ve taken steps beyond that to
ensure there’s no conflicts.  
  
Q    And I understand what you’re saying.  But I guess the question is:
How is it ethical to have these conversations with media outlets while
you continue to have a job standing behind that podium?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, there are a range of stringent ethical and legal
requirements that are imposed on everybody in this administration and
many administrations past about any conversations you’re having with
future employers.  That is true of any industry you’re working in.  And
I have abided by those, and tried to take steps to go beyond that as
well.   
  
Q    And, broadly speaking, is it the policy of this White House to
allow staffers to have discussions, even indirectly, with institutions
that impact and affect their jobs and your job here?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, it is the policy of this White House to ensure that
anyone who is having conversations about future employment does so
through consultation with the White House Counsel’s Office and ensuring
they abide by any ethics and legal requirements.  And those are
conversations that I have taken very seriously and abided by every
component of.  
  
Q    Back of the room?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Oh, okay, so let me go to Sabrina and we can go — and then
we can wrap.   
  
Q    Thank you, Jen.  Can you confirm —  
  
Q    You said you missed us.  (Laughter.)  
  
Q    — reports that the U.S. —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I — (laughter) — okay, I know.  It may be that people who
may have to see the President depart and I don’t want to hold anyone
back.  But I also am happy to answer your question and a couple of
others if people want to stay.  But if people need to —   
  
Are they gathering right now?  Sorry to interrupt your train of thought
here.   
  
MR. BATES:  Yeah.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Okay.  Go ahead.    
  
Q    Can you confirm reports that the U.S. has been providing Ukraine
with protective equipment such as gas masks, hazmat suits, and other
materials because of a possible chemical weapons attack from Russia?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  So, the United States and members of the international
community have, of course, repeatedly warned about the potential for
Russia to use chemical or biological weapons in Ukraine and that Moscow
is possibly planning a false-flag operation.    
  
In an effort to assist our Ukrainian partners, the U.S. government is
providing the government of Ukraine with lifesaving equipment and
supplies that could be deployed in the event of Russia — Russian use of
a chemical and biological weapon against Ukraine.    
  
It does not compromise our domestic preparedness in any way, shape, or
form — just for everybody’s awareness — but we are providing it as we
are providing a range of materials and equipment.   
  
Q    And just one quick question on another subject.  The House passed a
bill today that would remove marijuana from the federal schedule of
controlled substances.  Every Democrat, save for two, voted in favor of
this bill.  Does the President support the legislation?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, let me say that, as the President said during
the campaign, our current marilan- \[sic\] — marijuana laws are not
working.  He agrees that we need to rethink our approach, including to
address the racial disparities and systemic — (Briefing Room door opens)
— oh, okay — inequities in our criminal justice system, broaden research
on the effects of marijuana, and support the safe use of marijuana for
medical purposes.   
  
We look forward to working with Congress to achieve our shared goals,
and we’ll continue having discussions with them about this objective.   
  
Jacqui, go ahead.    
  
Q    Thank you, Jen.    
  
MS. PSAKI:  Oh, okay, we got to wrap up in a second here.  And then I’ll
go to Karen.  
  
Q    Madam, one more —  
  
Q    The back?  Back of the room?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Okay, so they’re — you guys got to wrap.   
  
Q    Jen, do you have a reaction to the IEA saying they’re going to
commit more oil reserves (inaudible)?  
  
Q    Should we gather now?  
  
Q    Is it a gather?    
  
Q    Should we go or —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I’m sure we will get you a — let me — let us get you a
thorough comment on that.  I will say, as the President conveyed in his
announcement yesterday, certainly working with the global community to
ensure we are meeting the supply shortages in the global community at
this time is part of our effort to reduce gas prices for Americans,
given it’s a global oil market.  So this is a part of that.  
  
And we will get to a more comprehensive — I’m here and in my office if
you guys have —  
  
Q    Jen, can I —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  — quick que- —    
  
Q    — can you take my question on inflation?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.   
  
Q    Real quick.  Today, the President blamed Putin’s invasion of
Ukraine for not just higher gas prices, but also higher food prices. 
Inflation was at 7.4 percent in January, before the invasion.  In
February, it went up to 7.9 percent.  Putin didn’t invade until the
24th.  So, March is really going to show the impact of the invasion, and
that report doesn’t even come out until April 12th.   
  
So how are people supposed to believe the Putin price hike is to blame
for food prices going up when the timeline doesn’t add up?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, here’s what the President is reflecting on: One, the
price of gas has gone up by approximately a dollar or more since Putin
started lining up troops at the border.  This is something that outside
economists have spoken to as well, not just the administration.  And
those are just factual details about how much the price of gas has gone
up.  We know that’s a huge impact, and when you say inflation, people
think the cost on their pocketbook and the impact on their budgets.    
  
The second piece, on the availability of food: We know that different
markets around the world are impacted by the lack of production in
Ukraine and other — because of the war.  And we know that that could
impact global food prices.  
  
Q    But it hasn’t happened yet.  And this is the first time we’ve heard
the President blame Putin for higher food prices.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  I think what the President is looking at is what the impact
has been in a lot of areas that are leading to price increases on
people’s pocketbooks and where we could see it increasing over the
course of time.   
  
I’m here in my office.  I’ll see you all soon.  Thank you, everyone.   
  
END  3:24 P.M. EDT
