---
date: '2022-04-05'
modified_time: 2022-04-05 21:07:52-04:00
published_time: 2022-04-05 21:07:51-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/04/05/press-briefing-by-white-house-covid-19-response-team-and-hhs-public-health-officials-april-5-2022/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by White\_House COVID-\u206019 Response Team and HHS Public\
  \ Health Officials | April 5,\_2022"
---
 
Via Teleconference

3:06 P.M. EDT

MR. ZIENTS:  Good afternoon.  Thanks for joining us.  Today, Dr.
Walensky will share the latest on the state of the pandemic, Dr. Fauci
will discuss the effectiveness of additional booster shots, and
Secretary Becerra will provide an update on our work to address the
long-term impacts of COVID.

First, I want to discuss where we stand on funding for the COVID-19
response.

We’ve made tremendous progress in our fight against the virus.  We have
217 million Americans fully vaccinated, two out of three eligible adults
boosted, a medicine cabinet full of highly-effective treatments, and
convenient tests.

But, as we’ve made clear for months, there’s more work to do.  The
country urgently needs additional funding from Congress to continue our
fight against COVID. 

The administration requested emergency funds to ensure our medical tools
like vaccines, treatments, and tests remain readily available to the
American people and, importantly, funding for our global response so we
can get more shots in arms around the world.

We are encouraged by the Senate’s work on a bipartisan plan to help meet
some of our most immediate domestic needs.  But, as we’ve made clear, we
need more for our domestic response: to stay up to date on vaccines, to
procure monoclonal antibody treatments and antiviral pills, to provide
protection for the immunocompromised, and to sustain our testing
capacity.

And it is a real disappointment that there is no global funding in this
bill.  This virus knows no borders, and it’s in our national interest to
vaccinate the world and protect against possible new variants.

Without additional funding for our global response, we won’t have
resources to help get more shots in arms in countries in need.  We will
lack funding to provide oxygen and other lifesaving supplies.  And our
global genomic sequencing capabilities will fall off and undermine our
ability to detect any emerging variants around the world.

As we know, this virus is unpredictable.  Time is of the essence, so we
urge Congress to move promptly on the $10 billion emergency funding
package developed in the Senate.

This bill is a start.  It should pass immediately.  But it’s exactly
that: just a start. 

Congress must keep working to immediately provide additional funding for
our remaining domestic needs so that we’re prepared for whatever comes,
and, importantly, to act with urgency to fund our global COVID-19
response so that we can accelerate our efforts to turn vaccines into
vaccinations around the world.

As we work with Congress to fund our global response, we will continue
doing all we can to vaccinate the world.

At President Biden’s direction, we have done more than just lead the
global vaccination effort: We have pioneered the global vaccination
effort.

The U.S. was the first country in the world to donate a significant
amount of our own vaccine supply, creating the model for other countries
to do the same.

The U.S. was the first country to strike a deal with a major vaccine
manufacturer to purchase doses solely to donate to other countries in
need — 1 billion Pfizer vaccine doses.

We were the first, and remain the only, country to broker a deal with a
U.S. manufacturer and COVAX to get vaccines into humanitarian zones to
reach people displaced by war, famine, and other crises.

And we were the first, and are still the only, country to give up our
place in line for delivery of doses, enabling the African Union to more
quickly access over 100 million Moderna vaccine doses.

Today, we’re adding to our list of firsts, announcing that we will be
the first nation to donate tens of millions of pediatric COVID-19
vaccines to low- and lower-middle income countries for free, with no
strings attached. 

These countries around the world are eager to get these doses.  In fact,
more than 20 low- and lower-middle income countries have approached the
U.S., asking us to provide vaccines for their young children.

We’re now ready to answer their call.  It’s the right thing to do.

The U.S. has now delivered over a half-billion adult vaccines to 114
different countries.  And because of President Biden’s leadership,
vaccine supply is no longer the constraint to getting shots in arms
around the world.

In fact, countries need funding and assistance to turn vaccines into
vaccinations.  That’s why Congress must step up and provide critical
funding to help countries in need get shots into arms.

In the meantime, any low- and lower-middle income country that wants
adult doses from the U.S. can get those doses, again, for free with no
strings attached.

And now with more than enough supply for adults, we’re working with
Pfizer to make pediatric doses available to donate as part of our
ongoing commitment to donate 1.2 billion vaccines.

Thanks to this historic action, children in countries most in need will
soon have access to safe, effective vaccines and parents will gain the
peace of mind that their children are protected.

Again, this virus knows no borders, so getting more people vaccinated is
one of the best ways to protect people here at home and around the
world.

And today, we’re making clear that the U.S. will continue to lead and
pioneer the global effort to get both adults and children vaccinated.

With that, I’ll turn it over to Dr. Walensky. 

Dr. Walensky.

DR. WALENSKY:  Thank you, Jeff.  And good afternoon, everyone.  Let’s
walk — start by walking through today’s data.  The current seven-day
daily average of cases is about 25,000 cases per day, a decrease
nationally of about 4 percent over the previous week and remains
relatively stable over the past few weeks. 

The seven-day average of hospital admissions is about 14,000 per day, a
decrease of about 17 percent over the previous week. 

And the seven-day average daily deaths are about 570 per day, which is a
decrease of nearly 16 percent over the prior week.

New national estimates released today show the Omicron sublineage, BA.2
— indicated by light pink in this U.S. map by HHS regions — is now
projected to account for 72 percent of circulating variants nationally,
with all regions of the country reporting that BA.2 is now the dominant
variant. 

As we’ve previously shared about the BA.2 variant, there is no evidence
that BA.2 results in more severe disease compared with the BA.1 variant,
nor does it appear to be more likely to evade immune protection than
BA.1.  But BA.2 does appear to be more transmissible than BA.1. 

The high level of immunity in the population from vaccines, boosters,
and previous infection will provide some level of protection against
BA.2.  However, we strongly encourage everyone to be up to date on their
COVID-19 vaccines.

Looking across the country, we see that 95 percent of counties are
reporting low COVID-19 community levels, which represent over 97 percent
of the U.S. population.

If we look more closely at the local level, we find a handful of
counties where we are seeing increases in both cases and markers of more
severe disease, like hospitalizations and in-patient bed capacity, which
have resulted in an increased COVID-19 community level in some areas.

While on the national level cases remain relatively low compared to
prior points in the pandemic, we continue to look to COVID-19 community
levels which were developed to work locally at the county level.

As we move forward, we encourage local jurisdictions to closely monitor
their own COVID-19 community levels and to follow additional metrics
that are — that they may have available as leading indicators of
disease, for example, wastewater and syndromic surveillance.

It’s important for communities and health officials to use these
measures to help inform prevention strategies for their local area —
like masking, testing, and plans for treatment — should they move into
higher COVID-19 community levels.

Now as we continue to closely monitor COVID-19 in the United States,
we’re reminded of the critical need to have a sustainable and resilient
public health workforce in place that can effectively respond to both
emerging threats and ongoing public health needs.

During the decade prior to COVID-19, the public health workforce lost an
estimated 60,000 jobs nationwide, despite the continued demands to
respond to multiple chronic public health threats, like H1N1, Zika, and
Ebola.

As we look to building back this much-needed workforce, we must
prioritize a public health workforce that is as diverse as the
communities they serve, culturally competent, and equipped with skills
to meet the public health needs of communities across the nation.

One way we’re working to build this workforce is through Public Health
AmeriCorps — a groundbreaking initiative that supports the recruitment,
training, and development of our nation’s next generation of public
health leaders.  Public Health AmeriCorps is supported through
investments from the American Rescue Plan and is anticipated to fund up
to 5,000 positions over the next five years. 

This week, AmeriCorps will award over 80 grants to the first round of
Public Health AmeriCorps programs across 32 states and territories that
will allow the recruitment of nearly 3,000 Public Health AmeriCorps
members.

The work of these initial members will help to address public health
needs in our nation’s inner cities, to build Tribal public health
capacity, to address health disparities in rural America, and to bolster
public health resources in our U.S. territories.

Recruitment, training, and development of public health personnel is a
key part of building our nation’s public health workforce, allowing us
to better respond to current and future public health threats.

And now I will turn it over to Dr. Fauci. 

Dr. Fauci.

DR. FAUCI:  Thank you very much, Dr. Walensky.  I would like to now
discuss the COVID-19 boosters, particularly in the context of the fourth
dose of an mRNA boost. 

Let’s take a very quick update and an overview of the situation that
we’re in right now.  So, several studies have shown that COVID-19
vaccine booster shots protect against serious illness, hospitalizations,
and even death.  That’s a well-established fact now.  And the CDC
recommends everyone aged 12 and older to receive a COVID-19 vaccine
booster after completing their primary vaccination series. 

And certain individuals can now receive two booster doses: people who
are moderately or severely immune compromised, as well as adults 50
years of age or older.

Next slide.

And as we know, on March 29th, the FDA authorized second booster doses
of two COVID-19 vaccines for older and immunocompromised individuals. 
And the CDC recommended, that same day, that additional boosters can now
be used for certain individuals.

Let’s take a look at the data behind those decisions.  So, the first
doost- — the first booster doses restore the waning vaccine
effectiveness of a primary vaccine series, including against severe
disease.  The effectiveness of the first booster dose, we know, wanes
over time.  And growing evidence indicates that a second COVID-19 dose
can restore vaccine effectiveness for certain populations and, albeit,
the data now — at least for the short term.  And we look forward to
longer-term data.

Next slide.

So, let’s take a look at some of the Israeli studies.  There are a few
of them that are really quite telling.  One from Bar-On, looking at more
than 1 million people who are age 60 or older and eligible for the
fourth dose.  And in that look at –in that study, an additional booster
dose of the Pfizer product at four months resulted in a 2-fold lower
rate of confirmed infection and a 4.3-fold lower rate of severe illness.

In another study — next slide — again, from Israel by — there it is — by
Arbel, about a half a million members of a health services group, again
age — 60 years of age or older.  And now during an Omicron surge,
individuals who received a second booster dose of the Pfizer product at
four months had a 78 percent reduction in death compared to those who
received only the first boost.

And on the next slide, this is rather dramatically shown by this
Kaplan-Meier shot, where you see here in the pink-red, the first booster
— namely, a third dose.  And then in the lighter blue color, you look at
the mortality rate of individuals who receive the second booster or the
fourth dose. 

Next slide. 

And yet again, in another study by Gazit, in almost 100,000 people at a
different healthcare service, when you looked at the fourth dose and
compared it to the third dose, there was an 86 percent vaccine
effectiveness against severe disease. 

Next slide.

Now, what we’re doing at the NIH — looking forward — about fourth doses
that might be available for people in the longer range: We want to do
better than just what we have.  So there is now a new study that we just
recently launched called COVAIL.  And what we’ll be doing is assessing
different fourth doses that are either ancestral strain or variant
specific — in the first phase of the study. 

In the second phase of the study, we’re planning on looking at different
vaccine platforms for the purpose of getting a great durability than we
currently have. 

Next slide.  

And let me close by, again, just bringing to the attention of the
audience: Covid.gov, where we can get one-stop shopping of all the
information that you will need to help you navigate decisions about
vaccines and about testings. 

With that, I’ll hand it over now to Secretary Becerra.

SECRETARY BECERRA:  Thank you, Dr. Fauci.  When it comes to COVID, we
have more tools than ever before to stay safe, from vaccines and
boosters, to treatments and tests.  All widely available at no cost to
the American people thanks to our national COVID response over the past
year. 

But we also know that many people continue to feel the physical and the
mental burden of this pandemic.  We have to ensure that people with
disabilities, older Americans, and people who are immunocompromised
aren’t left behind, and that they continue to have the tools and
resources that they need to stay safe. 

Just yesterday, we expanded coverage of free over-the-counter COVID
tests to the tens of millions of Medicare beneficiaries.  People with
Medicare now have access each month to up to eight easy-to-use, at-home
COVID-19 tests at no cost.  This is all a part of our overall strategy
to ensure access to tests free of charge.

In the past year, we have more than tripled the number of sites where
people can get COVID-19 tests for free and delivered close to 250
million free at-home, rapid tests to Americans who have ordered them.

President Biden has been clear, we must ensure that no one is left
behind as we work to move forward in the fight against COVID-19.  That
also means taking on big and complex physical and mental health
challenges caused by COVID. 

Americans of every age and background are experiencing Long COVID. 
Americans have experienced the loss of a loved one due to COVID,
including over 200,000 children who’ve lost a parent or caregiver. 

And Americans nationwide are grappling with mental health and
substance-use challenges caused by or exacerbated by the pandemic. 

Let’s be clear, we are going to use every tool we have to be there for
these Americans.  We’ve made significant investments in mental
healthcare, as well as substance-use prevention, treatment, and recovery
support.  That is especially important for people dealing with COVID and
COVID-related loss.

We’ve launched efforts across the NIH, the CDC, and the Veterans
Administration, including the landmark $1.1 billion recovery initiative,
to better understand Long COVID and accelerate scientific progress. 

And we are providing Americans experiencing Long COVID information about
where they can access the resources and support they need, as well as
helping them understand, if they have a disability, and educating them
on their rights.

Long COVID is real, and there is still so much we don’t know about it. 
Millions of Americans may be struggling with lingering health effects,
ranging from things that are easier to notice, like troubling — trouble
breathing or irregular heartbeat, to less apparent but potentially
serious conditions related to the brain or mental health. 

At the President’s direction, the Department of Health and Human
Services will be leading a government-wide response to Long COVID
focused on three main goals: improving care services and other support
for individuals with Long COVID; enhancing education and outreach among
the public-private sector and the medical community; and advancing
research to support both goals. 

And, of course, we’ll collaborate with academic, industry, and state and
local partners to better understand Long COVID. 

Through it all, we’ll continue to assess and highlight the long-term
effects of COVID-19 on our hardest-hit and highest-risk communities, and
make sure they receive the support they need. 

To do this, we’re launching the first-ever interagency national research
agenda on Long COVID — a National Research Action Plan. 

HHS will lead a government-wide interagency coordinating council, which
will involve experts from the Department of Defense, Veterans
Administration, the Labor Department, and many entities across
government to coordinate both public- and private-sector work to advance
our understanding of Long COVID and to accelerate efforts to prevent,
detect, and treat it.

In real time, we will share lessons on how to prevent, detect, and treat
Long COVID.  And this coordinated effort will help ensure our research
is being directed toward the people who need care the most. 

We continue to focus on improving care.  If we receive additional
financial support for it from Congress, we will launch new centers of
excellence in communities across the country to provide high-quality
care to individuals experiencing Long COVID and to get best practices
out there to physicians across the country. 

We’re determined as a nation, as the President has said, to not leave
anyone behind.  And that includes our loved ones suffering from Long
COVID and related conditions.  We see you.  We’re focused on you.  And
we are committed to advancing our nation’s capacity to understand and
treat your conditions.

And I’ll end with this: We know the best way to prevent Long COVID is to
prevent you from getting COVID in the first place.  That’s why it’s so
critical to get vaccinated and boosted, which is our best tools that we
have to prevent COVID-19. 

So I continue to encourage everyone eligible to get vaccinated and
boosted to go do it so we can all move forward safely together.  Thanks.

Back to you, Jeff. 

MR. ZIENTS:  Well, thanks, Secretary. 

With that, Kevin, let’s open it up for some questions.  Kevin?

MODERATOR:  Thanks, Jeff.  We only have time for a few questions today. 
Let’s go to Sabrina Siddiqui at Wall Street Journal.

Q    Thank you, as always, for doing the briefing.  I wanted to ask
about COVID funding.  Republicans are trying to insert an amendment into
the COVID deal to reinstate Title 42.  There are even some Democrats,
such as Arizona Senator Mark Kelly, who have said that they’re open to
considering such an amendment.  Is the administration concerned that the
decision to lift Title 42 could now threaten COVID funding?

MR. ZIENTS:  Thanks for the question.  Look, Title 42 is a public health
authority.  And therefore, it’s always been a decision made by the
scientists and public health experts at the CDC.  And it’s based on the
public health conditions. 

And it should remain independent of the urgently needed funding that we
talked about today to sustain our COVID response here domestically and
our global response.  So this should not be included on any funding
bill.  The decision should be made by CDC, which it has been.  And
that’s where it belongs. 

Next question, please.

MODERATOR:  Let’s go to Erin Billups at Spectrum News.

Q    Hi.  Thanks so much for taking my question.  For Dr. Walensky and
Secretary Becerra — just wondering, with this increased focus on Long
COVID, if Type 2 diabetes is being considered a part of the Long COVID
problem.  There was a new study published in The Lancet last month that
finds a link between COVID infections and an increased risk of being
diagnosed with diabetes.  And experts I’ve spoken to say there’s an
urgent need to aggressively screen the U.S. population for diabetes and
get more people into diabetes management programs. 

Are you looking for funding for that as well?  Have there’s been any
discussions about that? 

MR. ZIENTS:  Dr. Walensky, why don’t you go first here? 

DR. WALENSKY:  Yeah, thank you for that question.  First, let me say we
— the science is definitely starting to demonstrate this link between
people who previously had COVID and increasing rates of new diabetes
diagnoses. 

Certainly, public health infrastructure will assist in not only
screening for diabetes, but also for nutrition and diabetes care.  And I
think as we consider the menu of many things that could incorporate — be
incorporated into post-COVID conditions, diabetes certainly should be
one of those conditions considered.

MR. ZIENTS:  Secretary Becerra?

SECRETARY BECERRA:  And I’ll simply add, based on what Dr. Walensky has
said and our scientists are telling us, we need to work as aggressively
as we can to make sure that no American is left behind.  So that means
that if we need more funding to address Long COVID, we’re going to fight
to get that from Congress because we understand that COVID is having
effects long after the actual virus has escaped us. 

MR. ZIENTS:  Next question, please.

MODERATOR:  Go to Tamara Keith at NPR.

Q    Thank you for taking my question.  By my very rudimentary math,
you’re getting about 60 percent of the money that you asked for, for
domestic COVID programs.  So what takes the hit?  How — what do you do
with only 60 percent of the money?

Additionally, is there any thought of changing the requirements of
testing for international travel and masks on planes?  If we could get
an update on that.

MR. ZIENTS:  Okay, on your second question: No, there are no plans to
change the international travel requirements at this point.

We asked — your math is good math here.  We asked for $22.5 billion, and
Congress is working to pass $10 billion — only a fraction of the
immediate need. 

And that immediate need is immediate.  It’s for vaccines, therapeutics,
and tests.  The $10 billion for domestic efforts funds some of these
urgent needs, but we still need additional funding for both our domestic
effort and our global efforts where there’s no additional funding in the
$10 billion. 

So, every dollar we requested is critical to both our domestic and
global response.  HHS, under the Secretary, will work through how to
best deploy these very limited resources to satisfy the most urgent of
the urgent needs. 

And, yes, we need Congress to pass the $10 billion and then get
immediately back to work to get more money for domestic and get money
for our global response. 

Next question, please.

MODERATOR:  Let’s go to Zeke Miller at the AP.

Q    Thanks.  Two questions.  First, with the lack of the COVID funding
for international vaccine sharing, what impact will that have on the
U.S. capacity to (inaudible) the number of doses and meet its
international commitments through the end of the year?

And then, for the doctors, do you have any update on plans and timeline
for pediatric vaccines for kids under five?  Thank you.

MR. ZIENTS:  So I’ll go first.  On the — on the globe — on then impact
on not having any funding — additional funding at this point for the
global response.  Look, the lack of global funding has real implications
on our efforts to vaccinate the world. 

Without the additional global funding, USAID does not have the resources
it needs to help countries get more shots in arms.  We’ll be forced to
scale back the work that we do to provide oxygen and other lifesaving
supplies to countries that need them.  Our global genomic sequencing
capabilities will fall off, and that undermines our ability to detect
emerging variants beyond our borders. 

And speaking of borders, as I’ve said, you know, the virus knows no
borders, and it’s in our national interest to vaccinate the world and
protect against any possible future variants. 

So it’s a real disappointment to not have any global funding in this
bill.  It has real implications.  We need funding as quickly as
possible. Congress needs to act with urgency to fund our global response
so that we can accelerate our efforts to turn vaccines — we do have
vaccine supply — we need to turn those vaccines into vaccinations around
the world. 

Dr. Fauci.

DR. FAUCI:  Yeah, with regard to the vaccines for children, I believe
you’re referring to where are we with the six months to five-year
vaccine approval or emergency use authorization.

As you well know, two companies have submitted or are submitting data to
the FDA regarding children of various ages, including within that cohort
of six months up to five years. 

The data are being analyzed right now.  And I — we’re very sensitive to
the fact that many parents out there are waiting for a decision on
this.  And the message we have to them is that we want to make sure that
when you’re dealing with vaccines for anyone, particularly for children,
that we get the data, we look at the data — and when I say “we,” I’m
talking first the FDA for the authorization and then the CDC for the
recommendation — so that we know that they’re safe.  And thus far, there
has to be — appears to be no safety signal whatsoever that would get
anyone worried. 

And the question is: What — what is the right dose and the dose
regimen?  And that would likely be different for the two companies that
are now involved in putting their data in. 

So we ask people to please be patient, because when a decision is be
made, you can be sure that it’s a decision based on the good science
that’s being collected and analyzed by the agencies involved. 

Thank you.

MR. ZIENTS:  Kevin.  Next question.

MODERATOR:  A couple more questions.  Let’s go to Sharon LaFraniere at
New York Times. 

Q    Thank you very much.  This is a question for Dr. Walensky, please. 
So last week, you said that the option of a second booster was
especially important for those 65 and up and 50 and up with underlying
medical conditions.  So does that — does “especially important” mean
that you recommend it or you encourage it for those population groups,
and you do not recommend it or encourage it for, say, healthy people 50
to 65? 

And if — if it doesn’t mean that, can you give people some clearer sense
of how they should decide whether to get the second booster since many
people don’t have doctors to consult with?

DR. WALENSKY:  Yeah, thank you for that question.  So we have made the
fourth shot — the second booster — available to everyone over the age of
50 because everybody does have individual, you know, risk assessment as
to how they’re approaching this vaccine. 

But we really would encourage people who are over 50 who have underlying
medical conditions, those over the age of 65, to go ahead and get that
next shot.  And also, to recognize that they may very well need another
shot come the fall, and that will be the subject of an FDA meeting
discussion tomorrow.

MR. ZIENTS:  Kevin, last question.

MODERATOR:  Let’s go to Josh Wingrove at Bloomberg.

Q    Thank you very much.  Can you talk a little bit more about the
announcement on the pediatric vaccines?  Are you able to provide a
number? 

And is the fact that they’re essentially sort of subbing in for adult
vaccines is — we’ve seen Jen Psaki speak to this, but also COVAX — that
demand is waning in developing countries for the adult vaccines. 

Is that the reason why you’re essentially swapping?  Or is it more a
case of you wanting to hold back a little bit more adult vaccine just in
case we need, more widely, fourth shots in the U.S. and just in case
Congress doesn’t deliver more funding?  Thank you.

MR. ZIENTS:  Yeah.  So, Josh, good questions.  I mean, these donations
are part of the billion Pfizer doses that we previously secured.  So
this is international supply.  This has nothing to do with our domestic
supply, where we do have enough vaccine supply for the booster doses —
the fourth doses that Dr. Fauci and Dr. Walensky just talked about that
have been recently authorized both for immunocompromised people and for
people over 50.

On the domestic front, we do not have sufficient supply if the science
dictates that all Americans get boosted sometime later in the year or if
we were to need a vaccine-specific variant — I’m sorry, I’m sorry, a
variant-specific vaccine — a different formulation than what we have
today.  We do not have the funding for that.

So on the pediatric international, there are plenty of doses available
for adults, which gives us the opportunity to provide 100 million or
more doses of Pfizer’s vaccine for 5-to-11-year-olds to donate in the
upcoming months. 

As I mentioned, 20 countries have already asked, including Pakistan and
Vietnam — have made requests to vaccinate their children and to get
vaccines to do so.  None of this will undermine the position that we
have right now, which is that we have plenty of supply in the U.S. to
send abroad and other countries around the world to do the same to make
sure that we have plenty of vaccines for adults across the world.

So we are now able to help lead the world in vaccinating both adults and
children in those countries that are in need.

So before we close, this is likely my last briefing.  I just want to say
it’s been the honor of a lifetime to serve in this role. 

As we enter this new moment in the pandemic, I can’t think of a better
person to hand the baton to than Dr. Jha.  I want to thank the
Secretary, Dr. Fauci, Dr. Walensky for your partnership and continued
leadership.  And I want to thank the COVID-19 Response Team here at the
White House, everyone inside and outside of government who has worked
together tirelessly in our fight against the virus.

And finally, and importantly, to the members of the press: As always,
thank you for joining these briefings, asking the questions you ask. 
And most importantly, thank you for all the important, critical work you
do to provide information to the public. 

So bottom line, thank you.

3:40 P.M. EDT

To view the COVID Press Briefing slides, visit:
<https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/04/COVID-Press-Briefing_4.05.22.pdf>
