---
date: '2022-04-26'
published_time: 2022-04-26 18:00:47-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/04/26/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-and-white-house-covid-19-response-coordinator-dr-ashish-jha/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Jen\_Psaki and White\_House COVID-\u2060\
  19 Response Coordinator Dr. Ashish\_Jha"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

3:09 P.M. EDT  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Hi, everyone.

Q    Hi.  How are you?

MS. PSAKI:  Great.  Okay.  Today, as promised, we have the premiere of
Dr. Ashish Jha, our new White House COVID Response Coordinator, in the
briefing room.  
  
Dr. Jha will be talking about two important pieces of work in our — we
are working on with Congress: first, expanding access to lifesaving
COVID-19 treatments; and second, our urgent need for funding from
Congress.

He has time just to take a very small number of questions today, but he
will be — come back af- — soon, I’m sure.  
  
So, with that, I will turn it over to him, and then we’ll proceed with a
normal briefing.

DR. JHA:  Good afternoon, everybody.

Q    Good afternoon.

DR. JHA:  All right.  Well, it’s great to be with all of you.  A little
exciting and a little scary to be with this crowd.  (Laughter.)

So I want to take a minute to talk about where we are with the
pandemic.  We are — I believe we are at an inflection point.  On one
hand, we know that BA.2, the subvariant of Omicron, has become dominant;
cases are rising across the country.  But hospitalizations are at the
lowest level of the pandemic — right? — and deaths are continuing to
fall.

We’re down to about 300 deaths a day — still too many, still too high,
but doing so much for the — better than we have throughout much of this
pandemic.

Despite all of that progress — and I think a lot of that is driven by
the fact that we have more than 200 million Americans vaccinated, more
than 100 million Americans boosted — we know this virus is tricky.   
  
We know that the risk of potential surges, even of a potential new
variant, remains out there.  
  
The good news is we are at a point where we have a lot more
capabilities, a lot more tools to protect the American people: testing,
vaccines, therapeutics.  These are the — sort of the pillars of how we
manage the rest of this pandemic.  
  
And that’s why what I want to do is spend some time talking to you about
those tools, about our capabilities, what we’re doing as an
administration, and what we need from Congress to continue to protect
the American people.

So, first, I want to talk about Paxlovid, the — the therapy that is
become — is becoming increasingly available to the American people.

For those of you who have not followed this very closely, Paxlovid
became authorized by the FDA in late December.  At that point, there was
just a very limited supply of these pills.

The clinical data suggests that it has an enormously beneficial impact,
reduces hospitalizations by more than 90 percent, and is very, very
effective at preventing severe disease.

Over the last few months, the administration has worked very hard with
Pfizer to increase the supply of Paxlovid and acquire more and more
doses for the American people.

And now our job is to make sure that these doses are getting out there
and they’re getting into — into the hands of patients who would benefit
from them.

So, what are we doing?  And I want to talk about four major things.

The first is: We are opening up the number of sites that can order
directly from the federal government supplies of Paxlovid.

Until — until this recent change, the way pharmacies got Paxlovid —
either you were a Test to Treat site or you got it from your state.  But
now we’re opening up a federal ha- — a federal pharmacy channel.  And
what that means is pharmacies can order directly from the federal
government.

Currently, there are about 20,000 sites in the United States that carry
Paxlovid.  We expect with this change that we will very quickly get to
30,000.  And within the next couple of weeks, I expect us to get to
about 40,000 sites.

Paxlovid will be widely available everywhere in America.  That’s going
to help a lot.

The second is: The President announced the Test to Treat effort that we
have launched.  Right now, there are about 2,200 Test to Treat sites
across the country.  And we are going to make a series of efforts to
expand the number of Test to Treat sites, including new federal
initiatives that will allow for us to build on other federal testing
sites to allow for — for those to also have a treatment component.  So
if you test positive, you can go and get treated with Paxlovid, of
course if you are eligible and deemed so by a — by a provider.

Third is: We really are doubling down on our communication and education
efforts with physicians and other prescribers.

In the beginning, when the — when the — when Paxlovid first became
available, the word on the street was these things are not widely
available, you should restrict it to the highest risk patients.  Too
many physicians still have that mindset, and what we need to do is to
help American physicians and nurse practitioners and others who can
prescribe understand that we now have plenty available.  And anybody who
is eligible, anybody who’s high risk, should be getting Paxlovid,
obviously based — as long as they meet the clinical criteria.  And so
that education campaign is going to be really important.

And then last but certainly not least is we’re ramping up our public
awareness campaign so that patients also understand that if they test
positive, they should consider going to a Test to Treat site or reach
out to their physician, but to get assessed for whether Paxlovid would
be useful for them.

Those are all really critical steps that I think are going to make an
enormous difference in getting more Paxlovid out to the community, to
getting it out to patients.  And with a very simple goal — right? —
which is we want to lower the severity of the disease that people get if
they get infected, and we want to lower hospitalizations, we want to
lower deaths.  
  
Paxlovid is a really important step in our ability to fight this
pandemic.

Treatments like these vaccines that we have developed –these are the
key, essential tools that we’re going to need to get through the rest of
this pandemic.  And that’s the second part of the conversation I want to
have with all of you, because all of this requires funding from
Congress.

So far, Congress has not stepped up to provide the funds that are needed
for our most urgent needs.

Now, I know they were off on a two-week recess; they are back.  I’m
looking forward to working with Congress — we all are — to get the
funding needs of the American people met on this — on the issue of COVID
and COVID treatments.

Let me give you a couple of concrete examples of what will happen if we
do not get the funding we need.

You may have heard, if you’ve been tracking this, that FDA is working
with Moderna and Pfizer, looking at what the next generation of vaccines
may look like.  And it is possible that we may get a whole new
generation of vaccines in the fall or winter that may be more effective
and more durable.

None of those are going to be available to the American people if we
don’t get more funding.

We are tracking new treatments that are coming online that are as
effective, maybe even more effective, with fewer side effects. Those
treatments will not be available to Americans because other countries
are stepping up and making purchases for those treatments while we await
funding from Congress.

The bottom line is that none of us can predict with any certainty where
exactly this pandemic is going, what the virus is going to do next.  All
we can do is prepare.  And that’s what we need Congress to do, is to
help us prepare and be ready for whatever eventuality comes.

Let me make one last point that I want to — think is incredibly
important, and that is that there are some people in this country who
sometimes think that we can take a domestic-only approach to a global
pandemic.  That’s not a thing.  You can’t do that.

If we’re going to fight a global pandemic, we have to have a global
approach.  That means we need funding to ensure that we’re getting shots
in arms around the world.

The President and his leadership has enabled us to now have plenty of
vaccines for the world.  But vaccines don’t save lives, right? 
Vaccinations do.  We have got to finish the job.  We’ve got to get the
resources we need to get shots in arms so we can actually vaccinate the
world and help bring this pandemic to a close.

So those are — those are the essential things that are in front of us. 
This will require a partnership between the administration and
Congress.  I am confident that Congress will deliver for the American
people.  And I look forward to working with them on that.  Thank you.

MS. PSAKI:  Chris.

DR. JHA:  Every time a high-profile person, like the Vice President,
catches COVID, there’s more attention on the infection.  For Americans
following that news, what lessons should they draw from that experience
if somebody as protected as her has caught COVID?  
  
DR. JHA:  Good question.  So I think if you take a step back and look at
the Vice President, she is boosted — she’s actually twice boosted. 
Right?  
  
We have a very, very contagious variant out there.  It is going to be
hard to ensure that no one gets COVID in America.  That’s not even a
policy goal.

The goal of our policies should be, obviously, minimize infections
whenever possible, but to make sure people don’t get seriously ill.   
  
The best ways of doing that are making sure people are vaccinated and
boosted, as the Vice President is, and making sure we have plenty of
therapeutics so, you know — so that that is available as well.  And
that, to me, is the key lesson here.  
  
Q    Has she received any therapeutics?  Since we’re on the topic of
therapeutics.  
  
DR. JHA:  You know, that’s a conversation that she’s having with her
physician.  I’m not her physician; I’m not privy to those
conversations.  So I don’t know the answer to that.    
  
MS. PSAKI:  Cecilia.  
  
Q    Thank you, Dr. Jha.  Welcome to the briefing room, by the way.  
  
DR. JHA:  Thank you.  
  
Q    To your point that so many Americans can and will get this: In this
report that just came out today, that 60 percent of Americans have had —
it appears have had COVID, the President is getting ready to ramp up his
travel schedule; the Vice President just caught it.  She’s twice
boosted.  Should Americans be prepared for a time when President Biden
gets this?  Is it just a matter of time that the President could get
COVID?  
  
DR. JHA:  I wouldn’t say it’s “just a matter of time.”  But of course,
it is possible that the President, like any other American, could get
COVID.   
  
The bottom line is: He is vaccinated and boosted.  He is very well
protected.  He’s got very good protocols around him to protect him from
getting infected.  But there is no 100 percent anything.  And I think
the key focus has got to be: We got to continue protecting the
President.  That’s what the protocols around him are designed to do.  
  
Yeah, let me just — let me leave it at that.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Tam.  
  
Q    Yeah.  Part of the congressional funding is to potentially deal
with the uninsured fund that has run out of money.  What does the
uninsured fund, not having any money in it, mean for Paxlovid?  Or if
someone who’s uninsured gets COVID right now, what does that mean for
them?  
  
DR. JHA:  Yeah, so first of all, Paxlovid itself will be free, because
the —  
  
Q    They have to see a doctor?  Or —  
  
DR. JHA:  They have to see a — someone who can actually prescribe it for
them.  And this is — one of the absolutely critical things in a pandemic
is that people need to be able to access healthcare.  It turns out it’s
also critical not in a pandemic.  Right?   
  
But — but particularly in a pandemic with an infectious disease, it’s
really important that people be able to access healthcare services, get
the care they need.  It’s good for them; it’s good for people around
them.  And so, making sure uninsured people have access is absolutely
critical.   
  
Q    So, right now, what does that look like?  If someone gets COVID and
they’re uninsured, are they able to get treatment?  Are they able to get
tests?  Or does CVS just eat the cost?  How does that work right now?   
  
DR. JHA:  So, I think, right now, because we don’t have the funding,
there’s a little bit of patchwork of what is happening.  There are
obviously places that serve uninsured people — community health centers,
others people can get care.  There are still — people are still going to
CVS and other places that still are offering those services.  But that’s
not a sustainable solution.  Right?  
  
So, right now, we’re in this kind of middle ground where people are
still getting care.  But over time, if Congress continues to not fund
these urgent priorities, it’s going to get harder and harder for people
to access care.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Kristen.  
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  This will be the last one too.  I apologize.  He’ll be back
soon.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, Dr. Jha.  Thank you so much for being here.  Just a
couple of questions.  One, can you tell us: Was President Biden tested
today, and has he tested negative?  Do we know the last time he tested
negative?   
  
DR. JHA:  I don’t know.  I’m not involved in the President’s testing
protocols.  So I am — I just don’t know the answer to the question.  
  
Q    Do you —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  He was tested yesterday, and he tested negative.   
  
Q    Okay.  Thank you.  On Paxlovid, I just want to be crystal clear,
because you’re trying to expand access to it, but you still say “if
people meet the medical requirements.”  
  
DR. JHA:  Yeah.  
  
Q    Does that mean that Paxlovid should only be taken by people of a
certain age and who are immunocompromised, or that it should be taken by
anyone who has symptoms?  
  
DR. JHA:  No.  So — so, neither.  FDA has laid out a very clear set of
criteria for who should get Paxlovid, and, very basically, it’s anybody
who’s at high risk of developing complications.  And the FDA points to a
CDC assessment.  It’s a — it’s a long list.  I can read it all to you,
but, of course, age is important, presence of chronic diseases.   
  
But the bottom line is that — and what I am recommending to family and
friends is — if you get COVID, you should see a provider and make that
assessment with your provider.  A lot more people are eligible and bene-
— would benefit than I think people think.  
  
Q    And just very quickly, can you help us to understand this moment
that we are in?  Because on the one hand, cases are going up,
particularly on the East Coast.  As you have said, hospitalization and
deaths are going down.  But is the country in the midst of a surge?  
  
DR. JHA:  What I would say is, you know, we are going to see cases go up
and go down during this pandemic as we — as we head into the mont- —
weeks, months, and years ahead.    
  
The key things that we need to be following are: “Are healthcare systems
getting stressed?”  “Are people ending up in the hospital with severe
illness?”  Obviously, “Are people dying at high rates?”  Those are the —
in my mind, the most important metrics.  
  
And right now, while infection numbers are rising — and, of course, we
all want to see infection numbers coming down — the good news is,
because of the extraordinary work of this administration, we’ve got
Americans much better protected.  And that means that we’re not seeing a
huge bump in hospitalizations, that deaths are still declining. 
Obviously, we want to continue tracking those metrics.  
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Thank you, Dr. Jha.  You’re invited anytime.  
  
DR. JHA:  All right.  Thank you, everybody.   
  
Q    Thanks, Dr. Jha.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Thank you.  
  
Okay, a couple items at the top.   
  
Today — we announced this morning that during Second Chance Month,
President Biden made a number of announcements focused on second chances
and reentry, which, as leaders on both sides of the aisle recognize,
will help prevent and reduce crime and strengthen our communities.  
  
The President announced 75 sentence commutations and 3 full pardons. 
All of these individuals were convicted of non-violent drug offenses,
and many have been successfully serving their time on home
confinement.  
  
He also announced more than 20 major actions from a dozen agencies to
expand second-chance opportunities.  This includes a first-of-its-kind
partnership between the Department of Justice and the Department of
Labor to invest $145 million in job training and intensive reentry in
federal prisons.  It also includes steps that will make more
incarcerated students eligible for Pell Grants, make it easier for those
who were incarcerated to enroll in Medicare, and help formerly
incarcerated veterans get their benefits restored.  
  
As we speak, Susan Rice, Dana Remus, and Cedric Richmond are holding a
virtual roundtable with six formerly incarcerated individuals to discuss
the President’s first clemency announcement, the new reentry policies
and programs we announced today.  
  
Today’s announcement mark import- — marks important progress, and we
will continue to review — the President will continue to review clemency
petitions and deliver reforms that advance equal justice and public
safety.  
  
I also wanted to note that, today, Secretary Austin — you may have seen
— hosted a meeting of the Ukraine Defense Consultative Group with
ministers of defense and chiefs of defense from more than 40 countries
at Ramstein Air Base in Germany.  
  
The goal is to bring together countries from around the world for a
series of meetings on the latest Ukraine defense needs to help Ukraine
win the fight against Russia’s unjust invasion, and to help Ukraine’s
defenses for tomorrow’s challenges.  
  
As Secretary Austin said, it was an important and constructive day. 
Agenda topics today included near-time — near-term priorities and
longer-term planning; the latest battlefield assessments of the renewed
Russian offensive; establishing a framework for prioritizing
requirements and logistics for resupply; and energizing the defense
industrial base to continue the steady flow of security assistance.  
  
More than 30 countries have now stepped up to meet Ukraine’s urgent
needs and have committed more than $5 billion of equipment, including
$3.7 billion from the United States, to support Ukraine’s defenses.   
  
We also wanted to welcome an important announcement by our German allies
today to send Ukraine some 50 Cheetah anti-aircraft systems.   
  
We would also highlight the British government’s announcement yesterday
that it will provide Ukraine with additional anti-aircraft capabilities
and Canada’s announcement that it will send Ukraine armored vehicles.  
  
I believe that’s it.  Why don’t we jump around to people who didn’t get
questions initially.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  A quick question on Dr. Jha talking about cases going
up and the VP testing positive.  Can you talk a little bit about whether
the administration and society as a whole perhaps have moved away a bit
too quickly from mitigation efforts such as masking?  And is the
administration perhaps thinking about strengthening any of those
measures, especially the ones that were loosened?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, those decisions and those recommendations are made by
the CDC and our public health officials.  So I don’t have anything to
preview for you.  Those are decisions that they make, and we obviously
abide by that from here.    
  
I’d remind you that their recommendations include — are based on what
zone of the country you live in — right? — whether it is a green zone, a
yellow zone, or a zone that has a higher rate.  And they continue to
recommend masking on transportation on fed- — you know, that we — and we
abide by that from here as well.  
  
So, I don’t have any changes on that to preview.  
  
But as Dr. Jha noted, our focus — and as we noted when we rolled out our
100-page plan — continues to be on tracking and reducing
hospitalizations and deaths.  And we’re certainly aware that a very —
with a very transmissible variant, that there — we expect that there
could be case increases, as we’ve seen over the last few weeks with
BA.2.  
  
Q    So, even in the regions that are witnessing a surge, I mean, there
is — there are no discussions that perhaps you can talk about — about,
you know, what these latest, sort of, surge in cases could potentially
lead to?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, but masking requirements change depending on what the
numbers look like in your community.  
  
Q    Right.  Okay.  And a quick one on the EU.  Reuters is reporting
that the EU plans to declare that it is entering a new post-emergency
phase for COVID.  Given, sort of, the uptick in cases in the U.S., I’m
wondering if you can talk a little bit about that timing.  I mean, is
that unusual?  Or do you think it is the right time for the — for
countries around the world to be headed towards that goal, and if the
U.S. is perhaps considering announcing something similar going
forward?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t — you mean an end of the emergency?  I don’t have
anything to preview.  Again, those recommendations are made by our
public health and medical experts, so we rely on them for their guidance
on that.  
  
Q    And can I ask one on Ukraine?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  
  
Q    So, just earlier today, the announcement from Germany on a new
package for heavier weapons —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    That obviously comes, you know, as Russia has said that such
assistance would lead to a nuclear war.  And it sort of seemed like the
U.S. was brushing off Russia’s recent nuclear threat.  And I’m wondering
if the administration — to what extent is it really taking this latest
threat seriously?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think you heard some of our national security
officials make clear there’s no winning a nuclear war.  And obviously,
our objective continues to be to call on reducing the rhetoric, on
taking the rhetoric on that front down.  
  
And I think there have been some officials who have abided by that.  But
I would note that the announcement by Germany is in line with
announcements we’ve seen by a number of European countries in providing
assistance they have never before provided, which is part of the
significance here.   
  
So, this is an unprecedented change to provide lethal aid to another
country, and that’s the significance here from Germany.  But I’d also
note that Norway provided Mistral anti-air missiles, that a number of
countries have provided types of assistance that they have never done in
the past.  And that really speaks to the signi- — the unity of NATO, of
European countries in confronting what we see as, of course, a horrific
war in Ukraine launched by the Russians.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Is it possible that there might be any updates to protocols — COVID
protocols within the White House in light of Vice President Harris
testing positive for COVID?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  I would not expect that, no.  
  
Q    So there have been no discussions, and you don’t expect that for
the time being?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I think it’s important to remember that we have stringent
protocols here that go over and above CDC recommendations, even as it
relates to how long you stay at home if you test positive.  So,
individuals who test positive for — here — and I can speak to this two
times over.  (Laughter.)  There you go.  You don’t return to work until
you have — you have received a negative test.  If that is before 10
days, you are still going to be masking.  That is beyond what CDC
protocols are.   
  
There’s a regular testing cadence.  Obviously, the Vice President was
tested this morning because of that regular testing cadence.  And for
the rest of us, anyone who’s going to be around the President, to travel
with him, to see him in the Oval Office is tested that day.  And even if
you’re not going to see him, you’re on a regular testing cadence around
here.  
  
We also take the step to socially distance in meetings as frequently as
we can.  And also, a number of us have chosen to wear masks in meetings
as well just as an additional step and protocol.   
  
So those have been in place prior to today, and we will continue to
abide by those moving forward.  
  
Q    And just on a different topic: Senator Manchin told reporters this
morning that there is not a Build Back Better revival.  He said that
social spending programs, he believes, should go through a regular
order, not through the reconciliation process.  I wondered if you could
explain just from the White House’s perspective how you all are thinking
about reconciliation versus regular order, in terms of wanting to get
done some of the President’s top legislative priorities.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, you’ve heard the President say many times that he
believes that a lot of the objectives he has should be achievable
through bipartisan work together.  It’s not Democrats to — you know,
Democrats shouldn’t be able to own efforts to reduce prescription drug
costs or the ability to negotiate the price of prescription drugs, nor
should we be the ones completely owning, on our own, efforts to lower
the cost of childcare or healthcare.  Those aren’t Democratic ideals. 
Those should be — those are — those are proposals that are broadly
supported by many Americans across the country.   
  
So, we — we know that Senator Manchin has, of course, talked about his
efforts to pursue a bipartisan package or bipartisan plan as it relates
to energy costs, and we’re not going to prejudge that effort.  But we’re
going to continue to engage with a broad range of Democrats, including,
of course, Senator Manchin about how to get the President’s agenda
done.  
  
Q    And is there anything you can tell us about the President’s
schedule today?  There wasn’t anything publicly announced.  Is he in
touch with members of Congress, particularly since they’re coming back
this week?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I expect he will have a range of conversations and
engagements with members of Congress.  He also has a range of internal
meetings, policy meetings, planning meetings.  There’s nothing more I
can preview on that from here.  But if — if there’s more I can tell you
after the briefing, I’m happy to do that.  
  
Go ahead, Weijia.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  I’ll start with something else Senator Manchin said
—  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  
  
Q    — since we’re just talking about him.  He said today: We need an
immigration policy, and Title 42 should not be done away with until we
get an immigration policy or until the CDC basically says we no longer
have a health crisis.  What does it say about the communication with
members of the President’s own party that Senator Manchin believes that
Title 42 is an immigration tool?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I can’t speak to that necessarily.  I can tell you
that — what it is and isn’t.  It is not an immigration tool; it is a
health authority and one the CDC — our health experts, of course — do
have authority to make a decision about. And they’ve made the decision
that the conditions no longer exist to keep Title 42 in place.  
  
We do agree with him.  Absolutely, there should be an immigration
policy, and there should be immigration reforms, and they are long
overdue.  And we’d love to work with him and any other members on moving
that forward.  
  
Q    Does it concern you that he’s saying that Title 42 should not be
done away with until there is an immigration policy?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, that’s just not how it works.  Obviously, Title 42 is
— the authority was given to the CDC by Congress.  They made a
decision.  If Congress wants to decide — make any decisions about the
next steps for Title 42, they can work together on that.  But that is an
authority or a decision that have to — would have to lay in the body
that he works in.  
  
Q    And then —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Oh, go ahead.  
  
Q    — I have a follow-up on what Dr. Jha said about Test to Treat
sites.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    What is the administration doing to expand those sites, including
converting some testing sites to have a treatment component?  What are
the challenges to that?  And do you have any timeframe for when you
expect to ramp up those facilities?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  It’s a really good question, Weijia.  I’ll probably
have to talk to Dr. Jha and others from the healthcare team about it. 
And next time, he’ll take more questions, I promise.   
  
You are right, there are some challenges, just like any aspect of
applying COVID policy or COVID treatment policies or COVID — efforts to
fight COVID policies, in that we have to educate a large swatch of
public, including healthcare providers, about this works or how it would
work.  There is continued efforts to do that, but I’m happy to check
with them on expansion plans or how that might work.  
  
Q    And then just one more quick one on vaccines for children under
five.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    The group Protect their Future is just one of many groups that are
urging the FDA to consider Moderna’s application for an EUA before June,
which is when Pfizer will also submit theirs.  What is your response to
these groups who are concerned that appears — concerned that it appears
the administration is doing Pfizer a favor by waiting to consider both
Moderna and Pfizer at the same time, when Moderna’s data is already
ready for review by the end of this week?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I’d really point you to the FDA for their decision-making
process.  But I would tell you that, of course, as a parent of a child
under five, I’m eager to have vaccines approved and available, and I
want to make sure they go through the proper protocols and process.  But
I would point you to the FDA.  
  
Q    And on clemency —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — there are 18,000 petitions pending for clemency.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    Is the President planning to increase his pace for consideration as
he talked about possibly doing?  And also, is there consideration about
a permanent clemency review process that would, you know, kind of
institutionalize this process going forward?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, let me — it’s important to note that the
President has issued more sentence commutations at this early point in
his presidency than any of the la- — his last five predecessors at the
same point in their first terms.  
  
So we are far ahead of anyone, any of the last five Presidents.  That is
because this is a priority to the President.  And as I noted, when I —
at the top of this briefing, he feels this is — second chances are
important, and he believes this is absolutely a right step in our
justice system.   
  
He is — he’s going to continue to review clemency petitions, and that is
going to be an ongoing process.  That is, of course, run through our
Counsel’s Office.  So it doesn’t stop here; it will be ongoing, and
there will be more in the future.  
  
Q    Thank you, Jen.  On Title 42, we’ve heard you guys say that this is
a public health order, it’s not an immigration order, it’s the CDC’s
decision.  But yesterday, members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus,
who met with the President, relayed some of what he expressed in that
meeting.  And one of them said that the President told the group that he
was looking forward to lifting Title 42, describing it as an excuse to
keep people out of the country and anti-immigrant.  Is the President
really wanting Title 42 to go away because it was a Trump-era policy?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, the President has never felt that Title 42 was a — an
effective immigration policy, and he talked about that during the
campaign.  But the authority has always rested in the CDC to make that
determination.  And he left the CDC to make that determination, unlike
his predecessor, about a range of decisions.   
  
So, the President has never — never made a secret of the fact that he
thinks immigration reform is necessary and that Title 42 was never a
replacement for comprehensive immigration reform that would put in place
smarter security, that would ensure there was an asylum processing
system that worked.  And that is something he would be eager to work
with anyone on to get done.  
  
Q    So if this — conditions warranted it, would the White House want to
see the CDC reimpose Title 42 in the instance that the cases are up and
the metrics that they use to measure that warrant that decision?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, the CDC, again, has the authority to make a
determination about what the health conditions warrant, so we will leave
it to them to make any decisions or recommendations.  
  
Q    And then, with the Vice President being out — obviously, she’s
broken a lot of ties for votes — and then we have senators; I believe
Warre- — Wyden and Murphy also out — is there any concern about ability
to get confirmations through this week with her absence?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say there are also some Democrats who have
announced that they have also tested positive for COVID.  You may be
referring to the Federal Reserve nominees or others.  That is something
that members and leaders will work through in Congress.  We are
confident we have the votes to get them confirmed.  We’re eager to have
them in place.  But, of course, we need all of people — all members
there to do that.  
  
Q    And then I had one follow-up on Dr. Jha — something that he said
earlier.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  
  
Q    We’ve talked about the administration surging resources to the
border —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — including resources to vaccinate migrants.  And the last time I
asked about this, I believe your answer was something along the lines
of, “We have enough funding and supply to take care of the 23 sites that
DHS is going to be running to get migrants vaccinated and also take care
of uninsured Americans.”  But it sounded, in his answer, like that might
not be the case anymore.  So are we in a place now where there might be
a choice where people would have to choose or the administration would
have to choose between supplying resources to migrants coming across the
border versus taking care of uninsured Americans?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I’m happy to check on those resources, Jacqui.  I would say
that our broad concern about COVID funding is based on a couple of
issues that he talked about.  One of them is making sure that we are
ahead of the world on being able to order ahead, primarily, a lot of
different treatments that will help ensure that we have the best
vaccines, the best boosters, enough supply once individuals under 50 are
eligible.   
  
And certainly, we want to keep all of our programs running across the
country.  But —  
  
Q    And I just have one more on the Hunter Biden reporting that we’ve
seen come out.  Does the President still maintain that he never spoke
with his son about his business dealings? And given this reporting on
Eric Schwerin, does he also say that he has never spoken to his son’s
business partners about his son’s business dealings?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  He maintains his same statements that he’s made in the
past.  I would say — I know you’re referring to WAVES records that were
released more than 10 years ago.  I really don’t have more detail or
information on them.  I’d note that there was a gap when WAVES records
were not released, but I don’t have more information about visits from
more than 10 years ago.   
  
Go ahead.  Oh, well, let me go around to people who haven’t gotten — go
ahead.  
  
Q    Oh, thanks.  Two questions on the war on Ukraine.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.    
  
Q    First of all, on food aid —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.   
  
Q    — does the administration have any idea of how much  
money you’ll need yet for global food aid, given the shortfalls into the
war on Ukraine?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  So — well, let me first say that we are not expecting
a food shortage here at home, but we are acting to bolster food security
around the globe, both unilaterally and in conjunction with allies and
partners.    
  
One of the steps we’re taking is we’re really conducting extensive
diplomacy to encourage all countries to refrain from export restrictions
and excessive stockpiling — obviously, buying up or not exporting goods
or products they would normally do — because it can exacerbate supply
chall- — chain challenges and price inflation.  And we want to consider
how to expand production of key areas where we could see that happening:
oil seeds and associated commodities.   
  
We’re also working through multilateral channels, including the G7, to
provide a range of funding to the Global Agriculture and Food Security
Program.  A $1.7 billion multilateral financing mechanism is part of
what we’ve done there that has helped the world’s poorest countries
increase investments in agriculture and food security as we’re
anticipating global — shortages in some regions of the world.   
  
And through Feed the Future, our new nutrition commitments, we’re also
committing over $11 billion over the next five years to address food
security threats and nutrition across the globe in addition to the over
$4 billion in humanitarian assistance funding.  
  
So we’ve taken a number of steps — funding mechanisms — you know,
multilateral financing mechanisms; also contributing and trying to use
through diplomatic channels, you know, efforts to prevent stockpiling
and decreasing of exports, because we anticipate it could be an issue,
and we’re already seeing that in some parts of the world.  
  
Q    Okay.  So no idea what the global overall total would be for how
much food —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t think we have a prediction of that at this point. 
So what we’re trying to do is we’re trying to get ahead of what we
anticipate being a shortage or an impact in some parts of the world and
working through multilateral mechanisms to help address that, even as we
don’t foresee it being a food shortage issue here.  
  
Q    And then on natural gas, Russia says it’s going to cut off Poland
starting tomorrow, which is a pretty big escalation by Russia.  Is the
administration concerned that Gazprom might cut off other European
nations from — to get natural gas supplies?  And is the U.S. going to do
anything to help Poland make up for —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  
  
Q    — shortages there?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Let me check and see if there’s anything specific to
Poland.  What I can tell you — and we’ve talked about the little bit in
— a little bit in here before — is that for the last several months, and
even prior to the invasion, we have been working to increase natural gas
supply and options to European countries that have been reliant on
Russia for natural gas supply in anticipation of the possibility of this
happening or a decrease in what they’re providing.  
  
So, some of that has been asking some countries in Asia who have excess
supply to provide that to Europe.  We’ve done that in some cases.  And
it’s been an ongoing effort, but I can see if there’s anything specific
for Poland, given this recent announcement.  
  
Go ahead, Matt.  
  
Q    Thank you.  Two questions on the pardons.  There were — pardons and
commutations.  There were three pardons; two of them were for nonviolent
drug offenses.  Can you talk at all about, sort of, what it was about
those two cases that stuck out to the President, given that there are a
lot of people who applied for pardons that have similar circumstances
and didn’t receive a pardon today?  Is there anything about those two
that are emblematic of anything that is on his —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Well, I think many of you reported on these cases and
the compelling nature of their personal stories.  But I would note that
his focus at this point in time was on individuals who had less than
four years to serve.  A number of them — a good percentage of them, and
I can find the exact number in here — are also already under home
confinement currently.  
  
And this is, again, just the first step.  And he will continue to review
clemency requests and petitions over the course of his presidency and,
certainly, in the coming months.  
  
Q    And then, in addition, there is a large backlog of people who have
applied for pardons and commutations.  And given that, was there any
denials in this first wave?  Is he denying anybody a pardon or a
commutation this —   
  
MS. PSAKI:  It’s a good question.  I’m happy to check with our counsel’s
office and see or if it was just — this was the first round that was
granted through the process.  
  
Go ahead, Sheryl.  
  
Q    Two questions, Jen.  First, following up on Dr. Jha, he said that —
he talked about global funding —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
    Q    — for the coronavirus pandemic.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    Republicans have said that they want that money offset.  So, has
the administration — does the administration intend to propose ways to
offset that $5 billion?  Or do you think that’s a lost cause?  
  
And, second, the President has a number of crowded events coming up on
his calendar — a couple of funerals, the White House Correspondents’
Dinner.  And in light of the Vice President’s diagnosis, can you talk
about the calculations that the President is making and thinking about
whether to attend these kinds of events, and also whether he has any
special obligation as President to keep himself safe?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Well, on the first question, Sheryl, we’re not quite
there yet.  I mean, we have requested 22.5 in the past, and obviously,
that is where our emergency requests will be moving forward for the
short-term needs that we have.   
  
This has been passed — past COVID funding, as you well know, has been
passed through emergency authorities where it hasn’t been offset.  And
we certainly think that’s reasonable.  But we’re at such the early stage
of this process, having not even sent it up to the Hill yet, we’re going
to have to have all of those conversations about how to move it
forward.  
  
On the second piece, what I will tell you is that we make risk
assessments here, just like every American does, and as it relates to,
of course, keeping the President safe and all of us safe.  
  
Now, naturally, he has access to the best healthcare in the world.  He
consults closely with his doctor.  We take a range of steps — I noted in
response to MJ’s question earlier — that go beyond even most workplaces
in the country in terms of required testing for those who — who will be
around him, social distancing.  Obviously, he has his own regular
testing cadence.  
  
But we do make assessments and he makes assessments about when he feels
it’s important for him to attend or participate in an event.  And you’ve
mentioned two of them — obviously, this weekend, he’ll be attending the
White House Correspondents’ Dinner.  It’s an opportunity to honor the
work of all of you and many of your colleagues and to — and to talk
about the importance of journalism in the world.  
  
That’s an event he’s attended many times in the past, and he made a
decision, through consultations, that it was an event he could attend
and wanted to attend again.  
  
And obviously, former Vice President Mondale is someone he had an
important personal relationship with.  He wanted to attend his memorial
service.  
  
Obviously, these discussions are always done through our scheduling
team, the COVID team to make sure we’re taking every step possible.  But
just like many Americans, he makes risk assessments.  
  
And I would say, the last piece — what you didn’t ask about, but, you
know, people ask about in here as well — is he has been traveling the
country more, recently.  You know, he was traveling three days last
week.  And we — in, of course, coordination with the President — made a
decision that was vitally important to him, to his presidency, to the
American people.  
  
And certainly, that’s one of the reasons we want to be very clear that
it is possible he could test positive for COVID.  That, just like any
American, even though he’s double boosted, that is possible.  And, you
know, we will, of course, be very transparent about that if that were to
take place.  
  
Q    Jen, do you have time for a few more questions?  We’re told you
have a hard out soon —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yes.  I do.  Go ahead.   
  
Q    — but didn’t know if you wanted to —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah, yeah.  And then I’ll try to go the back.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  Multiple outlets — CBS and Washington Post — have
reported today that in yesterday’s meetings with — meeting with the
Congressional Hispanic Caucus, that President Biden signaled that he was
prepared to use executive authority to cancel student debt in the coming
months.  Can you confirm that this was something relayed to them by the
President?  And why?  What exactly has the President considered doing
when it comes to — to student aid debt?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Well, let me use this opportunity to reiterate that
nobody has paid a sing- — a penny in student loan — federal student
loans since the President took office.  And what we’ve said from here is
that — and what he reiterated — is that he will make a decision before
there’s an end to that pause.   
  
Right now, it’s been extended through August.  And we have talked about
how we are looking at and he is looking at other executive authority
options he has to bring relief to people who have student loans.  So
that’s what he conveyed during the meeting yesterday.  
  
Q    Well, regarding using executive action, though, I mean, is that
something — a step now that the President is seriously looking at?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We’ve talked about that in the past, so he’s continuing to
look at it.  
  
Q    And then lastly, going back to Vice President Harris’s positive
test for COVID, is the White House trying to determine exactly where and
when she would have been exposed to COVID?  Is it the assumption that it
was during a trip to California last week?  And is the White House and
the Vice President’s Office doing any effort to contract \[sic\] trace
in order to maybe notify people —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.   
  
Q    — during that lengthy trip who she might have ran into?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Just like for anyone who tests positive around here, we do
contact tracing so that people are aware if they should take additional
measures or precautions, whether it’s masking or getting additional PCR
tests.  And we’re certainly doing that in light of the Vice President’s
positive test as well.   
  
Go ahead.    
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  I wanted to ask if the White House had any reaction
to that court case that put the temporary block on Title 42 being
repealed.   
  
And then I have a follow-up question about Vice President Harris.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Well, things sometimes happen when I’m out here.  But
when I — before I came out here, they had only done kind of the verbal
briefing, as of last night.  So I’m not sure if there’s — has there been
a new development?  Or that —  
  
Q    (Shakes head “no”.)  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Okay.  So what I will tell you is the Department of Justice
will need to review, kind of, any — any rulings before commenting.  And
that was verbal; there’ll be something more formal, is our expectation. 
And they would discuss any next legal steps or interpretation of the
ruling.  So we’ll leave that to them.  And we’ll see if more comes out
today.  
  
Q    And then, on Vice President Harris, do you know the last time she
was tested prior to this morning?  And is there any therapeutics that
she’s taking?  A doctor’s (inaudible) —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  So she’s on a regular testing protocol, just like the
President.  I can certainly check and see that information.   
  
And then, as Dr. Jha referenced, she would consult with her doctor on
any treatments.   
  
Go ahead, Nadia.   
  
Q    Thank you.  On foreign policy, National Security Advisor Jake
Sullivan is supposed to meet with his Israeli counterpart tomorrow.  The
Israelis have made it perfectly known that there is disagreement with
the White House vis-à-vis Iran and going back to the negotiation.  Can
you update us?  First of all, why he’s coming here?  What’s on the
agenda?  And I have another question.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Well, they consult regularly.  I would say, as you
know, the President had a fruitful conversation with Israeli Prime
Minister Bennett just a couple of days ago.  And so, this is a follow-up
to that conversation, and they’ll discuss a range of regional and global
security issues.   
  
And part of that — you know, the President, when he spoke with Prime
Minister Bennett, they also talked about a range of global and regional
issues, and Prime Minister Bennett extended an invitation for him to
visit Israel, which he accepted and will do.  We don’t have a date yet
to announce.   
  
They also talked about the Iran nuclear deal negotiations, which we — we
keep the Israelis briefed regularly on.  So, certainly that could be a
part of this conversation as well.  
  
Q    Also, Secretary Blinken this morning testified at the Senate
Foreign Relations Committee.  He said the breakout time for Iran is
weeks away.  He blamed the previous administration from withdrawing from
the deal.  Does this worry the White House that we’re talking about two
weeks that Iran could actually develop a nuclear weapon?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yes, it definitely worries us.  I would say that if we go
back, you know, under the — under the Iran nuclear deal, Iran’s nuclear
program was tightly constrained and monitored by international
inspectors.  And since the Trump administration ceased U.S.
participation in the deal, Iran has rapidly accelerated its nuclear
program and reduced cooperation with international inspectors in
non-performance of Iran nuclear deal commitments.   
  
So, as you noted, what Secretary Blinken said during his testimony this
morning was that their breakout period is down from about a year — which
is what we knew it was during the deal — to just a few weeks or less. 
And certainly, that is a direct impact of pulling out of the nuclear
deal, making us less safe, giving us less visibility.  And it’s one of
the reasons we pursued a diplomatic path, again, when the President took
office.   
  
Q    Follow on that one?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Okay, April, last one.  
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
Q    And then mine?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Okay, April last one.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Hi, Jen.  Two questions —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.   
  
Q    — really fast.  When it —  
  
Q    I thought you were going to the back.  
  
Q    When it comes —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Tomorrow is a new day.   
  
Q    Come on.    
  
MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead, April.   
  
Q    The back has never been called on.  
  
Q    Hello, this is April.  I’m sorry.  
  
Q    (Inaudible) in the back.  
  
Q    Jen, the two questions: On Haiti, what are the conversations?  Can
you shed light on the conversations about the Haitian immigration issue
as Title 42 is set to end next month?  
  
And also, as the Vice President has tested positive for COVID, and it is
in the realm of possibility as the President is traveling — if he gets
COVID, in this moment, what is the line of succession if both of them
are very ill with COVID at this point?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, technically, the Speaker of the House is the third in
line.  So, there you go.   
  
Q    I know, but I just want to make sure.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  No, I’m just confirming that for you.  It is true, as we’ve
noted many times, it is possible the President could test positive.  We
will be very transparent with you if that were to happen.  He has access
to the best healthcare in the — in the world.    
  
And we believe, because of all of the precautions and steps we have
taken, that he would be able to continue his duties, as the Vice
President is, as well, as Vice President.  So I don’t have any
prediction of that at this point in time.    
  
In terms of your first question on Haiti, tell me a little bit more
about what you mean.  
  
Q    The way I understand: that there has been conversation or various
conversations — to include at the U.N., here — about how do you handle
the Haitian migrant issue when Haitian are being sent back, and then
you’re bringing other refugees in.  And I’m hearing that there are
conversations around the administration about how to handle once Title
42 ends.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I would have to dig into this a little bit deeper.  And as
you know, there’s TPS — right? — that has been granted for a period of
time.  So that is something that Haitians who have been here at a
certain — from a certain point in time have access to.  Beyond that —  
  
Q    (Inaudible) Title 42.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  — our focus, though, is, of course, on continuing to be the
largest provider of aid and assistance to Haiti, ensuring we can take
steps there to lead in the world, encouraging other countries in the
world to take steps as well.    
  
Beyond that, maybe we can talk after the briefing and I can find out a
little bit more about what you mean.  I will go to the back tomorrow
first thing.  Thank you so much, everyone.   
  
3:57 P.M. EDT
