---
date: '2022-04-11'
modified_time: 2022-04-11 16:31:45-04:00
published_time: 2022-04-11 16:31:44-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/04/11/background-press-call-by-a-senior-administration-official-on-president-bidens-virtual-meeting-with-prime-minister-modi-of-india/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Background Press Call by a Senior Administration Official on President\_Biden\u2019\
  s Virtual Meeting with Prime Minister Modi of\_India"
---
 
Via Teleconference

12:39 P.M. EDT

MODERATOR:  Great, thank you.  And thank everyone for joining.  So, as a
reminder, this call is on background, attributable to a senior
administration official, and the contents of the call are embargoed
until the end of the call.

For your awareness and not for reporting, our speaker on the call today
is \[senior administration official\].  So, with that, I’ll turn it over
to you for some quick remarks at the top, and then we’ll take some
questions.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Great.  Thanks, \[moderator\], and
thank you to everyone for joining.  As \[moderator\] said, I will do
some remarks and we’ll do a few questions afterwards.

I just wanted to talk about the meeting that President Biden just held
with Prime Minister Modi.  He met virtually with Prime Minister Modi,
and this is ahead of the U.S.-India 2+2 ministerial that Secretary
Blinken and Secretary Austin are holding today with their Indian
counterparts. 

President Biden last spoke to Prime Minister Modi in early March, along
with other Quad leaders.  And as you all remember, President Biden
welcomed Prime Minister Modi in person to the White House last
September. 

During the course of the meeting, President Biden affirmed that our
partnership with India is one of our most important relationships, and
the two leaders had a chance to have an hourlong, very candid
conversation to discuss a range of bilateral and global issues.  The
meeting was warm and productive, and they covered a lot of ground. 

The leaders were able to talk about joint efforts on the global effort
to end the COVID-19 pandemic.  They talked about climate.  They talked
about strengthening the global economy.  And they talked about upholding
a free and open Indo-Pacific, including the development of the
Indo-Pacific Economic Framework and infrastructure. 

And President Biden also took the opportunity to continue the close
consultations we’ve been having with India at a number of different
levels across our government and over the course of many weeks on
Russia’s brutal war against Ukraine.  The U.S. and India are partnering
and consulting on mitigating the most destabilizing impacts, both on
global food supply and other commodity markets. 

And throughout the course of the 2+2, today, Secretary Blinken and
Secretary Austin, of course, will have the chance to go over these
issues and many more, including sanctions compliance — again, including
cooperation on food supply, including energy. 

And the 2+2 will cover also science and technology partnership
initiatives.  They’ll cover people-to-people ties.  They will cover
counterterrorism; operationalizing the Major Defense Partnership; new
domains of cooperation in space and cyber and emerging technologies; and
multilateral cooperation.

But the leaders meeting at the top was a very useful touchpoint for the
two of them to share perspective on a range of issues.

So, let me stop there and take a couple of questions.  Thanks.

MODERATOR:  Great.  Can we cue up the directions to ask a question,
please?

Q    Could you talk a little bit about whether there was any discussion
on the call about the energy purchases that India is making from Russia,
and whether those need to stop and whether there’s any formal kind of
agreement about what that would look like?  Thank you very much.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  The two leaders covered the whole range
of issues related to Russia-Ukraine.  It was a very candid
conversation.  I think you will have seen — even in Prime Minister
Modi’s remarks at the top to press, he talked about it as well.  They
were very direct conversations.

On the energy issues: Of course, it’s a subject of discussion.  We’re
aware of what India — you know, we haven’t asked India to do anything in
particular; we’re having a very open conversation.  We know that not all
countries will be able to do what we’ve done.  We know that India is not
a major consumer of Russian oil.  Its current imports are about 1 to 2
percent of its total energy imports. 

And, as of now, our energy payments — our energy payments are exempt
from current sanctions.  And we’ve been very clear that we’ve been able
to ban oil and LNG and coal imports from Russia, but other countries
have to make their own choices.

That said, we don’t think India should accelerate or increase imports of
Russian energy.  And the U.S. is ready to support India, remain in a
conversation with India about its diversification of imports.

Q    Hey there.  Following up on the last question, but maybe in a — in
a little bit broader way: India has obviously been among the nations
that had been more reticent to speak out against the war in Ukraine. 
They’ve obviously abstained from several votes at the U.N., including
the vote the other day to withdraw — to remove Russia from the Human
Rights Council. 

What — did the President bring that up?  Did the President — is this an
opportunity for the President to try to push India to be — you know,
essentially to take a side here, as opposed to the sort of neutral
position that they’ve taken?  Did he specifically do that?  Did he
specifically ask India to take a side?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So, India is going to make its own
judgments.  Prime Minister Modi brought up the situation, again, in his
public remarks, and there was discussion.  I mean, the President shared
his views, and Prime Minister Modi shared his views. 

You will have seen in recent days that India made some pretty strong
statements in New York condemning the killings of civilians, supporting
calls for an independent investigation.  India is also providing
humanitarian relief material to Ukraine, including medicine and other
supplies. 

There were close consultations in early days about the Indian students
that were — needed to be evacuated from Ukraine. 

So we’re going to continue these discussions with India.  I think India
will make its own decisions, but we’re going to continue the
discussions.

And as I mentioned earlier, there were conversations about how to
mitigate the destabilizing impacts of Putin’s war, including on food
supply, where India is in a position to assist — has done some things,
and there was discussion about what more India might be able to do.

Q    Hi.  Thank you, guys.  Sort of following up, actually, on both the
prior questions — I was wondering if any explicit commitments were made
by India in regards either on oil but more broadly.  I know you said
that the Prime Minister made some comments at the beginning that were
public where he seemed to use stronger words to condemn Russia’s
behavior.  Was that a sort of satisfactory condemnation from the Biden
administration’s perspective?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  What I’ll say is that Prime Minister
Modi took the opportunity to share his views in a pretty candid way
about what’s going on.   
  
We know that Russia has concerns — we know that India has concerns about
the links between Russia and China.  India, of course, is facing a very
tense situation along the Line of Actual Control.  And when India sees
the tight links between China and Russia, that’s obviously going to
impact their thinking.  
  
Whether there was — there was no sort of concrete ask and concrete
answer, but the leaders were able to step back and have a pretty
detailed and candid exchange of views.

Q    Hi, thank you.  Thank you for doing this.  I wanted to ask you if
the neighborhood was discussed, because the situations in both Sri Lanka
and Pakistan is not that very good.  Did that issue came up for
discussion, and what was it?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yes, the leaders did discuss
developments in the region, in South Asia.  They touched on some of the
developments in Sri Lanka, in Bangladesh.  And I know that our State
Department colleagues will be able to follow up on those discussions. 
It wasn’t a detailed discussion by the leaders, but it did come up.  And
I am positive there will be more detailed discussions throughout the
course of the next day and a half.

MODERATOR:  Great.  All right.  Well, thanks, everyone, for joining.  As
a reminder, this call was on background, attributable to a “senior
administration official.”  And the embargo on the call will lift at the
end of this call.   
  
If you have any other questions, please feel free to reach out to me and
we’ll make sure to get back to you.   
  
Thanks, everyone.

12:50 P.M. EDT
