---
date: '2025-08-14'
published_time: 2025-08-14 13:52:11-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/08/90th-anniversary-of-the-social-security-act/
tags: presidential-actions
title: 90th Anniversary of the Social Security Act
---
 
By the President of the United States of America

A Proclamation

On August 14, 1935, President Franklin D. Roosevelt signed into law the
Social Security Act — a monumental legislative achievement that protects
our seniors, uplifts our citizens, and sustains the livelihoods of
hardworking Americans who devoted their professions to bettering our
country.  On the 90th anniversary of the establishment of this historic
program, I recommit to always defending Social Security, rewarding the
men and women who make our country prosperous, and taking care of our
own workers, families, seniors, and citizens first.

To this day, Social Security is rooted in a simple promise:  those who
gave their careers to building our Nation will always have the support,
stability, and relief they deserve.  Thanks to my Administration’s
efforts, Social Security now stands stronger and more resilient than
ever before.  Following the passage of the historic One Big Beautiful
Bill last month, the vast majority of seniors who receive Social
Security will pay zero tax on their Social Security benefits — the
largest tax break for seniors in the history of our country.

To further strengthen Social Security, my Administration is aggressively
rooting out all fraud, waste, and abuse that rob our Federal programs of
resources — including stopping payments to the deceased and eliminating
benefits for those who do not legally qualify.  These measures will save
American taxpayers billions of dollars every year and ensure that future
generations receive the benefits they spent their lives paying into.  At
the same time, I am making the Social Security Administration more
efficient, more responsive, and more effective than ever before —
reducing wait times and delivering the payments the American people
worked hard to earn.  I am also proudly restoring strong border security
policies to ensure that Medicare and Social Security are preserved for
the citizens who paid into them — not abused by illegal aliens who have
no right to be here.

On this 90th anniversary of the Social Security Act, we recognize the
countless contributions of every American senior who has invested their
time, talent, and resources into our Nation’s future.  On this momentous
milestone, we recommit to strengthening our retirement system,
protecting programs like Social Security and Medicare against fraud and
abuse, and ensuring that every future generation of American citizens
has the income security they need and earned.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, DONALD J. TRUMP, President of the United States of
America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and
the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim August 14, 2025, as
the 90th Anniversary of the Social Security Act.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this

fourteenth day of August, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-five, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and fiftieth.

                               DONALD J. TRUMP
