---
date: '2025-08-07'
published_time: 2025-08-07 15:52:27-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/08/improving-oversight-of-federal-grantmaking/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Improving Oversight of Federal Grantmaking
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, and to improve the process of
Federal grantmaking while ending offensive waste of tax dollars, it is
hereby ordered:

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Section</span>
<span style="text-decoration: underline">1</span>.
 <span style="text-decoration: underline">Purpose</span>.  Every tax
dollar the Government spends should improve American lives or advance
American interests.  This often does not happen.  Federal grants have
funded drag shows in Ecuador, trained doctoral candidates in critical
race theory, and developed transgender-sexual-education programs.  In
2024, one study claimed that more than one-quarter of new National
Science Foundation (NSF) grants went to diversity, equity, and inclusion
and other far-left initiatives.  These NSF grants included those to
educators that promoted Marxism, class warfare propaganda, and other
anti-American ideologies in the classroom, masked as rigorous and
thoughtful investigation. 

The harm imposed by problematic Federal grants does not stop at
propagating absurd ideologies.  An unsafe lab in Wuhan, China — likely
the source of the COVID-19 pandemic — engaged in gain-of-function
research funded by the National Institutes of Health.  The NSF gave
millions to develop AI-powered social media censorship tools — a direct
assault on free speech.  Taxpayer-funded grants have also gone to
non-governmental organizations that provided free services to illegal
immigrants, worsening the border crisis and compromising our safety, and
to organizations that actively worked against American interests abroad.

Even for projects receiving Federal funds that serve an ostensibly
beneficial purpose, the Government has paid insufficient attention to
their efficacy.  For example, a significant proportion of the results of
federally funded scientific research projects cannot be reproduced by
external researchers.  Even at Harvard and Stanford, once considered
among America’s most prestigious universities, senior researchers have
resigned following accusations of data falsification.  A substantial
portion of many Federal grants for university-led research goes not to
scientific project applicants or groundbreaking research, but to
university facilities and administrative costs.   

The grant review process itself also undermines the interests of
American taxpayers.  Writing effective grant applications is notoriously
complex, and grant applicants that can afford legal and technical
experts are more likely to receive funds — which can then further
support these non-mission functions.  In addition, there is insufficient
interagency coordination and review by relevant subject matter experts
to reduce duplication.  As a result, the best proposals do not always
receive funding, and there is too much unfocused research of marginal
social utility.

In short, there is a strong need to strengthen oversight and
coordination of, and to streamline, agency grantmaking to address these
problems, prevent them from recurring, and ensure greater accountability
for use of public funds more broadly.  The Government holds tax revenue
in trust for the American people, and agencies should treat it
accordingly.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">2</span>.
 <span style="text-decoration: underline">Definitions</span>.  For
purposes of this order:

\(a\)  The term “agency” has the meaning given to it in section 551 of
title 5, United States Code, except that such term includes only
agencies that have the statutory authority to award, offer, or manage
Federal grants and does not include the Executive Office of the
President or any components thereof.

\(b\)  The term “agency head” means the highest-ranking official or
officials of an agency, such as the Secretary, Administrator, Chairman,
Director, Commissioners, or Board of Directors, unless otherwise
specified in this order.

\(c\)  The term “Director” means the Director of the Office of
Management and Budget (OMB).

\(d\)  The term “discretionary award” or “discretionary grant” means a
grant that is a “discretionary award” as that term is defined in 2 CFR
200.1.  It does not include programs where legislation establishes an
entitlement to the funds on the part of the recipient, such as block
grants; those awarded based on a statutory formula; or disaster recovery
grants.

\(e\)  The term “funding opportunity announcement” means a “notice of
funding opportunity” as defined in 2 CFR 200.1, as it pertains to a
discretionary award.

\(f\)  The term “grant” means any “grant agreement or grant” as defined
in 2 CFR 200.1, “cooperative agreement” as defined in 2 CFR 200.1, or
similar award of financial assistance, including foreign assistance
awards.

\(g\)  The term “regulation” means an agency statement of general or
particular applicability and future effect designed to implement,
interpret, or prescribe law or policy or describing the procedure or
practice requirements of an agency, including, without limitation,
regulations, interpretative rules, and statements of policy.

\(h\)  The term “senior appointee” means an individual appointed by the
President, a non-career member of the Senior Executive Service, or an
employee encumbering a Senior Level, Scientific and Professional, or
Grade 15 position in Schedule C of the excepted service.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">3</span>.
 <span style="text-decoration: underline">Strengthening Accountability
for Agency Grantmaking</span>.  (a)  Each agency head shall promptly
designate a senior appointee who shall be responsible for creating a
process to review new funding opportunity announcements and to review
discretionary grants to ensure that they are consistent with agency
priorities and the national interest.  For the avoidance of doubt, this
process shall not guarantee any particular level of review or
consideration to funding applicants except as consistent with applicable
law.  As consistent with applicable law, this review process shall
incorporate, at a minimum:

\(i\)    review and approval of agency funding opportunity announcements
by one or more senior appointees or their designees;

\(ii\)   continuation of existing coordination with OMB;

(iii)  to the extent appropriate to the subject matter of the
announcements, review by designated subject-matter experts as identified
by the agency head or the agency head’s designee; 

\(iv\)   review of funding opportunity announcements and related forms
to ensure that they include only such requirements as are necessary for
an adequate evaluation of the application and are written in plain
language with a goal of minimizing the need for legal or technical
expertise in drafting an application;

\(v\)    interagency coordination to determine whether the subject
matter of a particular funding opportunity announcement has already been
addressed by another agency announcement and, if so, whether one of the
announcements should be modified or withdrawn to promote consistency and
eliminate redundancy;

\(vi\)   for scientific research discretionary grants, review by at
least one subject matter expert in the field of the application, who may
be a member of the grant review panel, the program officer, or an
outside expert; and

\(vii\)  pre-issuance review of discretionary awards to ensure that the
awards are consistent with applicable law, agency priorities, and the
national interest, which shall involve in-person or virtual discussion
of applications by grant review panels or program offices with a senior
appointee or that appointee’s designee. 

(b)  Agency heads shall designate one or more senior appointees to
review discretionary awards on an annual basis for consistency with
agency priorities and substantial progress.  Such review shall include
an accountability mechanism for officials responsible for selection and
granting of the awards.

\(c\)  Until such time as the process specified in subsection (a) of
this section is in place, agencies shall not issue any new funding
opportunity announcements without prior approval from the senior
appointee designated under subsection (a) of this section, except as
required by law.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">4</span>.
 <span style="text-decoration: underline">Considerations for
Discretionary Awards</span>.  (a)  Senior appointees and their designees
shall not ministerially ratify or routinely defer to the recommendations
of others in reviewing funding opportunity announcements or
discretionary awards, but shall instead use their independent judgment.

\(b\)  In reviewing and approving funding opportunity announcements and
discretionary awards, as well as in designing the review process
described in section 3(a) of this order, senior appointees and their
designees shall, as relevant and to the extent consistent with
applicable law, apply the following principles, including in any scoring
rubrics used to assess grant proposals:

(i)    Discretionary awards must, where applicable, demonstrably advance
the President’s policy priorities. 

\(ii\)   Discretionary awards shall not be used to fund, promote,
encourage, subsidize, or facilitate:

\(A\)  racial preferences or other forms of racial discrimination by the
grant recipient, including activities where race or intentional proxies
for race will be used as a selection criterion for employment or program
participation;

\(B\)  denial by the grant recipient of the sex binary in humans or the
notion that sex is a chosen or mutable characteristic;

\(C\)  illegal immigration; or

\(D\)  any other initiatives that compromise public safety or promote
anti-American values.

\(iii\)  All else being equal, preference for discretionary awards
should be given to institutions with lower indirect cost rates.

\(iv\)   Discretionary grants should be given to a broad range of
recipients rather than to a select group of repeat players.  Research
grants should be awarded to a mix of recipients likely to produce
immediately demonstrable results and recipients with the potential for
potentially longer-term, breakthrough results, in a manner consistent
with the funding opportunity announcement.

\(v\)    Applicants should commit to complying with administration
policies, procedures, and guidance respecting Gold Standard Science.

(vi)   Discretionary awards should include clear benchmarks for
measuring success and progress towards relevant goals and, as relevant
for awards pertaining to scientific research, a commitment to achieving
Gold Standard Science.

\(vii\)  To the extent institutional affiliation is considered in making
discretionary awards, agencies should prioritize an institution’s
commitment to rigorous, reproducible scholarship over its historical
reputation or perceived prestige.  As to science grants, agencies should
prioritize institutions that have demonstrated success in implementing
Gold Standard Science.

\(c\)  Nothing in this order shall be construed to discourage or prevent
the use of peer review methods to evaluate proposals for discretionary
awards or otherwise inform agency decision making, provided that peer
review recommendations remain advisory and are not ministerially
ratified, routinely deferred to, or otherwise treated as de facto
binding by senior appointees or their designees.  Further, nothing in
this order shall be construed to create any rights to any particular
level of review or consideration for any funding applicant except as
consistent with applicable law.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">5</span>.
 <span style="text-decoration: underline">Revisions to the Uniform
Guidance</span>.  (a)  The Director shall revise the Uniform Guidance
and other relevant guidance to streamline application requirements and
to further clarify and require all discretionary grants to permit
termination for convenience, including when the award no longer advances
agency priorities or the national interest, but subject to appropriate
exceptions, including agreements entered into in furtherance of
international trade agreements or those awarded by the Department of
Commerce under title XCIX of the William M. (Mac) Thornberry National
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 (Public Law 116-283), the
CHIPS Act of 2022 (Public Law 117-167), or division F of the
Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (Public Law 117-58).

\(b\)  The Director shall further revise the Uniform Guidance and other
relevant guidance to appropriately limit the use of discretionary grant
funds for costs related to facilities and administration.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">6</span>.
 <span style="text-decoration: underline">Implementation and Termination
Clauses</span>.  (a)  Within 30 days of the date of this order, each
agency head shall review the agency’s standard grant terms and
conditions and submit a report to the Director detailing:

(i)    whether the agency’s standard terms and conditions for
discretionary awards permit termination for convenience and include the
termination provisions described in 2 CFR 200.340(a), including the
provisions that an award may be terminated by the agency “if an award no
longer effectuates the program goals or agency priorities” or, in the
case of a partial termination by the recipient, if the agency
“determines that the remaining portion of the Federal award will not
accomplish the purposes for which the Federal award was made”;

(ii)   whether the agency’s standard terms and conditions for
discretionary foreign assistance awards permit termination based on the
national interest; and

\(iii\)  the approximate number of active discretionary awards at the
agency, as well as the approximate percentage of funding obligated under
those awards that contains termination provisions allowing for
termination under the circumstances described in subsection (i) of this
section.

\(b\)  Each agency head shall, to the maximum extent permitted by law
and consistent with relevant Executive Orders or other Presidential
directives, take steps to revise the terms and conditions of existing
discretionary grants to permit immediate termination for convenience, or
clarify that such termination is permitted, including if the award no
longer advances agency priorities or the national interest.  Each agency
head shall ensure that such terms are included in all future
discretionary grants and likewise shall take steps to revise all
applicable regulations binding on or incorporated in discretionary grant
terms and conditions to require such terms.  Agency heads shall take
action to incorporate these new terms and conditions into all future
amendments to grant awards.

\(c\)  To the extent practicable and consistent with applicable law,
agency heads shall insert in future discretionary grant agreements terms
and conditions that:

(i)   prohibit recipients from directly drawing down general grant funds
for specific projects without the affirmative authorization of the
agency; and

\(ii\)  require grantees to provide written explanations or support,
with specificity, for requests for each drawdown.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">7</span>. 
<span style="text-decoration: underline">General Provisions</span>.  (a)
 Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

\(i\)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or
agency, or the head thereof; or

\(ii\)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

\(b\)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.

\(c\)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

\(d\)  If any provision of this order, or the application of any
provision to any person or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the
remainder of this order and the application of its provisions to any
other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

\(e\)  The costs for publication of this order shall be borne by the
Office of Management and Budget.

                              DONALD J. TRUMP

THE WHITE HOUSE,

    August 7, 2025.
