---
date: '2025-08-28'
modified_time: 2025-08-28 16:23:02-04:00
published_time: 2025-08-28 16:23:01-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/08/making-federal-architecture-beautiful-again/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Making Federal Architecture Beautiful Again
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered:

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Section</span> <span style="text-decoration: underline">1</span>.
 <span style="text-decoration: underline">Purpose</span>.  The Founders,
in line with great societies before them, attached great importance to
Federal civic architecture.  They wanted America’s public buildings to
inspire the American people and encourage civic virtue.  President
George Washington and Secretary of State Thomas Jefferson consciously
modeled the most important buildings in Washington, D.C., on the
classical architecture of ancient Athens and Rome.  They sought to use
classical architecture to visually connect our contemporary Republic
with the antecedents of democracy in classical antiquity, reminding
citizens not only of their rights but also their responsibilities in
maintaining and perpetuating its institutions.  

Washington and Jefferson personally oversaw the competitions to design
the Capitol Building and the White House.  Under the direction and
following the vision of these two Founders, Pierre Charles L’Enfant
designed the Nation’s capital as a classical city.  For approximately a
century and a half following America’s founding, America’s Federal
architecture continued to be characterized by beautiful and beloved
buildings of largely, though not exclusively, classical design.  In the
1960s, the Federal Government largely replaced traditional designs for
new construction with modernist and brutalist ones.  The Federal
architecture that ensued, overseen by the General Services
Administration (GSA), was often unpopular with Americans.  The new
buildings ranged from the undistinguished to designs even GSA now admits
many in the public found unappealing.    

In 1994, GSA responded to this widespread criticism by establishing the
Design Excellence Program.  The GSA intended that program to “provide
visual testimony to the dignity, enterprise, vigor, and stability of the
American Government.”  Unfortunately, the program has not met this
goal.  Under the Design Excellence Program, GSA has often selected
designs by prominent architects with little regard for local input or
regional aesthetic preferences.  The resulting Federal architecture
sometimes impresses the architectural elite, but not the American people
who the buildings are meant to serve.  Many of these new Federal
buildings are not even visibly identifiable as civic buildings.  
     It is time to update the policies guiding Federal architecture to
address these problems and ensure that architects designing Federal
buildings serve their clients, the American people.  

     Sec. 2.  Policy.  (a)  Applicable Federal public buildings should
uplift and beautify public spaces, inspire the human spirit, ennoble the
United States, and command respect from the general public.  They should
also be visually identifiable as civic buildings and, as appropriate,
respect regional architectural heritage.  Architecture — particularly
traditional and classical architecture — that meets the criteria set
forth in this subsection is the preferred architecture for applicable
Federal public buildings.  In the District of Columbia, classical
architecture shall be the preferred and default architecture for Federal
public buildings absent exceptional factors necessitating another kind
of architecture.  

\(b\)  Where the architecture of applicable Federal public buildings
diverges from the preferred architecture set forth in subsection (a) of
this section, great care and consideration must be taken to choose a
design that commands respect from the general public and clearly conveys
to the general public the dignity, enterprise, vigor, and stability of
America’s system of self-government.  

\(c\)  When renovating, reducing, or expanding applicable Federal public
buildings that do not meet the criteria set forth in subsection (a) of
this section, the feasibility and potential expense of building redesign
to meet those criteria should be examined.  Where feasible and
economical, such redesign should be given substantial consideration,
especially with regard to the building’s exterior.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>. <span style="text-decoration: underline">3</span>.
 <span style="text-decoration: underline">Definitions</span>.  For the
purposes of this order:  
(a)  “Applicable Federal public building” means:  

\(i\)    all Federal courthouses and agency headquarters;  

\(ii\)   all Federal public buildings in the National Capital Region;
and  

\(iii\)  all other Federal public buildings that cost or are expected to
cost more than $50 million in 2025 dollars to design, build, and finish,
but does not include infrastructure projects or land ports of entry.  

\(b\)  “Brutalist architecture” means the style of architecture that
grew out of the early 20th-century modernist movement that is
characterized by a massive and block-like appearance with a rigid
geometric style and large-scale use of exposed poured concrete.  

\(c\)  “Classical architecture” means the architectural tradition
derived from the forms, principles, and vocabulary of the architecture
of Greek and Roman antiquity, and as later developed and expanded upon
by such Renaissance architects as Alberti, Brunelleschi, Michelangelo,
and Palladio; such Enlightenment masters as Robert Adam, John Soane, and
Christopher Wren; such 19th-century architects as Benjamin Henry
Latrobe, Robert Mills, and Thomas U. Walter; and such 20th-century
practitioners as Julian Abele, Daniel Burnham, Rafael Carmoega, Charles
F. McKim, John Russell Pope, Julia Morgan, and the firm of Delano and
Aldrich.  Classical architecture encompasses such styles as
Neoclassical, Georgian, Federal, Greek Revival, Beaux-Arts, and Art
Deco.  

\(d\)  “Deconstructivist architecture” means the style of architecture
generally known as “deconstructivism” that emerged during the late 1980s
and that features fragmentation, disorder, discontinuity, distortion,
skewed geometry, and the appearance of instability.  

\(e\)  “General public” means members of the public who are not:  

\(i\)   artists, architects, engineers, art or architecture critics,
instructors or professors of art or architecture, or members of the
building industry; or  

\(ii\)  affiliated with any interest group, trade association, or any
other organization, whose membership is financially affected by
decisions involving the design, construction, or remodeling of public
buildings.  

\(f\)  “Public building” has the meaning given that term in section
3301(a)(5) of title 40, United States Code.  

\(g\)  “Traditional architecture” includes classical architecture, as
defined herein, and also includes the historic humanistic architecture
such as Gothic, Romanesque, Second Empire, Pueblo Revival, Spanish
Colonial, and other Mediterranean styles of architecture historically
rooted in various regions of America.  

\(h\)  “2025 dollars” means dollars adjusted for inflation using the
Bureau of Economic Analysis’s Gross Domestic Product price deflator and
using 2025 as the base year.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>. <span style="text-decoration: underline">4</span>.
 <span style="text-decoration: underline">Guiding Principles for Federal
Architecture</span>.  (a)  Executive departments and agencies (agencies)
shall to the extent practicable adhere to the following Guiding
Principles for Federal Architecture:  

(i)    The policy shall be to provide requisite and adequate facilities
in an architectural style and form that is distinguished and that will
reflect the dignity, enterprise, vigor, and stability of the American
Government.  Because of their proven ability to meet these requirements,
classical and traditional architecture are preferred modes of
architectural design.  This preference does not exclude the possibility
of alternative styles in appropriate circumstances.  Major emphasis
should be placed on the choice of designs that embody architectural
excellence.  Specific attention should be paid to the possibilities of
incorporating into such designs qualities that reflect the regional
architectural traditions of that part of the Nation in which buildings
are located.  Where appropriate, fine art should be incorporated in the
designs, with emphasis on the work of living American artists.  Designs
shall adhere to sound construction practice and utilize materials,
methods, and equipment of proven dependability.  Buildings shall be
economical to build, operate, and maintain, and should be accessible to
the handicapped.  

(ii)   Design must flow from the needs of the Government and the
aspirations and preferences of the American people to the architectural
profession, and not vice versa.  Competitions for the design of Federal
buildings should be held where appropriate.  The advice of distinguished
architects practiced in classical or traditional architecture should, as
a rule, be sought prior to the award of important design contracts.  

(iii)  The choice and development of the building site should be
considered the first step of the design process.  This choice should be
made in cooperation with local agencies.  Special attention should be
paid to the general ensemble of streets and public places of which
Federal buildings will form a part.  Where possible, buildings should be
located so as to permit a generous development of landscape.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>. <span style="text-decoration: underline">5</span>.
 <span style="text-decoration: underline">GSA Actions</span>.  (a)  The
Administrator of General Services (Administrator) shall adhere to the
policies and principles set forth in sections 2 and 4 of this order, and
shall expeditiously update GSA policies and procedures to incorporate
such policies and principles and advance the purposes of this order.  

\(b\)  The Administrator shall:  

(i)    ensure that GSA architects whose duties include reviewing,
assisting with, or approving the selection of architects or designs for
applicable Federal public buildings have formal training in, or
substantial and significant experience with, classical or traditional
architecture;  

\(ii\)   create the position of senior advisor for architectural design,
for an individual with specialized experience in classical architecture,
to help develop GSA procedures, advise on architectural standards, and
provide guidance during design evaluations or design juries;  

\(iii\)  where the design of an applicable Federal public building is
selected pursuant to a design-build competition under section 3309 of
title 41, United States Code, list experience with classical or
traditional architecture as specialized experience and technical
competence in the phase-one solicitation, and give substantive weight to
these factors when evaluating which offerors will be advanced to phase
two; and  

(iv) consistent with sections 4302 and 4312 of title 5, United States
Code, make advancing the purposes and implementing the policies of this
order a critical performance element in the individual performance plans
of the Chief Architect of GSA and appropriate subordinate employees in
the GSA Public Buildings Service involved in selecting designs for
applicable Federal public buildings  

\(c\)  Where GSA intends to select a building design pursuant to a
design competition, the Administrator shall actively recruit
architectural firms and, as applicable, designers with experience in
classical and traditional architecture to enter such competition and
shall, to the extent practicable, ensure that multiple designs in such
modes are advanced to the final evaluation round.  

\(d\)  In the event the Administrator proposes to approve a design for a
new applicable Federal public building that diverges from the preferred
architecture set forth in subsection 2(a) of this order, including
Brutalist or Deconstructivist architecture or any design derived from or
related to these types of architecture, the Administrator shall notify
the President through the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy
not less than 30 days before GSA could reject such design without
incurring substantial expenditures.  Such notification shall set forth
the reasons the Administrator proposes to approve such design,
including:  

\(i\)    a detailed explanation of why the Administrator believes
selecting such design is justified, with particular focus on whether
such design is as beautiful and reflective of the dignity, enterprise,
vigor, and stability of the American system of self-government as
alternative designs using preferred architecture;  

\(ii\)   the total expected cost of adopting the proposed design,
including estimated maintenance and replacement costs throughout its
expected lifecycle; and  

\(iii\)  a description of the designs using preferred architecture
seriously considered for such project and the total expected cost of
adopting such designs, including estimated maintenance and replacement
costs throughout their expected lifecycles.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>. <span style="text-decoration: underline">6</span>.
 <span style="text-decoration: underline">General Provisions</span>.
 (a)  Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise
affect:  

\(i\)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or
agency, or the head thereof; or  

\(ii\)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative
proposals.  

\(b\)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.  

\(c\)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.  
 

(d)  The costs for publication of this order shall be borne by the
General Services Administration.  
  
  
  
                               DONALD J. TRUMP  
  
  
  
THE WHITE HOUSE,  
    August 28, 2025.
