---
date: '2025-08-28'
published_time: 2025-08-28 16:06:28-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/08/overdose-prevention-week-2025/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Overdose Prevention Week, 2025
---
 
By the President of the United States of America  
  
A Proclamation

The safety, health, and well-being of our people is essential to
building a resilient Nation.  Tragically, one of the gravest threats to
American lives is the drug overdose crisis, which has caused heartbreak
and suffering on untold numbers of families.  This Overdose Prevention
Week, we remember those who lost their lives to overdose, we stand
beside the families left to grieve, and we renew our solemn commitment
to ending this epidemic once and for all.  

Under the previous administration, our country endured a catastrophe of
unimaginable proportions on our southern border.  Deadly drugs like
fentanyl and other opioids flooded into our cities and towns, falling
into the hands of our children, siblings, parents, friends, and
neighbors, and leaving devastation in their wake.  Over the past year,
more than 80,000 of our fellow citizens have died from drug overdoses. 
Children have vanished from classrooms, parents from dinner tables, and
entire neighborhoods have been shaken by unconscionable grief and
sorrow.  

To combat this vicious assault on the American people, in July, I
proudly signed into law the HALT Fentanyl Act, which classifies
fentanyl-related compounds as Schedule I drugs.  I also designated
cartels as foreign terrorist organizations — and with the passage of the
historic One Big Beautiful Bill, we are expanding the southern border
wall and deporting violent drug traffickers who prey on our Nation’s
most vulnerable.  I will continue to do everything in my power to
protect children and families, end the scourge of drug addiction, and
keep lethal substances out of our communities and out of the hands of
our citizens.  

During this week, my Administration calls on every American to protect
themselves and their families from the perils of drug overdose. 
Preserving our American inheritance depends on freedom from danger,
freedom from harm, and freedom to lead long, safe, and vigorous lives. 
My Administration will never stop fighting to achieve a future that
protects its citizens, defends its communities, and ensures that the
American people are happy, healthy, and free.  

NOW, THEREFORE, I, DONALD J. TRUMP, President of the United States of
America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and
the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim August 31 through
September 6, 2025, as Overdose Prevention Week.  I call upon my fellow
Americans to observe this week with appropriate programs, ceremonies,
religious services, and other activities that raise awareness about the
prescription opioid and drug overdose epidemic and to consider concrete
follow-up activities.  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
twenty-eighth day of August, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-five, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and fiftieth.  
  
  
                               DONALD J. TRUMP
