---
date: '2022-07-13'
modified_time: 2022-07-13 11:20:12-04:00
published_time: 2022-07-13 11:20:11-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/07/13/remarks-by-president-biden-at-arrival-ceremony/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at Arrival\_Ceremony"
---
 
Ben Gurion Airport  
Tel Aviv, Israel

3:44 P.M. IDT 

THE PRESIDENT:  President Herzog, Mr. Prime Minister Lapid, it’s an
honor to once again stand with friends and visit the independent, Jewish
State of Israel.

President Nixon was the first American president to visit Israel in
1974.

I was actually — my first visit was, as you mentioned, as a young United
States senator from Delaware in 1973, just a few weeks before the Yom
Kippur War. 

I had the privilege of spending time with Prime Minister Golda Meir. 
I’ll never forget — I was sitting next to a gentleman on my right, one
of her aides.  His name was Rabin. 

I look back on it all now, and I realize that I had the great honor of
living part of the great history of this great — and I did say and I say
again, you need not be a Jew to be a Zionist.

The fact is that, since then, I’ve known every single Prime Minister and
it’s been an honor, formed strong working relationships with each of
them.

And now, this is my 10th visit.

Every chance to return to this great country, where the ancient roots of
the Jewish people date back to biblical times,

is a blessing.  Because the connection between the Israeli people and
the American people is bone deep.  It’s bone deep.

And generation after generation, that connection grows.  We invest in
each other.  We dream together.  We’re part of what has always been the
objective we both have. 

I’ve been part of that as a Senator, as a Vice President, and, quite
frankly, before that, having been raised by a righteous Christian who —
we had dinner at our table every night before he went back to work, and
it was a place where we had conversation and, incidentally, ate.  And I
remember he taught us all about what happened in the Holocaust.  “Why
weren’t the tra- — tracks bombed?  Why did we not — why, why, why?”  And
he imbued in us a sense of obligation that we all have.

And now, as President, I’m proud to say that our relationship with the
State of Israel is deeper and stronger, in my view, than it’s ever been.

And with this visit, we are strengthening our connections even further. 
We’ve reaffirmed the unshakable commitment of the United States to
Israel’s security, including partnering with

Israel on the most cutting-edge defense systems in the world.

From here, I’m going straight to a briefing on Israeli missiles and
rocket defense capabilities, including the U.S. support for the Iron
Dome and Israel’s new laser-enabled system

called the Iron Beam. 

We’re going to deepen our connections in science and innovation and work
to address global challenges through the new Strategic High-Level
Dialogue on Technology.

We’ll continue to advance Israel’s integration into the region; expand
emerging forums and engagement — like the new I2U2 Summit, which will
bring Israel, the United States, the UAE together, and India as well —
to deepen economic cooperation between the Middle East and the
Indo-Pacific.

Greater peace.  Greater stability.  Greater connection.

It’s critical.  It’s critical, if I might add, for all the people of the
region, which is why we’ll be — we’ll discuss my continued support —
even though I know it’s not in the near-term — a two-state solution. 
That remains, in my view, the best way to ensure the future of equal
measure of freedom, prosperity, and democracy for Israelis and
Palestinians alike.

We’re going to celebrate the <s>ending of</s> \[enduring\]
people-to-people connection and the enduring connection that binds our
nations together, and commemorate the history that we must never allow
to repeat itself.

Later today, I will once more return to the hallowed ground of Yad Sh- —
Vashem to honor the 6 million Jewish lives that were stolen in a
genocide and continue — which we must do every, every day — continue to
bear witness, to keep alive the truth and <s>honor</s> \[horror\] of the
Holocaust — horror of the Holocaust, honor those we lost so that we
never, ever forget that lesson, you know, and to continue our shared,
unending work to fight the poison of anti-Semitism wherever it raises
its ugly head.  Wherever we find it in the world, we make real on the
promise of “never again” by taking it on. 

We have a full agenda over the next two days, because the relationship
between Israel and the United States covers every issue that matters to
our mutual futures.  

We’re united in our shared values and are our shared vision.  I’m
looking forward to our time together over the next few days. 

May Israel and the United States continue to grow and prosper together
for the benefit of the entire world.  And I mean that: for the benefit
of the entire world.

Thank you.  And God bless you all.  (Applause.) 

3:50 P.M. IDT
