---
date: '2022-07-15'
modified_time: 2022-07-15 19:06:30-04:00
published_time: 2022-07-15 19:06:29-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/07/15/remarks-by-president-biden-on-his-meetings-in-saudi-arabia/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on His Meetings in Saudi\_Arabia"
---
 
Waldorf Astoria Jeddah  
Jeddah, Saudi Arabia

10:45 P.M. AST

THE PRESIDENT: I know it’s late, but thank you for being here. I had a
good series of meetings. I just finished more than two hours of meetings
with Saudi leadership here in Jeddah, meeting with the King for about a
little over half an hour, a working session with the Crown Prince and
all the ministers from the — from the energy minister to the sports
minister, all the way down the line. And got the chance to talk to
basically the entire Saudi government.

And thanks to many months of quiet diplomacy by the staff, we’ve
accomplished some significant business today.

First, as you saw this morning, the Saudis will open their airspace to
all civilian carriers. That is a big deal. A big deal. Not only substan-
— not only symbolically, but substantively, it’s a big deal. It means
Saudi airspace is now open to flights to and from Israel. This is the
first tangible step in the path of what I hope will eventually be a
broader normalization of relations.

Second, we concluded a historic deal that — to transform a flashpoint at
the heart of the Middle East wars into an area of peace. International
peacekeepers, including U.S. troops, will leave Tiran Island in the Red
Sea, where they’ve been for over 40 years since the Camp David Accords.
Five American soldiers died on this strategically located island in
2020, and it’s important to remember them today.

Now, thanks to the break- — this breakthrough, this island will be open
to tourism and economic development while retaining all the necessary
security arrangements and — and the present freedom of navigation of all
parties, including Israel.

Third, we agreed to work together to deepen and extend the Yemen
ceasefire. And you know there’s been — there’s carnage been in Yemen of
late. And it’s been in place more than three months, resulting in the
most peaceful period in Yemen in seven years.

We further agreed to pursue a diplomatic process to achieve a wider
settlement in Yemen. The Saudi — and Saudi leadership also committed to
continue to facilitate the delivery of food and humanitarian goods to
civilians. In this context, we discussed Saudi Arabia’s security needs
to defend the Kingdom, given very real threats from Iran and Iran’s
proxies.

Fourth, we concluded several new arrangements to better position our
nations for the coming decades. Saudi Arabia will invest in new U.S.-led
technology to develop and secure reliable 5G and 6G networks, both here
and in the future, in developing countries to coordinate with the
Partnership for Global Initiative — the Global Infrastructure and
Investment, which I put together at the G7. This new technology solution
for 5G, called Open RAN, will outcompete other platforms, including from
China.

Saudi Arabia will also partner with us on a far-reaching clean energy
initiative focused on green hydrogen, solar, carbon capture, nuclear,
and other projects to accel- — to accelerate the world’s clean energy
transition and to help the U.S. clean energy industry set global
standards.

And fifth, we had a good — we had a good discussion on ensuring global
energy security and adequate oil supplies to support global economic
growth. And that will begin shortly. And I’m doing all I can to increase
the supply for the United States of America, which I expect to happen.
The Saudis share that urgency, and based on our discussions today, I
expect we’ll see further steps in the coming weeks.

Finally, we discussed human rights and the need for political reform. As
always — as I always do, I made clear that the topic was vitally
important to me and to the United States.

With respect to the murder of Khashoggi, I raised it at the top of the
meeting, making it clear what I thought of it at the time and what I
think of it now. And it was exactly — I was straightforward and direct
in discussing it. I made my view crystal clear. I said very
straightforwardly: For an American President to be silent on an issue of
human rights, is this consistent with — inconsistent with who we are and
who I am? I’ll always stand up for our values.

So that’s a quick summary of tonight’s outcomes.

Tomorrow, with nine leaders from around the region, we’ll have more. One
thing we will discuss is the multibillion-dollar commitment of the GCC
to invest in the Partnership for Global Infrastructure Investment, which
I announced at the G7 last month, to help address infrastructure needs
of low- and middle-income countries that don’t have the wherewithal to
borrow the funds to meet the needs of their people.

And after years of failed efforts, we have now finalized an agreement to
connect Iraq’s electric grid to the GCC grids through Kuwait and Saudi
Arabia, and deepening Iraq’s integration into the region and reducing
its dependence on Iran. And it was pointed out to me that remi- — I was
reminded by staff at the time, at the meeting, that I tried to do that
back when I was — in the early days of my vice presidency. Finally, it’s
done — being done.

Tomorrow, I’ll also be laying out an affirmative framework for America’s
engagement in the Middle East to build on these important steps going
forward.

The bottom line is: This trip is about once again positioning America in
this region for the future. We are not going to leave a vacuum in the
Middle East for Russia or China to fill. And we’re getting results.

I’ll take a couple of questions now.

Q    What was the Crown Prince’s response to your comments about
Khashoggi?

THE PRESIDENT: He basically said that he — he was not personally
responsible for it. I indicated that he probably was. He said he was not
personally responsible for it and he took action against those who were
responsible. And — and we — and then I went on to talk more about how
that dealing with any opposition to the — or criticism of the Saudi
administration in other countries was viewed as, to me, a violation of
human rights. There was no (inaudible).

Q Sir, two quick questions, if I may. First, we just heard from Jamal
Khashoggi’s wife, who said, “After this visit, the blood of MBS’s next
victim is on your hands.” What do you say to Mrs. Khashoggi?

THE PRESIDENT: I’m sorry she feels that way. I was straightforward back
then. I was straightforward today.

What I — this is a meeting not — I didn’t come here to meet with the
Crown Prince.  I came here to meet with the GCC and nine nations to deal
with the security and — and the needs of the free world, and
particularly the United States, and not leave a vacuum here, which was
happening as it has in other parts of the world.

Q On gas prices, if I may, you said that we’ll see relief at some point
in the not-too-distant future. What is the message to Americans who are
looking for that relief now? When should they expect to see a real
change in prices, though they’ve already been coming down?

THE PRESIDENT: But there’s been a real change.

THE PRESIDENT: That’s right. They’ve been coming down every single day,
to the best of my knowledge.

Q When will we see the impact of this visit?

THE PRESIDENT: I suspect you won’t see that for another couple weeks.
And we’ll see more when we see gas stations start to lower their price
consistent with what they’re paying for the oil. That’s another issue.

Q Mr. President, do you regret calling the Saudis a “pariah” during your
campaign?

THE PRESIDENT: I don’t regret anything I said.

Next question.

Q Do you still feel that way though, Mr. President?

THE PRESIDENT: I just answered your question, “Do I regret it?” I don’t
regret anything that I said. What happened to Khashoggi was outrageous.

Q Mr. President?

THE PRESIDENT: Yes.

Q You’re coming under a lot of fire for your fist bump with the Crown
Prince. Why —

THE PRESIDENT: (Laughs.)

Q    I just wanted to give you a chance to respond to that. 

And — but also, how can you be sure that another incident, another
murder like Jamal Khashoggi’s won’t happen again?

THE PRESIDENT: Well — God love you. What a silly question. How could I
possibly be sure of any of that? I just made it clear if anything occurs
like that again, they’ll get that response and much more.

Look, you’ve heard me say before — and when I criticized Xi Jinping for
slave labor and what they’re doing in the — in the western mountains of
China, and they said I had no right to criticize China. And I said,
“Look, I am President of the United States of America. For the United
States President to remain silent on a clear violation of human rights
is totally inconsistent with who we are, what we are, and what we would
do, what we believe.” And so I’m not going to remain silent.

Can I predict anything is going to happen, let alone here, let alone in
any other part of the world? No.

But I don’t know why you’re all so surprised the way I react. No one has
ever wondered did I mean what I say. The question is I sometimes say all
that I mean.

Q    And what —

THE PRESIDENT: That’s the —

Q But what about your response to the despots?

Q Did you manage to —

THE PRESIDENT: Thank you.

Q On the issue of climate, Joe Manchin obviously made significant news
right now, which appears to be torpedoing what was one of your biggest
priorities as it relates to energy and to climate back at home. Your
message to those Americans right now who are looking for that relief
that would have a wide impact as it affects the climate and energy
specifically?

THE PRESIDENT: I am not going away. I’m going to use every power I have
as President to continue to fulfill my pledge to move toward dealing
with global warming.

Thank you very much.

Q Mr. President, is Joe Manchin negotiating in good faith?

THE PRESIDENT: I didn’t negotiate with Joe Manchin. I have no idea.

END 10:55 P.M. AST
