---
date: '2022-07-30'
modified_time: 2022-07-31 13:15:28-04:00
published_time: 2022-07-30 13:14:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/07/30/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-the-democratic-national-committees-100-days-out-grassroots-event/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris\_at the Democratic National Committee\u2019\
  s\_100 Days Out Grassroots\_Event"
---
 
*Democratic National Committee Headquarters  
Washington, D.C.*

2:07 P.M. EDT THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Hello, everybody!  (Applause.)  Well,
can we give it up for the first Second Gentlemen of the United States of
America?  (Applause.)   
  
But listen — let me just — I wanted to talk about my husband for a
second.  My husband — I love my husband.   
  
AUDIENCE:  Awww —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  But let me tell you, one of the things that has
been so wonderful to see about who we are as Democrats and who Joe Biden
is — when he said, “I know that a woman can be Vice President” — right?
— is that with that came another history-making event, which is there is
now not a second lady, but a second gentlemen.  And what that means —
let’s think about it because I’m going to talk for a moment — in a
moment about what we stand for as Democrats.  And a lot of what we stand
for — if you want to step back and think about it — is, as Joe Biden
often says, “the possibilities.”  We as Democrats having an ability to
see what is possible, what can be, unburdened by what has been.   
  
And so when I’m talking about my husband, part of that is about saying
that a man can be successful and be very successful in supporting his
wife, and women in positions of leadership (inaudible).  (Applause.)  
  
Well, what’s up, Democrats?  How’s everybody doing?  (Applause.)   
  
Well, we’ve got 100 days before midterms, and we got a lot of work to
do.  And I’ll tell you, I’ve been thinking about it: I have campaigned
for so many years, for myself and for other people, and I know what you
all have been doing, what you are prepared to do.  And I can’t thank you
enough, because the details of the work really matter.   
  
You know, I was reminded — and I was talking with some of my team.   
  
Oh, wait — okay, so who campaigned in ’08?  Okay.  Oh, okay, just a
few.  (Laughter.)  Nobody else was born.  (Laughter.)  Well, I’m going
to go back to the olden days and talk to you a little bit about ’08 for
a second.   
  
In ’08, of course, it was Barack Obama and Joe Biden running as the
Democratic nominee for President and Vice President.  And I was actually
a surrogate for that campaign.  I was attorney general at the time —
well, actually, I was DA, then I was attorney general.    
  
And ’08, so — the night of the election in ‘08 was in Chicago because,
of course, our nominee, now President and former-President Barack Obama
was from Chicago.  So it was at a place called Grant Park.  And there
was a big night, and there were tents everywhere.  All the volunteers,
all the supporters flew into town, drove into town, ran into town to be
there for what we expected would be a great celebration.   
  
So I got into town after doing campaigning in various places.  And it
was the day of the election.  And everybody was getting all ready for
the parties.  And I was like, “Well, the polls are still open.  Wait,
what’s happening?  The polls are still open.”  And so then I went over
to the campaign headquarters, and I said, “What’s going on in various
parts of the country?  Like, what do we need to do?”  And they said,
“Well, ma’am, you know, we really need to turn out some folks in Gary,
Indiana.”   
  
So I grabbed a couple of friends.  We rented a car, and we drove to
Gary, Indiana, that day to go work the polls and to remind people to
vote hours before the polls were going to close, because until the very
last minutes, everything we do matters.  From the 100 day out to seconds
before the polls close, everything we do matters.   
  
And what is it we do?  We see people.  We hear people.  We love people. 
We engage with folks.  We listen.  We embrace.  We remind folks that we
live in a community of people who care about one another, who are
invested together, who are all in this together.  Who, no matter the
seeming differences, know that the vast majority of us have so much more
in common than what separates us.  That’s what we do.  That’s who we
are.   
  
And so, all the folks who are here virtually and in person, this is what
we’re doing.  We’re here 100 days out saying, “We know everything we are
doing right now matters because of what we stand for and because of the
work that we put in that is truly in its process — not only about
winning an election, but lifting our country around that kind of
engagement.”  Right?   
  
So that’s the power of what everyone here — virtually and in person,
that’s the power of what you’re doing.   
  
I will say, the way to measure the strength of a person — it’s not based
on flexing.  You want to see the real strength of who you are, lift
somebody up, help somebody and you will see how strong you are.  It is
extraordinary what each of us has the power to do, to lift somebody
up.   
  
So that’s what this process is about.  It has meaning every single
day.  
  
In 2020, our volunteers, all of you, collectively made 300 million
texts, 300 million calls, knocked on doors.  Remember, we had to do all
those — those drive-ins because of COVID?  But we got people there, and
helped people organize and drive in, and engage them under some very
difficult circumstances.  Because the nature of who we are is we like
hanging out with each other — right? — in person.   
  
But we were not deterred, because we understood what was at stake in
2020.    
  
And as a result of your hard work, we turned out more voters than ever
before at an historic level, including — at a historic level — younger
voters.   
  
So I am reminding us of all of this to, first and foremost, on behalf of
the President and myself, to say thank you.  But also because I know our
power collectively — starting right now and every day for these next 100
days — to do what we know how to do.   
  
And let’s think about it.  So when we go out and we call people and
we’re going to phonebank and we’re going to knock on doors, and we’re
going to do what we do.  One of the things that voters are always going
to ask us, because they are right to ask us — you know, they’re going to
ask us, “Why should I vote?”  They’re going to say — (baby cries) —
“What did I get for voting before?”   
  
Well, let’s listen to the voices of the children, because one of the
things that folks got is — they said when they voted — I think sometimes
of voting as you just putting in your order.  This is what you want.  So
when people stood in those lines for hours, when they sat at their
kitchen table for hours figuring out how they were going to fill out
their ballot to vote by mail, when they drove by those drop boxes with
their kids in the backseat patiently waiting to drop off that ballot:
They were putting in an order.   
  
And one of the things that they said they want was that we would focus
on the children.  So what ended up happening?  We won — all of us — and
extended the Child Tax Credit in America with the effect of, in the
first year, bringing down child poverty in America by 40 percent.  We
did that.  (Applause.)  We did that.   
  
Focusing on the children — understanding if you want to help the
children, help the family in which that child is being raised.  We said,
“You want to talk about tax cuts, how about a tax cut for families
raising children?”  And so we put in place a tax cut where families
raising children can deduct the cost of food and medicine and school
supplies of up to $8,000, which is 8,000 more dollars in their back
pocket to take care of their essential needs.  People said they wanted
it, and that’s what they got for the time they took to put in their
order and vote.  
  
People said, “We want to know that you’re going to focus on things like
maternal mortality,” which we have, as an administration, put on the
stage of the White House to say, “Not in America should we have a
situation where we have one of the highest rates of maternal mortality
of any so-called “developed or financially advanced country.”  We said,
it is not okay that Black women are three times more likely to die in
connection with childbirth; Native women, one and a half times more
likely to die in connection with childbirth — twice as likely actually;
and rural women, one and a half times likely.  So we put that on the
front burner, and we said, “We need to deal with it.”   
  
Including, if you say you care about children, let’s understand — again,
help the child in the context of the family that is raising that child,
including understanding that we need a new system, which this
administration has pushed for postpartum care for women and saying, “No,
states, instead of two months of Medicaid coverage for postpartum, we
want twelve months coverage for postpartum because she just gave birth
to a human being and needs to be able to have the kind of care that is
truly about supporting her.”   
  
People put in their order.  They said, “Through this pandemic, it became
very clear a number of disparities, including who has access to or can
afford high-speed broadband.”  So we passed an infrastructure law where
we’re putting billions of dollars to make sure everyone will have access
and can afford broadband, including giving folks $30 a month off of what
they would pay, including saying they’ll get $100 credit to buy the
technology so that when it comes time, if necessary for the child to
learn online, much less for you to run a small business or for seniors
to have access to telemedicine if they don’t have a hospital nearby. 
And this is the kind of work that should happen.  That’s what we did
because people put in their order.   
  
People went and voted because we said to them, “We hear you when you say
it is time to have a Black woman on the United States Supreme Court.” 
(Applause.)  And so, folks elected Joe Biden, knowing that — remember? —
in South Carolina, he said, “I will put a Black woman on the United
States Supreme Court.  They put in that order, and that’s what they got
because they stood in line to vote.   
  
People said, “We live in communities, in particular poor communities or
communities of color, where our children are having to drink toxic water
out of lead pipes.  We want to know that that’s going to be addressed
once and for all.”  So what are we in the process of doing?  Eliminated
those lead service lines in communities across our country, hearing what
the grandfathers and grandmothers and teachers in those communities have
been saying for years about the consequence of drinking that poisoned
water, to the development and wellbeing of the children of those
communities.   
  
People put in their order.  They said, “We want to restore the
relationships between the United States and our Allies and partners
around the world.  We want to know that you will work with our partners
around the world.”  And as a result, you are now seeing not only did we
bring together NATO in what many would agree was a historic alliance
because of Putin’s aggression in Ukraine.  But in addition, because of
the leadership —  
  
And I’ve been traveling around the world.  I have had direct
conversations — probably at least 100 — with prime ministers,
presidents, and kings.  And almost every time at the beginning of those
conversations, they say, “Thank you,” to us, “for restoring some
sensibility and reason in terms of America’s posture around the world,”
including what is now happening with two new countries about to join
NATO — unheard of before.  (Applause.)  
  
And we can’t talk about our success without also being clear about when
people go to vote, what’s on the other side.  So I will tell you, not
one Republican in the United States Senate, since our administration
came in, voted for the Child Tax Credit or for that tax cut or
voting.   
  
We are seeing extremist so-called leaders around the country — at a
local, state, and federal level — who are pushing an agenda that is
about the restriction of rights instead of what we are supposed to stand
for, which is about progress and the expansion of rights.   
  
The United States Supreme Court just talk a constitutional right that
had been recognized — took it from the American people, from the women
of America.   
  
And around the country now, so-called leaders — extremist so-called
leaders are passing laws to criminalize healthcare providers to punish
women.  Elections matter.  What we are seeing around the country
includes attacks on women and their right to make decisions about their
own bodies.   
  
And we are seeing — you will not be surprised because I have constructed
a Venn diagram on this.  Remember those three circles — how they
overlap?  (Laughter.)  So I constructed a Venn diagram because I was
really curious.  I want to see one circle from where are we seeing
attacks on a woman’s right to make decisions about her body —
reproductive healthcare.  Where are we seeing attacks on voting rights? 
Where are we seeing attacks on the LGBTQ+ rights?  Well, you all would
not be surprised to know there’s a significant overlap.   
  
This is what we are seeing around the country.  Elections matter. 
Because, be clear: These laws will empower local officials like
prosecutors, where they are punishing and criminalizing conduct to
exercise their discretion on whether someone gets prosecuted. 
Understand, on the voting rights issue, it’s state elections, in terms
of secretaries of state, governors, attorneys general.   
  
And then, of course, we know what we need in terms of a pro-choice
Congress, which is why there is so much at stake, because elections
matter.  We need to hold our numbers in the United States Senate, and we
need two or more pro-choice Democrats in the United States Senate. 
(Applause.)  
  
To be clear, Joe Biden has said he will not allow the filibuster, which
is a tool that has been used for obstruction of good ideas — he will not
allow the filibuster to stand in the way of passing the John Lewis
Voting Rights Advancement Act and the Freedom to Vote Act and the
Women’s Health Act.  (Applause.)  
  
Two more senators.  We need two more senators.   
  
So there’s a lot at stake, guys.  And I’ll tell you something: What’s
also at stake is the very heart and core of our democracy.   
  
So when I first came into office, and — so the Second Gentleman and I
live in a place called the Vice President’s residence at the Naval
Observatory.  And one of the first foreign dignitaries, heads of state
that I received and invited to come over for breakfast was
then-Chancellor Angela Merkel.  And so we’re sitting at the table, and
we talked about a lot of things from Russia, to China, to (inaudible). 
And then at one point, she leaned across the table and she said, “Tell
me what’s going on in your country with voting?  What’s up with these
attacks?  What’s happening there?”  
  
You look at what’s happening in terms of what we thought were settled
principles on LGBTQ rights, which now are at risk because Clarence
Thomas said the quiet part out loud, so we know what’s up.   
  
You look at what we thought was settled in terms of Roe v. Wade and a
woman’s right to make decisions.   
  
I bring this up to say, in meeting with all of the foreign heads of
state that I’ve met with, we must put in context the fact that America
has always held ourselves out to be a model of a democracy.  To walk in
these rooms with our chin up and our shoulders back, talking about
issues like human rights, civil rights, rule of law, democracies.   
  
All of these countries are watching what’s happening right now, which
calls into question our standing on some fundamental issues, as it
relates not only to what is happening in our own country, but our
ability to then weigh in, in terms of what’s happening around the
world.   
  
Democracy is on the ballot as much as everything else that affects us
all on a daily basis.   
  
So I say all of this to say to you, our extraordinary leaders of our
party who are gathered today, everything you are prepared to do
matters.  It really matters.  And the challenge this election time is
because the stakes are so high.   
  
We always say that, but I mean, the stuff that we felt was well settled
is now clearly being debated and challenged and attacked.   
  
I say this because the challenge of this election cycle is also: We are
coming off of a pandemic, and we’re asking people to engage and to get
out there.  Right?  People who have suffered loss of life, jobs,
normalcy.  People who we literally asked to isolate, and now we are
asking them to congregate.   
  
So the challenge is in front of us.  But I will remind everyone, it was
a big old challenge in 2020 and we rose to it with joy and vigor and
purpose and commitment and optimism, because we understand what we stand
for, so we know what to fight for.  (Applause.)   
  
And so that’s what we are doing.  And today is a day to prepare for our
fight.  (Laughter.)   
  
And so, again, I want to — you know, 100 days is going to pass quickly. 
We can’t get any one of these days back.  But you all know that.  That’s
why you’re here on a Saturday when there are 10,000 other things each of
you could be doing, and you’re here fighting for the best of who we
are.  And so I thank you.   
  
There are people who are going to benefit from this work that you will
never meet, people who will never know your name or my name, but who are
going to forever be benefited because of the work you’re putting in.   
  
So I thank you.  Everyone, thank you.  (Applause.)  
  
END                2:31 P.M. EDT
