---
date: '2022-07-20'
modified_time: 2022-07-20 09:52:20-04:00
published_time: 2022-07-20 09:52:19-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/07/20/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-to-the-2022-u-s-africa-business-summit/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris to the 2022 U.S.-Africa Business\_Summit"
---
 
Via Recorded Video

As Prepared for Delivery

Greetings from Washington, D.C. I want to thank the Corporate Council on
Africa, the Kingdom of Morocco, and His Majesty King Mohammed for
hosting the 2022 U.S.-Africa Business Summit. I am honored to
participate in this opening ceremony.

President Joe Biden and I recognize the critical importance of
strengthening our relationship with countries across Africa. To that
end, I will start with some very important news. President Biden and I
are looking forward to welcoming leaders from across the African
continent to Washington, D.C. from December 13<sup>th</sup> through the
15th, for the United States-Africa Leaders Summit.

This Summit will demonstrate America’s enduring commitment to our
African partners, and it will be based on principles of mutual respect
and shared interests and values. And a critical part of this Summit will
be to bolster our economic relationship, which brings me to the
importance of this gathering of public and private sector leaders in
Marrakech.

I believe in the power of public-private —partnerships that bring
together the experience and the expertise of the private sector with the
mission of government to act for the public good and with the public
trust, and the reach and capacity that governments can give, uniquely,
to any endeavor.

By working together, we can unleash growth and opportunity that far
exceeds what either the public or private sector can achieve on its own.
And, as everyone here knows, there is so much opportunity for economic
growth –in Africa and, of course, the United States—when we all
collaborate and coordinate. 

Africa is the world’s fastest-growing continent. By 2030, the continent
will have 1.7 billion people, home to one-fifth of the world’s
population. The continent is also increasingly young, urban and
connected. There is a growing demand for food, healthcare, education,
technology, and infrastructure.

Yet, barriers remain: limited access to capital, the high cost of
financing, and legal and regulatory bottlenecks. This is on top of the
global challenges that I know are felt acutely in Africa, including
recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic, the climate crisis, and food
insecurity.

The Biden-Harris Administration is committed to working with all of you
to address these issues, in furtherance of  the African Union’s Agenda
2063.

With regard to food insecurity, we are focused on the urgent need to
increase food production and exports with and within Africa, a challenge
made worse by Putin’s war in Ukraine. To this end, since last October,
the United States has pledged more than $7 billion in humanitarian and
food security assistance across Africa.

More broadly, our Administration’s goal is to promote inclusive and
sustainable economic growth and development across the continent, to
expand capital flows, and to promote the vibrant spirit of
entrepreneurship and innovation that is so prevalent across Africa.

I am pleased to see the advances made in implementing the African
Continental Free Trade Area and we will work with you to ensure its
success.

The United States is committed to bring to bear all the tools at our
disposal, including, development financing, grants and technical
assistance, and support for legal and regulatory reforms—all to help our
African partners thrive.

As part of this, our signature investment initiative in Africa—Prosper
Africa—has convened a delegation to be with you in Marrakech. Led by
Millennium Challenge Corporation CEO Alice Albright, it includes
officials from 10 U.S. government departments and agencies. It also
includes a group of investors who collectively manage more than a
trillion dollars in assets.

Over the coming days, our delegation will discuss with you a range of
issues. This includes work to advance our new global infrastructure
initiative, and our work to mobilize hundreds of billions of dollars for
high-quality, sustainable infrastructure investment.

It also includes our effort to expand Power Africa, one of our largest
public-private partnerships in the world—this work will increase access
to electricity, support a just energy transition, and more.

This week’s convening is very important. When everyone is at the table,
we are better able to collaborate, coordinate, and identify new
opportunities. So, I wish you a productive Summit in Marrakech.

This work will benefit United States-African business ties and
diplomatic ties. And most importantly, it will benefit both the people
of Africa and the people of the United States.

Thank you. 
