---
date: '2022-07-21'
modified_time: 2022-07-21 21:56:48-04:00
published_time: 2022-07-21 21:56:47-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/07/21/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-to-members-of-omega-psi-phi-fraternity/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris\_To Members of Omega Psi Phi\_Fraternity"
---
 
*Carole Hoefener Center  
Charlotte, North Carolina *

THE VICE PRESIDENT:   Thank you.  Good afternoon to the Brothers of the
Omega Psi Phi.  It’s good to be with you all.  
  
I just — I stopped by — I’m so happy that this worked out.  I’m on my
way to the airport.  I came here to North Carolina to talk about a few
things, but I’m so happy to see you.  The last time, Dr. Marion, we were
all together was — what was it 2019, Atlantic City?  
  
AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Atlantic City.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Right.  Atlantic City.  And we had a huge group
there, and I know for the Conclave this is the first time probably in
two years — right? — that you’ve been in person.  
  
AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Four years.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Four years in person.  Right.   
  
I just attended our sorority’s Boulé.  We had that in Orlando just a
couple — last week, wasn’t it?  Last week.  (Inaudible.)  
  
So, it’s so good to see everybody.  
  
And listen, I just wanted to come by to say thank you.  We’ve been
through a lot in our nation over the last couple of years.  And the men
of Omega Psi Phi, as always, as I have known you my entire life, I feel
have been leaders — national leaders on so many important issues and
including what you all did to elect Joe Biden and to elect me as Vice
President of the United States.  (Inaudible.)  (Applause.)   
  
And I think — I mean, when I was at the Boulé in Orlando, I was talking
about how our sorority, with so many of our sister sororities — the
Divine Nine as a whole — really organized folks around that important
election.  
  
And, you know, now we’re 110 days out from a midterm that is so
critically important.  
  
And if you don’t mind, I’ll talk just a little bit about that, because
I’m here to also, yet again, come to you to ask for your leadership and
to thank you in advance for what I know you’ve already planned to do.   
  
A hundred and ten days out.  And right now — I’ll just be very frank
with you — we need to elect two more senators in the United States
Senate who are willing to pass the John Lewis Voting Rights Act and the
Freedom to Vote Act — (applause) — who are willing to take seriously and
pass the George Floyd Justice in Policing Act.  (Applause.)  Who will
stand up for the Women’s Health <s>Initiative</s> \[Protection\] Act.
  (Applause).    
  
Two votes, right here in North Carolina — Cheri Beasley — (applause) —
who can win (inaudible).  
  
I was just in Pennsylvania — John Fetterman — right? — who can win.  And
if we pick up some seats, then during the course of our administration,
we can really see through what we got started.  
  
But because of all that you did as leaders, who then inspire other
leaders, we did win in 2020 because we convinced people based on our
good word and standing in community that it would matter, and it did.   
  
You know, I was just over — I was with the governor of North Carolina,
Roy Cooper, and we were talking about it.  Our administration was able
to extend the Child Tax Credit, which is why we were able in the first
year to lift over 40 percent of Black children in America out of
poverty.  
  
We were able to pass — (applause) — a tax cut for working families of up
to $8,000 a year, which means more money in their pocket to pay for
school supplies and medication and food for their children.  We put over
$5 billion into our HBCUs because we know they are — (applause) —
(inaudible).  
  
We have, through our Delta sister, Marcia Fudge — Secretary Marcia Fudge
at HUD — taken on one of the longstanding civil rights issues, which has
been fair housing, and looking at a very specific issue beyond what we
know has been the historic and current issues of things like redlining,
but also one of the issues that has received more attention because we
are handling it, which is racially biased home appraisals, knowing that
our families, our greatest source of wealth and intergenerational wealth
— meaning passing it from the grandparent to the children to
grandchildren — is homeownership.   
  
However, with home appraisals, we still have an issue — you all have
heard the stories — those stories of a Black family trying to sell them
home, and then the appraiser comes in and appraises the home for what
they know is undervaluing the home.  
  
So they have friends of the family who are a white family, so they
invite that family to come in and put up their family pictures and take
down the Black family’s pictures.  
  
The appraiser comes in and, all of a sudden, the appraisal is much
higher.  Racial bias in home appraisals, which then directly impact the
ability of a Black family and, by extension, the community to pass on
intergenerational wealth.  These are some of the things we’ve been
taking on, but there’s so much more to do.  
  
And so, I’m here to ask you to help us with this because there is so
much at stake.  
  
You look at states like Georgia, like Texas.  You look at what some of
these folks in North Carolina are doing and South Carolina are doing to
do to attack the right of people to vote.  And you know why they’re
doing it?  You can see a direct link between what Omega Psi Phi and so
many others did to increase the voter turnout, which was record highs —
(applause) — and the backlash — the backlash — because they saw folks,
who weren’t turning up before, turned out.  And then all of a sudden,
after the election, among those who were denying and lying, frankly —
excuse my word — but lying about who won the election.  By the way, we
won.  (Applause.)   
  
But then they decided, well, maybe a way to do it is to pass laws that —
for example, now in Georgia — make it illegal to give folks food and
water if they’re standing in line to vote.  Passing laws to make it more
difficult to vote around trying to get rid of drop boxes.  Why do we
need drop boxes?  Well, if you are a single father or a single mother
and you got them three kids back — bad kids in the backseat — (laughter)
— and you know you want to go vote, you know you can’t get out and stand
in line to vote and wait for four hours.  But you can pack them kids in
the backseat after — the night before — you filled out your ballot, and
then drive over to the drop box, drop it off, and keep driving. 
Right?  
  
And these are the kinds of things, the details that matter about what we
are up against.   
  
And so, I’m here to thank you and to ask you that we continue to educate
— as is the history of this so important fraternity — to always educate
the people about what is at stake, and to inspire through the model of
your success and leadership, to inspire people to see what is possible,
and to also remember who we are, who we have been, and who we’re going
to be.  Because that is who this organization is.   
  
And one last point that I’d like to raise is the issue of choice,
because I need your help — and I’m just having a candid conversation
here — about how we are going to talk with our young men.  Because I
think it is very important that we not leave our young men out of any
conversation that is of national importance.   
  
And I think it’s important to also recognize and agree that one does not
have to abandon their faith or their beliefs to agree that a woman, and
not her government, should make decisions about her own body. 
(Applause.)  
  
So it may not be your choice, it may not be the choice for your family,
but the government shouldn’t be in the business of making that decision
for her.  
  
And I — and I — I’m here to ask for your help, because it is about our
sisters and our daughters and our mothers and our aunties.  It is about
seeing that, also on the issue of maternal health — it’s something I’ve
been working on for years — the issue of Black maternal mortality is
real, which is that Black women are still, in this country, three times
more likely than other women to die from pregnancy-related issues.  A
lot of it which has to do with an ilabi- — inability to have access to
the kind of care she needs.   
  
And so, when we think about how Black women are experiencing the
healthcare system in America, we know it’s an issue for all of us.  And
it’s something that we should weigh in to address.  
  
Not to mention — you know, my goddaughter is 17 right now, and she’s
applying to college.  And she knows she’s pledging AKA wherever she
goes.  (Laughter.)  With all due respect to everybody else.   
  
And — but she’s — she was — I was talking to her the other day, and she
was like, “Auntie, I’m not — I got to now look at which states I’m
looking at in terms of where I’m going to apply for college.”  That’s
real.  Right?  
  
So I would ask us to think — because I would like your help, in terms of
— on my — at my stage and my platform.  Let’s make sure that we’re not
leaving anyone out of this important conversation, because it is front
and center as a very real issue in our country.   
  
And I can’t emphasize it more than sharing with you my experience as
Vice President, which is: I’ve been traveling around the world.  I just
was just yesterday, or it was the day before, with the — President
Zelenskyy’s wife, Madam Zelenska.  I met him two days before the
invasion of his nation when I was in Munich giving an important talk
there about the integrity of what should be a global priority around
sovereignty and territorial integrity.   
  
But what I can tell you is this: I’ve probably talked to — I’ve had at
least 80 conversations in person or by phone with presidents, prime
ministers, and kings, some of whom I’ve hosted at the official residence
of the Vice President.   
  
We, as Americans, hold ourselves out to be a leader.  We walk into these
rooms, chin up, shoulders back, proud — openly proud of the fact that we
hail from a democracy, one of the greatest in the world — flawed though
it may be, imperfect though it may be.   
  
And people around the world watch us because we are a role model.  And
each of us knows what that’s like in our personal lives to be a role
model.  It means people watch everything you do to see if what you do is
consistent with what you say.  
  
And they’re right now seeing that the United States Supreme Court — the
court of Thurgood — took a constitutional right, that had been
recognized, from the people of America, the women of America.  
  
So when we’re looking at an issue like this, when we’re looking at an
issue like voting rights and what is happening in our country, let’s
also understand it’s not only about an attack on the rights that we have
been leaders on, but it is an attack on our democracy.  And in that way,
it also extends to an attack on our standing around the world when we
walk into these various rooms talking about the need for protecting
human rights and standing up for democratic principles or rule of
law.   
  
So we got a lot of work to do.  And this fraternity has always been
front and center on all of these issues.  And so, again, I’m here to say
thank you, thank you, thank you.  Enjoy the Conclave.   
  
And thank you, Dr. Marion, for inviting me to come by and speak with you
for a minute.  Thank you all.  (Applause.)  
  
                                      END  
