---
date: '2022-07-14'
modified_time: 2022-07-14 13:08:28-04:00
published_time: 2022-07-14 13:08:27-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/07/14/remarks-by-president-biden-at-israeli-presidential-medal-of-honor-reception/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at Israeli Presidential Medal of Honor\_Reception"
---
 
President’s Residence Garden  
Jerusalem, Israel

6:08 P.M. IDT 

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  President Herzog, it’s wonderful to be with you again
and an honor to be with so many familiar faces out in this garden.

You know, if anyone should understand my inclination to enthusiasm, you
should be.  With a — with a grandfather who thought Sinn Féin was the
future of Ireland, you should understand that.  (Laughter.)

You all think I’m kidding; I’m not.

PRESIDENT HERZOG:  A great day for the Irish.  (Laughter.)

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  I’ve known many of you for a long time.  And all of
you, you know that my love for Israel is deep rooted.  I was raised, as
we say and you say, by a righteous Christian — my dad. 

And I’ve had the honor — it’s hard to say these words — for over 50
years — it can’t be that long — but for over 50 years in the federal
government to helping build the relationship.  Fifty years ago, we never
had this audience before.  We would not have this audience out here.  We
have so many people represented, representing so many different nations
and faiths as well.  And it’s important.

But, you know, seeing Israel thrive, seeing the wildest dreams of
Israel’s founding fathers and mothers grow into a reality that Israel
children enjoy today, to me is close to miraculous.  You’re always —
there’s a — we use, in the Catholic Church, a hymn that’s based on one
of the Psalms.  And it says, “May He raise you up on eagle’s wings and
bear you on the breath of dawn.  Until we meet again, may God hold you
in the palm of his hand.”

Well, every time I’ve come over these years, thank God, God seems to be
holding us in the palm of his hand, because we get stronger, not
weaker.  And to me, it’s pretty miraculous.

The Torah tells a story of the prophet who described the ancient Israeli
— Israe- — Israelis as the people that “dwell alone” — in the Torah
portion that will be read in services across the United States this
week. 

You know, I know, President Herzog, that your uncle also wrote a book
with that title. 

PRESIDENT HERZOG:  Mm-hmm.

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  But as I look out on these proud, strong Israelis in
the audience, at the nation that made the desert bloom and built the
Iron Dome, I see people who are growing more secure, more integrated,
more confident, and more — have greater relations with their neighbors;
a nation that has forged peace before and can do it again; and a nation
that will never dwell alone.  Because as long as we’re the United
States, you will never, ever be alone.  (Applause.) 

And as you know, there’s still so much more work to be done.  That’s why
America’s commitment to Israel’s security remains ironclad.  Today and
in the future, that commitment is not about me or any other American
president.  It springs from the deep affinity and enduring connection
between our peoples.  And it is our responsibility as leaders to nurture
that bond, to ensure that it grows stronger, deeper, and broader as we
navigate the challenges ahead — and they will continue to be profound
and they will change.

And as a leader, I can say without hesitation that being known as a
friend of Israel and receiving this award today is among the greatest
honors of my career.  And I mean that from the bottom of my heart.
(Applause.)  In fact —  
  
And thank you, Mr. President.  Since I know that you and I share a
connection, as I said, to Ireland, I hope you forgive me for ending by
quoting an Irish poet, Seamus Heaney.  And he wrote — in “The Cure at
Troy,” he said: “History says, Don’t hope on this side of the grave. 
But then, once in a lifetime, that longed-for tidal wave of justice
rises up, and hope and history rhyme.”  
  
I truly believe that we’re at one of those moments, if we get lucky and
work hard, where we can make hope and history rhyme.  
  
Israel and the United States are both places built on hope, grit, and
determination.  And I believe, together, we will stay always true to our
founding values and that we can help make hope and history rhyme once
more.  But this time — this time, in one of the most dysfunctional, in
the past, regions of the world where you, again, will be fully
integrated and be one of the leaders.  
  
So, Mr. President, it’s an incredible honor.  And, as some of you heard
me say, if my mother were here, she’d say, “Joey, hush up and let the
man get on with his job.”  (Laughter.)  
  
So, thank you, thank you, thank you.  (Applause.)  
  
PRESIDENT HERZOG:  Thank you, Mr. President.  So, Mr. President —  
  
MODERATOR:  (Speaks Hebrew.)  
  
President of the State of Israel, Isaac Herzog, will bestow the
Presidential Medal of Honor upon the President of the United States of
America, Joe Biden.  
  
PRESIDENT HERZOG:  So, the Honorable President Joseph R. Biden, Jr., in
recognition of the strong support for Israel you have consistently
demonstrated, and the depth of the friendship our nations share, I wish
to present you with the highest honor bestowed by an Israeli President,
the Presidential Medal of Honor.  This tradition was instituted by the
late president and your good friend, Shimon Peres.  
  
The accompanying certificate reads, and I begin with quoting the Bible: 
(Speaks Hebrew.)  “With Him are wisdom and strength.  He has counsel and
understanding.”

The Presidential Medal of Honor is hereby awarded to the Honorable
President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. of the United States of America for his
true friendship with the State of Israel, the people of Israel, and the
Jewish people; his uncompromising, decades-long commitment to Israel’s
security; his contributions to deepening, strengthening, and enhancing
the strong and unwavering alliance between Israel and the United States
of America; and his struggle against anti-Israeli and antisemitic hatred
around the world.”  
  
(The Medal of Honor is presented.)  (Applause.)  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  What a great honor.  Thank you very, very much.  
  
PRESIDENT HERZOG:  A pleasure.  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Thank you.

 6:14 P.M. IDT
