---
date: '2022-07-28'
published_time: 2022-07-28 18:50:23-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/07/28/remarks-by-president-biden-in-roundtable-with-ceos-on-the-economy/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden in Roundtable with CEOS on the\_Economy"
---
 
South Court Auditorium  
Eisenhower Executive Office Building

2:38 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT:  Hello, folks.  Can they hear me up on the stage there?

Well, let me begin by saying I apologize for being a little late. 
There’s a vote going on right now that I’ve a mild interest in. 
(Laughs.)  And I apologize for keeping you waiting.

First of all, I want to thank the CEOs from some of America’s leading
companies, from technology to financial services, to travel and retail. 
And we’re hear — I’m going to — we’ll hear directly about the outlook
for their businesses in the economy, from their perspective, and how we
transition from a historic economic recovery to a stable, steady growth
and lower inflation, without letting go of all the historic gains we’ve
made over the last 18 months.

But before we get started, I want to say two things about the GDP report
we received this morning. 

First, it’s important to start with what we know before this morning’s
report.  Our job market remains historically strong.  Our economy
created more than 9 million jobs since I came to office — in no small
part because of the people on this stage.  Our economy created more than
1 million jobs in the second quarter, the same period as today’s GDP
report covers.  And our unemployment rate is 3.6 percent, near a record
historic low.

Secondly, households and businesses — the engines of our economy —
continue to move forward.  Just this past week, SK Group from Korea was
here at the White House to announce $22 billion in new investment in
semiconductors, advanced batteries, and electric vehicle chargers, and
medical devices.  That’s on top of the $200 billion in clean energy
investments in America, from other businesses, since we took office. 
All powering the strongest rebound in American manufacturing in three
decades.

Now, there’s no doubt we expect growth to be slower than last year, and
— for the rapid clip we had.  But that’s consistent with a transition to
a stable, steady growth and lower inflation.  There are going to be a
lot of chatter today on Wall Street and among pundits about whether we
are in a recession.

But if you look at our job market — consumer spending, business
investment — we see signs of economic progress in the second quarter as
well.  And yesterday’s — Fed Chairman — the Fed Chairman Powell said —
made it clear that he doesn’t think the U.S. is currently in a
recession.  He said, quote, “There are too many areas” of economic —
where “the economy \[is\] performing too well.”  He said “too” well —
T-O-O.  Too well. 

He pointed to the labor market as an example.  The best thing we can do
right now is put our economy in a better position to make the transition
to stable, steady growth for Congress to — and is — steady, stable
growth is for Congress to act; that’s the best thing we can do.  They’re
voting right now, as I said.   

I applaud bi- — the bipartisan effort to get the CHIPS Act to my desk to
sign into law, which would advance our nation’s competitiveness and
technological edge by boosting our domestic semiconductor production and
manufacturing.

Another Congress should do, with — another thing that Congress should do
is to pass the Inflation Reduction Act to lower prescription drug costs
— which would reduce the deficit, I might add — and help ease
inflationary pressures and ensure that 13 million Americans can continue
to save an average of $800 per year in their healthcare premiums.   

Both of these bills are going to help the economy continue to grow,
bring down inflation, and make sure we aren’t giving up on all the
significant progress we’ve made in the last year.

I’m going to stop there and begin the meeting.   

But thanks to the CEOs for joining me.  And let me start with you,
Brian.  And thanks for taking all my phone calls, pal.  (Laughs.)  The
Bank of America. 

I want to ask you a question: Your bank serves many Americans across the
country.  What are you seeing right now in terms of financial health of
your consumers?  What’s the bank records tell you about the financial
health?

MR. MOYNIHAN:  Well, thank you, Mr. President.  It’s good to see you
recovering.

THE PRESIDENT:  (Laughs.)  Thanks.

MR. MOYNIHAN:  But at Bank of America, we have, you know, 60 million
consumers and 35 million Core Checking accounts for Americans. 

And so a couple of key points:

Number one, they’re spending more money.  Through the first 25 days of
July 2022, they have spent 10 percent more than they spent in July of
2021, the first 25 days.  And that’s consistent with what we saw in the
whole second quarter in earlier this year.

The second key point I’d say, Mr. President, is their balances are much
higher than they were in the pandemic.

And so, if you look at people of, sort of, $100,000-income families in
our client base, you’ll see that their balances go from three to five to
seven times more than they were in the pandemic. 

And, by the way, they have grown in the month of July versus June so
far, which is good news.  So they have some money in their accounts
still to help them through as the economy resets and settles in.  
  
The third thing is on their borrowing.  Our credit statistics are better
than they’ve ever been — much better than ‘19, which was a pretty good
credit year for banks.  So delinquencies are low; they haven’t gone up
in the month of July.  There’s lots of credit availability for our
customers in their ability to borrow on home equity lines or their
credit cards.  
  
Obviously, the most rent- — rate-sensitive parts of the economy due to
what the Fed is trying to achieve in slowing down the economy and
getting on more sound footing: Mortgages and car loans and things like
that have slowed down, but that’s an intended outcome.  
  
And so even in the accounts, you can also see that they’re receiving
paychecks, because we can see that, you know, recurring payment, so
that’s good.   
  
So the consumer is on good spending, as the balance is — is borrowing.
 And then the question is what they’re spending on, and — travel and
experiences versus goods.  They bought everything they could — they
bought a lot of stuff when they were cooped up at home; they’re now out
traveling and experiencing the world due to vaccines and — and the
condition of the COVID pandemic.  
  
But unfortunately, as you noted earlier in your comments, they’ve had to
spend more on gas.  And — but the good news is: If you look at June
versus July, the year-over-year growth has gone from a 40-plus percent
growth rate in spending on gas to 30 percent.  So it’s starting to come
down as you’ve seen the price of oil stabilize.  
  
Then the last thing I’d add is just: What’s on their mind when we talk
to them?  The same things you read about in the paper.  They’re worried
about inflation, because prices go up.  They’re worried about rent
increases, because half the consumers in America don’t have a mortgage,
so they’re renting or paying on a monthly basis.  And they’re worried
about — you know, frankly, a lot of our consumers are saving, putting
money in the market and when the market is down.  The good news is it
seems that we stabilized on those matters, and we’ll go forward.  
  
So, right now, they’re doing what we want them to do, which is being
employed.  Some of the stresses in the system — there’s no discounting
that, and we’re trying to help all those customers through this stress. 
But that stress has been mitigated by the work that your administration,
prior administrations did to help people through the pandemic and also
just the strong employment that you spoke about.

  
THE PRESIDENT:  Well, Brian, thanks a lot.  I really do appreciate your
— and thanks for always being available for your input.  I appreciate it
a great deal.  
  
And now I have a question for the CEO of Marriott, who is very
disappointed to hear they’re investing in travel.  (Laughter.)  It’s of
great concern to Tony.  
  
It’s — Tony — (laughs) — the travel and hospitality industry is — is
experiencing and did experience tremendous hardship during the
pandemic.  But the recovery now is experiencing — is a very different
experience.  It’s — things look really up for your industry right now.  
  
And what would — how would you describe the industry today?  And how do
you see the path of demand through the end of the year?  
  
I know that’s — you can’t know — nothing is guaranteed, but what’s your
sense?  
  
MR. CAPUANO:  Well, thank you, Mr. President, for the invitation today. 
I think what we’ve learned over the last couple quarters is really the
resilience of travel.  And when we look at our forward-booking data, we
see real evidence of that resilience.  
  
And what’s interesting — we think about our business through three
demand segments: leisure, business travel, and group.  The recovery has
clearly been led by leisure.  And, in fact, last year, leisure demand
got back to where we were pre-pandemic.  
  
But what’s encouraging is we’re seeing real recovery in the other two
segments.  Business transience has been a slower recover — recovery, but
as we see more and more folks returning to the office, we see continued
improvement.  And maybe the biggest surprise has been the pace at which
group demand has come back.  And we —  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Group demand?  
  
MR. CAPUANO:  Group, correct.  And we fully expected social group to
recover quickly with all of the canceled weddings and bar mitzvahs and
family reunions.  But now we’re seeing strong and consistent recovery in
business group travel as well.  So, quite encouraging.  
  
We get lots of questions about what’s driving this recovery in the face
of rising interest rates, high inflation environment, fuel prices and
the like, but I think there’s a series of factors.  
  
You and Brian both touched on one, which is the elevated savings rates
we see across the country.  There continues to be deep pent-up demand as
a result of the pandemic.  I think there’s a bit of a psychographic
shift away from consumption of hard goods towards investment and
experiences, which is helping our business a great deal. 

And then when we look on a global basis, the continued opening of
borders, the easing of restrictions that restricted travel is having a
massive impact on our global business. 

And maybe I’ll just close by thanking your administration and, in
particular, Secretary Raimondo for your work to eliminate the inbound
international testing requirement.  We think that’s going to be very
impactful in the travel and tourism sector.  And, in fact, the U.S.
Travel Association just came out and said they expect the direct impact
of that change to be an incremental, more than 5 million visitors to the
U.S. in the balance of this year, spending more than $9 billion.

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, that — I mean, that sounds pretty encouraging
overall, not just for this summer, but looking forward.

One of the things I want to ask you about is that the — obviously, the
pandemic had a profound negative impact.  But right now, as I look out
there — and I’ve traveled around the world a lot of late, going to
various conferences — there — there — there seems to be a willingness or
an inclination for business to travel more. 

To — instead of everybody sitting and Zooming everything, it seems to
me, in-person movement of personnel and businesses around the country —
and I see it more around the world, quite frankly — seems to be on the
up.  Is that accurate, or is that just a perception?

MR. CAPUANO:  It is, Mr. President.  And, in fact, we see two principal
drivers.  I think, number one, businesses that are customer-facing —
consulting firms, law firms, accounting firms — they will tell you that
the best way for them to optimize their business is to be in person,
embedded in their customers’ offices every day. 

THE PRESIDENT:  Yeah. 

MR. CAPUANO:  And I think the last few years have reminded us of the
power of in-person interaction. 

The other thing we see is rapidly growing demand for training.  Many
employers across this country rely heavily on the strength of their
corporate culture.  And as they’re hiring thousands of new employees,
it’s really hard to immerse those employees in a culture via Teams or
Zoom.  And so, the demand we see rising for in-person training has been
quite significant. 

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, I don’t want to get off on this.  Corning would
know something about this.  But there’s so many new jobs on the horizon
in the tech-related field that the need to train personnel to be able to
handle these jobs is totally within our capacity, but it’s needed.  It’s
not like it’s on-the-job training for a lot of these things. 

And so, one of the things we’re looking at — our economic team,
Secretary — is how we engage everything from community colleges to other
entities to train people for the need that exists in that community — in
that community. 

And so it’s totally consistent with what you’re saying, because there
are going to be — and we’re talking about potentially a lot of jobs.  I
mean, we’re talking about thousands of jobs. 

And — but, again, a lot of it requires some, you know, training; it’s
not all on-the-job training. 

Well, I’m — thank you very much for talking to me about that, Tony.  And
—

MR. CAPUANO:  Thank you.

THE PRESIDENT:  And now I — what I’d like to do is —

there’s an outfit called Corning.  Right, Wendell?  (Laughs.)  And
you’re the CEO of a great company. 

And, look, you know, we’ve seen an inflection point in U.S.
manufacturing over the last — the last year.  And by that I mean — you
know, I can recall in the last administra- — I’m not criticizing the
last administration — the previous four years — and even at the end of
our administration, Obama-Biden, the question was, “Are we still going
to be the manufacturing hub of the world?  Are we still — you know, are
we — in manufacturing, where are we going to sit?  We’re going to do all
these other things, but what about manufacturing?”

And — and so you’ve seen, in that inflection point, manufacturing in the
U.S.  Can you describe for me what you’re seeing at Corning?  What’s
your outlook on the manufacturing sector?  Talk to me a little bit about
that, if you could.

MR. WEEKS:  Sure, Mr. President.  First of all, you’re right — the last
18 months has been tremendous growth for U.S. manufacturing.  And we’ve
seen that in our results.

And that continues, but there’s some subtle things going on as well.  We
just did our quarter two earnings, so the numbers are fresh in my mind. 

We’re still having good, strong year-over-year growth.  Sales up about 7
percent, earnings up about 8 percent.  And so, the growth rate continues
at a little bit lower rate than it’s been the last 18 months though. 

But that good topline: There’s a lot going on underneath the surface. 
So what’s — what’s driving us is very strong demand for optical
communications — think optical fiber for our technologies like 5G,
broadband access, cloud computing.  Very strong demand for fiber optics
and then also very strong demand for our solar materials going into
renewable energy.  So very strong on the infrastructure side. 

But if we look at the consumer side, much like Brian commented on, we’re
seeing a slowdown in consumer.  So let me give you a few examples: Our —
we have customers who make liquid crystal displays, so think about
televisions, notebooks.

At this point in time, our customers are running their capacity at the
lowest levels they have since the financial crisis.  So, panel maker
utilization is down tremendously.  Now, a big part of that is that build
of inventory in anticipation of demand, but also the demand signal is
not strong from the retail side for that good.  So that’s very low
levels.

Think smartphones.  Smartphones in quarter two were down about 11
percent year over year.  So, pretty strongly.

Auto been depressed for a long time, mostly on supply chain basis. 
Demand has been there.  But there’s interesting signals in global
demand.  In April, there were zero cars sold in Shanghai.

THE PRESIDENT:  Zero?

MR. WEEKS:  Zero.  COVID lockdowns.  But zero is a really low number,
right?

THE PRESIDENT:  No, I — I — yeah.

MR. WEEKS:  Corona. 

THE PRESIDENT:  Over a lockdown or not. 

MR. WEEKS:  In Europe, in June, we had the lowest number of new car
registrations that we’ve seen since 1996.  So, we’re a global player. 
So it’s the whole global economy, so it’s harder for us to, you know,
pick on what is in the U.S., Europe, Asia. 

But if we were to look at it right now in the trends we see, I’d say the
consumer electronics side looks slow.

Automotive, not really strong.  Can’t quite sort between supply chain
issues or demand. 

And as we look forward, we’d say the overall trends — that’s what we’re
counting on continuing: super strong demand in optical communications
and solar.  And as we now work with Secretary Raimondo on connecting the
unconnected, next year that will continue and strong, and we’ll expand
to meet that.

Solar demand we see going forward unabated, and we’ll also expand in
that. 

But consumer seems soft to us.

THE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.  Well, you know, one of the things that — my
father was in the automobile business his whole life.  Ran a major
dealership — a General Motors dealership.

And, you know, growing up as a kid, you knew whether cars were selling
or not — (laughs) — based on tuition or whatever the heck —

But all kidding aside, I was — I knew, but I never had tried to
visualize, how critical the high-quality computer chips were for an
automobile.  And a significant part of the — of the slowdown that
occurred when it hit is inflation — the cost of automobiles, because
people are not buying them, also because they cost so damn and there’s
so few of them.  They’re not manufacturing nearly what they were able to
manufacture in the past because of the fact of these lack of computer
chips. 

But it’s not just automobiles; it’s anything — you know, phones, cell
phones — a whole range.  Whereas, I found it interesting you talking
about how, you know, on the — on the fiberoptic piece, that is moving. 
But how much of that do you think is related to the fact that we put in
a — an infrastructure bill that provided billions of dollars for — for
connecting the Internet, for having the ability to access the Internet
because we’re making it available, quite frankly, with all the money
we’re spending to make it available to every home in America, every
neighborhood?

I mean, I’m not sure I’m asking the question properly.  I think you know
what I’m trying to get at. 

MR. WEEKS:  Yes.

THE PRESIDENT:  So, talk to me about the difference: demand relating to
where we fund it — and we’re talking the fiberoptics needed to deal with
everything from solar to broadband in communities that don’t have it
now. 

I mean, one of the things I found was that — and the four of us have
talked about this a lot — five of us have talked about this — is, you
know, in the middle of the pandemic, seeing — going by a McDonald’s and
seeing a bunch of families sitting out there in the parking lot not
eating a hamburger but connecting to the Internet because they had no
access to Internet so their kid could get — get access to the schooling
they needed.

So, talk to me a little bit about how much of this is driven by the
inability to afford it or the lack of desire to get it, and how much is
driven by, when the government is invested in it, it makes a
difference.  I’m not sure I’m asking the question.  You know what I’m
talking about.

MR. WEEKS:  I totally understand your question, Mr.  President.  It’s a
very good question. 

So the direct impact of the BEAD program, or the government effort to
connect the unconnected, in this year, direct impact is very low.  That
really starts to come in to its power next year. 

But there’s also an indirect impact, which is the commitment of the
government and of the administration to making sure we build the
infrastructure that’s required.  It really does make a difference in the
behavior of all the players. 

THE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.

MR. WEEKS:  So what we’re seeing, though, is just strong demand from our
carrier customers, because they want to be the ones that connect folks. 
And they’re building out 5G and new tech, which needs a lot more
fiberoptics than 4G.  And then cloud computing also needs a lot more
fiber. 

So those are the big secular trends.  But, I mean, we shouldn’t
underestimate the power of positive leadership on things like
infrastructure, solar also.

You know, you’re in the midst of passing a significant bill as we speak,
hopefully.  Right? 

But if that goes through, you can expect that to trigger not just the
direct government piece, but by providing that leadership, others will
come in with much more serious money — right? — to be able to magnify
it. 

So it has — it’s hard to answer your question.  It’s a great question,
but it’s a very subtle effect. 

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, I think you’ve answered it, because one of the
things the Secretary has — has talked about is that when the government
is in on something that everyone acknowledges is useful and needed,
like, you know, the fiberoptic changes, then everybody goes, ”Well,
maybe…” —

(White House aide hands the President a note.)

You’re trying to tell me something, huh? 

Oh, so far, we’ve got 217 “yes” votes for the CHIPS bill, and the House
has passed it.  (Applause.) 

Sorry for the interruption. 

But, Madam Secretary, talk a little bit about what private-sector
attitudes change, if they do, if the United States — if the government
is taking a risk and a chance on betting on by putting their dollars
where their — their money where their mouth is, in terms of what needs
to be done.

SECRETARY RAIMONDO:  Yeah.  First of all, congratulations.  That is
huge.  I don’t want to —

THE PRESIDENT:  We’ve been trying a long time.  (Laughter.)

SECRETARY RAIMONDO:  Yeah, we have been.  And you — the President has
been amazing in his leadership on this.  So thank you.  Thank you.

This is —

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, I’m a lawyer.  I don’t know anything about
anything. 

SECRETARY RAIMONDO:  (Laughs.)  You know how to lead.  And that makes a
difference. 

This is a perfect example: semiconductors.  I mean, the private sector
has been waiting for a signal, and they want predictability.  There’s
nothing that unlocks private capital like predictability.  So when the —
right?  I mean, when the government steps up and says, “We’re going to
invest in infrastructure, solar, chips,” it provides predictability and
investments.  And I — it’ll — it will encourage, I think, a lot of
private-sector capital to follow along.

Not to mention the fact that what we’re investing in — semiconductors,
broadband, roads, bridges, solar — we need this.  You know?  We need
this to compete, as we talk about.  So I think it’s very significant.

THE PRESIDENT:  I’m taking too much time asking you all these questions,
but you’re — I have great interest in your — can I ask, Janet —
Secretary Yellen — how would you characterize now — and you’ve been
very, very straightforward in your views on everything — how would you
characterize the health of the economy now?

SECRETARY YELLEN:  Well, thank you, Mr. President.  I think I would say
let’s — let’s first look back at the trajectory of the economy over the
last 18 months.  During that period, the United States has experienced
an historic economic recovery.  There were 9 million jobs created — over
9 million in the last year.  And we saw the fastest single-year decline
in unemployment in our historic record. 

And I think, at the core, this rebound has really reflected the
administration’s policies, especially the Rescue Plan and the timely
fiscal support it provided, along with vaccination efforts that allowed
our businesses to reopen and let Americans get back to work. 

Right now, there are an enormous set of global headwinds, including a
war in Europe and successive variants of the pandemic, but our economy
remains resilient. 

So, we’re clear-eyed about the challenges we face now and in the future,
which have especially been driven by global factors like Russia’s
illegal war in Ukraine, the lingering effects of the pandemic with
lockdowns in places like China.  Growth is slowing around the world. 
Inflation remains unacceptably high, and, of course, it’s your
overriding objective, our administration’s top priority to bring it
down. 

As you said, Mr. President, we’re at a transitional moment in our
economy.  We’re focusing on moving from a period of rapid recovery that
we enjoyed over the last 18 months to now achieving steady, sustainable
growth, but without sacrificing the gains we’ve made. 

And, you know, economists should look holistically, I think, at data
when we evaluate the state of the economy.  And we can see, for example,
from today’s GDP report, that growth and private demand has slowed. 
That does indicate an economy that is transitioning to more steady and
sustainable growth.  But job creation is continuing.  Household finances
— as we’ve discussed and Brian discussed, household finances remain
robust.  Consumers are spending

And I believe that in the months to come, with skill and luck, it will
be possible to maintain that strength, particularly the strength we
enjoy in the labor market, while easing the tightness that has been
driving inflation.

  
THE PRESIDENT:  Well, you know, there’s an old expression.  A baseball
coach of the Dodgers, years ago — Leo Durocher — said, “I’d rather have
Lady Luck sitting on my bench than skill.”  My grandfather, who was an
All-American football player at Santa Clara in the turn of the century,
he’d say “No, I’d rather have luck and skill on the bench.” 
(Laughter.)  
  
So we’re looking for both.  
  
Let me just say, before I yield to you, Brian, and we can move on to the
rest of the folks here: It’s interesting and totally understandable why
the vast majority of the American people have no idea what the recovery
plan did, what the government did at all.  
  
I mean, the reason why we still had teachers in school, kids going to
school, the reason why we had cops on the beat, reason why you had
essential workers — states couldn’t afford it, cities couldn’t afford
it, towns couldn’t <s>accord</s> \[afford\] it, counties couldn’t afford
it.  So we came up with this Rescue Plan and gave them billions of
dollars to keep the economy in their cities and towns and states
moving.  
  
And one of the things when I — and I fully understand it.  Like I said,
I was raised in one of those households where when the price of a gallon
of gasoline went up, it was a topic of discussion around the kitchen
table.  And we weren’t poor, we were just typical middle-class family in
a three-bedroom house with four kids and a grandpop.  
  
But all kidding aside, it was — we lived fine, but it was — it
mattered.  It mattered whether the price of gasoline went up.  
  
One of the things that I find is — I look at and I take it very
seriously the confidence level of the American people in the economy. 
And they’re so down and they’re looking — there’s reason to be down, but
I started thinking about it.  And, Brian, you and I talked about it just
a little bit.   
  
You know, the first year, we were able to, with the — with the Rescue
Plan, we were able to send them a check for eight grand.  I mean, a
check.  One — and beyond that, by the way; there was more than that.  
  
But when you’re mak- — if you’re making 120 grand and you get a check
for 8 grand, that’s a lot of money.  And so it helped save a lot of
people, in terms of getting thrown out of their homes and rental housing
and a whole range of things.  
  
But I started thinking about it, just as, you know, somebody who’s
raised as a middle-class kid.  One year, even though you didn’t have the
job you have now, even though you didn’t get a raise that year, the
difference between having a job, having a 5 percent raise or whatever —
3,5,7, whatever it happens to be — in the face of inflation, the price
at the pump — although that’s down every day so far.  But, you know,
it’s like, “Whoa, I feel worse off.”  But then again, I didn’t get a
check for eight grand from the government.  They just — among other
things.  Does that make any sense to anybody, or is it just me?

  
SECRETARY YELLEN:  Well, it really makes a huge difference, Mr.
President, because, as you said, it kept food on the table, helped
people take care of their kids, especially at a time when many were out
of school and it was hard to work.  And — and the spending it generated
put people back to work. 

And, you know, as I mentioned, we’ve seen the long — you know, the
biggest stretch of job creation that got America back to work.  And we
need to bring down inflation, but we need to preserve the success that
that plan achieved in the labor market.

  
THE PRESIDENT:  I know you’re all busy as the devil, especially the
folks who haven’t had a chance to speak yet.  I’m sorry I have so many
questions, but I have great respect for your collective judgment here.  
  
Brian, I’m yielding to you.  I’m going to shush up.

(Press departs.)

  
3:10 P.M. EDT
