---
date: '2022-07-20'
published_time: 2022-07-20 18:23:21-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/07/20/remarks-by-president-biden-on-actions-to-tackle-the-climate-crisis/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on Actions to Tackle the Climate\_Crisis"
---
 
Brayton Point Power Station  
Somerset, Massachusetts

2:43 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you.  And thank
you for your patience.  You’ve been sitting out here.  Appreciate —
please, have a seat, if you have one.

Well, hello, Massachusetts.  (Applause.)  It’s an honor to be with your
outstanding members of Congress today: Senator Ed Markey.  Ed?  Where’s
— there you go.  (Applause.)  Senator Elizabeth Warren.  (Applause.) 
Congressman Auchincloss — -oss.  Where is she?  There you go, Jake. 
Bill Keating — Congressman.  (Applause.) 

And your great former members and one of my dearest friends, John Kerry,
who’s doing a great job leading our international — (applause) — Special
Presidential Envoy on Climate, traveling the world and talking with an
awful lot of people he’s talking into moving more than they’ve been
doing. 

And another great Massachusetts nata- — native, Gina McCarthy.  Gina? 
(Applause.)  There she is.  My National Climate Advisor is leading our
climate efforts here at home.

It’s an honor to be joined by your neighbor by — your neighbor from
Rhode Island.  He’s not a bad guy at all.  (Laughter.)  I live in his
house.  Sheldon Whitehouse — a great champion — (applause) — a great
champion of the environment.  And he’d been banging away at it.

I come here today with a message: As President, I have a responsibility
to act with urgency and resolve when our nation faces clear and present
danger.  And that’s what climate change is about.  It is literally, not
figuratively, a clear and present danger.

The health of our citizens and our communities is literally at stake.

The U.N.’s leading international climate scientists called the latest
climate report nothing less than, quote, “code red for humanity.”  Let
me say it again: “Code red for humanity.”  It’s not a group of political
official — elected officials.  These are the scientists.

We see here in America, in red states and blue states, extreme weather
events costing $145 billion — $145 billion in damages just last year —
more powerful and destructive hurricanes and tornadoes. 

I’ve flown over the vast majority of them out west and down in
Louisiana, all across America.  It’s a — it’s amazing to see. 

Ravaging hundred-year-old droughts occurring every few years instead of
every hundred years.  Wildfires out west that have burned and destroyed
more than 5 million acres — everything in its path.  That is more land
than the entire state of New Jersey, from New York down to the tip of
Delaware.  It’s amazing.  Five million acres.

Our national security is at stake as well.  Extreme weather is already
damaging our military installations here in the States.  And our economy
is at risk.  So we have to act.

Extreme weather disrupts supply chains, causing delays and shortages for
consumers and businesses.

Climate change is literally an existential threat to our nation and to
the world. 

So my message today is this: Since Congress is not acting as it should —
and these guys here are, but we’re not getting many Republican votes —
this is an emergency.  An emergency.  And I will — I will look at it
that way.

I said last week and I’ll say it again loud and clear: As President,
I’ll use my executive powers to combat climate — the climate crisis in
the absence of congressional actions, notwithstanding their incredible
action.  (Applause.) 

In the coming days, my administration will announce the executive
actions we have developed to combat this emergency.  We need to act. 

But just take a look around: Right now, 100 million Americans are under
heat alert — 100 million Americans.  Ninety communities across America
set records for high temperatures just this year, including here in New
England as we speak.

And, by the way, records have been set in the Arctic and the Antarctic,
with temperatures that are just unbelievable, melting the permafrost.
 And it’s astounding the damage that’s being done.

And this crisis impacts every aspect of our everyday life.  That’s why
today I’m making the largest investment ever — $2.3 billion — to help
communities across the country build infrastructure that is designed to
withstand the full range of disasters we’ve been seeing up to today -–
extreme heat, drought, flooding, hurricanes, tornadoes.

Right now, there are millions of people suffering from extreme heat at
home.  So my team is also working with the states to deploy $385 million
right now.

For the first time, states will be able to use federal funds to pay for
air conditioners in homes, set up community cooling centers in schools
where people can get through these extreme heat crises.  And I mean
people — and crises that are 100 to 117 degrees.

An Infrastructure Law that your members of Congress have delivered
includes $3.1 billion to weatherize homes and make them more energy
efficient, which will lower energy cost while keeping America cool in
the summer and warm in the winter, and not using too much energy.

And my Department of Labor, led by a guy named *Marty Walsh —* (said in
Boston accent) — he talks funny, but he’s a hell of a guy.  (Applause.) 
But all kidding aside, Marty was a great mayor, and I know — I know he
knows how to get a job done. 

And he’s doing two things for me:

First of all, as Secretary of Labor, he’s developing the first-ever
workplace standards for extreme heat, saying, under these cond- — under
these conditions, if it hits this pr- — you cannot do the following —
you cannot ask people to do a certain thing.

Second, he’s sending folks out from the Labor Department to make sure we
hold workplaces and — to those standards that are being set.  They’ve
already completed over 500 heat-related inspections of workplaces across
43 states.  At the end of the day, it’s going to save lives.

Now, let me tell you why we’re here at Brayton Point.  Five years ago,
this towering power plant that once stood with cooling towers 500 feet
high closed down.  The coal plant at Brayton Point was the largest of
its kind in New England — 1,500 megawatts of power, enough to power one
in five Massachusetts homes and businesses.

For over 50 years, this plant supported this region’s economy through
their electrici- — the electricity they supplied, the good jobs they
provided, and the local taxes they paid.

But the plant, like many others around the country, had another legacy:
one of toxins, smog, greenhouse gas emissions, the kind of pollution
that contributed to the climate emergency we now face today.

Gina McCarthy, a former regulator in Massachusetts, was telling me on
the way up how folks used to get a rag out and wipe the gunk off of
their car’s windshields in the morning just to be able to drive — not
very much unlike where I grew up in a place called Claymont, Delaware —
which has more oil refineries than Houston, Texas, had in its region —
just across the line in Pennsylvania.  And all the prevailing winds were
our way.  
  
I just lived up the road.  I just — in an apartment complex when we
moved to Delaware.  And just up the road was a little school I went to,
Holy Rosary grade school.  And because it was a four-lane highway that
was accessible, my mother drove us and — rather than us be able to
walk.  
  
And guess what?  The first frost, you knew what was happening.  You had
to put on your windshield wipers to get, literally, the oil slick off
the window.  That’s why I and so damn many other people I grew up
\[with\] have cancer and why can- — for the longest time, Delaware had
the highest cancer rate in the nation.

But that’s the past, and we’re going to get — we’re going to build a
different future with one — one with clean energy, good-paying jobs.

Just 15 years ago, America generated more than half its electricity from
coal — coal-fired plants.  Today, that’s down to 20 percent because
there’s a big transition happening.

Many of these fossil fuel plants are becoming sites for new clean energy
construction.  Others are switching to new, clean technologies.

Look at Brayton Point.  Today, Brayton is one of the frontiers — on the
frontier of clean energy in America.  On this site, they’ll manufacture
four hun- — 248 miles of high-tech, heavy-duty cables.  Those
specialized, subsea cables are necessary to tie offshore wind farms to
the existing grid.

Manufacturing these cables will mean good-paying jobs for 250 workers —
as many workers as the old plant — power plant had at its peak. 

And the port — (applause) — the port here, 34 feet deep, was used to
carry coal into the power plant.  Now we’re going to use that same port
to carry components of — for wind power into the sea.

The converter station here and the substation nearby are the assets that
move energy across the power lines.

They’ll now move clean electricity generated offshore by the wind —
(applause) — enough power to power hundreds of thousands of homes onto
the grid — putting old assets to work delivering clean energy.  This
didn’t happen by accident.  It happened because we believed and invested
in America’s innovation and ingenuity.

One of the companies investing in the factory here joined me at the
White House this month.  Vineyard Winds, whose CEO told me about the
ground-breaking project labor agreements they’ve negotiated, would
create good-paying union jobs.  (Applause.)

And I want to compliment Congressman Bill Keating for his work in this
area.

I’m also proud to point out that my administration approved the first
commercial project for offshore wind in America, which is being
constructed by Vineyard Winds.

Folks, elsewhere in the country, we are pr- — we are propelling
retrofits and ensuring that even where fossil fuel plant retires, they
still have a role in powering the future.

In Illinois, for example, the state has launched a broad effort to
invest in converting old power plants to solar farms, led by Governor
Pritzker.

In California, the IBEW members have helped turn a former oil plant into
the world’s largest battery storage facility — the world’s largest
facility.

In Wyoming, innovators are chosen to — a retiring plant as the next site
for the next-generation nuclear plant.

And my administr- — my administration is a partner in that progress,
driving federal resources and funding to the communities that have
powered this country for generations.  And that’s why they need to be
taken care of as well.

I want to thank Cecil Roberts, a friend and President of United Mine
Workers of America, and so many other labor leaders who worked with —
worked with on these initiatives.

Since I took office, we’ve invested more than $4 billion in federal
funding to the 25 hardest-hit coal communities in the country, from West
Virginia, to Kentucky, to Wyoming, to New Mexico.

Through the Infrastructure Law, we’re investing in clean hydrogen,
nuclear, and carbon capture with the largest grid investment in American
history.

We’ve secured $16 billion to clean up abandoned mines and wells,
protecting thousands of communities from toxins and waste, particularly
methane.  And we still — and we’re going to seal leaking methane
pollution — an incredibly power\[ful\] greenhouse gas that’s 40 times
more dangerous to the environment than carbon dioxide.  (Applause.)

And, folks, with American leadership back on climate, I was able to
bring more world leaders together than — we got 100 nations together to
agree that — at the major conference in Glasgow, England — I mean,
Scotland — to change the emissions policies we had.

We’ve made real progress, but there is an enormous task ahead.  We have
to keep retaining and recruiting building trades and union electricians
for jobs in wind, solar, hydrogen, nuclear, creating even more and
better jobs.

We have to revitalize communities, especially those fence-line
communities that are smothered by the legacy of pollution.

We have to outcompete China and in the world, and make these
technologies here in the United States — not have to import them.

Folks, when I think about climate change — and I’ve been saying this for
three years — I think jobs.  Climate change, I think jobs.  (Applause.)

Almost 100 wind turbines going up off the coasts of Massachusetts and
Rhode Island with ground broken and work underway.

Jobs manufacturing 2,500-ton steel foundations that anchor these
offshore wind farms to the sea’s floor.  Jobs manufacturing a Jones Act
vessel in Texas to service these offshore wind farms.

We’re going to make sure that the ocean is open for the clean energy of
our future, and everything we can do — give a green light to wind power
on the Atlantic coast, where my predecessor’s actions only created
confusion.

And today we begin the process to develop wind power in the Gulf of
Mexico as well for the first time.  A real opportunity to power millions
of additional homes from wind.

Let’s clear the way — let’s clear the way for clean energy and connect
these projects to the grid.

I’ve directed my administration to clear every federal hurdle and
streamline federal permitting that brings these clean energy projects
online right now and right away.  And some of you have already come up
and talked to me about that.  (Applause.)  

And while so many governors and mayors have been strong partners in this
fight to tackle climate change, we need all governors and mayors.  We
need public utility commissioners and state agency heads.  We need
electric utilities and developers to stand up and be part of the
solution.  Don’t be a road block.  (Applause.)

You all have a duty right now to our economy, to our competitiveness in
the world, to the young people in this nation, and to future generations
— and that sounds like hyperbole but it’s not; it’s real — to act boldly
on climate.

And so does Congress, which — notwithstanding the leadership of the men
and women that are here today — has failed in this duty.  Not a single
Republican in Congress stepped up to support my climate plan.  Not one. 

So, let me be clear: Climate change is an emergency. 

And in the coming weeks, I’m going to use the power I have as President
to turn these words into formal, official government actions through the
appropriate proclamations, executive orders, and regulatory power that a
President possesses.  (Applause.) 

And when it comes to fighting the climate change — climate change, I
will not take no for an answer.  I will do everything in my power to
clean our air and water, protect our people’s health, to win the clean
energy future. 

This, again, sounds like hyperbole, but our children and grandchildren
are counting on us.  Not a joke.  Not a joke.  

If we don’t keep it below 1.5 degrees Centigrade, we lose it all.  We
don’t get to turn it around.  And the world is counting on us.  And this
is the United States of America.  When we put our hearts and minds to
it, there’s not a single thing beyond our capacity — I mean it — when we
act together. 

And of all things we should be acting together on, it’s climate.  It’s
climate.

And, by the way, my dear mother — God rest her soul — used to say,
“Joey, out of everything bad, something good will come if you look hard
enough.”  Look what’s happening.  We’re going to be able to create as
many or more good-paying jobs.  We’re going to make environments where
people live safer.  We’re going to make the clean — the air safer.  I
really mean it.  We have an opportunity here. 

I’ll bet you when you see what’s happened here in this cable
construction here — manufacturing — and you go back and ask all the
people who grew up in this beautiful place what they’d rather have: Do
they want the plant back with everything it had, or what you’re going to
have?  I will be dumbfounded if you find anybody, other than for pure
sentimental reasons, saying, “I’d rather have the coal plant.” 

I’ll end by telling you another quick story.  When we moved from
Scranton — when coal died in Scranton, everything died in Scranton.  And
my dad wasn’t a coal miner.  My — my great — my great-grandfather was a
mining engineer.  But my dad was in sales, and there was no work.  So we
left to go down to Delaware, where I told you where those oil plants
were. 

But I remember driving home — when you take the trolley in Scranton,
going out North Washington and Adams Avenues.  Within 15 blocks — we
didn’t live in the neighborhood — among the most prestigious
neighborhood in the region, in the — in the town where the Scrantons and
other good, decent people lived, there was a pla- — you’d go by a wall
that — my recollection is it was somewhere between 15 and 18 feet tall. 
And it went for the — essentially, a city block. 

And you could see the coal piled up to the very top of the wall from
inside.  It was a coal-fired plant.  A coal-fired plant.  And all of
that — all of the negative impacts of breathing that coal, the dust were
effecting everybody.  But at the time, people didn’t know it and there
wasn’t any alternative.

Folks, we have no excuse now.  We know it.  There are answers for it. 
We can make things better in terms of jobs.  We can make things better
in terms of the environment.  We can make things better for families
overall.  So I’m looking forward to this movement. 

Thank you, thank you, thank you.  (Applause.)  May God bless you all. 
And may God protect our troops.  Thank you.  (Applause.)

3:02 P.M. EDT
