---
date: '2022-07-26'
modified_time: 2022-07-26 10:29:31-04:00
published_time: 2022-07-26 10:29:30-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/07/26/remarks-by-president-biden-in-meeting-with-ceos-and-labor-leaders-on-the-importance-of-passing-the-chips-act/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden in Meeting with CEOs and Labor Leaders on the\
  \ Importance of Passing the CHIPS\_Act"
---
 
South Court Auditorium  
Via Teleconference

3:01 P.M. EDT

MR. DEESE:  Hi, Mr. President

THE PRESIDENT:  How are you?

MR. DEESE:  Good, good.  I think we’ve got everybody here, so over to
you to kick us off here.

THE PRESIDENT:  Okay, here I go.

Thank you all for joining me today for this important and timely
discussion.  We’re here today to talk about the importance of passing
the CHIPS for America Act to strengthen our national and economic
security. 

Later today, the Senate is going to hold a key vote to advance this
critical legislation, God willing, and I’m glad we have an opportunity
to hear from the industry and labor leaders about this important topic. 

I’m going to turn this over to Brian now to get us started.  Brian?

MR. DEESE:  Great, thank you, Mr. President.  And we are joined here by
members of your economic and national security team, as well as business
and labor leaders from across the country.

We thought, sir, that we would try to divide this into two categories,
the first being the national security implications and the second being
the economic security and economic opportunity embedded in this
legislation.

But we wanted to really try to zero in on both the urgency of acting and
of Congress, as you say, acting without delay, hopefully today and in
the coming days, but also the opportunity and the opportunity for the
country and for our national security as well.

So, sir, with your permission, we will start on the national security
side and, kicking this off, go to Jim Taiclet, the CEO of Lockheed
Martin.  You’ve had the opportunity to visit their facility down in
Alabama earlier this year. 

And, Jim, I was hoping if you could just — for the President and all of
us, just give us your sense of the broader national security concern
here and also the ways in which semiconductors feed into the strength of
our national security industrial base across the country.

MR. TAICLET:  Thank you, Brian.  Good afternoon, Mr. President.

THE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon, Jim. 

MR. TAICLET:  We believe a robust, secure supply of microprocessors is
essential both to national security and to the health of the defense
industrial base in the aerospace industry as a whole.

Mr. President, when we visited the Javelin production operation down in
Alabama, as Brian mentioned, we were talking to the teams that actually
build the product, build the Javelins, and they mentioned that, as you
might recall, each of those Javelins requires over 250 microprocessors
for each and every one.

And if we look at a larger product, helicopters such as the CH-53K that
we’re building for your U.S. Marines today, there are over 2,000
microprocessors in that helicopter.

So when we go on to networking and adding in autonomy under, kind of, a
21st century national security architecture that we’re building,
microprocessors are going to get even more important.

So it’s critical to increase U.S. production and test capacity.  There’s
a couple other reasons it’s very important too.  One is trust.  We’ve
got to have confidence in the security of the hardware itself, that it
hasn’t been tampered with or degraded when we receive it to put it into
our aircraft, in missiles, satellite, et cetera.  Right?

THE PRESIDENT:  Brian had mentioned that, yeah.

MR. TAICLET:  Also, we want to have “Made in the USA” access to the
latest cutting-edge technologies to put into the systems that our
sailors, Marines, airmen, and soldiers are going to be using in our
defense.

And, you know, we’re all in the era, unfortunately, of renewed great
power competition as well.  In an era like that, we need to revise —
revitalize the U.S. semiconductor industry.  It’s imperative to maintain
an effective deterrent, we believe, for the future to keep our country
safe.

And today, our company and our suppliers, we’ve got adequate access,
largely, to the semiconductors that we need to produce what was being
done today, Mr. President.  But because much of the production is in
China and in Taiwan, access to be guaranteed for U.S. industry,
including in defense industry, is fragile.  You know, should China
decide to withhold its production or inhibit Taiwan from exporting its
chips or building them, we would have a serious economic and,
eventually, national security issue on our hands.

And so, given the long lead times for producing a fab and building the
factories, it is important and urgent to begin to rebuild U.S.
semiconductor chip manufacturing in the U.S.

THE PRESIDENT:  Jim, I’m glad you mentioned security — to be secure that
any part we’re putting in a weapons system or a helicopter, or anything
we have, that we are assured that no one has been able to tamper with
that; that it’s made in America and built in America, stockpiled in
America.  And I think it’s really important. 

And, by the way, I was really impressed with your workers down in
Alabama when they went through the plant.  I was there for several
hours, as you know.  And I think they really, really take this work
seriously.

And so how does passing this legislation now — how does this make a
difference and how — and how does it ensure our systems are going to
stay at the leading edge?  It’s one thing to say there’s uninterrupted
access — we make it here and build it here in America.  But tell me —
talk to me a little bit more about how this ensures the systems stay on
the leading edge.

MR. TAICLET:  Well, we’re moving forward really rapidly, Mr. President,
both in sort of physical world technologies like hypersonics, really
advanced space sensors, stealth aircraft like the F-35, et cetera.  But
we’re also inserting what we call 21st century digital technologies into
the system as well.  And those are things like 5G, AI, distributed cloud
computing.  We need the latest in, you know, sub-10 nanometer chips, and
we need them to be trustworthy to be able to introduce those kinds of
capabilities, you know, again, in service of our, you know, sailors,
airmen, Guardians, Marines, and aviators.

So we’ve got a lot of emphasis and a lot of importance on those latest
technology chips because they are the building blocks of those defense
systems of the future.

THE PRESIDENT:  Am I correct to assume that the more sophisticated
systems are going to be coming along, and the more that do — just
inevitable — the more the need for reliance on the availability of these
high-end computer chips are available to us, made in America, here in
America — I mean, is there a correlation there?

MR. TAICLET:  There’s a total correlation, Mr. President.  You can’t
conduct, you know, 5G-distributed cloud-computing operations with, you
know, legacy technology chips.  And we’re going to have to stay on the
cutting edge of those building blocks, as I mentioned earlier, to be
able to deliver that for the country. 

So it’s really important that we don’t cede our leadership in
semiconductor technology and, ultimately, manufacturing and test outside
the U.S. — because, again, just like the Russians did with natural gas
recently in Europe, if China can constrain its own production and
distribution of chips to us or they pressure or otherwise inhibit Taiwan
from doing so, you have a global mar- — global market that’s going to be
upset.  It’ll go beyond the defense industry. 

But from a national, you know, security perspective, you know, I think
this is a really high priority.

THE PRESIDENT:  Jim, thank you very much.  And again, you should be
proud of the folks you have down in your factory.  I was really
impressed with them.  They seemed to really — not just they’re doing
their job, but they seem to be on a mission.  I mean, I’m — I’m
serious.  It was — it was great to see.  It was great to see. 

Anyway, thank you.

MR. TAICLET:  It meant so much for all of them to see you,
Mr. President, and show your support.  So, thanks.

MR. DEESE:  So, Mr. President, I — I wanted to —

THE PRESIDENT:  Brian, it’s all yours.

MR. DEESE:  Yeah.  I wanted to ask Deputy Secretary Hicks and Jake both
to come in here to put the risks and the threats that Jim is framing up
in the broader perspective here.  And maybe, Deputy Secretary Hicks, if
you could start in sort of talking about the core security risks that
you think are in play here when we’re talking about semiconductors.

DEPUTY SECRETARY HICKS:  Absolutely, Brian.  So Jim Taiclet did a great
job, I think, laying out the dependency that we have on the defense
side, that our military has on advanced microelectronics — whether it’s
the Javelins we saw down in Alabama or the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter
that Lockheed Martin puts out to our nuclear weapons forces; and, of
course, as we look ahead to the future on emerging technologies, just as
Jim said — quantum, AI, hypersonics, 5G, 6G, Next G — all of that is
heavily dependent on ensuring our access to microelectronics.

We’re not the only ones focused on this challenge.  Of course, China is
also focused on this challenge.  And today, approximately 98 percent of
those commercial microelectronics that DOD is so dependent on are
assembled, packaged, and tested in Asia.  And as Jim said, we need to
make sure both that we can assure our access and that we can have the
most advanced capabilities that the commercial sector can offer.

So semiconductors, it’s not an overstatement to say, are the ground zero
of our tech competition with China.  They are able to have heavy
subsidies.  They weaponize the financial incentives to facilitate their
acquisition of intellectual property.  They’re building indigenous
microelectronics capabilities.  And they’re doing everything it takes to
become the center of gravity for semiconductor R&D and manufacturing.

So for the U.S. military — as we look ahead to what we need to make sure
our warfighters have, what they need to succeed on the field, and that
they can have security in using those capabilities — we know we must
secure a supply chain and domestic investment here in the United
States. 

The CHIPS-Plus Act will help us substantially return leading-edge
microelectronics to the United States; deliver winning combination of
design, system integration, and manufacturing.  It will help us build
commercially viable — which is critical for us in DOD — state-of-the art
fabrication facilities.  And that helps our commercial sector, of
course, but I can’t stress enough how much that helps our military. 

The resources provided for the CHIPS for America Defense Fund, inside
the CHIPS-Plus Act, funds innovative prototyping, experimentation; it
allows us to train our next generation of scientists, engineers, and
tech entrepreneurs; and it will assist us in retooling the community of
small, medium, and large businesses that create our leading-edge weapons
systems.

By creating opportunities to onshore microelectronics fabrication,
assembly, and testing, the CHIPS-Plus Act helps solve these two
important, critical, pressing microelectronics challenges facing our
military: both this issue of making sure we have assured access and also
making sure that we can have state-of-the-art technology to our
warfighters.

MR. DEESE:  Jake. 

MR. SULLIVAN:  Thanks, Brian.  And thanks to both Jim and Kath, who I
think have really summed up the case very powerfully.  So I’ll be brief
in expanding on why the CHIPS Act is so essential for both our national
security and our strategic competitiveness.

Making investments in cutting-edge technologies is, on one level,
obviously necessary to ensure that we stay ahead of China in the race
for the industries of the future.  Because as others have pointed out,
as the President has pointed out, for the first time, we face a
competitor that has the means, the resources, and the commitment to
overtaking U.S. technological leadership if we don’t up our game.  But
we have the means, capability, and resources to stay at the leading
edge, to keep our technology leadership if we make the necessary
investments, and this is the necessary investment. 

On another level, these investments are also needed to mitigate the
enormous risks to our national security and economic security that we
face right now today due to vulnerabilities in key U.S. technology
supply chains that were exacerbated by the COVID-19 pandemic.  In
particular, passing this legislation and fully funding the CHIPS Act is
crucial for strengthening our domestic supply of semiconductors for our
defense, intelligence, and strategic sectors. 

The bottom line is that continuing our dependence on a limited number of
overseas facilities to produce so many of the chips we consume,
including all of our most-advanced chips as of right now, is flat-out
dangerous.  And a disruption to our chip supply would be catastrophic.

So I’m both excited and relived that we’re on the cusp of addressing
this fundamental national vulnerability.  Because the longer we wait,
the more dangerous the disruption.

We also understand that strengthening supply chains is a job we do in
concert with allies.  We see cooperation as essential in this regard.

And with this bill, we’ll contribute our part to diversifying and
securing our shared chip supply chains, and we welcome our allies making
their own investments as well.

And one final note: As much as we need to get the CHIPS piece of this
bill done, it is CHIPS-Plus because chips alone are not going to be
sufficient to preserve U.S. technology and leadership, which is why we
need the rest of the Innovation Bill so that we invest not just in the
core technology powering innovation today, but also the technologies
that will power innovation tomorrow.

That’s why the additional authorizations for the National Science
Foundation, the Department of Energy National Labs, for NIST, and other
institutions that are contained in this bill are so important.

So, when it comes down to it, there’s bipartisan consensus, there’s
support from business, there’s support from labor, there’s support from
the national security community across the board, and there is support
from the American people to pass this legislation now and meet this
moment and resolve these vulnerabilities. 

Thanks, Brian.

THE PRESIDENT:  Jake, I’d like to ask you a question, if I can.  You’ve
heard me say it a bunch of times the last 15 months or so, and that is:
It used to be, 30 years ago or longer, we invested more than 2 percent
of our GDP in resea- — pure research and development.  It got down by, I
think, 0.7 percent of one — seven-tenths of 1 percent.  And China and
others have moved precipitously to invest more, particularly China, in
research and development — pure research and development.

And you say the second piece of this bill, not — not the purely defense
piece.  Elaborate a little more on what that will encourage — what we
hope it will encourage; what kind of — what kind of research and the
types of development we’re talking about — or are we — in that regard.

MR. SULLIVAN:  No, absolutely.  As I was saying, the — our ability to
maintain our innovation edge, to maintain our technology leadership
rests on having the necessary inputs like chips, but it also rests on,
as you just said, those foundational investments in the industries of
the future — investments that are made in basic research on everything
from artificial intelligence to quantum computing, to biotechnology, to
the future of the Internet and the future of telecommunications. 

And the country that is able to be out in front, to be leading the world
in those areas, not only will have a powerful economic competitiveness
that will be reflected in job creation and the growth of a strong middle
class, but also will have powerful national security advantages.  And
those are national security advantages that have helped sustain
America’s global leadership over decades. 

And by making this big investment, which is something that you have
talked about for years now, to actually get it done is going to make a
massive difference in our ability to be able to maintain our competitive
edge with respect to the industries of the future.

And in doing so, it will also help us shape the rules of the road on
technology, on these important technologies, in a way that reflects our
interests and our values and doesn’t let — leave them to be written by a
competitor or a challenger of ours who doesn’t share the same values we
share.

THE PRESIDENT:  I think that’s a really important point.  I think the
point is that we have — as we’ve led the world in the past in research
and development, generating new technologies — we’ve been inclined to
share it with the rest of the world, not — not — not sort of just foc- —
it as a economic weapon. We’ve — we’ve expanded, and our partners — the
democracies of the world — have benefited.

And it seems to me this is — this makes up a part of that.

Madam Secretary, can I ask you a question as well?

The — you — you responded to Jim’s comments and gave your views on the
core security risks at play.  What — from your perspective, what is
maybe — are you able to prioritize what risks are greater or less —
security risk?  That’s a tough question, because who knows for certain. 
But — (laughs) — I didn’t mean to put you on the spot, but can you sort
of weigh them for me a little bit?

DEPUTY SECRETARY HICKS:  Sure.  I think in today’s weapons systems, what
we worry about most is the compromise of the supply chain of the — of
the chips that are in our existing weapons systems, or as we upgrade, as
we always have to do, and put new chips in, those are, as I said,
largely dependent on the commercial market for whatever those chips may
be.

And so, we know that there have been others — adversaries — who have
sought to affect our chip supply, have sought to alter that.  And just
making sure that we can assure that when we put our warfighters out,
their weapons will operate as intended.  And that we, the United States,
retain control of that technology is incredibly important.  I would put
that at the top. 

And I would put second to that this issue of the kinds of capabilities
we seek for the future — the kinds of capabilities that make sure our
warfighters are safer, more ready, can deliver effects in a way that
deters adversaries from ever wanting to attack the United States.

And for that, we need that next-generation, most advanced, most capable
microelectronics supply chain to be secure.

THE PRESIDENT:  That’s important.  All right.  Well, thank you very
much.

Brian, back to you.

MR. DEESE:  Thank you, Mr. President.  So, we’re going to pivot here
from the national security case, which I think you’ve heard is both
compelling and urgent to the economic security element of this. 

And, obviously, as we make these investments, our goal is to generate
durable economic opportunity here in the United States, and the
opportunity there is quite significant.  We’re going to bring in Geoff
and Tom and Mark and Chris into this conversation.  But to just frame
this up at the beginning, I want to ask Secretary Raimondo to just give
us the, sort of, broader perspective here on the economics. 

And the — com- — in addition to being tireless on this effort, Secretary
Raimondo and the Commerce Department, if passed, will be given principal
responsibility for implementing this legislation.

So, Madam Secretary, if you could just sort of tee up what you see as
the economic context, and then I want to bring in Geoff and Tom and Mark
and Chris to this conversation.

SECRETARY RAIMONDO:  Yeah, absolutely.  Thank you, Brian.  Good
afternoon, Mr. President.  Good to see you.  And thank you for convening
all of us on this incredibly important topic.

So, look, I think the most important thing Congress can do right now to
support America’s economy and America’s workers and our global
competitiveness is to get this CHIPS Act over the finish line and onto
your desk this week.  It’s vital.  You know, the CHIPS Act proposes a
$52 billion investment in domestic semiconductor production, which will
enable us to revitalize our domestic semiconductor manufacturing.

I mean, the truth of it is we invented the semiconductor industry,
right?  Silicon Valley is Silicon Valley because we invented it right
here in the United States of America.  We used to make 40 percent of the
world’s chips; we make about 12 percent now.  And as Jake said, we make
essentially none of the leading-edge chips, and we’re utterly dependent
upon Taiwan for the leading-edge chips.

So in terms of economic security, chips are a cornerstone technology
that underpin our entire economy.  You need chips for smartphones,
computers, cars, medical equipment.  Nearly every piece of lifesaving
medical equipment in a hospital runs on chips.

And the reality is: While we have invested nothing to spur domestic chip
manufacturing, China has invested more than $150 billion to build their
own domestic capacity.  So we’re very much behind.

And the CEOs who are with us this afternoon, they know America has
become totally reliant on China, particularly for the mature chips — the
larger chips that are necessary for medical devices, aircraft,
industrial machines, et cetera.

The reality is, I don’t — it’s not possible to have a strong economy and
a strong country if we don’t make things in America and certainly if we
don’t make chips in America.

So, right now, America — chip manufacturers are finalizing their
investment plans.  And passage of the CHIPS Act is necessary, it’s
urgent, because the CHIPS funding will be the deciding factor on where
those companies choose to expand.  We know they will expand, because
they have to in order to meet demand; there’s no question about that.
 The question is where will they expand.  And we want them, we need them
to expand here in the United States.  We want high-quality, good-paying
jobs in America.

And, you know, the truth of it is, as I’ve said all along, this CHIPS
money is not a subsidy for big companies to make them more profitable or
so they have more cash for stock buybacks or to pad their bottom line or
to invest in other countries.  This is about investing in the United
States of America — in our workers, in our economy, and in our national
security.

And we need Congress to act so we send a clear signal to the world that
we’re serious about rebuilding our domestic manufacturing industry. 
It’s good for our economy, it’s good for our competitiveness, and it’s
good for American workers.

MR. DEESE:  Thanks.  Thanks, Gina.  I want to bring, Geoff — you and Tom
into this conversation.  And maybe I’ll start with you, Geoff, that —
the Secretary just mentioned it, but some people are actually surprised
to understand the healthcare nexus here.  But can you just elaborate a
bit on how you see the systemic impact in the healthcare industry, both
on the risk side but also the opportunity side, when you’re thinking
about semiconductors and the security of supply of those chips?

MR. MARTHA:  Sure.  Well, first of all, thank you, Mr. President, for
including me in this really important conversation.  It’s a real honor
to represent the medical technology industry here.

You know, Brian, as you were saying, you know, one of the most critical
aspects of our ability at Medtronic and for the medical technology at
large to get lifesaving and innovative medical technology to patients is
semiconductors.  They are essential components in thousands of medical
devices — Secretary Raimondo was referring to — that Americans rely on
every day.  Things like instruments that enable surgery or devices that
manage chronic conditions, like an insulin pump for a diabetes patient,
or a pacemaker for a patient with an irregular heartbeat, or even
treating COVID.  Right?  We manufacture pulse oximeters that measure the
oxygenation of the blood, as well as ventilators for those patients that
are really sick with COVID.

And, you know, our industry’s volumes are, you know, relatively small —
small compared to some other sectors.  We’re in the low single digits of
the overall chip market.  But every semiconductor — every semiconductor
component used in a medical device directly impacts a patient’s life. 

And, now, we appreciate the efforts of the semiconductor companies to
try to alleviate the current constraints with additional investments,
but more capacity is needed.  You know, that’s why I’ve been a vocal
supporter of the CHIPS Act for a while and urging Congress to pass and
fund this act.

Look, beyond the manufacturing — and we definitely need manufacturing
here in the U.S. to increase our capacity — you know, we need expanded
research and development as well.  And so, it’s all — passing this act
won’t solve all the problems overnight, but the investment will result
in new infrastructure, will spur innovation, increase supply.  And this
will help us solve these supply constraints that we’re under sooner, but
more importantly, it’ll help us avoid these challenges going forward. 

I mean, you know, in med-tech, we’ve done our best to manage the
situation with limited supply.  And we’ve been, you know, nimble enough
and adaptive enough to avoid major disruptions to delivery of patient
care, but there have been disruptions and there’s ongoing disruptions to
patient care.  And this puts a strain on an already strained healthcare
environment — the hospitals and healthcare workers — as we’re trying to
move inventory around to cover cases. 

And this shortage on semiconductors is predicted to go on for some
time.  Investment is needed.  And as Secretary Raimondo mentioned, the
particular types of chips that we use — that are larger and are much
more efficient on energy — are the ones that are, you know, the most —
in most critical, you know, demand right now and the shortest supply.

And, you know, in terms of opportunities going forward — shifting gears,
as you mentioned — you know, we’re at a great inflection point here of —
in healthcare, where you’ve got traditional biomechanical or biomedical
engineering advances. 

And when you combine those with advancements in the digital world and
the use of — appropriate use of data to really customize a therapy for a
patient — I’ll just give you one example: You know, patients suffering
from Parkinson’s often get a stimulator to apply low amounts of
stimulation to a certain part of their brain to control the Parkinson’s
symptoms, which are very difficult to live with. 

Historically, those patients would have to come in to their neurologist
to get that device reprogrammed on a pretty frequent basis because
disease — it’s a progressive disease.  But now, with the computing
capabilities that are out there and the use of data, we can — we can do
that all remotely and actually customize that therapy for that
individual patient.  And the outcomes are just much better, and the
strain on the healthcare system is much less.

And we — I could give you thousands of examples like that, where the use
of chips inside devices, on the edge, in the cloud, and the advancements
in computing power are really being harnessed to change patient care. 
And in such a profound way, you’re improving outcomes, you’re improving
access, and you’re bringing down cost all at the same time. 

So that’s the exciting part that we want to accelerate, but it’s really
hard right now, given the semiconductor supply that we’re facing.

MR. DEESE:  Thanks.  Thanks, Geoff. 

Tom, I wonder if you could offer your perspective too.  We’ve heard a
lot about the concerns in the transportation sector and engines, but
also — both in today constraints — but also the vision forward to the
electrification of the transportation sector as well.  We welcome your
thoughts here.

MR. LINEBARGER:  Thank you, Brian. 

And, Mr. President, it’s great to see you so well.  Thank you for the
opportunity to join this group of thought leaders from government and
industry and labor on the importance particularly of innovation funding
for the semiconductor industry. 

I think you know Cummins is an over 100-year-old company.  We are
headquartered in Columbus, Indiana.  We have over 25,000 employees in
the U.S.  And we work together to innovate on power solutions from the
industrial sector.  It’s remarkable how much Geoff and I have in common,
with our perspective on semiconductors, from completely different
sectors. 

Like others at the table, we are facing a supply chain crisis.  We are
unable to get the components we need, and semiconductors is always at
the top of the list.  And semiconductors are really the basic building
blocks; they are the steel of the 21st century.  They are what make
everything happen in the industrial sector, just as they do in the
medical sector. 

We appreciate the administration’s focus on the bottlenecks and
challenges we’re facing and your continued support of securing
semiconductor funding in Congress. 

The semiconductor shortage has not only impacted our ability to meet
customer demand but the technology and equipment we need to run our
operations.  We rely on semiconductors to power our machines, to put our
electronic control modules in our engine systems that control emissions,
even to make badges for our employees so that they can all come back to
work. 

In Cummins’s case, we also buy the full range of semiconductors.  And I
want to highlight how important that is.  Geoff talked about what we
often call “legacy chips.”  These are larger-scale chips.  They’re more
efficient, in his case.  They’re also more robust, in our case.  They
live in engines that serve some of the most demanding applications.  And
those legacy chips are just as important as the new technology and the
latest chips are for the defense industry.  Those legacy chips are what
power the trucks, cars, and many other basic building blocks of our
economy today. 

You know, these chips now deliver our food.  They make sure that our
generators support our hospitals and data centers.  They make sure on
the hottest day of the summer you’ve got air conditioning, and the — and
on the cool- — on the coolest day you’ve got heating. 

In addition to manufacturing delays, costs have escalated dramatically. 
So the supply chain crises and some of the effects that Secretary
Raimondo talked about have also driven significant cost increases.  We
are often buying chips from brokers now and paying as much as 10 times
the regular cost to get these chips just to make sure that we can keep
trucks on the road — driving inflation in our industry and challenges
throughout our supply chain. 

And I would say that semiconductor manufacturing, as all of us know,
requires high capital investments.  And the return for those investments
for — especially for legacy chips and more basic chips — is not as high
as it is for the latest edition chips.  I think that’s why some of this
funding is so critical to ensure the kind of investments we need made in
the United States are actually made.

We believe the CHIPS for America Act will go a long way to ensure not
only the high-tech chips are made for the innovation of tomorrow, which
is critical, but also that these basic and legacy chips are also
provided as part of our supply chain. 

In addition to the semiconductor funding, this bill also provides
critical funding for the National Science Foundation and other agencies
that will ensure that we are keeping pace with the investments made by
other countries for their domestic manufacturers.

The way that I think about that is that these — the investments made in
the CHIP Act are going to move us from wringing our hands about where we
sit in competition with others, to actually moving on to the field and
helping U- — the U.S. manufacturers compete.

And I think we all know that when U.S. manufacturers compete with the
workforce that we have and the capabilities we have, we can win.

MR. DEESE:  Thank you, Tom. 

I — Mr. President, with your permission, I would — I would just ask
Chris to come in here too. 

On that last point, Tom, that you made, I think is very salient that
this is a bill that is also about opportunity for Americans \[sic\]
workers and for the opportunity to build good jobs, good jobs in
construction and installation and operations of both the facilities to
produce chips themselves and the larde- –larger and broader ecosystem.

So, Chris, could you just give us your perspective from — from the
ground of how you’re thinking about this bill and where you see the
opportunity for American workers?

THE PRESIDENT:  I can’t hear him.

MR. DEESE:  Chris, if you can hear us, I think you’re muted.

MR. SHELTON:  Sorry, thanks for inviting me here, Mr. President.  We’re
really grateful to be here, because as far as we know, CWA is the only
union representing manufacturing workers at a final assembly
semiconductor factory in the United States, and we have been strong
supporters of the CHIPS Act. 

The CHIPS Act is a key component of both creating good jobs here in the
U.S. and strengthening our ability to compete with China.  Passage of
this bill is going to drive a huge amount of investment in semiconductor
manufacturing across the country.  It will result directly in tens of
thousands of jobs to help grow a key component of our manufacturing
sector. 

As I mentioned, CWA already represents hundreds of workers in Mountain
Top, Pennsylvania, right down the street from the President’s hometown,
who manufactures semiconductors — the only plant that we know of in the
United States that’s union represented.

With the passage of this bill and the growing investment in
semiconductor production, I’m expecting to be able to help organize
thousands of additional workers.  For those workers, this bill will be a
ticket to a better life.  I’m also glad that the bill includes key
protections to prevent companies that receive the money from turning
around and investing in semiconductor production in China instead of the
United States.

That means that it will help grow — us grow this industry right here in
the USA for the long term.

And it actually goes far beyond that.  This bill will help prevent us
from having to face the situation where the numerous industries that
depend on semiconductors — and that’s just about every industry — are
simply unable to acquire them ever again.

So, this bill is a key part of rebuilding our manufacturing sector as a
whole.  There’s no question that we need a comprehensive approach to
compete and to take on China’s unfair trade practices.  This bill is a
great first step in putting that approach together.

I hope that Congress sends this bill to your desk, Mr. President, as
soon as possible, and continues working to strengthen our
competitiveness and create good jobs for American workers.

Thank you.

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Chris.

MR. DEESE:  Mr. President, we’re —

THE PRESIDENT:  Brian —

MR. DEESE:  We’ve lost Mark for the time being, so let me turn it back
to you, Mr. President, for any questions you have or closing — closing
comments here.

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, I do have a couple of questions for Tom.  I’d like
to go back to him for a second.

You know, Tom, since I took office, there have been a massive investment
in electronic vehicles and the EV batteries.

I know Cummins is on the cutting edge of fuel cell and battery
electronic technology.  These technologies are more — they use more
semiconductors.  And how’s this legislation going to make a difference
for you in terms of accelerating your innovation? 

And I might add that in the — in the act we passed for infrastructure,
we have an awful lot of money for putting in electronic charging
stations all throughout America, along our highways and the like, and —
but that doesn’t even count the battery technologies that we need to
develop other things.

So, talk to me a little bit about the technologies and the use of
semiconductors, and why that’s likely to increase, and how this is going
to affect innovation.  Because I know it’s a broad question, and maybe
not a fair —

MR. LINEBARGER:  It’s a great — President — it’s a great question, Mr.
President, and thank you for asking it.

The use of semiconductors in cars and trucks and other industrial
equipment goes by an exponential scale effect.  Every single new range
of models, you see an exponential increase in semiconductors.  I think
that’s part of the reason why the industry is so far behind now.  As the
— as the demand increased for vehicles, they just didn’t do the math
right about how many more of these legacy chips we were going to need.

And as you say, as we move into electric vehicles and fuel cell vehicles
burning hydrogen, we are going to need — that exponential curve is just
going to keep growing.

And I would say that in addition to the fact that we’ll need more
semiconductors, newer versions, more capability to invest, we want to
establish leads in those technologies so that we can sell those
climate-improving technologies to the rest of the world.  That’s really
the way that the U.S. industry builds.  We solve the problems that we
need to solve here in the U.S, and then we use that same technology to
export those products to the rest of the world, and we get 95 percent
more customers.

That’s essentially how Cummins built its business.  I think that’s — a
lot of us have benefited from that, and we add jobs at home by building
that business overseas.

So I think we have a big opportunity here, but we need to invest now. 
The time is running — running out for us to get to the lead.  We already
see Europe and China and other places moving faster in battery electric
and fuel cell electric technologies, and we have to sprint to catch up. 

And the — of course, the Infrastructure Bill was a big help there.  I
think there’s also hydrogen that’s going to be needed in the
semiconductor industry.  And we’re — and we’re — we and other companies
in the U.S. offer electrolyzers that can provide that hydrogen using
green energy, and then we have green hydrogen so we decarbonize the
industry significantly as well.

So there are — there’s a lot of upsides for us investing here in the
U.S. in terms of building out that clean energy portfolio that allows us
to lead for decades to come.

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, I couldn’t agree with you more.  I — it seems to
me that — you know, like, I joke — and I don’t joke, because I’m serious
when I say it.  When I think of climate change, I think jobs.  And I
think there’s so many opportunities that we have.  And people,
understandably, don’t even realize that if we could just get our act
together in the Congress, we’d be able to do a heck of a lot more and
create literally thousands and thousands and thousands of good-paying
jobs.

Let me shift over.  I was going to ask Mark as well, but, Chris, thank
you for all the support you’ve been giving to this effort.  You know, it
was a top priority for me to ensure that incentives for semiconductors
have a Davis-Bacon prevailing wage requirement.  And these semiconductor
projects — there are billions of dollars and thousands of construction
jobs in each of these sites. 

And how are those Davis-Bacon requirements going to make sure that jobs
— that those jobs are good jobs?  Is there a correlation?

MR. SHELTON:  Yeah, the Davis-Bacon requirements will make sure that
people — you know, that there isn’t a race to the bottom; that there’ll
be an even playing field to the people working in this industry and the
people working on building the factories that will build these
semiconductors.  And, you know, Davis-Bacon requirements will make sure
that that happens and that, you know, no one will be left behind. 

And it will give us really, really good union jobs, mostly, to make sure
that the factories are built by union labor and that the manufacturing
is done by professional union people who really care about what they’re
doing and will stay on the job because they’re making good wages and
have a good job.

THE PRESIDENT:  (Audio muted.)  (Inaudible) — union labor is that, you
know, you are — all the folks working for you essentially have a college
degree in the technology that they’re working.  I mean, you just don’t
join your union and all of a sudden everything falls in place.  You got
to go to school, in effect; you got to be trained; you got to be in a
position to be able to do what you do better than anybody in the world
does it.  And so that was the reason why I’m pushing Davis-Bacon. 

And, you know, some of the facilities that — one that, God willing, will
be built very shortly — it was announced a while ago, pending what
happens in this legislation now — is one outside of — outside of
Columbus, Ohio.

And it’s going to create a whole lot of jobs, about — it’s going to
create a lot of jobs, but it’s also going to create a whole lot of jobs
in building the facilities.  And it just — it matters a lot, it seems to
me. 

And I’ve — and I say to all of you: I think we’re a heck of a lot
stronger as an economy and more sustainable when we build from the
bottom up and the middle out, because when that happens, everyone does
well — business does very, very well; the wealthy do very, very well. 

And I think we got a shot as we move down the line here.  And this CHIPS
bill is an important piece of it to be able to stay in the game and be
the most competitive nation in the world.  That’s what we have to
reestablish.  We still are in a lot of places, but we got to do it
here. 

And — but I — I don’t know.  Chris, you were talking about the benefits
and workers in the communications and media industry, as well as the
importance of manufacturing jobs and the country’s supply chain
resilience.  Do you — do you guys talk about that?  Do you — do you
worry about whether or not that’s going to happen?  I mean, is that — is
that something, you know, you’re sitting around, you guys actually
discuss, in practical terms?

MR. SHELTON:  We talk about it every day, Mr. President, because we see
what’s happening.  We see that lots of industries that — as some of the
CEOs said, lots of them can’t build or make whatever it is they make
because they can’t get semiconductors, for instance. 

And that, you know, when it’s another country making these things
instead of good American workers, they can always stop, and they do
stop, and we see this happening every day.  And we — you know, we worry
about what’s going to happen to this country if nothing is ever made
here again.  If we don’t make it here, we can’t be sure that, A, it
works and that, B, we’re going to be able to use it.

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, we’ve actually increased manufacturing, thank God,
even though we’ve missed opportunities.  But we — we’ve increased
manufacturing here at home. 

And, look, I want to thank everyone for joining today’s meeting.  I know
I’ve kept you a long time here.  But the CHIPS Act, in my view, is going
to advance the nation’s competitiveness and our technological edge. 

You know, we’ve been working closely with the Senate and the House to
finalize a strong bipartisan bill.  Congress must pass this bill as soon
as possible so we can get it to my desk so we can sign it and get
moving. 

I know we just talked about it, but for the folks at home, let me
explain why this is so urgent. 

First, there’s an economic imperative.  As we just heard, this bill is
going to supercharge our efforts to make semiconductors — those tiny
chips the size of a fingerprint, which is — you know, some are large,
but the size of a fingerprint — that power our everyday lives in
America.  You know, they’re the building blocks for the modern economy,
powering everything from smartphones, to dishwashers, to automobiles.  I
could go on.

America invented semiconductors, but over the years, we let the
manufacturing of those semiconductors get sent overseas.  And we saw
that, during the pandemic, when our factories overseas that make these
chips shut down because of in the case of — COVID was a big reason for
it — the global economy basically comes to a halt, driving up the costs
for families all around the world but particularly here at home.

One third of the core inflation last year in 2021 — one third of it was
due to the high price of automobiles.  You know why?  It was driven —
that’s driven by the inability to manufacture more automobiles.  Why? 
The shortage of semiconductors.  One third.

And even as we had that historic job growth and economic growth last
year, we sacrificed $240 billion in additional economic activity because
of the chips shortage.  So, for the sake of the economy and jobs, we
have to make these semiconductors here at home — at home.

Second, there is a national — as you heard, there’s a national security
imperative, as Deputy Defense Secretary Hicks and Jake Sullivan pointed
out.  Semiconductors also power — power our weapons systems.

And — and, Jim, earlier this year, I went down to Lockheed’s factory, as
I said, in Alabama, where they’re making the Javelin missile that we’re
supplying to Ukraine to defend themselves against Putin’s unprovoked
war.

It’s crystal clear to me that we need these semiconductors — crystal
clear, guys; all you have to do is be there and talk to the workers —
not only for these Javelin missiles, but also for the weapons systems of
the future that are going to even be more reliant on advanced chips.

Unfortunately, we’re not producing enough of them.  Taiwan produces 90
percent of the leading-edge chips; we produce zero.

China is moving ahead of us in manufacturing these sophisticated chips
as well, as we watched the U.S. production of these chips decline from
40 percent of global production to 12 percent.  At the same time, we
watched China go from 2 percent to 16 percent. 

And China’s goal, as recently stated, is 25 percent.  They need to
produce 25 percent to become fully self-sufficient.  It’s no wonder that
China is watching this bill so closely and actively lobbying U.S.
businesses against the bill.

America invented the semiconductor; it’s time to bring it home.  Doesn’t
mean others can’t do it.  It’s time we bring it home for all that we
need for our security and our economic growth.

Third, it’s just not me signaling the — signaling an urgency here. 
Listen to the business leaders here today and across the country. 
They’re making decisions right now about where to invest and ramp up
production of these semiconductors.  Are they going to invest in China,
India, Japan, South Korea, the European Union?

They’re all making historic investments in the tens of billions of
dollars to attract businesses to come to their countries — the countries
I just named — to produce these chips.

The United States has to lead the world in the production of these chips
for our own safety’s sake, as well as our economic growth.

Let me be clear: This bill is not about handing out a blank check to
companies.  Commerce Secretary Raimondo will be overseeing the key
investments of this bill, explaining how she’s laser-focused on the
guardrails that will protect taxpayers’ dollars and the interests of the
American workers, small businesses, and the communities in which they
reside. 

And the bill — the bill will require that I personally have to sign off
on the biggest grants before they can be dispersed.  It’s not
sufficient.  I’ve got to sign off on the big ones.

Secretary Raimondo will have the power that if companies don’t meet the
commitments and that are — that are required to meet by — in this bill,
she can take back the money. 

This includes the requirement on the construction of these semiconductor
facilities to pay Davis-Bacon prevailing wage, which will ensure that
tens of thousands of new construction jobs are good-paying union jobs
and the facility is the best built in the world.

And we’re not allowing — you know, we’re — we’re not going to allow
companies to use these funds to buy back stock or issue dividends, but
to invest.

And finally, this bill is about more than just semiconductors.  It
authorizes significant investment in American science and technology,
which I mentioned earlier. 

We have a need to power our economy and national security for the
decades to come.  We make those decisions now.  And the bill has
requirements that when we use taxpayer dollars to fund research and
development, the companies who get those funds have to deploy that
technology that comes from that R&D and the manufacturing of it right
here in America.  They get the money, they invest, they find a way, they
find an answer.  They have to invest in America, in a facility here in
America.

You know, we’ll — we’ll — we’re going to both invent in America and make
it in America.  And we’re going to make sure that we include all of
America, tapping into the greatest competitive advantage — our diversity
and talented workforce — making sure technologies of the future don’t
only benefit wealthy shareholders or (inaudible) but support technology
hubs all across America, including historic investments in historically
Black colleges and universities and minority-serving institutions, which
have the capacity to do so much more given the opportunity.

Look, I know we could go on for a long time — and I’ll be back to you,
God willing — but I want to thank you again for joining me today and for
the work in getting this bill to this point.

So, we’re — we’re close.  We’re close.  So, let’s get it done.  So much
depends on it.

And thank you all for helping today.  I truly appreciate it.

Q    Mr. President, how are you feeling with COVID?

THE PRESIDENT:  I’m feeling great, even though I’ve had two full nights
of sleep all the way through.  Matter of fact, my dog had to wake me up
this morning.  My wife’s not here.  She usually takes him out in the
morning while I’m upstairs working out.  And so, I felt this nuzzle of
my dog’s nose against my chest about five minutes to 7:00. 

So — no, but it is — I’m feeling good.  My voice is still raspy.  I’ve
had — every morning and every afternoon — I mean, excuse me, every
evening, I get a full-blown series of tests — everything from
temperature, to oxygenation — the oxygen in my — in my blood, to my
pulse, to — I mean, just across the board.  And so far, everything is
good.  I mean, everything is on the button.

And so I’m — I’m feeling better every day.  I still have this — a little
bit of a sore throat and a little bit of a cough, but it’s changing
significantly.  It’s now up in the — in the upper part of my — my
throat.  Actually, it’s more around my nose than anywhere else.  

And — but they tell me that’s par for the course.  And I think I’m on my
way to a full, total recovery, God willing.

Q    Mr. President, but when do you —

Q    How bored have you been?

Q    — when do you think you’ll be to work in person, Mr. President?

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, I hope I’m back to work in person by the end of
this week.  But I’m — as you know, I’ve been keeping a full schedule.  I
mean, I’ve done four major events today.  And I’m — you know, I’ve — and
I didn’t start today until 9:30, but — and I’ll finish today probably by
— what time is it now?  I’ll finish about 6:30.  Plus, I’m not keeping
the same hours.  But I’m — you know, I’m meeting all my requirements
that’s come before me, and we’re making decisions on a whole range of
other topics as well.

Q    Mr. President, will you speak with President Xi of China this week?

THE PRESIDENT:  That’s my expectation, but I’ll let you know when that
gets set up.  Okay?  I promise I’ll let you know.  It will not be a
surprise.

Q    And, Mr. President, we’re getting GDP numbers on Thursday.  How
worried should Americans be that we could be in a recession?

THE PRESIDENT:  We’re not going to be in a recession.  And in my view,
we are — the employment rate is still one of the lowest we’ve had in
history; it’s in the 3.6 area. 

We still find ourselves with people investing.

My — my hope is we go from this rapid growth to a steady growth.  And so
I’ll see — we’ll see some coming down.  But I don’t think we’re going to
— God willing, I don’t think we’re going to see a recession.

Thank you all so very, very much. 

Q    Feel better.

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you. 

3:57 P.M. EDT
