---
date: '2022-07-06'
modified_time: 2022-07-06 19:06:59-04:00
published_time: 2022-07-06 18:53:59-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/07/06/remarks-by-president-biden-on-the-american-rescue-plans-special-financial-assistance-program/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on the American Rescue Plan\u2019s Special Financial\
  \ Assistance\_Program"
---
 
3:19 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT:  Hello, Cleveland!  (Applause.)  Thank you.  Thank you. 

(The orchestra concludes playing “Hail to the Chief.”)

Thank you to the orchestra.  Thank you very much.  (Applause.)

Well, let me start off by saying — I’d get in trouble with my mother,
were she here, if I didn’t say, “Excuse my back when I’m speaking.”  I
apologize.  Number one.

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  (Inaudible.)

THE PRESIDENT:  You have my — (laughs) —

Hello, Cleveland!  Before I begin, though, I want to make one serious
comment about the shooting and the death of Jayland Walker.  The Justice
Department’s Civil Rights Division; the FBI Field Office in Akron, Ohio;
and the local U.S. Attorney’s Office are closely monitoring and
reviewing what happened.  

The FBI continues to coordinate with state and local partners to provide
resources and specialized skill.  If the evidence reveals potential
violations of federal criminal statutes, the Justice Department will
take the appropriate action.  And I just want you to know what’s going
to happen.  (Applause.)

And now — now for today’s program.  Thank you, Bill, for that
introduction and for the welcome on behalf of the Ironworkers Local 17
here in Cleveland. 

Ironworkers were with me the first time I ran, as a 29-year-old kid, for
the Senate.  And you’re all crazy.  (Laughter.)

I remember you got a guy named Tommy Schranck who was the president of a
Local in Delaware.  And he said, “Let’s go out and meet some of the guys
and women.” 

We went out to a buil- — a construction site.  We went up a makeshift
elevator.  We went up 13 floors.  They’re sitting on 18-inch beams,
eating their lunch.  I’m thinking to myself, “My God, these guys are
supporting me.”  But they’re the guys I grew up with.

You know, the people you heard speak earlier today — and I apologize,
I’m going to repeat some of what they said.  But, you know, we all come
from the neighborhood.  We all come from — no, I mean it.  I — I was
born in Scranton, Pennsylvania, which was a union town, mostly coalmine
union town — a lot more. 

My great-grandfather was a — worked in the mines, was a mining
engineer.  And everybody — everybody there — there was only one word you
heard most often in my family.  Not a joke.  Most important word wasn’t
“unions,” it was “dignity.”  “Dignity.”  Everyone is entitled to be
treated with dignity.

My dad — (applause) — then we moved to a little town — when coal died,
we moved to a town called Claymont, Delaware, just across the line in —
from Pennsylvania, where the Delaware River bends.

And, you know, you used to have over 6,000 — 6,000 steelworkers — were
steel.  It’s all gone now.  All of it, gone.  Used to be a company town,
literally.  The hills were all company stores, company — company
buildings.  But it’s gone.  And the union movement began to just crumble
in Delaware and in Claymont. 

And my dad never belonged to a union, but I say this at the front end:
My dad was a salesperson.  And he came down from Scranton when coal
died.  He wasn’t a coalminer, but he worked in sales up there.

And I’ll never forget: We lived in a — we lived in a three-bedroom,
split-level home, like a lot of suburban areas developing in the early
‘50s and mid-‘50s.  And there were, I think, 38, 40 homes.  And they
were — and we had four kids in the family and a grandpop living with us
and mom and dad.

And the walls were thin.  And my dad — one night, I could tell he was
really restless.  I could hear him and sort of a — not banging, but
leaning up against the wall in the room — my room.

Next morning, I asked my — my dad had an expression.  He said, “Joey,
you never complain and never explain.  Just get up.  Just get up.”

And I was wondering what was wrong.  And I asked my mom.  She said, “The
company says no pensions.  No pensions.”

And so, you know, a lot of you come from families like mine — a lot of
the people who stood behind me.  Richie Neal from the state of
Massachusetts — (applause) — he is, as my uncle would say — Richie is —
he is union from belt buckle to shoe sole, man.  (Laughter.)

And — but all the folks you heard speak today care about it, because we
know what it’s like to be deprived of your dignity.  We know what it’s
like to have a father or a mother have to put their head down when they
know they can’t afford a thing for their kid that they need, whether
it’s a prescription or whether it’s just plain being able to go off to
school.

And the point I want to make is this: We all understand this.  And when
I ran for office this time — and I’ve been a union supporter for my
whole career.  But I made a promise.  I mean it sincerely, and Marty
knows this.  I guaranteed, when the — you know, when the Fair Labor
Standards Act was passed and — back in the ‘30s — and Roosevelt came
along, it didn’t say unions were okay.  It says we should “encourage”
unions.  Encourage unions.  (Applause.)

Because when unions do well, everybody does well.  Everybody does well. 
(Applause.)  Not a joke.  Not a joke.

So here’s the deal.  The deal is quite simple.  When I ran, I was
criticized for the basis upon which I ran.  I said I’m running for three
reasons. One, to restore the soul of America — the decency and honor of
this country.  (Applause.)  And, two, to rebuild the backbone of the
country.  The backbone of the country are the working women and men, the
middle class.  And, you know, there’s a middle class for one reason:
American unions.  (Applause.)  That’s the only reason there’s a middle
class.  Not a joke.  That’s a fact.  Not a joke.

And when the middle class does well, everybody does well — people have a
way up, and the wealthy still do very well. 

And so, folks, the third reason I ran was to unify the country — to
unify it.  That’s been the harder part of it right now.  No, I’m
serious.  Because we’ve become so divided — so divided in this.  But one
thing we were divided on when we ran — and, you know, I want to thank
Mayor Bibb for the passport into the city.  (Applause.)

But we — we were divided on the question we’re celebrating today. 

And, folks, how about actually having a union guy as Secretary of
Labor?  Isn’t that something?  (Applause.)  Thank you, Marty.

And I know we have a fantastic Secretary of Housing and Urban
Development: Cleveland’s own Marcia Fudge.  (Applause.)  She’s — she
wished she was going to be here.

I’m also honored to be here with Senator Sherrod Brown, a great champion
of working folks.  (Applause.)  He really is.  He really is.

And thank you also for the incredible Democratic members of Congress
here.  Marcy Kaptur — God love you, Marcy.  (Applause.)  You are the
best.  She does it all — unions and foreign policy.  And for- — and you
think I’m joking.  I’m not joking.  She really knows more about foreign
policy.  She’s forgotten more than most members of Congress know. 
(Laughter.)

And, Shontel Brown, just remember me when you’re president, okay? 
(Applause.)  All right?  Congratulations.

Look, and Richie Neal is not only a strong, strong union supporter and
been a great supporter of this legislation, but he’s chairman of the
most powerful committee in the United States Congress, the House Ways
and Means Committee — the guys with the money.  The guys with money. 
And he’s led on labored issue — labor issues for decades.

You know, while they couldn’t be here, I also want to thank Senator Tim
Ryan — future Senator Tim Ryan — (applause) — and Senator Patty Murray
of the state of Washington for their incredible work on this
legislation.

With everyone’s leadership and with their votes and, most of all, with
the unrelenting commitment of labor and all of you, this historic day is
made possible.  And it really is historic.

This was $90 billion, okay?  (Applause.)  But it’s small in comparison
to the bailouts of businesses and major corporations and banks. 

And, folks, I’m here today to talk about the issue that affects every
single American and their retirement.  People around the country wake up
every day wondering whether they’ve saved enough to provide for
themselves and their families before they stop working — work at a job
that provides basic dignity, a good middle-class job you can raise a
family on, a job that provides a dignified retirement and will give you
peace of mind.

Think of all the people — and many of you went to bed at night putting
your head on the pillow and saying, “Am I going to be all right?  Is my
family going to be all right?  Is my wife or my husband or my child, are
they going to be okay?”

It’s a dignified retirement with your spouse in the home in your
community you worked and lived for your whole life.  But the reality is
for so many people: The goalposts keep moving.  Unfor- — that’s probably
Trump calling me.  (Laughter.)  I hear — I hear that sound there.

Unfortunately, this happens to people who need it most: working people
in this country.  A lot of politicians like to talk about how they’re
going to do something about it.  Well, I’m here today to say we’ve done
something about it.  (Applause.)  And I’ve kept their promise. 

I campaigned to restore the backbone of this country — the middle class
and unions — because I know this: The middle class built American
unions, built the middle class today.  I’m keeping the promise — one of
the most significant achievement union workers and retirees have
received in over 50 years.  And that’s not hyperbole.  (Applause.)

For years and years, union workers have been driving trucks from
factories to stores, bagging your groceries, constructing the buildings,
bridges, roads we need, and so much more.  The ironworkers, bricklayers,
carpenters, laborers, plumbers, truck drivers, musicians, I might add. 
(Applause.)  Food workers and so much more.

And with each paycheck you earn, their employers put money into their
pension plans.  These workers work hard today to secure a retirement
tomorrow.  That’s what it’s all about.

Now, a lot of businesses aren’t able or willing to run their own pension
plans.  And in some industries, workers are employed by several
different employers over the course of a year or longer. 

For example, we see that in transportation, construction, and
entertainment.  So working with the union that represents their
employees, businesses in the same industry often come together to form
what’s called multi-employer union — and I know you know this, but
people listening to this on television may not know this — pension plans
that serve 11 million Americans across the country. 

And to make sure these pensions are managed responsibly and to protect
the participating workers and retirees, the federal government oversees
and insures the plans. 

But we’ve seen the risk of millions of workers face as they watch their
hard-earned pensions turn into broken promises.    We saw it before the
pandemic and the economic crisis that followed.  Millions of retirees
were at risk of losing their retirement security, through no fault of
their own, based on conditions and unrelenting attacks on unions that
were taking place.

Two hundred multiemployer pension plans for 2 to 3 million workers and
retirees were going insolvent.  What that means is to those 2 or 3
million workers — they faced painful cuts to the benefits they counted
on and for the dignified security of retirement.

You just heard from Bill what it’s like to work 30, 40, 50 years —
working hard every day, doing everything to provide for your family;
track every dollar of that paycheck for groceries, the mortgage, and,
hopefully, for a family vacation maybe one day; knowing when it’s time
to retire, your pension you earned will be there; knowing that together
with your Social Security benefits, that pension will continue a good
middle-class life for you in retirement.  For some, just — my dad used
to say, “Just a little peace of mind.”  

But for folks at home, imagine losing 50 or 60 percent of that pension
through absolutely no fault of your own.  Imagine what it does
financially and emotionally, what it does to your dignity. 

Also here is Davey Grubbs, a retired Teamsters truck driver from North
Carolina who faced nearly 70 percent cut in his pension. 

And now also joining me today is Rita Lewis.  Where are you, Rita?  Rita
is here somewhere, I’m told.  She stepped out.  I don’t blame her. 
(Laughter.)  You know, she’s Butch’s widow.  And their anniversary is
coming up in a couple of days.  Childhood sweethearts. 

Butch was a ballplayer drafted by the Pittsburgh Pirates out of high
school, but he enlisted in the United States Army instead.  Special
Forces Army Ranger.  Served in Vietnam.  Earned, like my son, the Bronze
Star.  My son did not earn the Purple Heart, but — and the Purple
Heart. 

Came back home to Rita, settled in Cincinnati.  Became a trucker
represented by the Teamsters, and then president of his local.  Known as
an honorable, honest, and decent labor leader. 

Butch faced severe cuts in his pension, and he became a fierce advocate
for protecting the pensions of his fellow workers. 

Butch died more than 16 years — 6 years ago.  And Rita has carried on
his legacy ever since. 

And with the — with — and with the Democrats in Congress, I might add,
and Marty Walsh’s leadership, we brought the Butch — he — we fought for
the Butch Lewis Act to protect pensions for millions of workers and
retirees. 

As a candidate for President, I argued for its passage and promised,
when it passed, I would sign it.  And that’s the promise I’ve kept when
I — I included the Butch Lewis Act in the American Rescue Plan.
(Applause.)  

Now, multi-employer plans will remain solvent for decades to come at
least until — guaranteed until 2051.  These retirees — those retirees
who lost their benefits will have them restored retroactively. 
(Applause.)  We turned a promised broken into a promised kept.  

It matters to workers.  It matters to their families.  It matters to the
country. 

You all remember what the economy was like when I was elected: a country
in a pandemic with no real plans how to get out of it — millions of
people out of their jobs, families in cars — remember? — backed up for
literally miles, waiting for a box of food to be put in their trunk. 
Just a — a box of food to be put in their trunk because they didn’t have
enough to eat. 

The previous administration lost more jobs on its watch than any
administration since Herbert Hoover — that’s a fact — all based on
failed trickle-down economics that benefitted the wealthiest Americans
and hit the middle class and working people the hardest.  

But we came in with a fundamentally different economic vision: an
economy that grows from the bottom up and the middle out.  It’s good for
everyone, because when the middle class does well, the poor have a
ladder up and the wealthy still do very well.  (Applause.)  
  
And that’s why we designed the American Rescue Plan based on — based on
the belief that a recovery should help all Americans prosper, a belief
that working — building power and unions are good for workers and for
the economy, a plan that led to the most jobs created in the first
period of a presidency than any time in over — in all American history. 
(Applause.)

And we’ve seen in the past how economic crisis can leave so many
Americans in tough straits for years, sometimes for the rest of their
lives.  Economists call it the “scarring effect” — the lasting bad
effects of economic hardship, including folks unemployed for a long
time.

Remember, when we started this, a lot of people were equally as
qualified, but they’d been unemployed for 8, 10, 12 months; they
wouldn’t even be considered.  Two people put in an application — the
person may be more qualified but unemployed — out of — out of work for
longer.  It’s called the “scarring effect” — people not able to get back
to work.  Period.  But we changed that.  And young people who faced a
weak labor market — they’re back.  

Losing a big part of your income late in life, that’s a scar, though,
that doesn’t heal.  Well, not this time.  Long-term unemployment and
youth unemployment dropped at a record pace.  With today’s actions,
millions of workers will have the dignified retirement they earned and
they deserve.  (Applause.)

And, folks, let’s be honest: I’d love to tell you, everyone, that — here
that this policy that honors hard work and ensures dignified retirement
was universally supported, regardless of political party.  But this is
an important point and this really matters: Unfortunately, that’s not
the case.  

Not one single Republican — not — no, this is — I mean, this is what I’m
talking about.  Not one single solitary Republican voted for the Butch
Lewis Act or this legislation.  
  
AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  And, folks — and, folks, I can tell you, those of us in
the — were — I was in the Congress a long time, and the people are still
in the Congress — there’s ones who wanted to, but they’re afraid to —
afraid to — because the Trumpers would literally take them out.  Not a
joke.  That’s how bad it’s gotten.  We’ve got to change it.  We’ve got
to change it.  
  
In fact, when this bill was moving through Congress, Republicans called
it — called these pensions, quote, “rat holes.”  That was their — no,
that was their phrase on the floor — “rat holes.”

Who do they think they are?  Who do they think you are, for God’s sake? 
And my predecessor had the chance to act, but he didn’t have the
commitment to you or the courage to stand up to his own party to get
things done, dismissing and ignoring the forgotten people he promised to
help.  Remember how he was going to help working-class folks? 

But tax cut for the wealthiest Americans — he had no trouble passing
that.  They passed a $2 trillion tax cut, not a penny of which was paid
for.  Increased the debt by $2 trillion.  The vast majority of people
making the top 1 percent of income, the biggest corporations and their —
their biggest cheerleaders of that two thou- — $2 trillion tax cut. 
Again, disproportionately benefitted the wealthiest — the wealthiest
Americans.  
  
Protecting a system in which, for example, the 55 of the largest Fortune
500 companies in America paid zero in taxes.  Zero.

  
They made — they made $40 billion.  Didn’t pay a single penny.  
  
The party that choose to make life more comfortable for the already
comfortable disparage and oppose retirement security for working
people. 

And now, when Republicans actually do offer a plan — and they finally —
we — you know, I’m not joking.  Ask yourself this question: What is the
Republican platform going into this campaign?  
  
AUDIENCE:  (Inaudible.)  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  No, no.  I’m not — I’m being deadly earnest.  I’m not
trying to be poli- — just — just a fact.  
  
Well, they have a guy who is the — Rick Scott from Florida, who heads up
the Republican Campaign Committee.  He put out the plan.  What does that
plan do?  It makes the tax system less fair by giving — wanting to tax
everybody making under $100,000 significantly more, on average — a lot
more money.  It actually raises taxes on those working families because
he thinks you don’t pay enough in taxes already.  
  
No, no.  Not a joke.  I can — I should have brought along the actual
copy of the plan, but go online and get — no, for real.  It’s been
published.  They published it.  They think we’re freeloaders.  
  
But he’s not — but he’s got a problem with a tax code that allows
billionaires — none at all, no problem — trillion and billionaires in
America — there’s 789 or thereabouts.  You know what their average
federal income tax they pay?  Eight percent.  
  
Every one of you have a job pays more than 8 percent — every single one
of you.  If you’re a cop, a teacher, a firefighter, union worker, you
probably pay two to three times that.  Now, after refusing to protect
your pension, they’re going after your Social Security.  
  
Look, I would have thought, had I not seen it on paper and heard them
talk about it, that I was making this up.  Not a joke.  
  
  

His big idea is put Social Security on the chopping block every five
years.  That is: Every five years, Social Security, Medicare, and
Medicaid have to be reauthorized or they go out of existence.

Social Security you paid in from the day you started working.  It’s your
other pension.  You paid into it every single paycheck.  You earned it. 
It’s your money, just like your pension. 

And he adds in Medicare and Medicaid for the chopping block every five
years.  Unless Congress explicitly votes to extend those programs, they
go away. 

You know how they work the rules in the Senate.  The ability to slow
this up and keep that from happening is real.

You know how hard it is to get anything done in Congress.  Imagine what
it would mean if Republicans had their way.  

Look, the ultra-MAGA Republicans — Congress is deciding every five years
whether the — your promise of your hard-earned Medicare and Social
Security would be continued or discontinued or slashed.  It’s shameful. 

But Rick Scott is not alone.  Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina
is talking —

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE PRESIDENT:  No, he has a proposal to cut Social Security. 

And by the way, I might note, parenthetically: As President — the first
year I was President, I cut the federal deficit by $350 billion.  And do
you know how much I cut it this year?  (Applause.)  Cut — cut this year
— by the end of September, I will have cut the federal budget by $1
trillion 400 billion — cut the deficit.  (Applause.) 

So, when they start talking about you being big spenders, just point
them to that. 

But here’s the point: Republicans are talking about privatizing social
security — privatizing social sec- —

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE PRESIDENT:  No, I — this is not a jo- — I mean, you know, we used to
hear this stuff and think they didn’t mean it, but they’ve written it
down. 

The senator from Wisconsin, Ron Johnson, promised again that if they
regain power, they’re going to get rid of the Affordable Care Act. 

What does that mean?  It means that if any of you who have a preexisting
condition will automatically lose insurance.  Because the insurance
companies are able to — right now, because of the Affordable Care Act,
no one can be denied insurance because they have a preexisting
condition.  It’s the only thing that —

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  (Inaudible.)

THE PRESIDENT:  — no.  And by the — we’re talking 90 million people with
preexisting conditions gone.  Gone.

They tried to do it about 17 times last — under Trump.  We were able to
stop them.

But, folks, this is a different world.  I don’t know where they live. 
(Laughter.)  No, I’m not joking.  That’s why elections have
consequences, and that’s why they matter, and that’s why what we’re
doing here is so important.

Let me close with this: We’ve made incredible cogress \[sic\] on the —
progress on the economy from where we were a year and half ago.  We got
a long way to go because of inflation and because of the — I call it
“the Putin tax increase” — “Putin” because of gasoline and all that
grain he’s keeping from being able to get to the market.

Now I’m fighting like hell to lower costs on the things that you talk
about around your kitchen table.  My dad used to say, “At the end of the
day, it’s just, when you sit at that table, do you have enough money to
pay for everything you need?”  Not a lot over.  Do you have enough money
to pay for everything you need?

While Republicans do nothing <s>to</s> \[but\] obstruct our efforts to
lower your gas taxes — I’ve proposed that and I’ve asked the Congress to
eliminate the federal gas tax for the next — as long as this crisis goes
on; to lower food prices, lower healthcare costs; hopefully soon, lower
your prescription drug costs. 

By the way, you’ve got a — you got a Republican leader in the United
States Senate. 

I was able to work out something with Intel.  They’re going to provide
for over 7,000 jobs in this state, out of Columbus — (applause) — making
computer chips.

Well, there’s another bill that, if we get it passed — and my guys are
working like hell to pass it — it’ll create another $100 <s>million</s>
\[billion\] in investments in Ohio, creating more jobs.  (Applause.) 

But do you know what?  You know what the Republican leader is saying? 
If, in fact, we pass the law that says Medicare can negotiate drug
prices like they can for the military; if, in fact, we pass the plan
that says we’re going to raise taxes on multi-millionaires so they start
paying their fair share, then he’s going to block the passage of the
legislation that will provide for another $100 billion invested in this
state.

Folks, this is not right.  This is not right.  And that’s why this
election is going to be so darn important.  The key is that we just have
to remember who built this country.  (Applause.)  I know I remember.   

Tomorrow, I’ll be awarding the highest honor that can be given to a
civilian, the Presidential Medal of Freedom, to our dear friend the late
Rich Trumka, who fought so damn hard to protect — (applause) — for the
protection of these pensions.  He once said unions — quote, “We do
America’s work.”  Unions do America’s work.  (Applause.)  

This Fourth of July, let’s remember who — who is the backbone of this
country.  It’s you, the American worker.  I promised you I would be the
most pro-labor, pro-union, pro-worker President in our history.  And
there’s another promise I am going to be keeping as well.  (Applause.) 
So, let me tell you something: There’s no other place I want to be than
right here with the workers in this room and the workers that built
America.  (Applause.) 

I see you, I hear you, and I’ll always have your back.  I promise.  God
bless you.  And may God protect our troops.  Thank you, thank you, thank
you.  (Applause.) 

3:47 P.M. EDT
