---
date: '2023-01-31'
modified_time: 2023-01-31 11:21:04-05:00
published_time: 2023-01-31 11:21:03-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/01/31/a-proclamation-on-american-heart-month-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on\_American Heart Month,\_2023"
---
 
     During American Heart Month, we recommit to supporting the more
than 120 million Americans living with a cardiovascular condition;
advancing groundbreaking and lifesaving research; and expanding access
to affordable health care, prescription drugs, and healthy lifestyles.

     Heart disease has long been the leading cause of death in the
United States, claiming nearly 700,000 lives a year.  Nearly half of all
American adults have at least one major risk factor for cardiovascular
disease.  From heart attacks and strokes to high blood pressure, the
threat of cardiovascular disease touches almost every family in our
Nation.  But while heart conditions can be costly and deadly, they are
also often preventable with access to affordable health care,
advancements in technology, and lifestyle changes.

     There is so much we can do to keep advancing our fight against
heart disease.  Last March, I was proud to launch a major biomedical
innovation initiative, the Advanced Research Projects Agency for Health,
to drive breakthroughs in preventing, detecting, and treating
life-threatening conditions like Alzheimer’s, diabetes, and cancers —
progress that can lead to critical advancements on a range of
cardiovascular diseases as well.  Meanwhile, to help more families
afford existing treatments, the Inflation Reduction Act will cap
out-of-pocket prescription drug costs for seniors on Medicare at $2,000
a year, no matter the medication — including those that work to prevent
blood clots, lower blood pressure or cholesterol, manage diabetes, and
otherwise promote heart health.  That landmark law will also bring down
the cost of health coverage under the Affordable Care Act and allow more
Americans to gain coverage.  This will help more people access free
preventative services like blood pressure and obesity screenings and
afford quality, comprehensive care if diagnosed.

     My Administration is working to help more people lead heart-healthy
lifestyles as well.  At last fall’s White House Conference on Hunger,
Nutrition, and Health — the first in over 50 years — we released a
national strategy to reduce diet-related diseases.  This includes
providing healthy, free meals to millions more school kids; boosting
Medicaid and Medicare coverage for services like nutrition and obesity
counseling; expanding incentives for fruits and vegetables in the
Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program; and increasing access to
parks and exercise, especially in underserved communities.  To further
reduce smoking, a major cause of heart disease, the Food and Drug
Administration has also proposed a rule to ban menthol-flavored
cigarettes and flavored cigars, which are popular among first-time
smokers.

     As treatments and access to care improve, we can each help to raise
awareness of the importance of a healthy heart.  Exercising regularly,
eating well, managing weight, and avoiding smoking or vaping are proven
to reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease.  And we can save lives by
each learning the warning signs of a heart attack or stroke and
consulting a doctor if we have risk factors or symptoms.

     We encourage all Americans to help bring attention to heart health
by wearing red on National Wear Red Day, held on Friday, February 3rd.
 This month and always, we honor the memories of those we have lost to
heart disease, and we celebrate the courage of the countless loved ones
who are living strong, full lives despite having heart conditions.  I am
committed to doing all I can to improve their futures.

     To learn more about heart health, please talk to your health care
provider or visit CDC.gov/heartdisease.

     In acknowledgement of the importance of the ongoing fight against
cardiovascular disease, the Congress, by Joint Resolution approved
December 30, 1963, as amended (36 U.S.C. 101), has requested that the
President issue an annual proclamation designating February as “American
Heart Month.”

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, do hereby proclaim February 2023 as American Heart
Month, and I invite all Americans to participate in National Wear Red
Day on February 3, 2023.  I also invite the Governors of the States, the
Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, officials of other areas subject to the
jurisdiction of the United States, and the American people to join me in
recognizing and reaffirming our commitment to fighting cardiovascular
disease and extending the promise of a long and healthy life across this
country.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
thirty-first day of January, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-three, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-seventh.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
