---
date: '2023-01-13'
published_time: 2023-01-13 10:14:41-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/01/13/a-proclamation-on-religious-freedom-day-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Religious Freedom Day,\_2023"
---
 
     On Religious Freedom Day, we reflect on our right to practice,
pray, and preach our faiths peacefully and openly.  Across the country,
we practice many different religions.  We celebrate many different
traditions.  And we honor our faiths in many different ways and places —
from churches, to mosques, to synagogues, to temples.  This religious
freedom — this freedom to practice religion fully and freely or to
practice no religion at all — is enshrined in our Constitution.  And
together we must continue to preserve and protect it.

     This effort is as important now as it has ever been.  In the United
States, we are facing a rising tide of antisemitism and renewed attacks
against certain religious groups.  Across the world, minority
communities — including Uyghurs, Rohingya, Ahmadiyya Muslims, Jews,
Christians, Bahá’ís, Yezidis, atheists, and humanists — continue to face
intimidation, violence, and unequal protection under the law.  This hate
is harmful to our communities and countries, and it is on all of us to
speak out and stop it.

     That is exactly what my Administration is doing.  We established
the Protecting Places of Worship Interagency Policy Committee last
January, and implemented the largest-ever increase in funding for the
physical security of non-profits — including churches, gurdwaras,
mosques, synagogues, temples, and other houses of worship. In my 2023
Budget proposal, I called for another large increase in funding for this
key program. In September, we hosted the United We Stand Summit, the
first White House summit on combating hate-motivated violence, including
violence on the basis of religion.  In December, I established a new
interagency group to increase and better coordinate the Federal
Government’s efforts to counter antisemitism, Islamophobia, and other
forms of bias and discrimination within the United States.  As its first
order of business, this group is developing a national strategy to fight
antisemitism.  To build bridges across beliefs and backgrounds, the
White House Office of Faith-Based and Neighborhood Partnerships is
collaborating with diverse faith and community leaders on a range of
projects — including helping families recover from disasters,
distributing COVID-19 vaccines, improving maternal and child health, and
resettling refugees across the United States. 

     The United States is also speaking out and standing up against
religious persecution around the world.  Last year, my Administration
provided $20 million to help promote religious freedom and protections
for members of religious minorities globally, including helping ensure
that people everywhere can practice their faiths free from fear.  I
appointed Rashad Hussain as Ambassador at Large for International
Religious Freedom — the first Muslim to hold this post — and Deborah
Lipstadt, a Holocaust expert, as the first Ambassador-level Special
Envoy to Monitor and Combat Antisemitism.  As a founding member of the
International Religious Freedom or Belief Alliance, we also have
coordinated with partners around the world to promote the rights of
religious minority groups and combat persecution.  And we are ensuring
that United States diplomats continue to receive training on religious
freedom and its central importance to our work.

     Faith has sustained me throughout my life.  For me and for so many
others, it serves as a reminder of both our collective purpose and
potential in the world.  But for far too many people within our borders
and beyond, practicing their faith still means facing fear and
persecution.  Today, let us recommit ourselves to ending this hate.  And
let us work together to ensure that people of all religions — and no
religion — are treated with equal dignity and respect.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim January
16, 2023, as Religious Freedom Day.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
thirteenth day of January, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-three, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-seventh.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
