---
date: '2023-01-22'
modified_time: 2023-01-22 14:01:02-05:00
published_time: 2023-01-22 14:01:01-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/01/22/memorandum-on-further-efforts-to-protect-access-to-reproductive-healthcare-services/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Memorandum on Further Efforts to Protect Access to Reproductive Healthcare\_\
  Services"
---
 
MEMORANDUM FOR THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  
                   THE SECRETARY OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES  
                   THE SECRETARY OF HOMELAND SECURITY

SUBJECT:       Further Efforts to Protect Access to Reproductive  
               Healthcare Services

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered as follows:  
  
Section 1.  Policy.  Since 2000, the medication mifepristone has been
approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for use in the United
States as a safe and effective method to end early pregnancy.  
  
     The Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007 (Public Law
110-85) requires the FDA, working with drug manufacturers, to specify
conditions for the use of certain drugs after considering six
congressionally mandated factors.  The Act sets forth a detailed
administrative process to develop such conditions for use, known
collectively as the Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategies (REMS),
for individual drugs.  Mifepristone has long had a REMS specifying the
conditions for its use.   
  
     On January 3, 2023, the FDA, after an independent and comprehensive
review of the risks and benefits of the drug, modified the REMS for
mifepristone.  The FDA took evidence-based action that supports access
to mifepristone by helping ensure that healthcare providers and patients
can continue to use telehealth to prescribe and receive mifepristone by
mail after the end of the COVID-19 public health emergency.  During the
COVID-19 public health emergency, the FDA stopped enforcing a prior
requirement that mifepristone be dispensed in person, and the FDA’s
January 2023 REMS permanently removed the in-person dispensing
requirement.  Additionally, pharmacies can now choose to become
certified to dispense mifepristone to patients.  These changes seek to
reduce the burden on the healthcare delivery system while ensuring the
benefits of the medication outweigh the risks.  These changes also help
ensure that patients can access mifepristone similarly to how they would
access other prescribed medications.       
  
     In the wake of the new REMS for mifepristone, there have been
reports of efforts to suppress access to medication abortion.  Some
State officials have announced that they will impose restrictions to
limit access to this evidence-based, safe, and effective medication.  In
a letter to the FDA, for example, 22 State Attorneys General threatened
to enforce State laws that purport to interfere with access to
mifepristone.  In Florida, the Governor recently said that major
pharmacy chains in the State will not offer mifepristone.  Florida
health officials issued guidance discouraging pharmacies from dispensing
mifepristone, claiming that State law limits where abortion medication
can be provided to hospitals, clinics, or physician offices.  These
actions have stoked confusion, sowed fear, and may prevent patients from
accessing safe and effective FDA-approved medication.  
  
     At the same time, those who provide reproductive healthcare
continue to face heightened safety concerns.  There are reports that
some have vowed to make people uncomfortable entering pharmacies that
dispense mifepristone.  
  
     In Executive Order 14076 of July 8, 2022 (Protecting Access to
Reproductive Healthcare Services), I directed the Secretary of Health
and Human Services (HHS) to identify potential actions to protect and
expand access to abortion care, including medication abortion.  In that
order, I directed the Attorney General and the Secretary of Homeland
Security to consider actions, as appropriate and consistent with
applicable law, that would protect the safety and security of patients,
providers, and third parties, and that would protect the security of
pharmacies and other entities providing, dispensing, or delivering
reproductive and related healthcare services.  
  
     Since the issuance of Executive Order 14076, my Administration has
taken steps to clarify the protections available to those who seek
reproductive health services.  The Department of Justice announced the
formation of a Reproductive Rights Task Force, which, among other
things, is focused on evaluating and monitoring State and local
legislation, regulation, and enforcement actions that threaten to
infringe on Federal legal protections relating to the provision or
pursuit of reproductive care.  HHS has published a report detailing its
efforts to protect access to reproductive healthcare, including abortion
care; protect patients’ privacy and promote access to accurate
information about reproductive healthcare services; and ensure that
patients receive appropriate medical treatment under the law.
 Furthermore, HHS has continued taking action to help ensure
non-discrimination in healthcare service delivery, including with
respect to reproductive healthcare services and pharmacy access.  
  
     My Administration remains committed to supporting safe access to
mifepristone, consistent with applicable law, and defending women’s
fundamental freedoms.  Defending and protecting reproductive rights is
essential to our Nation’s health, safety, and progress.  It is the
policy of my Administration to protect against threats to the liberty
and autonomy of those who live in this country.  
  
Sec. 2.  Continuing to Protect Access to FDA-Approved Medication.  In
light of recent developments and consistent with Executive Order 14076,
within 60 days of the date of this memorandum:  
  
     (a)  The Secretary of HHS, in consultation with the Attorney
General and the Secretary of Homeland Security, shall consider:

\(i\)   issuing guidance for patients seeking legal access to
mifepristone, as well as for providers and entities, including
pharmacies, that provide reproductive healthcare and seek to legally
prescribe and provide mifepristone; and

\(ii\)  any further actions, as appropriate and consistent with
applicable law, to educate individuals on their ability to seek legal
reproductive care, free from threats or violence.

     (b)  The Attorney General, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and
the Secretary of HHS shall, as appropriate, provide the Interagency Task
Force on Reproductive Healthcare Access, established in Executive Order
14076, with information concerning:

\(i\)   potential barriers faced by patients seeking legal access to
mifepristone or other reproductive healthcare, as well as by providers
and entities, including pharmacies, that provide reproductive healthcare
in providing mifepristone or other reproductive healthcare, and any
recommendations for addressing these barriers; and 

\(ii\)  whether any additional institutional resources may be necessary
to address these barriers.

Sec. 3.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this memorandum shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:

\(i\)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or
agency, or the head thereof; or

\(ii\)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

     (b)  This memorandum shall be implemented consistent with
applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.  
  
     (c)  This memorandum is not intended to, and does not, create any
right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in
equity by any party against the United States, its departments,
agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other
person.  
  
     (d)  The Attorney General is authorized and directed to publish
this memorandum in the *Federal Register*.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
