---
date: '2023-01-20'
modified_time: 2023-01-20 10:38:19-05:00
published_time: 2023-01-20 10:36:51-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/01/20/a-proclamation-on-50th-anniversary-of-the-roe-v-wade-decision/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on 50th Anniversary of the Roe v. Wade\_Decision"
---
 
     Fifty years ago, on January 22, 1973, the Supreme Court issued its
landmark 7–2 decision in *Roe v. Wade*, protecting a woman’s
constitutional right to choose.  This case reaffirmed basic principles
of equality, reinforced the fundamental right to privacy, and resolved
that women in this country could control their own destinies — making
deeply personal decisions free from political interference.

     The Court got *Roe* right 50 years ago.  It was a balanced decision
with broad national consensus that the majority of Americans have
continued to support for the last 50 years.  And it was a constitutional
principle upheld by justices appointed by Democratic and Republican
Presidents alike.

     But 7 months ago, a conservative majority on the Supreme Court
overturned *Roe*.  Never before has the Court taken away a right so
fundamental to Americans.  In doing so, it put the health and lives of
women across this Nation at risk.  The Supreme Court opened the door for
new challenges to other fundamental freedoms, including access to
contraception and the right to marry whom you love.  Millions of women
now live in States with extreme bans on abortion, many without
exceptions for rape and incest, or, where doctors can be jailed for
providing reproductive care.  Today, trailblazers who fought heroically
for the *Roe v. Wade* decision are watching the next generation grow up
without its protections.

     On what would have been the 50th anniversary of protections under
*Roe v. Wade*, my Administration is resolute in its commitment to
defending reproductive rights and continuing our Nation’s progress
toward equality for all.  In response to the Court’s extreme *Dobbs v.
Jackson Women’s Health Organization* decision, I issued Executive Orders
to ensure that patients receive care during medical emergencies; to
protect access to contraception and abortion services, including access
to medication approved by the Food and Drug Administration; and
to improve the safety of patients, providers, and clinics. 
My Administration is helping to safeguard patients’ privacy over their
health data and is ensuring that women everywhere have access to
accurate information about their reproductive rights.  I also created an
Interagency Task Force on Reproductive Healthcare Access to lead our
Government-wide response.  And senior Administration leaders, including
Vice President Kamala Harris, have traveled the country listening to
women, health care providers, legal experts, and State and local
officials to ensure that our efforts are reaching those most in need of
support.  

     Since the Court’s decision to overturn *Roe*, Americans across the
country — from California to Kansas to Michigan — have made clear at the
ballot box that they believe the right to choose is fundamental and
should be preserved.  Still, we know that the only way to truly secure
the right to choose is for the Congress to codify the protections of
*Roe v. Wade*.  I continue to call on the Congress to pass legislation
to make those protections the law of the land once and for all.  Until
then, I will continue to use my Executive authority to protect women and
families from harm in the wake of the *Dobbs* decision.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
January 22, 2023, as the 50th Anniversary of the *Roe v. Wade*
Decision.  I call upon Americans to honor generations of advocates who
have fought for reproductive freedom, to recognize the countless women
whose lives and futures have been saved and shaped by the *Roe v. Wade*
decision, and to march forward with purpose as we work together to
restore the right to choose. 

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
twentieth day of January, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-three, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-seventh.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
