---
date: '2023-01-31'
modified_time: 2023-01-31 11:17:29-05:00
published_time: 2023-01-31 11:17:28-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/01/31/a-proclamation-on-national-teen-dating-violence-awareness-and-prevention-month-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Teen Dating Violence Awareness And Prevention Month,\_\
  2023"
---
 
     Across America, young people are impacted by abusive relationships,
suffering in silence as they are threatened with or subjected to
physical violence, sexual violence, psychological aggression, or
stalking from a current or former intimate partner.  During National
Teen Dating Violence Awareness and Prevention Month, we bring this
scourge out of the shadows, recommit to promoting healthy relationships,
and join together with a clear message to survivors:  You are not alone.
 Support is close by, and justice is within reach.

     Each year, around 12 percent of American high schoolers experience
physical or sexual violence at the hands of an intimate partner.  Young
women, transgender teens, and gender nonconforming youth are
disproportionately affected.  Dating violence can also occur on social
media, online, and through other electronic communication in the form of
cyberstalking, non-consensual distribution of intimate images, and other
technology-facilitated harms.  This trauma not only affects survivors’
health, safety, and aspirations as teenagers — it can also follow them
into adulthood and increase the risk of violence in future
relationships.

     When we teach teens about healthy, nonviolent relationships, we
support their development and create safer, healthier communities for
everyone.  That is why my Administration is advancing efforts by the
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to provide training for
educators, families, and community members to teach young people how to
form healthy relationships and leave abusive ones.  These tools can be
found at VetoViolence.CDC.gov.  My Task Force to Address Online
Harassment and Abuse is also committed to addressing ways that
technology can be used to cause harm, including as a form of dating
violence among young people.  Additionally, in 2022 I worked with the
Congress to reauthorize and strengthen the Violence Against Women Act,
including enhancing grant programs and increasing funding for non-profit
organizations, Tribes, and local governments that are working to reduce
and address teen dating violence. 

     By recognizing the signs of dating and domestic violence, setting
positive examples of healthy relationships that lift up instead of tear
down, and making clear that abuses of power are never acceptable, we can
build a culture where respect is the norm, dignity is the rule, and
safety is the expectation — both online and offline.  We can measure up
to the standards of equality, opportunity, and justice that define our
Nation at its best.

     If you or someone you know is involved in an abusive relationship
of any kind, immediate and confidential support is available through the
National Domestic Violence Hotline’s project focused on supporting young
people by visiting loveisrespect.org, calling 1-866-331-9474 (TTY:
1-800-787-3224), or texting “LOVEIS” to 22522.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
February 2023 as National Teen Dating Violence Awareness and Prevention
Month.  I call upon everyone to educate themselves and others about teen
dating violence so that together we can stop it.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
thirty-first day of January, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-three, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-seventh.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
