---
date: '2023-01-31'
modified_time: 2023-01-31 10:54:44-05:00
published_time: 2023-01-31 10:54:43-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/01/31/a-proclamation-on-national-black-history-month-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Black History Month,\_2023"
---
 
   During National Black History Month, we celebrate the legacy of Black
Americans whose power to lead, to overcome, and to expand the meaning
and practice of American democracy has helped our Nation become a more
fair and just society.  This country was established upon the profound
but simple idea that all people are created equal and should be treated
equally throughout their lives. 

     It is an idea America has never fully lived up to, but it is an
idea we have never fully walked away from either.  The struggles and
challenges of the Black American story to make a way out of no way have
been the crucible where our resolve to fulfill this vision has most
often been tested.  Black Americans’ struggles for freedom, equal
treatment, and the right to vote; for equal opportunities in education,
housing, and the workplace; for economic opportunity, equal justice, and
political representation; and so much more have reformed our democracy
far beyond its founding.  Black Americans have made a way not only for
themselves but also have helped build a highway for millions of women,
immigrants, other historically marginalized communities, and all
Americans to more fully experience the benefits of our society.

     From the start, the Biden-Harris Administration has been committed
to using the power of the Federal Government to address the
long-standing disparities that have hampered the progress of Black
communities.  On day one of my Presidency, I issued an Executive Order
to advance equity and racial justice in every policy we pursue.  I began
by appointing the most diverse Cabinet in American history.  I have
continued to nominate a historic number of Black judges to the Federal
bench — including Justice Ketanji Brown Jackson, the first Black woman
to serve on the Supreme Court.

     During the height of the COVID-19 crisis, my Administration
provided relief to hardworking families, which cut the rate of poverty
in Black American communities by nearly a third and cut the rate of
poverty among Black children by more than half.  My health care policies
have dramatically increased health care access and reduced costs for
Black American families and capped insulin bills for seniors at $35 per
month per prescription.

     We are also working to address centuries of neglected
infrastructure in Black American communities.  My Administration is
leading the replacement of lead pipes embedded in cities across America
so that every child can safely turn on the faucet and drink clean
water.  We are expanding public transit and providing high-speed
Internet to every neighborhood in the country so parents can get to work
and children can do their homework in the comfort of their own homes. 

     We are using every avenue to confront racial discrimination in
housing and in mortgage lending and to help build generational wealth in
Black communities.  We are working to ensure that any housing agency
that receives Federal funds will reach beyond the simple promise not to
discriminate and will instead take meaningful, affirmative steps to
overcome historic patterns of segregation, giving every person a fair
chance to live where they choose.  We are addressing the negative
impacts of redlining and other forms of financial discrimination.  And
we are working to end a discriminatory system of appraisals that assigns
lesser values to Black-owned family homes than to similar homes owned by
white families. 

     Additionally, we have invested nearly $6 billion in Historically
Black Colleges and Universities.  We have also taken historic action to
ease the burden of crippling student debt — action which benefits so
many Black students and families.  I am proud to have permanently
authorized the Minority Business Development Agency and to have given it
expanded authority to help grow Black-owned businesses.  I have set a
goal to increase the share of Federal contracting dollars going to small
disadvantaged businesses by 50 percent by 2025, which will bring up to
an additional $100 billion in capital to these businesses.

     In May 2022, I signed an Executive Order promoting effective,
accountable, and transparent community policing — delivering the most
significant police reform in decades.  Among other important measures
that increase transparency and accountability, it raises policing
standards by banning choke holds, restricting no knock warrants, and
requiring body-worn cameras on patrols and during searches and arrests.
 It creates a new national law enforcement database to track records of
misconduct, and it aims to safely reduce incarceration, support
rehabilitation and reentry, and address racial disparities in our
criminal justice system.  Additionally, I signed three new hate crime
bills, including the Emmett Till Antilynching Act which finally made
lynching a Federal crime.

     Equal access to the ballot box is the beating heart of our
democracy.  Without it, nothing is possible; with it, anything is.  I
restored the Civil Rights Division of the Department of Justice,
appointing top attorneys to oversee enforcement of civil rights laws,
and the Department has doubled the voting rights enforcement staff. 
Every agency of my Administration has been ordered to expand access to
voter registration and election information.  These are all important
steps, but I will continue to push the Congress to repair the damage to
voting rights in this country by passing the John Lewis Voting Rights
Advancement and Freedom to Vote Acts, to ensure every American has a
voice in the democratic process.

     This year, on what would have been Dr. King’s 94th birthday, I was
honored to be the first sitting President to deliver a sermon at Sunday
service at his cherished Ebenezer Baptist Church in Atlanta.  The life
of Dr. King demonstrates that democracy is an enduring covenant that
must be persistently renewed; nothing about it is guaranteed.  During
National Black History Month, we honor and continue the work of Black
Americans who have created a more fair and inclusive democracy, helping
our Nation move closer to the realization of its full promise for
everyone. 

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
February 2023 as National Black History Month.  I call upon public
officials, educators, librarians, and all the people of the United
States to observe this month with relevant programs, ceremonies, and
activities.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
thirty-first day of January, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-three, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-seventh.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
