---
date: '2024-02-08'
modified_time: 2024-02-08 14:36:45-05:00
published_time: 2024-02-08 15:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/02/08/president-biden-announces-key-nominees-66/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key\_Nominees"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
the following individuals to serve as key leaders in his Administration:

-   Sarah Baker, Nominee to be General Counsel, Department of
    Transportation
-   Emily Edenshaw, Nominee to be a Member on the National Council on
    the Humanities
-   Margaret FitzPatrick, Nominee to be a Member on the National Council
    on the Humanities
-   Deborah Willis, Nominee to be a Member on the National Council on
    the Humanities

**<u>Sarah Baker, Nominee to be General Counsel, Department of
Transportation</u>**

Sarah Baker currently serves as the Principal Deputy General Counsel of
the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT), after previously serving as
the Department’s Deputy General Counsel and Senior Counsel to the
General Counsel.

Before joining DOT, Baker served as the founding President and Executive
Director of We The Action, a digital platform used by lawyers nationwide
to volunteer with leading nonprofit organizations. Baker also served as
Associate Counsel and Special Assistant to President Obama in the Office
of White House Counsel. Additionally, from 2013 to 2015, she was Senior
Policy Director to Dr. Jill Biden and prior to that served as Deputy
Associate Counsel until 2013 in the Obama administration.

Earlier in her career, Baker was a member of the White Collar and
Investigations group at the Washington, D.C. office of Hogan Lovells
LLP, eventually becoming the Senior Associate in charge of the firm’s
U.S. Pro Bono practice. Baker graduated from Rutgers College, with
highest honors and received her J.D. from the University of Virginia
School of Law, where she served as Student Bar Association President.

**<u>**<u>Emily Edenshaw, Nominee to be a Member on the National Council
on the Humanities</u>**</u>**

Emily Edenshaw (Yup’ik and Iñupiaq) is the President and CEO of the
Alaska Native Heritage Center (ANHC), one of America’s Cultural
Treasures and a renowned statewide living cultural center dedicated to
advancing all Alaska Native cultures and peoples. With roots in Emmonak,
Alaska, Edenshaw was adopted into the St’langng Laanas Thunderbird Raven
clan in Old Massett, Haida Gwaii. She is a proud Tribal Citizen of the
Native Village of Emmonak Tribal Citizen and a Doyon Limited and Calista
Corporation shareholder.

Outside her leadership role at ANHC, Edenshaw actively serves on boards
like the Anchorage Coalition to End Homelessness, Native Americans in
Philanthropy, and the Joint Base Elmendorf-Richardson (JBER) Civic
Advisory Board. Edenshaw is a committed sixth-year Ph.D. student at the
University of Alaska Fairbanks, researching Alaska Native Boarding
School experiences and healing strategies related to these experiences.
She holds an Executive MBA from Alaska Pacific University and a
Bachelor’s in Journalism and Strategic Communications from the
University of Alaska Anchorage. Her diverse career includes impactful
contributions to Central Council Tlingit & Haida Indian Tribes of
Alaska, First Alaskans Institute, Alyeska Pipeline Service Company,
Southcentral Foundation, and Alaska Communications, to name a few.

Edenshaw lives in Anchorage with her family and enjoys traveling to
other Indigenous communities across the country. Edenshaw’s Yup’ik name,
Keneggnarkayaaggaq, translates to a person with a beautiful persona,
spirit, aura, and friend, while her Xaad kil (Haida) name, Tl’áa Kihl
X̱ánj, translates to “The People’s Echo.”

**<u>Margaret FitzPatrick, Nominee to be a Member on the National
Council on the Humanities</u>**

Margaret (Maggie) FitzPatrick is a top corporate affairs leader who has
spent her career working to strengthen engagement between businesses and
communities. She is the founder of FitzPatrick & Co., and previously
served in the c-suite of multiple Fortune 200 companies. In several of
these roles, she was responsible for the oversight of corporate
foundations providing millions of dollars in grant funding to arts and
community organizations across the United States.

In 2023, FitzPatrick completed a three-year appointment to the D.C.
Commission on the Arts and Humanities, where she served as Vice Chair of
the Commission and Chair of the Public Arts Committee. A long-time
supporter of the arts and humanities, FitzPatrick is a past trustee of
Arena Stage at the Mead Center for American Theater. She has extensive
experience serving on non-profit and publicly traded company boards. She
is currently a director at two NASDAQ-listed companies and was recently
named to the expert faculty of the National Association of Corporate
Directors (NACD) Board Advisory Services. 

FitzPatrick has been featured in business media on topics related to
effective leadership and governance and was a speaker at the 2022 and
2023 NACD Annual Summits. She is an active member of the organization
Women Executive on Boards and has been steadfast in her support of
programs designed to help women succeed in business. She holds an M.A.
in Public Policy from The George Washington University and a B.A. in
English and Policy Studies from Syracuse University. She completed the
Harvard Business School Board Directorship Program and is a certified
NACD director. FitzPatrick was born and raised in Delaware, and now
resides in Washington, D.C. with her family.

**<u>Deborah Willis, Nominee to be a Member on the National Council on
the Humanities</u>**

Deborah Willis is a Professor and Chair of the Department of Photography
and Imaging at the Tisch School of the Arts at New York University. She
is also a recipient of MacArthur and Guggenheim fellowships and a member
of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, as well as the author of
*The Black Civil War Soldier: A Visual History of Conflict and
Citizenship and Posing Beauty: African American Images from the 1890s to
the Present*, among other books. Willis’s curated exhibitions include
Framing Moments: Photography from the Kalamazoo Institute of Arts;
Migrations and Meaning(s) in Art  at Maryland Institute College of Art,
Let Your Motto Be Resistance: African American Portraits at the
International Center of Photography, and Out \[o\] Fashion Photography:
and Reframing Beauty: Intimate Moments at Indiana University.

   
   
   

\###
