---
date: '2024-02-23'
modified_time: 2024-02-22 16:01:01-05:00
published_time: 2024-02-23 15:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/02/23/president-biden-announces-key-appointments-to-boards-and-commissions-33/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key Appointments to Boards and\_Commissions"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Biden announced his intent to appoint the
following individuals as members of the Advisory Committee for Trade
Policy and Negotiations:

-   Mitchell W. Berger
-   J. Michael Bowman
-   Amy Bircher Bruyn
-   Paige Gebhardt Cognetti
-   Chris James
-   Omar Khan
-   Rob Larew
-   Nimish Patel
-   Mark A. Turner

**<u>Advisory Committee for Trade Policy and Negotiations</u>**

The Advisory Committee for Trade Policy and Negotiations is an advisory
committee established to provide overall policy advice to the United
States Trade Representative on matters arising in connection with the
development, implementation, and administration of the trade policy of
the United States including: negotiating objectives and bargaining
positions before entering into trade agreements, the impact of the
implementation of trade agreements, matters concerning the operation of
any trade agreement once entered into, and other matters arising in
connection with the development, implementation, and administration of
the trade policy of the United States. The Committee includes up to 45
members recommended by the U.S. Trade Representative who are appointed
by the President and have expertise in general trade, investment, and
development issues, including representatives of non-federal
governments, labor, industry, agriculture, small business, service
industries, retailers, nongovernmental environmental and conservation
organizations, and consumer interests.

**Mitchell W. Berger**

Mitchell W. Berger founded Berger Singerman LLP, a business law firm in
Florida, in 1985, and has over 40 years of successful representation in
commercial disputes for small businesses, medium-sized businesses, and
Fortune 500 companies. Berger has received numerous industry accolades,
including being named Co-Lawyer of the Year by the *National Law
Journal* and being recognized by *Chambers & Partners USA* for 14
consecutive years.

Committed to furthering innovation in the legal industry, Berger
established the Sharon and Mitchell W. Berger Entrepreneur Law Clinic at
Nova Southeastern University’s (NSU) Shepard Broad College of Law. The
clinic enables NSU to provide direct legal service to nonprofit
organizations, students, and researchers associated with the NSU Center
for Collaborative Research and innovators in the technology and life
sciences communities. Berger currently serves as a member of the Board
of Trustees of NSU.

Berger previously represented then-Vice President Al Gore and
then-Senator Joe Lieberman in lawsuits following the aftermath of the
2000 presidential election. He also served as Chair of the Student Loan
Marketing Association Sallie Mae, Commissioner on the Florida
Environmental Regulation Commission, a member of the United States Small
Business Administration Advisory Board, and a member of the
Environmental Financial Advisory Board to the United States
Environmental Protection Agency. Berger currently serves on the
Independent Audit Committee for the Alliance for Climate Protection. He
received his B.A., *magna cum laude*, from Lafayette College and his
J.D. from Temple University.

**J. Michael Bowman**

J. Michael Bowman is the Associate Director of the Office of Economic
Innovation and Partnerships at the University of Delaware. He holds two
additional leadership roles, serving as Founder and CEO/President of the
Delaware Technology Park and as the State Director of the Small Business
Development Center. Over the past 25 years, Bowman has led the growth of
a robust technology-based ecosystem and assisted a variety of small
businesses to thrive throughout Delaware.

**Amy Bircher Bruyn**

As CEO and Founder of MMI Textiles, Inc. Amy Bircher Bruyn leads her
team in sales and product development. She is the Immediate Past
Chairman of the Advanced Textiles Association. In 2016, Bircher Bruyn
invented and filed a design and utility patent for the creation of
CTEdge, a concealed edge technology used in webbing and tape within the
military and law enforcement markets. She recently opened her own narrow
weaving facility in Lenoir, North Carolina to produce her patented
webbing product and other military spec webbing to support the needs of
our military and tactical markets. Bircher Bruyn has over 40 years of
experience in the U.S. textile industry and supplies her products all
over the world. She has successfully acquired three other textile
businesses since founding MMI Textiles.

Bircher Bruyn received a B.S. in Textiles and Clothing from West
Virginia University (WVU). While advancing her career and the industry
she loves, Bircher Bruyn has stayed connected to her roots, sharing what
she knows with others as a part of the Visiting Committee at WVU. Most
recently, she pledged $200,000 to her alma mater for the development of
a new textile lab, which opened on April 17, 2021, and is named the Amy
A. Bircher Textile Laboratory.

**Paige Gebhardt Cognetti**

Paige Gebhardt Cognetti was sworn in as Mayor of Scranton, Pennsylvania
in January 2020, and was re-elected to a full term in November 2021.
Cognetti’s background is rooted in government oversight, investment
management, international relations, and political campaigns. She serves
on the Advisory Board of the U.S. Conference of Mayors and chairs the
Conference’s Metro Economies Standing Committee. She serves on the
boards of numerous other local leadership organizations, supporting
fellow elected officials nationwide in promoting economic mobility,
environmental sustainability, and efficient, transparent government.

Prior to becoming Mayor, she advised the Pennsylvania Auditor General,
served as a Director on the Scranton School Board, and worked in wealth
management at Goldman Sachs. Cognetti served in the U.S. Treasury
Department during the Obama-Biden Administration as a Senior Advisor to
the Under Secretary for International Affairs and as Managing Director
for China Operations.

Cognetti graduated *summa cum laude* from the University of Oregon Clark
Honors College with a B.A. in English Literature and holds an M.B.A.
from Harvard Business School. She lives in Scranton with her husband and
their two daughters.

**Chris James**

Chris James is the President and CEO of The National Center for American
Indian Enterprise Development, the premier organization focused on
American Indian and Alaska Native economic development. James is an
expert in the Indigenous economy, Native American policy, supply chains,
and rural economic development. His expertise is enriched by his
personal experience, having grown up with his family’s businesses on the
Qualla Boundary, the home of the Eastern Band of Cherokee Indians.

Under his leadership, The National Center has flourished, tripling its
revenue and expanding its reach significantly. James spearheads both the
Reservation Economic Summit, the world’s largest conference focused on
Native American economic development, and the Native Edge Institute
series, which equips entrepreneurs with essential skills for success.
His tenure has seen a heightened emphasis on international Indigenous
trade and connecting Native businesses with corporate America.

James’ professional background is marked by senior roles in the U.S.
Department of Treasury and the U.S. Small Business Administration. In
these capacities, he led initiatives like Supplier Pay and Startup in a
Day, both designed to enhance business efficiency and entrepreneurship.
Supplier Pay focused on accelerating payments to small business
suppliers, while Startup in a Day aimed to streamline the process for
entrepreneurs to start a business in just one day. James is known as an
expert and versatile leader in rural America. His engagements span
delivering keynote addresses to hosting discussions with notable
experts. Additionally, he is a skilled panel leader at both large and
small global conferences.

**Omar Khan**

Omar Khan is a senior government and public affairs executive with more
than 20 years of experience across the public and private sector and
political campaigns. With a proven track record managing budgets
exceeding $48 million and teams of over 200, Khan excels in building
coalitions and implementing effective engagement strategies across a
diverse range of policy issues and campaigns.

Khan serves as the Senior Vice President for State and Local Government
Affairs at WSP, one of the world’s leading engineering and
infrastructure firms, where he heads strategy, government relations, and
political and civic engagement for the East Region of the U.S.
Previously, he was the Executive Director of the Public Engagement Unit
of New York City, where he led the unit, overseeing a $25 million budget
and managing a team of more than 200 people. In this role, Khan served
as senior advisor to City Hall, led the unit’s COVID-19 response, and
developed a nationally replicable model for data-driven outreach,
increasing accessibility to government services.

Khan held several senior roles in the Obama-Biden Administration working
on complex issues at the intersection of policy and politics, including
serving as the Assistant United States Trade Representative for the
Office of Intergovernmental Affairs and Public Engagement at the White
House, Director of Congressional and Intergovernmental Relations for the
Hurricane Sandy Rebuilding Task Force, and Director of Public Engagement
at the Environmental Protection Agency. Khan is also a nationally
recognized campaign operative who has held senior and advisory roles in
major presidential, gubernatorial, and mayoral campaigns including
President Obama’s 2008 and 2012 presidential campaigns.

**Rob Larew**

Rob Larew is President of National Farmers Union (NFU), the nation’s
foremost grassroots agriculture organization dedicated to supporting and
empowering family farmers, ranchers, and their communities. Elected to
lead the organization in 2020, Larew previously served as NFU Vice
President of Public Policy and Communications.

Larew’s career includes more than two decades working in Congress and at
the U.S. Department of Agriculture, where he played a pivotal role in
shaping and implementing agriculture policy. As Staff Director of the
U.S. House Committee on Agriculture, he coordinated and oversaw key
initiatives during the formulation of the 2008 and 2014 Farm Bills.

Larew’s lifelong connection to agriculture began, and continues, in
Greenville, West Virginia, where he actively participates in the
management of a diversified family farm that has been in continuous
operation since 1798. He received his B.S. in dairy science from
Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University and pursued graduate
studies in agronomy at Pennsylvania State University. Larew also serves
as an active board member of the Cultivating Change Foundation and
Consumer Federation of America.

**Nimish Patel**

Nimish Patel is the Chair of the Corporate and Securities Department at
Mitchell Silberberg & Knupp, LLP, a law firm based in Los Angeles, New
York, and Washington, D.C. Patel’s experience includes mergers and
acquisitions for private and public companies, angel and venture capital
financing, IPOs, and other financing and corporate restructurings. Patel
currently advises private businesses and publicly traded exchange listed
companies on governance and regulatory filing requirements. Patel’s
clients are from across a broad range of industries and sectors
including artificial intelligence, life sciences, technology, ecommerce,
new media, and entertainment.

Previously, Patel was a CPA and a senior auditor in the Orange County,
California office of Deloitte working on private and public company
audits and other attestations services. Patel’s clients ranged from
private closely held businesses to Fortune 500 publicly traded
corporations and was involved in many complex transactions including
restructurings and cross border transactions.

Patel was elected and previously served on the School Board of Education
for the Santa Monica-Malibu Unified School District. During his tenure,
Patel was involved in making education policy decisions affecting the
11,000 school district students, overseeing a $100 million operating
budget and a $300 million capital expenditure budget. He is the Past
President and Trustee of the American India Foundation in Los Angeles
and the Past President and member of the South Asian Bar Association of
Southern California. Patel received his J.D./M.B.A. degrees from
University of San Diego and undergraduate degree from University of
Southern California.

**Mark A. Turner**

Mark Turner is a member of the Boards of Trustees of Christiana Care
Health System (Delaware) and LaSalle University (Pennsylvania). He is
also a member of the Wharton Leadership Advisory Board and a Senior
Fellow at the Center for Leadership and Change Management at The Wharton
School, University of Pennsylvania. Turner is a frequent guest speaker
at universities and executive forums on banking, leadership, governance,
and innovation.

Turner helped lead WSFS Financial Corporation’s growth in size,
profitability, and market value of near 20 times each, and was CFO, COO,
CEO, and Executive Chair during his tenure. During his career, Turner
has also been a leader on numerous community, industry, and business
boards, including serving as Chair of the Delaware Bankers’ Association,
Chair of the Delaware Business Roundtable, and on the U.S. Federal
Reserve’s Advisory Council.

Turner was born and raised in North Philadelphia and received his B.S.
from LaSalle University, M.B.A. from University of Pennsylvania, and
M.A. from University of Nebraska-Lincoln. He has homes in Pennsylvania
and Delaware with his wife, Regina, and their two daughters.

\###
