---
date: '2024-02-28'
modified_time: 2024-02-28 13:01:33-05:00
published_time: 2024-02-28 05:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/02/28/fact-sheet-president-biden-issues-sweeping-executive-order-to-protect-americans-sensitive-personal-data/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: President\_Biden Issues Executive Order to Protect Americans\u2019\
  \ Sensitive Personal\_Data"
---
 
Today, President Biden will issue an Executive Order to protect
Americans’ sensitive personal data from exploitation by countries of
concern. The Executive Order, which marks the most significant executive
action any President has ever taken to protect Americans’ data security,
authorizes the Attorney General to prevent the large-scale transfer of
Americans’ personal data to countries of concern and provides safeguards
around other activities that can give those countries access to
Americans’ sensitive data.

The President’s Executive Order focuses on Americans’ most personal and
sensitive information, including genomic data, biometric data, personal
health data, geolocation data, financial data, and certain kinds of
personally identifiable information. Bad actors can use this data to
track Americans (including military service members), pry into their
personal lives, and pass that data on to other data brokers and foreign
intelligence services. This data can enable intrusive surveillance,
scams, blackmail, and other violations of privacy.

Companies are collecting more of Americans’ data than ever before, and
it is often legally sold and resold through data brokers. Commercial
data brokers and other companies can sell this data to countries of
concern, or entities controlled by those countries, and it can land in
the hands of foreign intelligence services, militaries, or companies
controlled by foreign governments.

The sale of Americans’ data raises significant privacy,
counterintelligence, blackmail risks and other national security
risks—especially for those in the military or national security
community.  Countries of concern can also access Americans’ sensitive
personal data to collect information on activists, academics,
journalists, dissidents, political figures, and members of
non-governmental organizations and marginalized communities to
intimidate opponents of countries of concern, curb dissent, and limit
Americans’ freedom of expression and other civil liberties. 

**<u>To protect Americans’ sensitive personal data, President Biden is
directing:</u>**

-   The Department of Justice to issue regulations that establish clear
    protections for Americans’ sensitive personal data from access and
    exploitation by countries of concern. These protections will extend
    to genomic data, biometric data, personal health data, geolocation
    data, financial data, and certain kinds of personal identifiers.
    They will prevent the large-scale transfer of that data to countries
    of concern—which have a track record of collecting and misusing data
    on Americans.

<!-- -->

-   The Department of Justice to issue regulations that establish
    greater protection of sensitive government-related data, including
    geolocation information on sensitive government sites and
    information about military members.

<!-- -->

-   The Departments of Justice and Homeland Security to work together to
    set high security standards to prevent access by countries of
    concern to Americans’ data through other commercial means, such as
    data available via investment, vendor, and employment relationships.

<!-- -->

-   The Departments of Health and Human Services, Defense, and Veterans
    Affairs to help ensure that Federal grants, contracts, and awards
    are not used to facilitate access to Americans’ sensitive health
    data by countries of concern, including via companies located in the
    United States.

<!-- -->

-   The Committee for the Assessment of Foreign Participation in the
    United States Telecommunications Services Sector (often called “Team
    Telecom”) to consider the threats to Americans’ sensitive personal
    data in its reviews of submarine cable licenses.

<!-- -->

-   That these activities do not stop the flow of information necessary
    for financial services activities or impose measures aimed at a
    broader decoupling of the substantial consumer, economic,
    scientific, and trade relationships that the United States has with
    other countries.

These actions not only align with the U.S.’ longstanding support for the
trusted free flow of data, but also are consistent with U.S.’ commitment
to an open Internet with strong and effective protections for
individuals’ privacy and measures to preserve governments’ abilities to
enforce laws and advance policies in the public interest. The
Administration will continue its engagements with stakeholders,
including technology companies and advocates for privacy, safety,
competition, labor, and human rights, to move forward in a way that
appropriately balances all these objectives.

The President has encouraged the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau to
consider taking steps, consistent with CFPB’s existing legal
authorities, to protect Americans from data brokers that are illegally
assembling and selling extremely sensitive data, including that of U.S.
military personnel.

Additionally, President Biden continues to urge Congress to do its part
and pass comprehensive bipartisan privacy legislation, especially to
protect the safety of our children.

\###
