---
date: '2024-02-01'
modified_time: 2024-02-01 11:30:22-05:00
published_time: 2024-02-01 15:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/02/01/president-biden-announces-key-nominees-65/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key\_Nominees"
---
 
**President Biden Announces Key Nominees**

WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
the following individuals to serve as key leaders in his Administration:

-   Rose E. Jenkins, Nominee to be a Judge on the United States Tax
    Court
-   Adam B. Landy, Nominee to be a Judge on the United States Tax Court
-   Kashi Way, Nominee to be a Judge on the United States Tax Court

**<u>Rose E. Jenkins, Nominee to be a Judge on the United States Tax
Court</u>**

Rose E. Jenkins has over 15 years of career experience as a tax lawyer,
and holds a broad-based expertise in the area, focusing particularly on
international tax law and administrative law issues. Jenkins is
currently an attorney in the Office of Associate Chief Counsel
(Procedure & Administration) at the Internal Revenue Service (IRS).
Previously, she was a Senior Attorney Advisor at the Tax Law Center at
New York University Law School from 2021 to 2023 and a Managing Director
in the international tax group within KPMG’s Washington National Tax
office from 2020 to 2021. Before KPMG, she was in the IRS Office of
Associate Chief Counsel (International), from 2013 to 2020, as an
Attorney, Senior Counsel, and finally a Special Counsel. Jenkins started
her career as an Associate at Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher, & Flom LLP,
where she worked from 2008 to 2013. She received her L.L.M. from New
York University Law School, her J.D. from the University of Texas School
of Law, as well as her M.A. and B.A. from Stanford University. She is a
member of the New York state bar and has previously served as a member
of the Executive Committee of the New York State Bar Association Tax
Section.****

**<u>Adam B. Landy, Nominee to be a Judge on the United States Tax
Court</u>**

Adam B. Landy has been a Special Trial Judge on the United States Tax
Court since 2021. Previously, Landy was a Senior Attorney with the IRS
Office of Chief Counsel in Baltimore, Maryland and San Francisco,
California from 2016 to 2021. Prior to that, he worked as an Associate
at McNair Law Firm, P.A., which later merged into Burr Forman, LLP, from
2010 to 2016. Landy briefly served as a Law Clerk for Judge J. Michelle
Childs on the South Carolina Circuit Court during the Summer of 2008. He
received his L.L.M from the Northwestern Pritzker School of Law, his
J.D. from the University of South Carolina School of Law in 2009, his
M.S. from the University of South Carolina in 2006, and his B.S. from
the University of South Carolina in 2004.

**<u>Kashi Way, Nominee to be a Judge on the United States Tax
Court</u>**

Kashi Way is a senior legislation counsel with the staff of the Joint
Committee on Taxation. He has been with the Committee since 2005. His
primary areas of responsibility include energy-related tax issues and
the research credit. Way also works on insurance tax issues, issues
relating to tax-exempt organizations, and geographically targeted tax
incentives. Way’s work, including markup documents, committee report
language, and technical explanations, has formed part of the legislative
history of the Energy Policy Act of 2005, the American Recovery and
Reinvestment Act of 2009, the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, the
Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022, and
many other pieces of major federal tax legislation enacted over the past
eighteen years. Prior to joining the staff, Way clerked at the U.S. Tax
Court and spent several years in private practice at Covington &
Burling. He studied law at the University of Virginia, has an M.A. from
Columbia University, and has a B.A. from the University of Southern
California.

   
   
   

\###
