---
date: '2024-02-27'
modified_time: 2024-02-26 20:53:10-05:00
published_time: 2024-02-27 05:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/02/27/fact-sheet-the-biden-harris-administration-announces-nearly-1-7-billion-in-new-commitments-cultivated-through-the-white-house-challenge-to-end-hunger-and-build-healthy-communities/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: The Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Announces Nearly $1.7 Billion\
  \ in New Commitments Cultivated Through the White\_House Challenge to End Hunger\
  \ and Build Healthy\_Communities"
---
 
Today, the Biden-Harris Administration is announcing 141 new bold
commitments from stakeholders across the nation, including health
systems, insurers, companies, non-profits, philanthropic groups,
academia, and local elected officials, who have stepped up as part of
the White House Challenge to End Hunger and Build Healthy Communities
(the Challenge). Second Gentleman Douglas Emhoff will announce the
commitments at an event at the White House today, alongside White House
Domestic Policy Advisor Neera Tanden; White House Office of Public
Engagement Director Stephen Benjamin; Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack;
and chef José Andrés and basketball player Elena Delle Donne, Chairs of
the President’s Council on Sports, Fitness, and Nutrition.  
  
The [Challenge](https://health.gov/our-work/nutrition-physical-activity/white-house-conference-hunger-nutrition-and-health/make-commitment) was
a nationwide call-to-action to stakeholders across all of society to
make commitments to advance President Biden’s goal to end hunger and
reduce diet-related diseases by 2030—all while reducing health
disparities. The $1.7 billion in new commitments announced today build
on the $8 billion in commitments
[announced](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/09/28/fact-sheet-the-biden-harris-administration-announces-more-than-8-billion-in-new-commitments-as-part-of-call-to-action-for-white-house-conference-on-hunger-nutrition-and-health/)
at the historic White House Conference on Hunger, Nutrition, and
Health—held for the first time in 50 years in September 2022—and
complements the Biden-Harris Administration’s work to implement
the [National Strategy on Hunger, Nutrition, and
Health](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/09/White-House-National-Strategy-on-Hunger-Nutrition-and-Health-FINAL.pdf).
The Biden-Harris Administration worked with the CDC Foundation to
cultivate commitments.  
  
The commitments announced today also build on the new partnership
between major sports leagues, players associations, and the President’s
Council on Sports, Fitness, and Nutrition (the Council) to boost
physical activity and increase nutrition programming across the country
that the Administration
[announced](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/02/08/fact-sheet-the-biden-harris-administration-announces-historic-partnership-with-major-sports-leagues-and-players-unions/)
earlier this month. Fourteen sports leagues and players associations
signed agreements with the Council to expand access to physical
activity, integrate messaging and education around nutrition, and
promote healthy lifestyles to the millions of people who engage in their
programs every year.  
  
New commitments include:  
  
**HARLEM GLOBETROTTERS**: The Harlem Globetrotters will begin a two-year
partnership with KABOOM! to lead a national public awareness campaign on
the important link between good nutrition and healthy physical activity.
Across six cities, they will host events designed to generate awareness
about the importance of nutrition, engage public health and community.
This campaign will be in addition to other Globetrotter public outreach
efforts in 50 cities across the country.  
  
**THE CITIES OF CLEVELAND, OH; MAYWOOD, IL; BATON ROUGE, LA; EAST HAVEN,
CT; DEARBORN, MI; SEATTLE, WA; MILWAUKEE, WI; HARPERWOOD, MI; ROCHESTER,
MN; SALEM, MA; COLUMBIA, SC; DOUGLASVILLE, GA; LITTLE ROCK, AR; EARLE,
AR; FRANKFORT, IL; and HOUSTON, TX** are taking action in their
communities, including by launching a task force and/or create an action
plan to end hunger and reduce diet-related diseases in their communities
by 2030.  
  
**AHOLD DELHAIZE USA**: Ahold Delhaize USA and its local brands are
accelerating their work to support nutrition education for children with
a new commitment to invest almost $1 million to reach more than 200,000
children with nutrition messaging in 2024. Ahold Delhaize USA’s local
brands, including Food Lion, Giant Food, The GIANT Company, Hannaford,
and Stop & Shop, will leverage new and existing programs to share the
benefits of good nutrition with socioeconomically diverse children
across its retail operating area in 18 states and the District of
Columbia. They will also address the root cause of hunger by supporting
food security through employment opportunities, connecting with
non-profit organizations, regional food banks and food pantries to
provide information on hiring events and job opportunities.  
  
**ASCENSION**: Ascension will focus on identifying, engaging and
addressing Social Determinants of Health (SDoH) needs impacting health
equity with an emphasis on high-poverty and vulnerable communities,
maternal and infant health, cancer screening disparities, and the
Ascension workforce. Ascension will increase workforce access to fresh,
affordable produce by providing hospital-based produce markets in 100%
of their sites of care currently offering food retail locations (139
hospitals across 19 states) and a food choice architecture system to
raise awareness of healthier food options. By 2030, patients and
communities served by Ascension will experience comprehensive and
integrated SDoH screening and closed-loop referral processes; expanded
access to emergency food resources across sites of care through a
community-based organizations partnership network; and a robust
Community Health Ministry footprint across their network.  
  
**BLUE CROSS BLUE SHIELD OF NORTH CAROLINA**: Blue Cross Blue Shield of
North Carolina will expand its one-on-one nutrition coaching and
twice-monthly healthy food delivery pilot to be a standard benefit for
its members, along with overseeing pilot programs designed to measure
the impact of the company’s direct-to-member services on non-medical
drivers of health that impact North Carolinians’ overall wellbeing. They
will gather their own data and evaluate the effectiveness and immediacy
of programs designed to alleviate food insecurity and foster behavioral
change that can improve or even reverse diet-related chronic conditions.
Blue Cross NC will share their results with the aim of informing other
payers and the health care industry about the impacts and benefits of
similar practices.  
  
**FOOD FORWARD**: Food Forward, a produce recovery and hunger relief
nonprofit, will recover 290 million pounds of fresh fruits and
vegetables that would otherwise go to waste, and distribute this surplus
free of charge to people experiencing food insecurity. Food Forward team
members and volunteers recover fruits and vegetables that would have
otherwise been wasted from backyard fruit trees, public orchards,
farmers markets, and other outlets. By increasing its current annual
recovery volume from 80 million to 100 million pounds by 2026, Food
Forward will provide 1.6 billion more servings of fresh fruits and
vegetables to historically underserved communities. At the same time,
this recovery will prevent emissions of more than 250,000 metric tons of
CO2 equivalent.  
  
**GAPLES INSTITUTE NUTRITION AND LIFESTYLE EDUCATION**: Gaples
Institute, the developer of a nutrition science course for health
professionals currently required in the curriculum of a number of
medical schools, commits to offering to 100 additional U.S. medical
schools and health professional training programs a newly developed
comprehensive package of nutrition education resources centered around
the Gaples Institute’s nutrition science course for clinicians. Priority
will be given to medical schools and training programs in underserved
areas. The Gaples Institute commits to provide partnering institutions
with reduced registration fees for entire health professional classes,
free train-the-trainer sessions, and an extensive array of free
educational support resources. This national initiative will prepare the
next generation of clinicians to equitably incorporate nutrition into
transformative medical care.  
  
**HIGHMARK HEALTH AND ALLEGHENY HEALTH NETWORK**: Highmark Health and
Allegheny Health Network will mobilize more than $30 million through
2030 in alignment with the five pillars of the National Strategy across
Delaware, New York, Pennsylvania, West Virginia and beyond. In the next
two years Highmark Health entities will: Conduct over 1 million
assessments with patients and members to identify and address
non-medical barriers to health, including food insecurity; expand the
capacity of six Healthy Food Centers, or food pharmacies, in six
Allegheny Health Network hospitals to offer nutrition education and
counseling to more than 20,000 individuals; and more than double the
number of individuals assisted through a multi-sector food insecurity
collaborative in rural Appalachia.  
  
**HOMEPLATE SOLUTIONS:** Working with private and public entities,
Homeplate Solutions has developed an AI-enabled technology and
integrated dietary management platform that will provide greater
affordability and food accessibility to 20,000 Community-based Nutrition
Providers in 600 governmental jurisdictions. This convergence includes
Sysco, Inc.; Valify Solutions Group – a division of HealthTrust;
Foodbuy, LLC; R4 Technologies, Inc.; Other Half Processing, SBC; and
AbundaBox, LLC. Homeplate Solutions aligns the purchasing leverage and
dietary support of leading healthcare nutrition management systems to
lessen the impact of food inflation, create sustainable supply chains,
end food deserts, and decrease other systemic inequities that hurt
vulnerable people. Homeplate has a combined 5-year, $174 million
investment from stakeholders, with an initial capital injection of $5.6
million to implement the program at no cost to community providers.  
  
**NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF CHRONIC DISEASE DIRECTORS (NACDD)**: NACDD
commits $2 million to improving physical activity, nutrition, and
reducing chronic and diet-related diseases across the nation by
implementing health equity trainings for a minimum of 2,500
professionals; installing volunteers in 20 State Health Departments to
support food insecurity and physical activity efforts; recognizing 10
hospitals or health systems for complying with the Food Service
Guidelines for Federal Facilities; providing technical assistance to 400
professionals to promote arthritis-appropriate evidence-based physical
activity interventions; providing 12 training and workforce development
programs to over 50 states on food insecurity, active transportation,
and social connection; and engaging 12 states and 26 school districts in
evidence-based policies, practices, and programs focused on the physical
and emotional well-being of students and staff.  
  
A full list of commitments can be found
[here](https://health.gov/sites/default/files/2024-02/White%20House%20Challenge%20Commitments.pdf).  
  
The National Strategy sets out a playbook to meet the President’s goal
and calls for a whole-of-government approach to address hunger and
diet-related diseases. Some of the actions the Biden-Harris
Administration has taken since launching the Challenge include:  

-   The Department of Agriculture
    (USDA) [invested](https://www.usda.gov/media/press-releases/2023/08/07/usda-invests-nearly-30-million-boost-school-nutrition-264-small)
    nearly $30 million in American Rescue Plan funding to 264 school
    districts to support them in improving the nutritional quality of
    their meals and modernizing their operations— the largest targeted
    investment USDA has ever made for school meal programs in small and
    rural communities;
-   USDA
    [finalized](https://www.usda.gov/media/press-releases/2023/09/26/usda-expands-access-school-breakfast-and-lunch-more-students)
    a rule that gives an estimated 3,000 more school districts in
    high-need areas the option to make healthy school meals available to
    all students at no cost to their families during the school year;
-   USDA provided an unprecedented level of guidance and support to
    ensure that States, Territories, and Tribes were well prepared to
    operate the new Summer Electronic Benefit Transfer Program for
    Children (Summer EBT), enabling 37 States, the District of Columbia,
    all five U.S. Territories, and three Tribal Nations to plan to be
    the first to launch the new, permanent summer grocery benefits
    program for children that is expected to serve 21 million kids
    nationwide this summer, with more states expected to implement in
    2025;
-   The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) conducted a study to inform a
    proposed rule to standardize a front-of-package system for food
    packages to help consumers, particularly those with lower nutrition
    knowledge, quickly and easily identify foods that can help them
    build a healthy eating pattern;
-   The Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) released the [U.S.
    Playbook](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/11/SDOH-Playbook-4.pdf)
    to Address the Social Determinants of Health, which includes a set
    of framework actions that federal agencies will undertake to address
    unmet social needs-like the impact of housing and education on
    hunger and diet-related diseases;
-   HHS released
    [guidance](https://www.medicaid.gov/sites/default/files/2023-11/cib11162023.pdf)
    for states on what health related social needs services and supports
    are
    [allowable](https://www.medicaid.gov/sites/default/files/2023-11/hrsn-coverage-table.pdf)
    under Medicaid and CHIP, including specific nutrition services;
-   HHS approved new ground-breaking Medicaid section 1115 demonstration
    initiatives in Massachusetts, [New
    York](https://www.cms.gov/newsroom/press-releases/cms-approves-new-yorks-groundbreaking-section-1115-demonstration-amendment-improve-primary-care),
    [New
    Jersey](https://www.medicaid.gov/sites/default/files/2023-03/nj-1115-cms-exten-demnstr-aprvl-03302023.pdf),
    [Oregon](https://www.cms.gov/newsroom/press-releases/hhs-approves-groundbreaking-medicaid-initiatives-massachusetts-and-oregon),
    and
    [Washington](https://www.medicaid.gov/sites/default/files/2023-06/wa-medicaid-transformation-ca-06302023.pdf)
    to test coverage of services such as
    [evidence](https://www.cms.gov/newsroom/press-releases/hhs-approves-groundbreaking-medicaid-initiatives-massachusetts-and-oregon)-based
    nutritional assistance, medically tailored meals, other
    health-related social needs for individuals with Medicaid; and
-   HHS issued the [physician fee schedule
    rule](https://www.cms.gov/medicare/payment/fee-schedules/physician)
    that finalizes codes and additional payment for Social Determinants
    of Health risk assessments, allows diabetes self-management training
    to be conducted via telehealth, and allows registered dieticians to
    bill for diabetes self-management training.

\###
