---
date: '2024-02-09'
published_time: 2024-02-09 11:21:05-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/02/09/statement-from-nsc-spokesperson-adrienne-watson-on-u-s-unwavering-support-for-ecuador/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement from NSC Spokesperson Adrienne Watson on U.S. Unwavering Support\
  \ for\_Ecuador"
---
 
Over the past few weeks, the NSC has been coordinating U.S. Government
support for the people of Ecuador in the wake of increased violence. 
This week, Assistant Secretary of State for the Bureau of International
Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs (INL) Todd D. Robinson led a joint
Department of State and Department of Justice delegation to Ecuador to
highlight the United States’ continued commitment to supporting Ecuador
in its fight against transnational criminal organizations.  Assistant
Secretary Robinson announced INL funding for the construction of the
Ecuadorian Coast Guard Academy, a renovated canine veterinary clinic, a
renovated office for the corruption prosecution unit, and eight mobile
border units to support an elite border task force. 
He also helped launch a joint National Police-Coast Guard operational
unit in Guayaquil, which will increase information sharing and
operational coordination on Ecuador’s waterways.  Assistant Secretary
Robinson’s visit to Ecuador reflects the United States’
enduring continued commitment to support Ecuador’s security and
prosperity. 

In addition, we have surged our law enforcement and defense support for
Ecuadorian Forces.  The Department of Homeland Security is actively
providing digital forensics support to identify, map, and target
criminal networks; has sent a team to train 175 Ecuador migration
officers on the use of biometrics collection; and trained 35 members
from the Ecuadorian Presidential and Vice-Presidential protective
details.  The Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) increased its
personnel in-country following the recent rise in violence.
Meanwhile, Department of Justice attorneys, as well as agents from the
FBI and Drug Enforcement Agency, continue to support Ecuador’s
investigations into recent political and gang violence.  The Department
of Defense has also committed to delivering a C-130H military plane to
the Ecuadorians by the end of March 2024.  This support builds on
the facilitated delivery of more than 20,000 bullet proof vests and more
than $1 million worth of critical security and emergency response
equipment, [announced
in January](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/01/22/readout-of-president-bidens-special-advisor-for-the-americas-and-southcom-commanders-trip-to-ecuador/).

Earlier this week, Treasury
also [designated](https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/jy2082) one
of Ecuador’s most violent gangs, *Los Choneros*, and its leader, José
Adolfo Macías Villamar, pursuant to its counter narcotic authorities – a
response to the steep rise in violence in Ecuador attributed to the
actions of *Los Choneros* and other drug trafficking gangs in the
country. 

Looking forward, the United States is investing in a $45 million program
to reduce childhood malnutrition, increase access to clean drinking
water, and improve sanitation; providing $13 million in equipment to
protect the Ecuadorian Ministry of Defense computer networks; and $2.4
million in additional vehicles and security equipment to support the
work of police in Ecuador.

\###
