---
date: '2024-02-09'
published_time: 2024-02-09 18:31:53-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/02/09/readout-of-president-joe-bidens-meeting-with-chancellor-olaf-scholz-of-germany-2/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of President Joe\_Biden\u2019s Meeting with Chancellor Olaf Scholz\
  \ of\_Germany"
---
 
President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. welcomed Chancellor Olaf Scholz of
Germany to the White House today to continue their close coordination on
shared priorities.  President Biden and Chancellor Scholz reaffirmed
their resolute support for Ukraine in its struggle against Russia’s war
of aggression.  The President commended Germany’s exemplary
contributions to Ukraine’s self-defense, and Chancellor Scholz
emphasized the significance of sustained U.S. support.  The leaders
discussed efforts to prevent regional escalation in the Middle
East, and reaffirmed their commitment to Israel’s right
to self-defense consistent with international law.  They also
underscored the imperative to protect civilians in Gaza and increase
deliveries of life-saving humanitarian assistance.  The two exchanged
views on setting the conditions for a durable peace for Israelis and
Palestinians alike, which includes the establishment of a Palestinian
state with Israel’s security guaranteed.  President Biden and Chancellor
Scholz discussed the upcoming NATO Summit in Washington and pointed to
the strength of the transatlantic relationship in
facing current geopolitical challenges.  
