---
date: '2024-02-01'
modified_time: 2024-01-31 19:19:43-05:00
published_time: 2024-02-01 05:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/02/01/president-biden-takes-on-big-pharma-and-is-lowering-prescription-drug-prices/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Takes On Big Pharma and Is Lowering Prescription Drug\_Prices"
---
 
After decades of opposition, President Biden enacted a law that finally
takes on Big Pharma and gives Medicare the power to negotiate drug
prices. President Biden’s Inflation Reduction Act will save millions of
seniors money on some of the costliest prescription drugs on the market
–**and today, Medicare will send initial offers to manufacturers of the
first ten drugs selected for drug price negotiation to help bring down
the price of these prescription drugs.**  This is the first time ever
that Medicare is not accepting the drug prices the pharmaceutical
companies set. 

The drug price negotiation program is a prime example of the ways the
Administration is working to lower costs for American families. In 2022,
nine million seniors on Medicare were prescribed the ten drugs selected
for the first round of drug price negotiation. These individuals spent
an estimated $3.4 billion in out-of-pocket costs in 2022 alone for these
drugs, which are used to treat some of the most common conditions like
blood clots, arthritis, diabetes, cancer, heart disease, and more. Some
seniors spent nearly $6,500 out-of-pocket for a single one of these
drugs – while Big Pharma continued to make record profits, ripping off
American taxpayers and the seniors their drugs aim to treat.  
**  
New report highlights Big Pharma price gouging**

A new report released today shows that in 2022, Big Pharma charged
Americans two to three times more than what they charged people in other
OECD countries for the same drugs, even when accounting for rebates and
discounts. As one example, U.S. gross prices for insulin – a drug that
has been around for 100 years and costs drug companies just $10 a vial
to make – were on average almost ten times the price in the United
States than in comparison countries.

This comes as large drug companies
[spent](https://www.protectourcare.org/by-the-numbers-the-ten-costly-drugs-that-are-now-eligible-to-have-lower-prices-negotiated-by-medicare/)
nearly $750 billion on self-enriching stock buybacks and dividends over
the last decade. Big Pharma also
[executed](https://www.axios.com/2023/12/28/biopharma-biotech-merger-deal-2023-2024)
over $135 billion in mergers and acquisitions in 2023 alone, while
passing the cost to consumers. And six of ten of the drugs selected for
this year’s negotiation program [raised their
prices](https://www.46brooklyn.com/branddrug-boxscore) in the first
month of 2024 – after all ten drugs were already
[priced](https://www.commonwealthfund.org/sites/default/files/2023-12/PDF_Gumas_IRA_drugs_intl_price_comparison_exhibits.pdf)
three to eight times higher in the United States than in other
countries.

President Biden’s drug price negotiation program finally takes on Big
Pharma’s exorbitant price gouging of seniors, allowing Medicare to put
money back in the pockets of American families. By negotiating lower
prices for these drugs – and dozens more in the years that follow – the
Biden Administration is creating a new and better deal for patients.  
**  
Drug price negotiation could have a significant impact on seniors**

Until the Inflation Reduction Act, Medicare was prohibited from directly
negotiating prescription drug prices to get the best deal for seniors,
even as other government agencies that provide health services actively
negotiate lower drug prices. The Veterans Health Administration,
Department of Defense, and Medicaid all have the power to negotiate drug
prices, and they pay less than Medicare, on average, for top-selling
brand-name drugs. In 2017,
[the](https://www.gao.gov/products/gao-21-111) Government Accountability
Office found that the VA paid on average 49 percent less per unit for
the same brand-name drugs offered through the VA health system than
Medicare Part D paid.  
**  
Big Pharma and House Republicans continue to attack popular drug price
negotiation program**

Americans from all backgrounds and ages overwhelmingly support Medicare
being able to negotiate lower drug prices for seniors, with eight in ten
adults [in
favor](https://www.kff.org/health-costs/poll-finding/public-weighs-in-on-medicare-drug-negotiations/)
of the federal government negotiating drug prices.  

At the same time, Big Pharma is litigating nine lawsuits against
Medicare Drug Price Negotiation. They’re hoping the courts will do what
they could not get done in Congress: block Medicare from negotiating
lower prices for seniors and families. And House Republicans are all too
eager to come to drug companies’ defense. House Republicans have pledged
to eliminate the Inflation Reduction Act, have vowed to cut Medicare and
Social Security benefits, are trying to kick millions of Americans off
affordable health care, and would keep drug prices high for seniors and
American families.

President Biden won’t stand for that. He is laser focused on lowering
costs, protecting Medicare and Social Security, and making sure his
Inflation Reduction Act gives more seniors, people with disabilities,
and families more breathing room. 

<img
src="https://mcusercontent.com/c97630621baff8c44fe607661/images/fac2dc06-288e-0591-dc8f-bb2a9a878d92.png"
decoding="async" loading="lazy" width="394" height="430" />

Later this year, new, negotiated prices for the first ten prescription
drugs selected for the negotiation program are scheduled to be
announced. Over the next four years, Medicare will select up to 60 drugs
for negotiation – and up to 20 additional drugs per year after that.

Beyond that, millions of seniors with diabetes are already benefitting
from the $35 cap for a month’s supply of insulin under the President’s
Inflation Reduction Act. Fifteen million Americans are saving $800 per
year on health insurance premiums. And seniors that took the 47 drugs
covered by Medicare Part B that hiked prices faster than inflation in
2023 had [lower
coinsurance](https://aspe.hhs.gov/sites/default/files/documents/7135bf0b04310aaf69f8c5f3029c4b05/ira-medicare-part-b-rebate-factsheet.pdf),
with some enrollees saving as much as $618 per dose.

No matter how many times House Republicans try to repeal the Inflation
Reduction Act, President Biden knows how it is delivering for American
families, and his Administration will continue the fight to lower health
care costs for more Americans.

\###
