---
date: '2024-02-16'
published_time: 2024-02-16 13:05:19-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/02/16/readout-of-vice-president-harriss-meeting-with-prime-minister-al-sudani-of-iraq/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of Vice President Harris\u2019s Meeting with Prime Minister Al-Sudani\
  \ of\_Iraq"
---
 
Vice President Kamala Harris met with Prime Minister Mohammed Shia
Al-Sudani of Iraq today in Munich, Germany. The Vice President and Prime
Minister Sudani reaffirmed their mutual interest in a strong and
enduring partnership as envisioned in the U.S.-Iraq Strategic Framework
Agreement.  The Vice President emphasized the commitment of the United
States to supporting Iraq in achieving a secure and stable future for
its people, which is critical to ensuring a prosperous
and interconnected Middle East. The Vice President urged the Iraqi
government to prevent attacks against U.S. personnel and expressed
appreciation for the Prime Minister’s efforts to date. She stated that
the United States has no higher priority than the safety of U.S.
personnel, and will act, as needed, in self-defense. The leaders also
discussed the importance of continuing the U.S.-Iraq Higher Military
Commission, which will enable the transition to an enduring bilateral
security partnership between the United States and Iraq and is the
natural next step to build on the very successful collaboration of the
past 10 years between Iraq and the Defeat ISIS coalition. The two
leaders also discussed the importance of continuing U.S.-Iraq economic
and energy cooperation through the High Coordinating Committee and
continuing to economically integrate Iraq into the broader region. The
Vice President reiterated President Biden’s invitation to Prime Minister
Sudani to visit the White House.

\###
