---
date: '2024-02-29'
modified_time: 2024-02-28 19:03:22-05:00
published_time: 2024-02-29 05:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/02/29/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-takes-action-to-address-risks-of-autos-from-china-and-other-countries-of-concern/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Takes Action to Address Risks\
  \ of Autos from China and Other Countries of\_Concern"
---
 
President Biden is committed to ensuring American automakers and auto
workers are the best in the world. The U.S. auto industry is leading the
world in quality and innovation, building cars in America with American
workers. Chinese automakers are seeking to flood the autos market in the
United States and globally, posing new threats to our national security.
President Biden will not let that happen.  
  
Today, President Biden is taking unprecedented action to protect
Americans from the national security risks posed by connected vehicles
from countries of concern, including the People’s Republic of China. At
the President’s direction, the Department of Commerce will investigate
the national security risks from connected vehicles that incorporate
technology from countries of concern, including China, and consider
regulations to address those risks.  
  
Autos increasingly leverage advanced technologies to enable navigational
tools, provide driver assist features, and reduce operating costs and
carbon emissions through fast and efficient charging. These autos are
constantly connecting with personal devices, other cars, U.S.
infrastructure, and their original manufacturer.  
  
New vulnerabilities and threats could arise with connected autos if a
foreign government gained access to these vehicles’ systems or data.
Connected vehicles collect large amounts of sensitive data on their
drivers and passengers; regularly use their cameras and sensors to
record detailed information on U.S. infrastructure; interact directly
with critical infrastructure; and can be piloted or disabled remotely.
Connected autos that rely on technology and data systems from countries
of concern, including the People’s Republic of China, could be exploited
in ways that threaten national security.  
  
China has imposed wide-ranging restrictions on American autos and other
foreign vehicles operating on their roads. **Today, President Biden is
directing his Administration to take unprecedented action to address the
national security risks from connected autos that incorporate technology
from China and other countries of concern**.  
  
The Department of Commerce is issuing an [Advanced Notice of Proposed
Rulemaking
(ANPRM)](https://www.bis.doc.gov/index.php/component/docman/?task=doc_download&gid=3457) to
investigate national security risks posed by connected vehicles from
countries of concern. As part of the investigation, Commerce will gather
information from the industry and the public on the nature of these
risks, and potential steps that could be taken to mitigate them.
Commerce intends to use this information to help inform and scope
potential regulations to govern the use of technology in vehicles from
certain countries.  
  
This is the first action taken by the U.S. Department of Commerce’s
Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS) under Executive Orders focused on
protecting domestic information and communications technology and
services supply chains from national security threats.  
  
The Administration encourages interested stakeholders to share input
with the Department of Commerce through this process so their views can
be taken under consideration. The Department will consult closely with
industry, U.S. allies and partners, and other stakeholders throughout
the regulatory process to ensure any actions maximally protect U.S.
national security, while minimizing unintended consequences or
disruptions.

\###
