---
date: '2024-02-12'
published_time: 2024-02-12 19:18:54-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/02/12/readout-of-president-bidens-meeting-with-his-majesty-king-abdullah-ii-of-jordan-2/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of President\_Biden\u2019s Meeting with His Majesty King Abdullah\
  \ II of\_Jordan"
---
 
President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. met today with His Majesty King Abdullah
II of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan at the White House. Both leaders
acknowledged the 75 years of diplomatic relations between the United
States and Jordan and the enduring partnership and friendship between
our two countries. 

The President and King Abdullah II discussed the latest developments in
Gaza and affirmed their commitment to work together to produce an
enduring end to the crisis. Both remain committed to achieving a
durable, lasting peace to include a two-state solution for the
Palestinian people with Israel’s security guaranteed. Both President
Biden and King Abdullah II reiterated their shared commitment to
facilitating the increased, sustained delivery of life-saving
humanitarian assistance to Palestinian civilians in Gaza. President
Biden thanked His Majesty for Jordan’s critical leadership and
partnership in this effort.

The President and King Abdullah II also discussed the importance of
stability in the West Bank and in the region more broadly. The President
underscored the importance of upholding the status quo at the Haram
al-Sharif/Temple Mount, recognizing Jordan’s crucial role as the
custodian of Muslim holy places in Jerusalem. Both leaders reaffirmed
their commitment to working together to realize a more stable and
prosperous future for the Middle East and its people, and President
Biden confirmed unwavering U.S. support for Jordan and the Jordanian
people. 

\###
