---
date: '2024-02-29'
modified_time: 2024-02-28 19:17:09-05:00
published_time: 2024-02-29 05:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/02/29/fact-sheet-impact-of-bipartisan-border-agreement-funding-on-border-operations/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Impact of Bipartisan Border Agreement Funding on Border\_Operations"
---
 
Today, President Biden is traveling to Brownsville, Texas to meet with
U.S. Border Patrol agents, law enforcement, frontline personnel, and
local leaders to discuss the urgent need to pass the Senate bipartisan
border security agreement. President Biden has repeatedly said he is
willing to work in a bipartisan way to secure the border and fix our
broken immigration system. Over several months, his Administration
negotiated with a bipartisan group of Senators to release a bill that
includes the toughest and fairest reforms to secure the border we have
had in decades. It would make our country safer, make our border more
secure, and treat people fairly and humanely while preserving legal
immigration, consistent with our nation’s values. The bill received
support from the Border Patrol Union, the Chamber of Commerce, the South
Texas Alliance of Cities, and the Wall Street Journal – but Speaker Mike
Johnson and House Republicans have decided to play politics at the
expense of border security.

At the President’s request, the agreement included over $20 billion for
border security. The agreement would provide critical resources at the
border and significant policy changes, including:

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Border Patrol:</span> Border
Patrol staffing has remained roughly flat over the last four years,
despite border encounters increasing by 250 percent over the same
period. Today, there are just shy of 20,000 Border Patrol Agents. **The
bipartisan Senate bill would add more than 1,500 new Customs and Border
Protection personnel.**

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Asylum Officers and Asylum
Reform: </span>Similarly, Asylum Officer staffing has remained stagnant
over the last four years and there is an insufficient number of asylum
officers to do initial screenings. As a result, each asylum case
generally takes 5 to 7 years to be heard and adjudicated. Today, there
are approximately 1,000 Asylum Officers; **the bipartisan Senate bill
would add an additional 4,300 Asylum Officers and it would make the
asylum process faster and fairer.  
**  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Immigration and Customs
Enforcement (ICE): </span>ICE detention facilities are currently over
capacity. Today, ICE has approximately 40,000 detention beds. **The
bipartisan Senate agreement would increase detention beds to a total of
50,000.** Moreover, without immediate action from Congress DHS will need
to move funding to ICE from other critical missions or reduce ICE’s
enforcement operations to manage a shortfall of several hundred million
dollars.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Immigration Judges:
</span>Currently there is a backlog of over 2 million cases for
immigration judges. Each asylum case generally takes 5 to 7 years to
complete. Without more judges, these timelines and backlogs will
continue to grow. Today there is funding for 734 immigration judges,
**the bipartisan Senate bill would provide funding for an additional 100
immigration judges and their associated staff.**

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Combatting Drug
Trafficking:</span> We continue our fight against the trafficking of
fentanyl and other illicit drugs. **The bipartisan agreement would fund
the installation of 100 cutting-edge inspection machines to help detect
fentanyl at our Southwest Border ports of entry.** It would also give
the President the authority to impose sanctions on foreign nationals
knowingly involved in significant trafficking of fentanyl by a
transnational criminal organization.  

**The bill also includes $1.4 billion for cities and states who are
providing critical services to newcomers, and would expedite work
permits for people who are in the country and qualify.**

In order to truly tackle this problem and support the more than four
thousand border and immigration officials who work in the Rio Grande
Valley – which includes Brownsville – with the additional personnel and
resources they need to secure our border, Congress must act.

\###
