---
date: '2024-02-23'
modified_time: 2024-02-23 00:04:09-05:00
published_time: 2024-02-23 06:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/02/23/statement-from-president-joe-biden-ahead-of-the-two-year-anniversary-of-russias-brutal-assault-against-ukraine/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement from President Joe\_Biden Ahead of the Two-Year Anniversary of Russia\u2019\
  s Brutal Assault Against\_Ukraine"
---
 
Two years ago tomorrow, shortly before dawn, Russian missiles began
exploding near the capital city of Kyiv. Russian troops marched across
the border into Ukraine. Vladimir Putin’s vicious onslaught against
Ukraine had begun. 

He believed that he could easily bend the will and break the resolve of
a free people. That he could roll into a sovereign nation, and the world
would roll over. That he could shake the foundations of security in
Europe and beyond. 

Two years later, we see even more vividly what we’ve known since day
one: Putin miscalculated badly.

The brave people of Ukraine fight on, unbowed in their determination to
defend their freedom and future. NATO is stronger, larger, and more
united than ever. And the unprecedented 50-nation global coalition in
support of Ukraine, led by the United States, remains committed to
providing critical assistance to Ukraine and holding Russia accountable
for its aggression.

The American people and people around the world understand that the
stakes of this fight extend far beyond Ukraine. Ten years ago, Putin
occupied Crimea, and created puppet regimes in Ukraine’s Luhansk and
Donetsk regions.  Two years ago, he tried to wipe Ukraine off the map. 
If Putin does not pay the price for his death and destruction, he will
keep going. And the costs to the United States—along with our NATO
Allies and partners in Europe and around the world—will rise.

Today, I am announcing more than 500 new sanctions against Russia for
its ongoing war of conquest on Ukraine and for the death of Aleksey
Navalny, who was a courageous anti-corruption activist and Putin’s
fiercest opposition leader. These sanctions will target individuals
connected to Navalny’s imprisonment as well as Russia’s financial
sector, defense industrial base, procurement networks and sanctions
evaders across multiple continents. They will ensure Putin pays an even
steeper price for his aggression abroad and repression at home.

We are also imposing new export restrictions on nearly 100 entities for
providing backdoor support for Russia’s war machine. We are taking
action to further reduce Russia’s energy revenues. And I’ve directed my
team to strengthen support for civil society, independent media, and
those who fight for democracy around the world.

Two years into this war, the people of Ukraine continue to fight with
tremendous courage. But they are running out of ammunition. Ukraine
needs more supplies from the United States to hold the line against
Russia’s relentless attacks, which are enabled by arms and ammunition
from Iran and North Korea. That’s why the House of Representatives must
pass the bipartisan national security supplemental bill, before it’s too
late.

This bill provides urgent funding for Ukraine. It also invests in
America’s own defense industrial base. It passed overwhelmingly in the
Senate, and there is no question that, if the Speaker called a vote, it
would pass quickly in the House. Congress knows that by supporting this
bill, we can strengthen security in Europe, strengthen our security at
home, and stand up to Putin. Opposing this bill only plays into his
hands.

History is watching. The failure to support Ukraine at this critical
moment will not be forgotten. Now is the time for us to stand strong
with Ukraine and stand united with our Allies and partners. Now is the
time to prove that the United States stands up for freedom and bows down
to no one.

\###
