---
date: '2024-02-04'
modified_time: 2024-02-04 18:57:49-05:00
published_time: 2024-02-04 18:57:48-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/02/04/statement-from-president-joe-biden-on-bipartisan-senate-national-security-agreement/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement from President Joe\_Biden on Bipartisan Senate National Security\_\
  Agreement"
---
 
For too long, going back decades, the immigration system has been
broken. It’s time to fix it. That’s why over two months ago I instructed
members of my administration to work with a bipartisan group of Senators
to – finally – seriously address the issue. And, that’s what they’ve
done – working around the clock, through the holidays and over weekends.
Now we’ve reached an agreement on a bipartisan national security deal
that includes the toughest and fairest set of border reforms in decades.
I strongly support it.

It will make our country safer, make our border more secure, treat
people fairly and humanely while preserving legal immigration,
consistent with our values as a nation. It would give me, as President,
a new emergency authority to shut down the border when it becomes
overwhelmed. It will make our asylum process fairer and more efficient
while protecting the most vulnerable. It will expedite work permits so
that those who are here and qualify can get to work more quickly. It
will create more opportunities for families to come together – through
short-term visits as well as increased permanent lawful pathways. It
ensures the most vulnerable, unaccompanied young children, have paid
legal representation. And it will provide the resources I have
repeatedly requested to secure the border by adding border patrol
agents, immigration judges, asylum officers, and cutting-edge inspection
machines to help detect and stop the flow of fentanyl. While this
agreement doesn’t address everything I would have wanted, these reforms
are essential for making our border more orderly, secure, fair, and
humane.

The bipartisan national security agreement would also address two other
important priorities. It allows the United States to continue our vital
work, together with partners all around the world, to stand up for
Ukraine’s freedom and support its ability to defend itself against
Russia’s aggression. As I have said before, if we don’t stop Putin’s
appetite for power and control in Ukraine, he won’t limit himself to
just Ukraine and the costs for America will rise. This agreement also
provides Israel what they need to protect their people and defend itself
against Hamas terrorists. And it will provide life-saving humanitarian
assistance for the Palestinian people.

There is more work to be done to get it over the finish line. But I want
to be clear about something: If you believe, as I do, that we must
secure the border now, doing nothing is not an option. Working with my
administration, the United States Senate has done the hard work it takes
to reach a bipartisan agreement. Now, House Republicans have to decide.
Do they want to solve the problem? Or do they want to keep playing
politics with the border? I’ve made my decision. I’m ready to solve the
problem. I’m ready to secure the border. And so are the American people.
I know we have our divisions at home but we cannot let partisan politics
get in the way of our responsibilities as a great nation. I refuse to
let that happen. In moments like these, we have to remember who we are.
We’re the United States of America and there is nothing, nothing beyond
our capacity if we do it together.

I urge Congress to come together and swiftly pass this bipartisan
agreement. Get it to my desk so I can sign it into law immediately.

\###
