---
date: '2024-02-29'
modified_time: 2024-02-29 09:42:06-05:00
published_time: 2024-02-29 10:10:00-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/02/29/fact-sheet-vice-president-harris-announces-action-to-lower-child-care-costs-for-more-than-100000-families/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Vice President Harris Announces Action to Lower Child Care Costs\
  \ for More than 100,000\_Families"
---
 
Vice President Harris is announcing key steps to lower the cost of child
care for working families and better support early educators, consistent
with the President’s historic [Executive Order on
Care](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/04/18/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-most-sweeping-set-of-executive-actions-to-improve-care-in-history/).
Today, the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) finalized a
rule strengthening the Child Care & Development Block Grant (CCDBG)
program, which supports over a million children and their families each
month with child care assistance.  
  
Specifically, this landmark rule will:

-   Cap co-payments for families participating in CCDBG to no more than
    7% of income, saving families in states that do not yet cap
    co-payments over $200 a month on average;
-   Encourage states to eliminate co-payments entirely for families of
    children with disabilities, children experiencing homelessness,
    children in foster care, children in Head Start, and families at or
    below 150% of the federal poverty level;
-   Direct states to pay child care providers more fairly and on time,
    improving financial stability for 140,000 child care providers and
    incentivizing more providers to participate in the CCDBG program;
    and
-   Make it easier for families to access CCDBG subsidies by encouraging
    states to streamline eligibility and enrollment processes and reduce
    red tape that can disrupt parent employment, training, and
    education.

**Lowering Child Care Costs for Working Families**  
  
High child care co-payments strain family budgets, and parents who
cannot afford to pay them face a barrier to employment. Working families
with low incomes are likely to pay a greater share of their income
toward child care costs. The President’s Council of Economic Advisers
[found](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/cea/written-materials/2023/07/18/improving-access-affordability-and-quality-in-the-early-care-and-education-ece-market/)
that higher-income families pay between 6-8% of their income on child
care expenses, while families with low incomes pay as much as 31% of
their income toward child care. CCDBG provides child care subsidies to
low-income working families, yet some families participating in the
program may still pay as much as 27% of their income on co-payments.
While HHS has long encouraged states set co-payments at or below 7% of
income for families participating in CCDBG, only 18 states do.    
  
The final rule will reduce the significant financial strain that high
co-payments cause for working families with low incomes by capping
co-payments for CCDBG families at no more than 7% of a family’s income,
consistent with HHS’s longstanding recommendation. In North Carolina, a
family of 3 earning $44,000 could stand to save close to $110.00 per
month. In Pennsylvania, a family of 3 earning $44,000 could save nearly
$120.00 per month. In Maine, a family of 3 earning $64,000 could save
$160.00 per month. In South Dakota, a family of 3 earning $46,000 could
save $180.00 per month. In Wisconsin, a family of 3 earning $68,000
could save as much as $635.00 per month. The final rule also encourages
states to waive co-payments entirely for certain categories of families,
including children with disabilities.  
  
HHS projects that **more than 100,000 families will see their
co-payments reduced or eliminated** owing to these policies.  
  
**Improving Financial Stability of Child Care Providers**  
  
Child care providers who serve families receiving CCDBG experience
burdens of their own, which disincentivize their participation in the
program. For example, **only eight states currently pay CCDBG** **child
care** **providers on-time, meaning only 4% of home-based CCDBG
providers and 11% of center-based CCDBG providers are paid on-time**.
And only half of states pay CCDBG providers based on enrollment as
opposed to attendance – meaning thousands of providers payments can be
adjusted *downward* if children miss days.  
  
The final rule requires states to pay CCDBG providers more fairly, which
will help stabilize operations for participating providers and encourage
more providers to participate in CCDBG. As a result, **all home-based
and center-based CCDBG providers will start getting paid on-time.**
Additionally, the final rule ensures that providers are paid based on
program enrollment, and encourages states to further increase provider
subsidies. These changes will give approximately 140,000 providers
needed financial stability and place them in a better position to make
needed improvements, such as boosting compensation for workers. These
changes will also increase parents’ child care options for those
participating in CCDBG, making it easier to find the care that meets
their needs.  
  
**Making it Easier for Families to Access Benefits**  
  
Some families currently face barriers in accessing CCDBG because of
challenging enrollment processes and paperwork burdens. For instance, in
nearly one-third of states, families still use paper applications to
access child care assistance.  
  
The final rule pushes states to **create and accept applications online
for enrollment – extending a policy that already exists in thirty-seven
states.** The final rule also encourages states to adopt a policy of
presumptive eligibility for child care subsidies, which would allow
families to receive temporary and immediate financial assistance to pay
for child care, while the state determines and verifies their
eligibility for the program. This would considerably lower the burden
for families to receive subsidy, particularly for families experiencing
homelessness. **Only six states currently offer presumptive eligibility
to families**.  
  
**The Biden-Harris Administration’s Record on Child Care**  
  
The finalization of this rule is the latest in a series of actions the
Biden-Harris Administration has taken to improve access to early care
and education. Since Day One, the President and Vice President have
fought to secure the resources and policy improvements necessary to
transform our child care system. The President’s American Rescue Plan
(ARP) not only helped keep over 225,000 child care providers open, but
had a [significant
impact](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/cea/written-materials/2023/11/07/child-care-stabilization/)
on the economy. That investment alone brought hundreds of thousands of
women with young children into the workforce, lowered child care costs
per child by $1,250, and increased wages for child care workers by 10%.
As ARP funds dry up, the sector urgently needs more support as parents
are at serious risk of paying more or losing access to care altogether.
This is why the [President requested $16
billion](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/omb/briefing-room/2023/11/02/state-breakdown-the-biden-harris-administrations-funding-request-would-help-prevent-families-across-the-country-from-losing-child-care/)
in supplemental funding and continues to call on Congress to act to
sustain the child care sector. This funding request would support more
than 220,000 child care providers across the country that serve a total
of more than 10 million kids.  
  
The Biden-Harris Administration has also taken steps to [lower child
care costs for military
families](https://www.defense.gov/News/News-Stories/Article/Article/3662171/dod-reduces-on-base-child-care-fees-for-military-families/)
and proposed [increased pay for Head Start
teachers](https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/education/2023/11/15/head-start-teacher-pay-may-increase/71592951007/).
In July, the White House hosted a first-of-its-kind [convening on child
care](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/07/19/readout-of-the-white-house-states-convening-on-child-care/#:~:text=Today%2C%20White%20House%20officials%20welcomed,quality%20for%20child%20care%20workers.),
gathering nearly 100 state legislators from across the country to
discuss ways to improve child care governance, access, affordability,
and the workforce. The President and Vice President have also proposed
[major
investments](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/omb/briefing-room/2023/11/02/state-breakdown-the-biden-harris-administrations-funding-request-would-help-prevent-families-across-the-country-from-losing-child-care/)
to increase child care worker pay and limit child care costs so that
most families pay no more than $10 a day for child care.

\###
