---
date: '2024-02-12'
modified_time: 2024-02-12 12:26:51-05:00
published_time: 2024-02-12 12:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/02/12/fact-sheet-lowering-home-energy-costs-through-president-bidens-inflation-reduction-act/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Lowering Home Energy Costs Through President\_Biden\u2019s Inflation\
  \ Reduction\_Act"
---
 
*A majority of Americans support programs to lower energy bills and
expand clean energy into homes*

Through President Biden’s historic Investing in America agenda, the
Biden-Harris Administration is cutting costs for hardworking American
families in every corner of the country. One of the largest costs for
many Americans is heating, cooling, and powering their homes—with the
lowest-income families spending [upwards of
30%](https://www.energy.gov/justice/energy-justice-dashboard-beta) of
their income on energy bills.

The Inflation Reduction Act has already spurred a clean energy boom,
contributing to more than [$360
billion](https://www.whitehouse.gov/invest/?utm_source=invest.gov) in
private sector clean energy announcements since President Biden took
office. Clean energy deployment from both the Inflation Reduction Act
and the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law is projected to cut electricity
rates by as much as [9
percent](https://www.energy.gov/policy/articles/investing-american-energy-significant-impacts-inflation-reduction-act-and) by
2030. In addition, the Inflation Reduction Act establishes several
consumer-focused programs through tax credits and rebates to help
families lower their home energy bills even further.

A majority of Americans support these programs—according to an [August
2023
poll](https://www.washingtonpost.com/climate-environment/2023/08/07/biden-white-house-climate-policy/),
65 percent of Americans support tax credits to install solar panels and
54 percent support tax credits to buy heat pumps. Yet Republicans in
Congress continually fight to repeal these popular provisions, which
would increase costs for hardworking Americans, offshore jobs, and
worsen the climate crisis.

Today, the Biden-Harris Administration is convening federal partners,
nonprofits, and philanthropies at the White House to expand consumer
education and outreach efforts as these programs become available across
the country. The Biden-Harris Administration is making new federal
resources about Inflation Reduction Act home energy programs available
for consumers, local officials, and advocates. In addition, nonprofit
organizations are announcing commitments to expand their outreach
efforts.

**<u>Lowering Home Energy Costs Through the Inflation Reduction
Act</u>**

The Inflation Reduction Act’s consumer tax credits for certain home
energy technologies are already available. Americans who installed the
following technologies in 2023 can claim credits on their tax returns
due on April 15, 2024:

-   Families who install an efficient electric heat pump for heating and
    cooling
    can [receive](https://www.irs.gov/credits-deductions/frequently-asked-questions-about-energy-efficient-home-improvements-and-residential-clean-energy-property-credits-energy-efficient-home-improvement-credit-qualifying-expenditures-and-credit-amount) a [tax
    credit](https://www.energy.gov/policy/articles/making-our-homes-more-efficient-clean-energy-tax-credits-consumers) of
    up to $2,000 and save [an average of
    $500](https://www.energy.gov/articles/pump-your-savings-heat-pumps#:~:text=Depending%20on%20the%20size%20of,average%20over%20%24500%20per%20year%20.) per
    year on energy bills.
-   Families who make other energy efficiency improvements
    can [receive](https://www.energy.gov/policy/articles/making-our-homes-more-efficient-clean-energy-tax-credits-consumers) [tax
    credits](https://www.irs.gov/credits-deductions/frequently-asked-questions-about-energy-efficient-home-improvements-and-residential-clean-energy-property-credits-energy-efficient-home-improvement-credit-qualifying-expenditures-and-credit-amount) worth
    up to $500 for doors, $600 for windows, $150 for a [home energy
    audit](https://www.irs.gov/newsroom/home-energy-audits-may-qualify-for-an-energy-efficient-home-improvement-credit), and
    up to 30 percent off the cost of new insulation—a total of up to
    $1,200 per year in tax credits.
-   Families who install [rooftop solar, geothermal or battery
    storage](https://www.energy.gov/eere/solar/homeowners-guide-federal-tax-credit-solar-photovoltaics) at
    home can save up to 30 percent of the cost of the installation via
    a [tax
    credit](https://www.irs.gov/credits-deductions/frequently-asked-questions-about-energy-efficient-home-improvements-and-residential-clean-energy-property-credits-residential-clean-energy-property-credit-qualifying-expenditures-and-credit-amount) and
    save
    nearly [$400](https://www.energy.gov/energysaver/articles/inflation-reduction-act-2022-what-it-means-you#:~:text=Considering%20the%20upfront%20cost%20and%20average%20expected%20savings,lifetime%20of%20the%20system%2C%20or%20nearly%20%24400%20annually.) per
    year on their energy bills.

In addition, DOE has [opened
applications](https://www.energy.gov/articles/biden-harris-administration-opens-applications-states-and-territories-implement-85-billion) for
states to implement **<u>$8.8 billion in home energy rebate programs,
which will provide rebates for low- and middle-income families</u>** to
buy and install cost-saving electric appliances and heat pumps and to
make energy efficiency improvements such as insulation and air sealing
to their homes, in alignment with President Biden’s ambitious
environmental justice goals. States are expected to begin launching
their rebate programs later this year, and you can track your state’s
progress toward setting up its rebate
program [here](https://www.energy.gov/save/rebates).

Additionally, the Biden-Harris administration has already made several
online federal resources available to educate consumers about the
Inflation Reduction Act’s home energy savings programs:

-   This Friday, February 16, the Environmental Protection
    Agency’s [ENERGY STAR program](https://www.energystar.gov/) will
    launch a new **Incentive Finder** to help consumers determine which
    home energy products qualify for federal benefits, including
    Inflation Reduction Act programs.

<!-- -->

-   The Department of Energy’s **Energy Savings
    Hub** at [**energy.gov/save**](https://www.energy.gov/save) details
    opportunities for both homeowners and renters to lower their energy
    costs and benefit from the Inflation Reduction Act and other
    programs.

<!-- -->

-   Last week, the Treasury Department launched a new Inflation
    Reduction Act **Tax Resource
    Hub **at [**Treasury.gov/IRA**](https://home.treasury.gov/policy-issues/inflation-reduction-act) that
    provides tools to assist consumers and other taxpayers in accessing
    key tax credits, while highlighting the impact of the law for
    America’s economy and communities.

**<u>Expanding Consumer Education and Outreach Efforts Around the
Country</u>**

Today, several nonprofits are announcing new and expanded efforts to
reach consumers across the country on the Inflation Reduction Act’s
consumer home energy programs:

-   Two state affiliates of** League of Conservation Voters **are
    expanding a successful door-to-door communications campaign to
    educate consumers on how to access the benefits of the Inflation
    Reduction Act with the goal of reaching 300,000 homes in those
    states. 

<!-- -->

-   **Climate Power** is committing to educate 1 million American
    consumers about accessing the benefits of President Biden’s clean
    energy plan by the end of 2024. They will reach American consumers
    on the communications channels where they’re spending most of their
    time consuming news and content—across paid, earned, and organic
    media channels—showcasing how consumers can take advantage of the
    clean energy plan to lower energy costs, benefit from good-paying
    jobs in their communities, and help to protect communities across
    the country from dangerous pollution.

<!-- -->

-   **Civic Nation** and its We The Action initiative are working to
    develop a national help center to increase consumer access to the
    Inflation Reduction Act’s clean energy incentives. This new effort
    would connect consumers with volunteer experts to help them navigate
    information on available incentives, product eligibility, taxpayer
    qualifications, and more. 

<!-- -->

-   National nonprofits SaverLife and Inclusiv are announcing the launch
    of **Community Finance for Climate Action**, a new
    philanthropically-supported collaborative to ensure that households
    living on low incomes are economically protected and fully included
    in the transition to a green economy by tracking the financial
    impacts of climate change on low-income families and advancing
    consumer lending solutions for clean energy equipment.

<!-- -->

-   **Rewiring America**—a national nonprofit working to make
    residential electrification possible for everyone—recently launched
    a Personal Electrification Planner that they project more than
    200,000 households will use this year to plan their home upgrades,
    including 50,000 low- and moderate-income households. In
    addition, Rewiring America will leverage partnerships with industry,
    utilities, local governments, and community-based organizations to
    install heat pumps and other electric appliances in more than 1,000
    low-income and disadvantaged community households in over 150
    locations by summer 2025.
