---
date: '2024-02-29'
published_time: 2024-02-29 20:52:25-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/02/29/statement-from-president-joe-biden-on-passage-of-the-bipartisan-government-funding-bill/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement from President Joe\_Biden on Passage of the Bipartisan Government\
  \ Funding\_Bill"
---
 
This bipartisan agreement prevents a damaging shutdown and allows more
time for Congress to work toward full-year funding bills. That’s good
news for the American people. But I want to be clear: this is a
short-term fix—not a long-term solution*.*

In the days ahead, Congress must do its job and pass full-year funding
bills that deliver for the American people. And House Republicans must
act on the bipartisan National Security Supplemental, which already
passed the Senate with overwhelming bipartisan support and would pass
the House if it was brought to a vote.

During my meeting with Congressional Leaders this week, we all agreed on
the vital importance of supporting Ukraine. That understanding must now
be backed with action. Every day that House Republicans refuse to hold a
vote on the bipartisan National Security Supplemental, the consequences
for Ukraine grow more severe.

In addition to arming Ukraine as they defend against Russian attacks
every single day, this bill will help ensure that Israel can defend
itself against Hamas and other threats. And it will provide critical
humanitarian aid to the Palestinian people and those impacted by
conflicts around the world. Because the truth is, the aid flowing into
Gaza is nowhere near enough, and nowhere fast enough. Innocent lives are
on the line.

It is time for House Republicans to put our national security first and
move with urgency to get this bipartisan bill to my desk.
