---
date: '2024-02-07'
published_time: 2024-02-07 11:44:21-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/02/07/readout-of-homeland-security-advisor-dr-liz-sherwood-randalls-trip-to-mexico/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of Homeland Security Advisor Dr. Liz Sherwood-Randall\u2019s Trip\
  \ to\_Mexico"
---
 
On February 6-7, Homeland Security Advisor Dr. Liz Sherwood-Randall led
an interagency delegation to Mexico to strengthen cooperation with our
Mexican partners on a range of topics of vital mutual interest,
including managing hemispheric migration and countering the trafficking
of illicit drugs and weapons.  Deputy Attorney General Lisa Monaco,
Deputy Secretary of State for Management and Resources Richard Verma,
Acting Deputy Secretary of Homeland Security Kristie Canegallo, and
Deputy Director of the Office of National Drug Control Policy Adam Cohen
accompanied Dr. Sherwood-Randall on this delegation.  

Yesterday, Dr. Sherwood-Randall and U.S. Ambassador to Mexico Ken
Salazar met with Mexican President Andrés Manuel López Obrador and
Foreign Secretary Alicia Bárcena. Dr. Sherwood-Randall expressed
appreciation to President López Obrador for the continued constructive
and candid dialogue between our two countries, which was exemplified by
last Saturday’s telephone conversation between President Joe Biden and
President López Obrador on February 3 and these meetings in Mexico
City.  Additionally, the full interagency delegation met with
counterparts in the Mexican Security Cabinet.  They discussed the
importance of increasing enforcement measures to deter irregular
migration, expanding safe and lawful migration pathways, and
strengthening cooperation to stem the cross-border flows of illicit
drugs and weapons.  The two delegations agreed on specifics steps to
achieve shared goals and on timelines for implementation.  They also
agreed to increase information and data sharing to facilitate action
against the criminal organizations that traffic people, guns, and
illicit drugs, including fentanyl, into our communities.  The two
delegations reaffirmed the United States and Mexico’s commitment to a
united fight against the criminal organizations that prey on vulnerable
populations in both countries and jeopardize public health and safety. 

Today, Dr. Sherwood-Randall and the U.S. delegation will participate in
the fourth meeting of the Trilateral Fentanyl Committee with our Mexican
and Canadian partners. This committee of high-level officials from the
United States, Mexico, and Canada was established in 2023 by President
Biden, President López Obrador, and Prime Minister Justin Trudeau to
develop and implement aggressive actions to counter the production,
smuggling, distribution, and consumption of illicit fentanyl and other
synthetic drugs in North America.

\###
