---
date: '2024-02-21'
modified_time: 2024-02-27 11:50:24-05:00
published_time: 2024-02-21 06:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/02/21/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-initiative-to-bolster-cybersecurity-of-u-s-ports/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Announces Initiative to Bolster\
  \ Cybersecurity of U.S.\_Ports"
---
 
Today, the Biden-Harris Administration will issue an Executive Order to
bolster the security of the nation’s ports, alongside a series of
additional actions that will strengthen maritime cybersecurity, fortify
our supply chains and strengthen the United States industrial base. The
Administration will also announce its intent to bring domestic onshore
manufacturing capacity back to America to provide safe, secure cranes to
U.S. ports – thanks to an over $20 billion investment in U.S. port
infrastructure under President Biden’s Investing in America Agenda.
Today’s actions are clear examples of the President’s work to invest in
America, [secure the country’s supply
chains](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/02/24/executive-order-on-americas-supply-chains/),
and [strengthen the cybersecurity of our nation’s critical
infrastructure](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/05/12/fact-sheet-president-signs-executive-order-charting-new-course-to-improve-the-nations-cybersecurity-and-protect-federal-government-networks/)
against 21<sup>st</sup> century threats – priorities his Administration
has focused on relentlessly since taking office.

America’s prosperity is directly linked to maritime trade and the
integrated network of ports, terminals, vessels, waterways, and
land-side connections that constitute the Nation’s Marine Transportation
System (MTS). This complex system supports $5.4 trillion worth of
economic activity each year, contributes to the employment of more than
31 million Americans, and supports nearly 95% of cargo entering the
U.S.   
The security of our critical infrastructure remains a national
imperative in an increasingly complex threat environment. MTS owners and
operators rely on digital systems to enable their operations, to include
ship navigation, the movement of cargo, engineering, safety, and
security monitoring. These systems have revolutionized the maritime
shipping industry and American supply chains by enhancing the speed and
efficiency of moving goods to market, but the increasing digital
interconnectedness of our economy and supply chains have also introduced
vulnerabilities that, if exploited, could have cascading impacts on
America’s ports, the economy, and everyday hard-working Americans.

Today’s actions include:

**President Biden will sign an Executive Order to bolster the Department
of Homeland Security’s authority to directly address maritime cyber
threats, including through cybersecurity standards to ensure that
American ports’ networks and systems are secure.** Now, the U.S. Coast
Guard will have the express authority to respond to malicious cyber
activity in the nation’s MTS by requiring vessels and waterfront
facilities to mitigate cyber conditions that may endanger the safety of
a vessel, facility, or harbor. The Executive Order will also institute
mandatory reporting of cyber incidents – or active cyber threats –
endangering any vessel, harbor, port, or waterfront facility.
Additionally, the Coast Guard will now have the authority to control the
movement of vessels that present a known or suspected cyber threat to
U.S. maritime infrastructure, and be able to inspect those vessels and
facilities that pose a threat to our cybersecurity. 

**The U.S. Coast Guard will issue a Maritime Security Directive on cyber
risk management actions for ship-to-shore cranes manufactured by the
People’s Republic of China located at U.S. Commercial Strategic
Seaports.** Owners and operators of these cranes must acknowledge the
directive and take a series of actions on these cranes and associated
Information Technology (IT) and Operational Technology (OT) systems.
This action is a vital step to securing our maritime infrastructure’s
digital ecosystem and addresses several vulnerabilities that have been
identified in the updated [U.S. Maritime Advisory, 2024-00X – Worldwide
Foreign Adversarial Technological, Physical, and Cyber
Influence](https://www.maritime.dot.gov/msci/2024-002-worldwide-foreign-adversarial-technological-physical-and-cyber-influence),
that was released today.

**The U.S. Coast Guard has issued a [Notice of Proposed Rulemaking on
Cybersecurity](https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2024/02/22/2024-03075/cybersecurity-in-the-marine-transportation-system)
in the Marine Transportation System. ** Every day malicious cyber actors
attempt to gain unauthorized access to MTS control systems and networks
throughout the nation. The Proposed Rule will strengthen these digital
systems by establishing minimum cybersecurity requirements that meet
international and industry-recognized standards to best manage cyber
threats. These actions build on prior actions by DHS including those
taken by the Transportation Security Administration, and reflect the
Administration’s commitment to leverage regulatory requirements in
pursuit of safeguarding critical infrastructure.

**The Administration continues to deliver for the American people by
rebuilding the U.S.’s industrial capacity to produce port cranes with
trusted partners.** The Administration will invest over $20 billion,
including through grants, into U.S. port infrastructure over the next 5
years through the President’s Investing in America Agenda, including the
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and the Inflation Reduction Act. As a
result, **PACECO Corp.,** a U.S.-based subsidiary of Mitsui E&S Co., Ltd
(Japan), is planning to onshore U.S. manufacturing capacity for its
crane production. PACECO has a deep history in the container shipping
industry, manufacturing the first dedicated ship-to-shore container
crane in 1958 as PACECO Inc., and it continued U.S.-based crane
manufacturing until the late 1980s. PACECO intends to partner with other
trusted manufacturing companies to bring port crane manufacturing
capabilities back to the U.S. for the first time in 30 years, pending
final site and partner selection.   
The announcement is part of the Biden-Harris Administration’s fourth
Investing in America tour, where White House and Administration
officials are traveling across the country to highlight the impacts of
the President’s Investing in America agenda on communities, families,
small businesses and the United States’ economic and national security.
It also follows-up on the White House Council on Supply Chain
Resilience’s efforts to strengthen America’s supply chains, particularly
by addressing supply chain risks resulting from threats and
vulnerabilities inside U.S. ports. 

\###
