---
date: '2024-02-29'
published_time: 2024-02-29 20:44:53-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/02/29/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-celebrates-third-anniversary-of-the-reestablishment-of-the-white-house-office-of-faith-based-and-neighborhood-partnerships/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Celebrates Third Anniversary\
  \ of the Reestablishment of the White\_House Office of Faith-Based and Neighborhood\
  \ Partnerships"
---
 
Three years ago this month, President Biden signed an executive
order [reestablishing](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/02/14/fact-sheet-president-biden-reestablishes-the-white-house-office-of-faith-based-and-neighborhood-partnerships) the
White House Office of Faith-Based and Neighborhood Partnerships
(“Partnerships Office”). The Partnerships Office is an essential part of
the Biden-Harris Administration’s plan to bring people of all
backgrounds and beliefs together to meet our challenges, build a more
perfect union, and restore the soul of our country. The Partnerships
Office works with agency Centers for Faith-Based and Neighborhood
Partnerships at the Departments
of [Agriculture](https://www.usda.gov/ocr/eia/fbnp), [Commerce](https://www.commerce.gov/bureaus-and-offices/os/faith-based-and-neighborhood-partnerships), [Education](https://sites.ed.gov/cfbnp/), [Health
and Human
Services](https://www.hhs.gov/about/agencies/iea/partnerships/index.html), [Homeland
Security](https://www.dhs.gov/faith), [Housing and Urban
Development](https://www.hud.gov/offices/fbci), [Justice](https://www.justice.gov/),
and [Veterans Affairs](https://www.va.gov/cfbnp/); the [United States
Agency for International
Development](https://www.usaid.gov/partner-with-us/faith-based-and-neighborhood-partnerships);
and the [Small Business Administration](https://www.sba.gov/); as well
as staff
at [AmeriCorps](https://www.americorps.gov/partner/communities-initiatives),
the [Environmental Protection
Agency](http://www.energystar.gov/congregations), and the [Department of
Labor](https://www.dol.gov/). Over the past year, this team has
partnered with a wide range of faith-based and neighborhood
organizations to advance shared priorities. Administration achievements
include:

**Safeguarding the right to practice faith without fear and other
aspects of religious freedom**

·       Secured the
greatest [funding](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/01/12/a-proclamation-on-religious-freedom-day-2024/) increase
in our nation’s history for the [Nonprofit Security Grant
Program](https://www.fema.gov/grants/preparedness/nonprofit-security) to
bolster physical security for nonprofits, including churches, gurdwaras,
mosques, synagogues, temples, and other places of worship. Created
a [guide](https://www.fema.gov/blog/take-these-4-steps-apply-nonprofit-security-grant) to
apply for this program, increased applications by 50%,
and [trained](https://www.cisa.gov/topics/physical-security/protecting-houses-worship) more
than 7,600 faith leaders on maintaining [safe places of
worship](https://www.fema.gov/event/protecting-places-worship-fall-religious-observance-security-briefing).

·       Released the [National Strategy to Counter
Antisemitism](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/05/25/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-releases-first-ever-u-s-national-strategy-to-counter-antisemitism/), and [announced](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/11/01/statement-from-white-house-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-on-president-bidens-establishment-of-first-ever-national-strategy-to-counter-islamophobia/) the
development of a National Strategy to Counter Islamophobia and Related
Forms of Bias and Discrimination.[These
efforts](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/09/28/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-takes-landmark-step-to-counter-antisemitism/) include
the following actions promoting religious freedom: 

o   [Produced](https://www.hhs.gov/about/news/2024/01/25/hhs-office-civil-rights-issues-guidance-to-clarifying-obligations-ensure-religious-non-discrimination-patient-visitation.html) [materials](https://www.hhs.gov/civil-rights/for-individuals/special-topics/emergency-preparedness/faqs-patient-visitation/index.html) for
medical schools and health care providers on preventing discrimination
in patient care, including on the basis of religion.

o   Increased access to all USDA feeding programs for USDA customers
with religious dietary needs, including those who need [kosher and halal
food](https://www.ams.usda.gov/content/usda-seeks-information-expand-kosher-and-halal-food-options-its-nutrition-assistance).

o   Distributed [materials](https://www.eeoc.gov/religious-discrimination) on
nondiscrimination and workplace religious accommodations to employers
and employees.

o   Developed [Allied Against Hate: A Toolkit for Faith
Communities](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/10/Allied-Against-Hate_A-Toolkit-for-Faith-Communities_September-2023.pdf) to
help more Americans stand in solidarity across faiths to counter hate in
all its forms. 

**·       Released
updated **[guidance](https://www2.ed.gov/policy/gen/guid/religionandschools/prayer_guidance.html)** on
protected prayer and other religious expression in public elementary and
secondary schools.**

·       Launched [Building Bridges in Development: USAID’s Strategic
Religious Engagement
Policy](https://www.usaid.gov/policy/strategicreligiousengagement) to
affirm the important role religious leaders play in locally led
development and humanitarian assistance.

**·       Celebrated the 25<sup>th</sup> anniversary of
the**[International Religious Freedom
Act](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/10/27/statement-from-president-joe-biden-on-the-25th-anniversary-of-the-international-religious-freedom-act/) and
continued to use its **tools to give voice to the persecuted, empower
advocates, and promote religious freedom around the world.**

**·       Reestablished the Department of Justice’s Center for
Faith-Based and Neighborhood Partnerships and installed Sim Singh
Attariwala as director, the first Sikh American to lead an agency
Center.**

**·       **Launched the [Free to
Learn](https://safesupportivelearning.ed.gov/free-learn) [campaign](https://bestpracticesclearinghouse.ed.gov/resource-library.aspx?EquityFocus=4) [to
help](https://oese.ed.gov/files/2023/10/23-0083.BSCA-FAQs-approved-April-Final-Updated-October-2023.pdf)educational
institutions prevent hate-based threats and bullying, recover from
hate-based violence, and enhance overall school safety.

·       Expressed intent [to amend DHS
regulations](https://www.reginfo.gov/public/do/eAgendaViewRule?pubId=202310&RIN=1615-AC88) in
order to increase flexibilities for certain nonimmigrant workers,
including religious workers.

**Promoting health and supporting veterans**

·       Launched the M.O.M.S. (Maternal Outcomes Matter Showers) Tour in
support of the [White House Blueprint for Addressing the Maternal Health
Crisis](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/06/Maternal-Health-Blueprint.pdf),
holding events in eleven cities and serving over 5,000 mothers and
families.

·        Engaged more than 17,000 faith and community leaders to help
families maintain health coverage by renewing their Medicaid coverage or
enrolling in health plans
through[Healthcare.gov](https://www.healthcare.gov/). Created [public
service
announcements](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tt8yX5tfA24) (PSAs) and
a [frequently asked
questions](https://www.hhs.gov/sites/default/files/faq-on-post-pandemic-medicaid-and-chip-reenrollment.pdf) document
to increase awareness about Medicaid eligibility and coverage options.

-   Trained over 3,000 USDA customer-facing staff on the unique mental
    health challenges facing farmers and agricultural workers, and
    engaged 1,000 faith leaders to share USDA’s [Farm & Ranch Stress
    Assistance
    Network](https://www.nifa.usda.gov/grants/programs/farm-ranch-stress-assistance-network-frsan) resources.

·       Engaged minority communities in suicide prevention by producing
PSAs about [988, the National Suicide and Crisis
Lifeline](https://988lifeline.org/) for [Black](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_E-5u8435us), [Muslim](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yRjEp6jJyJM),
and [Hindu](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nM7SZWmCRXQ&t=5s) communities.  

·       Helped veterans across the country receive the services and care
they deserve by raising awareness about the [PACT
Act](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/08/10/fact-sheet-in-first-year-president-bidens-bipartisan-pact-act-delivers-care-for-veterans-in-all-50-states-and-u-s-territories-and-advances-unity-agenda/)—the
most significant expansion of benefits and services for toxic-exposed
veterans and survivors in over thirty years.

·       Provided over 300 [gun
locks](https://www.va.gov/reach/lethal-means) to veteran-affiliated
communities as part of the [White House Strategy to Reduce Military and
Veteran
Suicide](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/11/02/fact-sheet-new-strategy-outlines-five-priorities-for-reducing-military-and-veteran-suicide/). 

·       Coordinated with 100 faith-based and community organizations to
create [veteran welcome
centers](https://www.va.gov/CFBNP/VeteransMinistry_WelcomeCenter.asp) to
connect veterans, family members, caregivers, and survivors to
Department of Veterans Affairs services.

**Expanding opportunity for all Americans**

·       Assisted more than 113,000 low-income Americans with tax
preparation through[AmeriCorps
programs](https://americorps.gov/newsroom/press-release/low-income-americans-receive-record-84-million-tax-relief-nationwide),
returning more than $84 million to eligible families. 

·       Hosted the [Department of Commerce National Partnerships
Summit](https://www.commerce.gov/news/speeches/2022/10/remarks-deputy-secretary-commerce-don-graves-faith-based-national-partnership) and
convened the first-ever Commerce summits for Muslim American and Jewish
American leaders to promote job creation, economic growth, and equity by
providing information on small business loans, export promotion
assistance, climate resilience support, and access to data and
technology. Also connected young people to jobs, internships, and
apprenticeships through the first [Department of Commerce National Youth
Summit](https://www.commerce.gov/2023-national-youth-summit), which
convened over 350 youth in-person and over 2,000 youth online.

·       Addressed the housing needs of older Americans by training more
than 2,500 members of faith-based and community organizations to assist
renters over the age of 65 with cost-burden spending, and to leverage
the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) [Section 202
Supportive Housing for the Elderly
Program](https://www.hud.gov/program_offices/housing/mfh/progdesc/eld202),
which helps nonprofits develop supportive housing for the elderly. 

·       Added [187,000 tutors, mentors, and
coaches](https://www.partnershipstudentsuccess.org/2022-23_principals_survey/) to
public schools through the[National Partnership for Student
Success](https://www.partnershipstudentsuccess.org/about/).

·       Supported efforts to increase the supply of safe and affordable
housing for low-income and homeless families by offering technical
assistance related to the [Housing Trust
Fund](https://www.hudexchange.info/programs/htf/), which provides grants
to states to produce and preserve affordable housing.

**·       **Trained Tribal leaders to leverage [HUD
grants](https://www.hud.gov/codetalk)to expand affordable housing,
address infrastructure needs, and increase homeownership.

·       Coordinated Small Business Sunday events with houses of worship
to
help [small](https://www.sba.gov/) and [minority-owned](https://www.sba.gov/business-guide/grow-your-business/minority-owned-businesses) businesses
grow and thrive.

**Responding to natural disasters and protecting the environment**

·       Partnered with faith-based and community organizations to
support the federal response to disasters
in [Alabama](https://www.fema.gov/disaster/4684), [California](https://www.fema.gov/disaster/4683), [Florida](https://www.fema.gov/disaster/current/hurricane-idalia), [Guam](https://www.fema.gov/disaster/4715), [Hawaii](https://www.fema.gov/disaster/4724), [Illinois](https://www.fema.gov/disaster/4728), [Puerto
Rico](https://www.fema.gov/press-release/20221221/icymi-fema-dhs-center-faith-based-and-neighborhood-partnerships-host-0),
and[Vermont](https://www.fema.gov/disaster/4720).

·       Co-hosted
a [roundtable](https://www.fema.gov/press-release/20230310/icymi-biden-harris-administration-black-resilience-network-highlight) with
Black faith-based and community organizations to share best practices
for a whole-of-community approach to climate resilience and proactive
engagement with historically underserved populations.

·       Reached more than 850 emergency management, nonprofit, and faith
leaders in a webinar series designed to increase support for LGBTQ+
persons [before](https://www.fema.gov/event/helping-lgbtq-community-disasters-preparedness-and-mitigation-considerations), [during
and after
disasters](https://www.fema.gov/event/helping-lgbtq-survivors-after-disasters-response-and-recovery-considerations).

·       Developed [Guide to Expanding Mitigation: Making the Connection
to Faith-Based
Partners](https://www.fema.gov/sites/default/files/documents/fema_making-connection-faith-based_012024.pdf),
and shared [Building Alliances for Climate
Action](https://www.fema.gov/partnerships/resilient-nation-partnership-network/building-alliances) with
faith-based and community leaders at the United Nations Climate
Conference. 

·       Created [Energy and Water Efficiency Checklist for Worship
Facilities](https://us-west-2.protection.sophos.com/?d=energystar.gov&u=aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuZW5lcmd5c3Rhci5nb3Yvc2l0ZXMvZGVmYXVsdC9maWxlcy90b29scy9FU19DaGVja2xpc3RfV29yc2hpcF9GYWNpbGl0aWVzXzIwMjMucGRm&p=m&i=NjRiOTRkNGJmNjliNDUzNjQ0OTY5MmMw&t=RzVUbStZZU1Zdkdrd1lMcS9qZi9SR1QreFc4VTVEZ1dmZG1yV2ptSzc1UT0=&h=b8a2b09c50564bbcab287bad6c60d9d4&s=AVNPUEhUT0NFTkNSWVBUSVZCgv4XjBaDvKYgKTqyPMpX7VuwzBYdsslty-WLVvp6sw) and
the [Energy and Water Checklist for Camps and
Retreats](https://us-west-2.protection.sophos.com/?d=energystar.gov&u=aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuZW5lcmd5c3Rhci5nb3Yvc2l0ZXMvZGVmYXVsdC9maWxlcy90b29scy9FU19DaGVja2xpc3RfQ2FtcHNfMjAyM18wLnBkZg==&p=m&i=NjRiOTRkNGJmNjliNDUzNjQ0OTY5MmMw&t=YUN6cmRqcDZ3ckNGYVcrQm9iNmNVamhsWWtGbGw2WFB6WkU3MENjNUUxOD0=&h=b8a2b09c50564bbcab287bad6c60d9d4&s=AVNPUEhUT0NFTkNSWVBUSVZCgv4XjBaDvKYgKTqyPMpX7VuwzBYdsslty-WLVvp6sw)** **to
share best practices for reducing greenhouse gas emissions related to
facility operations, and to support sustainability and financial
stewardship, including at America’s approximately 6,000 diverse
religious camps and retreats.
