---
date: '2024-02-14'
modified_time: 2024-02-14 19:43:03-05:00
published_time: 2024-02-14 19:43:02-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/02/14/fact-sheet-presidents-interagency-task-force-to-monitor-and-combat-trafficking-in-persons-meeting/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: President\u2019s Interagency Task Force to Monitor and Combat\
  \ Trafficking in Persons\_Meeting"
---
 
On February 13, 2024, the President’s Interagency Task Force to Monitor
and Combat Trafficking in Persons (PITF), a cabinet-level entity that
coordinates the federal government’s anti-trafficking efforts, met at
the White House to reaffirm its commitment to combat human trafficking.
Secretary of State Antony Blinken, who chairs the PITF, presided over
the meeting alongside other senior White House officials and principals
from 20 participating federal agencies, including Attorney General
Merrick Garland; Secretary of the Interior Deb Haaland; Secretary of
Agriculture Tom Vilsack; Acting Secretary of Labor Julie Su; Secretary
of Health and Human Services, Xavier Becerra Secretary of Homeland
Security Alejandro Mayorkas; Director of National Intelligence Avril
Haines, United States Trade Representative Katherine Tai; and Director
of the Office of Management and Budget Shalanda Young.   
  
The leaders of the PITF departments and agencies highlighted their
efforts to address all forms of human trafficking and to implement the
key priorities of the federal government’s National Action Plan. Senior
White House officials, including Domestic Policy Advisor Neera Tanden,
Gender Policy Council Director Jennifer Klein, and Homeland Security
Advisor Dr. Liz Sherwood-Randall also addressed the task force and
discussed the Federal Government’s work to prevent human trafficking,
prosecute perpetrators, and protect survivors. U.S. Advisory Council on
Human Trafficking member Sameer Jain presented on the Council’s 2023
Annual Report, which offers recommendations for how the Federal
Government can strengthen its policies and programs to counter human
trafficking.   
  
Secretary Blinken also recognized two recipients of the Presidential
Award for Extraordinary Efforts to Combat Trafficking in Persons for
their extraordinary efforts to prevent human trafficking, prosecute
traffickers, and protect and partner with survivors.  
  
Below are some of the interagency priorities planned for 2024, organized
by the pillars of the National Action Plan: prevention, protection,
prosecution, and partnerships.

**<u>Prevention</u>**

  
Awareness is the first step to combat human trafficking, and the
departments and agencies of the PITF are committed to educating our
government personnel, the public, and vulnerable communities on
recognizing and reporting human trafficking at our schools, in our
communities and in our supply chains.  PITF departments and agencies are
tailoring trainings to their authorities and to meet the needs of their
personnel and stakeholders, all with the same goal: to raise awareness
to stop this abhorrent crime that targets the most vulnerable
communities.    
  
The **Department of Labor** is investing more resources in identifying
forced labor and child labor risks in the products that are part of our
everyday lives to ensure that we avoid importing those goods into the
United States. This effort will include publishing national surveys on
forced labor in Nigeria and Mongolia and sectoral surveys on garments in
Argentina and Madagascar. The Department will also update its List of
Goods Produced by Child Labor or Forced Labor in the fall, based on
findings from over a dozen Department of Labor-funded supply chain
tracing projects that looked at globally traded goods in mining,
agriculture, and manufacturing.  
  
The **Department of Health and Human Services (HHS)** will publish the
National Human Trafficking Prevention Framework with violence prevention
strategies and approaches for communities to stop human trafficking
before it occurs, reduce its impact, and prevent it from recurring.The
Department will spotlight prevention partnerships throughout the year
and make $1 million in awards under the HHS Innovation Challenge to
Prevent Human Trafficking Among Women and Girls.It will also release new
public awareness materials informed by survivors and launch the National
Advisory Committee on the Trafficking of Children and Youth in the
United States.  
  
**The Department of State(State)** will launch a training resource that
focuses on how to conduct trauma-informed interviews and conversations
for personnel at our embassies and consulates who may interview or
converse with survivors of human trafficking.  This work follows State’s
recent release of online training, “Understanding Trauma and
Trauma-Informed Approaches,” which is available to the public and
provides tips for engaging with potential victims and survivors of
trafficking without further traumatizing them.  The training was
designed in partnership with survivors and other trauma experts.  
  
As part of its Farm Labor Stabilization and Protection Pilot Program,
the **Department of Agriculture** will work to increase standards and
worker protections for agricultural workers.  Employers engaged in the
grant program must ensure ethical, safe recruitment of any workers
employed through the seasonal H-2A visa program in addition to ensuring
all workers have access to a know-your-rights-and-resources training,
among other requirements.  
  
In addition, several PITF departments and agencies will provide tailored
trainings this year.  The **Department of Education** will host webinars
that cover a range of issues, to include talking with youth about
trafficking and child exploitation; implementing anti-trafficking
strategies; supporting survivors who have experienced exploitation; and
setting up trafficking/exploitation prevention programs in schools.  The
**Department of Defense** will overhaul its specialized training for its
training  staff and develop a new refresher to continue promoting its
combating trafficking in persons message to its 3.4 million military and
civilian personnel. The **Department of Commerce** will offer training
that identifies and addresses possible violations of  
forced labor in supply chains.

**<u>Protection</u>**

  
PITF agencies over the next year commit to do more to protect and assist
human trafficking victims in rebuilding their lives by offering
survivor-centered and trauma-informed services, such as crisis
intervention, job training, education, and other services.  PITF
departments and agencies anticipate that the increased use of
victim-centered strategies will make it more likely that victims will
safely come forward, report to law enforcement, and participate as
witnesses in law enforcement investigations and prosecutions.  The PITF
departments and agencies will be involved in a wide range of efforts
aimed at protecting victims of human trafficking.  Some of those efforts
include:    
  
The **Department of Homeland Security (DHS)** will select a Senior
Victim-Centered Approach Official to further institutionalize victim
identification and support capacity across the Department.  DHS will
also launch an online application and processing system for U.S. law
enforcement nationwide to expedite and expand its ability to request
Continued Presence for human trafficking victims.  Continued Presence is
an immigration designation that permits human trafficking victims who
may help in an investigation to remain in the United States with work
authorization, which can help victims and survivors more quickly restore
self-sufficiency and seek justice.   
  
**State** will launch a new foreign assistance program, the Partnership
to Prevent (P2P) Human Trafficking.  This new program, like the Child
Protection Compact Partnerships, will fund multi-year commitments
developed jointly by the United States and selected partner countries
that document shared objectives to advance national and local level
efforts to effectively prevent trafficking, prosecute traffickers, and
provide trauma-informed care for survivors.   
  
The **U.S. Agency for International Development** (USAID) will support
foreign governments and civil society efforts to combat human
trafficking with survivor-centered approaches.  As one example, in
Thailand, USAID is piloting communication technology to improve
connectivity and safety for fishers while at sea and promoting industry
adoption of ethical recruitment practices.        
  
**HHS** will continue to connect thousands of survivors of human
trafficking to housing, health, and other critical services through a
national network of community-based organizations.  HHS will also
continue to strengthen partnerships to respond to calls from every state
and U.S. territory through the National Human Trafficking Hotline, which
received nearly 8,000 calls, chats, and text messages directly from
survivors last year.

**<u>Prosecution</u>**

  
Investigating and prosecuting human traffickers present a distinct set
of challenges, but the PITF departments and agencies remain committed to
using their unique authorities to hold accountable individuals and
entities engaged in human trafficking and to dismantle human trafficking
networks.  Over the next year, we will employ a broad range of
non-criminal enforcement tools, build the capacity of our law
enforcement agencies, and strengthen criminal enforcement capabilities
through improved coordination among enforcement partners.   
  
The **Department of Treasury** will hold traffickers accountable by
working with interagency partners to develop targeted sanctions to
disrupt human trafficking activities. Since December 2022, Treasury has
designated 23 persons for conduct related to human trafficking,
including for serious human rights abuse aboard People’s Republic of
China-flagged distant water fishing vessels, and for systemic and
pervasive sex trafficking activity.  
  
The **Department of the Interior** will continue to work with the United
States Attorneys’ Offices and state law enforcement officials to
establish standard law enforcement response protocols throughout Indian
Country.  This year, the Department will also be completing a
cloud-based Solution Trust Accountability Tracker (STAT), which
catalogues information on missing persons, murder and human trafficking
cases relating to Native American and Alaska Native victims.  STAT will
help inform suspect identification and facilitate the exchange of
information with investigators in tribal communities and the Federal
Bureau of Investigation.  
  
The **Department of Justice (DOJ)** will continue bringing high-impact
sex trafficking and labor trafficking prosecutions in partnership with
federal, state, local, tribal, and territorial law enforcement
partners.  The DOJ-led Interagency Forced Labor Initiative Steering
Group will enhance information-sharing protocols with partners in the
education, child protection, social service, and occupational health and
safety sectors to more effectively identify children who are especially
vulnerable to labor exploitation and forced labor.  The Steering Group
is intensifying its focus on forced child labor due to the prevalence of
complaints and indicators involving child labor exploitation and forced
child labor.   
  
In addition, **DOJ** will launch a Human Trafficking Strategic
Initiative of the Organized Crime and Drug Enforcement Task Force that
will mobilize additional federal, state, and local law enforcement
partners in investigations involving transnational organized and
gang-related human trafficking threats.  

**<u>Partnerships</u>**

  
Finally, the more the PITF departments and agencies share information
across the government and with external partners; coordinate efforts
domestically and with foreign partners; integrate survivor input; and
strengthen our understanding of human trafficking, the more progress we
will make to end it.  In 2024, the PITF department and agencies will
work on several efforts, some of which include:  
  
The **Department of Transportation** will award a $50,000 Combating
Human Trafficking in Transportation Impact
[Award](https://www.transportation.gov/TLAHT/Award) to incentivize
individuals and entities to think creatively in developing innovative
solutions to combat human trafficking in the transportation industry,
and to share those innovations with the broader community.  Submissions
for the 2024 Award are open until March 11, 2024, and full details are
available in the [Federal Register
Notice](https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2024/01/09/2024-00215/solicitation-for-annual-combating-human-trafficking-in-transportation-impact-award).  
  
**State** will build on its partnership with the U.S. Advisory Council
on Human Trafficking and the Department’s Human Trafficking Expert
Consultant Network to incorporate trauma-informed and survivor-informed
approaches in its anti-trafficking efforts.  The Network, comprising
individuals with lived experience of human trafficking and other subject
matter experts, created the first of its kind resource for Department
staff conducting international site visits and meetings at shelters for
victims and survivors.   
  
**HHS** will announce and implement the Anti-Trafficking Leadership,
Innovation, and Sustainability Project, which provides 10 or more awards
of $20,000 and technical assistance to survivors of human trafficking to
meet local needs to prevent and respond to human trafficking.    
  
The **U.S. Trade Representative** (USTR) will release its Forced Labor
Trade Strategy this year.The Strategy will examine the range of trade
tools available to address forced labor, highlight new approaches and
prioritize efforts to combat forced labor through trade policy and
engagement.  USTR solicited input from all relevant stakeholders, to
include labor organizations, governments, civil society, survivors, and
businesses.   
  
The **Departments of the Interior and Justice** are committed to
implementing recommendations from the Not Invisible Act Commission’s
November 2023 report: Not One More: Findings and Recommendations of the
Not Invisible Act Commission to the United States’ Congress and federal
agencies. Next steps in 2024 include: adding resources needed for tribal
law enforcement recruitment and retention, increased data collection,
survivor and family services, cross jurisdictional coordination, among
other critical issues.  
  
**This fact sheet offers only a snapshot of the Administration’s plans
for 2024**.  Numerous documents have guided our work this past year,
including [the National Action Plan to Combat Human
Trafficking](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/12/National-Action-Plan-to-Combat-Human-Trafficking.pdf),
the October 2023 [Report of the White House H-2B Worker Protection
Taskforce](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/10/H-2B-Worker-Protection-Taskforce-Report.pdf),
the [U.S. Advisory Council on Human Trafficking Annual Report
2022](https://www.state.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/09/2022-Annual-Report-FINAL_Web-Version_508.pdf),
and the [State Department’s 2023 Trafficking in Persons
Report.](https://www.state.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/09/Trafficking-in-Persons-Report-2023_Introduction-V3e.pdf)

\###
