---
date: '2024-02-04'
published_time: 2024-02-04 20:36:28-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/02/04/statement-from-vice-president-kamala-harris-on-the-bipartisan-senate-national-security-agreement/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement from Vice President Kamala\_Harris on the Bipartisan Senate National\
  \ Security\_Agreement"
---
 
Our immigration system has been broken for decades. That is why
President Biden and I have spent the last three years putting forward
solutions to fix it and address the root causes of migration.  
  
On the first day of our Administration, we sent a comprehensive
immigration reform bill to Congress that included an increase in funding
for border security and a pathway to citizenship for immigrants, such as
Dreamers who have been here for years.  
  
We have partnered with countries in the Western Hemisphere to address
global pressures that are forcing people from their homes, and worked
with the private sector to promote investment in Central America. Last
October, as part of our national security supplemental request, we asked
for $14 billion for border security, which would increase personnel and
technology to secure the border and provide assistance to cities to
manage the influx of migrants.  
  
At each step, we have been clear: Congress must act. Unfortunately, we
have too often been met with those who sought to play political games
instead of participating in solutions.  
  
For the past two months, President Biden, members of our Administration,
and bipartisan Senate negotiators have worked together. Thanks to their
collaboration, additional solutions are now at hand. Congress must
quickly pass this agreement.  
  
This package will also ensure that the United States can continue to
fulfill its role of global leadership by supporting the people of
Ukraine in their brave fight against unprovoked Russian aggression;
providing Israel what it needs to defend itself against Hamas
terrorists; ensuring life-saving humanitarian assistance to the
Palestinian people; and strengthening our allies and partners in the
Indo-Pacific.  
  
This agreement on border security and immigration does not include
everything we have fought for over the past three years — and we will
continue to fight for these priorities – but it shows: we can make the
border more secure while preserving legal immigration, consistent with
our values as a nation.  
  
Let us remember: we are a nation of immigrants. Immigrants have always
helped strengthen our country, grow our economy, and drive innovation.
We know that in America, diversity is our strength. So rather
than politicize this issue, let us all address it with the urgency and
seriousness it requires.

\###
