---
date: '2024-02-29'
modified_time: 2024-02-29 12:55:51-05:00
published_time: 2024-02-29 15:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/02/29/president-biden-announces-key-nominees-67/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key\_Nominees"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
the following individuals to serve as key leaders in his Administration.

-   Marty Walsh, Nominee for Governor, United States Postal Service
-   Judy W. Chang, Nominee to be a Commissioner on the Federal Energy
    Regulatory Commission
-   David Rosner, Nominee to be a Commissioner on the Federal Energy
    Regulatory Commission
-   Lindsay S. See, Nominee to be a Commissioner on the Federal Energy
    Regulatory Commission
-   Dana L. Banks, Nominee for U.S. Director of the African Development
    Bank 
-   Elizabeth K. Horst, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
    Plenipotentiary to the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
-   Joshua M. Harris, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
    Plenipotentiary to the People’s Democratic Republic of Algeria
-   Troy Fitrell, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
    Plenipotentiary to the Republic of Seychelles
-   Mary E. Daschbach, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
    Plenipotentiary to the Togolese Republic

**<u>Marty Walsh, Nominee for Governor, United States Postal
Service</u>**

Marty Walsh has spent his life fighting for working people, as a labor
leader, as a public official and as a private citizen. The son of Irish
immigrants, Walsh was born and raised in Boston’s Dorchester
neighborhood. He started out by following in his father’s footsteps as a
union construction worker, rising to become president of Laborers Local
223 in Boston and eventually head of the Greater Boston Building Trades
Council, representing roughly 35,000 blue-collar workers on major
construction projects across the region. In 1997, at the age of 29,
Walsh won election to the Massachusetts House of Representatives, where
he spent 16 years fighting for workers’ rights and good jobs. A champion
for civil rights, he took a courageous early stand for marriage
equality, supported communities of color, immigrants, seniors, veterans
and he served as a State House leader on substance abuse treatment and
recovery support. In 2013, he was elected Mayor of Boston, an office he
served in for seven years. He led Boston through a period of historic
success, growing the city’s economy, reducing crime, investing in
schools and libraries, and ending chronic homelessness among veterans in
the city. His groundbreaking policies included the nation’s first
municipal Office of Recovery Services, paid parental leave for city
employees, climate action and flood protection strategies, universal
pre-kindergarten and free community college for low-income students.

In January 2021, President Joe Biden nominated Walsh to serve as the
29<sup>th</sup> Secretary of Labor of the United States. After taking
office during the COVID-19 pandemic, Walsh worked to support both
laid-off and frontline workers. He subsequently leveraged the
President’s historic economic recovery to strengthen worker power and
improve job quality. During his two years in office, Walsh brought
high-quality job training programs to millions of Americans,
strengthened mental health support and access to treatment, and ushered
in a historic surge in worker organizing. In February 2023, Walsh was
appointed as the Executive Director of the National Hockey League
Players’ Association, returning to his roots as a labor leader where he
can continue to champion the importance of workers’ rights and the
shared benefits of collective bargaining for all.

Walsh is someone who never forgets where he came from. A survivor of
Burkitt’s Lymphoma as a child, he has fought to expand access to
healthcare for all. Embracing recovery from alcoholism as a young man,
he has always believed in compassion and second chances. Grateful for
the role that unions played in helping his immigrant family join the
middle class, he co-founded pre-apprenticeship programs that have become
national models in helping people of color, women and justice-involved
individuals enjoy successful construction careers as union members. He
is a graduate of Boston College and shares his life with his long-time
partner, Lorrie Higgins.

**<u>Federal Energy Regulatory Commission</u>**

By statute, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission shall be composed
of five members, with no more than three from the same political party.
See is the nominee recommended by the Senate Minority Leader Mitch
McConnell.

**<u>Judy Chang, Nominee to be a Commissioner on the Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission</u>**

Judy Chang is an energy economics and policy expert with more than 20
years of experience working with energy companies, trade associations,
and governments on regulatory and financial issues, particularly as they
relate to investment decisions in energy transmission, clean energy, and
energy storage. She is the former Undersecretary of Energy and Climate
Solutions for Massachusetts, a role in which she led efforts to set
policies across the Commonwealth’s energy sector and align strategies
and plans to meet legal requirements for climate change mitigation.
Chang has presented and testified before US federal and state agencies
and regulatory authorities in Canada on topics related to energy
resource deployment; energy contracts; transmission planning, access,
and pricing; and electricity market design. She has presented her work
at industry conferences and academic seminars on energy and
environmental policies. Chang has taught as an Adjunct Lecturer in
Public Policy at the Harvard Kennedy School and is a Senior Fellow at
the Kennedy School’s Mossavar-Rahmani Center for Business and
Government. She serves as an ambassador for the US Department of
Energy’s Clean Energy Education & Empowerment Initiative, which has the
goal of advancing women’s leadership in clean energy and is a founding
board member of New England Women in Energy and the Environment. She
holds a Master of Public Policy from Harvard Kennedy School and a
Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from
the University of California, Davis.

**<u>David Rosner, Nominee to be a Commissioner on the Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission</u>**

David Rosner has fifteen years of experience across energy technologies,
market design, and energy policy issues, both in and outside of
government. He is an energy industry analyst for the Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission, currently on detail to the U.S. Senate Energy and
Natural Resources Committee Democratic staff. During his time at the
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Rosner led efforts related to the
Commission’s rulemaking on energy storage resources, electric
transmission, offshore wind integration, fuel security, and natural
gas-electric coordination.

Rosner was previously a senior policy advisor at the U.S. Department of
Energy’s Office of Energy Policy and Systems Analysis and an associate
director at the Bipartisan Policy Center’s energy project. Rosner holds
degrees in economics and public policy.

**<u>Lindsay S. See, Nominee to be a Commissioner on the Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission</u>**

Lindsay S. See is the Solicitor General of West Virginia, where she
manages appellate and high-stakes litigation for the State of West
Virginia. She also routinely appears before the Supreme Court of Appeals
of West Virginia and the Fourth Circuit, as well as other state and
federal courts. In addition to managing West Virginia’s civil and
criminal appellate dockets, her work focuses on regulatory and
administrative law matters, and she leads and works with multi-state
coalitions on a variety of national issues. After law school summers
working for an anti-trafficking NGO and the Department of Justice’s
Child Exploitation and Obscenity Section, she now deeply appreciates the
opportunity to be part of her office’s work in child protection and
foster care related litigation. 

See previously practiced appellate and administrative law for several
years with Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher in Washington, D.C. She graduated
magna cum laude from Harvard Law School and clerked for the Hon. Thomas
B. Griffith on the D.C. Circuit. Originally from Michigan, See now
considers herself both a proud Michigander and Mountaineer. 

**<u>Dana L. Banks, Nominee for U.S. Director of the African Development
Bank</u>**

Dana L. Banks currently serves as a Senior Advisor to the U.S. Chamber
of Commerce’s Africa Business Center, supporting the private sector in
Africa and the $15 billion of commitments made during President Biden’s
2022 U.S. Africa Leaders Summit.

Banks served on the National Security Council from 2021 to 2023 as
Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Africa where
she led U.S.-Africa policy for the Biden-Harris Administration and
coordinated the 2022 U.S. Africa-Leaders Summit. Banks was Deputy
Director of the Foreign Service Institute’s Leadership and Management
School’s Executive Development Division. She served as Deputy Political
Counselor at the U.S. Embassy in South Africa, Deputy Chief of Mission
at the U.S. Embassy in Togo, and Public Affairs Officer at the U.S.
Embassy in Tanzania. In Washington, Banks served in Secretary Clinton’s
Executive Secretariat, as a Senior Watch Officer in the State
Department’s Operations Center, as Special Assistant to the Assistant
Secretary for Africa, and Desk Officer for Ghana, Benin, Togo, and
Burkina Faso. Her other overseas assignments include Haiti and Thailand.

A native of Philadelphia, PA, Banks is a Life Member of the Council on
Foreign Relations. She received her Bachelor’s Degree from Spelman
College and her Master’s degree from Syracuse University’s Maxwell
School. She is the recipient of numerous State Department Superior and
Meritorious Honor awards. She is an alumna of the Institute for Career
Advancement Fellow and a Pickering Foreign Affairs Fellow.

**<u>Elizabeth K. Horst, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary to the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka</u>**

Elizabeth K. Horst, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service with
the rank of Minister-Counselor, is currently the Principal Deputy
Assistant Secretary and responsible for Pakistan and for Public
Diplomacy in the Bureau of South and Central Asian Affairs. Previously,
she served in Berlin as Minister Counselor for Public Diplomacy for
Mission Germany. As Chargé d’Affaires, ad interim, and Deputy Chief of
Mission at the U.S. Embassy in Tallinn, Estonia, she focused on
transatlantic security on NATO’s eastern flank. Other overseas
assignments include Kyiv, Ukraine; the U.S. military Provincial
Reconstruction Team (PRT) in Qalat, Zabul Province, Afghanistan; Moscow,
Russia; Dushanbe, Tajikistan; and Lahore, Pakistan. Prior to joining the
Foreign Service, Horst served as a Peace Corps volunteer in Niger, West
Africa. A native of Minnesota, Horst holds a B.A. from the University of
Kansas and a master’s degree from the University of North Carolina. She
speaks German, Russian, and French.****

**<u>Joshua M. Harris, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary to the People’s Democratic Republic of Algeria</u>**

Joshua M. Harris, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service with the
rank of Counselor, is currently the Deputy Assistant Secretary of State
for North African Affairs in the Bureau of Near Eastern Affairs,
overseeing U.S. diplomacy with Algeria, Egypt, Libya, Morocco, and
Tunisia. Previously, Harris served as Director for North African Affairs
at the National Security Council, coordinating the development and
implementation of U.S. policies in the Maghreb region. Harris also
served as Deputy Chief of Mission and Chargé d’Affaires, ad interim, at
the U.S. Embassy in Tripoli, Libya and at the Libya External Office in
Tunis, Tunisia. Earlier assignments included Acting Deputy Assistant
Secretary of State and Director of the Office of Maghreb Affairs in the
Department’s Bureau of Near Eastern Affairs; Policy Director to the
Special Presidential Envoy for the Global Coalition to Defeat the
Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS) and Director for Iraq at the
National Security Council. Other overseas assignments included
Ljubljana, Slovenia; Baghdad, Iraq; and Zagreb, Croatia. Harris is a
graduate of the Edmund A. Walsh School of Foreign Service at Georgetown
University and the London School of Economics and Political Science. He
speaks Arabic, Croatian, French, Italian, Polish, and Slovenian.

**<u>Troy Fitrell, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary to the Republic of Seychelles</u>**

Troy Fitrell, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of
Minister-Counselor, currently serves as the U.S. Ambassador to the
Republic of Guinea. Previously, he was the director of the Office of
West African Affairs at the Department of State and, prior to that, he
served as Deputy Chief of Mission at the U.S. embassies in Ethiopia and
Mauritius, and as Deputy Director of the Department’s Office of Southern
African Affairs. Earlier, he was Senior Advisor to the United States
Special Envoy for the Great Lakes of Africa, coordinating U.S. policy on
the cross-border security, political, and economic issues in the Great
Lakes region. Fitrell served as a Pearson Fellow on the staff of the
House Foreign Affairs Committee. In that position, he divided his time
between Asia and Pacific issues, including sovereignty in the South
China Sea, and African issues, including developments in democracy in
Ethiopia and Kenya. Fitrell earned a B.A. at the University of Maryland
and an M.S. at the National War College. He speaks French, Spanish,
Portuguese, Swedish and Danish.

**<u>Mary E. Daschbach, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary to the Togolese Republic</u>**

Mary E. Daschbach, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service with
the rank of Counselor, is currently Deputy Chief of Mission in the
Republic of Cameroon, where she also served as Chargé d’Affaires, ad
interim. Prior to that, she served as Senior Foreign Policy Advisor to
the Strategy, Engagement, and Programs Directorate at U.S. Africa
Command. Earlier, Daschbach was the Deputy Chief of Mission and Chargé
d’Affaires, ad interim. in the Republic of the Congo, Public Affairs
Officer in Lomé, Togo, and Information Officer in Accra, Ghana. Apart
from her work in Africa, other Foreign Service assignments include
London, United Kingdom; San José, Costa Rica; and Washington, D.C. as
the Desk Officer for Paraguay and Uruguay, and Director for South and
Central Asia in the Bureau of International Information Programs. Her
first overseas assignment with the U.S. government was as the Associate
Peace Corps Director for Management in Cotonou, Benin. Daschbach began
her government career at the Community Relations Service office of the
Department of Justice. Prior to her government service, Daschbach was
employed by Associates for International Research, Inc. in Cambridge,
MA. She taught French at the Cambridge School of Weston, MA and worked
at Beacon Press in Boston, MA. A resident of Rhode Island, Daschbach has
an M.A. in National Security and Strategic Studies from the College of
Naval Warfare and a B.A. from Yale University. She speaks French and
Spanish.

  
   

\###
