---
date: '2024-02-24'
modified_time: 2024-02-24 13:43:52-05:00
published_time: 2024-02-24 13:43:51-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/02/24/g7-leaders-statement-7/
tags: statements-releases
title: "G7 Leaders\u2019 Statement"
---
 
We the Leaders of the Group of Seven (G7) met today with Ukrainian
President Volodymyr Zelenskyy to reaffirm our unwavering support for
Ukraine and salute once more the bravery and resilience of the Ukrainian
people who have been fighting tirelessly for Ukraine’s freedom and
democratic future.  
  
They have resisted for two years Russia’s illegal, unjustifiable, and
unprovoked full-scale invasion which constitutes a blatant violation of
the UN Charter. They have proven their will to defeat President Putin’s
war machine, restore their nation’s territorial integrity, and defend
Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence.  
  
President Putin has failed to achieve his strategic objective of
subjugating Ukraine. Instead, he is forcing his own people to pay a
heavy price for his government’s reckless actions each day. He has
drained Russia’s resources to fund an unnecessary war, torn Russian
families apart, and claimed hundreds of thousands of Russian lives.  
  
We remain convinced that we can ensure the people of Ukraine prevail in
fighting for their future and help to forge a comprehensive, just and
durable peace.  
  
On this occasion, we also pay tribute to the extraordinary courage of
Alexei Navalny and stand with his wife, children, and loved ones. He
sacrificed his life fighting against the Kremlin’s corruption and for
free and fair elections in Russia. We call on the Russian government to
fully clarify the circumstances around his death. We equally call on the
Russian government to free all unjustly detained prisoners and to stop
the persecution of political opposition and the systematic repression of
Russians’ rights and freedoms. We will hold those culpable for Navalny’s
death accountable, including by continuing to impose restrictive
measures in response to human rights violations and abuses in Russia and
taking other actions.  
  
**1.** We will continue to support Ukraine’s right to self-defence and
reiterate our commitment to Ukraine’s long-term security, including by
concluding and implementing bilateral security commitments and
arrangements, based on the Joint Declaration of Support for Ukraine we
endorsed in Vilnius last July. We are stepping up our security
assistance to Ukraine and are increasing our production and delivery
capabilities, to assist the country.

Ten years after the Maidan protests, we stand with the Ukrainian
government and people as they buttress the foundations of their
democratic state through vital reforms, especially to reinforce their
justice system and rule of law, and tackle corruption. These endeavours
are part of Ukraine’s path to Euro-Atlantic integration. We praise
Ukraine’s achievements to date and welcome the European Council’s
decision last December to open accession negotiations with Ukraine. We
welcome Ukraine’s progress towards meeting the IMF Extended Fund
Facility programme’s conditionality.

Russia must not succeed in wrecking Ukraine’s economy to make up for its
failures on the battlefield. We will help Ukraine meet its urgent
financing needs, and assist other vulnerable countries severely affected
by the impacts of Russia’s war. We strongly welcome the EU’s approval of
the Ukraine Facility of EUR 50 billion. It will provide crucial
financial support to Ukraine until 2027. We also welcome additional
economic support others have approved as we seek to close Ukraine’s
remaining financing gap, as well as Japan’s swift delivery of its budget
support in the first quarter of 2024 and Canada’s new funding. We urge
the approval of additional support to close Ukraine’s remaining budget
gap for 2024.

Ukraine’s reconstruction, starting with early recovery measures, remains
a key priority. We will continue to work, with the Ukrainian authorities
and International Financial Institutions through the Multi-agency Donor
Coordination Platform for Ukraine and by leveraging private investments.
We welcome the Platform’s expansion to include the Republic of Korea,
Norway, Sweden, and the Netherlands. Further to the successful
Japan-Ukraine Conference for Promotion of Economic Growth and
Reconstruction, we look forward to the Ukraine Recovery Conferences, to
be hosted in Berlin in 2024 and in Rome in 2025.

**2.** We call on Russia to immediately cease its war of aggression and
completely and unconditionally withdraw its military forces from the
internationally recognized territory of Ukraine. We call on all
countries to uphold international law and in no way validate or condone
Russia’s attempts to acquire territory by force. We will never recognise
so-called “elections”, past and future, held by Russia in the
territories of Ukraine, nor their results. Russia’s stated intention to
hold votes for its Presidential elections in Ukrainian regions is an
outrageous violation of Ukraine’s sovereignty.

We strongly condemn Russia’s continuous brutal attacks on civilians and
critical civil infrastructure and war crimes committed by Russian forces
in Ukraine, including sexual violence. We strongly condemn Russia’s
human rights violations in the territories Russia occupies. We remain
committed to holding those responsible accountable for their atrocities
against the people of Ukraine, in line with international law. We
support investigations by the Prosecutor of the International Criminal
Court, the Prosecutor-General of Ukraine, and other national prosecutors
within their jurisdictions. We welcome ongoing discussions in the Core
Group, exploring the establishment of a tribunal for the crime of
aggression against Ukraine. We call on Russia to release all persons it
has unlawfully detained and to safely return all civilians it has
illegally transferred or deported, starting with thousands of children.
We welcome the International Coalition for the Return of Ukrainian
Children, launched by Ukraine and Canada. We also stress the importance
of advancing towards an exchange of all prisoners of war and welcome
efforts in this regard by other partner countries and actors. Finally,
we will continue to support Ukrainian displaced persons and refugees and
protect those in need. We reiterate our support for the Council of
Europe Register of Damage for Ukraine.

As Russia’s war of aggression against Ukraine continues to undermine
global food security, we celebrate Ukraine’s success in significantly
expanding food exports through the Black Sea, which will help feed the
world. Thanks to Ukraine’s maritime corridor and the EU’s solidarity
lanes, Ukraine is on track to export all grain from its 2023 harvest
despite Russia’s attacks on Ukrainian ports and its withdrawal from the
Black Sea Grain Initiative. We will continue to help Ukraine export its
grain and agricultural products to the most vulnerable nations,
including through the implementation of the Grain Verification Scheme
that Ukraine will lead this year. We call on Russia to cease its efforts
to weaponize food supply and support safe commercial navigation of the
Black Sea.

Russia’s irresponsible nuclear rhetoric, its posture of strategic
intimidation and its undermining of arms control regimes are
unacceptable. Threats by Russia of nuclear weapon use, let alone any use
of nuclear weapons by Russia, in the context of its war of aggression
against Ukraine are inadmissible.

**3.** We will continue to raise the cost of Russia’s war, degrade
Russia’s sources of revenue and impede its efforts to build its war
machine, as demonstrated by our recently approved sanctions packages. We
remain committed to fully implementing and enforcing our sanctions on
Russia and adopting new measures as necessary. We continue to counter,
in close cooperation with third countries, any attempts to evade and
circumvent our sanctions and export control measures. We will impose
additional sanctions on companies and individuals in third countries who
help Russia acquire weapons or key inputs for weapons.  We will also
impose sanctions on those who help Russia acquire tools and other
equipment that aid Russian weapons production or military-industrial
development.

We will continue to apply significant pressure on Russian revenues from
energy and other commodities. We will continue to take steps to tighten
compliance and enforcement of the oil price cap. While working to
maintain supply stability, we will respond to price cap violations,
including by imposing additional sanctions measures on those engaged in
deceptive practices while transporting Russian oil and against the
networks Russia has developed to extract additional revenue from price
cap violations. We will continue taking steps to limit Russia’s future
energy revenues. We will continue to impede Russia’s development of
future energy projects and disrupt its development of alternatives for
energy shipping and other services. We will continue efforts to reduce
Russia’s revenues from metals.

We will continue to take action against third-country actors who
materially support Russia’s war including by imposing additional
measures on entities, where appropriate, in third countries. We call on
financial institutions to refrain from supporting Russia’s war machine
and we will take appropriate steps, consistent with our legal systems,
to deter this behaviour. Financial institutions and other entities that
facilitate Russia’s acquisition of items or equipment for its defence
industrial base are supporting actions that undermine the territorial
integrity, sovereignty, and independence of Ukraine. We strongly condemn
North Korea’s exports and Russia’s procurement of North Korea’s
ballistic missiles in direct violation of relevant UNSCRs and call upon
them to immediately cease such activities. We call upon Iran to stop
assisting the Russian military and its war in Ukraine. We express our
concern about transfers to Russia from businesses in the People’s
Republic of China of dual-use materials and components for weapons and
equipment for military production.

It is not right for Russia to decide if or when it will pay for the
damage it has caused in Ukraine. These damages now exceed USD486
billion, according to the World Bank.  Russia’s obligations under
international law to pay for the damage it is causing are clear.  We are
determined to dispel any false notion that time is on Russia’s side,
that destroying infrastructure and livelihoods has no consequences for
Russia, or that Russia could prevail by causing Ukraine to fail
economically. Russia should not be able to indefinitely delay payment it
owes. We recognize the urgency of disrupting Russia’s attempts to
destroy the Ukrainian economy and Russia’s continued failure to abide by
its international law obligations. We are determined to ensure full
accountability and we support Ukraine in obtaining compensation for the
loss, injury and damage resulting from Russia’s aggression.

We welcome the adoption of the EU legal acts concerning extraordinary
revenues of central securities depositories gained from Russia’s
immobilised sovereign assets and encourage further steps to enable their
use, consistent with applicable contractual obligations and in
accordance with applicable laws.  We ask our ministers to continue their
work and update ahead of the Apulia Summit on all possible avenues by
which immobilized Russian sovereign assets could be made use of to
support Ukraine, consistent with our respective legal systems and
international law.

**4.** As we move forward, we continue our support to Ukraine in further
developing President Zelenskyy’s Peace Formula and commit ourselves to
supporting a comprehensive, just and lasting peace consistent with the
principles of the UN Charter, international law and respectful of
Ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity. As Ukraine enters the
third year of this relentless war, its government and its people can
count on the G7’s support for as long as it takes.

  
\###
