---
date: '2024-02-09'
modified_time: 2024-02-14 13:42:05-05:00
published_time: 2024-02-09 22:29:26-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/02/09/readout-of-white-house-community-violence-awareness-week-and-culminating-ceremony/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of White\_House Community Violence Awareness Week and Culminating\_\
  Ceremony"
---
 
Today, the Vice President and the White House Office of Gun Violence
Prevention (OGVP) hosted Community Violence Intervention leaders from
across the country to recognize their efforts in reducing and preventing
violence, and ultimately, saving lives. Community Violence Intervention
programs are a key piece of the [President’s Safer America
Plan](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/08/01/fact-sheet-president-bidens-safer-america-plan-2/),
with some behavioral science-informed CVI programs proven to [reduce
violence by close to
50%](https://crimelab.uchicago.edu/wp-content/uploads/sites/2/2023/06/ChoosetoChangeResearchBrief.pdf).

The event at the White House included a recognition of the inaugural
graduating cohort of the University of Chicago Crime Lab’s Community
Violence Intervention Leadership Academy (CVILA), which provides
Community Violence Intervention (CVI) leaders with the skills and
resources they need to improve their organizations and support their
mission to prevent and reduce gun violence and save lives in communities
disproportionately harmed by the direct and indirect consequences of gun
violence. 

In recognizing the CVILA cohort, Vice President Harris remarked, “The
brilliance of this inaugural class and its leaders is the ability to see
what can be, unburdened by what has been, and then to make it real in a
way that will be replicated around our country. I congratulate everyone
here and the graduates for all you have put into this and all you do for
your communities.”

**The Vice President’s full remarks can be viewed here:** [**Community
Violence Awareness Week Culminating Ceremony
(youtube.com)**](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8wzoLTM4tQk)

The Community Violence Awareness Week culminating ceremony followed a
week of activity by the Office of Gun Violence Prevention, which kicked
off its Community Violence Awareness Week with a message from the
President to gun violence prevention stakeholders nationwide.

Other events for the week included.

-   **Tuesday**: a convening of Black elected officials from across the
    nation to discuss the unique impacts of gun violence on the Black
    community and the significance of evidence-informed and
    community-centered initiatives to disrupt violence
-   **Wednesday**: a virtual briefing with over 800 state legislators,
    local leaders, and gun violence advocates on the various community
    safety programs that are available through the Departments of Labor,
    Education, and Justice to support community violence intervention,
    ensuring all interested stakeholders have an opportunity to learn
    about the plethora of resources available to them thanks to
    President Biden’s American Rescue Plan (ARP) and the Bipartisan
    Safer Communities Act (BSCA), as well as other federal programs.
-    **Thursday**: the White House Office of Gun Violence Prevention
    travelled to Philadelphia and joined leaders from the Mayor’s
    Office, local law enforcement and survivors to see CVI strategies in
    action, including the New Options, More Opportunities (NOMO)
    Foundation, PowerCorpsPHL (an affiliate of AmeriCorps) and the
    Temple University Hospital Victims Advocate program.  
-   **Friday**: a national call with Black leaders to discuss the
    actions taken by OGVP and the President to reduce gun violence in
    Black communities.

Biden-Harris Administration continues to make major investments in
community violence intervention and other proven solutions to end the
epidemic of gun violence. The American Rescue Plan (ARP) has provided
over $15 billion to prevent crime and promote public safety, including
community violence intervention programs and crisis responders, while
Bipartisan Safer Community Act —the most significant gun safety
legislation in the last 30 years—provides $250 million in funding for
community-based violence prevention initiatives, in addition to key
investments for schools to expand mental health services and violence
intervention programs. 

We are already seeing the positive impacts of the President’s strategy
to prevent and reduce crime and gun violence nationwide. According to
2023 FBI data, [there has been a significant drop in
crime](https://www.nytimes.com/2023/12/29/us/crime-data-fbi-homicides.html) –
including one of the largest yearly declines in homicides ever. By
comparison, during the final year of the prior administration in 2020,
the United States saw the largest increase in murders ever recorded. We
have also seen key provisions created by the BCSA begin to deliver
results in making communities safer against gun violence, including
recent announcements by the Department of Justice on [stopping more than
500 illegal gun
purchases](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/01/05/statement-from-president-joe-biden-on-stopping-over-500-illegal-under-21-gun-purchases-through-the-bipartisan-safer-communities-act/#:~:text=January%2005%2C%202024-,Statement%20from%20President%20Joe%20Biden%20on%20Stopping%20Over%20500%20Illegal,the%20Bipartisan%20Safer%20Communities%20Act&text=Today%20is%20an%20important%20milestone,fabric%20of%20our%20nation%20apart.) by
people under 21 years old who presented a danger to our communities,
and [hundreds of charges brought by the Justice
Department](https://www.washingtonpost.com/national-security/2023/12/04/gun-law-arrests-seizures/) for
illegal gun purchases and firearms trafficking.

The President knows that more can and must be done, which is why OGVP,
overseen by Vice President Kamala Harris, continues to implement BSCA
and identify executive orders to save lives, while announcing new
initiatives to encourage action at the state and local level. This past
December, the Vice President convened 100 state legislators at the White
House to launch [the Biden-Harris Administration’s Safer States
Initiative](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/12/OGVP-Safer-States-Policy-Agenda.pdf),
providing states with additional tools and the support they need to
reduce gun violence—and we have already seen states begin to [answer the
call and implement these critical
measures](https://www.washingtonpost.com/dc-md-va/2024/01/09/maryland-juvenile-justice-wes-moore/).
Last month, the Office of Gun Violence Prevention, in partnership with
the U.S. Department of Education and the Department of Justice, also
announced [new executive actions to help promote safe storage of
firearms](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/01/25/white-house-announces-new-actions-to-promote-safe-storage-of-firearms/) that
implement President Biden’s Executive Order on promoting safe gun
storage, which has been shown to dramatically reduce children’s risk of
self-inflicted harm and unintentional shootings. These are just a few
examples of the progress that is being made under the leadership of
President Biden and Vice President Harris to protect our communities,
schools and children, and end the epidemic of gun violence that is
leaving empty seats at dinner tables across the country. 

The President continues to call on Congress to listen to the majority of
Americans—and the majority of gunowners—who want to see more commonsense
gun safety measures, such as universal background checks, a ban on
assault weapons and high-capacity magazines, an end to the gun
industry’s immunity from liability, and the passing of a national red
flag law. As the President has said, this senseless violence is not
normal and it is fully within our power to stop it.

\###
