---
tags: press-briefings
date: '2022-02-22'
modified_time: 2022-02-22 23:13:41-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/02/22/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-and-deputy-national-security-advisor-for-international-economics-and-deputy-nec-director-daleep-singh-february-22-2022/
published_time: 2022-02-22 23:13:40-05:00
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Jen\_Psaki and Deputy National Security\
  \ Advisor for International Economics and Deputy NEC Director Daleep Singh, February\
  \ 22,\_2022"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

5:23 P.M. EST

MS. PSAKI:  Hi, everyone.  Good evening.  Okay, well, back by popular
demand, just a few days after his first engagement with us, Daleep is
here.  He is going to give some brief remarks at the top about the
sanctions announcement today. 

He has a hard out, so he’s only going to be — be able to take a few
questions today, but we’re grateful to have you here.  So I’ll kick it
over to you.

MR. SINGH:  Russia’s long-previewed invasion of Ukraine has begun and
so, too, has our response.  Today, the President responded swiftly and
in lockstep with Allies and partners.  The speed and coordination was
historic.  In previous sanctions regimes, it took weeks and months to
mount a decisive response. This time, we announced our first tranche of
sanctions in less than a day and in lockstep with Allies and partners in
the European Union, the United Kingdom, Canada, Japan, and Australia. 

Let me say a few words about the details of the package. 

(A cellphone disrupts the briefing.)

First —

MS. PSAKI:  Hi.  (Laughter.)

MR. SINGH:  Hello.  There’s no easy segue from that.  (Laughter.)

Q    The sanctions —

MR. SINGH:  (Laughs.)  Close your ears.

First, after consultations overnight with Germany, Russia’s Nord Stream
2 natural gas pipeline will not become operational.  That’s an $11
billion investment in a prized gas pipeline controlled by Russia that
will now go to waste, and it sacrifices what would have been a cash cow
for Russia’s coffers.

But it’s not just about the money.  This decision will relieve Russia’s
geostrategic chokehold over Europe through its supply of gas, and it’s a
major turning point in the world’s energy independence from Russia. 

Second, we’ve demonstrated the potency of our financial sanctions.  And
make — make no mistake: This is only the sharp edge of the pain we can
inflict.

In lockstep with our Allies, we’re fully blocking from the global
financial system the fifth-largest Russian financial institution,
V.E.B.  This is a glorified piggybank for the Kremlin that holds more
than $50 billion in assets. 

We’re also fully blocking Promsvyazbank.  This is a bank that holds $35
billion in assets that finances the activities of the Russian military. 

In plain English, full — full block means these banks can no longer make
any transactions with the U.S. nor with Europe, as Europe matched our
actions, and their assets in our respective financial systems will be
frozen. 

And let me be totally clear: No Russian financial institution is safe if
the invasion proceeds.  We are ready to press a button to take action on
the two largest Russian financial institutions, which collectively hold
almost $750 billion in assets — or more than half of the total in the
Russian banking system.

Third, together with our Allies, we’ve also cut off the Russian
government, the Russian Central Bank, and Russian sovereign wealth funds
from new financing from the U.S. and Europe.  The Kremlin can no longer
raise money from the U.S. or Europe, and its new debt can no longer
trade on U.S. or European financial markets. 

Fourth, we have fully sanctioned a group of Russian elites and their
family members.  These individuals share in the corrupt gains of the
Kremlin, and they will now share in the pain.  Other Russian elites and
their family members are now on notice that additional actions could be
taken on them as well. 

I also want to take a minute to address a key part of the President’s
speech on energy markets.  We were deliberate to direct the pain of our
sanctions towards the Russian economy, not ours.  None of our measures
are designed to disrupt the flow of energy to global markets.  And we
are now executing a plan in coordination with major oil producers and
major oil consumers to secure the stability of global energy supplies.

Let me just end where I started: This was the beginning of an invasion,
and this is the beginning of our response.  The actions we took today
were only the first tranche.

If Putin escalates further, we will escalate further using financial
sanctions and export controls, which we’ve yet to unveil but which are
fully prepared to implement with Allies and partners across the world. 

Lastly, make no mistake: Our response goes well beyond sanctions and
export controls.  We’re continuing to fortify NATO’s eastern flank to
reinforce our sacred Article 5 commitment to defend every inch of NATO
territory. 

Just today, the President announced that additional troops and equipment
will be shifted within Europe to the Baltics.  We’ll continue to provide
defensive assistance to Ukraine.

Already, over the past year, we’ve provided $650 <s>billion</s>
\[million\] to this effect — the most of any year.  And we’ll continue
to work with Allies and partners to provide economic assistance to
Ukraine with the ide- — idea being: We want to create a successful
alternative in Ukraine to Russian-style kleptocracy, which may be
Putin’s greatest fear of all.

MS. PSAKI:  Josh.

MR. SINGH:  Thank you.

Q    Hi.  Thank you.  Can you speak a little bit more about the energy
component?  What tools do you have in the tool chest, given that there’s
been an effort ongoing now for several months to control the price
increases that we’re seeing for gasoline in particular?  What can you do
to help energy prices not spike the way that President Biden appears to
worry that will?

MR. SINGH:  Yeah.  So this is an ongoing effort and a sensitive effort. 
I can give you a bit — a bit of detail on what that involves. 

Number one, it involves coordinating our actions with major energy
<s>producers</s> \[consumers\].  We all have reserves at our disposal,
and those reserves could help support the supply of energy worldwide. 

Number two, we’re working closely with major energy producers.  Many of
them have — several of them have the spare capacity to provide supply to
global energy markets and to balance the market in the event of any
supply disruption. 

Number three, we can work with energy companies to surge their capacity
to supply energy to the market, particularly as prices rise.

And number four, we can be very clear that if President Putin weaponizes
energy supply, it will be met with massive consequences and it will only
accelerate the diversification of Europe and the world away from Russian
energy.  
  
Q    And can you speak, quickly, to the decision to what seems to be
delinking the sanctions?  Initially, the President was signaling if
there is an invasion or a further invasion that the sanctions would come
full stop, one swoop.  Now we’re seeing, sort of, more of a tit-for-tat
approach.  You’re warning here today that if President Putin goes
further, so will the sanctions.  
  
Can you walk us through that process at all?  It seems like the U.S. is
now breaking its sanction package into chunks, whereas the expectation
had been that it would come all at once.

MR. SINGH:  Yeah.  Well, look, today’s package is a severe action — I
walked through the elements of it — with Nord Stream, the financial
sanctions, sovereign debt, and the elites.   
  
Number two, it’s just the beginning.  This was the beginning of an
invasion; this is just the beginning of our response.  
  
But number three — and this really gets to your question, I think, most
fundamentally: No one should think that it’s our goal to max out on
sanctions.  Sanctions are not an end to themselves.  They serve a higher
purpose.  And that purpose is to deter and prevent. 

They’re meant to prevent and deter a large-scale invasion of Ukraine
that could involve the seizure of major cities, including Kyiv.  They’re
meant to prevent large-scale human suffering that could involve tens of
thousands of casualties in a conflict.  And they’re meant to prevent the
installation of a puppet government, controlled by Moscow, that
subjugates the will of Ukraine and prevents the people of Ukraine from
choosing their own destiny and setting their own course.  That’s what
this is all about.

MS. PSAKI:  Cecilia.  
  
Q    What’s it going to take to target Putin directly?

MR. SINGH:  I’m not going to —  
  
Q    Why not do that today?  
  
MR. SINGH:  I’m not going to telegraph exactly what it would take and
under what circumstances that would occur.  But no option is off the
table, as the President said.  
  
Q    But the EU President said today “this is the most dangerous moment
in European security in a generation.”  So if not today, when?  What?  
  
MR. SINGH:  Look, as I say, we mounted a very significant response
today; we can escalate that response further.  There are a number of
actions we can take using financial sanctions, export controls,
fortifying our eastern flank, helping Ukraine defend itself, helping
each other deal with the costs and consequences of Russia’s invasion,
and, most importantly, having a shared confidence among Allies in our
way of life, our economic model, our political model.  
  
If Russia wants to sequester itself from Western technology, the Western
economy, and from Western financial markets, that is a bad strategic
choice for Russia.  But we’re going to step up in solidarity to advance
our values and principles.

MS. PSAKI:  Zeke.  
  
Q    Thanks.  You mentioned that sanctions are meant to deter and
prevent, but the fact of the matter is the sanctions you’re announcing
today and announced last night did not deter or prevent Russia’s actions
yesterday and over the weekend.  What gives you any confidence that the
remaining sanctions that haven’t been imposed yet can deter or prevent a
further Russian invasion and aggression in Ukraine?

MR. SINGH:  Well, look, it’s — it’s day one.  And President Putin has
choices to make; we have choices to make.  Our job is to manage risks
and to impose consequences for a further escalation of this conflict by
President Putin.   
  
We can do that through financial sanctions.  We can do that through
export controls.  We can do that through fortifying NATO’s eastern
flank.  We can do that through providing defensive assistance to
Ukraine.  We can do that by being prepared for any energy market impact
that occurs from Russia’s choices.  Those are the choices that are
within our disposal.   
  
And let me just take a step back and talk about sanctions.  You know, we
have principles that matter in terms of how we design a sanctions
package.  They need to be powerful enough to demonstrate our resolve and
the capacity to impose overwhelming costs.  They should be calibrated
such that we can maximize coordination with our Allies and partners. 
They should maintain flexibility so we can escalate or deescalate
depending on what Putin does.  They should be responsible so that we
avoid unwanted spillovers to the U.S. and global economy.  And they need
to be sustainable.  They work over time, not on day one.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Weijia is going to have to be the last one.  
  
Q    Mr. Singh, can you tell us why Putin himself was not sanctioned?  
  
Q    Okay.  Thank you.  So just to follow up —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I think —  
  
Q    I mean, I know you’re trying to explain —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Weijia is going to ask a question.  Simon, you got —  
  
Q    — because when you are doing it by —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Simon, you got a question last week.  So we’re just trying
to diversify it a little bit.  
  
Q    Yeah, I just wanted to — 

Q    Can we have an answer to that one, though?

MS. PSAKI:  Simon, can you let Weijia ask a question?  Thank you.  Go
ahead, Weijia.  
  
Q    Thank you.  I know that you just talked about all the actions that
you’re taking to counter any oil shortages that might drive up gas
prices.  But today, the President himself was very blunt about how they
could impact Americans.  So can you just give us a sense of when
Americans might feel a difference when they fill up their gas tanks?  
  
And then, secondly, to follow up on what Zeke was just asking, both you
and the President said today that these sanctions will be in response,
will be — if Putin escalates, you will escalate.  So that sounds like
they are going to be in response now and not meant to deter.  So do you
still view them as being a deterrence, or are they just a punishment at
this point?

MR. SINGH:  Yeah.  So the first question on energy markets and the
impact of our actions and when they’ll take effect in markets: Look,
again, I — I don’t want to go into specifics, but there are actions that
energy consumers can take with their strategic reserves.  There are
actions that energy producers can take in terms of their spare
capacity.  There are actions that energy producers can undertake to
increase their production of energy in the current circumstance. 

And I’m not going to give you a timeline, but the collective power of
those actions and all the other tools and authorities that are at our
disposal, plus diplomatic maneuvers that are at — that are at our
disposal — collectively, we think, will be effective in bringing down
the price of gas and the price of oil.

MS. PSAKI:  Thank you, Daleep.  Thank you so much for joining us.  He
will come back, I promise.  And I promised he would not be too late for
his meeting.  So thank you so much for joining us. 

Okay.  I apologize to those of you who did not get questions from
Daleep.  We will have him back, and we will make him available in other
capacities as well to all of you. 

I have one very unrelated no- — but still very important item for you at
the top, and then we’ll get back to our discussion. 

Today in Arizona, Interior Secretary Deb Haaland announced the Interior
Department’s plan to fulfill settlements of Indian water rights claims
using historic funding from President Biden’s Bipartisan Infrastructure
Law.

The Infrastructure Law provides $2.5 billion to implement the Indian
Water Rights Settlement Completion Fund, which will help deliver
long-promised water resources to Tribes and a foundation for future
economic development for entire communities dependent on common water
resources.

Following feedback from the Tribal consul- — from Tribal consultations,
the Department will allocate $1.7 billion this year alone from the
Infrastructure Law to enact — to enacted settlements that have
outstanding federal payments necessary to complete their terms.

With that, Zeke, why don’t you kick us off.  And we will get around to
as many people as possible, and I realize it’s already late.  Go ahead.

MS. PSAKI:  Thanks, Jen.  If you could walk through the events of the
last 24 hours.  Last night, a senior administration official on a
background call with reporters briefed — a briefing on the
administration’s response and said that Russia has occupied these
regions since 2014 and that Russian troops moving into the Donbas would
not in and of — would not — it would not itself be a new step and didn’t
use the word “invasion.”

This morning, the Deputy National Security Advisor said “invasion,” and
the President is using “invasion.” 

What changed in the last 24 hours?  What did you see on the ground that
changed the U.S. government’s assessment of what is actually happening
in eastern Ukraine?

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Well, I’m not going — I know this isn’t exactly what
you’re asking.  But just to set the precedent here, I’m not going to be
confirming military movements from the podium now or at any point
probably.  But what I can tell you is what we looked at is the events of
the last less than 24 hours, Zeke.  Right?  And what we have seen is
President Putin setting up a rationale to take more territory by force. 

What we’re basing that on — including the comments of the Deputy
National Security Advisor this morning and then the President’s comments
later in the afternoon — is a couple of things: One, Vladimir Putin
announced yesterday that he was basically planning to carve out a chunk
of Ukraine by recognizing two regions of Ukraine as independent.  He
brazenly asserted these regions are no longer part of Ukrainian
sovereign territory.  Last night, he authorized Russian forces to deploy
into these regions.  Today, he sought authorizations — authorization
from the Duma for the Russian military to use force outside of Russian
territory.  And today, he asserted that these regions actually extend
deeper into Ukraine, claiming larger areas currently under jurisdiction
of the Ukrainian government. 

So, what we’re seeing there — and as for anybody who read or paid
attention to his lengthy speech last night — is the rationale to go much
further.  That is what we are also watching very closely. 

And this com- — for this combination of reasons, we see this as the
beginning of a further invasion of Ukraine.  But we look at and we
assess over the course of a short period of time.

Q    And — but right now, could you say whether or not the U.S.
government believes that there’s been additional deployments of Russian
forces — active forces — across the border into Ukraine?  They’ve been
there for years, but additional forces.

MS. PSAKI:  I’m not going to get into military assessments of military
movements from here.

Q    And then on a separate topic, the President — Daleep talked to this
as well — warned Americans over the last several weeks that they have to
— they should be prepared to bear the cost of standing up for Ukraine’s
sovereignty.  And, you know, there’s been a lot of conversation about
this.  And I was hoping you could maybe speak to — clarify this a little
bit: Why should Americans, you know, feel that they have to — you know,
that is a cost that they should have to bear and that should affect
their lives?  And how much should they be prepared for this, you know,
geopolitical crisis to impact their day-to-day living?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think what, hopefully, the American people who are
tuning into this or have been tuning into this will see is that the
President of the United States and his entire national security
apparatus have been rallying the world and standing up against the
efforts of Russia to invade and take — and carve out a chunk of another
country for their own.  And that is — the world is standing with the
United States against the actions of President Putin. 

Now, why does that matter?  I realize that’s what you’re asking me.  Why
does that matter to the American people?  That should matter because
that is a fundamental value that we, as a country, stand up for, and we
stand up against that type of action.  That goes back to World War Two.
 And we have repeatedly throughout history been leaders in the world in
rallying support <s>for</s> \[against\] any efforts to seize territory
from another country. 

What the — when the President spoke to the American people last week, it
was very important to him to be very direct and clear and
straightforward with them about what this could mean as we looked to
what the impact of an invasion could mean and also what the impact of
sanctions could mean, and the fact that standing up for values is not
without cost, including in this case — including, potentially, in this
scenario.

Now, as Daleep just conveyed, what the President has said to his
national security team is he wants to leave no stone unturned.  He wants
them to take every step possible to tap into the resources of global
suppliers, to present to him any option that will reduce the impact on
the American people.  And even as he’s looking at sanctions, he is
taking that into account. 

But this is about standing up for American values and making — and he
wanted to make clear to them what impact that could have.

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Jen.  Given what Secretary Blinken just announced about
his meeting with Lavrov on Thursday, is a summit between the President
and Putin out of the question now?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, we’re never going to completely close the door to
diplomacy, and I don’t think the Secretary of State did that either. 

But just to build on what he just said, diplomacy can’t succeed unless
Russia changes course.  And as he said, it wouldn’t be appropriate for
him to have a meeting with his counterpart at this point in time —
Foreign Minister Lavrov. And it was always intended that any engagement
with President Putin would follow that.

So, at this point, that is certainly not in the plans.

Q    And what would — what would it take to get that conversation back
to the table — to reconsider a meeting between the two leaders?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, de-escalation.

Q    Which —

MS. PSAKI:  That’s what it would take.

Q    Which — which — how do you define that?

MS. PSAKI:  “De-escalation” means moving troops.  It means de-escalating
from what the steps they continue to take on a daily basis appear to be.

Q    And then a second topic, quickly. 

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    How many Supreme Court nominees has the President interviewed by
this point? 

MS. PSAKI:  (Winks at the press.)  (Laughter.)  That was a wink. 

I appreciate your question. 

Q    Does that mean three? 

MS. PSAKI:  I understand, Weijia, why you’re asking.  We are, of course,
a very short period of time away from the end of the month of February. 
The President has not made a decision about who he is going to nominate,
but I’m not — still not going to get into details about the internal
process. 

Q    Okay.  Thank you.

MS. PSAKI:  More to tell soon. 

Go ahead, Peter.

Q    Thank you, Jen.  The President said in the spring that Pentagon
generals had briefed him that the greatest threat facing America is
global warming.  Is that still the assessment now that we are facing
down a potential cyber war with Russia?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I — let me first say: There is no — while we are
always prepared for any threat that any outside entity or country poses
to the United States as it relates to cyber or anything else, there is
no current pending threat on — as it relates to cyber.

In terms of the threats you’re — you’re touching on, that was a briefing
from the military, so I’d point you to them.

Q    And so, as far as anybody watching who’s seen the coverage, it’s
very — at times, distressing images of Russian military movements — the
number-one threat facing the country right now remains global warming?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, Peter, I think it’s important, as we’re all educating
the public here, to convey and reiterate: The President has no intention
of sending U.S. troops into Ukraine to fight in Ukraine.  What we are
doing is we are abiding by our obligations to our NATO Allies and
partners to ensure that they have the support and the resources that
they need.  And that is our right and our obligation as the United
States.

Q    Okay.  And why do you guys think that sanctions are going to stop
Putin if his goal ultimately is to redraw the map so it looks like it
did 70 or 80 years ago?  What sanction is going to stop him from doing
that?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think, just to kind of reiterate maybe something you
touched on there — for anyone who watched his speech last night, what he
made clear in that speech is that he doesn’t even necessarily — or
doesn’t recognize the independence of Ukraine as a country.  And that
certainly gives us an indication of where his intentions are at this
point in time. 

Sanctions can be a powerful tool.  They have been in a lot of moments
throughout history.  And what we view them as — or how we’re viewing
them as we’re starting high, as Daleep just conveyed here, in terms of
the significance and the severity of the sanctions that were announced
today — yes, our intention is to have a deterrent effect.  And there are
— while what they have done to date is completely unacceptable, there
are certainly far worse that could happen.  What we want to do is
prevent a large-scale invasion — death and destruction across Ukraine,
devastation to the Ukrainian people. 

And that what happens with the sanctions is they work over time. 
They’re not an end.  They’re not intended to max out at the beginning. 
They’re long-lasting and sustainable, and they’re intended to squeeze.

But if you look at what is happening now, what President Putin has
stated as his intention is he wants to divide NATO. The opposite of that
has happened, Peter.  He also wanted to — a geopolitical project, Nord
Stream 2, to go forward; that has not happened.  He wants to make sure
there is a vibrant economy for the Russian people; they’re not on that
track. 

So, his intentions and his objectives are not playing out.

Q    But so, I guess, to follow up on that: The President said before he
got here that “Putin knows, if I am President of the United States, his
days of tyranny and trying to intimidate the United States and those in
Eastern Europe are over.”  It’s two and a half years later.  He is
intimidating the United States and those in Eastern Europe.  What
happened?

MS. PSAKI:  I’d hardly put it that way.  I would look at it, actually,
from the prism of: The United States and President Biden has rallied the
world, rallied Europe to stand up against the efforts and the actions of
President Putin. 

Q    You don’t think people who are totally strapped for cash —

MS. PSAKI:  And we — we’ve laid out very clearly exactly —  

Q    — right now are intimidated by $4 gas, $5 gas, however high you
guys think it’s going to go?  Something like that is not intimidating?

MS. PSAKI:  You asked me if we were intimidated by President Putin, and
I think the evidence of that doesn’t exist.

Go ahead, Kristen.

Q    Thank you, Jen.  If I can try one more time —

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.

Q    — on sanctions.

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    The President of Ukraine on Saturday urged — called on the United
States and its Allies to impose the toughest sanctions.  And as all of
these questions suggest, President Putin doesn’t seem to be deterred at
this point.  Why not choke him — Russia — out financially right now as a
way to try to stop him?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, here’s how we and our national security team looks at
sanctions — it’s a very good question; I think it’s actually a different
one than what was asked — is we look at them through a couple of — for a
couple of purposes. 

One, not that they are going to be an end on their own.  Just the
announcement of sanctions is not — is not going to have the immediate
impact.  They’re not intended to work that way. 

They’re not — we’re not — they’re not intended to max out at the
beginning.  This is why we’ve always intended to have a range of
sanctions, steps that we could plus-up to or escalate to if his behavior
and his actions continue to be escalatory. 

And also, if we do all the sanctions now, what is the deterrent effect
or impact of preventing him to take further action?  That is what — the
conversation we’ve been in with the global community, and that is how
we’ve been approaching it to date. 

Q    Senator Lindsey Graham says President Biden is “missing the
moment.”  Does he run the risk of being too cautious here with this
tranche approach?

MS. PSAKI:  We — in what capacity is he missing the moment?  What did
Senator Graham say?

Q    Lindsey Gra- — I’ll read you the entire —

MS. PSAKI:  Okay, go ahead.

Q    — quote.  “This is a critical moment in history…. President Biden
is NOT seizing the moment.  The sanctions outlined are woefully
inadequate to deter Putin’s” —

MS. PSAKI:  Did he say that before or after we announced the sanctions?

Q    He’s been saying this consistently.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, look, I think it’s an important question because what
we — what the President announced was the sanctioning of two enormous
financial system — institutions that is essentially going to make it
more difficult for people close to President Putin and in the Russian
elite to do business.  And this is just the beginning.

Q    When do you think they’ll start to feel the impact? When will they
feel the bite?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, they’re going to be imp- — they’re going to be
implemented immediately.  So, obviously, it takes some time, but our
effort and our focus is on implementing them immediately.  

Q    And going back to President Biden’s statement that he wants to
mitigate the impact on Americans: Can you tell Americans how much pain
will they feel with this first tranche?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think what we’re looking at here, Kristen is, of
course, the impact on natural gas <s>producers</s> \[consumers\]
primarily is in Europe, and we’re working to help them too, but also on
the oil markets. 

And, obviously, there are many additional steps that President Putin
could take, and what we’re seeing is that he has every intention of
taking.  So, I can’t give you a projection of that.  Some of it depends
on what the actions are.

Q    But do you think Americans will feel the impact in the coming weeks
of these round — this round of sanctions?

MS. PSAKI:  Again, it really depends on what the steps are.  What — what
was announced today was significant sanctions on Russian elite and on
financial institutions there.

The people who will be largely impacted are in Russia on those.

Q    If I could just try one more.  SWIFT — not in this initial rollout.

MS. PSAKI:  In the ini- — not in the initial tranche, but remains on the
table.

Q    Will it be in the next rollout if there needs to be another
rollout?

MS. PSAKI:  I can’t give you a prediction of that.  But again, we have a
range of options that remain on the table significant — that would have
a significant and devastating impact on the Russian economy.

We’ve already seen, in the Russian economy, the impact on inflation
there and on the markets there of the expectation of these — of these
sanctions, but all of those options remain on the table, and I can’t
make a prediction of what’s next.

Go ahead.

Q    Jen, the President today used words like “bizarre” and “twisted” to
describe Putin’s remarks.  Does the administration believe — on what
they saw in his speech yesterday or in the last 24 hours, if you will —
that Putin has shown some kind of change in his state of mind, in his
demeanor?

MS. PSAKI:  I wouldn’t say we’d characterize it that way, Cecilia.  I
mean, if you — for those of you who read or watched his speech last
night — which was rife with historical inaccuracy, of course — he made
clear that he does not view Ukraine — not just the areas he recognized
yesterday, but the totality of Ukraine — as an independent country.

And he did — and he conveyed that by providing a lot of revisionist
history details that are not aligned with what has happened over the
last few decades.

Now, we’ve seen some of that rhetoric, if you look back — back to 2008,
and even before then.  But it is indicative of, you know, of his own
belief that he has the right as — of Russia — and he has the right to
take the territory, to claim territory from another country.  And we
just don’t agree with that, obviously.

Q    And if sanctions don’t work, then what?  What else is in the
toolbelt at the President’s disposal at this point?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, sanctions can take a number of formats.  Right? 
Export controls is certainly one of them.  There’s many more sanctions
that we have at our disposal.

SWIFT — the SWIFT system is obviously significant and not in the first
tranche.  But there’s a range of options that remain on the table for
sanctions.

And again, as Daleep conveyed, but I think this is an important
component for — to — to know is that they’re not intended to have an
impact on the fir- — the harshest impact on the first day.  They’re
attempted — they’re planned or they’re designed to have a squeezing
impact over the course of time.  And we have many more escalatory steps
that we could take.

Go ahead.

Q    Jen, do you have specific agreements with countries, exporters to
ensure Europe has a steady supply of gas?  Or is that still a work in
progress?

MS. PSAKI:  I certainly understand your question.  As Daleep said, it’s
a very — at a very sensitive time in the process right now.  But what
we’re doing right now is talking both to major natural gas producers to
understand their capacity and willingness to surge nat- — natural gas
output, which of course is a regional issue that would have an impact in
Europe, and also talking, as he said, to a range of producers to — to
help assess — or help reduce the market impact and the impact on the
American public.  But I just can’t outline any more details on it from
here.

Q    When you talk about the American — the impact that you’re — on the
American public, you mean, specifically, Americans should expect higher
gasoline prices.

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah, energy prices.  Exactly. 

Q    Okay.

MS. PSAKI:  That’s — that’s what we want the American public to be aware
is a possibility.

Q    And are you announcing more oligarchs tomorrow?  Is that the plan?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have anything to preview for you at this point in
time.  But I can certainly check if there’s another tranche coming
tomorrow.  Absolutely.

Q    Thank you.

MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead.

Q    Jen, given that the President stressed today that diplomacy is
still available but now the Blinken-Lavrov meeting is off, you just
said, this future summit between the President and Putin is not in the
plans anymore — can you help paint a picture of what exactly diplomacy
looks like in terms of dealing with Russia?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, we still — the door to diplomacy still remains
open.  And it just — as I think our foreign — our Secretary of State
conveyed, it isn’t the appropriate time, as Russia is taking escalatory
steps and preparing to invade, for him to meet with the foreign
minister.

And it had always been the intention that any engagement with President
Putin would be discussed there and potentially (inaudible) there.  But
there were never any specific plans or timeline, really, in the works
for that.  So, it was really going to be discussed at that meeting.

What diplomacy looks like: One, we’re going to continue to engage with
our European partners, of course, and we will continue to remain open to
— to having diplomatic conversations once — if and when they
de-escalate.

Q    Diplomatic conversations — so, certainly between President Biden
and President Putin in the future?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, of course, that remains an option.  And as we’ve said,
I think, over the course of the last few days, he’s always going to be
open to having leader-to-leader conversations, but this isn’t the time
to do it when — and we said this at the time as well — when they are —
when President Putin is overseeing the invasion of a sovereign country.

Q    And just quickly, what is the U.S. assessment right now of Russian
invasion into Kyiv?  Is that considered an immediate danger right now? 

MS. PSAKI:  It con- — it is considered — I’m not going to give you a
timeline, but it’s considered a real possibility, yes.

Go ahead.

Q    For weeks, Jake Sullivan and other top officials have said that the
administration and the White House has learned the lessons of 2014, and
you will enact — in sanctions, you will enact “start high and stay
high,” rather than gradually escalate.

MS. PSAKI:  Mm-hmm.

Q    As you talk about the chunks and different trenches, it seems you
are doing the opposite.  Why is that the approach that you’re taking —

MS. PSAKI:  Not true, actually.  We actually didn’t sanction these type
of financial institutions back in 2014. 

Q    Right.  But just more of the broad —

MS. PSAKI:  And it took several weeks to sanction these types of
institutions. 

Q    But more in terms of the theory of the case — that instead of doing
it in pieces, where you start and then continue to add on, the lessons
that Jake and others have signaled was that you “start high and stay
high,” instead of doing it more piecemeal.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, that’s exactly what we’re doing.  So, the announcement
that was made today about these financial institutions is more
significant that was — than what was done in 2014.  And we would only
build further from here.  So, that is starting high and staying high.

Go ahead.

Q    What Russian actions would trigger the fullest extent of U.S.
sanctions?

MS. PSAKI:  I’m just not going to detail what exact reaction will be to
each action.  Obviously, we have a range of options at our disposal. 
They’re — all remain on the table, and our preference is, of course,
de-escalation, not instituting more sanctions.

Q    Is the administration confident that sanctions and export controls
can or will be enough to turn to deter Putin?

And can you go into any more detail about what those export controls
might look like?

MS. PSAKI:  I can’t go into specific — more specifics.  Just a range of
options are on the table.  And obviously, export control actions would
have a significant additional impact on the economy there.

In terms of — tell me your first part of your question again?

Q    Oh, yeah.  Just is the administration confident that sanctions and
export controls can deter Putin?  Are they enough?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, part of what sanctions are is — they’re intended to be
a deterrent, but they’re also intended to have a squeezing, significant
impact on the economy that is felt over a sustainable period of time
that makes it more difficult to continue those behaviors and those
actions. 

They’re not — they’re not intended or designed to be an end when they’re
initially announced.  So that — those are the range of options we have
at our disposal, and there will continue to be a growing impact.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks.  The President said last week that he was hoping to, maybe,
work with Congress on some sort of proposal to address energy prices. 
Is that still on the table or is this focus now on sort of diplomacy
with producers and consumers?

MS. PSAKI:  All is on the table.

Q    And what might that look like?

MS. PSAKI:  Discussions with Congress?

Q    Yeah.  Would it be in the form of legislation to lower prices?  I
mean, what kind of policies is —

MS. PSAKI:  That is an option, but I don’t have anything to detail for
you at this point in time.

Q    And then, on another subject, the U.S. and several countries are
close to reaching a nuclear deal with Iran.  What’s the likelihood of an
agreement, you know, this week, in your view?  And would the U.S. agree
to a deal that does not include the release of U.S. and British
prisoners held by Iran?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, let me — let me start with your second question
because this is a really important one.  But the discussions on unjustly
detained and innocent Americans remains separate from the JCPOA talks. 
Special Envoy Malley has reiterated, “…it’s very hard for us to imagine
getting back into the nuclear deal” — or agreeing to kind of a new
iteration of the deal, to the point of your question — “while four
innocent Americans” — and others — “are being held hostage by Iran.”

It’s really a matter of urgency to bring the detainees home, and we want
it to be resolved immediately.  But it is happening from a — through a
separate channel — those conversations.

In terms of the status of the JCPOA talks, we have made substantial
progress — or substantial progress has been made over the last week or
so, and is continuing to be made.  Nothing is agreed until everything is
agreed.  And so, until then, I’m not going to give you a rosy
assessment.  But it is, of course, good that substantial progress has
been made.  If Iran shows seriousness, we believe we can and should
reach an understanding on mutual return to full implementation of the
JCPOA.

Q    And just real quick, is the President concerned at all about the
convoy of truckers that is making its way to Washington?  And has he
taken any sort of steps to protect the city?

MS. PSAKI:  Yes, we’ve actually been monitoring this closely.  The
Department of Homeland Security and the administration are tracking
reports of a potential convoy that may be planning to travel to several
U.S. cities, including Washington, D.C. 

We have been working, including from Dr. Liz Sherwood-Randall here, as
well as our Homeland Security Department with — closely with our
federal, state, and local partners to continuously assess the threat
environment and keep our communities safe. 

And our efforts include enhanced intelligence sharing, a Critical
Incident Response Plan for the U.S. Capitol, a regional security
assessment, and a simulation experiment that developed data-driven
recommendations to bolster regional security.

So, we are closely monitoring, closely watching, and working with state
and local authorities.

Go ahead.

Q    Great.  First, I just want to thank everybody — I know it’s late —
who is — we’re limiting our questions so that more people can —

MS. PSAKI:  Yes, sure.

Q    So, I appreciate that.

MS. PSAKI:  And if anybody needs to go for a hit or anything, nobody
will take it personally.  I know some people have. 

Go ahead.

Q    So, one question, of course, on Ukraine, first of all: Daleep said
just now that today’s sanction package is, quote, “just the beginning of
it.”  Does that mean if nothing changes, you expect more sanctions?  Or
what does that mean “just the beginning of it”?

MS. PSAKI:  It means we have a range of additional options that we have
the ability to take.  And if President Putin continues to escalate, so
will we.

Q    And then on — looking to the State of the Union, when was the last
time President Biden spoke to a member of Congress about any item in the
Build Back Better agenda?

MS. PSAKI:  He has a range of conversations all the time, but I’m not
going to detail the timeline of those for you.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  When can we expect a more detailed explanation from
the White House about how it would plan to bring down energy prices?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think, as Daleep just conveyed, a lot of what’s
happening right now is sensitive.  It includes conversations with
foreign counterparts and other major large global suppliers.  It also
includes conversations we’re continuing to have with Congress and others
about what steps may be at our disposal.  And the President is
continuing to consider options.  So I expect we’ll have more to tell you
when — if any decisions are made.

Q    And given what we have heard publicly from the Russians in the last
several days, what level of concern does the White House have that the
conflict could spill over out of Ukraine and into some of the other
nations that the U.S. has vowed to protect militarily and are part of
NATO?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, without making any prediction of that, what I can tell
you is that one of the steps we’ve taken, including an announcement that
the Department of Defense made today about a plussing-up of an
additional 800 personnel to the Baltic region from Italy, is that we
take our commitments to our NATO Allies and partners seriously, and we
are going to continue to take steps to plus up their support and ensure
that they know that they have the backing of the United States.  But I’m
not going to make any other predictions of that.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks a lot.  The NSC’s Brett McGurk–

(A noise interrupts the briefing.)

MS. PSAKI:  That was a little scary.

Go ahead.

Q    The NSC’s Brett McGurk and the State Department’s Amos Hochstein —
I hope I didn’t butcher it too much.

MS. PSAKI:  Hochstein.  But it’s okay.  Yes.

Q    Hochstein.  Thank you.  I just wanted to ask: What concrete
assurances were they able to secure on managing potential market
pressures from Saudi Arabia?

MS. PSAKI:  I certainly understand the question.  We did confirm that
they went on a trip.  And they discussed a range of issues, including
Yemen, but also including steps to take to — steps we can all take to
coordinate and reduce the impact on the global market on oil — of oil. 
But I can’t detail anything further from here.

Q    If one of the objectives is not to disrupt global energy flows, and
energy prices are high and rising, how can Russia’s bottom line really
be hurt if you don’t disrupt global (inaudible) flows?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think Russia’s bottom line can be hurt in a lot of
ways, including the range of sanctions we’ve already announced today and
additional sets of sanctions that we have at our disposal should they
choose, whether it’s sanctioning additional individuals or taking more
significant steps that would real- — would impact their financial
market. 

So, there’s no question we have a range of tools that could continue to
have crippling impacts on the Russian economy.

Q    But so much of their revenue comes from oil and energy.

MS. PSAKI:  I understand what you’re saying.  But we also have a range
of tools that could impact a range of their financial mar- — have huge
financial market impacts. 

And the President is also looking at and we’re all assessing what steps
we can take that will have a crippling impact on them while reducing the
impact on the American public.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  I’m just trying to get a better idea of what the
administration deems to be an “escalation” on the part of Russia.  And,
two — and what would prompt an additional tranche of sanctions?  Would
it only be the expansion of Russian forces to non-occupied republics or
areas of Ukraine, or would it be the continued deployment of forces to
the two separatist regions that were detailed yesterday?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think as we’ve seen — as you have seen, hopefully —
as Russia has taken any escalatory steps, we have taken escalatory steps
on our end in the form of sanctions.  And so, I’m not going to outline
for you, “If this, then then.” 

But I think if — for those of you, again, who watched the speech last
night, the President — President Putin direct — attacked Ukraine’s right
to exist.  He explicitly threatened war unless his extreme demands were
met.  He gave an entire speech selling a war to the Russian people. 

Our expectation — and we hope we are wrong — is that he will continue to
take escalatory actions and further invade the country, and we will take
additional steps in response.

Q    Is the administration preparing any sort of measures for Ukrainians
already in the United States, such as TPS or any other sort of
immigration protections, for those who might not want to go back
(inaudible)?

MS. PSAKI:  Sure, I don’t — obviously those decisions or assessments are
made by the Department of Homeland Security.  I can’t make a prediction
of that at this point in time. 

Obviously, what we are doing on the ground is trying to provide a range
of economic, humanitarian, and security assistance to the Ukrainian
government. 

I understand you’re asking about people who are here.  And obviously we
are preparing for the potential for major humanitarian outflows that
could go into Europe and have a range of needs, and so that is also
something we are closely tracking. 

We are also pre- — poised to increase our support to the people of
Ukraine should additional humanitarian needs arise.  Our response would
be based on assessment of the needs, our partners’ emergency appeals, in
coordination with our European allies and partners.

But we are assessing the humanitarian assi- — situation on the ground
very closely, and we’re going to continue engage with Allies and
partners about any humanitarian needs that escalate and refugee outflows
if they are to continue to occur.

Q    Given we’re getting close to the deadline, just — are SCOTUS
interviews done at this point?  I know it’s all in process and it’s —

MS. PSAKI:  I know.

Q    But, you know, are they done at this point?

MS. PSAKI:  The long national process will soon be over, Zolan.  That’s
the good news. 

I’m not going to detail the status.  But I can tell you that the
President has not made a decision yet, but we remain on track for him to
make a decision and make an announcement before the end of the month. 

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  I know you said you didn’t like military questions
too much.  But —

MS. PSAKI:  No, I love military questions.  I’m just not going to
outline military movements from here.

Q    Yeah.  Okay.  Okay.  Okay, fine.  Because, you know, one — one kind
of salient aspect to this whole thing has been actually openness of the
U.S. in giving military details about what the Russians are up to, so
I’m wondering if you can go a little further with that.

It seems important — that people don’t really understand, like, these —
you know, the so-called peacekeepers, like, how many are there?  Are
they in Donbas now?  Is it a handful of people?  Is it a few guys with,
like, you know, jeeps, or is it tons of tanks, missiles?  I don’t think
Americans really have a good idea of what it is — what this invasion
actually consists of right now. 

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  And I appreciate —

Q    So if you can say anything on that. 

And another question would be: There’s obviously no U.S. trainers in
Ukraine anymore.  Will this training — military training relationship
continue in a third country?

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  On the second, I would point to the Department of
Defense, who’s best equipped to answer that question.

On the first: It’s a really important one.  You know, I think it’s
important for the American public, who may be just tuning in, to know
that there has been a military — Russian military presence in Ukraine
since back to 2014, which they never admitted, they never acknowledged. 
In some ways, they’ve only recently acknowledged. 

Back in 2014 and in the years after, we called them “the little green
men” because they were not in Russian military uniform.  Now we know
that they are all over eastern Ukraine.  And they are — while not in
uniform, they are behaving just like Russian military would be
behaving. 

So that is something — I can’t give you a number or specifics from here
because I can’t get into intelligence. 

But it is important for the American people to know that — that
regardless of whether they’re in uniform or not, they’ve been there
since 2014.  They are representing the Russian government.  They are
separatists who are — we probably should stop calling them
“peacekeepers” because they are certainly not that — who are, you know,
helping to lay the predicate for war.  And that is what the purpose of a
lot of them is there for.

Q    Okay, but did anything change in the last 24 hours?  I think that’s
— that’s really the question.

MS. PSAKI:  Yes.  I’m not going to — I’m not going to be able to give
you any additional assessment of that at this point in time from here. 
But I understand your question, and we’ll continue to work to give you
more.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  Two quick questions on Nord Stream 2.  The first is:
The deputy director just said that stopping Nord Stream 2 relieved
Europe of a “geostrategic chokehold” that Russia would have had on
them.  So, if Nord Stream 2 going online was such a threat, why, in May,
did the President waive sanctions on the company and the chief executive
behind it?

And my second question is: Is there a concern that Nord Stream 2 — if
Russia were to make concessions or retreat in some way, that that might
open up the door to Nord Stream 2 going back online?  Or is it your
understanding that it is dead no matter what Russia does?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would first say that, you know, the President has
never been a supporter of Nord Stream 2.  We’ve always criticized it as
a — as a project that we didn’t support.  We took a range of steps and
sanctions — including sanctions, to make that very clear. 

What — the announcement made by the German Chancellor today was not by
accident; it was at the conclusion of a range of diplomatic engagements
and efforts by the President and members of our national security team,
in unity from the Europeans, about the fact that this could not move
forward.  We’ve never felt — the President didn’t feel that issuing
pre-emptive sanctions on that was the right step to take. 

But look where we are: Nord Stream 2 is not moving forward.  And, by the
way, it hasn’t been operational anyway.  So, you know, that’s a fact;
it’s not moving forward at this point in time. 

In terms of the future, we’ve never felt it was a good project.  We’ve
been clear about that.  And that assessment I don’t expect would change
in the future. 

Go ahead. 

Q    Thank you, Jen.  Does the White House any — have any reaction to
former President Trump calling Putin’s move yesterday “genius” and
“smart”?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, as a matter of policy, we try not to take advice from
anyone who praises President Putin and his military strategy, which I
believe is what happened there; expresses an openness to lifting
sanctions about the seizing of territory in Crimea; or, at any point in
time, told leaders of the G7 that Crimea is a part of Russia, regardless
if they are a former president. 

So, there’s a bit of a different tactic, a bit of a different approach. 
And that’s probably why President Biden, and not his predecessor, was
able to rally the world and the global community in taking steps against
— against Russia’s aggression.

Q    Is there any fear that statements like that could turn support for
Ukraine into a more partisan issue among the U.S. public?

MS. PSAKI:  By the former president? 

Q    Yeah.

MS. PSAKI:  I — you know, I think that is up to members of the
Republican Party to make the decision, to make the determination. 

It has — there is a long history, decades of history — which President
Biden was a part of when he was Chairman of the Foreign Relations
Committee — of standing up to the efforts of any country to seize the
territory of another country, standing up for efforts by the United
States to rally global support against — against inappropriate and
illegal actions by another country. 

There’s a long history of that — not in a partisan way, in a bipartisan
way — and certainly that choice is up to Republicans to make — to
determine.

Go ahead. 

Q    Thank you, Jen.  I’ve got two questions quickly.  The
administration rolled out a list of sanctions against Russian oligarchs
and elites.  My question is: Are any of them being sanctioned for the
first time, or are these, sort of, repeat bad offenders?

MS. PSAKI:  That’s a good question.  I’m sure we can get you a breakdown
of that.  I believe some of them are new, and certainly the banks are
new.  But let us get you a more specific breakdown of that.

Q    And then my second question is: The last time Jake Sullivan was
here, he said that a Russian invasion of Ukraine would lead to U.S.
sanctions, warning that that would necessarily make Moscow more beholden
to Beijing.  Obviously, both of those foreign powers aren’t exactly the
most friendly to us.  So, is the administration taking any steps or
issuing any warnings to keep those geopolitical foes from, you know,
aligning together and marching in lockstep?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, long before the events of the last few months, we saw
China and Russia moving closer together in some capacity.  But, right
now, as we’re looking at the actions of President Putin and the — as
we’re preparing for him to further invade Ukraine, to unfortunately put
forward death and destruction on the country and the people of Ukraine,
it’s really a question for China on whether they look at that and think
that’s acceptable behavior. 

So, I think you saw that our Secretary of State had a conversation with
his counterpart in the last 24, 48 hours.  And we will certainly remain
and continue to engage, but I think it’s about looking at where the
global community is in this moment and determining where you want to
stand. 

La- — okay, go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  I wanted to ask about rapid COVID tests.

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    Do you have an update at this point on how many you’ve shipped and
how many you have under contract?

MS. PSAKI:  I believe we do, but I’m going to have to get that to you
after the briefing.  We have — let me get that to you after the briefing
because I think we have some updated numbers on that. 

I think we’re going to have to wrap up shortly here. 

Q    Can I ask you one more? 

MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead, in the back.

Q    Thank you.  Thank you, Jen.  I — I’m sorry.  I had to step out —

MS. PSAKI:  It’s okay. 

Q    — for a live shot for a moment.  But — so if somebody asked this
question, I’m sorry.  But I would like to clarify what Daleep said at
the beginning. 

MS. PSAKI: Sure.

Q    He said that Nord Stream 2 will go to waste now.  So, do you have
assurance from Germany that it’s — the decision to cancel the project is
final, or it’s still reversible?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would really — I don’t have anything to build on
beyond what — the strong statements and the strong comments of the
Chancellor this morning and the President’s own statements about how it
would not move forward. 

Okay.  Thanks, everyone.  We’ll see you tomorrow.

Q    Thank you.

Q    Thank you, Jen. 

(Remote camera clicks repeatedly.)  (Laughter.)

MS. PSAKI:  There’s a ghost photographer in the walls.  (Laughs.)  Where
is Doug Mills?  Is he back there?  (Laughter.)

6:13 P.M. EST
