---
tags: press-briefings
date: '2022-02-27'
modified_time: 2022-02-27 12:32:50-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/02/27/background-press-call-by-a-senior-administration-official-on-imposing-additional-severe-costs-on-russia/
published_time: 2022-02-27 12:32:49-05:00
title: "Background Press Call by a Senior Administration Official on Imposing Additional\
  \ Severe Costs on\_Russia"
---
 
Via Teleconference

(February 26, 2022)

MODERATOR:  Thanks, everyone, for joining.  As a reminder, this call is
on background, attributable to a “senior administration official.” 
We’re going to be discussing further restrictive economic measures we’re
imposing on Russia today in coordination with Allies and partners.

For your awareness and not for reporting, the speaker on the call today
is \[senior administration official\].

The contents of the call are embargoed until the end of this call.

So with that, \[senior administration official\], I’ll turn it over to
you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks, everybody, for joining.  So as
a result of Putin’s war of choice and ongoing assault on Ukraine and the
core principles of peace and stability that have prevailed since the
Second World War, President Biden and the leaders of the European
Commission, France, Germany, Italy, and the United Kingdom decided to
take further measures to isolate Russia from the global financial system
and the global economy.

In an unprecedented act of global sanctions coordination, our leaders
decided to take three actions today: one, to apply the Iran model and
disconnect sanctioned Russian banks from SWIFT; two, to undermine the
Russian Central Bank’s ability to defend the ruble; and three, to launch
a joint task force to collectively hunt down the physical assets of
sanctioned Russian companies and oligarchs — their yachts, jets, fancy
cars, and luxury homes.

Let me go into some detail on each of these three measures.

First, our leaders decided to follow the Iran model and disconnect key
sanctioned Russian banks from SWIFT.  The EU will implement a regulation
that removes sanctioned Russian banks from the SWIFT international
payments network, effectively shutting them out of the world’s most
important financial system.

The reason de-SWIFTing is severe is that this is a network that almost
all banks in the world use to transmit financial information to each
other as they make payments or receive payments.  The SWIFT code is on
the bottom of every check you sign.  About 11,000 banks across the world
are members of the SWIFT network.  If one of these de-SWIFTed Russian
banks wants to make or receive a payment with a bank outside of Russia,
such as a bank in Asia, it will now need to use the telephone or a fax
machine.  In all likelihood, most banks around the world will simply
stop transacting altogether with Russian banks that are removed from
SWIFT.

Two, leaders have committed to target the Russian Central Bank — the
single-most important financial institution in Russia.  We are
collectively planning to impose measures to ensure Russia cannot use its
Central Bank reserves to support its currency and thereby undermine the
impact of our sanctions.

This will show that Russia’s supposed sanctions-proofing of its economy
is a myth. The 600-billion-plus war chest of Russia’s foreign reserves
is only powerful if Putin can use it and without being able to buy the
Ruble from Western financial institutions, for example, Putin’s Central
Bank will lose the ability to offset the impact of our sanctions.  The
Ruble will fall even further, inflation will spike, and the Central Bank
will be left defenseless.

Third, this coming week, we will launch a multilateral transatlantic
task force to identify, hunt down, and freeze the assets of sanctioned
Russian companies and oligarchs — their yachts, their mansions, and any
ill-gotten gains that we can find and freeze under the law.

We’ve already seen the impacts of transatlantic cooperation yesterday,
when the French government seized a cargo ship owned by the sanctioned
Russian bank Promsvyazbank.

As part of our new task force, we’re committed to fully implementing
sanctions and other anti-money-laundering financial and enforcement
measures to maximal effect on sanctioned Russian officials and elites
close to the Russian government, as well as their families and their
enablers, to identify and freeze the assets they hold in our
jurisdictions.  As I say, we’ll go after their yachts, their luxury
apartments, their money, and their ability to send their kids to fancy
colleges in the West. 

We’ll also engage other governments so as to detect and disrupt the
movement of ill-gotten gains and deny these individuals their ability to
hide their assets in jurisdictions across the world.

We’re also announcing our commitment to take measures to limit the sale
of citizenship — so-called golden passports that allow wealthy Russians
connected to the Russian government to become citizens in certain
countries and gain access to our financial systems.

Any current or future sanctioned individual trying to flee the impact of
our sanctions by buying their way into Western citizenship will be
forced to endure the consequences of supporting Putin’s war of choice.

These unprecedented actions we’re announcing today build on the swift
and severe steps we’ve taken jointly with Allies and partners throughout
the past week. 

In alignment with the decision by our European Allies yesterday, the
United States sanctioned President Putin, Foreign Minister Lavrov, and
members of the Russian national security team.

Yesterday, the President also directed the Secretary of the Treasury to
impose full blocking sanctions on the Russian Direct Investment Fund in
the coming days.  This is a state-owned financial entity that functions
as a sovereign wealth fund and attracts capital — is meant to attract
capital into the Russian economy in high-growth and high-tech sectors. 
Sanctioning this entity will further curtail Putin’s strategic ambitions
to expand the instruments of war and repression.

And, in total this week, as you reflect upon the financial sanctions
we’ve implemented, we’ve now targeted all 10 of Russia’s largest
financial institutions, holding nearly 80 percent of the Russian banking
sector’s total assets.  We’ve cut off Russia’s largest bank from the
U.S. financial system, a very significant blow to its ability to
function and process global trade.

The export control measures we took in lockstep with Allies and partners
across the world, both in Europe and in Asia, will cut off more than
half of Russia’s high-tech imports, restricting Russia’s access to vital
technological inputs, atrophying its industrial base, and undercutting
Russia’s strategic ambitions to exert influence on the world stage.

We’ve also sanctioned Russian oligarchs and Putin’s inner circle and
their family members, including Putin’s cronies who sit atop Russia’s
largest financial institutions and are responsible for providing the
resources necessary to support Putin’s further invasion of Ukraine.

This has been the worst week for the Russian stock market on record. 
This has been the worst week for the Russian Ruble since March 2020, and
the currency hit an all-time low against the Dollar earlier this week. 
Russia’s government borrowing costs have more than doubled to almost 17
percent.  The S&P credit rating agency has downgraded Russia to junk
status.  Within 24 hours of our actions, the demand for cash in Russia
spiked 58-fold, according to reports, and the Russian government
scrambled to deplete its own resources to try and shore up its banks and
its currency.

In short, Russia has become a global, economic, and financial pariah. 
Over 30 countries representing well over half the world’s economy have
announced sanctions and export controls on Russia.  Putin’s government
is getting kicked off the international financial system.

To be clear, this is a sad outcome for the people of Ukraine, the people
of Russia, and many others.  This is not where we wanted to be, but this
is Putin’s war of choice, and only Putin can decide how much more cost
he is willing to bear.  The United States and our allies and partners
are unified and will continue to impose costs.

Let me stop there.

MODERATOR:  Great. Could we queue up the directions to ask a question
please?

Q    Can you explain the move on the Central Bank?  Are you putting it
on the SDN lists?  And if not, what mechanism are you using?

And then just more broadly, can you give us some sense about why
everyone has moved quickly on Saturday to do this?  Was there something
that prompted you to go so quickly beyond what was happening in Ukraine
in terms of Russia moving assets to avoid sanctions preemptively?  Thank
you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yes, thanks, Demetri.  Well, we said
all along: If Putin continues to escalate, we’ll escalate, and that all
options remained on the table.  We’re delivering on what we said.

And specifically, with respect to the Central Bank, today’s statement
was a commitment by the leaders that I mentioned across the world to
restrict the actions that the Russian Central Bank can take to undermine
the impact of our sanctions.

So, as I mentioned at the outset, you heard about Fortress Russia — the
war chest of 630 billion of foreign reserves.  It’s impressive, but it’s
only impressive if Russia can use those reserves.  And that means Russia
has to be able to sell those reserves and buy Ruble to support its
currency.

And so, what we’re committing to do here is to disarm the Central Bank. 
And the way we can do that, for example, is by preventing U.S., EU, UK
persons from selling Rubles to the Central Bank of Russia.  That means
very simply, the Russian Central Bank can’t support the Ruble, full
stop, and that means our sanctions will have much greater force.

There are other measures, too, we could take against the Central Bank,
and you’ll be hearing more about that later.

Q    Thank you, \[senior administration official\]. And just to follow
up on Demetri’s question: Are you, in fact, placing the Central Bank of
Russia on the SDN list — or, in other words, are you freezing their
assets?  Or is it something less?

And does the SWIFT cutoff affect only banks that are already sanctioned,
and which Russian banks are selected and how did you select them? Thank
you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yes, thanks, Ellen. We’re still
finalizing the specific execution modality for the Central Bank
sanctions, and it could involve both the flows that the Russian Central
Bank is allowed to undertake, as well as the assets they have.

With respect to SWIFT and which banks will be de-SWIFTed, there’s a
process underway, Ellen, to finalize the list of banks that will be cut
off from the SWIFT system.  There are several banks that Europe and the
U.S. have sanctioned, and those will be the first ones considered.

And ultimately, as a matter of regulation, the list of banks that will
be de-SWIFTed will be finalized by the EU, since SWIFT is under Belgian
jurisdiction.

But we’re going to work very closely, as we have throughout this
process, with our European partners to finalize that list.

Q    Thank you very much for doing the call.  Can you tell us if you
have any indications from China or other countries that they’re going to
help Russia soften the blow of these sanctions?  Have you seen any sign
of any transactions, for instance, that indicate —

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Hi, Andrea.

Q    — what China is going to do?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I’m sorry to interrupt. Yeah, so, if
anything, I would say, Andrea, the latest signs suggest that China is
not coming to the rescue.  I think it was reported yesterday or the day
before that China was actually restricting some of its banks to provide
credit to facilitate energy purchases from Russia, which suggests that,
much like has been the pattern for years and years, China has tended to
respect the force of U.S. sanctions.

And, you know, as we’ve said — just lifting up a little bit, as we said
from the start, it really would be an unfortunate signal for China’s
vision of the world if it gave tacit or explicit accommodation to
Russia’s invasion of a sovereign country in the heart of Europe.  It
would do profound damage to its reputation in Europe, but really across
the world.

Q    Thanks, \[senior administration official\].  We have a question
about energy carveouts in the de-SWIFTing process. Is there going to be
carveouts for energy companies in Russia to still do business outside of
Russia, similar to how Venezuela was de-SWIFTed a few years ago?

And also, how much of the 630 billion or -40 billion or so in reserves
in the Central Bank do you think you’ll be able to really freeze?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, so when an institution is
de-SWIFTed, there tends not to be a carveout for the product type.  And
so, we are going to go institution by institution, in terms of those
that are removed from the network, and we’ll pick those very carefully
to maximize the impact on Russia and minimize the spillovers to Europe
and the global economy.

I’m sorry, the second question?

MODERATOR:  Can we open up the line again, please, for Jordan Fabian?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Oh, you know what?  I just remembered. 
It was a question about how many of the 630 billion are subjected to the
sanction, and — all of it.  All of it.

So, right now, all 630 billion of Russia’s foreign reserves could be
used theoretically to — they could sell those reserves and buy ruble. 
And that would offset some of the impact of our sanctions.  I mean, as
you know, the Russian ruble has already fallen 15 percent in this
episode, and the Central Bank intervened already this week for the first
time since 2014.

What this measure does, among other things, is it prevents Russia from
transacting with Western banks, U.S. banks, European banks, UK banks,
which it needs to do to actually intervene in foreign exchange markets. 
It must buy the ruble and sell its hard currency reserves to support its
currency.  That’s why I say we’re disarming — we’re disarming Fortress
Russia by taking this action.

And there may be other actions, too, that are unveiled with respect to
the Russian Central Bank, and we’ll be finalizing those over the
weekend.

Q    Hi, thanks for doing this.  Can you say how quickly you believe
that we will see the impact from these actions?  I realize you’re still
finalizing which banks will be impacted, but does this mean, on Monday,
Moscow wakes up and feels the difference?  And when you say you’re
trying to minimize the impact to the global economy, what’s the risk
you’re trying to minimize here, specifically?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, I have great confidence the
effects of these measures will be felt immediately in Russian financial
markets.  I think market participants understand that without Russia
having the ability to defend its currency, it will go into free fall.

The actions with respect to SWIFT do require the Europeans to issue a
directive that will then go to Belgium for a vote of the SWIFT Board of
Directors.  Those are the specific requirements under Belgian law.  But
with this decision made, I think you will immediately see a chilling
effect fall over the Russian banking sector, even beyond what’s already
occurred.

With respect to spillovers and costs and so forth, look, I mean, our
judgment here, our calculus is that we have two choices: either we
continue to ratchet costs higher to make this a strategic failure for
President Putin, or, you know, the alternative, which is unacceptable —
and that would be allowing unchecked aggression in the heart of Europe,
in defiance of the core principles that have kept the peace and security
across the continent for 70 years.

And those costs of doing nothing and allowing those uncertainties to
fester, and the chilling effect to take hold, and the questions that
will be asked about which country is next to be bullied and which
autocrat is next to exert a sphere of influence — those costs are
unacceptable to us.

Q    Thanks so much for doing this, \[senior administration official\]. 
I just wanted to follow up on Jordan’s question about the carveouts. 
The U.S. and Allies have been very careful to have carveouts on the
previous sanctions to limit the impact on energy.  Are you saying that
it’s not going to be — that energy is not going to be — there’s not
going to be a carveout with SWIFT for energy?  Or is that the plan to go
back and do one by one, and energy will be carved out?  Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, thanks, Franco.  So, I mean, I’ll
give you as much detail as I can.  There are really two paths from
here.  One is we are trying, over this weekend and around the clock, to
work with SWIFT to figure out if they have the capability of identifying
the product type.

I mean, so let’s remember: SWIFT is like a — it’s like Gmail for banks. 
And what we’re trying to understand is: In those messages that are sent
from one bank to another to make or receive payments, is there a marking
which denotes that an energy payment is being made?  If so, we could
exempt those payments.  So that’s one path.

But the second path is to choose our institution — choose the
institutions that we de-SWIFT wisely.  So, we know where most of the
energy flows occur, through which banks they occur.  And if we take that
approach, we can simply choose the institutions where most of the energy
flows do not occur.

MODERATOR:  Great.  All right.  Well, thanks everyone for joining the
call.  As a reminder, this call was on background, attributable to a
“senior administration official.”  The contents of the call are
embargoed until the end of the call.

If you have any more questions, please feel free to reach out to me and
we’ll make sure to get back to you.

Thanks, everyone. Have a good night.

END
