---
tags: press-briefings
date: '2022-02-15'
modified_time: 2022-02-15 19:01:01-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/02/15/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-february-15-2022/
published_time: 2022-02-15 19:15:00-05:00
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Jen\_Psaki, February 15,\_2022"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

4:17 P.M. EST  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Hi, everyone.  Okay, I have two items for all of you at the
top.   
  
Today we have some exciting updates on our competition agenda.  First,
we have progress on our administration’s effort to lower the price of
Internet for millions of Americans.  I bet you there are people who once
lived in apartments or still do in this room who will love this, if you
haven’t already seen it.  
  
Today, the FCC announced important steps to increase competition in the
market for high-speed Internet, which President Biden requested in his
executive order on competition.  
  
As some of you may know, the landlord, if you live in an apartment,
sometimes requires you to purchase Internet service from one source. 
And today, the FCC voted on a bipartisan, unanimous basis to crack down
on exclusivity agreements between landlords and Internet providers,
known as “sweetheart deals,” which lock tenants in apartments and office
buildings into just one option for Internet.  
  
That might be good for the landlord and for the Internet service
provider but bad for tenants, bad for American — the American people,
bad for people living in apartment buildings who may have to pay more
and accept lower quality service.  
  
More than a third of Americans live in apartments and condos, and many
businesses operate in multi-tenant buildings, like office buildings or
malls, so this is a sweeping problem the FCC is starting to fix today.  
  
And second, a competition update that is relevant for our national
security: Today, the Department of Defense released a new report
required by the President’s competition executive order, explaining the
new actions to promote competition in defense contracting.   
  
This report details that since the 1990s, the number of aerospace and
defense prime contractors has shrunk from 51 to just 5.  That
consolidation means taxpayers have to pay more for defense services, and
it threatens our national security.  Strengthened merger oversight is
one of the five actions the Defense Department is taking to address the
problem.  
  
We’ve already seen concrete progress on that front this week.  On
Sunday, the FTC successfully blocked Lockheed Martin’s $4 billion
attempt to acquire Aerojet — a proposed megamerger of major defense
suppliers.   
  
The FTC had filed a lawsuit explaining that the merger would jack up the
price the U.S. government has to pay, while delivering lower quality and
less innovation.   
  
Also wanted to note — last item from me at the top — is we’re thrilled
the Senate did its job today and confirmed the renowned clinical
trialist Dr. Robert Califf once again to the job of FDA Commissioner and
once again on a bipartisan basis.  
  
He brings to this critical post a lifetime of knowledge and the
institutional experience that will ensure he hits the ground running and
is guided by the science on critical missions facing the FDA — from
continuing to lead the fight against COVID-19, to combatting the opioid
crisis, to ensuring the safety of our nation’s food supply.  
  
Josh, why don’t you kick us off.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  Two things on Ukraine.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yes.  
  
Q    First, markets have obviously already been reacting to that
situation.  Gasoline prices are up 20 cents a gallon over the last 30
days on average.   
  
Is the President saying that if people are paying more at the pump, that
is essentially a direct result of Vladimir Putin’s actions and he is to
blame for the current burst we’ve seen in higher prices?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, the President wasn’t making a market assessment or how
the market moves.  What he was conveying very — very clearly to the
American public is that if Russia to — were to invade and we were to put
in place crippling sanctions, that would have consequences or an impact
here at home.  
  
So I know that wasn’t exactly how you were asking the question, but that
was what he was conveying in his answer.  In terms of the price of
gasoline, what we’ve seen — as we know, back in December, it went down
by about 10 cents, thanks to tapping the Strategic Petroleum Reserve —
something where there’s still releases that have been ongoing.   
  
The President also made clear in his remarks that he is open to — all
options are on the table to help bring down the price of gasoline.  But
he wasn’t making a market assessment; he was just making clear to the
public that if Russia invades and we put in place crippling sanctions,
that would have an impact on the public.  
  
Q    And then secondly, on Ukraine, the President talked about
diplomatic efforts.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    Could you go into more detail on what those diplomatic efforts
could be?  Is this going to be more U.S. interaction?  Could there be a
face-to-face meeting with Putin?   
  
And then how would you define success under diplomacy?  Is it as simple
as no invasion or are there broader goals you’re looking for, given that
everything is now on the table — or more things are on the table?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Well, on the first part: You may have seen, or not,
that our Secretary of State spoke with Foreign Minister Lavrov earlier
today.  The President spoke with President Macron earlier today as
well.  I think the readout just went out to all of you, or it should be
in your inboxes as well.   
  
And what he means by “ongoing diplomacy” is that it will continue at the
pace and urgency that you have seen from him over the last several weeks
and from his team.  And it — some of it will come from the President. 
Some will come from high-level members of his national security team. 
And some of it will come from our European partners or NATO Allies, who
we remained in very close contact with.  
  
In terms of engagement with President Putin, you — as you know, he spoke
with him on Saturday.  And he believes in the power of leader-to-leader
diplomacy, but I don’t have a prediction of a next engagement at this
point in time.  
  
Q    And what about —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Oh, sorry.  
  
Q    How do you define success?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I wanted — sorry, I didn’t get to that last part of your
question.   
  
You know, the — how we define success is, I think, how a lot of our
European partners and NATO Allies would define it, which would be a
de-escalation — a proven de-escalation at the border of Ukraine, where
the Russians are pulling back their troops, where they are making clear
to all of — to the global community, to the media, to the public that
they are not invading Ukraine and backing that up with actions.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  Following up on this energy question in terms of the
impact on our energy, which the President mentioned —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — and then the consequences here at home.  What should Americans be
prepared for?  Worst-case scenario, what should they expect if this
happens?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think what the President was touching on was the
fact that if Russia decides to invade, there could be consequences here
at home.  And that could have an impact on energy prices, which could
have an impact on prices at the gas pump.  
  
And we’re taking — while we are taking active steps to alleviate the
pressure on our own energy markets — and every option is on the table to
offset rising prices, as you saw the President act last fall — a range
of options remain on the table — he also wanted to be very clear and
direct with the American people about what the impact could be and the
fact that, in his view, defending democracy and liberty is never without
cost, but we need to convey to the American people exactly what that
could look like.  
  
Q    And one more on Russia.  If President Putin decides not to invade,
does President Biden consider that a victory?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I think the world — the global community would consider that
a victory.  But again, I think what the President’s view is and what the
national security team’s view is, is that this is ultimately up to
President Putin.  
  
And every step we’ve taken up to date over the last weeks and even
months — to coordinate with our NATO Allies; to stay in lock- — in close
touch with leaders in Congress and members about what our plans are; to
put together a crippling sanctions package — what we are doing is we’re
presenting the choice to President Putin.  He, ultimately, is going to
decide which path he chooses.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Jen, I just wanted to close the loop on a few things.  So the —
Ukraine has been experiencing a number of cyberattacks today.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    A number of its banks were affected.  The Defense Ministry was
affected.  Has the United States attributed those attacks to Russia?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have anything on the attribution at this point in
time.  I know there have been a range of reports.  What I can say is
that we have been in touch with the Ukrainians, our Allies and partners
— working with them to deter and respond to malicious cyberactivity.   
  
We have also been warning for weeks and months, both publicly and in our
engagements with the Ukrainians as well as our European partners, about
the potential for Russia to conduct cyber operations in Ukraine, but I
don’t have anything more specific on attribution at this point.   
  
Q    Okay.  And just, you know, kind of moving a little bit into the
realm of the hypothetical.  There are a lot of steps that —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Oh, boy.  
  
Q    I know.  There are a lot of steps that Russia could take that are
short of an invasion but that are still, you know, aggressive —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — you know, including cyber, including — there’s this step that
their congress has taken on recognizing its breakaway regions in Ukraine
as being, you know, separatist legitimately — and the separatist
regions.  Would the U.S. respond to any — any things like that with
sanctions as you would to, you know, an actual invasion?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We have conveyed before and I’ll reiterate now that we would
be prepared to respond <s>with</s> \[to\] a range of malicious
activities or actions that the Russians were to take.  
  
Q    Okay.  And then one more thing.  I know that you — there’s — you
know, you’ve said that there is very little daylight with you and
European allies on this issue.  The German Chancellor said today that
Ukraine joining NATO is simply not on the table; it’s not on — an agenda
item right now.  Is that how you would characterize it from the White
House?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think, as you’ve heard the President conveying and
you just heard him convey in his remarks, our view from the United
States is that nations have the right to sovereignty, to territorial
integrity, freedom to set their own course and choose who they associate
with.   
  
So we, the United States — we’re never going to pressure or any country
to join or not join a global alliance.  That is up to them and up to the
other members of NATO.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  Just — you say all options are on the table.  Let’s
be more specific: On the possibility of a gas tax, how would they —
would the White House support doing that?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I have nothing to predict for you at this point, but all
options remain on the table.  
  
Q    He said in his speech, “If Russia attacks Americans in Ukraine, we
will respond.”  Is there specific intelligence suggesting that some kind
of targeted attack on Americans in Ukraine is possible?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t think he was suggesting that.  I think, as we’ve
conveyed, as we’ve warned and been very clear about the risks that would
be posed to anyone who’s in Ukraine, including American citizens, were
Russia to invade — one of the biggest militaries in the world — that
there would be serious risk to civilians.  That’s, I think, what he was
conveying.  
  
Q    And with the Ukrainian President slated to be out of his country
this weekend to go to the Munich Security Conference, does the U.S.
think that’s a good idea for him to be gone right now?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t think we have an assessment on that from here. 
Obviously, the Munich Security Conference is an opportunity for any
leader to engage with, communicate with other leaders in the world. 
And, obviously, the Vice President is going, as you know.  
  
Q    He’s got a busy day, obviously, with Ukraine, but has the President
talked to any Supreme Court nominee?  Have any interviews been
scheduled?  Will they happen in person or virtually?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I’m going to disappoint you here, Ed, and just convey that I
think we’re not going to give day-to-day updates from here, moving
forward, about whether or not he’s done interviews.   
  
What I can confirm for you is we’re still on track to — for the
President to make a decision and make an announcement before the end of
the month, which is in two weeks.  
  
Q    We file that under the “got to ask.”  
  
MS. PSAKI:  He will do some interviews in the next two weeks.  That’s
what I can confirm for you.  
  
Q    There we go.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead, Jacqui.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  We’ve been told for a long time that some
cyberattacks would likely precede an invasion.  So, if it turns out that
Russia is behind what happened today — or is — I guess, how I should
phrase it is: Is there work being done quickly to figure out if Russia
is behind what happened today so that sanctions can be imposed before
there is bloodshed?  Or is the calculus still sort of centering on force
on force or some, you know, passing over the border?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Well, we are constantly doing those assessments.  And
certainly, as any cyberattack happens, that is certainly a process that
happens behind the scenes and that our intelligence community and our
national security community undertakes, as it would be in this case as
well.  
  
I would note, though, as it relates to sanctions: One, there’s a range
of means that we could respond, both seen and unseen, to a — to a
cyberattack or any other attack.  And the President has the purview to
do whatever he chooses in that regard.   
  
But our view remains that the crippling package of sanctions is an
effective deterrent.  So if you do that all in advance, what is to stop
them from moving forward?  
  
Now, that may be a different policy issue — difference of opinion, I
should say, on policy issues with some in Congress, and that’s okay. 
But that is our view from the administration.  
  
Q    And then, this may or may not be related at all, but is there any
information on what caused the power outage on the North Lawn?  Every TV
network lost power at the same time  
during the President’s remarks.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  It was a very inconvenient time, I will just note, for all
of you —  
  
Q    The timing was suspect, yes.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  — and for us.  I don’t have any assessment of that, no.  Or
— yes.   
  
Q    Okay.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead.  
  
Q    And then, does the White House view Ukraine giving up on NATO
aspirations as a possible off ramp?  I understand that, you know, the
President has said, the administration has said over and over that NATO
members would not, you know, encourage — or would not — would not give
up that ability for someone else to join.   
  
But, you know, they do have a long way to go, and now that there’s, you
know, all of this concern that if there was a member — if they did
become members, it could potentially trigger Article 5.  
  
Is there any discussion among NATO Allies about, you know, how
significant it would be if Zelenskyy were to make that offer himself?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, we have not raised that from the United States.  And
again, I would reiterate what I said a little bit earlier, which is that
our position is that we are not going to pressure Ukraine or any country
to join or not join an alliance, that it is — nations have the right to
sovereignty and territorial integrity, and that’s a choice for them to
make.  
  
Q    And then, why is the administration encouraging Americans who are
evac- — or fleeing through Poland to be — to bring proof of COVID-19
vaccination?  As I understand it, Poland does not require that.  So is
there going to be a shift in messaging for Americans who are trying to
get out through Poland?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I would check with the State Department on that.  I’m happy
to follow up with you — for you on your behalf as well.  
  
Go ahead, Kristen.  
  
Q    Thank you so much, Jen.  I wanted to circle back to the idea of
what de-escalation would look like and how the administration would
trust that it were actually real.  Do you have a sense of how many
troops you would need to actually see with your own eyes, through
satellite images or otherwise, would need to withdraw in order for this
administration to feel as though Putin were, in fact, de-escalating
(inaudible)?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think, Kristen, that is a decision that we would
make in partnership with our NATO Allies — right? — and European
countries.   
  
And you look at everything from satellite imagery — something that many
of you have access to — to validation and verification of what they’re
saying they would do.  
  
So I can’t — I’m not going — I’m not going to be in a position, nor
would I expect the Defense Department would be, to give you a troop
number, but I think it would be very clear if that were a step they were
taking.  
  
Q    Okay.  And I think there’s been a lot of mixed messages publicly
coming out today.  Among them, the NATO Secretary-General that there is
cause for “cautious optimism” when it comes to some of these talks that
are happening behind the scenes.  Does the administration, does the
President share that cautious optimism?  Because we heard from the
President very firm language.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, the President also conveyed it would be positive if it
was verified that they pulled back their troops.  
  
And certainly, the openness to diplomacy is something that everybody
should support and I think our NATO Allies would support as well.  
  
At the same time, we’ve seen this playbook before.  And especially given
the history of President Putin and the Russians, their history of
false-flag operations, of misinformation, we need to verify.  
  
Q    So — and I guess that’s my question: Does the administration share
the NATO Secretary General’s cautious optimism?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I think I’m not going to — I don’t think we need to put in
more words than what the President just conveyed in a speech to the
country.  
  
Q    The GOP senators have unveiled a sanctions bill.  Have you assessed
whether or not this is something the administration wants to see some
movement on, this is something that you would potentially support, given
that the bipartisan talks stalled?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Not yet, because it just came out.  But again, our view
remains that a bipartisan effort would be the best effort moving
forward.  And as I conveyed to Jacqui a few minutes ago, you know, our
view continues to be that the crippling sanctions package we’ve designed
is meant to be a deterrent.  
  
Go ahead, Ken.  
  
Q    Jen, the Senate is working on this stopgap funding bill that, you
know, the deadline is Friday.  What’s the level of confidence that the
President will be able to sign that extension by Friday?  
  
And, separately, has the administration been talking to the two
Republican senators who have raised concerns — Senator Lee and
Blackburn?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We are engaged with a range of Democrats and Republicans,
and certainly we are hopeful that we will be able to sign this.  
  
I would note, though, that I believe — and correct me if I’m wrong here
— that one of Senator Blackburn’s primary concerns is about a relation
to the — to the funding of crack pipes.  Is this correct?  Which is not
an issue.  
  
So, this is a — this is an issue — what is happening here is the
potential to hold up funding in the government and important programs
around an issue that is not an issue, because we’ve been very clear that
we are not providing funding for crack pipes.  
  
Q    And then, the Senate Banking Committee had planned to vote on your
Fed nominees today.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    There was a holdup there.  Republicans have objected to Sarah Bloom
Raskin’s nomination.  What does the administration think of this delay? 
And is the administration going to provide any additional details to
Senator Toomey — some of the issues that he’s raised?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, let me first say that this is a very extreme step
that’s totally irresponsible, in our view.  It’s never been more
important to have confirmed leadership at the Fed to help continue our
recovery and fight inflation.  And, obviously, they have a unique role
to play, an important — a vital role to play as it relates to
inflation.  And I think Democrats and Republicans have agreed on that
for decades.   
  
So Republicans are out there saying, “Inflation is a problem.  It’s a
huge issue.”  We agree.  And then they’re not even bothering to show up
to even vote against these nominees to the Federal Reserve.  What
message is that sending to the American public?  
  
So we — and I would note, just on Sarah Bloom Raskin, since you asked me
about her as well: You know, she’s one of the most qualified individuals
to ever be nominated to the Federal Reserve.  She’s made the strongest
ethics commitments in the history of the Fed, even as she’s made
extensive disclosures to the Banking Committee as a natural part of the
process.  
  
Senator Toomey has continued to promote false allegations that have
already been shot down by ethics experts, the Kansas City Fed, the
founder of Reserve Trust, and Sarah Bloom Raskin herself.  
  
So we’re going to continue to work with Chairman Brown on a path forward
and look forward to the Banking Committee eventually holding a vote to
commit these — to confirm these five nominees.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Is there any entertaining of other options if it stalls in
committee?  You know, there appears to be some question about whether
the Senate as a whole can advance these nominations.  Is that something
you’re exploring?  Or is that something that you don’t think you have
the power to do?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  You mean in terms of different legislative processes or
different —  
  
Q    There’s some speculation that the full Senate could, sort of, skip
the committee vote if it stalls out in bringing them forward.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  I don’t —  
  
Q    Do you believe the Senate has that power, or does it have to go
through a committee?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Our focus right now is on working with Chairman Brown on
moving these nominees through the committee.  
  
Q    And can I ask also on COVID funding?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Mm-hmm.   
  
Q    HHS briefed Congress this week, requesting what — $30 billion in
funding.  Can you just give us a sense of — A, can you confirm that?  B,
what, in particular, do you need this funding for?  And has the existing
funding been allocated?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  So, HHS’s briefing today, or this afternoon, was a
part of our regular conversations with Congress about various resources
it needs, including what is needed for COVID response.  This is
important because, while we continue to have sufficient funds to respond
to the current Omicron surge in the coming weeks, our goal has always
been to ensure that we are well prepared to stay ahead of the virus.  So
we’ve been in these ongoing conversations about what those needs might
look like, and this was a part of that effort.  
  
In terms of funds that have been allocated or spent, more than 90
percent — so, available Rescue Plan funds, which is where the funding
has come from to date, have been obligated or allocated.  Ninety percent
of that has been for purchases of vaccines and therapeutics, vaccine
distribution efforts that have gotten shots in arms, testing, including
for schools and at other high-need locations.  
  
Resources from the Rescue Plan and prior COVID response bills have
enabled us to respond forcefully to the Delta and Omicron surges.  And
what we’re trying to do now is stay ahead and stay in contact with
Congress about what those needs might look like.  
  
Q  And Secretary Blinken said yesterday that the U.S. is not on pace
right now to meet the President’s goal — or the WHO goal of vaccinating
70 percent of the world by later this year.  Is any of this funding
aimed at jumpstarting global vaccination efforts?  And can you talk a
little bit about why you’re not on pace?  Is it, for instance, a supply
problem?  Or is it a problem with what Secretary Blinken called
“last-mile” type stuff, getting “shots in arms” — to borrow language of
the COVID group?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  That is — that is an undervalued part of it, I should say. 
So, I’m — thank you for raising that part of it.  
  
So, right now, we’ve shipped over around 440 million doses and are
continuing to aggressively share around 10 million doses a week to the
world free of charge.  We’re the first country to buy doses for the sole
purpose of sharing them with the world.  We also bought, as you know, a
billion doses.   
  
And Secretary Blinken, I think, made those comments in part because he
wants to rally the world to do more.   
  
But a big part of our effort right now and where we have seen challenge
is turning vaccines into vaccination, which means working closely with
our partners on the ground and dealing with hyperlocal issues countries
may be facing to increase vaccination.   
  
And this is a big part of the focus of Ambassador Power and USAID’s
Global Vaccination initiative, but part of it is that “shots in arms”
component.  
  
Q    Have countries started deferring their U.S. donations because the
capacity is the problem more than the supply?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  There have been moments, yes, where countries are not able
to receive the doses that we’re able to provide.  
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you.  Raise — creating a gas tax holiday takes legislation.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.   
  
Q    And I’m wondering, what are other things that the President could
do on his own to mitigate a gas price hike because of Ukrainian
conflict?  What else can he do by himself?   
  
And in terms of releasing oil from the SPR, have you made a
determination of how much cost rise that would offset?  In other words,
what good does it do?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  That’s a good question.  And those are assessments
that our economic team is constantly, of course, making.  We did see
even the anticipation of the release, back in December, helped lower the
price by about 10 cents.  But that — those assessments are constantly
being made.  
  
In terms of — without a decision being made, which I know you’re not
asking, but just to be clear: There are steps the President has taken in
the past, obviously tapping the Strategic Petroleum Reserve.  He has
also engaged, we have engaged with oil-producing countries around the
world.  That’s something we will continue to do because, clearly, we
need to ensure that the supply out in the global market is meeting the
demand.  And, obviously —  
  
Q    You mean, encouraging other countries to produce more?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Correct.  
  
Q    Is that what you’re saying?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yes.   
  
Q    Yeah, okay.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  And that’s been a part of our effort, even as we anticipate
what impact there could be from an invasion.  So, as you know, there’s
obviously a difference between natural gas shortages and the impact on
home heating, which is largely a regional issue, but we have been still
— in Europe — but we’ve been still working with partners on that as
well, but also on the supply of gas out in the market — oil, I should
say, or gas.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    The President said that “an invasion remains distinctly
possible.”  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    Some senior administration officials said, a couple days ago, that
“as soon as this week.”  Is that still the timeline, or has anything
shifted based on kind of mixed messages of the last couple of days?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We don’t have a new assessment.  As I think you heard the
President say, it’s — there’s a distinct possibility, but we don’t have
a new assessment of a decision being made either.  
  
Q    And then, I know there’d been internal discussions about giving a
speech like the one the President gave —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — today for some time.  Why today?  And then, the intent behind it:
Obviously, it seemed to be looking to hit on multiple audiences to
deliver specific messages to them.  So why — why today?  And why that
range of messages?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  You know, Phil — Phil, I mean, you all have been covering
this very closely — the potential of an invasion, our diplomatic
engagements — and there’s no question the American people have been
consuming what you have been reporting.   
  
But I think we felt and the President felt it was important to be very
clear and direct with the American people about what the impact could be
on them, what the consequences would be, what our values are, and why it
is important to stand by not just the territorial integrity and
sovereignty of a country, but also stand among our Allies and partners
around the world.   
  
So, it was very important to him to lay out very clearly what — the
steps we’ve taken, the actions we’re prepared to take, what’s at stake
for the United States and the world, and how this will impact us here at
home.   
  
In terms of why today: It wasn’t based on — obviously, as you saw — a
desire to put out a new policy or based on something new internally.  It
was just our — the President’s interest and feeling it was time to speak
directly to the American people about all of those issues.  
  
Q    And then, just last one.  On the first point that you made there:
Is there concern, either by the President or inside the White House,
that perhaps the understanding or support for, kind of, traditional
Western alliances that have been a pillar over the last 80 years is
waning or doesn’t exist to the degree that it used to?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  No, I think, Phil —  
  
Q    Inside the country, I mean.  Inside the country.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah, no, it’s a good question.  I don’t have any data
assessment of that.  But we also are fully aware of the fact that, right
now, the American people are still grappling with a pandemic.  They’re
grappling with rising costs.  Some — two iss- — two big issues the
President speaks to quite frequently.   
  
And it was important to him to be able to lay out clearly for them what
this, you know, potential conflict, potential invasion — in a place that
may feel far away — and how it could impact them — how that could impact
them, and his engagement.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Yeah, thank you, Jen.  President Biden today said there’s 150,000
Russian troops encircling Ukraine.  That appeared to be a higher number
than previously reported.  I think 130,000 is how, most recently, we’ve
seen it characterized.  So was the President confirming an actual
escalation of Russian troops?  Or why did he present a new number
there?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think over the last dozen days or so we’ve seen a
dramatic acceleration and buildup of troops.  And so, the President said
in his remarks very carefully, it’s encircling Ukraine on the border and
also in Belarus.  And so, I think he felt it was important to give an
assessment of where things stand.  
  
Q    And, secondly, regarding a gas tax holiday, you said, quote, “All
options remain on the table.”  There is right now a bill from Senate
Democrats that would institute a suspension of the gas tax for the rest
of the year.  Does the White House support that specific bill?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  We haven’t made any decision about additional steps at this
point in time.   
  
Q    Thanks.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  Two questions.  As you mentioned earlier, Vice
President Harris is headed to the Munich Security Conference this week. 
Does the President plan to also send Secretary Blinken?  And if so,
would a last-minute addition suggest a different or perhaps reduced or
more limited role for Vice President Harris at that conference?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t think there’s any plans to limit or reduce the Vice
President’s role at the Munich Security Conference or at the global
stage — on a global stage.  She’s going to give a speech while she’s
there.  And she is a vital and important representative for the United
States and our values and our intentions at this point in the world.   
  
But in terms of plans for Secretary Blinken to attend or not, I can
check with the State Department and see.  There are plenty of leaders to
meet with, so more bandwidth.  
  
Q    And on — on a different note: The President continues to talk about
his Build Back Better plan.  He did so today; did a couple of events
last week.  What is the White House expectation at this point about the
future of that plan?  Is there any evidence of any sort of forward
movement, forward progress, even on a pared-back version of that?  There
doesn’t seem to be a lot of optimism or action right now on Capitol
Hill.  But can you talk about what the White House expectation is for
that and why the President continues to bring this up?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, the President continues to bring it up because, as we
talk about the impact of inflation — which most people experience in
their daily lives as rising costs — one of the ways that we can address
that is by passing legislation that will help lower costs for Americans,
whether it’s childcare or healthcare or the cost of prescription drugs. 
And we can do that and fully pay for it by making the tax system more
fair.   
  
So, what is encouraging to the President is that there is broad support
for lowering costs for the American people in all of those categories
and for making the tax system more fair.  And we are continuing to work
in lockstep and in partnership with a range of senators.  And they’re
having their own discussions about moving these efforts forward.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you very much, Jen.  One question on Asian Americans, and one
question on Ukraine.  On Asian Americans: Actually, the Team USA Gold
Medal winner, Chloe Kim, revealed, as an Asian American, according to
AP, quote, “…she was tormented online daily.  She says she was consumed
by the fear that her parents could be killed whenever she heard the news
about another brutal assault on an Asian person.”  Unquote.  
  
Actually, under President Biden’s watch, in 2021, the anti-Asian hate
crimes increased by 339 percent.  It seems we don’t see much action
taken by the White House.  And even in a press briefing, the very last
time you mentioned about Asian Americans was last May.  So, will the
President take some action or even just record a video, like what he did
last year to raise the awareness?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, let me say first that Chloe Kim — I’m obsessed with
the Olympics, so I’m just going to give you a little biography here, but
she’s 21 years old, and she made those comments, which is incredibly
courageous and brave that she spoke out about the fear she had — the
fear she has for her family members.  And she’s not the only Asian
American to do that, but she is somebody who is now a double Gold
medalist.  Amazing.  And so I just want to take a moment to applaud her
for her courage in doing that.  
  
I will say that the President has put in place a task force.  He has
hired a senior-level staffer to be a representative and be someone who
can speak to these threats and these concerns and these fears felt by
the Asian American community, because there’s a number of steps we need
to take and continue to take to address.  
  
And we’ve seen this rise, unfortunately, because of hate-filled rhetoric
and language around the origins of the pandemic.  And that is something
that Asian Americans across the country have been feeling.   
  
So I can just reiterate for you that the President is absolutely
committed to continuing to speak out, to crack down, to take steps, and
again, would thank Chloe Kim for her courage.  
  
Go ahead, Amna.  
  
Q    On Ukraine —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Let me — I just have to keep going because we got a —  
  
Q    Just a couple quick on Ukraine, Jen.  President Biden said that we
should give diplomacy every chance to succeed.  Secretary Blinken, after
his call with Foreign Minister Lavrov, said that a window remains open
to resolve this peacefully.  I just — on the timeline, how long does the
President think that window should stay open if there’s no invasion but
also no pullback of Russian troops?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, what’s the alternative if we don’t leave the open —
the window to diplomacy open, right?  I mean, you know, our objective,
obviously, is that you heard the President say today there is no threat
the United States is posing to Russia, to the Russian people.  There’s
no threat that Ukraine is posing to Russia.   
  
What we’re working to do here is leave a forum for de-escalation for —
and prevent a war.  And so, for — to us, the door to diplomacy should
always be open, and we should always look for opportunities to
de-escalate.  
  
Q    Is there any concern this turns into, like, a frozen conflict
basically, where troops just stay on the border and there’s no invasion
but also no pullback?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, again, there’s going to have to be a continued
dialogue and discussion.  But Russia not invading Ukraine and not
risking and impacting the lives of many, many people in that country,
including potentially American citizens, would certainly be a step we
would welcome.  
  
Q    And just on what Americans should prepare for: You mentioned the
threat of cyberattacks.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    The President mentioned that as well.  And we know Homeland
Security has previously mentioned they’ve seen an uptick in scanning on
U.S. critical infrastructure and so on.  Should Americans be prepared
for a potential Russian cyberattack on critical U.S. infrastructure or
other networks?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say: Even before we’ve been discussing the
buildup of troops at the border, and even before we’ve been discussing
the bellicose rhetoric, we have seen an uptick in cyber activity by
malicious actors around the world, either those living in countries or
the countries themselves.   
  
And so that is something — I don’t have any new threat or new warning to
post today, but that is something we have certainly been amping and
increasing our focus on, as an — as a threat that’s emerging but has
been the case for the last several years.  
  
Q    Jen, can you take a question on Africa?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  One second.  
  
Go ahead.  And then I’ll go to you.  
  
Q    Jen, just this hour, lawmakers put out a bipartisan statement
warning President Putin.  I know you’ve said from the podium that the
White House doesn’t need Congress to pass the sanctions package to
implement your own sanctions package, but wouldn’t it have sent a
stronger message if there had been an agreement reached?  What message
do you think it sends to Putin that all we got out of Congress was a
statement?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I think President Putin knows very clearly, because he’s
heard it directly from President Biden’s mouth, that if he invades — if
he invades Ukraine, that there will be crippling sanctions, and we don’t
need Congress to act in order to do that.  
  
Q    And when will the President make a decision on any new energy
policies to impact prices at the pump?  Because even without an
invasion, prices have risen beyond where they were before the emergency
reserve release back in November.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  You’re right.  And the President is very focused on making
sure we’re doing everything we can to lower the cost for Americans in
any way it hits them, whether it’s prices at the pump, or when you go
buy a pound of meat, or wherever it may be.  So, we’re continuing to
assess.  And he’s continuing to look at options.  I don’t have a
prediction of — of any decision though.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, Jen.  On Africa —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I’ll go to you after, Simon.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  Switching topics entirely.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  
  
Q    The President is headed later this week to Ohio.  He said that he’d
like to be out in communities with people —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — frequently.  How often would he like to be out there per week? 
What are you guys (inaudible)?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Every day?  (Laughs.)  
  
Q    Well — (laughs) — well, but when he says that —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — what is your anticipation?  Is he looking to travel two, three
days a week?  And when would you expect that to ramp up?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  You know, I think you can expect that to increase around the
State of the Union and after.  And I think we are constrained by a
couple of things, including the CR funding but also the fact that there
is a whole lot going on in the world.  Even though he can be President
anywhere, he also has a responsibility to sometimes be in the White
House — or oftentimes be in the White House.  So — but he’s looking
forward to getting out there more in the coming weeks.  
  
Q    Does he have anywhere specific that he hasn’t been yet, or places
that he hasn’t been, that he feels — frequently enough — that he’d
really like to get back to?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Good question.  I would venture to guess that he has
probably been nearly everywhere, given he ran for President a couple
times and Vice President.  
  
Q    I meant since he’s been —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  As President, I don’t have any prediction of states or a
readout of states that he is looking forward to going to, but I’m sure
he — he is looking forward to traveling around the country — blue
states, red states — across the gamut.    
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Jen —  
  
Q    Thank you, Jen.  On Africa, you said —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Oh.  Okay.  Okay, Simon.  I’ll go to you.  Go ahead,
Simon.  
  
Q    Okay, thank you.  Thank you.  It’s been three months.  So, if you
can allow me to ask two questions.  The President spoke with Prime
Minister Abiy Ahmed of Ethiopia on January 10.  It’s been almost a month
now — more than a month since that call took place.  And the WHO
yesterday released a statement saying that they still don’t have access
to the Tigray region for humanitarian access because the government is
not allowing them to have fuel.  
  
So, is the President still interested in anything else apart from
Ukraine?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Of course, he is.  The President has to be the — a global
leader in the world.  And he is responsible for not just what’s
happening around the world but also what’s happening domestically.   
  
Let me give you an update or a comment from here:  
  
We are hopeful that recent steps taken by the government of Ethiopia and
other actors might open a path to resolving the conflict.  Over the last
month, the Prime Minister has taken steps to promote dialogue, release
political prisoners, and enable expanded delivery of medical supplies in
the Tigray region.  We continue to have serious concerns about the
humanitarian situation in Ethiopia, and we are focused on working with
our parties — with all parties to end the source of the suffering, the
military conflict.  
  
Go ahead, Karen.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  President Zelenskyy tomorrow is calling for a day of
unity — a national holiday tomorrow in Ukraine.  His message for the
last couple of days, if not longer, has been “don’t panic” to
Ukrainians.  
  
Does the administration have concerns that Zelenskyy and Ukrainian
leaders have not adequately prepared the Ukrainian people for a Russian
invasion?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I’m not going to speak to that.  What I can speak to
is what we feel our role and responsibility is, which is to provide a
range of information about what we see at the border, what we see Russia
preparing, and our assessment of what impact that could be.  Every
leader makes their own decisions.  
  
Q    And do you have an update on the humanitarian assistance that the
U.S. is talking with European allies should that happen and the
Ukrainian people need that?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  I know we — Secretary Blinken made an announcement —
I believe it was yesterday — about additional assistance.  Let me just
see if I have any more details on it in here, and if not, I will get
that to you shortly after the briefing, Karen.  Let me just see.  
  
Let’s see here.  Let me get you — I can get you — let’s see.   
  
Last — so, we did offer — we just announced — sorry — a  sovereign loan
guarantee to Ukraine of up to $1 billion to bolster Ukraine’s economy
amidst pressure resulting from Russia’s military buildup.  This builds
on the $3 billion in sovereign loan guarantees we issued to Ukraine
between 2014 and 2016.  
  
We’ve also committed more security assistance to Ukraine in the last
year than at any point in history — $650 million.   
  
And we also announced we’re launching a new Partnership Fund for a
Resilient Ukraine with our European — with our Allies and partners to
include — to continue to expand on that.  
  
The last thing is we — the Export-Import Bank has made available $3
billion in support for projects in Ukraine, and the Development Finance
Corporation has a current investment portfolio in Ukraine of
approximately $800 million across more than a dozen projects.  So, we’ve
obviously provided a range of assistance, which we will continue to
build on. 

Go ahead. 

Q    Jen, will Vice President Harris be meeting with President Zelenskyy
when she’s in Munich?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have anything on her planned meetings at this point
in time.  I expect we’ll have more as we get a little bit closer, and I
expect they’ll do a preview call from her team as well.

Q    And then an Olympics question.

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    Does the administration have any reaction to the IOC’s decision to
allow Russian figure skater — I’m going to butcher her name — Kamila
Valieva to continue competing in the Olympics after her doping scandal?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would point you to the statement made by the U.S.
Olympic and Paralympic Committee, who oppose the decision made in
Beijing, saying it, quote, “appears to be another chapter in the
systemic and pervasive disregard for clean sport by Russia.”   
  
But these were independent decisions made by the <s>U.S. Anti-Doping</s>
\[International Testing\] Agency and Court of Arbitration for Sport.  We
don’t have any additional comment from here.  I would point you, again,
to the U.S. Olympic Committee.  
  
Go ahead.

Q    So, the U.S. Energy Information Administration shows data that
Russian oil being imported in the U.S. has been increasing over the past
year.  In May of 2021, it was the most on record. 

Now, the President said he wants to use all tools to keep gas prices
down.  Is he looking at temporary things to keep gas prices down should
there be a Russian invasion?  Or is there any consideration in reversing
some of the policies and going back to increasing U.S. energy
independence? 

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have anything to detail for you, inclu- — in terms
of what he is considering.  But our overarching objective is to decrease
the impact on American consumers and increase the impact on Russian
leaders. 

Q    Well, you talked about the boycott on the Republicans of the Fed
nominees.  Does the White House support allowing four of the five
nominees to go through and then dealing with Sarah Bloom Raskin later?

MS. PSAKI:  Again, we are working with Chairman Brown to move all five
nominees forward. 

Go ahead.  Right there.  Go ahead.  Yeah. 

Q    Thanks, Jen.  Do you have any update on maybe steps the White House
is taking in the event that the trucker protesting in Canada heads to
the U.S. and, also, especially to D.C. around the time of the State of
the Union?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, we — our Department of Homeland Security team has been
assessing and I gave an update last week that they also increased
support — federal support around the Super Bowl when there were those
reports. 

I would note the Super Bowl did move forward and there was no halting of
that, so that is a positive development as well. 

But we are constantly assessing any impacts or any security impacts. 
But I don’t have anything to preview for you. 

Go ahead. 

Q    Thanks, Jen.  I wanted to ask — back to the Supreme Court.  The
President received a report with recommendations on how to reform the
Supreme Court late last year.  Has he at all reviewed the report yet and
taken a position on it? 

MS. PSAKI:  It wasn’t a — it wasn’t — I would just remind everyone: It
wasn’t recommendations; it was a broad assessment from across the gamut
of scholars from all ends of the political spectrum who were looking at
a range of historic issues as it relates to the Court. 

The President has been reviewing that, but I don’t have anything to read
out for you on that front. 

Q    The other thing I wanted to ask you was about voting rights.  The
President signed this expansive executive order a year ago on voting.  I
believe Susan Rice put out —

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    — an update on it in September or October.  Could you provide an
update on what agencies are doing?  We’re going to start beginning
seeing elections as soon as next month.  I believe that’s in Texas, but
other states are going to start to have them.

MS. PSAKI:  Yes, I do have a lot on this, not in front of me.  So, in
terms of what agencies are working on or what they’ve been working on
and what they’ve basically been doing —  so you’re — have more detail on
this than maybe others do. 

But all of the agencies were tasked with putting together their own
plans to expand voting access, and they’ve been working on those plans. 
They’re all at different points in the review process and how it will be
implemented. 

But if you look at past examples, where — I think it was back in the
‘90s — where if you went to the DMV to renew your driver’s license, they
would offer you the opportunity to register to vote — you know, stuff
like that. 

But let me see if we can get you something — and anyone else who’s
interested — after the briefing. 

Q    Thanks, Jen.

MS. PSAKI:  Okay, we’ll do one more.  And then we’ll wrap it up. 

Go ahead. 

Q    Thank you so much.  One on China, one on Afghanistan.  First of
all, China’s foreign ministry has been really critical of U.S. rhetoric
on the Russia-Ukraine crisis, calling it “hyping up the possibility of
warfare,” saying the U.S. is “clamoring for bloc confrontation.”  What
does the White House make of this rhetoric?  Are you going to take any
action against it, either through talk or other means?  And what do you
make this closeness between Moscow and Beijing? 

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say that the — first, the meeting that they
had a couple of weeks ago reflects an approach both countries have
already taken for some time, which is to move closer together.  We know,
and we’ve said before, but China is not in a position to compensate
Russia for their economic losses.  And we have tools to deploy if we see
foreign companies, including those in China, trying to backfill
sanctions.  
  
You know, I would say our overarching view, though, is that if Russia
chooses to move forward, it will cost China and how it’s viewed in the
eyes of Europe and the world.  And that’s something for them to assess. 

We are trying to prevent a war here.  That is why we are putting
information out and why we are engaging with the global community. 

Q    And then how do you respond to Afghans who are critical of the
executive order that proposes to split the frozen Afghan money?  They
say that, you know, they weren’t involved in the 9/11 attacks, so why
are they getting less of these funds that they’re entitled to? 

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say that, first — let me start with the fact
that this is one step in the process.  No funds can be transferred until
the courts make a ruling. 

What the President was trying to do was enable certain U.S.-based assets
belonging to Afghanistan’s central bank to be used to benefit the Afghan
people, otherwise it would have been held — right? — and that money
wouldn’t have been going.   
  
And so, that’s why we saw — and he took a proactive step to facilitate
access to $3.5 billion of those assets for the benefit of the Afghan
people and Afghanistan’s future. 

More than — as you know, many U.S. victims of terrorism, including the
relatives of victims who died in the September 11  terrorist attacks
have brought claims against the Taliban and are pursuing these assets in
federal court. 

So, more than $3.5 billion in assets are going to remain in the United
States and are subject to the ongoing litigation.  But what I think it’s
important for people to know and understand is he took this proactive
step to sign the executive order in an effort to try to provide some of
this funding to the Afghan people. 

Q    When will that happen?  When will —

MS. PSAKI:  Well, the courts have to rule in order for it to happen. 

Q    But the other half — the $3.5 billion?

MS. PSAKI:  Right.  The court — that has — it has to — the courts have
to rule in order for any of the funding to move forward, I believe, is
my understanding.

Q    But why — how is that proactive then?

MS. PSAKI:  He’s making clear that he believes that half of the funding
should go to the Afghan people to — for humanitarian purposes. 

Thanks, everyone.

Q    Thanks, Jen.

Q    Will President Biden meet in person with the Russian president?

MS. PSAKI:  I think I answered that question a little bit earlier.  
  
5:04 P.M. EST
