---
category: press-briefings
date: '2022-02-22'
modified_time: 2022-02-22 18:34:04-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/02/22/background-press-call-by-a-senior-administration-official-on-russia-sanctions/
published_time: 2022-02-22 18:34:03-05:00
title: "Background Press Call by a Senior Administration Official on Russia\_Sanctions"
---
 
*Via Teleconference*** **

3:34 P.M. EST

     MODERATOR:  Thank you.  And thanks, everyone, for joining today. 
So, as a reminder, this call is on background, attributable to a “senior
administration official,” and the contents of this call are embargoed
until the end of the call.

     For your awareness but not for reporting, the speaker on the call
is \[senior administration official\].  And I think they’re going to
have some remarks to start at the top, and then we can take some
questions. 

     So, with that, I’ll turn it over to you. 

     SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, thanks.  Yes, I’ll make a
few comments at the top and then happy to answer any of your questions. 

     So, Russia’s long-previewed invasion of Ukraine has now begun, and
our response has also begun.

     Today, we responded swiftly and in a united fashion with our Allies
and partners.  The speed and coordination of the response was historic. 
We announced our first tranche of sanctions in less than a day with
Allies and partners from the European Union, from the United Kingdom,
Canada, Japan, and Australia.

     This response was taken much faster and goes much further than what
we did in 2014.

     Let me say a few words about the details of the package.  First,
after consultations overnight with Germany, Russia’s Nord Stream 2
natural gas pipeline will not become operational.  That’s an $11 billion
investment and a prized gas pipeline controlled by Russia that will now
go to waste, and it sacrifices what would have been a cash cow for
Russia’s financial coffers.

     But it’s not just about the money.  This decision will relieve
Russia’s geostrategic chokehold over Europe through its supply of
natural gas, and it’s a major turning point in the world’s energy
independence from Russia.

     Second, we’ve made a demonstration of the power of our financial
sanctions.  And make no mistake, this is only the sharp edge of the pain
we can inflict.

     So, again, in lockstep with our Allies, we’re fully blocking from
the U.S. and European financial systems the fifth-largest Russian
financial firm, which is V.E.B. — a glorified piggy bank for the Kremlin
that holds more than $50 billion in assets.

     And we’re also fully blocking a $35 billion bank, Promsvyazbank,
that finances the activities of the Russian military.

     In plain English, the full block of these banks means they can no
longer make any transactions with the U.S. or Europe, and their assets
in our respective financial systems are frozen.

     And let me be totally clear: No Russian financial institution is
safe if this invasion proceeds.  We are ready to press a button to take
further action on the very largest Russian financial institutions,
including Sperbank and VTB, which collectively hold almost $750 billion
in assets — or more than half the total in Russia as a whole.

     Third, together with our Allies, we’ve also cut off the Russian
government, the Russian Central Bank, and its sovereign wealth funds
from U.S. financing.  Europe has taken a very similar measure.  That
means the Kremlin can no longer raise money from the U.S. and Europe,
and its new debt can no longer trade in U.S. or European markets.

     Fourth, we have fully sanctioned a group of Russian elites and
their family members.  These individuals have shared in the corrupt
gains of the Kremlin, and they will now share in the pain.  Other
Russian elites and their family members are now on notice that
additional actions could be taken on them as well.

     Let me also just take a minute to address a key part of the
President’s speech on energy.  We were quite deliberate to make sure
that the pain of our sanctions is targeted at the Russian economy, not
ours.  So none of the measures are designed to disrupt the flow of
energy to global markets, and we are now executing a plan in
coordination with major oil consumers and oil producers towards our
collective interest to secure the stability of global energy supplies.

     Let me just stop there and take your questions.

     Q    Hi, thank you.  So, I just want to — you know, throughout the
last couple of months, there’s been talk from administration officials
about the idea of starting high and staying high.  This appears,
perhaps, more as starting medium.  And I was wondering how does this
square with the bigger idea of starting high and staying high, not
having things like SWIFT in this first tranche of sanctions.  And what
was the thinking on not including some sort of levy to reinforce the
German’s move on Nord Stream 2?  Thank you.

     SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, sure.  So, first of all,
these are — we are starting high.  These are severe costs that we’re
imposing.  Nord Stream 2, for example, is Putin’s prized pipeline.  He
poured $11 billion into building the pipeline.  It would have provided
billions of dollars each year in revenues.  That is now shut down after
very close consultations overnight with Germany.

     Second, you know, we made a demonstration out of two very
significant Russian financial institutions, both of which have close
ties to the Kremlin and the Russian military.  They control over $80
billion in assets.  And we’re clearly — I’m clearly signaling and the
President has signaled we’re prepared to take action on other Russian
banks, including the very largest ones.

     And then I think it is very significant that the U.S. and Europe
have fully cut off the Russian government, its central bank, and its
sovereign wealth funds from financing — from receiving financing from
the U.S. and Europe.  Over time, that’s going to mean higher borrowing
costs, less capacity to invest, lower growth, lower productive capacity,
and less overall ability for Putin to exert leverage on the world
stage.  So these costs are severe.

     The second point I would make is: Look, this is the beginning of an
invasion and this is the beginning of our response.  If Putin escalates
further, we will escalate further, using both financial sanctions and
export controls, which we’ve yet to unveil.

     And I want to also underline: Our response goes well beyond
sanctions.  We’re continuing to fortify NATO’s eastern flank to
reinforce our sacred commitment to defend every inch of Allied
territory.

     You heard the President say that additional troops and equipment
are going to be shifted within Europe to the Baltics.  We’re going to
continue to provide defensive military assistance to Ukraine.  Already,
we’ve provided $650 billion in the past year — the most ever.  And we’re
going to continue to work with Allies and partners to prepare for
economic assistance that can help Ukraine become a successful
alternative to Russian-style kleptocracy, which may be Putin’s greatest
fear of all.

     \[Senior administration official\], did you ha- — were you saying
something?

     MODERATOR:  No, no.  I think — \[senior administration official\],
I think you were done, so I think we’re good for a second question,
please.

     SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, please.

     Q    Yeah, who are the Russian elites that are being sanctioned? 
Do they include Vladimir Putin?  And if Putin is not included, why not?

     SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, so I’ll name the Russian
elites, which also includes their family members — and I apologize for
the mispronunciation:  Aleksandr Bortnikov and his son, Denis; Sergei
Kiriyenko and his son, Vladimir; and Petr Fradkov, who is the CEO of
Promsvyazbank.  So these individuals and their relatives are all now
fully blocked.

     With respect to President Putin, I’ll just repeat what the
President has said is: And all options remain on the table.

Q    Hey, guys, thanks for doing this.  I guess I just wanted to ask:
You know, if we’re not going with the maximum sanctions right now, is
there a fear that this sort of concedes the breakaway territories to the
Ukrainian control — or to Russian control, rather? 

Would you have gone bigger if not for — you know, we know that there was
some reluctance in Europe heading into to this.  And so, if you could at
all talk about how this package came together and how European concerns
weighed on what you went forward. 

And then, I was also wondering if you had an update on the — the
summits, both with Lavrov and Putin, that had been sort of floated — the
Lavrov one later this week — in light of what’s happened.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah.  Hi, Justin.  So, again, I mean,
these — these are severe costs that we’re imposing today: shutting down
Nord Stream, fully blocking two major financial institutions, cutting
off the Russian government from Western financing.  They’re severe
actions, but this was the beginning of an invasion, and therefore this
is the beginning of our response.

And I think, more fundamentally, just to get your question directly: No
one should think that our ultimate goal is to max out on sanctions. 
They’re not an end to themselves.  Sanctions are meant to serve a higher
purpose, which is to deter and prevent. 

So, we want to prevent a large-scale invasion of Ukraine that involves
the seizure of major cities, including Kyiv.  We want to prevent
large-scale human suffering, possibly tens of thousands of lives that
could be lost in a full-scale conflict.  And we want to prevent Putin
from installing a puppet government that bends to his wishes and denies
Ukraine the freedom to set its own course and choose its own destiny. 
That’s what this is all about.

With respect to the potential discussions between Secretary Blinken and
Minister Lavrov, I would just refer you to the State Department. 
Secretary Blinken is about to give remarks, and I think he’ll have more
to say on that.

Q    Hey, thanks so much for doing this.  I wanted to ask, regarding
SWIFT: At what point in the — and, I guess, the steps that Putin can
take — perhaps, you know, taking a wider swath, going beyond these
republics — is SWIFT going to be used or pulled from? 

And second of all, should Americans expect for some higher gas prices in
the coming weeks or months?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah.  Hi, Franco.  So, with respect to
SWIFT, as I mentioned last Friday and as you’ve seen today, SWIFT is not
part of the first package of sanctions that we’ve rolled out.

And look, we think there are other severe measures that have comparable
impact on Russia that we can take in lockstep with Europe and that don’t
have the broader spillover costs.  But I — we are not taking SWIFT off
the table.  It will remain an option that we can deploy, depending on —
depending on how Russia makes its next move.

With respect to gas prices, energy prices, you know, I’ll just — I know
there’s been some talk about whether energy prices are moving higher
because of the Nord Stream 2 decision, and I would just emphasize: They
are not moving higher because Nord Stream 2 is halted.  They’re moving
higher because they’re worried that Putin will weaponize energy supply
and hold the world hostage.

So, the right response is to reduce Europe’s addiction to Russian gas,
and that’s what today’s action does. 

And in the meantime, we’ll continue to work with Europe to surge natural
gas supplies from all over the world. 

And as I mentioned at the outset of this call, with respect to oil, we
have an ongoing effort right now to execute on a plan that’s in
coordination with oil producers and oil consumers to make sure the world
knows we’re going to have stable energy supplies.  And I think — I
expect you’ll be hearing more from other countries very soon about that
coordination effort.

MODERATOR:  Next question, please.

Q    Hi.  (Inaudible) anyone have that sanctions deter Vladimir Putin,
whether they’ve been small or large.  Is there anything else in your
toolkit beside sanctions?  Because he doesn’t seem to be responding to
these. 

And was there any thinking that, given what President Zelenskyy said in
Munich this weekend, you should start big — bigger — with SWIFT and
other things that might get his attention rather than escalating slowly?

Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah.  Thanks, Andrea.  Well, you know,
sanctions — they work over time.  And the pain is mounting in Russia. 
The stock market — if you look at its performance since November, it’s
down more than 30 percent.  The currency over the same time period is —
has lost over 10 percent of its value.  The interest rate that the
markets are charging the Russian government to borrow has now spiked
well above 10 percent. 

And, you know, if you look back to 2014 when we imposed sanctions, the
comments coming out of the leadership of the Russian government suggest
that were it not for the costs that we imposed then, which are similar
to what we’re imposing now, Putin may have gone much further, perhaps
all the way to Kyiv. 

Now, sanctions are not the only tool in our toolkit.  As I mentioned,
export controls are a key component of our potential sanctions
response.  And they’re similar in concept to financial sanctions.  In
both cases, we’re denying something to Russia that they need and they
can’t replace from anywhere else or produce at home.

And so, export controls are really potent because we’re talking about
critical technology inputs that Russia needs to diversify its economy,
modernize its economy.  And we are fully prepared with a very large
number of countries across the world to implement those export control
measures if the invasion proceeds.

MODERATOR:  I think — could we do our last question, please?

Q    Thanks.  \[Senior administration official\], you mentioned the
sanctions would hit new issues of sovereign debt.  Are there any — is
there any impact on existing issues trading in the secondary market? 
And what’s your assessment of the ability or the willingness of Chinese
financial institutions to fill the void left by the U.S. and Europe?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah.  David, so this — we’ve designed
these sanctions so that Russia cannot raise money from U.S. investors. 
And Europe has implemented a very similar measure.  And so, it’s the
primary market that matters in terms of raising money.  And that’s why
we’ve directed our sanction towards that portion of the market.

Whether — as to whether China can replace U.S. and European investors: I
mean, I think the numbers speak for themselves in terms of the
percentage of the total that Dollars and Euro represent as a — as a
source of borrowing.  Also, just as currencies that are used to make
payments, to receive payments, and also to store wealth, store value. 

China’s share on all those metrics I just mentioned are in the low
single digits.  So it’s — it is — it is nowhere close to a substitute
for the Western financial system.

MODERATOR:  All right.  Thanks, everyone, for joining today.  As a
reminder, this call was on background, attributable to “senior
administration official.”  The embargo lifts officially now.  If you
have any questions, please feel free to reach out to me, and we’ll make
sure to get back to you. 

Thanks, everyone.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thank you.

3:52 P.M. EST
