---
tags: press-briefings
date: '2022-02-03'
modified_time: 2022-02-04 10:02:11-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/02/03/press-gaggle-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-2/
published_time: 2022-02-03 14:57:00-05:00
title: "Press Gaggle by Press Secretary Jen\_Psaki"
---
 
Aboard Air Force One  
En Route New York, New York

11:36 A.M. EST  
  
     MS. PSAKI:  I know this is a short flight, so I thought I would
just start.  And I know we’ve done a number of briefings, but just
giving you all just a couple of key points on the President’s engagement
in the operation that happened overnight last night. 

     The operation has been months in — was months in planning.  The
President was first briefed on this operation in depth over a month ago
by the actual operational commanders.  He was regularly updated by the
national security team on the planning details of this operation, to
include a briefing in the Oval Office on Monday. 

     Last night, the President monitored key aspects of the operation in
real time in the White House Situation Room.  I think you all saw the
photo that we released on that. 

     I also want to stress that the President directed the Department of
Defense to take every precaution to minimize noncombatant casualties in
the operation, hence how they proceeded with their — the operation. 

     Unfortunately, as we know and we saw, ISIS once again revealed its
barbarity in a final act of cowardice, and displaying a never-ending —
ended — disregard for innocent lives.  Hajji Abdullah detonated an
explosive device shortly after U.S. forces arrived on site, killing
himself, a woman, and three children. 

     Of course, there will be more assessments.  I mean, the Department
of Defense will do an assessment, as they always do.

     But just wanted to outline that at the top. 

     I know we also did a briefing on the trip today to New York, but
why don’t we get to your questions?

     Q    Sure.  Two subjects.  First, obviously, news of the day.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    Big picture: Strategically, what does this mean for U.S.?  What
does this mean for the Islamic State?  And what does this mean for
Syria?

     And did you coordinate or communicate with Russia at all, given the
airspace issues in Syria?

     MS. PSAKI:  Let me start with the first question.  Hajji Abdullah’s
death delivers a catastrophic blow to ISIS and shows that the United
States will take out terrorist threats no matter where they stand to
hide in the world — try to hide in the world.

     Last night’s effective action took a major terrorist leader off the
battlefield and makes it clear that we will hold anyone accountable who
seeks to harm Americans at home or around the world.

     I would also note that while this planning was taking place, of
course, we were also leading a coordinated effort, as you all know —
more than 200 engagements with leaders around the world — to stand up
for the sovereign — the territorial integrity of Ukraine. 

     And so, it shows the competence of U.S. leadership, the
effectiveness of U.S. leadership, and our ability to keep the American
people safe while also standing up for our values at the same time.

     In terms of international coordination, it’s a good question.  I
will have to check with the State Department on the specifics of it.

     Q    Was there a video component to the scene unfolding in the
Situation Room?  And who else was in there with him?

     MS. PSAKI:  I’m sure I can get you a complete list.  I know some
individuals were shown in the photo we released.  Members of his
national security team were there, including Jake Sullivan and Liz
Sherwood-Randall.  I think you could see John Finer in the photo. 
Obviously, the Vice President.  We will venture to get you a full list
of attendees. 

     Q    Jen, can you — on the trip today, there was some reporting by
the New York Times that the White House is trying to move more to the
center when it comes to crime, and there’s concern about reaching out to
police organizations.  And obviously, there’s a policing executive order
that’s supposed to be in the works.  Can you talk a bit about: Is there
a conflict between civil rights groups who want more accountability for
police, want less use of force unnecessarily, and what the White House
is doing right now, like on this trip?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say, first, we would direct the — reject the
notion that we were moving into any political direction.  The President
has a decades-long record of fighting — of being an advocate for
fighting crime and supporting local COPS programs with necessary and
appropriate resources and funding.       
  
He has never been an advocate for defunding the police, as you know, but
his record on these issues long precedes his time as President.  
  
I would say that he is also committed and he believes that both need to
come hand in hand — that pursuing police reform is a step that will help
rebuild trust in communities and is something that is welcomed by many
communities and police forces across the country, and he believes that
goes in hand with public safety.  Having effective, accountable
community policing to help us — helps us fight crime, and it also makes
us safer.   
  
So, while we are here in New York, what you will hear him talk about
today, as we’ve previewed a little bit, is his, you know, decades-long
commitment to supporting law enforcement, to ensuring that communities
have the resources they need too.   
  
And you’ll hear him talk about his sweeping and comprehensive plan to
adjust gun frime \[sic\] — gun crime and our focus on implementing that,
but also, again, ensuring that communities have the funding that they
need, including his proposal to double federal support for community
policing with $300 million more for cities, plus another $200
\[million\] more for community violence intervention program.   
  
But you will also hear him — and he also remains very committed to
taking steps we can to put in place police reform measures that he
thinks are long overdue.  Obviously, his preference was to have had that
through legislative processes, but we are looking at what can be done
through executive actions.   
  
I think you may have seen Susan Rice convey we’re not close on that
front, but we are working on it.  
  
Q    Jen, we’ve had six law enforcement officers killed by criminals
this year.  The President has not spoken out forcefully against any of
these attacks.  Even some of his supporters say the lack of forceful
condemnation is demoralizing to police.  Why hasn’t he spoken out more
forcefully against these attacks?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  More forcefully against attacks against police officers?  
  
Q    Yes.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  He went and gave an entire speech to the — to the police
forces just a few months ago.  He — we have put out statements, and he
has condemned the violence and the attacks on these police officers. 
He’s reached out to family members.  He is somebody —  
  
Q    But why not (inaudible) —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Let me finish my answer, because I think that’s an
inaccurate characterization.  And you haven’t even given me names of who
you’re talking about.   
  
Q    Well, Charles Wilson is —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  But the President’s —  
  
Q    — (inaudible) of the National Association —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  — the President’s record —  
  
Q    — of Black Law Enforcement Officers.  He’s one of the people who
said it’s demoralizing.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  The President’s record is very clear here.  He has a long
record of advocating for, supporting through funding, through speaking
out, the role of local police, of national police and the important role
they place — they play in addressing crime and keeping communities
safe.  
  
Q    Why not go to one of the officer’s funerals, if you’re going to
come to New York, and show support for the law enforcement?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  The President — we have been planning this trip in
coordination with the mayor’s office.  We’ve invited a number of
officials to attend the trip.  He also is, as you know, going to the
police headquarters to make clear his strong support for them.  
  
Q    Jen, I know you gave a little bit of the lead-up to the raid.  I
mean, can you give more on the President’s thinking ahead of the ISIS
raid?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I can, but tell me more about what you mean.  
  
Q    I just mean like — well, you know, a little bit more from either
inside the room — I know it’s the Situation Room, but like — or what the
President was thinking as this — as this raid was taking place.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I think the President, again, has been — received a number
of briefings, as I noted, from his national security team over the
course of the last several weeks, including one from the operational
commanders just a few days ago.  And the President was thinking: We got
to go after terrorists wherever they are and get them, and protect the
American people.  He also was — made clear and reiterated this at every
point in the process, to do everything we can to avoid civilian
casualties.   
  
So, I think you saw the photo of him in the room.  You’re always watc- —
in those moments, you’re always watching, you’re thinking about the
bravery and the courage of the — of the service members who are on the
ground, you know, implementing an operation.  And that is, of course,
front and center from him — for him always.   
  
But, you know, he was also thinking about, you know, the role he plays
as Commander-in-Chief in keeping the country safe.  And, certainly,
taking out the current head of ISIS is a big step forward in that.  
  
Q    Do you guys have a number on how many civilian casualties there
were?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  There — again, that is an assessment being done by DOD.  I
would note that — as was confirmed and I just confirmed again — that,
given that the intended target self-detonated and deployed a tactic used
by his predecessor, that that shows, again, the brutality of ISIS — and
killed his own family.  
  
We certainly know the facts of that, but I will leave it to DOD to give
any additional assessments.  
  
Q    And if I could, just on USICA.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    There are a number of House Democrats and Senate Democrats that
really want to see this done by the President’s State of the Union
Address.  Are you — do you guys just want to see the House pass the
Senate version of the bill, given that this — the House version is
taking a lot longer with all of these amendments?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, we’re not going to make a calculation or direction of
that from here.  As you know, the process — how it works — is: Once it
passes the House, it would — we would expect it would go to conference
and there would be a discussion about any disagreements or any final
details that are not aligned between the two pieces of legislation.  
  
That’s a normal part of legislating.  And we certainly support
that.  Obviously, the President has said he wants to sign it as quickly
as possible.  
  
Q    A few things.  Were you in the room last night — the Situation
Room?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  No.  
  
Q    Okay.  Let’s start with this one — today’s event.  The governor is
there as well.  This is an official event, but is this an endorsement of
her reelection — of her election campaign?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I think this is an event and an opportunity.  The President
is a big fan of the governor, but this is not a political event.  This
is an event for the President to stand with leaders in New York as
they’ve seen, you know, the tragic deaths of a number of police officers
recently — people who have been serving on behalf of communities across
New York — and also for the President to make clear he stands with them
in their efforts to address crime in their communities.  
  
Q    Two others from last night.  Was he able to watch the whole thing
live?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have a detail of how — of that.  
  
Q    And were any of — any members of the special forces team who
conducted last night’s raid involved in the Baghdadi operation?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I would point you to the Department of Defense on that.  
  
Q    There’s a meeting today — remind me — today with Presidents Putin
and Xi —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — in China.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    How do we feel about that meeting and not being invited to it?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  There are diplomatic meetings that happen all the time.  Our
National Security Advisor, I believe, just recently spoke with his
counterpart.  Let me just get all the specific details on this so I can
make sure it’s accurate for you.  
  
And, you know, our view and assessment is that — oh, I should say —
sorry — Secretary Blinken recently spoke to China’s Foreign Minister
Wang, his counterpart, and underscored the global security and economic
risk posed by further Russian aggression against Ukraine and conveyed
that de-escalation and diplomacy are the responsible way forward.   
  
You know, that is the message we continue to convey, including the fact
that a destabilizing conflict in Europe would impact China’s interests
all over the world.  China certainly know that.   
  
But we have our own means of communicating through counterparts.  We’ll
continue to do that and continue to stand up for what we feel should be
global values.  
  
Q    And on the Supreme Court, any update on when he might begin
interviewing potential nominees?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I’m not going to provide an update on the process from
here.  
  
Q    Hey.  Hey, Jen, two things on Congress.  It seems like, on the
Russia sanctions negotiations, that Congress is intent to at least
include some preemptive sanctions into that bill.  Is that a red line
for you?  Or could you ultimately support something that has preemptive
—  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We have done some sanctions in advance already.  Our
approach — and we are in very close touch with members of Congress about
this legislation, which I don’t think has been formally even proposed
yet.  So, we are in close contact, in conversations with them.   
  
Our approach from the beginning has been based on our belief that, you
know, the crippling economic sanctions package that we have been
discussing and has been underway in our interagency process, which we
briefed Congress on, is a — has a deterrent — could have a deterrent
impact as we’re already seeing in the Russian markets.   
  
But we’ve never set a red line.  I’m not setting a red line.  We’ve done
sanctions in advance, and we’re in discussion with Congress about the
legislation.  
  
Q    And then, on the approps talks ongoing right now, can you detail a
little bit about the White House’s engagement in them?  And do you
support larger increases to the defense budgets to get Republicans on
board?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Those talks are being — we’re closely engaged with them from
the White House, from our OMB team.  But I’m not going to detail
specifics of those behind-the-scenes talks at this point.  
  
Q    If Russia —  
  
Q    And any — sorry, one more, Steve.  
  
Q    No, go right ahead.  
  
Q    Any fear that the ongoing talks now will further delay your budget
for next year, which I think Shalanda Young said is coming past the
State of the Union?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have any assessment of that.  I know she confirmed
that just a couple of days ago, so — but I don’t have a new timeline
beyond that.  That’s my understanding of where it stands at this
point.  
  
Q    So, if Russia and Belarus are having some military exercises, is
this any cause for concern?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  You know, we’ve raised — our U.N. Ambassador, Linda
Thomas-Greenfield, raised some concerns about this when she spoke at the
United Nations, where she talked about her concern about — our concern
about 5,000 troops in Belarus, the potential for 30- — up to 30,000
more.  Clearly, this is an escalatory, not a de-escalatory action.   
  
And certainly, we look at — look at, you know, these developments as we
make assessments about how to support and work with our other NATO
partners in the region.  
  
Q    With regard to the civilian casualties in Syria, are — is the
administration saying that they were caused entirely by the bomb
detonating or by crossfire from the one lieutenant engaging with U.S.
forces?  Like, what — give us some clarity on that.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Obviously, these events just happened overnight.  And so,
I’m going to let the Department of Defense do a final assessment, which
I’m certain they will provide additional detail on once it’s
finalized.  
  
Q    Jen, will there be any, like, evidence or, like, release to support
the idea — I mean, I know the U.S. has put out its statement that, you
know, they detonated the bomb themselves.  But will the U.S. provide any
evidence?  Because there may be people that are skeptical of the events
that took place and what happened to the civilians.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Skeptical of the U.S. military’s assessment when they went
and took out an ISIS terror- — the leader of ISIS?  
  
Q    Yes.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  That they are not providing accurate information —  
  
Q    Yes.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  — and ISIS is providing accurate information?  
  
Q    Well, not ISIS, but, I mean, the U.S. has not always been
straightforward about what happens with civilians.  And, I mean, that is
a fact.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, as you know, there’s an extensive process that the
Department of Defense undergoes.  The President made clear from the
beginning, at every point in this process, that doing everything
possible to avoid civilian casualties was his priority and his
preference.  
  
I just reconfirmed, and I think our national security colleague who did
a briefing this morning also reiterated, that the individual who was the
target detonated himself, killing his entire family.  
  
Given these events just happened less than 24 hours ago, we’re going to
give them time to make a final assessment.  And they’ll provide every
detail they can.  
  
Q    Civil rights advocates have asked the President to visit Rikers
Island.  I know that’s not on this trip.  Can you speak to why this
isn’t on the trip?  And is there a plan for the President to visit
Rikers Island anytime soon?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have any trips to preview at this point in time. 
Obviously, this trip today, which is a full trip, including the
President’s visit to thank law enforcement officials, to convey clearly
to them that he has their back, that he is going to continue to support
adequate funding and resources that they need to keep their community
safe, and also to meet, of course, with leaders in the state who have
shared concerns about rising crime.  
  
But, you know, I expect he’ll be back to New York, you know, during his
time as President, but I don’t have any preview of a trip to Rikers.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  
  
Q    One thing, Jen.  Do you have any updates on the German Chancellor
visit — if you’re planning a press conference or anything to share on
the details?  Or —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I believe we are, but let me see if I can get the final
details for all of you.  
  
Q    We’re about to land, just so you know.  
  
11:52 A.M. EST
