---
tags: press-briefings
date: '2022-02-16'
modified_time: 2022-02-16 21:50:54-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/02/16/background-press-call-previewing-the-vice-presidents-trip-to-munich-germany/
published_time: 2022-02-16 21:50:53-05:00
title: "Background Press Call Previewing the Vice President\u2019s Trip to Munich,\_\
  Germany"
---
 
*Via Teleconference*** **

6:18 P.M. EST

 MODERATOR:  Hey, thanks.  And thank you, everyone, for joining us
today.  As mentioned, today’s call is to preview the Vice President’s
trip to Munich.  This call will be on background, attributed to “senior
administration officials.”  And the contents are embargoed until the end
of the call.  And by joining the call you are agreeing to those ground
rules.  
  
For your awareness, our speakers today are \[senior administration
official\] and \[senior administration
official\]. Hereinafter they’ll be referred to as “senior administration
officials.”  
  
But before we get to the Vice President’s program in Munich, I wanted to
turn over to another speaker, \[senior administration official\], who
will offer some brief opening remarks.   
  
So, over to you, \[senior administration official\].  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Great.  Thanks.  I just wanted to give
everybody an update on the latest situation in Russia and Ukraine.   
  
So, yesterday, the Russian government said it was withdrawing troops
from the border with Ukraine.  They received a lot of attention for that
claim both here and around the world, but we now know it was false.    
  
In fact, we have now confirmed that in the last several days, Russia has
increased its troop presence along the Ukrainian border by as many as
7,000 troops, with some arriving as recently as today.   
  
The Russians have also said in recent days that they are prepared to
engage in diplomacy as we and our Allies have repeatedly offered.  But
every indication we have now is they mean only to publicly offer to talk
and make claims about de-escalation while privately mobilizing for
war.   
  
We continue to receive indications that they could launch a false
pretext at any moment to justify an invasion of Ukraine.  That false
pretext could take a number of different forms: a provocation in the
Donbas; a claim about NATO activity by land, at sea, or in the air; an
incursion into Russian territory.   
  
We have already seen an increase in false claims by the Russians in the
past few days, including reports of an unmarked grave of civilians
allegedly killed by the Ukrainian armed forces, statements that the U.S.
and Ukraine are developing biological or chemical weapons, and that the
West is funneling in guerrillas to kill locals.  Each of these
allegations is categorically false, and we should expect more false
reports from Russian state media over the coming days.  We’ve seen this
playbook before: their previous military incursions into Ukraine and in
Georgia.   
  
We don’t know what form the false pretext will take, but we hope the
world is ready.  Just as Russia’s claims about withdrawing troops were
false, so will be whatever false pretext they invent to justify this war
of choice.  No one should take these claims at face value.    
  
Nevertheless, we will continue to pursue diplomacy over the coming days
while being prepared to respond swiftly and decisively if Russia chooses
to launch a new attack on Ukraine.  
  
Russia keeps saying it wants to pursue a diplomatic solution; their
actions indicate otherwise.  We hope they will change course before
starting a war that will bring catastrophic death and destruction.   
  
Thanks.  And I will now turn it over to the other senior administration
officials.  
  
MODERATOR:  And just before we get there — just to confirm, all the
speakers that are speaking today are on background to be referred to as
“senior administration officials.”  So, all the remarks here are as
“senior administration officials.”    
  
With that, thank you to our first speaker.  We’ll now turn it over to
preview the Vice President’s trip to Munich.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks very much.  It’s a pleasure to
have this opportunity to talk with everybody.  As you all have just
heard, we are in a very decisive moment.  And the Vice President is
leading the U.S. delegation to the Munich Security Conference this year
as a resounding signal that engagement with our Allies and partners is
an absolutely critical part of our overall diplomacy and our approach to
this situation.   
  
Throughout the course of her trip, you can expect that she will be
discussing the full range of issues:   
  
First, the unity that we have achieved with our European allies and that
we are determined to maintain.   
  
Second, the economic measures that we have prepared and may need to
deploy depending on how things play out.   
  
Third, U.S. and NATO force posture.  
  
Fourth, support for Ukraine.  
  
And five, the diplomatic path to de-escalation that we have offered,
that we hope the Russians will take us up on.  And we’ll just have to
wait and see.   
  
Now, as you know, we have already undertaken very intensive engagements
with our Allies and partners over the course of the last several months,
and the Vice President’s trip will be a high-level continuation of those
efforts.    
  
At Munich, there will be several dozen world leaders present, and all of
them are going to be focused on this very pressing challenge that is at
the top of mind for us.  So, we expect that the conference, but
particularly the Vice President’s schedule, is going to be very intense
and it will include a series of high-stakes, high-level diplomatic
talks.  
  
She will be engaging with a number of leaders, and I’m going to mention
just a few.   
  
On Friday, she is going to meet with NATO Secretary General
Stoltenberg.  She will also have a multilateral meeting with the leaders
of the three Baltic states: Latvia, Lithuania, and Estonia.   
  
In both of these meetings, she will discuss the latest developments
related to Russia’s build-up on Ukraine’s border, our work together on
deterrence and diplomacy, our force posture and our readiness to further
reinforce NATO Allies on the eastern flank.  And, of course, she will,
as she always does, reaffirm our sacred commitment to NATO’s Article 5
commitment.  
  
In addition to those international meetings, the Vice President will
also hold a separate engagement with the congressional members who are
attending the Munich Security Conference.  There will be a very large
contingent of congressional members — two large bipartisan, bicameral
codels are attending.  And their intention is to use their participation
to demonstrate the commitment of the United States to our Allies and our
partners, and to show that it is both bipartisan and very, very strongly
held.  
  
So, with that, let me turn it over to my colleague, who will take
us through Saturday and address a couple of other issues.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Great.  Thanks.  Thanks, everybody, for
joining.  I’ll walk you through the second day, Saturday, of what is
really a busy weekend of activities.  And the main event on Saturday
will be the Vice President’s speech as a formal part of the Munich
Security Conference.  And in this speech, as throughout her public
engagements over the weekend, she will be addressing the situation on
Ukraine’s border and the threat of Russian aggression and the latest
state of play in what obviously has been — remains a fluid situation.

I won’t get into hugely specific details about her speech, but I can
give you some of the themes I think you can expect her to address.  And
one would be stock-taking of the really remarkable unity that we’ve
achieved across the transatlantic community. 

The reality is we think that the West is more united and NATO is
stronger than they have been in decades.  And that applies to our
diplomacy, where we have together put forward our diplomatic approach to
Russia; militarily, where we’ve coordinated extremely closely on force
posture adjustments that we’ve been making together with our NATO
Allies; and then on the economic side as well, including the severe
sanctions that we intend to impose on Russia if it further invades
Ukraine.

The Vice President will underscore how that unity is a source of
strength that will allow us to respond swiftly and severely to any
further Russian aggression.  

And I would just note on that, on these themes, you know, this is
something that the Biden-Harris administration has emphasized from day
one — the importance of allies and partners across the board, not just
in security issues and not just in Europe, but, in general, the
importance of allies and alliances.  And I think we’re seeing that play
out in this crisis in Europe today. 

Her speech will also focus on reassuring our allies and partners of our
commitments and how we’re committed to bolstering NATO and reinforcing
our allies in the face of Russian aggression.  And she’ll talk about how
a further invasion of Ukraine, we believe, will leave Russia weaker and
not stronger. 

And then, lastly, she will also address the broader stakes here. 
Obviously, we’re focused mostly on the very serious threat to the
country of Ukraine.  But it goes beyond that.  Russia poses a threat, in
what it’s doing here, to the European and international order.  And the
Vice President will underscore that and make it clear.

After the speech, she’ll have a number of other engagements with other
world leaders on the margins of the conference, and we’ll provide
details as they happen.  I suspect it’ll be a large numbers — large
number.  As you know, there are a lot of leaders at the conference, but
I’ll just flag two of particular importance here. 

One is that she’ll meet with President Zelenskyy of Ukraine.  And
that’ll be a real opportunity to underscore our commitment to Ukraine’s
sovereignty and territorial integrity, and to further coordinate the
diplomatic efforts that have been underway to provide economic and
defensive security assistance to Ukraine. 

And then, secondly, we anticipate she’ll have the opportunity to engage
with Chancellor Scholz of Germany — I should say “further opportunity”
to engage.  As you know, he was here at the White House just last week. 
And the Vice President looks forward to the opportunity to speak further
with him about this crisis and more.

So that is a sense of the speech and what we have planned for the second
day in Munich.

The last thing I would say before we look forward to your questions:
Just to note that, in addition to Vice President Harris’s engagement —
engagements with heads of state in Munich, some of which we’ve
described, the State Department announced earlier today that Secretary
Blinken is also traveling to Munich to engage with his foreign ministry
counterparts.  Our Ambassador to NATO, Julie Smith, will also be there. 
And this just further underscores the importance of this gathering at
this particular critical time.  
Thanks a lot.  And with that, maybe over to my colleague to open it up
for questions. 

MODERATOR:  Thanks.  Moderator, could you please provide instructions to
ask questions?

Q    Hi, thanks for taking my question.  Can you hear me?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yes.

Q    I am just curious about, you know, a lot of the details that were
laid out, obviously, at the top of the call.  And how does sort of the
calculus change if Russia does invade Ukraine when the Vice President is
in Munich?  If you can just talk a little bit about the contingencies
that have been planned for a situation like that.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Hi, Nandita.  Thanks very much for the
question.  As my colleague said at the start, we are in a fluid
situation.  This is something that we’ve talked about from the very
beginning in terms of what we have seen in terms of the buildup and the
fact that it is continuing.

And our determination to stand together with our Allies, to have very
strong unity within NATO as well as across the European Union is
unflagging.    
Her reason for going to Munich is to meet with what we think is over
three dozen heads of state who will be there.  She will hold these
highest-level meetings to consult with them on the latest developments
and to ensure that the transatlantic community, the NATO Alliance, that
we speak with one voice that is strong and resolute.
