---
category: press-briefings
date: '2022-02-18'
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/02/18/background-press-briefing-on-the-vice-presidents-events-in-munich-germany/
published_time: 2022-02-18 22:11:09-05:00
title: "Background Press Briefing on the Vice President\u2019s Events in Munich,\_\
  Germany"
---
 
*Munich, Germany*

AIDE:  (Inaudible) on background with a senior administration official,
and embargoed until the end of the conversation.  And it’s just going to
be \[senior administration official\].  
  
Q    This conversation.  
  
AIDE:  Embargoed until the end of this conversation, on background with
a senior administration official.  
  
So, \[senior administration official\] will give some opening thoughts
and then happy to take questions.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So, let me just sort of do a brief
overview and walk you a little bit through the events of today and the
plans for tomorrow.  
  
But in the context of this overall trip — in the context of the overall
trip, I think we already talked about a little bit, is that the context
of this administration’s approach to this crisis and approach to our
alliances and partnerships in general, which we stress was key to this
administration’s foreign policy from the start.  And it’s moments like
these that they become particularly important.   
  
And you’ve seen, I think in the recent weeks and days, a very
deliberate, intentional, coordinated, and clear rollout on how we’re
approaching this crisis.  You’ve heard it multiple times from the
President, from the Secretary of State, from the Secretary of Defense,
and the Vice President.   
  
And she came here as part of that overall approach to this crisis to do
a number of things: to continue the process of consulting as we continue
to flesh out our response to Russia’s aggression and threats of
aggression; coordinating that with our close partners in Europe who are
involved in this; and delivering the message that we’ve been delivering
all along to them — one of support and solidarity and commitment to some
core principles, and to the Russians that we are and continue to be
ready for diplomacy — and we put a lot of ideas on the table — but we’re
also determined to respond as we need to respond and impose costs if
they go ahead and continue with the further invasion of Ukraine.   
  
So this is part of a real administration-wide process of consultation
with our close allies.   
  
So it was, in that context, fitting that her first meeting of the day
was with NATO Secretary General Stoltenberg.  There are a lot of
elements to our response, and they’re not only military and defensive
and deterrence, but they include that.  And NATO has been a big part of
the response to Russia’s activities.   
  
And she used this opportunity with the Secretary General to further
coordinate how we as an Alliance of 30 countries are responding.  And so
they talked about some of what we’ve already done and some of what we
might need to do in the future.  And you know — we’ve already talked
about some of the force posture adjustments we’ve made to reinforce our
Allies to which we have Article 5 commitments in NATO.  So we’ve done a
lot of that, including sending troops from the United States — further
troops from the United States to Europe, and also what we’ve done for
Ukraine, including the $650 million of defense assistance.   
  
And she thanked the Secretary General for his leadership over the past
eight years.  He’s been a stalwart friend of the United States and a
great leader of this Alliance and is called upon to lead at a really
difficult time.   
  
So they talked about Alliance unity, the way forward.  I mentioned force
posture adjustments and also the diplomacy.  You saw that we, as
recently as Secretary Blinken’s speech — either yesterday or the day
before; it’s hard to even keep track — at the U.N. said that we’re still
ready to meet and proposed a meeting with Russian Foreign Minister
Lavrov.  NATO has done the same — the Secretary for NATO-Russia
Council.   
  
So this was a real opportunity to coordinate on all those fronts,
diplomatic and military.   
  
Following a meeting with Secretary General Stoltenberg, she met with the
three leaders of the Baltic states — Latvia, Lithuania, and Estonia.  It
was really important for her in that meeting — for the Vice President —
to underscore our enduring and unshakable commitment to NATO’s Article
5.  These are among the Allies who are most concerned about that because
they feel the threat themselves directly, and not least from the massive
Russian military presence in Belarus.  And so she reassured them that
the United States means what it says when it says it’s committed to
Article 5.  
  
And they, together, discussed some of the same themes from the meeting
with the NATO Secretary General — the force posture adjustments that we
made, the further troops and equipment that we’ve sent to Europe to, as
we’ve said many times, be ready for any contingency.  
  
The Vice President also discussed with them the issue of costs, which we
all in this Alliance agree on it, if Russia goes in further.  And that
requires coordination of economic sanctions, which has been a priority
for us as well.  These are members of the European Union, and their role
in that will be important.   
  
And then, finally, she had a meeting with a bipartisan delegation from
Congress — I think we’ve put out some information about that already —
but delegations led by Speaker Pelosi and Senators Graham and Whitehouse
— bipartisan, bicameral.  
  
The Vice President, as a sort of a tradition at the Munich Security
Conference, took the opportunity to meet with them.  And that was not
only useful to see them and discuss some of the issues, but to
demonstrate that our approach to this crisis is really a bipartisan
one.  There are plenty of divisions in Washington on plenty of issues. 
But I think it’s fair to say when it comes to standing up to Russia and
its aggression, we’re quite unified.  And that was a really important
message and is an important message that the Vice President here is here
leading our delegation.  And there are important members of both houses
of Congress here as well.   
  
Sorry to go on for so long, but maybe a couple of things about tomorrow,
and then after we’ll take a few questions.   
  
So, the main element of tomorrow’s program is her speech to the Munich
Security Conference.  I think, as I mentioned before, you know, you’ve
heard from other senior people in this administration, starting with the
President — and you’ll see, I think, her speech fit into the message
that we’ve been sending from the start of this crisis: that we are
preparing for either contingency, diplomacy or a response — a tough
response, as necessary.   
  
We have been putting the world on notice of what we’re afraid of and
seeing from the Russians — these provocations that we fear that they
could use as a pretext for invading Ukraine.  And in the past hours and
days, unfortunately, we have seen some of those.  
  
The Vice President — I think you can expect her to articulate some core
themes.  And I (inaudible) get into too much detail about the speech,
but she will no doubt articulate some important themes, including
“strength through unity.”  The whole point of meeting with these close
Allies is that we’re stronger when we’re acting together.   
  
I think she’ll underscore some of the core principles that are at stake
here — you know, not least that: One country simply can’t decide it’s
just going to invade another country and violate the sovereignty and
territorial integrity.  It’s a core principle of NATO and many other
organizations in which we’re a part, and certainly one that we believe
in and the Vice President strongly believes in.  
  
She will make clear, as we have been making clear for days and weeks and
months, that we remain, even at this late hour, open to diplomacy.  But
if the Russians reject that diplomacy that we have offered, that will be
a sign that they weren’t really serious about it.  
  
I think you can expect the Vice President to be clear about the costs
that would be imposed on Russia if it further invades Ukraine.  We’ve
been pretty clear that those (inaudible) will include significant,
severe, and swift financial sanctions and export controls that will be
very costly to Russia and weaken Russia.   And that’s, in fact, one of
the core points that, regardless of what happens, we, in this Alliance,
believe we will emerge stronger and Russia will emerge weaker.   
  
Then, the rest of the schedule I think we discussed on the call the
other day: a bilateral meeting with President Zelenskyy of Ukraine, a
bilateral meeting with Chancellor Scholz of Germany.  And then a number
of other, you know, what we call “pull-asides” with a number of other
leaders — world leaders in town that she will be meeting with.  
  
I don’t have a list for you, frankly, simply because the schedule, like
the world is, is in flux.  And we haven’t set a final schedule, but you
can be sure there’ll be a number of other world leaders that she’ll
spend some time with — once again, because — going back to the core
point that we’re stronger when we’re together, this whole trip is about
coordinating with key partners.  
  
AIDE:  Great.  Let’s open it up to questions.  
  
Q    Can we — you mentioned the conversations today with the Baltic
leaders and commitment to Article 5.  They also were asked for a greater
U.S. presence.  (Inaudible) pretty blunt, and I thought that the wording
was strong about “we’ve lost our freedom to Russia once; we don’t want
to do it again” — is what Estonia’s Prime Minister said.   
  
What commitments are you guys ready to make to them?  And in the case of
Lithuania, they formally asked to go from the rotational presence to
something more permanent.  Is this just necessary at this point in the
world we live in for there to be a bigger and more permanent presence on
the eastern flank?  
  
And then, secondly, on Zelenskyy, is there any concern tomorrow about
him coming, even if it’s just for several hours, to be seen outside of
Ukraine at such a fluid and difficult time?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So, on the first, I don’t have any new
announcements on force posture in Europe beyond those that, you know,
our administration has already announced.  Because I did say that we
have adjusted force posture.  And we do that to be ready for any
contingency, and that’s — that’s what we remain determined to do.   
  
As you know, there is already NATO force posture presence in the Baltic
states: battalions announced — rotational battalions after 2014, and
also Baltic Air Policing, where NATO countries help them patrol the
airspace.   
  
But I think you will find that our force posture — we have said: If
Russia further invades Ukraine, then we will continue to look at the
force posture that is necessary to make sure Article 5 is preserved,
protected, and all of our countries can be defended.   
  
On Zelenskyy, I don’t have anything to announce that we announced the
other day.  I think you probably saw that his spokesman put out a
statement that they were considering their trip, so I can only refer you
to the Ukrainians as to President Zelenskyy’s plans about being in
Munich.   
  
Q    Is there any concern about him coming?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  No.  What is important is that we
continue our dialogue with the Ukrainians and continue to demonstrate
support for the Ukrainians.  
  
President Biden has spoken a number of times with President Zelenskyy. 
Secretary Blinken has been in Kyiv.  We have, as a government, engaged
very closely to demonstrate our support for Ukraine in this
situation.   
  
And when President Zelenskyy said he was going to be in Munich, this was
another opportunity to continue that dialogue.  And if he’s here, the
Vice President will be — it will be an important opportunity for her to
engage with him.  
  
Q    So, there is no effort to ask or encourage Zelenskyy not to leave
Ukraine?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  That’s really his call.  It’s really up
to him where he feels he needs to be.  If he’s in Munich, the Vice
President will look forward to meeting with him.  If he decides he needs
to be in Ukraine, we’ll find other ways of engaging with him to keep on
the dialogue that we’ve had from the start.  
  
Q    Following up also on the Lithuanian — I mean, that was a very
public request.  It was made very directly to Vice President Harris
about the permanent troops.  I mean, what do you — what do you make of
just the fact that it’s such a public request?  I mean, is it — is that
— you mentioned things will change if there’s invasion.  Does that mean
permanent rotation is under consideration?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  What it means is that we have had and
continue to have a very fruitful and, I think, satisfactory dialogue
with all of our NATO partners, including — or, you might even say,
especially — the Baltic states in recent weeks and months about force
posture, and we’ll continue to do so.  
  
Secretary Austin was just at the NATO defense ministerial in Brussels. 
He then went on to Poland and is going to Lithuania to continue this
discussion of what is the best and right force posture for the United
States and NATO in Europe.   
  
So, I don’t have anything beyond that to say except that, obviously,
we’re constantly looking at what we need to do to defend all of our NATO
Allies.  
  
Q    Do you know, has President Putin — has President Putin made up his
mind on whether to attack or not?  Does the U.S. believe he knows now
what he’s going to do?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So, I think you’ve heard us be pretty
clear that we don’t try to figure out what’s in his mind.  All we can do
is watch what we’re watching.  
  
Q    So, no determination has been made yet on whether he plans to
attack or not, at this point?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  We can’t know what’s in his head.  We
can’t know what’s in his head.  We just have to prepare for what — you
know, we have noted what we feared could precede an invasion as being
alleged provocations and what could be a pretext.  We’re seeing some of
those things which are a great cause for concern.  And that’s why our
diplomacy that the Vice President is leading here in Munich has been
intensified.  But we’re not going to guess what’s in President Putin’s
mind.  
  
Q    A couple of quick questions.  President Putin obviously did a news
conference earlier today in which he sort of brushed off, you know, the
threat of —  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I’m sorry, what news conference?  
  
Q    President Putin did a news conference earlier today, which you’re
obviously aware of, but there he spoke about sort of how the West always
finds a pretext to impose sanctions on Moscow.  So, essentially, kind of
brushing off the threat that has been sort of the cornerstone of the,
you know, the U.S. strategy.   
  
How concerned are you that, you know, this has kind of failed to really
deter him in the past?  Do you — do you really think that that’s going
to happen this time?  
  
And also, separately, the Russian Defense Ministry said that he’s going
to oversee nuclear drills in Russia on Saturday.  Do you consider that
to be a concerning sign — a sign of escalation?  How — you know, how are
you thinking about, sort of, Putin looking at nuclear drills in Russia
in this situation?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So, on the first, you know, look,
obviously there are no guarantees.  All we can do is make clear that
there will be severe costs if Russia decides to further invade
Ukraine.   
  
We’ve also made clear, because you alluded to him saying that “they’ve
put sanctions on us before” — which is true; we have done for other
violations — we’ve made clear that these sanctions would go well beyond
anything we’ve done in the past.  And we’ve put on some significant
sanctions not just in 2014 after the invasion of Ukraine and annexation
of parts of southeastern Ukraine and the annexation of Crimea, but well
beyond anything we’ve done since then.   
  
And I mention that that will include very severe financial sanctions,
coordinated with our European allies, and export controls to weaken
Russia’s industrial base, defense industrial base.   
  
So, we hope President Putin really takes that to heart and gets that
message, because if he thinks somehow invading or occupying Ukraine will
strengthen Russia, we believe we’re going to demonstrate through these
actions the opposite is the case.  
  
Q    So you’re confident that this is going to act as a deterrent?   
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I’m sorry?  
  
Q    So you’re confident that this is going to act as a deterrent? 
Everything you have planned, in terms of export controls and sanctions,
that is going to deter him this time around?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I’m not making any predictions about
it.  I’m just describing what the thinking behind what we’re doing is. 
We’re bolstering Ukraine.  We’re reinforcing our NATO Allies in Europe
to make sure they’re safe.  And we’re going to hit Russia with very
severe economic costs if it goes in, while also saying, to this day: We
are ready for and prefer a different path, which is diplomacy.   
  
So I’m not making any predictions.  I’m just describing what we’re
conveying with the hope that it will lead the Russians to see that they
are better off and we are all better off if they choose the course of
diplomacy.   
  
Q    And could you please answer my question on the nuclear drills?  The
— you know, that the Defense Ministry said is going to happen tomorrow
and Putin is going to actually be overseeing them.  Do you think that is
— would you classify that as escalation?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yes.  I think — obviously, in the
context like this with so many military forces deployed and lots of
tensions in the region, I think it’s fair to say that adding on top of
that with nuclear and other strategic exercises is escalatory and
unfortunate.  
  
Q    Hey, can you talk about the coordination or whatever between the
Vice President and the Secretary of State?  Are they talking?  Are they
meeting regularly?  Are they kind of staying in their own lane and all
of that stuff?  
  
And a second question: I wonder — one of the things that President Biden
did was sort of speak directly to the Russian people, you know, in some
of his speeches over the last week.  I wonder if the Vice President
plans to do something similar to issue a message or (inaudible) directly
to the Russian people, directly to Putin in her speech, or whenever.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So, on the latter, I’ll leave that to
the speech.  I described some of the key themes I thought — I think you
can expect her to address.  But I won’t preempt the speech further on
that particular point.   
  
Although, you know, we do think it’s important — and that’s why the
President embraced it — and that’s, you know, linked to this issue of
costs as well, because we want the Russian people to know this is not
against the Russian people.  We’re trying to defend Ukraine against an
invasion, and have no ill will towards the Russian people.  That’s why
we prefer diplomacy.   
  
As for the Vice President and Secretary Blinken: Yes, they are in
extraordinarily close contact.  They’ve met several times today, in fact
— or at least a couple of times — including a private meeting this
morning to coordinate and work together on how we’re going to advance
our —  
  
Q    (Inaudible.)  
  
Q    Blinken.  
  
Q    And?  
  
Q    The VP.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  The Vice President and Secretary
Blinken (inaudible).  
  
And so, you know, I actually began by talking about how, we as an
administration, have been rolling out a deliberate, intentional,
coordinated strategy with multiple actors doing multiple things as part
of the same team, and that’s what this deployment to Munich is.  
  
I mentioned the Vice President has had and will continue to have a
number of bilateral meetings with her counterparts — as mentioned, the
two presidents and prime minister of the Baltic states, Chancellor
Scholz, Secretary General of NATO, and President Zelenskyy.   
  
And Secretary Blinken has had and will continue to have numerous
contacts with his foreign minister counterparts, both bilaterally and
multilaterally.   
  
So, we are — you know, in the context of what I mentioned about being
here and coordinating, and, you know, this is all about strength, unity,
dialogue, and coordination.  That — you know, their activities here are
a core part of that approach.  
  
But, absolutely intimately in contact with each other, including, as I
mentioned, discussions throughout the day.  
  
Q    Can you share — can you share anything of what they’ve talked about
or specifics, like how, specifically, does he guide her — whether it’s
in a specific meeting or a specific question, or is it more as a
sounding board?  I just want to understand it better.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  No, they’re implementing the same
strategy.  And I’ve described — we’ve all described what we’re doing
here: coordinating a joint approach with Europeans on sanctions, if it
comes to that; looking together with our NATO partners on force posture
adjustments; and discussing our support for Ukraine, which is not just
military, but the sovereign loan guarantee.  And so, they are
implementing the exact same policy set by the President, and they’re
doing it together.   
  
AIDE:  We have time, folks, for two more questions.  
  
Q    On the SWIFT —  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Let’s go to Molly.  She hasn’t had a
chance.  And then come back to Jennifer.  
  
Q    Oh, go ahead.  Yeah.  
  
Q    Thanks.  I wanted to ask about the (inaudible) reports of the
Russian separatists reporting mass evacuations and signaling that
there’s a possible explosion that — a lot of reports coming out of that
region.   
  
You talked about the Vice President being willing to talk about some of
these false-flag efforts in her speech.  How specific do you expect her
to get?  And does the United States believe that these reports of mass
evacuations that we’re seeing are part of a false-flag effort that are
starting and could, perhaps, lead to a full-scale invasion by Russia?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So, I’m just not sure I specifically
said she would talk about that in her speech.  If I did, maybe I
misspoke, because what I was suggesting is that that has been the
predicate to her speech.  Like, she’s giving a speech at a moment when
we’ve already warned that we’re going to see a potential pretext for an
invasion, and we’ve already started to do that.  So that’s like where we
are at the moment she’s giving her speech.  I think it’s been important
to do that in advance because we’ve seen it play out.   
  
So, as for confirming — I think I mentioned the other day when we talked
about this — you know, this approach of throwing spaghetti at the wall. 
They’ve alleged many, many different things, most of which we can’t
confirm.  And that is concerning because they are all potentially in
that category of things that they’re going to point to.   
  
So you mentioned the specific one of evacuations.  That’s troubling, as
are the allegations of shelling and missile deployments and many of the
other things that they have alleged that we’re not able to confirm,
which makes us worry that this is part of what we were afraid of: that
they’re coming up with some pretext for using force against Ukraine.   
  
Q    Is there any update on the troop levels?  You know, since the
7,000, have there been — has the administration seen any additional
troops come in the last — I guess, was it — has it been 24 hours since
the 7,000?  Or 48 hours?  Does — do the numbers continue to rise?  Are
there more signs on the border of a potential invasion?    
  
And also, you mentioned about seriousness of diplomacy.  Does the
administration now feel or is it increasingly feeling that Russia is not
interested in diplomacy?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So, on the first, I won’t go beyond.  I
think the President, you know, yesterday said something about, you know,
upwards of 150,000 troops.  We do — we have been clear that we are not
seeing the withdrawals that they are claiming.  In fact, the 7,000 you
refer to is — not only did we not see the withdrawals, but we saw an
additional 7,000, and we have not seen withdrawals (inaudible).  
  
Q    But have you seen increases since then?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I don’t have any increases to announce
here.  
  
And the second part of your question is on diplomacy?  
  
Q    About diplomacy.  And does the United States — you know, Harris
said it’s up to — the onus is on Russia to take diplomacy seriously.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah.   
  
Q    Is the consideration that — does the United States now acknowledge
or think that Russia is not taking it seriously — diplomacy?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  The next few days will tell us a lot. 
I think you heard Secretary Blinken at the United Nations the other day
make that clear that he is ready to meet his counterpart.  NATO did the
same — the NATO-Russia Council.  
  
If Russia invades, notwithstanding our offers to continue to talk
following these specific things we put on the table in terms of
diplomacy, I think we would be forced by that to conclude that Russia is
not ready for diplomacy.  That would be the sign.  But until that
happens, we’re still (inaudible), because that’s a far preferable
approach for everybody.  
  
Q    And until that happens, can you not rule out that they are not
willing to find some sort of diplomatic — I mean, it seems like we’ve
been in this pattern, the status quo, for a while.  The administration
is saying that, you know, they’re poised to do something at any time. 
It’s been a couple weeks.  Things haven’t happened.  And I guess the
question is, sort of — it seems like by saying you’re not closing the
door, that you are leaving some room open for them to still come to the
table and do that in a substantive way.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  We are.  The space has gotten narrower
and narrower over time, with the troop buildup and the rejection of some
of the specific ideas we put on the table.  But we are not ruling it
out.  
  
Q    And in terms of what Putin said today about being willing to
negotiate but needing the West and the U.S. to take seriously all of
their demands, obviously the sticking point with NATO on foreclosing
Ukraine’s membership in NATO is not somewhere that you’re going to go. 
Do you think that this can – that there can be some kind of, you know,
point of compromise here?  Or are both sides kind of talking past one
another?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  We continue to be ready to test the
proposition.  When the Russians first put their ideas forward, we said
that some of them were non-starters but others provided a basis for
discussion, and we proposed those discussions then and we continue to
propose them now.  
  
Q    On the SWIFT financial system, Daleep Singh at the briefing did say
that that probably will not be part of the initial package of
sanctions.  Can you maybe explain a little bit why?  Why wouldn’t the
SWIFT — yanking them from SWIFT be part of the initial part of the
sanctions?  Is that something the VP is still talking with folks about? 
Was it because the Allies just were not quite comfortable with it for
various reasons, which are understandable?  Or can you just explain that
a little?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I won’t go beyond what Daleep said
about SWIFT, but I will say that coordinating specific sanctions with
the Europeans remains a core part of our approach and remains part of
the diplomacy that the Vice President is doing here in Munich.   
  
We believe we are already quite united and are determined to be as
united as possible.  And this is something the Vice President has
already brought up and will continue to bring up with our key partners
in Europe.  
  
Q    Sorry, just had a quick last question on Anne, during the briefing
in the White House, where she attributed the cyberattack on Ukraine on
Russia.  I was just wondering if you can give us any details on how the
U.S. plan — or Allies plan to sort of respond to that.  Are you planning
to retaliate?  I mean, how do you take that from here on?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I’ll have to leave that with what Anne
had already to say about it, you know, except maybe to say: Obviously,
cyber is part of this (inaudible) of things that we’re concerned about. 
We have heard that and the Vice President has heard it from partners
here in Europe.  You know that the Baltic states, Estonia in particular,
has been the subject of cyberattacks.   
  
So the only thing I would add is to just underscore that we obviously
take that seriously as a part of the things that we’re going to speak
about.  
  
Q    Is it fair to say the speech has been evolving because of all these
— the attacks and everything over the last few days?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  It’s fair to say that we have taken a
consistent approach.  Obviously, there’s — it’s a fluid situation and
new developments, and you always take those into account when you’re
doing a speech.  But I think you’ll find that the speech fits squarely
into the consistent approach that this administration has been taking
for weeks and months now.  And it’s just one more part of this important
project.  
  
END
