---
tags: press-briefings
date: '2022-02-09'
modified_time: 2022-02-09 16:52:08-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/02/09/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-february-9-2022/
published_time: 2022-02-09 16:52:07-05:00
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Jen\_Psaki, February 9,\_2022"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

1:24 P.M. EST 

     MS. PSAKI:  Okay.  A couple of items for you at the top.  Today,
the President is hosting a roundtable of CEOs of electric utilities from
all over the country to discuss his economic growth plan for the middle
class — the Build Back Better Agenda — which will lower energy costs for
working families, create good-paying union jobs, and build a reliable
clean-energy future as we tackle the climate crisis.

     The President and these executives will discuss — or they are
discussing, I guess I should say — how investments to reduce greenhouse
gas emissions and expand tax credits for clean energy and research — for
research and development are necessary, overdue, and critical for
increasing the resiliency of our electrical grid and essential to
helping the pocketbooks of Americans around the country. 

     The executives and organizations attending this discussion operate
key parts of America’s power grid, and they know that the best way to
ensure future economic growth is to make long-term investments to combat
the climate crisis, increase the competitiveness of our industries, and
protect our electrical grid from extreme weather events.

     Aamer, why don’t you kick us off?

     Q    Okay, thanks.  So, new CPI numbers come out tomorrow, and
economists are forecasting an index of, I believe, 7.3 percent
annually.  And I was just wanting to ask: What do you see in the data
right now that suggests inflation will fall quickly this year?  And how
confident are you that a decrease in inflation can occur without hurting
demand in the economy?

     MS. PSAKI:  Well, let me start with a little bit of a preview just
so — well, we don’t know the numbers; I know there are projections — but
just as people are preparing to look at these numbers and prepare to
report on the numbers. 

     So, first, when we look at tomorrow’s data, what we’re looking at
is recent trends in inflation.  So, in November and December, price
increases showed relative to the month before — slowed relative to the
month before.  And in January, they were down almost half from where
they were in October. 

     That’s a sign of progress that the inflationary increases are
increased — decreasing, I should say, month to month.  And we’ll be
looking at that wage growth compared — looking how wage growth compared
to inflation in January as well. 

     What is also coming out tomorrow is annual data — right? — which
is, I think, what you’re talking about. 

Q    Yes.

MS. PSAKI:  And so, as we’re looking at that, we do — we expect a high
year-over-year inflation rate reading in tomorrow’s data, given what we
know about the last year — right? — and what we’ve seen over the last
year. 

     That’s because year-over-year data largely reflects the price
increases over the last year, as we’ve already talked about and we know
about. 

     It’s not about the most recent trends, which I think is the
important component for people to look at.  Right?  There’s monthly, and
then there’s also the annual data.

     So, above 7 percent, as I think some are predicting, would not be a
surprise, even though we don’t know what the data is going to be — going
to be. 

     But looking at that reading of it as we prepare for tomorrow is
still consistent with the path, in our view — to go to your question —
that leading outside forecasters continue to project that inflationary-
— inflation is expected to decrease over the course and moderate over
the course of this year. 

     So, that continues to be outside projections, even as we’re
preparing for the new data tomorrow. 

     I think there was another part of your question, but I wanted to
explain what people should prepare for.

     Q    Well, I guess, with the — just getting back to “How confident
are you that a decrease can occur without hurting demand in the
economy?” — was the second part of the question.

     MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say, as you know, the Federal Reserve has
purview over — over taking the independent approaches they so choose
to.  And we certainly — as the President has said, he welcomes and
supports their efforts to take steps — or their plans to take steps.

     In terms of our confidence: We, again, rely on what their
projections are about the projection that inflation will come down, that
it will moderate. 

     And we are also continuing to take steps to continue to grow the
economy, continue to address the needs that the American people have in
the economy. 

     Q    And if I could ask a question about — New York, today, was the
latest to work on their mask mandates.  Several states are now, it
seems, well ahead of the federal government in explaining the path out
of the pandemic.  Is the President now falling behind states in
explaining to Americans how are — we all can, sort of, resume our normal
lives and get back to normalcy?

     MS. PSAKI:  Well, the President has been clear on — has said that
we are moving toward a time when COVID won’t disrupt our daily lives, a
time when COVID won’t be a constant crisis. 

     I think you all heard him talk about that in his press conference
two weeks ago.  And that is something that — as Jeff Zients, I believe,
just said during the COVID briefing earlier today — there’s an active
and ongoing work plan to develop a path forward.  And that is — there’s
constant discussion about that. 

     I think what you’re referring to, as it relates to New York — which
is an important component, especially as Americans are consuming what it
means and where we’re going of masks and what the mask guidance is —

     Dr. Walensky was also on this COVID briefing that happened just
earlier this morning.  And what she conveyed on that briefing — I know
there’s a lot going on, so you may not have all seen what she said, but
— is that we certainly understand the need to be flexible.  We want to
ensure that public health guidance we’re providing meets the moment
we’re in.

     We recognize people are tired of the pandemic.  They’re tired of
wearing masks.  I bet all of you are.  I certainly know I am.  We all
understand that. 

     But that — what our focus is on is looking at the data and
science.  So, there’s good — there are positive signs, as she referred
to: cases and hospitalizations are falling.  We’re looking at all of the
guidance based on the latest data and science. 

     She also said — which is, I think, important for people to note —
that we continue to — while we continue to recommend masking in areas of
high and substantial transmission — which is basically the entire
country at this point; that’s essentially everywhere — for indoor
settings, we are evaluating rates of transmission.  We’re evaluating and
looking at data to see if any changes need to be made.  And that is
something, of course, the CDC continues to do. 

     So, I would say that we are internally discussing, of course, what
it looks like to be in the phase of the fight against the COVID pandemic
where it is not disrupting everyone’s daily lives; where people are
moving on and living, you know, lives free of, hopefully, masks at some
point and many of the restrictions that we’ve all been living through
over the past two years.

     But as the federal government, we have the responsibility to rely
on data, on science, on the medical experts.  That’s something the
President committed to during the campaign.  They committed — they
confirmed, during this briefing, they are continuing to evaluate and
there’s ongoing discussions and work happening internally.

     Q    And just one last thing.  The Pentagon has yet to commit to
media embeds with U.S. troops that have and are deploying to the
Baltics?  Why?

     And is it consistent, just generally, with the administration’s
pledge to transparency?

     MS. PSAKI:  Well, I just saw the reports about this.  And I will
acknowledge to you I have to dig into this a little bit further.  I
certainly understand the question and the desire to be embedded with
troops and seeing what’s happening on the ground, just as many of you
have reporters and outlets who are near the border or seeing what’s
happening for yourselves the military buildup of troops. 

     So let me check into this and see if I can get back to all of you. 

     Go ahead.

     Q    Thanks, Jen.  Following up on that, does the White House
generally support the notion of troops — embedding with U.S. troops
around the world?

     MS. PSAKI:  We certainly have in the past.  Yes.

     Q    But I know that the Trump administration took a different
view.  So, does this White House envision a return to the practice of
U.S. journalists embedding with U.S. forces — when they’re in Eastern
Europe, for example — in the nation’s interest?

     MS. PSAKI:  That has been our overarching approach, as you’ve seen
over the last year.  I’d have to check in to this specific question that
Aamer has asked me and I think you’re following up on.

     Q    Okay.  Great.

     The White House has made it pretty clear there is no plan for a
mass evacuation of American citizens in Ukraine.  And, in fact, you and
the President and others have suggested that Americans who are in
Ukraine should leave now if they can. 

     At the same time, it’s been projected that Russia could overtake
Kyiv in two days if it invades. 

     So, what happens to Americans if they do get stranded in Ukraine? 
Should they understand that the U.S. is not coming to get them?

     MS. PSAKI:  Well, let’s just take a step back here.  First, we
don’t know that President Putin has made a decision to invade.  We still
don’t have a new assessment on that.  Right?

     I’m obviously not going to discuss intelligence reports, which I
think you also referenced. 

     What I can tell you is that it’s not just that the President or I
have been conveying this warning to U.S. citizens.  This is something
the State Department has been doing for weeks and weeks and weeks now.

     I know there have also been a range of reports out there about
American citizens.  As you all know, because we’ve discussed this
before, U.S. citizens are not required to register their travel to a
foreign country with us.  And we don’t maintain a comprehensive list of
U.S. citizens. 

     That said, the State Department does estima- — does estimates from
time to time.  And I know there have been much larger numbers out
there.  So I just wanted to reiterate for all of you that back in
October, the State Department estimated there were at the time — so,
months ago — about 6,600 U.S. citizens residing in Ukraine.  Not much
far- — not much larger than that. 

     There have been — of course, there are periodic times — during the
holiday season — where there are assessments of tourists and visitors
and others.  But in terms of citizens residing in Ukraine — many of
which would be dual citizens. 

     So, what people should understand is that the United States does
not typically do mass evacuations.  Of course, the situation in
Afghanistan was unique for many reasons, including that it was the end
of a 20-year war.  We were bringing a war to an end; we were not trying
to prevent a war, as we are certainly in this case. 

     There are a range of means that individuals and Americans can
depart from Ukraine, and we’ve been encouraging them to do exactly
that. 

     But what we have been — how we’ve been looking at this is much more
— much more similar to what was ordered in Ethiopia or Kazakhstan in
recent months, where the security circumstances on the ground warranted
travel advisories and warnings from the State Department.

     And can you explain how the process would work if U.S. citizens
were able to make it by land to Poland or Romania?  What’s the plan
that’s being put in place to help them?

     MS. PSAKI:  You mean if they cross the border?  Well, there are —

Q    If there is — if there is an invasion. 

MS. PSAKI:  Well, there are still — I think what we are encouraging
American citizens to do is depart now, obviously.  There hasn’t been an
invasion, and we don’t know that there has been a decision to invade. 
Obviously, we have a range of diplomatic presences — not only in
Ukraine, but in neighboring countries — that are always available for
U.S. citizens should they need assistance.

Go ahead. 

Q    Thanks, Jen.  HHS just put out a statement clarifying around some
reports that crack pipes are not going to be part of the “safe smoking
kits” that are funded by the administration.  But can you clarify for
us: Were they never a part of the kit or were they removed in response
to this reporting and this pushback?  Just — the language was unclear.

MS. PSAKI:  They were never a part of the kit; it was inaccurate
reporting.  And we wanted to put out information to make that clear.

Q    So, what is in the safe smoking kit? 

MS. PSAKI:  A safe smoking kit may contain alcohol swabs, lip balm,
other materials to promote hygiene and reduce the transmission of disea-
— diseases like HIV and hepatitis. 

I would note that what we’re really talking about here is steps that
we’re taking as a federal government to address the opioid epidemic,
which is killing tens of thousands — if not more — Americans every
single day, week, month of the year. 

We put out this statement, though, because there was inaccurate
information out there — or I should say, HHS put out the statement
because there was inaccurate information out there, and we wanted to
provide clarification on the allowable uses for the HHS Harm Reduction
program.  It’s not a change in policy. 

This program, though, is focused on harm reduction strategies, including
prioritizing the use of fentanyl test strips and clean syringes.  And
all of these harm reduction services that will be supported by these
programs are intended to save lives from an epidemic that we know is
devastating to communities across the country.

Q    And then — so just to put a final point on it, does the
administration support any effort then to distribute drug paraphernalia
like the types that we were hearing about?

MS. PSAKI:  We — the statement makes clear that we don’t support federal
funding, indirect or direct, for pipes.

Q    Okay.  Thank you.  And then on the safe injection sites that the
DOJ is evaluating: Was this an ask from the White House that they review
that policy?  Because I know that, for years, DOJ has opposed efforts to
open safe injection sites.

MS. PSAKI:  It’s under litigation, so I can’t speak to that.  But what I
can tell you and reiterate is that the White House is committed — as I
will — as I would reiterate for you, many Democrats and Republicans,
including Senator Cruz — to taking steps to address the opioid crisis. 

This is not an issue that is inflicting just blue states.  It is
inflicting millions of Americans across the country, and it is important
that we take steps to address it.

Q    So, just final wrap of those two items: What would you say to
critics who are concerned that the Biden administration is somehow
encouraging illegal drug use?

MS. PSAKI:  I think that it’s important to step back and remember — just
to put a little more of a fine point on it — that we are losing an
American life every five minutes to overdose.  We don’t have time for
political games. 

The President is focused on saving lives through harm reduction
programs.  That’s exactly what we’re talking about here.  They work in
red states, and they work in blue states.  We know they save lives; they
help connect people to treatment and recovery.  And they were endorsed
this week by a bipartisan commission co-chaired by Senator Tom Cotton
that examines steps we must take to address the devastating toll of
overdoses. 

So, what I would say is: This is not a game.  This is not a political
game.  This is an epidemic that is taking the life of five — of an
American every five minutes, and we need to work in a bipartisan way to
address it.

Q    Thank you.  Can I ask real quick about the masks?  We had another
state today dropping the indoor mask mandate as the CDC is confirming
that their guidance is not changing.  But these decisions that are being
made at the local level, like you guys always talk about, are out of
step with the science that is at the forefront of the CDC, of this White
House.  So why are we not hearing the same messaging criticizing states
that are, you know, making these moves like we heard previously with,
for instance, Ron DeSantis?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say there is a distinct difference between
standing in the way, which Ron DeSantis did — or Governor DeSantis; I’ll
give him his full title — of teachers, school administrators, and others
taking steps to protect the students in their school communities. 
There’s a difference between standing in the way of it, threatening to
pull back funding; and allowing for local school districts to make
choices, which is what a number of these states are doing. 

Go ahead.

Q    Jen, quick follow-up on that.  Does the administration risk looking
out of touch with where the country is heading, in terms of lifting
these mask mandates, if the CDC doesn’t revise its guidelines?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, again, we understand where the emotions of the country
are, right?  People are tired of masks.  I would say not even — if you
look at the polling though, there’s also a huge chunk of people who
still want masks.  Right?  So, it’s not even that specific.  It’s just
that, as you noted, there are some states that are moving towards
rolling back or giving more choice to local communities about how they
will implement these requirements. 

But, again, from the federal government, what our responsibility to do
is to abide by what the President committed to on the campaign, which is
to listen to scientists, listen to data.  That doesn’t move at the speed
of politics; it moves at the speed of data.  And they — Dr. Walensky
committed to — conveyed — or, I should say, confirmed that they were
evaluating this at the CDC. 

Q    And I want to just ask you about Russia.  You were very careful in
your wording when you were asked yesterday the extent to which the
administration understands what happened between Presidents Macron and
President Putin.  Can you give us any more information today?  To what
extent has the administration been briefed, has the President been
briefed directly on those talks, and —

MS. PSAKI:  The President spoke with President Macron this morning,
which I believe we confirmed?  Yes.

Q    And what does he understand about what came out of that meeting? 
Did — does he have the same sense of optimism that President Macron had
when he left that meeting — that, yes, perhaps there had been a tiny bit
of progress in terms of helping create an offramp for President Putin?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, Kristen, the President spoke, as I noted, with
President Macron earlier today.  He, as you know, spoke — hosted the
German Chancellor, and I expect he will speak when — with a number of
other European counterparts as the week proceeds. 

But what we’re looking at here, Kristen, is not reports out of a meeting
but whether or not Russia is taking de-escalatory steps.  They are not. 
They are taking escalatory, not de-escalatory, steps.  We certainly hope
that that changes.

Q    So you, based on the intelligence that you have, do not share the
same measured optimism that President Putin had coming out of that
meeting?

MS. PSAKI:  Again, we’re looking at — we’re looking at actions here, and
we have not seen de-escalatory actions by the Russians.

Q    Any imminent plans for President Biden to speak with President
Putin?

MS. PSAKI:  As you probably are tired of hearing me say, but I’ll just
repeat it: The President certainly values leader-to-leader engagement. 
He has spoken with President Putin, as you know, multiple times in the
past, including in person.  But I don’t have anything to preview at this
point in time.

Q    And if I could just ask you one question.  Overnight, the President
tweeted about this potential bill that has been proposed in Florida that
would restrict school districts from encouraging discussion about sexual
orientation or gender identity in public schools.  The President tweeted
out that he wanted them “to know that you are loved and accepted just as
you are. I have your back.”  What, if anything, can President Biden do —
is he planning to do — if, in fact, that does pass?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say, unfortunately, this is not the only bill
or the only effort we’re seeing across the country to really regulate
what students can or cannot read, what they can or cannot learn, and,
most troubling, who they can or cannot be. 

As I think you saw on the President’s treat — tweet, it’s cruel.  It’s
harmful.  And, you know, it is certainly something that is not helping,
you know, young people who are members of LGBTQI+ community who are
already vulnerable, are already being bullied.  I think the President
felt it was important to speak out. 

But in terms of specific actions, you know, we’re going to continue to
voice our strong views on this.  It’s significant the President did
that.  And if there’s any additional steps, I’ll let you know. 

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  Back to Ukraine for a second.  Tomorrow, it’s
expected to be these — this Russia-Belarus military exercise.  Is it the
sense of this administration that what’s expected to be this massive
show of force tomorrow and for the next few days after that could
provide some sort of cover for an invasion?  And is the White House and
are its allies on any kind of heightened alert given what’s expected to
happen?

MS. PSAKI:  I wouldn’t make a prediction of that.  I’m sure your
colleagues will ask the Pentagon that question.  But I think as we look
at the preparation for these military exercises, again, we see this as
certainly more of an escalatory and not a de-escalatory action as it
relates to those troops and the military exercises. 

This is happening at the border of Ukra- — at the border as well.  So,
that is certainly concerning to us, but I wouldn’t make a prediction of
what it means in terms of invasion.

Q    Okay.  And back to masks, not to belabor it — but in a matter of
weeks, Americans have heard the White House say masks are so important
you should get online and order yours for your family right now.  You’ve
got, now, this wave of states that are saying, “Actually, you don’t have
to necessarily wear masks.  We’re going to do away with some of these
mandates.”  And now you’ve got the CDC saying its guidance stands;
“We’re going to review things, but the guidance stands.”  Can you blame
Americans for being confused and frustrated and having no idea who they
should be listening to right now?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, our guidance is consistently — has consistently been
this: When you are in a high-transmission area, which is everywhere in
the country, you should wear a mask in indoor settings, including
schools.   
  
     There are states that have rolled back their mask guidelines, that
have given more flexibility to communities.  They’re different; they’re
just not uniform, what every state has done.  And, certainly, we
continue to advise and recommend abiding by public health guidelines.   
  
     Q    But do you dispute that Americans are confused by what’s
happening right now?  
  
     MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think we should do everything we can to prevent
them from being confused, so I’m restating what our policy is here, from
the federal government, which is based on public health guidelines.  
  
     Q    And does the CDC run the risk of becoming irrelevant in the
minds of many Americans, given that their states are moving along —
ahead without them?   
  
     MS. PSAKI:  Well, I don’t think the federal experts on health and
medical advice should be irrelevant to Americans at a time where we’re
still facing a pandemic.   
  
     Go ahead.

Q    Negotiations on a Russian sanctions bill have stalled in Congress,
or hit a bump.  What is the latest White House thinking on that bill? 
What are some of the things you want to see emerge in the weeks ahead or
days ahead?

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Well, first, we believe it’s an important — important
to show a united front to Russia and, hence, we’ve been doing a range of
briefings with Democratic and Republican leadership and members and
committees over the course of the last several weeks.  
  
     We’ve been gratified by the bipartisan support we’ve seen for the
actions we’ve taken and will take if Russia further invades Ukraine.  We
welcome the bipartisan focus on Russia and Ukraine in Congress and think
that a bipartisan bill would send a strong message to President Putin.

Q    There’s momentum building for a bill to bar lawmakers from owning
stock.  Does the White House believe that lawmakers should own stock?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, let me just, first, reiterate something many of you
who covered the campaign may already be familiar with.  But, one,
President Biden believes — has never been somebody who’s owned and
traded stock as a member of the Senate.  He’s talked about that a lot
throughout his career.   
  
     During the campaign, he committed to work with Congress to take
steps to ensure that there wasn’t conflicts of interest that are being
presented as — as this legislation is being discussed.  And he also
believes that all government agencies and officials, including
independent agencies, should be held to the highest ethical
standards.   
  
     It’s early in the legislative process, so I don’t have a new
comment today on the specifics of this legislation.  But I would just
reiterate how the President has operated and conducted himself, as he
has been in public life for just a few years now.

Q    Last question.  Senator Manchin has talked about there’s no more
Build Back Better bill publicly.  Has the White House or your team ever
considered rebranding the bill — a name change?  Is that something that
you’ve considered and you think would be beneficial?

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Look, I think our objective is working with
Democrats, Republicans — if they decide they’re for lowering the cost of
prescription drugs, they’re welcome to join us in this effort — but to
determine how much of the President’s Build Back Better agenda —
whatever you call it — can be moved forward. 

And there is agreement on a number of big components, including with
Senator Manchin, about the importance of lowering the cost of childcare,
what burden that has on families across the country; about the
importance of lowering the cost of healthcare; of making the tax system
more fair; of negotiating — of allowing Medicare to negotiate the price
of prescription drugs, something the President will be going to Virginia
tomorrow to talk about.   
  
     So, these discussions are ongoing.  A lot of them, as the Pre- —
you heard the President say at the press conference two weeks ago, are
happening between members on the Hill — right? — to determine what they
can have support for.  And our staff and senior members of the team are
engaged in those as well.   
  
     Go ahead.  
  
     Q    Jen, given that the CDC guideline still remains that masking
is recommended in schools, if you are a parent, a teacher, a student
living in a state where that is no longer recommended, should you still
follow the CDC guideline?  
  
     MS. PSAKI:  Yes.   
  
     Q    Yes?  So, even if the state is not requiring that you wear
masks in the schools?  
  
     MS. PSAKI:  Well, this is where we would advise any American to
follow the CDC guidelines.  And as Dr. Walensky said, and you
referenced, they’re constantly evaluating — right? — because the data is
changing, the science is changing.  It certainly is positive that case
numbers have come down, hospitalizations come down.  And they look at
all of that information.   
  
     That’s why it’s also important to note the difference between
leaders who are saying, “We’re going to leave it up to localities, local
school districts to make decisions.”  No parent who wants to send their
kid with a mask should be penalized.  No teacher or — who wants to wear
a mask should be penalized or school district who makes that choice
should be penalized.   
  
     But it — a lot of these decisions have been up to local school
districts.  In the past, we have made a — we have funded and we have
made announcements about a number of mitigation measures, which we will
continue to work with school districts to implement.   
  
     Q    And it’s been almost a month, I think, since President Biden
addressed the issue of the pandemic in the form of a major speech.  Why
has it been that long since Americans have heard from him in, sort of,
that kind of a setting about the pandemic?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say, first, the President answered questions
about the pandemic less than two weeks ago during a press conference. 
And, certainly, we have regular COVID briefings to provide the American
people with an update on where things stand.   
  
     We’re currently, as I noted a little bit earlier, discussing what
the next phase of the pandemic looks like.  That’s an ongoing process.
 And the American people can expect to continue to hear from the
President on it.  
  
     Q    Would it be fair to say that the President believes the
country is turning a corner on the pandemic?  
  
     MS. PSAKI:  Again, I don’t want to characterize, other than to
convey that we look at hospitalization numbers — they’re coming down. 
That’s a good sign.  There’s no question about that.   
  
     We are looking at all of the tools we have in our toolbox, which is
— certainly puts us in a very different position than we were in a year
ago, whether it’s the antiviral pills, the ability to send out masks and
tests to Americans who want them, the fact that 75 percent of adults are
vaccinated.   
  
     This is all good — these are all good signs, all good information. 
But we’re continuing to discuss and assess internally what the next
phase might look like.

Q    And I’d like to ask you a question about a CNN investigation about
the Kabul airport blast back in August.  This investigation looked at
medical records; it interviewed doctors in Kabul, victims, and
witnesses; and it raises some questions about whether anyone was hit by
gunfire, either by U.S. or British troops after the airport bomb
blast.   
  
     So, we’re wondering: Should the Pentagon further investigate this
matter?  Or does the President believe that this matter is closed?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I know that my colleague John Kirby is going to brief
later this afternoon, and CENTCOM has put out information on this.  But
I would really point you to them for further comment.

Go ahead.    
  
     Q    Thank you, Jen.  I have a question about how the President is
going to make the decision about changing the recommendation on masks. 
Is he totally determi- —  
  
     MS. PSAKI:  He will make the decision based on what the CDC
advises.  
  
     Q    Right.  Well, that’s what I wanted to ask.  
  
     MS. PSAKI:  Yeah, okay.  Go ahead.  Sorry.   
  
     Q    So, the CDC calls the shots here.  It’s not like he measures
trade-offs — the economy, mental health, people’s behavior.  It’s just
when the CDC says it’s okay to do, that’s what will determine his
decision, but he doesn’t take into account all these other factors?   
  
     MS. PSAKI:  Well, what he has made the commitment to the American
people on, back when he ran for President and we’ve tried to abide by,
is that he would listen to —  
  
     Q    “Listen” is one thing.  But —  
  
     MS. PSAKI:  Listen to the data, listen to the science.  And,
certainly, our health and medical team — obviously, the CDC is part of
that, Dr. Fauci, other experts.  You’ve heard though, I would note, Dr.
Murthy and others talk about mental health impacts.  So, I would point
you to them to talk about all the factors.  But we’re certainly going to
listen to our doctors and medical experts.  
  
     Q    What I’m trying to determine is what does “listen” mean.  Does
it mean that the CDC calls the shots here?  Or, as these governors have
done, does the President take into account the trade-offs?  
  
     I mean, this is about public health.  It’s not, like, just some
kind of abstract thing in a vacuum.  People — kids’ mental health is
affected by wearing masks.  Human behavior is part of this; the economy
is part of this.  Does he take those into account, or does he assume the
CDC will do that for him?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think, Mara, it’s also important to note that masks
are effective at reducing transmission in schools and other places.  And
we know that from what the data has told us, right?   
  
     There are a range of health and medical experts who advise the
President and make determinations about how the CDC guidance will be
changed.  But that is what we rely on, yes.

Q    There are a lot of doctors who are now signing statements saying
it’s time to lift mask mandates, especially for kids.

MS. PSAKI:  I understand that, but we rely on the health and medical
experts who work in the federal government, as we should, even as we
account for and consult with outside experts.   
  
     Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  You mentioned the President’s trip tomorrow to
Virginia.  Do you expect a new announcement of some sort on prescription
drug prices?  Or is it going to be kind of a familiar argument about the
importance of his Build Back Better plan?  
  
     And he’ll be appearing alongside a vulnerable House Democrat.  Will
that type of travel, where he’ll be going out with Democrats facing
tough reelection battles, be sort of the North Star as he accelerates
his travel schedule, or at least has said that he wants to do that?

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Well, on your second question, you know, I’ve become
quite careful about what I say about politics and campaigning from this
podium, but the President himself has said — so I can point to that —
that he is eager to go out there and hit the road for Democrats who are
fighting for an agenda for the American people. 

     So, certainly tomorrow, when he is out in the Richmond area with
Congresswoman Spanberger, this is an opportunity for him — to go back to
your first question — to really talk about his view that the fact that
Americans are forced to pay two to three times more for drugs than
citizens in other advanced economies is unacceptable, it’s flat out
wrong, and we need to act to stop the abuse of American families. 

He — as you’ve heard him say many times and I expect you would hear him
say tomorrow, insulin, which was invented over 100 years ago, costs
roughly $10 to make, but families are sometimes charged over $1,000 for
that — for it.  That’s unacceptable.  It causes untold pain for
thousands and thousands of families. 

And Medicare being able to negotiate the cost of prescription drugs — I
don’t know that it needs to be a new policy.  It’s a good policy
supported by many, many Americans, the vast majority across the country
— Democrats and Republicans, independents.  And we obviously want to
continue to fight to get it done.

Q    And then, Iran announced today that they have — or said that they
have developed a missile that can strike Israel or U.S. bases in the
region.  I’m wondering if you have a reaction to that and then, also,
kind of, generally wanted to check in on where you thought the sort of
progress on talks over a new nuclear deal are standing right now.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, in terms of where things stand: Special Envoy Malley
and his interagency delegation have been in Vienna for the eighth round
of talks.  As we’ve said, and this is a consistent — the report you
referenced is consistent with this — Iran — our talks with Iran have
reached an urgent point on mutual return to full implementation of the
JCPOA.  A deal that addresses the core concerns of all sides is in
sight, but if it is not reached in the — in the coming weeks, Iran’s
ongoing nuclear advances will make it impossible for us to return to the
JCPOA. 

So those talks and conversations are going — are ongoing.  But I would
say that, as I — as we noted back, I believe in December, the President
asked his team to prepare a range of contingencies because we are at a
pivotal point because of the progress that they have made in recent
years as a result of the former president and his team pulling out of
the nuclear deal.

Go ahead.

Q    Jen, thank you.  Does the President have a particular opinion about
this trucker action going on in Canada right now? Because it does — it
is affecting not only Ottawa but, obviously, some of these border
crossings.  And could it have — possibly have some impact on the U.S.
economy —

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah —

Q    — in the long run if this continues?

MS. PSAKI:  So, we are watching this very closely.  And because, as you
kind of touched on here, the Ambassador Bridge is Canada’s busiest link
to the United States and accounts for about 25 percent of trade between
the two countries, and so the blockade poses a risk to supply chains for
the auto industry because the bridge is a key conduit for motor
vehicles, components, and parts; and delays risk disrupting auto
production.

We are in close contact.  We’ve been doing a great deal of work on
this.  Liz Sherwood-Randall, our Homeland Security Advisor, convened a
meeting just today.  We’re in very close contact and coordination with
the Customs and Border Protection team, and Canadian counterparts,
Michigan Governor Whitmer, and industry stakeholders. 

We are also monitoring very closely and engaged with auto companies on
what the impacts could be of auto parts, which is what — what would come
from Canada and the impact on the United States. 

We’re also looking — tracking potential disruptions to U.S. agricultural
exports from Michigan into Canada. 

There are a number of steps that we have proactively taken, I should say
— the Customs and Border Protection team.  They’ve worked with Canadian
counterparts to route traffic from Ambassador Bridge to Blue Water
Bridge.  There is still a lengthy delay, but it is enabling some of
these trucks and transports to get through.

They also opened all nine commercial lanes, including a fast lane at the
port to process diverted traffic, and they’re working closely with
relevant automakers and other public- and private-sector stakeholders to
discuss alternative processing.  So, we’re working to ensure there’s
movement.

The other issue — let me just touch on what you didn’t ask about but is
an important component too — is there are workers who need to go across
the bridge to get to Canada or to get to the United States.  And the —
we are — the workers — they go over the Ambassador Bridge, typically —
they are being detoured to the Detroit-Windsor Tunnel, which is open,
which — enabling them to move — move past. 

So, we’re very focused on this.  The President is focused on this.  And
we are working very closely with the team at DHS, with Canadian
officials, and others to do everything we can to alleviate the impact.

Q    Does the President have an opinion on this action?

MS. PSAKI:  An opinion on it?  In what — tell me more what you —

Q    In what the truckers are doing.

MS. PSAKI:  About the —

Q    The message they want to send.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, we support peaceful protest, but we have concerns when
those protests turn violent.  And certainly, I think it’s important for
everyone in Canada and the United States to understand what the impact
of this blockage is — potential impact on workers, on the supply chain. 
And that is where we are most focused. 

Q    A follow-up on the border?

MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead.

I’ll come back to you.

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Jen.  I have a couple of questions on schools and —

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.

Q    — guidelines around COVID.  You’re saying, you know, the CDC — its
guidance remains that there be universal masking in schools and the
White House supports that recommendation.

As you point out, some of these Democratic governors who are lifting
mask mandates in schools, they are allowing local authorities to make
some decisions.  But the reality is: There are going to be a lot of
parents who no longer have their children wear masks in schools.  And
given community transmission is still high across the country — I mean,
the whole map on the CDC website is red — are you not concerned that
these decisions are going to potentially lead to outbreaks in schools?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, our focus continues to be to recommend everyone follow
CDC guidance, right?  And we know that wearing masks effectively reduces
transmission, as much as people are understandably tired of wearing
masks — we understand that. 

There were a number of other mitigation measures that schools have
taken.  Obviously, now kids age 5 to 11 are eligible to get — to be
vaccinated.  Testing so kids can remain in the classroom even if there
is a case is something we have also talked about and supported.  And
funding from the American Rescue Plan ensured that there was capacity
and ability to improve ventilation, social distancing, and take other
steps that are also effective mitigation measures in schools.

But, again, you know, our view is that if a student or a parent chooses
to wear a mask, they should be able to freely so that — and they should
not be prevented from doing that. 

Q    You know, one — this is happening as we still see this trend where
there is a drop-off in the vaccination rate when you reach those who are
under 18 — among adolescents, I think it’s just over half of adolescents
are vaccinated — and an even bigger drop-off among those who are ages 5
to 11, with pretty high numbers still around vaccine hesitancy.

Why hasn’t the White House called for a vaccine requirement against
COVID-19 for K-through-12 schools, which many public health experts say
is really the only way that you will be able to protect students in the
long term?

MS. PSAKI:  Because those decisions have historically been up to school
districts. 

Go ahead.

Q    Hi.  A couple of questions: On the Child Tax Credit, Mitt Romney
just suggested that you consider a bipartisan path toward his
alternative version of the program. 

MS. PSAKI:  Does he have 10 Republicans with him?

Q    So, he says it’s — he has a bipartisan group that’s been successful
in the past and that he is going to try and get here.  Has the White
House engaged with him on this recently?

MS. PSAKI:  We have been engaged with every member who is open to
engaging and looking to move the President’s agenda forward?

Q    Is his version an acceptable alternative if he can get the votes to
the White House?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have any specific reaction to his version, but I
would just note that in order to get any component of the President’s
agenda forward if it’s broken off of a reconciliation package, you’d
need 60 votes.

Q    On COVID: Kristin Urquiza, who spoke at the nominating convention
for the President, told us a couple of weeks ago that she is
disappointed that the President hasn’t met and engaged more directly
with people who are affected by COVID.  So, we’re at over 100 — over
900,000 deaths now.  Are there any plans for the President to host
people at the White House who have been affected by COVID, whose
families have been affected by COVID?

MS. PSAKI:  I’m happy to check and see if there is any plans.  I would
note that the President has spoken about COVID and his plans and his
commitment to addressing the pandemic more than perhaps any other issue
since he became President.

And more importantly than that to, I think, most Americans, he has taken
very specific actions to ensure that vaccines are available, that tests
are available, that masks are available, that schools are open, which —
that is what impacts people’s lives on a daily basis.  But I can see if
there is any plans for that. 

Go ahead.

Q    Is it the sense inside the White House that the decisions by
Democratic governors to relax some of these mask guidelines is driven
mostly by, as you said, the speed of politics and not the public health
guidelines that are driving the federal government’s policy.

MS. PSAKI:  I didn’t actually make that assessment, but I would point
you to all of them to ask them questions about what they based their
decision-making on. 

But, again, we understand local leaders — we continue to advise local
leaders, whether they’re governors or others, to make decisions based on
the science and data about what’s happening in their communities — and
what is going to keep in schools safe, what is going to keep kids in
their — people in their communities safe. 

And we will continue to abide by what federal guidance is advising,
which is based on the science and health experts in the federal
government. 

Q    And then on the meeting later today with President Biden and the
companies, how much is he relying on these companies to make clean
energy decisions kind of on their own in the absence of climate
legislation that is, you know, currently stalled or being renegotiated
in Congress right now that we know would be necessary to reach the White
House’s goals on clean energy?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think as many of these leaders have said — I mean,
they know that the industry of the future is clean energy, and so there
is an incentive for them to act and move in that direction.  And,
certainly, the President agrees with that. 

And there are a number of steps, even as we’re working to continue to
push to get Build Back Better passed, that we have already passed into
law as a part of the infrastructure bill, for example, including clean
charging — charging stations around the country, incentivizing the
purchase of electric vehicles, which, of course, is a — is an industry
that will help many of the American auto industry producers prosper over
the course of time. 

But, certainly, it’s where the industry is going.  And there’s agreement
between government and many of these industries about the opportunity
for the United States to be a leader in the clean energy movement in the
world. 

Go ahead. 

Q    Thank you so much.  I just have two foreign questions and a round
of follow-ups.  Starting with Build Back Better World, do we have any
news on when that’s going to be officially launched?  Have you
identified any programs?  Can you share any details? 

MS. PSAKI:  Well, we’ve talked — the President has talked about this
quite a lot on the global stage.  Let me see if we can get an update
from the NSC team about any new specifics on it. 

Q    Then I want to talk about something that Russian President Putin
said —

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.

Q    — the other day.  He made what many Russian speakers interpreted as
a rape joke directed at Ukraine.  Given that diplomacy is all about
talking, how does the administration view talk like this?  Does it
shorten the diplomatic off-ramp because it’s a pretty undiplomatic thing
to say?  And has the White House communicated to the Kremlin, you know,
“Yo, that’s not cool”?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, I would say that any joke about rape would
certainly be something that everyone in this government would be
outraged by, whether it’s happening from the mouth of a U.S. official or
a foreign official. 

I’d also note that we have never held back in our concern about the lack
of truthfulness of some of the statements that come out of the mouth of
President Putin and members of the Russian leadership, and also the
bellicose rhetoric that has come out of their mouths.  So, we have never
held back on our concern.  And certainly, that joke would not be
something that we —

Q    Have you reached out to the Kremlin?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have anything more in terms of diplomatic
discussions. 

Go ahead, April. 

Q    Jen, two topics.  One, back on the HHS issue —

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah. 

Q    — and pipes.  You know misinformation has a terrible ripple
effect.  What is this administration doing?  Because this has permeated
a lot of corridors that people are taking this in.  Are you or the
administration or HHS planning on doing something beyond the statement
to let people know that this is misinformation and correct it? 

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah, that’s a really important point, because I think
there’s been a lot of misinformation and about particularly this issue. 
And — and it has really clouded over what is a hugely important issue in
this country, which is a fight against the opioid epidemic and the need
to have bipartisan approaches that are going to help communities that
are impacted address it.

But, yes, we will certainly be building out our efforts to effectively
communicate that we are not — that what — what is in a safe smoking kit,
what is not in smoking kit — safe smoking kit, and what we are
effectively trying to do with our harm reduction program. 

Q    Has damage — has a lot of damage already been done just by this
information in certain communities, are you finding?

MS. PSAKI:  We certainly have seen — and I think, April, one of the
reasons we felt, even though we have never — this has never been a part
of what has been funded, we felt it was important to put out a public
statement from the federal government to make that clear, because we saw
the spreading of misinformation and the fact that it was having an
impact on a range of communities.  And we felt, even though it was never
true, that we needed to put out a proactive statement.

Q    Okay.  And on a second topic: I asked you on Monday about President
Biden and his last — the last time he talked to Anita Hill.  Do you have
any more information?

     MS. PSAKI:  You did ask me that.  I don’t have an update on that. 
I will venture to see if I can get one today.

     Q    Is she part of the external group that is working with the
White House on these nominations for Supreme Court?

MS. PSAKI:  There are a broad range of individuals — legal experts,
scholars, members of Congress of both parties — that are being consulted
with.  We have not put out that list of individuals publicly.  I can see
if there’s more information we can provide.

Q    Go ahead, in the middle.

MS. PSAKI:  Thanks, Jen.  Two quick questions.  One, we’ve heard from
the White House about this effort to reach out to Republican senators on
the Supreme Court nomination.  I wonder if you could explain a little
bit, kind of, what the focus of those conversations are.  Are you guys,
you know, fielding suggestions on who the nominee should be?  Are you
giving them a shortlist and getting their reaction?  I’m just kind of
curious, sort of, what the focus of the outreach to Republicans is.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, as the President has said, and we — I’ll just
reiterate — we’re going to choose a nominee — he’s going to choose a
nominee whose qualifications, record, character, and devotion to the
Constitution and rule of law make them deserving of support on — from
both sides of the aisle.  And there are many candidates at the top of
their fields who fit that profile and who have received bipartisan
support in the past. 

So, these conversations are not uniform.  Right?  Sometimes — and the
President is certainly seeking input, seeking feedback.  But he is
treating the process as he believes it should be treated, which is with
seriousness, which is approaching it from a bipartisan manner and
seeking engagement and advice from a range of officials, elected and
non-elected.

Q    And then, secondly, unrelated, but there was some reporting this
week that Labor Secretary Marty Walsh has offered to help resolve the
Major League Baseball lockout.  And I wonder if the President has been
in touch with him about that or if he has an opinion or a viewpoint on
the lockout.

     MS. PSAKI:  I’m happy to check on that.  And my husband is also
looking for an answer.  So, I will — I will check on that.  I don’t have
anything new.

Go ahead.

Q    Yeah, in — yesterday, in the event, you highlighted electric
vehicles.  Today, you’re highlighting the — the utility companies are
here.  Three percent of the market is electric — for vehicles — in the
U.S.  So, if Americans go out and buy a lot of electric cars, can the
grid handle the load without using more coal power?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think we’re trying to address this from many fronts
— right? — as you know and you’ve seen in the President’s infrastructure
legislation, which includes additional charging stations, which includes
incentivizing and making it more affordable and accessible for Americans
to purchase electric vehicles. 

But what we’re seeing is the increase in the market for electric
vehicles increase year by year — right? — as they become more
affordable, as there are more charging stations, as they are able to —
as more Americans can see themselves driving electric vehicles.  And
this is certainly something not just the federal government but many of
these automobile industry — companies are also seeing opportunity in. 

So, we’re all moving to — as the increase of the — as the market is
increasing, as more Americans are purchasing these electric vehicles —
to ensure there are the charging stations and the mechanisms needed for
them to be driven. 

Q    Sure.  But can wind and solar handle that amount of load on the
system?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, again, we’re working to increase all of the — all of
the components of what is needed to ensure that electric vehicles can be
powered across the country. 

Go ahead, Karen.

Q    Jen, can I ask you a question on Africa?

Q    Thanks, Jen.

MS. PSAKI:  Hold on.  I’ll come back to you.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  When the President met with governors last week, did
any of them ask specifically for more guidance from the federal
government as they were considering easing some of the COVID
restrictions?  And did any express any frustration that the CDC is not
moving quickly enough for them?

MS. PSAKI:  I’m not going to speak for the governors; they can certainly
speak for themselves.  I can just speak for what our position is and
what we’ve conveyed to the governors, which is exactly what I’ve
outlined for all of you.

Q    Has the President urged any governors to hold off on easing these
restrictions?  Has he had any direct conversations since then about what
they’ve all started announcing this week?

MS. PSAKI:  We’re continuing to convey directly to governors our
recommendation that they abide by federal public health guidelines, but
also our understanding and — that they may make decisions based on what
they feel is best for their communities.

Q    And has he had conversations this week with any (inaudible)?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have any to read out for you.

Go ahead.

Q    Hello.  So, President Biden nominated Los Angeles Mayor Eric
Garcetti to the U.S. Ambassador to India.  Garcetti’s former top
spokeswoman has filed a complaint with state, local, and federal
prosecutors, demanding that he be prosecuted for perjury for repeatedly
denying that he knew about another former aide’s alleged sexual
misconduct.  She’s saying that the mayor lied under oath during his
testimony before a U.S. Senate committee considering his appointment to
the ambassadorship.  Is the President aware of this complaint?  Has he
spoken to the mayor?  Does he plan to rescind Garcetti’s nomination?

MS. PSAKI:  I — there is no plans to rescind any nominations.  I would
point you to Mayor Garcetti’s office for any further comment.

Go ahead.

Q    Jen, a question on Africa —

MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Jen.  About the virus, again.  Is the reluctance of the
President now — I mean, there seems to be increased caution, to put it
that way — the approach he is taking, compared to a lot of the others. 
Is there any link between that and perhaps having felt burned during the
summer when we had this “independence from the virus” —

MS. PSAKI:  Are you referring to masks?  Sorry.

Q    Yeah, and —

MS. PSAKI:  Oh, okay.

Q    So, I’m referring to the masks and the — his caution at kind of
moving on as, obviously, a growing number of people are doing.  Is this
in any way linked to him feeling a little burned by what happened during
the summer, when, you know, the Delta came pretty much as he was
inviting people for a barbecue here to celebrate independence?

MS. PSAKI:  He’s basing his decision or — on what the advice of our
health and medical experts continues to be, and the fact that they are
continuing to evaluate and look at the data and the science.  And that
is a commitment he made to the American people at the beginning.

We also recognize that while hospitalization rates are coming down,
there’s still high transmission rates throughout, basically, the entire
country.  And he is cognizant of that as well and the fact that we need
to look at the totality of that and make recommendations based on what
our science experts are conveying.

Q    Okay.  One on Nord Stream, if I might — a quick one. 

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.

Q    He said very clearly — he promises — literally promises — to stop
it — stop the Nord Stream if there’s an invasion — like a — like a
full-blown invasion. 

If there isn’t a full-blown invasion, which obviously is at least as
likely as there being one — and it could be, you know, a hundred
different things that could be happening over the next month, year, two
years — not to mention that Russia already occupies part of Ukraine and
so on — what’s the rationale for supporting Nord Stream at all?

MS. PSAKI:  We don’t support Nord Stream. 

Q    Okay.

MS. PSAKI:  We have been clear we oppose the Nord Stream 2 pipeline,
which is a Russian geopolitical project that undercuts the energy
security and national security of a significant part of the
Euro-Atlantic community.  That’s long been our position. 

It’s not online — the pipeline.  The German regulators have said it is
not currently on track to be approved until at least the latter half of
2022.

And we’ll continue to work with Germany, Ukraine, and other allies and
partners to implement the July 21st Joint Statement.

And again, if Russia invades Ukraine, Nord Stream 2 will not come
online.

Q    Jen, do you have any comment on the series of bomb threats that are
happening in D.C. schools right now?  D.C. police are reporting that
Dunbar, Theodore Roosevelt, Ron Brown High School, several others are
now under bomb threat and evacuating schools.  What do you say about
that, especially after yesterday?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have any new information on these threats.  I’m
happy to see if there’s a new updated comment we can get for all of you.

Of course, we are in touch with local school districts, as we have been
since yesterday, and our — and our Homeland Security experts will do
everything we can to ensure that schools have the resources they need. 
But I don’t have any new information on it.

Thanks, everyone.

Q    Jen, Jen — a question on Africa.  No question on Africa again. 
It’s been three months, Jen.

MS. PSAKI:  Thank you, everyone.

2:16 P.M. EST
