---
category: press-briefings
date: '2022-02-09'
modified_time: 2022-02-09 12:59:00-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/02/09/press-briefing-by-white-house-covid-19-response-team-and-public-health-officials-82/
published_time: 2022-02-09 13:00:00-05:00
title: "Press Briefing by White\_House COVID-\u206019 Response Team and Public Health\_\
  Officials"
---
 
Via Teleconference

11:06 A.M. EST

MR. ZIENTS:  Good morning, and thanks for joining us.  Today, we’ll
start with an update from Dr. Walensky on the state of the pandemic and
CDC’s COVID-19 surveillance efforts.  
  
Dr. Walensky.  
  
DR. WALENSKY:  Good morning.  Thanks, Jeff.  I’d like to start by
walking you through today’s data.   
  
The current seven-day daily average of cases is about 247,300 cases per
day, a decrease of about 44 percent over the previous week.   
  
The seven-day average of hospital admissions is about 13,000 per day, a
decrease of about 25 percent over the previous period.  
  
And the seven-day average of daily deaths are at about 2,400 a day,
which is an increase of about 3 percent over the prior week.   
  
This week, we reached a tragic new mark of 900,000 deaths in this
country from COVID-19.   
  
Each week, I share with you the burden of disease in the United States,
including case counts, hospital admissions, and the number of deaths. 
Much of the data I readily share is because we have made huge strides in
our ability to effectively monitor this virus, and new tools allow us to
prepare and react to an evolving virus and inform response measures in
near real time.   
  
Today, I’d like to walk you through just a few of the layers of
surveillance we have in place, some that we have been expanding and
developing over the past two years and others that are bedrocks of our
public health work.   
  
Let’s start at the local community level where our biggest question is:
Can we quickly identify spikes in cases?  As people with COVID-19 shed
the virus, testing in wastewater or our sewage systems can help us
monitor COVID-19 in communities and provide an early warning of
increased COVID-19 cases to help communities prepare.   
  
Last week, CDC publicly released national wastewater surveillance data,
tracking more than 400 testing sites across the country in 212
communities, which we will double to more than 800 testing sites in the
next four weeks.   
  
On this map, you can see the testing sites that we monitor and trends in
the levels of the virus.  Communities in blue have decreasing levels of
virus, while communities in red and orange have increasing levels.   
  
This is a powerful tool that, when paired with traditional public health
surveillance, can help us identify where the disease is spreading and
how best to distribute resources.   
  
We’ve also made significant progress in syndromic surveillance, defined
by the ability to identify symptoms and cases that are suggestive of
COVID-19 disease.  Through syndromic surveillance, we can answer
questions about disease severity and patient populations with the
highest burdens of disease — crucial information to inform guidance and
prevention measures.   
  
More than 6,000 healthcare facilities across the country, representing
over 70 percent of emergency departments, contribute data to our
syndromic surveillance and help us understand where and how the virus is
having an impact.   
  
In addition to monitoring where the virus is and how disease presents in
the community, our genomic surveillance can quickly identify variants so
that we can understand their impact.  Each week, CDC analyzes genomic
sequences from all 50 states and uses these sequences to understand the
spread of variants across the country.   
  
On this slide, you can see the projections of variant proportions for
the last 14 weeks.  Omicron, shown in pink and purple, now represents
nearly 100 percent of viruses circulating in the United States.   
  
Our cohort studies and state-level surveillance data provide detailed
and regular reports of how our vaccines are working in the real world
among diverse populations, giving us faster and better data to know that
our vaccines are working against new and emerging variants.   
  
You’ve heard me discuss many of these platforms before, like our
hospital surveillance through CDC’s COVID-NET and IVY; our collaboration
with seven integrated healthcare and public health research centers
through VISION; surveillance of infection is essential in frontline
workers in HEROES-RECOVER; and our nationwide surveillance of vaccine
effectiveness in children and young adults in overcoming COVID-19.   
  
Taken together, these studies provide us an in-depth and comprehensive
understanding of how vaccines are working with participations in sites
nationwide.   
  
And importantly, COVID-19 vaccines are being administered under the most
intensive vaccine safety monitoring effort in the United States’
history.   
  
Our nationwide vaccine safety networks — such as V-safe, which provides
personalized and confidential health check-ins via text message — and
other systems — such as VAERS, the Clinical Immunization Safety project,
and the Vaccine Safety Datalink — empower us with the data of any rare
side effects or reactions after vaccination or boosting.  
  
This is a huge amount of data.  CDC — along with our partners across
government; state and local jurisdictions; academia; and healthcare —
has cast a wide and comprehensive net over the country to follow the
virus and its impacts in real time.   
  
And we will continue these data as our guiding — using these data as our
guiding source as we look to what comes next.  
  
I know there will come a time when we move from a phase of crisis to a
point where COVID-19 is not disrupting our daily lives.  And as we all
look forward to this next step, I want to instill in everyone that
moving forward from this pandemic will be a process that’s led by our
surveillance and our data.   
  
I’m confident that CDC and our public health partners are well
positioned to lead the way.   
  
Thank you.  And now, with that, I will turn things back over to you,
Jeff.   
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Thanks, Dr. Walensky.   
  
Now, let’s move to booster shots.  We know that there are a number of
different ways to view progress on boosters, depending on which data set
you’re looking at.  
  
For example, some people assess boosters as a proportion of all adults
who are fully vaccinated, while others look at the total U.S. adult
population, even though not every adult is eligible for a booster shot
yet.  
  
So, before I turn to Dr. Fauci on the effectiveness of booster shots, I
want to review how we assess the available data and use the best
available data to measure the progress we’re making on getting people
booster shots.  
  
CDC data aggregated from state health departments shows that more than
90 million booster shots have been administered.  We know that that is
likely undercounted as some people reported their booster as a first
shot and others forgot their vaccination card altogether.  
  
States have been matching data and have encountered some challenges
across different channels, which has led to delayed reporting for
booster shots in many states.  
  
CDC is working with states to address these issues to improve the
data.  
  
At the same time, CDC conducts a weekly survey, which is a nationally
representative survey of over 16,000 adults.  Looking at the CDC survey
results, you get a more up-to-date picture of the progress we are making
on boosters.  
  
Based on the latest CDC survey, we estimate over two thirds  of all
eligible adults and over 80 percent of all eligible seniors — those most
at risk  and most vulnerable — have received a booster shot.  
  
CDC’s survey results are consistent with the Kaiser Family Foundation
survey which shows 70 percent of eligible adults report they’ve gotten a
booster.  
  
So, we have a strong foundation to build on, with most eligible adults
boosted.  
  
In fact, we estimate at least two out of three adult — eligible adults
in the U.S. are now boosted — two out of three eligible adult Americans
with a booster shot.  
  
And across the last two months, we’ve made important strides on equity,
with the majority of booster shots going to people of color, in a very
improvement from the prior two months.  
  
The significant progress we made on boosters is one of the reasons why
we were able to confront Omicron with fewer disruptions to schools and
businesses than in prior surges.  And we clearly need to keep driving
this progress.  
  
So , our message is clear: All eligible individuals should get their
booster shot right away.  Booster shots are free.  They’re available at
90,000 convenient locations across the country and, as Dr. Fauci will
discuss, critical to getting people the highest level of protection.  
  
With that, over to you, Dr. Fauci.  
  
DR. FAUCI:  Thank you very much, Jeff.  What I’m going to do now over
the next couple of minutes is to just build on what Jeff said and talk
to you, based on real data, why it is so critically important to get
booster shots.  
  
I’m going to talk about laboratory data, clinical trial data, and
real-world data.  
  
Next slide.  
  
So there are multiple — and I can’t show them all — in vitro studies
that show that COVID-19 vaccine booster doses markedly increase the
neutralization of variants, including what we’re dealing with currently,
namely Omicron.  
  
Next slide.  
  
This is the slide that shows the genomic mean titer of antibody, namely
the proteins that neutralize the virus.  If you look at the far
left-hand side of the slide, seven months after people receive a second
dose and before the booster, look how low the response is to Omicron,
which is the bar that has the red circles.  It’s 23.  
  
One month after the booster, it goes way up into the highly protective
zone of 850.  And even six months after the booster, it is still at a
high level of 136 — way above what it was seven months after the second
dose.  So, that’s representative laboratory data.  
  
Next slide.  
  
Now, a randomized controlled clinical trial showed the dramatic impact
of the booster dose in preventing symptomatic disease.  And the data are
really striking.  I’ll show you one clip of that on the next slide.  
  
As you can see in red are individuals who’ve gotten two doses — it says
placebo, but it’s two doses — without the booster.  And this is a 
Pfizer study, but it really holds true with other products like
Moderna.  
  
If you look at the result in blue of the cumulative incidence of
COVID-19 following a booster shot, the difference is dramatic.  
  
Next slide.  
  
Now we’ll move to real-world effectiveness studies showing that booster
doses reconstitute the waning protection, especially against severe
disease, hospitalization, and deaths.  
  
So, next slide.  
  
So, here, we look at individuals less than six months after the second
dose.  And on the  far left, you see when you’re dealing with Delta,
it’s 90; when you’re dealing with Omicron, it’s 81.  But more than six
months after the second dose, it wanes with Omicron to 57, holding up a
bit better with Delta.  
  
But after the third dose, you get protection at 90 percent with Omicron,
which  is even better than after six months after the second dose. 
Again, another example of the critical importance of boosting.  
  
Next slide.  
  
Here is another way of looking at it.  When you look at symptomatic
disease and hospitalizations, again, when you’re dealing with Omicron,
on the far left, the protection against symptomatic disease is quite low
at week 25, following two doses.  If you look at the boost, it goes up
substantially to 40 percent.   
  
But the critical data are on the right-hand part of the slide.  If you
look at hospitalizations and look at two doses of the Pfizer BioNTech
either at 2 to 4 weeks or 10 to 14 weeks, it’s still way up there at 75
percent.  
  
Next slide.   
  
And again, if you look at CDC data, which shows a dramatic reduction in
the risk of hospitalization and death for people who’ve received a
booster dose, we can see that on the next slide.   
  
And this is a summary of data: If you compare a fully vaccinated person
with one who has received a booster shot, and look at the monthly rate
of COVID-19 associated hospitalizations during a timeframe of December
2021, there was a 45-fold higher likelihood of an unvaccinated person in
the age range of 50 to 64, and a 51-fold higher likelihood of an
unvaccinated age 65 and older of being hospitalized when you compare it
to an individual with a boost.  
  
Next slide.  
  
When you look at death rate, again, the data are really rather
striking.  If you look at unvaccinated in red and look at the death rate
per 100,000 compared to a fully vaccinated person who’s not been boosted
— showing you why vaccinations even without boosts are important.  But
look what the booster does: It brings back the death rate per 100,000 to
a remarkably low level.   
  
So, we can only come to one conclusion on the last slide: that  COVID-19
vaccines, booster shots can keep you out of the hospital and certainly
can save your life.  
  
Back to you, Jeff.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Thanks, Dr. Fauci.   
  
Before we open for questions, I want to highlight how far we’ve come in
our fight against COVID.  
  
Last week, we learned the U.S. economy created 6.6 million new jobs in
the President’s first year in office.  That’s the best 12 months of job
creation in our nation’s history.   
  
Notably, this includes 467,000 jobs created in January and 510,000 in
December.  Those were the two months when we were at the height of the
Omicron surge.  
  
The first time we faced a similar threat from COVID back in April of
2020, we lost around 20 million jobs in one month.  Even as we face the
extremely transmissible Omicron variant and saw a record number of
cases, businesses stayed open and our economy kept growing stronger. 
That’s because we’re in such a different position today in terms of our
ability to manage this virus.   
  
We have over 210 million people fully vaccinated and vaccines freely
available.  And we have more tools like boosters, treatments, masks, and
tests that give us additional layers of protection.   
  
Today, fully vaccinated and boosted Americans are able to keep living
their lives safely, even when this virus throws us a curveball.  And
we’re able to keep our kids in school and keep our businesses open.  
  
As the President said on Friday, January was a tough month for this
country, but we got through it together.  Over the past three weeks,
daily cases are down over 65 percent; hospital admissions are down 40
percent.  
  
The President’s COVID plan is working.  We’re moving toward a time when
COVID won’t disrupt our daily lives, a time when COVID won’t be a
constant crisis but rather will be something we can protect against and
treat.   
  
With that, let’s open it up for a few questions.  Over to you, Kevin.  
  
MODERATOR:  Thanks, Jeff.  We’ve got a lot of questions today.  So,
let’s actually try to keep it to one question.   
  
First, let’s go to Zeke Miller at the AP.   
  
Q    Thanks.  In the last week, we’ve seen a number of Democratic-led —
-run states move back towards normalcy, removing mask mandates.  New
York is expected to follow today.  We saw Connecticut, other states lift
mask requirements in schools.   
  
You’ve talked a lot about leading — the President trying to lead the
nation out of the pandemic, but right now, the federal response seems to
be following what a lot of states are doing.  Is the White House
planning for emerging — bringing the country out of the pandemic?  And
what would that plan look like?  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Well, thanks for the question.  So while cases and
hospitalizations, as Dr. Walensky showed, are trending downward, we do
remain focused on fighting the Omicron surge.  So, that’s priority
number one.   
  
The President, as I just mentioned, has been clear that we’re moving
toward a time when COVID won’t disrupt our daily lives, a time when
COVID won’t be a constant crisis so we’re no longer fearing lockdowns
and shutdowns, but getting back to safely doing what we all love.  In
doing so, we will rely on the powerful set of tools that have been
built: the vaccines, the booster shots, treatments, and testing.   
  
For the last several weeks, we’ve been working closely with Secretary
Becerra, our team of doctors.  And the White House COVID Response Team
under the President’s leadership is reaching out to governors and
outside public health experts and doctors and local public health
officials on steps we should be taking to keep the country moving
forward.   
  
We know that in different areas of the country, cases have fallen more
significantly, and this will lead to different approaches and different
timing.  And we will continue to coordinate closely with state and local
leaders.   
  
Next question.  
  
MODERATOR:  Let’s go to Sabrina Siddiqui at the Wall Street Journal.  
  
Q    Thank you so much.  This is a question for Dr.  Walensky.  I just
want to follow up on current guidance around masks, because, you know,
the last CDC recommendation was that there should be indoor masking in
public settings where transmission is substantial or high.  According to
CDC data, that appears to still be the entire country — the case in the
entire country where community transmission is high.  So is that still
the recommendation?  
  
And furthermore, you’ve also recommended that there be universal masking
in schools.  Is that — is that a recommendation you stand by as states
are also moving to drop — or to lift mask mandates for teachers and
students in schools?  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Dr. Walensky?  
  
DR. WALENSKY:  Yeah, thank you, Sabrina.  So we certainly understand the
need and desire to be flexible, and we want to ensure the public health
guidance that we’re providing meets the moment that we’re in.  
  
As we’ve discussed and as you noted, cases and hospitalizations are
falling.  This is, of course, encouraging.  And that leads us, of
course, to have us look at all of our guidance based on the latest data
and the science and what we know about the virus.   
  
We also look, of course, as Jeff mentioned, to our hospitalizations,
looking at the hospitals as a barometer of how they’re doing locally so
those decisions can be made at the local level.   
  
And, of course, we at CDC will keep the public informed about our
guidance, and we will clearly communicate those recommendations to the
public if and when they are updated.  
  
Thank you.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Next question, please.  
  
MODERATOR:  We’ll go to Cheyenne Haslett at ABC News.  
  
Q    Hi, thank you.  Dr. Walensky, you mentioned the specific benchmarks
on hospitalization that you’re looking to for when it will be a good
time to change some of this guidance for unmasking, both in schools and
generally in public for adults.  What exactly will that benchmark be?  
  
DR. WALENSKY:  Right.  So, Cheyenne, we — you know, in part of our
review of the surveillance, we look at wastewater, we look at cases, we
look at hospitalizations — we’ve been reporting hospitalizations — we
look at deaths.  And, of course, those decisions are made at the local
level.  
  
But at this time, we continue to recommend masking in areas of high and
substantial transmission — that’s much of the country right now — in
public indoor settings.  And so we’re, of course, taking a close look at
this in real-time, and we’re evaluating rates of transmission as well as
rates of severe outcomes as we look at updating and reviewing our
guidance.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Next question, please.  
  
MODERATOR:  We’ll go to Victoria Knight at Kaiser Health News.  
  
Q    Thanks so much for taking my question.  So, I’ve been talking to
people who are immunocompromised, people who are disabled, living with
chronic illnesses, and they’re all telling me that they’re feeling like
they are being left behind, especially in light of a lot of states
lifting their mask mandates, and they’re feeling like their needs are
not being considered moving forward after Omicron.  So what is your
message to them?  What do you expect them to do?  Do they need to just
stay in their houses?  What is your message to people like that?  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Dr. Walensky?  
  
DR. WALENSKY:  Right.  So this is among the considerations that we take
into account as we work on all of our recommendations.  We, of course,
have to make recommendations that are, you know, relevant for New York
City and rural Montana.  We have to make recommendations that are met —
relevant for the public, but also for the public who is
immunocompromised and disabled.  And so, that — all of those
considerations are taken into account as we work on our guidance.   
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Next question, please.   
  
MODERATOR:  Let’s go to Kaitlan Collins at CNN.  
  
Q    Thanks so much.  Dr. Walensky, you just said that you do continue
to recommend masking indoors in areas of high transmission, and that you
said that that’s most of the country right now.  So are you seeing any
data that supports the decisions of these governors to drop mandates? 
And when it comes to masking, should people be listening to the CDC or
listening to their governors?  
  
DR. WALENSKY:  Kaitlan, we’ve always said that these decisions are going
to have to be made at the local level and that policies at the local
level will look at local cases, they’ll look at how local hospitals are
doing, they’ll look at local vaccination rates.  
  
And they, as I understand it, in many of these decisions are using a
phased approach.  Not all of these decisions are being made to stop
things tomorrow, but they’re looking at a phased approach.  
  
And so, what I would say is: Again, they have to be done at the local
level.  But I’m really encouraged that cases are continuing to drop
dramatically, hospitalizations are continuing to drop dramatically as
people are making these decisions and as we are working on our
guidance.  
  
So I’m encouraged to see those trends.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Next question, please.  
  
MODERATOR:  Let’s go to Sheryl Stolberg at the New York Times.   
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Sheryl?  
  
Q    Can you hear me?  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Now we can, yes.  
  
Q    Sorry about that.  Thank you for taking this question — it’s for
Dr. Walensky.  Dr. Walensky, the states have been asking explicitly,
governors have been asking explicitly for guidance from the CDC on
mask-wearing and how to relax mitigation numbers.   
  
Is the CDC prepared to provide guidance to the governors?  And when will
it do so?  
  
DR. WALENSKY:  Sheryl, thank you.  And I’ll simply go back to: Yes, we
are prepared.  We are working on that guidance.  We are working on, you
know, following the trends for the moment.   
  
What I will say though is, you know, our hospitalizations are still
high, our death rates are still high.  So, as we work towards that and
as we are encouraged by the current trends, we are not there yet.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Next question, please.  
  
MODERATOR:  Let’s go to Kristen Welker at NBC.  
  
Q    Hi, everyone.  Thanks so much for doing this call.  I know that you
have spoken in the past about the fact that we could be moving closer to
having a vaccine for children under the age of five.  And obviously,
when you look at some of the polling, it’s potentially concerning: Just
3 in 10 parents of children under the age of five say that they’ll get
their child vaccinated.   
  
Can you update us on your latest efforts once those vaccines are
approved to reach those parents who are still skeptical?  What should
they know?  And why should they have confidence in the vaccines once
they are approved?  What will your messaging be, and what are your
latest outreach efforts?  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Well, Dr. Fauci, maybe you can do a minute or two on the
under-five vaccine status.  And then I’ll talk some about both the
operational issues and the — answering questions and building confidence
work.   
  
Dr. Fauci.  
  
DR. FAUCI:  Yeah.  Thank you, Jeff.   
  
Yes, the data from the trials on children from 6 months to 24 months, as
well as those from 21 months to — up to the end of 4 years have been
conducted by the pharmaceutical company, in this case, Pfizer.   
  
The data have been submitted to the FDA, and the FDA VRBPAC, or their
advisory committee, will be meeting on February 15th.  I think people
need to be assured that any decision that the FDA makes, as is
historically always the case with them, will really be based on the
scientific data of both safety and efficacy.  And we can assure you that
the decision will be based on that.   
  
And if, in fact, approved, it will be approved on the fact that the data
show clear efficacy and safety.   
  
So, I’ll go back to you, Jeff, for the rest of that question.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Thanks, Dr. Fauci.  So, operationally, we will be ready
once FDA and CDC make their recommendations.  As we talked about last
week, this vaccine is specifically formulated for these young kids.  So,
we’re launching a new program specially for kids under five.  
  
The planning process is well underway.  CDC is working with states to
help them prepare.  We’ve secured enough vaccine supply for all kids in
this age group — all 18 million.  We have enough needles, syringes, and
kits.  And these are all specially formulated, are made for this age
group to send alongside the vaccine.  
  
And we’re working closely, you know, with pediatricians and family
doctors and children’s hospitals and pharmacies to make sure the vaccine
is available at thousands of locations across the country — locations
that parents know and trust.   
  
We can start packing and shipping the vaccine once FDA makes its
decision.  So, we will be prepared for those parents that are eager to
get their kids vaccinated.   
  
I think the second part of your question is — there are parents that are
— that do have questions, and we need to answer those questions.  And
we’ve learned through our efforts across the last year that the best
messengers are local messengers — local community groups and leaders,
doctors, and other health practitioners.   
  
So, we are working closely with HHS to line up that group and make sure
that they have the materials that they need, the training they need to
be able to answer the questions that parents have about getting their
kids vaccinated.   
  
Next question, please.  
  
MODERATOR:  Last question.  Let’s go to Josh Wingrove of Bloomberg.  
  
Q    Hi there.  Thank you very much.  Dr. Fauci, can you talk a little
bit more about what you think the data show now of the need for a shot
beyond the third dose, beyond a booster?  
  
As you know, boosters are being given as early as five months — we are
approaching five months now — some of the — first folks who got it.  
  
What do we know about how often or if further shots will be needed going
forward, and in particular, whether we might need specific types of
shots for any variant?  Thank you.  
  
DR. FAUCI:  Yeah.  Yeah, thank you for that question.  That’s obviously
an issue that have been followed very closely.  Because as I’ve said in
answer to questions on previous press conferences — similar questions —
is that you follow individuals for a period of time after the third dose
and you measure a number of phenomenon.  You measure laboratory
phenomenon, but you measure the real-world data on the efficacy in
preventing, for example, hospital visits, as well as hospitalizations.  
  
And I believe that you’re going to be hearing data about that as they —
data become available.  And that should not be within a very long period
of time.   
  
I think you should be appreciative of the fact that when you’re talking
about any decisions that will be made — and I’m not anticipating any of
that now — but that has to be put into the context of whom you’re
talking about.  
  
For example, there may be the need for yet again another boost — in this
case, a fourth-dose boost for an individual receiving the mRNA — that
could be based on age, as well as underlying conditions.   
  
So, I don’t think you’re going to be hearing, if you do, any kind of
recommendations that would be across the board for everyone.  It very
likely will take into account what subset of people have a diminished,
or not, protection against the important parameters such as
hospitalization.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Thank you, everybody.  We look forward to the next
briefing.   
  
11:37 A.M. EST

To view the COVID Press Briefing slides,
visit: <https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/02/COVID-Press-Briefing-2.9.22-clean.pdf>
