---
category: press-briefings
date: '2021-09-22'
modified_time: 2021-09-21 23:27:33-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/09/22/background-press-call-by-senior-administration-officials-previewing-the-global-summit-to-end-covid-19/
published_time: 2021-09-22 06:00:00-04:00
title: "Background Press Call by Senior Administration Officials Previewing the Global\
  \ Summit to End\_COVID-\u206019"
---
 
Via Teleconference

(September 21, 2021)

6:03 P.M. EDT

MODERATOR:  Good evening, everyone, and thanks for joining us today. 
Tonight’s call is going to be on background, attributed to “senior
administration officials.”  And contents are going to be embargoed until
6:00 a.m. Eastern Time tomorrow.

We have two speakers joining us today who will make opening comments,
and then we’re happy to take your questions.  I’ll turn it over to our
first speaker, \[senior administration official\], and then we’ll hear
from our second speaker, \[senior administration official\]. 

\[Senior administration official\], over to you to get started.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks.  And thanks for being with us
tonight.

Tomorrow, President Biden will bring world leaders and private and
non-profit sectors together for a summit on COVID-19.

In a moment, I’ll turn to \[senior administration official\] who’s going
to walk through the summit in greater detail.  But first, I wanted to
discuss an unprecedented global vacci- — our unprecedented global
vaccination effort and a major announcement the President will make
tomorrow that will drive additional progress.

So, since day one, President Biden has been clear that the only way to
defeat COVID-19 and protect the American people and grow the American
economy is to defeat the virus both here at home and around the world. 
That means vaccinating our own people and vaccinating people around the
world is not a choice, it is an imperative.  That’s why we have
mobilized a whole-of-government effort to do both.

So far, the United States has committed to donating over 600 million
COVID-19 vaccine doses to the world.  That includes 500 million Pfizer
doses that we purchased earlier this summer to donate to 100 countries
in need — the largest donation of COVID-19 vaccines by a single country
ever.

Overall, we have now shipped nearly 160 million of these doses to 100
countries around the world — from Peru to Pakistan, Sri Lanka to Sudan,
El Salvador to Ethiopia.

To put this into perspective, the United States has now delivered more
free doses than every other country in the world combined.  Millions
more get shipped each day, including today.  And importantly, our
donations come with zero strings attached.

So, tomorrow, President Biden will announce that the U.S. is purchasing
an additional 500 million Pfizer COVID-19 vaccines to donate to low- and
lower-middle income countries around the world.

These half a billion vaccines will be made here in the United States by
American workers.  They’ll start shipping out in January.  And that
means from January through September of next year, we will ship out 800
million vaccines to the world.

This new commitment will bring our total to over 1.1 billion vaccines
donated to the world.  The United States — let me repeat that: The
United States is donating 1.1 billion doses of COVID-19 vaccines to the
world, free of charge, no strings attached.

This is a huge commitment by the U.S.  In fact, for every one shot we
have administered in this country to date, we are now donating three
shots to other countries.  One shot here today; three shots committed
for the world.  No other country, or group of countries, have come close
to that.

Our global donations are made possible in part because of the aggressive
actions that the President took to accelerate manufacturing and
production lines in the United States and the work we have done with
U.S. manufacturers to vastly increase that vaccine supply for the rest
of the world.

We know that additional steps will be needed to help vaccinate the
world, and that’s exactly what we’re doing.  We’re working to further
leverage U.S. manufacturing and production capabilities.  We’re
investing in raw materials needed to make vaccines.  And we’re helping
fuel production at home and abroad.

Working with our partner nations, pharmaceutical companies, and other
manufacturers, we’re working to build vaccine manufacturing production
capacity and capabilities here and abroad.

You know, the President’s strategy from day one has been to take care of
Americans and to help vaccinate the world.  And that’s why even as we
mounted an unprecedented domestic vaccination program here, we purchased
500 million vaccine doses for the sole purpose of giving them to
others. 

And today, the — tomorrow, sorry — the President will be doubling that
commitment, purchasing 1 billion doses for others even as we continue to
vaccinate Americans and prepare for the potential booster shots here.

We’re proving that you can take care of your own while helping others as
well.  We can and we must do both.

This is a global pandemic, as we all know, and it will require a global
response.  And at tomorrow’s summit, you’ll hear from the President call
on global leaders to step up, act with urgency to stamp out the virus
everywhere.  It’s the right thing to do, and it’s also in all of our
interests.

And the U.S. will continue to lead the global vaccination effort, and we
will not stop until we get this job done.

Let me stop there and turn it over to \[senior administration official\]
who’s going to walk through some of the other summit details.

Thanks.  Over to you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks, \[senior administration
official\], and thanks everyone.  So, tomorrow, President Biden will
convene heads of state and leaders from international organizations, the
private sector, philanthropies, non-governmental organizations, and
other partners from around the world for the global COVID-19 Summit
focused on ending the pandemic and building back better.

This will be a virtual summit held on the margins of the U.N. General
Assembly.  The President will call on world leaders to elevate the
global level of ambition to end the COVID pandemic in 2022 and to build
back better health security to prevent and prepare for future pandemics.

As \[senior administration official\] said, tomorrow’s summit is about
the global level of ambition to end the pandemic, and everyone must do
their part everywhere.  We’re nearly 20 months into the pandemic, and
this moment really requires urgency to save lives.  This is a summit on
an issue that affects absolutely everyone on a daily basis, everywhere
on Earth.  And it’s a meeting to set the agenda.

Our goals for the summit are clear: We’re calling on world leaders and
all sectors to do more collectively, measurably, on three specific
areas.

First, we need to vaccinate the world.  And \[senior administration
official\] just spoke about the United States’ historic and huge
commitment in this area, and we need all countries to do as much as they
can.  This includes enhancing equitable access to vaccines and also
getting shots into arms.

Second, we need to save lives now by solving the global oxygen crisis,
making tests and therapeutics more available, and enhancing access to
personal protective equipment.

Third, we need to build back better, which means preparing for the next
pandemic by establishing a sustainable health security financing
mechanism and ensuring we have the political leadership we need for
emerging threats.

Running through all of these themes, we’ll be focusing on accountability
— accountability for achieving specific targets against each of these
goals.  We need to align around common goals and targets to hold
ourselves and the world accountable for collective action to end the
pandemic and, obviously, to prepare for the next. 

And as \[senior administration official\] outlined, the United States is
doing its part and stepping up again, but we cannot do this alone. 
Every country — every one — has to hold themselves accountable for
fulfilling commitments they’ve made and for surging resources to do
what’s required to end the pandemic, vaccinate the world, save lives
now, and build back better.

In the run-up to the event, we sent a list of targets across all of
these areas to participants for the summit, and we encouraged them to
consider embracing this vision.  And we included also a set of asks for
governments and private sector leaders to consider for this fall, which
will get us closer to ending this pandemic and building better capacity
around the world for the future.

Importantly, these are global targets.  And again, the United States
cannot and should not achieve them alone.  Everyone has to be
accountable.  The targets are deliberately ambitious — because we’re 18
months into the pandemic, and if now isn’t the moment to be bold, when
would we be?

These targets build on and were developed in concert with targets from
the Multilateral Leaders Taskforce on COVID-19, which is a group of the
WHO — the World Health Organization, the World Trade Organization, the
International Monetary Fund, and the World Bank.  Also, the access to
COVID-19 Tools Accelerator (ACT) A, G20 and G7 goals, and also goals set
by members of various expert panels.

This also includes an ambitious target, which will require all countries
to step up so that every country, including low-income and
low-middle-income countries, can achieve 70 percent vaccinations before
UNGA of next year.

So what exactly is going to happen tomorrow?  It’s a virtual summit that
will last for almost four hours with countries from all over the world. 
And we have over 100 countries, over 100 organizations from across
international institutions, the private sector, and non-governmental
organizations.  Of those, over 30 will speak live, and approximately 10
will be shown during intermissions in taped remarks. 

The event will be a mixture of heads of state and non- governmental
leaders.  And we ask participants who aren’t speaking to send videos;
we’ll be playing some of those during the summit and also publishing
them after the event for all to see.

So far, what we’re seeing and receiving is a lot of energy, a lot of
welcome and embracing for this event, its goals, and U.S. leadership and
President Biden’s leadership to host it.

There’s going to be four sessions. 

The first session is focused on “Calling the World to Account” and
vaccinating the world.  That session will be chaired by the President,
and it will be moderated by U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations, Linda
Thomas-Greenfield.  It will include the U.N. Secretary-General; the
World Health Organization Director-General Dr. Tedros; at least six
other heads of state; and other international organizations.

The second session, “Save Lives Now,” will be chaired by
USAIDAdministrator Ambassador Samantha Power, and it will be moderated
by Rockefeller Foundation President and former USAID Administrator Raj
Shah.  That event will focus on representatives and world leaders from
foundations, non-governmental organizations to discuss challenges and
solutions to persistent issues like oxygen — the oxygen crisis, access
to testing and therapeutics, and building stronger health systems. 

Our third session, “Build Back Better,” will be chaired by Vice
President Harris and it will be moderated by Department of Health and
Human Services Global Affairs and Global COVID Lead Loyce Pace.  That
effort — that session will include world leaders, philanthropists, and
public health experts who will be speaking about health security
financing, health security leadership, and how to build the capacity we
need for the future. 

Our closing session will feature Secretary of State Blinken and will be
moderated by State Department Coordinator for the Global COVID Response
Gayle Smith.  That session will call leaders to action from across
sectors and challenge them to take more actions this fall, with the U.S.
in a leadership role. 

And so, finally, what comes next: The summit is meant to be a deliberate
beginning to the end of the pandemic, and it will launch a lot of work. 

Specifically, we plan to take a leading role in tracking collective
progress, working with governments, working with the U.N. and the
Secretary-General’s team, working with the Multilateral Leaders Task
Force that I mentioned earlier, the ACT Accelerator, COVAX, the private
sector, and the philanthropic community. 

We plan to convene a series of meetings throughout the fall and
reconvene leaders by the first quarter of next year.  And we look
forward to this event galvanizing more urgency to end the pandemic,
vaccinate the world, save lives now, build back better.  And the United
States intends to continue to lead. 

Thanks very much. 

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  We’re now happy to take some questions.

Q    Hi, thanks very much.  Can you give us a sense of the cost of the
additional 500 million vaccines that you’re purchasing?  And can you
give us more details on which foreign leaders will be participating
tomorrow?  Thank you. 

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Good.  I can take the fir- — this is
\[senior administration official\].  I can take the first and then,
\[senior administration official\], I’ll defer you on the second.

We have agreed to — as we did with the first 500 million — a
not-for-profit price, and we’ll ensure that that happens in the
contracting process that will take place after this.  So the contracts
will be finalized as quickly as possible, but it will be at a
not-for-profit price.

\[Senior administration official\], you want to talk for — talk about
the foreign leaders?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, no, I’m happy to.  So, what I’ll
say today — you’ll have to watch it tomorrow — is that we have — we have
world leaders from all over the world. 

We prioritized geographic diversity.  And I think you’ll see world
leaders from all walks of life and around the world sharing their
experiences with COVID-19 but, more importantly, sharing what they —
what they think that they and the world need to do to end the pandemic. 

Q    Thank you all for doing this.  First, if there’s any way to move
this on the record, that’d be really helpful for a bunch of us. 

Second, could you outline what the President’s personal involvement with
the summit will be?  Should we expect remarks from him?

And then, third, would it be possible for you to release publicly the
specific asks of the various countries and partners?  Is that part of
the plan?

And then, are you expecting other nations to make similar vaccine
donation commitments in association with the summit tomorrow?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, I’m happy to take those. 

So, first, the President will chair the opening session and he will make
remarks associated with that. 

Second, we will be releasing the targets after the events, including the
asks.  And just, very importantly, these asks are global and they’re
meant to apply not only to governments but also to international
institutions and the private sector.

You asked a third question; it just slipped my mind.  Could you repeat
it?  I’m sorry. 

Oh, on the record.  Sorry.  That’s — that one’s not for me to answer. 
Over. 

MODERATOR:  Apologies.  We will need to keep this one on background, but
I appreciate the ask nonetheless. 

Q    Hi, thank you for this.  In terms of the (inaudible) that will come
after the summit to ensure accountability, how is that going to work? 
Because from the materials that were released before, it looked like it
might be a, sort of, like, doubling up to what the ACT Accelerator is
doing.  So if you can just talk a bit about, like, how exactly, you
know, the aftermath of the summit will work? 

And will the U.S. continue to take the lead on that?  Or will you have a
structure of, you know, international organizations and NGOs, and so on,
to be kind of, like, making sure that each of these pillars are reaching
their target?

And also, one thing that has come up a lot over the last week was the IP
waiver that I know President Biden has said support — he supports for
vaccines.  Is this expected to come up at all during the Summit
tomorrow?  And is the U.S. expected to push other countries to back it —
the World Trade Organization?

And just a quick question because I missed the beginning of the call:
Will the 500 million vaccine doses that the President is announcing
tomorrow be also Pfizer?  Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, I can take the last one and,
\[senior administration official\], maybe you can take the first two.

They will.  They’ll all be Pfizer — 500 million Pfizer.

All right, \[senior administration official\], do you want to take the
first two?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Sure.  Yep, and I’ll take them in
reverse order. 

So, the United States and the President continue to support a COVID-19
TRIPS waiver.  As we said before, these are extraordinary times; they
call for extraordinary measures.  And we do support a waiver of
intellectual property protections.  And we’re working in the WTO on that
effort and we continue to.

The second is about accountability.  And we intend, this fall, to work
very closely with not only the ACT Accelerator, which you mentioned, but
also the Multilateral Task Force that already exists. 

And you’re quite right: These organizations do exist as multilateral
partnerships towards goals of ending the pandemic.  But we are working
with them.  They do welcome U.S. leadership to help galvanize and to be
able to help track progress. 

And so, I think what you’re going to see coming out of the summit is an
invigorated effort with those groups, with us working very closely with
them, and us also asking for reporting of progress to come out not only
of governments but also international financial institutions,
development banks, foundations, and advocates to report on progress, and
for us to be playing a role in being able to roll up that progress and
help measure it.

And to make that happen, we’ll have a series of discussions which will
serve not only as catalysts for solving some of the big problems that
have been really hard to solve, like oxygen availability, access to
tests, in addition to in-country vaccination and shots in arms, which
have been just persistent challenges throughout the pandemic.  But also,
they’ll serve as forcing functions to be able to just consistently make
sure that we’re able to ask and for others to step up and do as much as
they possibly can to do more.

Thanks. 

Q    Thank you.  Sorry if I missed this.  One of the draft suggestions
was a target of 70 percent vaccination by the end of September.  Does
the President plan to call for that? 

And can you speak to why that particular date was hit and whether you
think the capacity exists to hit that date?  Thank you. 

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, I’m happy to take this one.  So
that is definitely a target that will be mentioned tomorrow.  It’s a
target that has been discussed in the international community, including
by other — by the World Health Organization, for example.  And so, it’s
a target that we embrace and that we urge all countries to work to hit,
and we think it’s an important target.  It’s an ambitious target, but a
very important target. 

And we chose UNGA of 2022 because this is the U.N. General Assembly and
we think that, you know, in a year, we should be in a much, much better
position.  But that doesn’t mean that we don’t start now; it means we
push to do as much as we possibly can in 2021 to expedite delivery, to
do — for other countries to do what we’ve just done — what \[senior
administration official\] just outlined, which is historic: to work with
our own companies to do more, to do more ourselves, and to be able to
translate some of the pledges that are already out there for donating
doses from their own supply — which we continually have been doing and
which \[senior administration official\] outlined — but to have more of
that happen so that we can actually fill some of those gaps earlier — as
early as possible. 

Thanks. 

Q    Yeah, thank you for taking my question.  With less than 4 percent
of people currently vaccinated in Africa, will the President announce
any allocation for Africa from the additional vaccine doses being
purchased? 

And will the new doses be shared through COVAX?  Will all the new doses
be shared through COVAX?  Thank you.  The 500 million doses being
purchased.  Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thank you for your question.  I think I
can take that.

We will share through COVAX, as we did with the first 500 million.  We
won’t be announcing specific locations for those to go.  Those will be
worked out as they go along with COVAX and with our partners in Africa. 
So, those locations of the exact doses will come closer to the time of
delivery of each of the monthly allotments.

MODERATOR:  All right, that concludes our call.  Friendly reminder that
we are on background today, attributed to “senior administration
officials,” and contents of this call are embargoed until 6:00 a.m.
tomorrow.  Thanks all for joining. 

6:24 P.M. EDT
