---
category: press-briefings
date: '2021-09-24'
modified_time: 2021-09-24 18:28:41-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/09/24/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-and-secretary-of-homeland-security-alejandro-mayorkas-september-24-2021/
published_time: 2021-09-24 18:45:00-04:00
title: Press Briefing by Press Secretary Jen Psaki and Secretary of Homeland Security
  Alejandro Mayorkas, September 24, 2021
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

2:34 P.M. EDT  
  
MS. PSAKI: Hi, everyone. Okay. We’re thrilled to have Secretary Mayorkas
join us here today. He’s going to be making some brief comments
providing you an update, and we’ll take as many questions as we can. I
would just be mindful of your colleagues so we can get around to as many
as possible.  
  
With that, I’ll turn it over to Secretary Mayorkas.  
  
SECRETARY MAYORKAS: Thank you very much. And good afternoon, everyone.
Less than one week ago, there were approximately 15,000 migrants in Del
Rio, Texas, the great majority of whom were Haitian nationals. This was
the result of an unprecedented movement of a very large number of people
traveling to a single point of the border within a matter of a few
days.  
  
We responded with a surge of resources to address the humanitarian needs
of the individuals, many of whom include families with young children.  
  
We also applied our months-long standard operating procedures at the
border, which we have been applying to all migrants encountered at the
border during this very challenging time of the COVID-19 pandemic.  
  
As of this morning, there are no longer any migrants in the camp
underneath the Del Rio International Bridge. I will walk through what we
have done, how we have done it; explain the processes; and provide data
that you have requested.  
  
But first, I want to make one important point. In the midst of meeting
these challenges, we — our entire nation — saw horrifying images that do
not reflect who we are, who we aspire to be, or the integrity and values
of our truly heroic personnel in the Department of Homeland Security.  
  
The investigation into what occurred has not yet concluded. We know that
those images painfully conjured up the worst elements of our nation’s
ongoing battle against systemic racism.  
  
We have been swift and thorough in our response. First, we immediately
contacted the Office of Inspector General and launched an investigation
into the events that were captured in the disturbing images of horse
patrol units.  
  
We ceased the use of horse patrol units in the area. The agents involved
in these incidents have been assigned to administrative duties and are
not interacting with migrants while the investigation is ongoing.  
  
I directed the personnel from the CBP Office of Professional
Responsibility to be on site in Del Rio full-time to ensure adherence to
the policies, training, and values of our department. The highest levels
of the CBP Office of Professional Responsibility are leading the
investigation, which will conclude quickly. The results of the
investigation I will make public.  
  
The actions that are taken as a — are as a result of the — what we have
seen in those images. The investigation will be compelled — the results
will be compelled by the facts that are adduced and nothing less.  
  
Let me be clear: The department does not tolerate any mistreatment of
any migrant and will not tolerate any violation of its values,
principles, and ethics.  
  
Now I would like to turn to our operational response. DHS led the
mobilization of a whole-of-government response to address the
challenging situation in Del Rio. DHS immediately worked to address the
acute humanitarian needs of the migrants themselves by partnering with
federal and nongovernmental agencies and entities. We rapidly deployed
basic services like drinking water, food, clothing, and portable
toilets.  
  
I am grateful to the Red Cross for providing more than 17,000 hygiene
kits and the World Central Kitchen for contributing more than 14,000
meals per day to supplement other food programs.  
  
We surged medical resources and capacity, including over 150 medical
professionals, to provide health services to ensure the safety of the
migrants, employees, and the surrounding community. We provided personal
protective equipment, including facemasks. We erected four
climate-controlled tents to support housing for vulnerable
populations.  
  
Let me go through our operational response. Simultaneously with the
humanitarian response, we in the Department of Homeland Security
implemented a series of operational measures to process migrants
consistent with existing laws, policies, and procedures. In particular,
CBP — Customs and Border Protection — surged 600 agents, officers, and
DHS volunteer force personnel to the Del Rio sector to provide
operational support.  
  
We also — DHS officers and agents conducted 24-hour patrols for general
safety, as well as to identify anyone who might be in medical
distress.  
  
ICE, the U.S. Coast Guard, the Department of Defense, and the Department
of Justice provided transportation support to transfer migrants out of
Del Rio to other Border Patrol sectors with capacity.  
  
Working with the Department of State in Haiti, DHS increased the number
of removal flights to Haiti commensurate with the country’s capacity to
receive.  
  
Importantly, USAID has established a $5.5 million program to provide
on-the-ground assistance to repatriated Haitian migrants.  
  
Nearly 30,000 migrants have been encountered at Del Rio since September
9th, with the highest number at one time reaching approximately
15,000.  
  
Today, we have no migrants remaining in the camp under the International
Bridge.  
  
Migrants continue to be expelled under the CDC’s Title 42 authority.
Title 42 is a public health authority and not an immigration policy. And
it is important to note that Title 42 is applicable and has been
applicable to all irregular migration during this pandemic. It is not
specific to Haitian nationals or the current situation.  
  
Some more data: To date, DHS has conducted 17 expulsion flights to Haiti
with approximately 2,000 individuals. Those who are not expelled under
Title 42 are placed in immigration removal proceedings.  
  
Let me take a step back and explain the process. There are two
exceptions to the applicability of Title 42, the public health
authority. Number one is if an individual has an acute vulnerability,
such as an urgent medical care. And two, if, in fact, our operational
capacity is such that we are not able to execute the Title 42 authority
that rests with the Centers for Disease Control.  
  
I should also say that there is a Convention Against Torture exception
if someone claims torture, which is a distinct legal standard.  
  
Individuals, as I mentioned, with acute vulnerability can be accepted
from the Title 42 application. Approximately 12,400 individuals will
have their cases heard by an immigration judge to make a determination
on whether they will be removed or permitted to remain in the United
States. That is a piece of data that has been requested of us.  
  
If someone is not subject to Title 42 expulsion for the three reasons
that I explained — acute vulnerability, operational capacity
limitations, or a Convention Against Torture exception — then the
individual is placed in immigration proceedings. That means they go
before an immigration judge in an immigration court.  
  
If they make a claim that they have a basis under law to remain in the
United States, then the judge will hear and adjudicate that claim. If
the judge determines that the claim is not valid, the individual will be
removed.  
  
An estimated 8,000 migrants have decided to return to Mexico
voluntarily, and just over 5,000 are being processed by DHS to determine
whether they will be expelled or placed in immigration removal
proceedings under Title 8.  
  
We have previously articulated publicly, we’ve previously expressed that
in light of the fact that we had such a significant number of
individuals in one particular section in Del Rio, Texas, that we were
moving people to other Customs and Border Protection processing centers
to ensure the safe and secure processing of those individuals. And we
will assess the ability to exercise the Title 42 public health authority
in those processing centers.  
  
And if any of the exceptions apply, then we will place those individuals
in immigration enforcement proceedings. But if we are able to expel them
under Title 42 — because that is indeed a public health imperative as
determined by the Centers for Disease Control — we will do so.  
  
And with that, I’ll take your questions.  
  
MS. PSAKI: Steve.  
  
Q  Thank you. Mr. Secretary, thank you very much for coming in to take
our questions.  
  
SECRETARY MAYORKAS: Of course.  
  
Q  The first question is that I was hoping you could explain more of
your view that these agents on the border acted in a way that violated
policies or procedures. Could you tell us what they did wrong to
start?  
  
And then my second question has to do with what this episode — how this
episode informs your understanding or thinking about the current and
ongoing asylum review, and whether, perhaps if the administration were
to take a more permissive stance to — toward asylum, membership in a
particular social group, that this episode could be seen as one of many
in the future.  
  
SECRETARY MAYORKAS: So I — I think, if I may, you’re conflating two very
different phenomenon, two very different processes.  
  
First of all, the images, as I expressed earlier — the images horrified
us in terms of what they suggest and what they conjure up, in terms of
not only our nation’s history, but, unfortunately, the fact that that
page of history has not been turned entirely. And that means that there
is much work to do, and we are very focused on doing it.  
  
But I will not prejudge the facts. I do not, in any way, want to impair
the integrity of the investigative process. We have investigators who
are looking at it independently. They will draw their conclusions
according to their standard operating procedures, and then the results
of that investigation will be dete- — will be determined by the facts
that are adduced.  
  
Now, with respect to the asylum process that has — that is an
independent process — and I’m not sure I understood your question, if
you’re asking about the definition of a particular social group. And
just for everyone’s benefit, the asylum laws provide that an — the first
step in an asylum process is a claim of credible fear.  
  
Economic need, flight from generalized violence does not qualify as
credible fear, but rather credible fear is credible fear of persecution
by reason of one’s membership in a particular social group.  
  
What is the definition of a “particular social group” was significantly
constrained — that’s an understatement — in the Trump administration.
And there is a body of law that speaks to that definition, and that
definition is currently under review.  
  
Q  Right. But, Mr. Secretary, if I may — and forgive me for — just to
follow up on this point —  
  
SECRETARY MAYORKAS: Yes.  
  
Q  The question was: If this administration were to take a more
permissive stance toward that definition, could this be — what we’ve
just experienced in the last several weeks — just the first of many
similar instances to occur in this country on the border?  
  
SECRETARY MAYORKAS: What instance are you referring to? I’m sorry.  
  
Q  Well, we have 15,000 migrants who — that the United States government
has had to now process. And —  
  
SECRETARY MAYORKAS: So, we determine — we determine the standards to
apply in a claim of persecution according to the principles that a
government should have both domestically and in the international
architecture with the treatment of individuals who are fleeing
persecution by reason of their membership in a particular social group.
It is not a tool of deterrence to define what a “particular social
group” means.  
  
MS. PSAKI: Tam.  
  
Q  Yeah. The people who — sorry, I’m here hiding behind a mask.
(Laughter.)  
  
SECRETARY MAYORKAS: I’m sorry. Thank you.  
  
Q  The people who were under the bridge — you’ve talked about — some of
them have gone to Mexico, some of them have been flown to Haiti. The
others, are they spread out at CPB holding facilities? Have some been
released into the community or released to family members awaiting
hearing?  
  
SECRETARY MAYORKAS: So you ask a very —  
  
Q  What’s their status?  
  
SECRETARY MAYORKAS: So let me be clear: So, some have been returned to
Haiti, indeed. Others have been moved to different processing facilities
along the border in light of operational capacity, and then many of them
will be returned to Haiti from there. And if any of the exceptions
apply, they will not be returned to Haiti but placed in immigration
enforcement proceedings.  
  
I should say “released” is a very general term, and I may need to drill
down on that, if I may. Individuals — some of them are detained; some of
them are placed on alternatives to detention. We remain in touch with
them. We monitor them to ensure their appearance in court at the
designated time of appearance. Does that answer your question?  
  
Q  It does. One other question.  
  
SECRETARY MAYORKAS: And I gave —  
  
Q  Yeah.  
  
SECRETARY MAYORKAS: — and I provided the data, if I need to — to do so
again.  
  
Q  Yes. No, I got that. The broader question is that it seems like there
are border crises that keep popping up, sort of like whack-a­-mole.
Every month or so, there’s another clump of people or another major
issue or unaccompanied minors or — and is there a plan to maybe have,
you know, like FEMA-type teams that go to these crisis points? Or is the
goal to somehow stop having these crises that keep breaking out?  
  
SECRETARY MAYORKAS: Well, look, you mentioned FEMA. So two points, if I
may. Let me first address the fund- — well, let me go in reverse.  
  
From an operational response perspective, we addressed the challenge of
unaccompanied children in March. And I said then that we had a plan, we
were executing our plan, and it would take time. And in fact, within 60
days or so, we went from an average time of an unaccompanied child in a
Border Patrol station of 124 hours to less than 25 hours, and we did
that through our operational capacity throughout the Department of
Homeland Security, as directed by the President, in an all-of-
government effort.  
  
Here, last weekend, we had approximately 15,000 individuals in the Del
Rio section. I committed to addressing that within 10 days, and today we
have none. And that was because of the Department of Homeland Security’s
assets, with the assistance of others across the government. That is
something very different than the fact of the dynamism of irregular
migration writ large and the fact that this is a situation that has
occurred from time to time, ever since I can remember, in my more than
20 years of government service.  
  
And the President has spoken very powerfully about this from day one and
before he assumed office. First and foremost, and most fundamentally and
foundationally, we are dealing with a broken immigration system, and we
need legislative reform.  
  
And everyone agrees. In a world where unanimity is so difficult to
achieve, there is one thing that — as to which there is unanimity, and
that is the need for comprehensive immigration reform. And
unfortunately, it seems to remain elusive, but our real dedication to
achieving it is unrelenting, and we continue to do so. Number one.  
  
Number two, we have a three-part plan: We invest in the root causes to
address the need — to address the reason why people leave the homes in
which they live and take a perilous journey that they should not take.
Second, the building of safe, orderly, and humane pathways. And third,
rebuilding an asylum system and a refugee program that were dismantled
in the prior administration.  
  
This takes time, and we are executing our plans.  
  
MS. PSAKI: Ed.  
  
Q  Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Thank you for being here. I know we had
suggested it’d be great to have you, so it’s good to see you in the same
week we made that request.  
  
Starting with the situation in Del Rio, the mounted units are
temporarily suspended. Are you considering eliminating them  
altogether?  
  
SECRETARY MAYORKAS: So we’re going to — we’re going to take a look. What
we are focused on right now is addressing the urgency of the situation
in Del Rio under that bridge. We are still getting through it.  
  
Remember, as I mentioned in response to the prior question, we still
have operational needs across the border with respect to this particular
population of individuals. But we’re going to be taking a look at
this.  
  
What the horse patrol is customarily used to do — for everyone’s benefit
— is — you know, horses are able to cross terrain that might not
otherwise be traversed. And what they often do — and, in fact, most
often do — is assess the situation and actually assist in helping people
in distress. And that horse patrol — the horse patrol that the Customs
and Border Protection employs — the Border Patrol, specifically — has
actually saved lives many times before. But we will take a look.  
  
Q  And just on — because yours is such a sprawling department, you face
multiple issues at once. The situation regarding Afghan refugees that
are being processed by your department — we’ve had a few questions on
that that haven’t entirely been answered, and I’m just curious if you
know how many cases of forced marriage or so-called “child brides” has
DHS found in the system so far?  
  
SECRETARY MAYORKAS: To my knowledge, we have not found one. But I will
tell you that we have experts at the airport and beyond who understand
that phenomenon very, very well, who know how to detect the indicia, the
signs of any such activity, and are able to place people in secondary
screening, discern the facts, and make the decisions that the facts so
warrant. We are very skilled in that.  
  
MS. PSAKI: Rachel.  
  
Q  Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I know you said you’d be looking into this,
but the President was really clear today. He said those Border Patrol
agents on horseback seen in those images “will pay.” He said, “It’s
dangerous.” He says, “It’s wrong.” And he said, “There will be
consequences.” So do you disagree with that?  
  
SECRETARY MAYORKAS: Oh — I know the President was echoing the sentiments
of the American public in response to the images and what those images
suggest, but I want to speak to the fact that this investigation will be
based on the facts that the investigators learn, and the results of the
investigation will be driven by those facts and nothing less and nothing
more.

 Q  But the President said that they would pay, so you guys are not on
the same page on that?  
  
SECRETARY MAYORKAS: I think the President was speaking in terms of the
horror that he observed from seeing the images and what they suggest.

 MS. PSAKI: Phil.

 SECRETARY MAYORKAS: That investigation will have integrity, I can
assure you of that.  
  
Q  Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I understand you guys have been saying
since January 20th you inherited a broken system; there’s a lot of work
to be done here. But you have thousands of people living in squalid
conditions, limited opportunities to go through asylum processes here.
Advocates have been warning about situations like this for months now.
How much responsibility do you, does the administration take for these
situations continuing to, kind of, pop up in various places?  
  
SECRETARY MAYORKAS: So if you’re — if you’re addressing the situation in
Del Rio, I will tell you that it is unprecedented for us to see that
number of people arrive in one discrete point along the border in such a
compacted period of time. That is unprecedented.  
  
We have the Chief of the Border Patrol, Raul Ortiz, is, I think, a
30-year veteran and he has not seen that before. And what we do when we
see something that is unprecedented is we respond, and respond we did.  
  
MS. PSAKI: Steve.  
Q  Some Democrats have wanted you to be more lenient on the asylum
claims because of the earthquake that Haiti went through. Have you
considered that at all, sir?  
  
SECRETARY MAYORKAS: So, let me — let me speak to that. We studied the
conditions in Haiti a number of months ago, as is our legal obligation
to do so. And based on the country conditions that we observed and
studied, what we did is we designated Haiti for Temporary Protected
Status for those Haitian nationals resident in the United States who
were here prior to July 29th. And we were mindful of the assassination
that occurred, and we were unsure of the results of that assassination
in terms of the stability of the political order.  
  
Once a new leader took office and things seemed to settle down, we
determined that the July 29th date was equitable to address the
humanitarian relief of Haitian nationals already resident in the United
States.  
  
We have continued to study the conditions in Haiti, and we have in fact
determined, despite the tragic and devastating earthquake, that Haiti is
in fact capable of receiving individuals. And we are working with Haiti
and with humanitarian relief agencies to ensure that their return is as
safe and humanely accomplished as possible.  
  
I was around — I was at U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services on
January 10, 2010, the date of the last earthquake in Haiti, and that was
distinct from the earthquake that devastated people more recently. That
had far greater geographic repercussions than this one now.  
  
This one, as devastating and tragic as it is, was more geographically
limited, and we made a determination based on the legal standards and
the facts that, in fact, individuals could be returned to the country as
a whole.  
  
MS. PSAKI: Peter.

 Q  Thank you very much. Just to go back, please, to the images of these
mounted Border Patrol officers: You said on Saturday — or rather, on the
20th, “To ensure control of the horse, long reins are used.” The person
who took these photos of the Border Patrol agents says, “I’ve never seen
them whip anyone.” So, why is the President out there today talking
about people being “strapped”?  
  
SECRETARY MAYORKAS: So let me — let me correct the statements in your
question, if I may. It was —

 Q  They’re direct quotes.

 SECRETARY MAYORKAS: No, no — if I may. It was on Friday when I was —
actually, it was on Monday, I believe, when I was in Del Rio on the
ground and I made the statements without having seen the images. I saw
the images on the flight back, and I made the statement that I did with
respect to what those images suggested.  
  
There — the horses have long reins, and the image in the photograph that
we all saw, and that horrified the nation, raised serious questions
about what it — let me finish — about what occurred and of — as I stated
quite clearly, it conjured up images of what has occurred in the past.  
  
Let me — let me finish.  
  
There’s also a question of how one uses the horse and how one interacts
with individuals with the horse. And so I’m going to let the
investigation run its course. I’m not going to interfere with that
investigation. The facts will be determined by the investigators, and
then the results will be driven by the facts that are determined.

 Q  And just to follow up, please — before the facts are in, is it
helpful to your investigation for the President of the United States to
use inflammatory language, like people being “strapped”?  
  
SECRETARY MAYORKAS: Let me just be very clear and repeat what I’ve said:
I am not concerned with respect to the integrity of the investigation.
We know how to conduct an investigation with integrity. I served as — 12
years as a federal prosecutor. There were a great deal of comments in
many of the cases that I handled in the public sphere, and I know how to
maintain the integrity of an investigation, and this investigation will
have integrity.  
  
MS. PSAKI: Just a few more. Peter, go ahead.  
  
Q  Mr. Secretary, thank you. Are Title 42 expulsions, sending Haitians
back to danger in Haiti, immoral? Yes or no?  
  
SECRETARY MAYORKAS: No, they are not. They are driven by a public health
imperative.

 Q  I understand the public health imperative —

 SECRETARY MAYORKAS:  But let me —

 Q  — but are they immoral?

 SECRETARY MAYORKAS: But let me — let me explain, because — let me be
quite clear: We do not conduct ourselves in an immoral way. We do not
conduct ourselves in an unethical way. In fact — in fact, we are
restoring people by reason of the immorality of the past administration.
We are reuniting families that were separated.  
  
Let me explain something — the reality of the situation — because we’re
dealing with a great number of individuals who are encountered at the
border in a congregate setting and placed in Customs and Border
Protection — you know, Border Patrol stations. And that can cause the
significant spread of a pandemic.  
  
And it is in light of the operational realities that the Centers for
Disease Control made a determination in its public health expertise that
Title 42 authority must be exercised. It is a statutory authority. And
they made the determination that the public health of the migrants
themselves, our personnel, local communities, and the American public
require it.

 And that is why we are exercising that authority to serve the public
health. Over 600,000 Americans have died. More than 40 U.S. Customs and
Border Protection personnel have died. Many migrants have gotten sick.  
  
We are doing this out of a public health need. It is not an immigration
policy. It is not an immigration policy that we would embrace.  
  
Q  With all due respect, sir —

 MS. PSAKI: Okay, Rachel. Last one.

 Q  — your statement acknowledges the treatment —

 MS. PSAKI: Go ahead, Rachel.  
  
Q  — of Haitian immigrants.

 Q  Secretary, thank you.  
  
MS. PSAKI: Go ahead. Go ahead. We’ve all been civil here. Let’s have
Rachel — let Rachel have her question.  
  
Q  The congregation under the bridge — the congregating there — just
mentioning COVID — what is the situation there? I know that the crowd
has been dispersed. Do we know who has tested positive? If people got
sick, any kind of symptoms among this group of 15,000, you said?  
  
SECRETARY MAYORKAS: Yeah, so, we did not — we do not te- — we did not
test that population of individuals. We do not know — I do not know, I
should say, if I may be perfectly accurate — I do not know whether
anyone was sick with COVID.  
  
We certainly had some individuals get sick, not specifically with COVID,
to my knowledge, and we addressed their illnesses. In fact, we set up
medical tents that had a certain standard of ability to address medical
needs.  
  
It is — it was ho- — it’s hot in Del Rio, Texas. We had cases of
dehydration. We had other situations. And that is precisely why we
surged one hundred — approximately 150 medical professionals to address
the medical needs of that population. That is why we set up medical
facilities with the appropriate equipment to address their medical
needs.  
  
And I must say, what I saw of the Border Patrol and other personnel was,
quite frankly, heroic. They took — this is not their customary
obligations, and yet they took great pride in addressing the needs of
the people.  
  
Q  With all due respect, sir, your statement — that “this is not who we
are” — belies the actual treatment of Haitian immigrants not just in
this administration, but in administrations of both parties, going back
decades. And you seem to be distinguishing between violence and
violence. What is the difference between —  
  
SECRETARY MAYORKAS: I’m sorry —  
  
Q  — the type of violence that Haitians are fleeing in Haiti and the
type of devastation and — other devastation that they’re fleeing, as
compared to other immigrants and asylum seekers?  
  
Democrats left and right, up and down, have been talking about the
violence that people have been fleeing in Central America and South
America. And the President, even during his campaign, talked about the
fact that this created a need to create a pathway and an asylum system.
This doesn’t seem to be the case when it comes to Haitian immigrants.  
  
SECRETARY MAYORKAS: Oh, if —  
  
Q  And, in fact, the images are a true graphic representation of the way
Haitian immigrants and immigrants of African descent have been treated,
not just by this administration.  
  
MS. PSAKI: I think we have to finish the question so we can answer it.  
  
SECRETARY MAYORKAS: If I may, I would respectfully disagree with you.
And let me — let me say —  
  
Q  I happen to be an immigrant and have been on the wrong side of the
U.S. immigration for the last 20 years, so I have some experience with
it.  
  
SECRETARY MAYORKAS: Oh, no, no, no — I wasn’t commenting on your
personal experience, sir. And I am an immigrant as well. I wasn’t
commenting on your personal experience. I was respectfully disagreeing
with an assertion that you made, if I may.  
  
Because if —  
  
Q  So, what is the difference —  
  
SECRETARY MAYORKAS: — if — if I may: An asylum claim is determined based
on the facts that are presented in the individual case. In fact, the
Title 42 authority has been applied to irregular migration since the
very beginning of this administration and before. And it has applied to
individuals from Guatemala, Honduras, El Salvador, and other
countries.  
  
It has been applied equally, and the exceptions that I cited have been
the exceptions that have applied to all. There are three exceptions: the
Convention Against Torture; acute vulnerabilities, such as extreme
medical needs; and operational capacity. Those are the three
exceptions.  
  
Title 42 authority has been applied, irrespective of the country of
origin, irrespective of the race of the individual, irrespective of
other criteria that don’t belong in our adjudicative process and we do
not permit in our adjudicative process.  
  
MS. PSAKI: Thank you, Secretary Mayorkas.  
  
Q  And one follow-up — the whipping — the whips, the horse whips —  
  
SECRETARY MAYORKAS: Sir, that is something — that is something that
horrified us all. And, you know, this morning, I was on radio, and the
interviewer said that it was — it troubled, very profoundly, the Black
and the African American community. And I said one thing — and this
should be clear: Those are not the only communities that it horrified.
Those are not the only communities that it concerned. Of course, that
concern might be most acute, given the history in this country and in
other parts of the world. But all of America is horrified to see what
those images suggest.  
  
MS. PSAKI: Thank you so much, Secretary Mayorkas. Appreciate your
time.  
  
Q  One more question.  
  
MS. PSAKI: He’ll come back. I promise. I know there’s lots of questions,
but we have to let him go back to his job.  
  
Q  Thank you, Secretary.  
  
SECRETARY MAYORKAS: Thank you all. Thank you.  
  
MS. PSAKI: Thank you so much, Secretary Mayorkas.  
  
Q  You’re welcome anytime.  
  
MS. PSAKI: You’re always invited. Open invitation.  
  
Okay. Two items for all of you at the top. In addition, today, the
Treasury Department released data on the Emergency Rental Assistance
Program, which shows that through the month of August, state and local
ERA programs — Emergency Rental Assistance programs — have distributed
more than 1.4 million payments to households, totaling more than $7.7
billion, to support the housing stability of vulnerable renters and
landlords. So, 420,000 households were served in August — an increase of
about 24 percent since July.  
  
Over $2.3 billion in rental assistance was distributed in August, which
represents roughly three times the amount spent in May.  
  
We distri- — we expect distribution progress to continue, but even if
this pace simply maintains, it would mean 3 million payments to renters
in need and $16.7 billion in Emergency Rental Assistance spending, which
would have a very meaningful, positive impact on 2021.  
  
And just quickly on the week ahead: Throughout — we’ll obviously have
more to convey to all of you over the weekend, just to set
expectations.  
  
But throughout next week, the President will continue to engage with
members of Congress and congressional leadership on his Build Back
Better agenda and the Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal. They will also
discuss passing the continuing resolution, providing disaster relief,
and avoiding default.  
  
And on Wednesday — and we’re obviously leaving some space to do exactly
that. And on Wednesday, the President will travel to Chicago, Illinois,
to highlight the importance of COVID-19 vaccine requirements for
businesses.  
  
And, again, we’ll have more as the weekend proceeds.  
  
Josh, why don’t you go ahead.  
  
Q  Thanks, Jen. Two questions. First, the Quad’s meeting here at the
White House. The President said he doesn’t want a new Cold War with
China. And yet, we’ve also seen cyberattacks; businesses are reporting
supply chain issues with their suppliers in China. What confidence does
the administration and its allies have that China also does not want a
new Cold War?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Well, what we can speak to is what our intention is, and you
heard the President convey clearly in his speech at the U.N. General
Assembly earlier this week that our relationships with China, our
approach to China is one of competition and not one of conflict.  
  
I will say as it relates to the Quad — which is, I think, ongoing,
unless it — unless it wrapped — and we’ll have a robust readout for you
with all the deliverables — but the focus of that is not — it’s not a
security meeting or security apparatus.  
  
This is — the focus of this group is on COVID, climate, emerging
technology, and infrastructure — all areas where it’s incredibly
important to coordinate with key partners who are in the global
community, including in that region.  
  
Q  Understood. I guess I ask because the Australian PM said “free
democracy” without saying “China.” But I guess the second area is
Afghanistan, where we had this drone strike. And we now know that this
was an aid worker. How did this happen? What does this tell us about our
intelligence in Afghanistan? And what are the procedures for
accountability going forward?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Well, I know, last Friday, the Defense Department did an
extensive briefing on this and put out an extensive statement where they
conveyed clearly that this was a horrible mistake, that this was a
tragedy, as is the loss of civilian life in any occasion and certainly
in this case.  
  
There’s also been — they’ve also — they also announced that they would
look back at the CENTCOM review that they announced last week.  
  
So that is a process that would be ongoing and undergone at the
Department of Defense.  
  
I would note — and I’m not sure if this was exactly your question — but
some have asked about what it means for our over-the-horizon
capabilities and capacities — and I don’t know if that is what you were
getting at — as we look to Afghanistan, as we look to preventing
terrorists from, you know, threatening our partners or even threatening
our homeland.  
  
One, of course, we watch that closely from our intelligence community;
they do regular briefings, as you’ve seen, on the Hill. But also,
over-the-horizon capacity is not the same as steps that were taken as it
was in the case of this drone strike or the strike before it, where our
troops are threatened on the ground and where immediate action needs to
be taken in order to prevent or attempt to prevent their lives from
being threatened. Obviously, this was a horrific mistake.  
  
Over-the-horizon capacity, you have more time to consider, to look at
targets, to consider intelligence, and that’s the difference in how we
would approach it moving forward. But there would be a look at the
CENTCOM review, and that’s something that would come out of the
Department of Defense.  
  
I just want to jump around because I promised I would.  
  
Okay, let’s go to Al Jazeera first.  
  
Q  Yes, thank you. I’ve been trying to ask this question for months; I
appreciate you taking it. It’s a freedom of the press question.  
  
Members of the administration — you, recently, this week — talked about
the importance of journalism to democracy. The President also made a
point of saying his presidency was different from his predecessor.  
  
So why is President Biden keeping the Trump-era charges against Julian
Assange? Why is he allowing the prosecution from publishing the truth
about human rights abuses in Iraq, Afghanistan, Guantanamo? And does the
President believe the ongoing detention of Assange is reasonable, even
moral, given the transparency delivered and the greater good served?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Well, I don’t have anything new to say on the — on Julian
Assange, and I would point you the Department of Justice on that.  
  
I would say, though, that we do think of ourselves and we are
approaching this from an entirely different approach of the last few
years as it relates to freedom of the press. And I think the Department
of Justice’s actions as it relates to the prosecution of journalists, or
how we’re going to look at or go after records — something that the
Attorney General made an announcement about, the President has spoken to
— is very clear evidence of exactly that.  
  
Q  But does the President see this as a freedom of press issue with
respect to Assange? Or does he separate —  
  
MS. PSAKI: Again, I have nothing — I have nothing new to speak to on
Julian Assange.  
  
Q  This is something that I emailed you about months ago, so there’s
been time to — to (inaudible) this.  
  
MS. PSAKI: I understand. I understand. I still don’t —  
  
Q  Is there something —  
  
MS. PSAKI: I don’t have a new comment from here.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q  You guys don’t want to touch —  
  
Q  Yeah, thank you.  
  
Q  I have one more.  
  
MS. PSAKI: Sure. Go ahead.  
  
Q  I’ve been waiting months.  
  
MS. PSAKI: Go ahead.  
  
Q  Thank you. You know, we’ve talked about the images that these — that
the Al Jazeera footage exposed with respect to the horses that —  
  
MS. PSAKI: Yeah.  
  
Q  — along the border, the pain that that conjures up for African
Americans in this country. The President has condemned this, but, you
know, the President has also promised African Americans in this country
that he had their back.  
  
Al Sharpton has said this week, “We’re being stabbed in the back. Mr.
President, we need you to stop the stabbing, from Haiti to Harlem.” He’s
talking about the failure of the police reform bill.  
  
What does the President need to do to address this? What does he need to
do more for the community? You said this week there’s been the
engagement with leaders, but does the President need to do more than
that? And what should he be doing?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Well, first, I would say, since you referenced police reform,
the President is absolutely frustrated that we haven’t been able to move
forward with police reform. He supported the efforts by negotiators on
the Democratic side, on the Republican side, to try to find common
ground.  
  
He also was frustrated that they couldn’t find — move — they weren’t
able to move forward, despite the fact that there was agreement from
even police organizations and others about what — about what the path
forward looked like. So, he’s incredibly frustrated.  
  
It requires Congress moving forward in order to have that kind of
lasting impact. But the President has also been clear he’s going to
engage with advocates, engage with members, and also consider options
like executive actions — which is something that we did not act on
because we wanted to leave space for these negotiations to continue.  
  
Q  But does that make the African American voters feel recognized, that
they are being seen, that they’re being heard? I mean, bring it down to
the laymen level.  
  
MS. PSAKI: You asked me specifically about police reform, so that’s why
I addressed that specific question.  
  
I would say that the President has been an advocate for civil rights
changes, for reforms that are needed, for equity across our system from
— for many, many decades, and that is a central tenet of his presidency.
And that is evidenced in a range of executive orders that he signed
early on in his presidency; his advocacy for voting rights, for police
reform; and certainly the comments and remarks you heard him give this
morning.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q  Jen, thanks. The former President, last night, in response to these
subpoenas that were announced by the January 6th Committee, said that he
was going to assert executive privilege. He’s not in the executive
branch anymore, so I don’t think he can do that.  
  
Has he reached out or have his people reached out to the Biden
administration to say, “Hey, we don’t want communications between former
President Trump and Mark Meadows,” for example,” to be released”? And
how would this White House deal with that kind of request?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Well, I’m not aware of any outreach. We don’t get regular
outreach from the former President or his team, I think it’s safe to
assume.  
  
I would say that we take this matter incredibly seriously. The President
has already concluded that it would not be appropriate to assert
executive privilege, and so we will respond promptly to these questions
as they arise, and certainly, as they come up from Congress. And
certainly, we are — we have been working closely with — with
congressional committees and others as they work to get to the bottom of
what happened on January 6th, an incredibly dark day in our democracy.  
  
Okay, let’s go to Yahoo.  
  
Q  Jen, throughout much of the spring and early summer, our vaccination
goal was 70 percent for adults. What is it now?  
  
MS. PSAKI: It’s much higher than that. I’m happy to get the — the
up-to-date-to-today data from the COVID team. I know it’s over 75
percent. It’s something that we see continue to climb. It’s something
that we’ve seen climb over the past several weeks as mandates have been
put — put in place by companies; as there has been, unfortunately, a
rising fear of Delta; as people have seen horrific images on television.
So, we have seen encouraging climbs in vaccinations and vaccination
rates in communities across the country.  
  
Q  No, I’m sorry, I understand that, but what are — what goal are we
trying to hit?  When will we know that we’ve succeeded in our
vaccination efforts?  
  
MS. PSAKI: We’re going to try to get as many people in the country
vaccinated as humanly possible. We’re not going to put an end-limit on
that. It’s a — it’s a continuing work, a continuing top priority of this
administration.  
  
Shelby, go ahead.  
  
Q  Thanks. So, we know that the Vice President has been tasked with
addressing the root causes of migration. A Democratic congressman from
Texas told CNN yesterday that the Vice President’s trip to Mexico and
Central America had no impact. So, first, I’m wondering if the
administration can just detail some tangible examples of the actions in
addressing the root causes of migration that have had a tangible, you
know — an actual impact.  
  
And then, secondly, what specific causes — root causes is the Vice
President currently addressing to help curb Haitian migration from
places like Chile and Brazil?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Well, I think, as the Vice President and the President have
both conveyed, this is going to be a long-term effort. And what the
focus is on is addressing root causes like corruption, like economic
circumstances that are impacting people and prompting them to want to
come to the United States.  
  
So that requires working with governments both to put in place new
migration proceedings and processes, or limitations, sometimes at
borders. We’ve seen some impacts of those over the course of the last
several months.  
  
It also includes providing assistance and engaging closely with these
leaders on what steps can be taken. And the Vice President has been
deeply engaged in this.  
  
But, again, as it relates to Haiti, as it relates to our broken
immigration system, the clear step that needs to be taken is an
immigration bill needs to pass Congress. It’s a broken system — one that
is ineffective; one that is not moral, in many cases, at this point in
time. It’s long overdue.  
  
There are a lot of Republicans out there giving speeches about how
outraged they are about the situation at the border, not many who are
putting forward solutions or steps that we could take. So, we’re a
little tired of the speeches. We’d like to partner on solutions and
working together to address this problem that has not been partisan in
the past.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q  Thank you, Jen. Two quick questions. The President met, just two days
ago, with a group of lawmakers — five hours of meetings. Does he have a
better sense after all of those meetings — five hours of meetings — as
to whether or not the vote will take place this Monday on the bipartisan
Senate bill in the House of Representatives?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Well, our work did not stop after those five hours of
meetings. And the President has always known that this would be a key
inflection point — and we are certainly at one, right at this moment —
because while there is broad agreement on the need to lower costs for
childcare, for elder care, for college, for preschool, the need to
rebuild bridges and roads, the need to address the climate crisis, the
need to re- — have a more fair tax system — there are discussions about
the size.  
  
Now, as the President said multiple times this morning, the package will
cost zero dollars. There are a range of revenue options that can cover
whatever the cost of the package looks like. But these are important
discussions that need to be had. We know that there are differences of
opinion among members of our own party. And we’re still at work at it,
and our team was still at work yesterday.  
  
I will say, as it relates to the next steps here, we want to win the
vote when it happens. That’s our objective.  
  
Q  The second question has to do with COVID protocols that exist in the
West Wing, in particular.  
  
MS. PSAKI: Sure.  
  
Q  The President meets regularly with his counterparts, like today —  
  
MS. PSAKI: Yep.  
  
Q  — from around the world. He meets with lawmakers. He meets with
activists, with private citizens from time to time. When new ambassadors
present their credentials, they do so right now via Zoom. Is there a
particular reason why the President doesn’t meet with those new
ambassadors face to face, like has been done in the past by other
Presidents?  
  
MS. PSAKI: I know he’s eager to do that in the future. I don’t have any
more information or prediction of when that may happen, but, certainly,
something he looks forward to doing. And he respects and values the role
of ambassadors who are serving around the world.  
  
Q  So is there a particular reason why he’s not doing that right now —
why he’s doing it by Zoom?  
  
MS. PSAKI: It’s not a COVID reason, but I’m happy to check if there’s a
plan for welcoming ambassadors in person anytime soon.  
  
Chris, do you have a question? I don’t want to jump — I don’t want put
you on the spot. Or Chris may not.  
  
Q  I have a question on Quad —  
  
MS. PSAKI: Anne, go ahead.  
  
Q  I’m sorry.    
  
MS. PSAKI: That’s fine. It’s a Friday.  
  
Q  I wanted to clarify something —  
  
MS. PSAKI: Sure.  
  
Q  — you said a moment ago. And then, I have another question. When you
say that the President has determined that it’s not appropriate to
assert executive privilege in the January 6th documents matter, is that
a blanket statement or would you — or are you going to evaluate the
requests from the investigating group as they come in one by one with an
eye to not assert executive privilege?  
  
MS. PSAKI: It’s an eye to not asserting executive privilege, Anne, and
obviously some of this is predicting what we don’t know yet, but that is
certainly his overarching view.  
  
Q  Is there something that you wouldn’t turn over that you can think
of?  
  
MS. PSAKI: I don’t think I’m going to get ahead of a hypothetical.  
  
But that is what’s important for people to know and understand is,
that’s the principle through which we’re approaching this.  
  
Q  Okay. And then separately, on the potential government shutdown, has
there been any determination or thought quite yet to what happens to
ongoing COVID-related work during a potential shutdown? I’m thinking of
potentially like the Department of Labor working on their mandate
ideas.  
  
MS. PSAKI: So, we, obviously, want to do everything we can to avoid a
government shutdown. I can tell you that, as it relates to exemptions,
our expectation is because it’s public health work, is that the vast
majority of work on COVID would be exempted. But I think it’s safe to
say that even if that — even with that being the case, that having the
government shutdown and having the impact on systems, on processes, on
personnel is not ideal and — more than not ideal, is — would be — it
would be challenging, as we’re fight — facing a pandemic, as we’re
working to get a lot of programs’ funding out to people across the
country, which is why we’re — we’re focused on avoiding it.  
  
Go ahead, Patsy.  
  
Q  Thank you, Jen. I have two questions on the Quad Summit and an
apology to Anne for cutting in line. So on —  
  
MS. PSAKI: Oh, it’s okay. We tried to call on Chris, but he’s —
(laughter) —  
  
Q  So, on Quad —  
  
MS. PSAKI: It’s okay. Go ahead.  
  
Q  President Biden said that the Quad is on track to produce 1 billion
doses of vaccine by the end of 2022. I believe it’s “produced” and not
“delivered.” And then also, on the doses already pledged, the initial
500 million doses announced in June, that’s 200 million delivered by end
of 2021; the rest by mid-2022; and then, the latest 500 million
announced delivered by the end of the next year.  
  
So, first, can you confirm if I have that timeline right? Second, can
the world wait that long, especially if the goal to end the pandemic is
by end of 2022? That delivery timeline does not seem to support that.  
  
MS. PSAKI: Well, let me confirm the specifics here. So the timeline for
delivery of the — of these 500 million doses: First 200 million doses
will be delivered by June of 2022, I think as you said; second 300
million doses will be delivered by quarter three of 2022. In total,
we’ll donate 1 billion doses of Pfizer. That’s part of that total.
Obviously, we’ve already donated 160 million doses already to date.  
  
What I will say, Patsy, is that right now, we are still the world’s
largest contributor of vaccine doses by — more than every other country
in the world combined. We have committed to give more — for every one
dose here, we’ve committed to give three doses overseas. That is more
than anyone else. No one else in the world can say that.  
  
So — and we’re also helping produce — add to manufacturing capacity. The
Quad partnership — who is here, of course, meeting as we speak — is on
track to produce at least 1 billion vaccine doses by the end of 2022.
We’re also working to boost vaccine manufacturing in South Africa.  
  
But we need help from the rest of the developed world, and the rest of
the developed world needs to also step up. We’re going to continue to
increase our role in contributing vaccines, contributing know-how,
making sure that we are playing a constructive role in bringing an end
to the pandemic. But we need the rest of the world to step up, and
that’s what our focus is on.  
  
Karen, go ahead.  
  
Q  And a second question on Quad. Did the President discuss
over-the-horizon capacity with Prime Minister Modi, in particular
whether it involves Pakistan or India?  
  
MS. PSAKI: It’s — I know we were going to give a — put out a joint
statement. I’m not sure if it’s out at this point in time. The Quad
meeting was also ongoing when I came out here, but we’ll have a lot that
we will put out to all of you.  
  
Go ahead, Karen.  
  
Q  Thanks, Jen. Two questions. The DHS Secretary several times said he
didn’t want to impair the integrity of the investigation to the Border
Patrol agents. He said, “I will not prejudge the facts.” Did the
President prejudge the facts when he said, “I promise you those people
will pay”?  
  
MS. PSAKI: I think what you heard from the President is a very human and
visceral response to those images, which I think reflects how a lot of
people in the country felt when they saw them.  
  
There is an investigation the Department of Homeland Security is
overseeing. That will determine what the personnel decisions may be, any
other policy decisions, and that needs to see itself through.  
  
But I think the President wanted to make clear to people who watched
those photos, who had understandably emotional responses, that that’s
not acceptable to him, even while the investigation is being so- — is
being — is happening and moving forward. That will determine what the
consequences will look like.  
  
Q  And on the reconciliation package, Senator Manchin told reporters on
Wednesday night that the President, quote, basically just said, “Find a
number you’re comfortable with based on the needs you still have and how
we deliver it to the American people.” The President today said, “Forget
the number” and that lawmakers shouldn’t be focusing on that topline
number. So what changed from Wednesday’s meeting, when he said, “Give me
a number,” to today, to “forget the number”?  
  
MS. PSAKI: I know that sounds hard to believe, but they’re not actually
contradictory. What the President was trying to convey today repeatedly
is that there’s a lot of focus on the topline number, but ultimately,
there are a range of proposals on how to pay for it by making the tax
system more fair so, actually, the cost is zero. That was the point he
was making.  
  
So — and that’s why he’s been so focused on telling the story of the
substance. And as it relates to Senator Manchin, or anyone else who may
have different points of view — and we welcome that in the Democratic
Party, of course, in democracy — yes, part of this is a disagreement —
or discussion, I should say — about what the size of the package — what
the topline, even though it’s going to be paid for and will cost zero,
will look like. So, both things are true.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
 Q  Can I ask, what’s the — how do you — when you talk to the President,
what’s his approach at this point in time with his domestic agenda? And
the reason I ask that —  
  
MS. PSAKI: Yeah.  
  
Q  — is because there have been moments, particularly with COVID relief,
where he was basically like, “I need this, and I need this now” to
lawmakers. Lawmakers I spoke to who met with him on Wednesday were very
clear he was soliciting information: “What are you looking at? What do
you need? What’s important to you?”  
  
When does he hit the moment of, “All right, I need this now. Like, we
need to get this done. This is my red line. We’re moving”?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Well, I talked to the President about this, this morning. His
view is that this is a process, and he understands and has lived through
many of these processes in the past. And his approach is, “You have to
listen. You have to hear people out. You have to answer their
questions.”  
  
And, yes, at a certain point, you need to forge a path forward and look
to unify a range of viewpoints on wherever there may be some marginal
disagreements.  
  
We’re in the middle of that inflection point now. And the next several
days, weeks are going to be pivotal on that; there’s no question about
it.  
  
But he also understands and has been through enough of these processes
before to know that he needs to listen, he needs to be a partner with
members. And he’s ready to pick up the phone, invite people down —
COVID-friendly snacks, as I said the other day — to play a constructive
role in that.  
  
He also knows that sometimes those conversations need to happen at a
staff level — a senior staff level or senior staff-to-member level or
staff-to-committee level. He knows, of all people, how this process
works, and he’s just evaluating, hour by hour, how he can be the most
constructive in unifying a path forward.  
  
Go ahead.

 Q  Just one other question. What, if any, comment does the White House
have on the apparent results of the new GOP-backed review of ballots in
Maricopa County? The draft report appears to show the President earned
99 more votes; the former President, 261 fewer.  
  
MS. PSAKI: It confirmed what we have all known for some time and what
millions and millions of people in the country know.  
  
Q  And with Republicans pushing for similar reviews in Texas, Wisconsin,
Pennsylvania, is there anything the federal government or the White
House can do to address that, given that members of your party are
concerned about this ongoing attempt, or actual review, of ballots?  
  
MS. PSAKI: It’s a good question, Ed. I’ll have to check and see if
there’s anything substantively, which I think is what you’re asking me,
that we would have the power to do in this case.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q  Thank you, Jen. Two topics, really quick. First, the President has
said and you have tweeted that allegations of wrongdoing based on files
pulled from Hunter Biden’s laptop are Russian disinformation. There’s a
new book by a Politico reporter that finds some of the files on there
are genuine. Is the White House still going with “Russian
disinformation”?  
  
MS. PSAKI: I think it’s broadly known and widely known, Peter, that
there was a broad range of Russian disinformation back in 2020.  
  
Q  Okay. Moving on to the border, following up on a question from
earlier in the week: Why hasn’t President Biden ever visited the
southern border?  
  
MS. PSAKI: What would you like him to do at the southern border? And
what impact do you think that would have on the policies?  
  
Q  Why doesn’t he want to go?  
  
MS. PSAKI: I don’t think it’s an issue of wanting to go; I think it’s an
issue of what’s most constructive to address what we see as a
challenging situation at the border and a broken immigration system.  
  
And his view is: The most constructive role we can play is by helping to
push immigration reform forward; helping reform the broken policies of
the last several years; and listening to his team of advisors, who have
been to the border multiple times, about what the path forward should
look like.

 Q  So why is this the one crisis then that he thinks he can manage
better from here without having seen it than going to the southern
border and seeing it?  
  
MS. PSAKI: I can assure you the President is well aware of what the
challenges are in our broken immigration system, something he watched
closely over the last four years.  
  
Okay. Go ahead, Steve.  
  
Q  Just to put a fine point on your answer to Karen’s question —  
  
MS. PSAKI: Sure.  
  
Q  — because I’m sure that the union officials and lawyers who will be
representing these agents are going to —  
  
MS. PSAKI: Yeah.  
  
Q  — want to know: Is it your view or the White House’s position that
what the President said this morning is not legally operative, with
respect to consequences, and these people “paying” was simply his
personal view and not representative of actions that the government will
take?  
  
MS. PSAKI: The President was not prejudging the outcome of an
investigation either; the President was responding from his heart and
responding to seeing horrific photos that we have seen over the last
several days.  
  
Q  But he is the head of the executive branch; the Constitution vests
him with the authority in Article Two. You’re saying that what he said
will not necessarily be the outcome?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Again, there’s an investigation that’s ongoing. I don’t know
that anyone saw those photos and didn’t have a similar reaction to the
President’s, and that was what it was a reflection of.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q  Thank you, Jen. As you know, Afghanistan’s situation is so bad and
lack of food in Afghanistan. I don’t know that the United States has any
plan for humanitarian help and assist with Afghan people?  
  
MS. PSAKI: We actually do. So, I would say the Department of Treasury
actually, today, announced two general licenses to allow humanitarian
aid to continue to flow in Afghanistan, despite U.S. sanctions. And our
priority is, of course, ensuring that 100 percent of humanitarian
assistance goes directly to independent organizations like U.N. agencies
and NGOs who can provide vulnerable Afghans with critically needed food;
emergency health needs, including COVID-19; and other urgently needed
humanitarian relief.  
  
So, all funds are directly closely vetted through local and
international partners. This is one of the reasons we’ve been focused on
getting the airport up and running. And these NGOs and U.N. agencies are
experienced in working in challenging environments to get the food and
assistance to exactly the right people.  
  
Q  Jen. Jen. Thanks, Jen.  
  
MS. PSAKI: Go ahead.

 Q  Jen, what’s the —

 MS. PSAKI: Okay, last one, and — sorry, last two.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q  Quickly, Nancy Pelosi said, as we’ve noted, that there was going to
be a vote; they hope to pass both the bipartisan infrastructure bill and
the social safety net multitrillion-dollar bill, with details still to
be ironed out. What is the political risk for Democrats if that does not
pass on Monday?  
  
MS. PSAKI: We want — when the vote happens, we want to win the vote.
That’s what our focus is on. We’ll let leadership determine the next
steps beyond that.  
  
Q  Understanding that but recognizing, as we’ve heard from some
progressives, that they may have as many as 90-plus votes who would
oppose this right now if there isn’t passage by the Senate on the social
safety net bill. What’s it — I mean, what’s at risk? This is ultimately
what the President ran on — that he could get these things done. So what
is the risk, in terms of the motivating factor for Democrats?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Our objective is for when the vote is called for us to be
able to win the vote, so I don’t think that’s a point we’re planning for
at this point in time.  
  
All right. Oh, Rachel, last one.  
  
Q  Just one quick question on the January 6th select committee in
Congress. We know they sent out those subpoenas to Trump’s inner circle.
Congressman Adam Schiff said that he would ask the Justice Department to
enforce those subpoenas if necessary. Does the administration and the
White House support that?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Well, I know that they’ve been called to appear in October, I
believe, if I saw in reporting. So, in our view, it would be premature
to discuss either point — discuss this, I should say — or speak to it
because the subpoenas have just been issued and we haven’t seen their
response quite yet.  
  
Thanks so much, everyone. Have a great weekend.  
  
3:36 P.M. EDT
