---
category: press-briefings
date: '2021-09-13'
modified_time: 2021-09-13 15:16:02-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/09/13/press-gaggle-by-principal-deputy-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-en-route-boise-id/
published_time: 2021-09-13 15:30:00-04:00
title: Press Gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre En Route
  Boise, ID
---
 
12:39 P.M. EDT  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Good morning, everybody, and welcome to the
President’s first trip to the West Coast as President of the United
States.  As you all know, we’re traveling to Boise, Idaho, where the
President will receive a briefing from federal and state fire agency
officials at the National Interagency Fire Center, the nation’s hub
coordinating all of our federal firefighting resources.

After, he will travel to Northern California to speak with emergency
response personnel at Cal OE- — Cal OES, the California Governor’s
Office of Emergency Services. The President will also survey damage from
the Caldor fire, one of a number of California fire — wildfires that
have burned nearly 2 million acres and thousands of structures this
year.

As one in three Americans are impacted by the increasing frequency and
ferocity of extreme weather events, President Biden will reiterate the
message he shared on the East Coast last week: The climate crisis is in
code red.

The President will underscore how the investments he is proposing in the
bipartisan infrastructure deal and the Build Back Better agenda will
strengthen our nation’s resilience to climate change and extreme weather
events, advance environmental justice, and create good-paying jobs —
union jobs.

And tomorrow, President Biden will travel to Denver, Colorado, to
continue discussing how his agenda will help our country tackle the
climate crisis, modernizing our infrastructure and make it more
resilient, all while creating good jobs and growing the economy in the
long term.

Okay, with that, Alex, can you kick us off?

Q  Sure. Two questions. The first one foreign. Does the White House have
a reaction to the North Korean missile launch over the weekend?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: As you have may seen, INDOPACOM put out a statement
last night, and I refer you to that statement.

Q  Okay. And then, domestic: Senator Joe Manchin again reiterated his
opposition to the $3.5 trillion price tag on the reconciliation bill. Is
the President still confident he’ll eventually get Manchin to go along?
Has he spoken with the Senator since those comments? And if he’s not
confident, would he be open to lowering that price tag?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, let me first say this: I don’t have any calls to
read out of a conversation that the President has had with Senator
Manchin. As you know, he speaks regularly with leadership and
congressional members on the Hill and Senate members.

Like I said recently, when I actually last did this gaggle, I’m not
going to negotiate about the topline number from here. The President and
his whole team — as you all know, we’ve said this many times — is proud
and fighting for the substance of this Build Back agenda, which is paid
for by asking big corporations and the wealthiest Americans to pay their
fair share, and by empowering Medicare to negotiate lower prices with
pharmaceutical companies so that we can ensure middle-class families who
work hard and play by the rules can get higher-paying jobs, have their
tax cuts and their paychecks to go farther. That’s all done without —
without — raising taxes by one cent on Americans earning under $400,000
a year.

So that is the focus. That’s been the President’s economic plan,
economic policy, way before he became President.

But more importantly, it should be understood that that $3.5 trillion
figure is not the price tag for this; this is not accurate and it’s not
how economic legislation is usually described. That is the amount that
the Build Back Better plan would invest in creating jobs and cutting
costs for American families as we work to build the middle class.

So we need to cut prescription drugs; as I mentioned, take on climate
change. One of the reasons we’re going out there: We’ll see what the
wildfires have done, sadly — on the West Coast — and help families
afford childcare for older Americans, and education, and extend a
historic middle-class tax cut.

Think all of the ways — these are all the ways that we’ll cut costs for
families. So that’s what matters, and that’s what he’s going to be
focusing on.

Q  Regarding the recall election, why is the President’s trip only
coming now, just one day before polls close?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Well, as you — as you all know, one of the reasons the
President is coming out here: He’s not just — he’s not just going to —
you know, he’s not just going to California, he’s also going to be —
he’s also going to go to the Caldor fire, which is a top priority for
the federal and California firefighting officials. It’s burned through
roughly 218,000 acres, and nearly 4,000 wildland firefighters are
responding to the Caldor fire.

So the good news is the fire is 65 percent contained, and some of the
evacuation orders have been downgraded to warnings.

And we also have the Dixie — the Dixie fire has burned approximately
953,696 acres with 62 percent containment, and more than 4,800 wildland
firefighters are deployed.

And the Monument fire has also burned approximately 207,000 acres with
43 percent containment, and nearly 1,500 personnel are assigned.

So, elevated fire conditions are forecast today. Roughly 22,500 wildland
firefighters are battling blazes right now.

And we do — and we do continue to monitor the 60 large uncontained fires
that are burning across — that are burning across parts of the country.
So that’s also incredibly important and will be part of our trip and
what we’ll see.

You know, I’ll leave all of the speculation and — about — about — you
know, about our visit, and — with Governor Newsom, and so I’m not going
to go into speculation about anything further than that.  
As you know, we endorsed the governor — the Vice President and the
President — and I’ll leave it there.

Q  But couldn’t this have had more of an impact on that election if the
President was to do this weeks ago rather than just today?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, on the — like I said, he’s going to go today.
He’s going to go to Sacramento. He’s going to go to Idaho first — Boise,
Idaho — as you know, to the — to go to see the wildfire center to see
exactly — to assess and be given a tour about how — what’s going on with
these extreme temperatures, these wildfires that are now yearlong. And
then he’s going to go to Sacramento, and then he’s going to go to Long
Beach with Governor Newsom. And then tomorrow, he’s going to go to
Denver, Colorado.  
  
This is what the President — you know, the President of the United
States do: They — they do several things at the same time. But I’m not
going to go into any reasoning why he’s going now instead of two, three
weeks ago.  
  
Q  Karine, you released some documents related to Saudi Arabia and the
9/11 events. Have you made any judgment on whether the Saudi government
might have been involved in some of the plotting involved in 9/11?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Thank you for your question, Steve. I’ll say this, just
to give everybody a little bit background: So, the President made a
commitment to ensuring the maximum degree of transparency under the law
and to assist these families in their work to seek full accountability
regarding the declassification of documents on September 11, 2001
terrorist attacks on America.  
  
One important way he has honored that commitment is by issuing an
executive order requiring the Department of Justice to undertake a
declassification review of documents from the Federal Bureau of
Investigations September 11th investigations and requiring intelligence
agencies to undertake similar declassification reviews of information
they originated.  
  
As those reviews are completed, documents will be released publicly with
the minimum possible redactions. The executive order sets clear
deadlines for the release of the documents in four categories.  
  
The first category consists of a particular FBI investigative report
from the — 2016 that the 9/11 families have identified as high priority.
It was released on Saturday.

The next category of documents must be released within 60 days from the
<s>insurance</s> \[issuance\] of the executive order, which was
September 3rd. The third category within 120 days, and the fourth
category within 180 days.  
  
Information should not remain classified when the public’s interest in
disclosure outweighs any damage to the national security that might
reasonably be expected from disclosure.  
  
We must never forget the ending pain — the enduring pain of the families
and loved ones of the two hundred — 2,977 innocent people who were
killed during the worst terrorist attack on America in our history. For
them, it was not only a national and international tragedy; it was a
personal devastation.  
  
For 20 years — for 20 years, children have grown up without parents, and
parents have suffered without children; husbands and wives have had to
find a way forward without their parents in life; brothers and sisters,
uncles and aunts, loved ones and friends have celebrated 20 years of
birthdays, family gatherings, and also looking at an empty chair at home
with a hole in their heart.  
  
Our hearts are with the 9/11 survivors and families who are suffering.
Members of the community will continue to have an open door at the top
levels of the administration. That’s all I have on that.  
  
Q  Karine, does the administration believe that the Ways and Means
proposal goes far enough in taxing the wealthy, as the President had
hoped?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, as it — with the Ways and Means — look, since the
campaign, President Biden outlined three basic principles for reforming
the tax code. One was the middle class and working Americans already
paying enough. And so that’s why the Build Back Better plan lowers taxes
for over 50 million families through the Child Tax Cred- — Tax Credit,
Earned Income Tax Credit, and dependent tax credits.  
  
Two, we need to level the playing field for working families and small
businesses so that profitable companies don’t pay a lower tax bill than
nurse — than a nurse or a teacher. And we’ll do that in part by
repealing the Trump tax cuts for the wealthiest households and most —
and most profitable corporations.  
  
And so, three — three, the President will not raise taxes on anyone
earning less than $400,000 per year.  
  
That’s the basic goal. And the Ways and Means proposal are critical
steps toward accompanying that. So, we look forward to continue to work
with our partners in Congress to reform the tax code so that the
highest-income Americans and richest corporations pay their fair
share.  
  
And so that’s — it’s a first — we see that as a first step.  
  
Q  And one more legislative question, Karine. There’s a report out that
the President has told Senator — Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer
and Speaker Pelosi that he’s ready to push for filibuster reform in
order to get voting rights passed. Is that accurate?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, as you know, Mario, we keep those personal
conversations with congressional leadership private. That is something
that we have said throughout these past several months.  
  
Right now, the goal on voting rights legislation is for the Senate — for
the Senate group working on this to come together and see if they can
produce a compromise. The President is hopeful that they can — that this
group can come together and do that. If they can do that, then they need
to go line up the votes.  
  
And so, passing the bill is a must-do piece of business for our
democracy. We must pass a bill to protect our democracy.  
  
So, as for the filibuster, when or if the President has something to say
about it, you will hear it directly from him.  
  
But just — I just wanted to add, you know, we’ve been very clear we’re
not just waiting for the legislation; we’ve done numerous — numerous
amount of policies through the federal government, through the power of
the White House to make sure that we’re doing everything that we can to
make it easier for people to vote, because this is so essential and so
critical.  
  
And so — and also, as you know, the Vice President has been leading this
effort and has had several meetings on this on ways to really engage and
make sure that we protect the right to vote.  
  
Q  Karine, you just said that the Ways and Means proposal sort of — you
signaled some acceptance with that. That would suggest that the
President is also willing to move off the $3.5 trillion to appease other
Democrats, including Senator Manchin. Is that — isn’t that not true?  
  
Q  No, that is — I said — what I said about the $3.5 trillion is: I’m
not willing to negotiate from that. The most important thing is, as I
mentioned, this is the President’s Build Back Better agenda, which he
has talked about for some time, making sure that middle-class families
get a historic tax cut, making sure that we make healthcare more
affordable, making sure that we make childcare more affordable. And so,
that is the focus that the President is going to continue to work with
Congress on.  
  
And so, he’s not going — I’m not going to negotiate from here, as we
have said over and over again. And so, we’re going to let the process go
through — the process — the process goes through, as it does, in
Congress on the Hill.  
  
Q  Secondly, is the White House concerned about some of the flare-up in
Gaza? There’s some — there’s some renewed fighting there. And what is
the White House — is the President going to make any calls on that front
to —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I don’t have any calls to predict right — to — I don’t
have any calls to provide right now. I’m happy to go back and talk to
the NSC team and to see if we have anything further to share on that. I
don’t have anything for you on that.  
  
Q  Aside from calls, does the White House have any — any statements or
—  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE: No, not at this time.  
  
Q  Karine, this weekend, Justice Breyer was asked about expanding the
Court, and he said that if it were to happen, people would lose trust in
the Court. One, what’s the administration’s response to that? And two,
how much stock does the President take in his existing justices’ opinion
in that matter?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, I’ll just say this — and I’ll leave it — I’ll leave
it as this. You know — and we’ve talked about this many times, and so,
just to — just to kind of lay this out again for you all: You know,
earlier this year the President issued an executive order forming the
Presidential Commission on the Supreme Court of the United States. The
Commission will provide an analysis of the principal arguments for and
against Supreme Court reform. The Commission is composed of a diverse
group and a spectrum of views. It includes legal and other scholars,
former federal judges, and proponents of the reform of democratic
institution and of the administration of justice.  
  
The expertise represented on the Commission includes constitutional law,
history, and political science. And in hearings and commitments it has
heard from others with relevant topics, experience, and expertise —
including practitioners who have appeared before the Court, and,
importantly, views from members of the public — the Commission is
examining many questions regarding the Court, not just the number of
justices, but a spectrum of issues. The President will wait for that
process to complete and for their report before making any decisions.  
  
So, this is just the beginning. This is — you know, this — there’s many
things that they’re looking at. There are 30 members of this Court. As I
mentioned, it’s very diverse; you have conservative voices, you have
progressive voices. And the President asked the Commission to put this
commission together because he wanted to hear from a diverse group of
voices again to come together and give him some suggestions on how to
move forward.  
  
Q  Can you talk a little bit about what we’ll hear from the President
tonight in California? Democrats have tried to make this recall sort of
a referendum on Trumpism, and I’m wondering if the message from the
President tonight will be a preview of what we’ll hear from Democrats in
the midterms.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, as you can imagine, I can’t speak for — about that
from here, so I am going to just leave it as that. You’ll — you guys
will hear directly from the President himself later tonight.  
  
Q  Well, is that referendum on Trumpism a message that the White House
sees as sort of potent, heading into the next election year?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE: As you know, Alex, our focus is really making sure that
we’re doing the work of the people. That’s what the President has said.
And the President says himself he’s the President for all, for everyone
— for people who have voted for him and didn’t vote for him. So that is
the most important thing.  
  
I mean, you all were asking me — we were talking about Build Back Better
agenda. You know, we’re about to go to Idaho — Boise, Idaho, as you all
know. We’re about to go to Sacramento. One of the things that the Build
Back Better agenda will also kind of address is that climate — the
climate change issue. That’s real. What we’re seeing, as I mentioned in
my opening, is we’re in code red right now. So that’s — that’s also
going to be the focus of the President during this trip.  
  
Q  A couple of questions on the — going back to the FBI documents: Is
there any sense from the White House that you can give? I know some of
the 9/11 families have suggested they see a link now between Saudi
Arabia and the hijackers. Is there any additional response from the
President about that link specifically between Saudi Arabia?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So I’ll just say the documents are all — are — are all
from the FBI’s investigations, as you all know, of the 9/11 attacks and
related investigations. And I would send you their way for anything
further. I don’t have anything else to add.  
  
Q  I wanted to ask also just about the hearings this afternoon, with
Secretary Blinken being on the Hill, about Afghanistan. Is there
anything in particular that the White House and the administration wants
to have come across in that? How concerned are you about him being put —
I know some Republicans are eager to, you know, make this into a big
show.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Well, thank you for the question. So, Secretary
Blinken, as you just mentioned, Asma, is going to have an opportunity to
speak to this — to this later this afternoon — right? — what’s — what’s
— in the hearing. And I’ll let him directly respond to any question
members plan to ask him on anything specific on the hearing.  
  
But what you can expect from the Secretary to detail is the situation we
inherited in Afghanistan after the previous president signed a deal with
the Taliban that temporarily halted attacks but released 5,000 of their
fighters onto the battlefield and committed the U.S. to withdrawing this
spring.  
  
And you can expect that he’ll detail the choice that faced the
administration: whether we should leave Afghanistan after achieving our
objectives at the cost of 20 years, $2 trillion in spending, and over
2,400 service members lost, or whether we should have re-escalated our
presence there and put more soldiers in harm’s way.  
  
He’ll also talk about the heroic work that’s been done by State
Department personnel, the armed forces, and across the U.S. government
to execute on that withdrawal, including evacuating U.S. citizens and
personnel throughout the spring and the summer as well, speeding up our
issuance of Special Immigrant Visas tenfold as we drew down the process,
all before one of the biggest airlifts in history with two hundred and —
124,000 people evacuated to safety.  
  
And the Secretary will talk about our path forward in Afghanistan,
especially our ongoing efforts to help any remaining Americans and
Afghans if they choose to leave — any Americ- — any Americans who want
to leave, if they choose to leave, in Afghanistan — in Afghanistan, if
they want to leave, as well; in addition to our Afghanistan allies, as
we did last week, through two chartered flights that departed Kabul and
evacuations overland.  
  
We’re committed to continuing to work closely with Congress on
Afghanistan matters, including with today and tomorrow’s hearings.  
  
Q  Are those chartered flights still continuing? I know there was a
measles outbreak that halted that.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, those flights are still — are still being halted,
just out of abundance of caution. As you all know, Jen spoke about this
— Jen spoke about this yesterday — not yesterday — on Friday. Let me see
if I have (inaudible) for you here about the measles.  
  
And so, the Operation Allies Welcome flights into the United States
remain paused at the request of the CDC for at least seven additional
days — again, out of abundance of caution — because of recent diagnosed
cases of measles among Afghans who recently arrived in the U.S.  
  
Those individuals were being housed separately in accordance with public
health guidance — guidelines, and the CDC has begun full contact
tracing. All arriving Afghans are currently required to be vaccinated
for measles as a condition of their humanitarian payrole \[sic\] —
parole. And critical immunizations, including MMR, are being
administered for Afghans at safe havens on military bases in the United
States.  
  
We will soon begin vaccinating Afghans for MMR while they are still
overseas. So, that’s the update there.  
  
Q  Can I ask you: So, seven days from when they were paused or seven
days from today they are paused?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I can get the more specifics for you. It just says the
— for at least seven days — additional days. So, I’m assuming additional
days from when —  
  
Q  From when they were initially paused.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah. That’s what it sounds like to me, but I’m happy
to go back and get more specifics for you.  
  
Q  Karine, back on North Korea: Are you going to need to engage them
diplomatically at some point?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE: North Korea?  
  
Q  Yes.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, you know, our position hasn’t — has not changed
when it comes to North Korea. We remain prepared to engage in diplomacy
with DPRK toward our objective of a complete denuclearization of the
Korean Peninsula. So that hasn’t changed.  
  
Our policy calls for our calabrat- — calibrated, practical approach that
is open to and will explore diplomacy with DPRK to make practical
progress that increases the security of the United States, our allies,
our deployed forces. Our offer remains to meet anywhere, anytime without
preconditions. So, that hasn’t changed — our diplomatic efforts.  
  
Q  Karine, I know you said that the President, you know, is speaking to
Senator Manchin and you don’t want to go into those conversations, but
what’s the strategy for also House progressives right now, you know, on
the Hill? Is the White House dispatching officials this week, given the
crucial time, to speak to those members? Is there — is it just relying
on, you know, Speaker Pelosi? What’s the strategy there?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Well, Zolan, as you know — thank you for the question.
As you know, for the past several months, the President and White House
officials has been engaged with members on the Hills \[sic\], with their
— on the Hill, with their staffers. So, that has continued over the past
several weeks, as well.  
  
And so, that’s going to continue as we — as we move forward. And so,
that doesn’t — that doesn’t end. We’ve been very engaged with the Hill,
with, like you mentioned, Speaker Pelosi, Chuck Schumer, and everyone
that’s been kind of all-hands-on-deck, making this happen (inaudible).  
  
Q  Are we going to see that ramp up in the days ahead, though? I mean,
can we expect certain officials to go there?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I mean, I would say this: Like, we are — we are
dedicated and committed to making sure that the President’s Build Back
agenda and this — the bipartisan infrastructure deal moves forward.  
  
As the President has said, he wants to sign both — both pieces of those
legislation because it’s important to the American people.  
  
Q  Back on Afghanistan and on Capitol Hill: The White House has said,
since this started, that there’ll be time for reflection on what perhaps
went wrong. That’s what a lot of Republicans are going to be focusing on
today. Does the White House — is the administration now, with some time
to reflect on this, concede that anything went wrong in the end there?
Because people aren’t really criticizing the withdrawal, they’re
criticizing execution of that.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Well, like I said, I’m going to let Secretary Blinken
speak to that. You just mentioned that Republicans are focused on that.
There’s a hearing happening today and tomorrow. Secretary Blinken will
speak to that, I’m sure, so I’ll let him just kind of address those
questions directly with the hearing committee.  
  
Q  Okay. To be clear, it’s not just Republicans; there are Democrats, as
you know. So I’m kind of asking the White House’s response.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah. And there’ll be — and they’ll be — and there’ll
be Democrats and Republicans at the hearing. I’ll let Secretary Blinken
speak to that though.  
  
Q  Did you all have any response to or thoughts about President Bush’s
speech on Saturday in which he said “violent extremists” overseas and at
home “are children of the same foul spirit”?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Well, as you know, that’s something that we have — you
know, we’ve talked about: domestic extremists, extremism here in the
country. The President has talked about that many times in the past
several months, in the past year about that specifically.  
  
Look, you know, I think one of the things that was really important
about September 11th is — is that there — is that — is what came out of
that is that sense of unity and coming together, which the President has
talked about, which we heard from former President George Bush, and you
saw former Presidents — President Obama, President Clinton — come
together with Secretary Clinton and Mrs. Obama to show that unity. And I
think that’s really important.  
  
You hear stories often about how people on that day felt. You can feel
how folks came together to help each other out and to be there for one
another, and I think that is really important as we remember those
nearly 3,000 lives that were lost on that day.  
  
Q  Karine, you know that the President, during his call with President
Xi of China last week, that climate change was brought up as an issue.
Has the White House been given any assurances on any potential
collaboration? Are they committing to any updates on the Belt and Road
Initiative? Are there any other updates you can give us from that
call?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, I don’t — honestly, Zolan, I don’t have anything
more from the readout that we put out to say about that particular
conversation.  
  
As you can imagine, climate change — as I said, we’re going out to the
West Coast to see how the effects of these wildfires, how they become
year- — yearlong. And so this is something that the President really
truly cares about domestically and also working with his international
partners, but I don’t have anything more to read out from — from that
call that he had with President Xi.  
  
Q  Jen said the other day at the briefing also that the President, on
that call, brought up a lack of collaboration when it comes to
investigating the origin of COVID as well. So, is there — what we didn’t
get in the briefing was any response from China when the President
brought that up.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I don’t — I don’t have much more to say than what Jen
has shared and what we put out in the readout. But I understand your
question and appreciate the question.  
  
Q  There’s a — there’s a rally being planned for Washington on Saturday
of supporters of President Trump who continue to raise questions about
the election. How concerned, if at all, is the White House about any
sort of violence or disruptions caused by that?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Well, clearly, that is something that we do not want to
see. You know, we want people to come in — to come in and, if you’re
going to protest, protest peacefully.  
  
But just to go back on, you know, January 6th — because this is what
this brings up for so many people — you know, the President has been
very clear with the events of January 6th that they were an
unprecedented assault on our democracy. And, you know — and so, he
believes that we got to make sure that there’s a full investigation on
that.  
  
But if people come together, they should come together peacefully. You
know, people have the right to protest, but we should make sure that
it’s peaceful.  
  
I don’t have anything more.  
  
Q  Thank you.  
  
1:07 P.M. EDT
