---
tags: press-briefings
date: '2021-09-10'
modified_time: 2021-09-10 19:10:23-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/09/10/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-september-10-2021/
published_time: 2021-09-10 19:30:00-04:00
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Jen\_Psaki, September 10,\_2021"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

3:02 P.M. EDT  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Hi, everyone.  Thank you for your patience.  I know you’re
all thrilled to be sitting here at 3:00 on a Friday afternoon, but here
we are together.  
  
Okay, so I have two items for all of you at the top.  Today, the White
House Competition Council, which includes eight Cabinet Secretaries and
the Chairs of seven independent agencies,  held its inaugural meeting
here in the Roosevelt Room of the White House.  
  
The Council’s first meeting focused on the actions agencies have already
taken to promote competition and help lower costs for American families
in just the two months since the President issued the competition
executive order.  The members of the Competition Council have met every
deadline in the executive order so far and delivered even more than what
was required ahead of schedule.   
  
The agencies’ actions cover a broad range of industries and are aimed at
reducing the prices people pay when they shop at the grocery store, when
they travel to visit their loved ones, when they’re choosing an Internet
plan, and when they purchase the prescription drugs they need.    
  
During the meeting, several agencies, including HHS, DOT, USDA, DOJ, and
FTC — and the FTC, briefed the other councilmembers on the important
work they’ve done.   
  
This includes a major effort by the Department of Transportation to get
refunds for thousands of travelers whose flights were cancelled due to
COVID-19.  DOT published a new report highlighting how it is helping
secure refunds for thousands of those passengers, including by
investigating the refund practices of 18 airlines, filing a formal
complaint against Air Canada for refund delays, and getting 9 airlines
to change their refund policies so that passengers can get refunded more
quickly.  
  
This is just the beginning; obviously more work ahead.  
  
A quick preview of the week ahead:  
  
You know a lot of this already, but tomorrow, the President and First
Lady will honor and memorialize the lives lost with travel to all three
sites of the 9/11 attacks, visiting New York City; Shanksville,
Pennsylvania; and the Pentagon.   
  
On Monday, the President will travel to Boise, Idaho, where he will
visit the National Interagency Fire Center.  He will also head to
Sacramento, California, to survey wildfire damage that has affected the
region.  Then the President will head to Long Beach, California, to
participate in an event with Governor Gavin Newsom.   
  
On Tuesday, he will travel to Denver, Colorado, to participate in a
Build Back Better infrastructure event.  We’ll have more details, I
expect, over the coming days.  More to come in the schedule for the week
ahead.   
  
With that, Alex, go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  I was hoping you could comment on some new reporting
from my colleague that health concerns have halted U.S.-bound flights of
Afghan evacuees from two key countries.  What was behind that?  Is it
COVID related?  Do you know how many Afghan refugees are affected?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Let me give you the information we have at this
point.  Operation All- — or I have, I should say, at this point. 
Operation Allies Welcome flights into the United States have been
temporarily paused at the request of the CDC and out of an abundance of
caution because of four diagnosed cases of measles among Afghans who
recently arrived in the United States.   
  
These individuals are being quarantined in accordance with public health
guidelines, and the CDC has begun full contact tracing.  All arriving
Afghans are currently required to be vaccinated for measles as a
condition of entry into the United States.  And critical immunizations
including <s>MNR</s> \[MMR\] are being administered for Afghans at
military bases in the United States.  And we are also — MMR, sorry.  We
are also exploring measures to vaccinate people while they are still
overseas, so that’s something we’re looking into.  But it was, again, a
step recommended by the CDC out of an abundance of caution, given four
measles cases.  
  
Q    And then I wanted to ask about a change in tone from the
administration when it comes to blaming the unvaccinated.  In July, you
were actually asked about when Governor Ivey said “it’s time to start
blaming” unvaccinated folks.  And you said, quote — you didn’t — you
didn’t think it was, quote, “our role…to place blame,” and it was,
quote, “not the role of the federal government” to blame.  But that’s
pretty much what President Biden did yesterday.  So what has shifted,
you know, in these months that you’ve decided to take a more aggressive
tone?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I don’t think it will surprise you I wouldn’t
characterize his speech in exactly those words or that terminology. 
What you heard the President convey yesterday is the next steps that he
is taking using every lever of government to reduce sicknesses, to
reduce hospitalizations, to protect more people, and save more lives.   
  
I will say that he was channeli- — channeling the frustration that
millions of people across this country are feeling who are vaccinated,
that many governors and elected officials have also shared their
frustration over.   
  
And as is the case — I mean, it is also true that there has also been a
growing frustration among people.  So if you look at the trends over the
last couple of months — you know, we didn’t anticipate, I will say, that
when there was a vaccine approved by — under a Republican President,
that the Republican President took, that there would be such hesitation,
opposition — vehement opposition, in some cases — from so many people of
his own party in this country.  We didn’t anticipate that.   
  
It’s also true that there are many people in this country who weren’t
vaccinated who said, “I’m just waiting for the FDA to approve the
vaccine.”  That happened several weeks ago.  There’s still 80 million
people who are unvaccinated.   
  
And we’ve also seen, during this time, the Delta variant — a
transmissible variant — pose greater risk, put more people in hospitals,
including kids.  
  
So that is why people across the country are frustrated, who are
vaccinated, and certainly the President was channeling that yesterday.  
  
Q    And then one more quick one on OSHA.  Can you talk about
enforcement of the vaccine mandate for businesses?  We’ve already seen a
lot of evidence that OSHA is overtasked.  There was an IG report that
suggested, even though there’s been more OSHA complaints, that there’s
been fewer investigations.  So will the administration be providing more
resources to OSHA to help them to implement this mandate?  How will it
work?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  That’s a great question, Alex.  Obviously, the President
just announced the steps yesterday.  Those be — there’ll be a rulemaking
process that’s going to take a little bit of time.  And certainly,
whatever resources they need, I’m sure the President will want them to
have.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Hi.  Just a follow-up on the enforcement of that.  Realistically, I
mean, how long could it take?  Some experts say it could take months,
and the effects of this new rule, especially for companies, may not be
felt in time for the Delta wave.  Do you have an estimation on how long
it could take?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have an estimation for you today, but there’s
clearly an urgency here, and we want to ensure that rulemaking proceeds
rapidly, as quickly as possible.   
  
I’ll also note, though, that there are a number of companies that have
already put requirements in place: United Airlines, Tyson Foods,
Southwest, Houston Methodist.  The huge hospital system was one of the
biggest ones that did this early.  They had a varying number of days for
implementation, but certainly we’re going to put every resource in the
federal government to get this going rapidly.  
  
We’ve also seen announcements.  Southwest Airlines announced today it
was taking the next steps toward full compliance.  Business Roundtable
issued a statement welcoming the President’s announcement.   
  
Certainly this will be up to a number of private sector companies.  Our
expectation and hope is they will take these steps on their own, and
then we will continue to implement for those who are not complying.  
  
Q    Another question on the Republicans that have come out obviously
criticizing the new requirements.  Nineteen Republican governors have
said that they plan to fight this.  Has the White House been in contact
with any of those governors who have criticized this since the President
made this announcement yesterday?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have any engagements or calls to read out for you. 
We are in touch with a range of governors — Democratic and Republican —
every week, if not more frequently, about a range of topics, including
our efforts to address the pandemic.   
  
We’re also in touch with health officials, up and down the lines in
these states, who are often implementing these plans and policies.  
  
Q    One last question for you.  Just — an appeals  
court just ruled in favor of Governor Ron DeSantis and his
administration, saying the state can now enforce a ban on strict mask
mandates.  Just a response to that.  Are you concerned that this is
going to put more children at risk in that state?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, one of the steps the President announced yesterday is
that we have the funding, the resources, and the intention of having the
back of leaders in school districts — superintendents and others — who
do the right thing by students, and that includes putting in place mask
requirements and other requirements that will keep them safe.  
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Jen, with the 9/11 commemorations, can you tell me what you are
doing to sort of go back and address the huge, massive wave of hate
crimes that we saw against Arab Americans, Muslim Americans, and those
who were taken to be either Arab or Muslim?  So what is the White
House’s plan to address that component of the history of the aftermath
of the attacks?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, I would say that ensuring that we are
advocating for equity, that we are speaking out, that we are taking
actions against hate crimes — verbal abuse of any kind against any group
— is certainly central to what we in this administration and what the
President believes in.   
  
I’d note that the President — you’ll — we’ll be releasing a video from
him shortly later this afternoon, and one of the messages that he’s
going to convey is about the importance of unity.  
  
And as we reflect back on 9/11 and look back to that time 20 years ago —
and the President was talking about this the other day with some of us
and conveying that, you know, he remembers that day, being on the train
on the way to Washington.  The first thing he wanted to do was to go to
the floor of the Capitol and convey to the American people that this is
a time to come together.  And so that will certainly be central to his
message.  
  
It’s not just words — I’m not suggesting that — but that is certainly
what you will hear him say in this video and what we will continue to
convey.   
  
I would say, though, that there will continue to be efforts and actions
by the Department of Justice, by agencies across government to fight
hate crimes, to speak out against them, and to take any actions in our
power to do that.  
  
Q    Can I just follow up on that, just in terms of the unity question? 
So, I tried to ask the President today at the event at the school
whether he’s concerned that his actions — you know, we’ve seen the
backlash from Republicans and others in terms of the vaccination
mandates.   
  
Is he concerned that, you know, what’s happening now is actually driving
the country further apart both in terms of the vaccinations?  There’s a
lot of controversy and divisiveness also about Afghanistan and how that
was handled.  Do you know — are you worried that, at this point, the
country is getting further apart and, you know, all the political
ramifications that has in terms of getting your agenda through on the
Build Back Better?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, there’s a lot unpack — to unpack there, so let me do
my best.   
  
Look, I think the President believes that the reason he made the — took
the steps he did yesterday is because he believes that, beyond politics,
that the role of the President of the United States is to protect people
and save their lives.  
  
It wasn’t that we didn’t anticipate there would be strong reactions —
and there were.  But ultimately, 75 percent of adults who are eligible
in this country are vaccinated.  Eighty million people — or 25 percent
of people who are eligible — are not.   
  
This is not intended to be a dividing issue; it’s intended to actually —
or a political issue.  What his objective is to deliver on what he
thinks he promised the American people, which is to save their lives.   
  
Ultimately, there are a range of components of his agenda that are
moving forward because there’s broad support for them across the country
— whether that is making sure we have more roads, rails, and bridges
that are fixed, or making sure that we do more to save money to reduce
costs for middle-class and working-class families.  
  
So, yes, we do see some loud, vocal opponents of what the President
announced yesterday; that’s not a surprise.  It’s unfortunate, it’s
disappointing, it’s sad, because, ultimately, these steps will save
lives.  But we remain confident in our ability to move the agenda
forward.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  Why include the option to test out in this new Labor
Department rule?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  For businesses you mean?  You mean instead of just requiring
businesses vaccinate?  Ultimately, businesses are going to make those
decisions, and this is a way to implement the OSHA regulations that, by
the way, are part of what has been federal law for more than 50 years. 
That’s why we have the capacity and the ability to do this.  And we
think it’s going to have a huge impact.   
  
Many businesses may choose the option of allowing for testing as an
option.  Many may choose that they should just make vaccines the
requirement.  But it leaves it up to them to make that decision.   
  
Q    And if they do testing, who pays for the testing?  Is it the
business or the employee?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  I would believe it’s probably per business make that
decision, but I would bet that most would be the businesses that pay for
that.  
  
Q    And the President has said, previously, he did not want to mandate
the vaccine.  So can you explain why his thinking on this has changed?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Well, first, I know he said that back in December or
January — so, eight, nine months ago.  And I’ve touched on a couple of
the components that we feel have changed a bit.   
  
One is that we didn’t anticipate, once the vaccine was readily, widely
available and free to the public across the country — anyone who wants a
vaccine has been able to get one for months — that there would be such
opposition to it, especially given it was approved under the former
president, a Republican president.  
  
You know, the second piece of this is that we also anticipated — or
maybe we didn’t anticipate, but we knew that a number of people were
waiting for FDA approval to get the vaccine; that they said that once
it’s approved by the FDA, that’s what I’m really waiting for.  There
were more people who were vaccinated in August than July, but there are
still 80 million people who are not vaccinated.   
  
And the third piece is, again, the vulnerability of children, of
immunocompromised, and others to the transmissible — given the
transmissibility of the Delta variant.  We’ve always been open to and
taking steps that were going to save more lives, protect more people,
and that’s exactly what yesterday’s announcement is a reflection of.  
  
Q    Last question.  Is he now considering mandating vaccinations to fly
domestically?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  We are always looking at more we can do to protect and save
lives.  Obviously, he made a significant and bold announcement
yesterday, so I don’t have anything to preview — predict or preview for
you, but we’ll continue to look for ways to save more lives.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Yeah, thank you, Jen.  So, just to clarify, is the thing that was
preventing the President from issuing these mandates earlier the FDA
approval?  Is that what the White House was waiting for before
announcing these mandates?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  There’s nothing preventing, but I would say, obviously, our
preference would be that the 80 million people who are not vaccinated
got the vaccine when it was available; they didn’t.  So it’s our role
and it’s the President’s role as the President of United States to
continue to take steps to protect the American people and save lives. 
That’s what it’s a reflection of.  
  
Q    The follow-up would be: If these mandates are necessary — given the
risk of the Delta variant, given hospitalizations, and ultimately to
save lives, as you were saying — why not do this earlier?  Why not do it
a month ago when hospitalizations were on the rise?  You know, this has
been a concern for a while.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, this has actually been building on the steps that we
have been taking.  So, we mandated — mandated or testing in the federal
government.  We took, obviously, an additional step yesterday.  There
were a number of private sector companies, many we encouraged, who came
out and put in place mandates and requirements.   
  
This is building on the steps we had taken.  But again, there are a
range of factors that have happened over the last several months, and
it’s only natural that we continue to look for more ways to save lives
given we’re at the point where, clearly, we’re in the most
vaccine-resistant population.    
  
And we’ve also seen — let me just say, we’ve also seen it works.  We’ve
seen companies put in place vaccine requirements.  We’ve seen the impact
of those and the number of people at United Airlines, at other companies
get vaccinated within the timeline that is required.  And, you know,
that’s something that made sense.  
  
Q    And is the administration considering offering federal funding to
states who mandate this at the state level as well?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have anything else to preview or predict for you in
terms of additional next steps.  Obviously, we made a big, bold
announcement yesterday, so I don’t have anything new to preview for
you.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Considering the critical role of the FDA, why has President Biden
not yet nominated an FDA director?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  He’s eager to find the right person to fill that role.  I
would note that, just like any agency, there are hundreds of people who
are career employees — the backbone of the federal government who are
working every day to get the job done.  And these agencies certainly
continue to function at a high level, even without a director, even if
his preference, of course, would be to have a confirmed director in
place.  
  
Q    And on another topic: Does the White House want to see a debt limit
increase in the continuing resolution to fund the government later this
month?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  The White House — we continue to believe that Democrats and
Republicans should do what they have done 80 times, which is to raise
the debt limit, and that is what we are working toward.  But I’m not
going to get into what vehicle it may look like.  That certainly is
something we’ll have discussions with about — with Congress and
congressional leaders and — but we’ll leave that to them.  
  
Go ahead.   
  
Q    Drilling down on the legal implications or the legal underpinnings
of this decision for this OSHA regulation, can you talk about what type
of legal analysis happened before the announcement yesterday?  Was that
done out of the White House, the White House Office of Counsel?  Or was
that done in the Labor Department?  And also, is part of the reason why
there’s a testing opt-out is that because there was a thought that that
would allow this rule to be better able to stand up to legal scrutiny?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  So we don’t actually anticipate — I mean, this is a law. 
So, Congress passed a law in 1970 — the Occupational Safety and Health
Act.  And the reason the Department of Labor and OSHA is able to take
the strong step to protect Americans from COVID is that Congress passed
that law.  Yesterday’s announcement by the Department of Labor is
proceeding under that law.  And the law basically requires the
Department of Labor take action when it finds grave risk to workers. 
And certainly a pandemic that killed more than 600,000 people qualifies
as “grave risk to workers.”   
  
And so, if the Secretary determines workers are in grave danger, he has
an obligation to issue an emergency temporary standard.  That’s exactly
what he did.  
  
Q    And so was that — was there an official analysis done to — or was
it just a decision the Department of Labor said, “Look, this is a
pandemic…” —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, clearly, everything we do we, obviously, review
legally.  Everything — every bill we — every bill we support, every
announc- — policy announcement we make.  But I think that’s pretty
clear.  It doesn’t even take a legal degree to understand that.  
  
Q    And just on another topic: the call with President Xi of China. 
How long was that?  And also, did they discuss meeting in person at the
G20?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  It was about 90 minutes, the call.  The President has spent
a lot of time with President Xi in the past, as he’s talked about
publicly, and he drew on that shared experience in this call.  So the
call was very familiar.  It was candid.  He didn’t avoid areas of
disagreement, but the tone was not lecturing, nor was it condescending;
it was respectful.  It was 90 minutes.   
  
I don’t have anything to preview for you in terms of future meetings.  I
would note that this call was about keeping the channels of
communication open.  And what we’ve seen is that the importance here is
about engaging Xi directly at the leader level, due to the
centralization of power and the power that’s in his hands, hence that
was the importance of the call.  It covered a range of topics.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, Jen.  After the rule is implemented, do you know how
long companies will have to comply?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  That will be, I believe, part of the rulemaking process.  So
I expect we’ll have more on that once that’s completed.  
  
Q    And then, do you have anything to share about how you landed on
employers with 100 employees or more?  Why not the entire workforce?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, it was an assessment made by the Department of Labor
and the Secretary of Labor.  
  
I will say it obviously impacts a huge number of people, so we think it
will have an enormous impact on businesses, on companies, on communities
and the workforce.  But, you know, it was a determination made by the
Labor Department.  
  
Q    And then, can you talk about the enforcement body — how robust
that’s going to be?  Since we’re talking about a huge number of
businesses, how are you going to make sure they’re complying?  And I
know Jeff Zients said the fine could be up to $14,000 per violation. 
What is a “violation”?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Again, these are all good questions.  This has to be
included in the rulemaking process.  It’s about up to — to be specific —
$13,600 per violation.  But this is all a part of what would be
determined in the coming weeks.  
  
Q    And one more, on masks.  Public health experts, including the
former Surgeon General today, Jerome Adams, have said it’s not just
about vaccinations; that —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — that the moves to end masking back in May were premature.  Do you
have a response to that?   
  
And also, in light of that, are there any efforts coming up to talk
about masks again?  Because the last we heard, it was — you know, it was
kind of confusing that you only need to do it sometimes if it’s high
transmissibility, which is now the case, I think, nationwide.  So do you
—  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, the President —  
  
Q    — have a response to —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have a response to the former Surgeon General.  I
will say that, factually, back in May, when we made that announcement,
the Delta variant was about 1 percent of cases.  Obviously, things have
changed since that period of time.  It’s incredibly transmissible.  And
obviously, as we’ve noted, even as vaccines became widely available to
the country, there are still today 80 million people who are not
vaccinated.   
  
So, our responsibility is to continue to take steps that will protect
people and save lives.  And that’s what we’re focused on.  
  
The President did talk about masks yesterday and fines on airplanes, and
what would be required in that regard.  Also masking as it relates to
school certainly protects children and kids from transmissibility and
the spread of the virus.  
  
And what I would say is: We do agree — it’s not just about vaccines,
it’s — (phone sounds).  Whoa.  It’s — (laughter) — okay.  I know what’s
happening.  (Laughs.)  
  
Q    My phone has something to say about that.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Okay.  It’s okay.  No worries.   
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I didn’t know if that was a video game or an alarm, or if we
should evacuate.  
  
Q    I’ve never heard that sound before.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Okay.   
  
Q    (Inaudible.)  Thank you.  (Laughter.)  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Okay, great.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, Jen.  To follow up on the call with President Xi last
night, exactly two weeks ago, when the intel community came up empty
trying to figure out the origins of COVID, the President said “critical
information” about the origins of this pandemic exists in the People’s
Republic of China.  When he talked to the President of China last night,
did he press him like he said he was going to?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I’m not going to go into a list — (alarm sounds) — of
every topic discussed.  That was a very dramatic entry to that answer,
but I’ll start again.   
  
I’m not going to go into every list of every topic discussed.  They did
discuss a range of transnational issues, including COVID-19.  And
understanding its origins is, of course, a primary concern for this
administration.  We continue to support phase two of the WHO’s
investigation in China, and call on China to allow further studies of
COVID-19 origins in China.   
  
I will also note that, you know, one of the topics the presidents also
discussed is the importance of being able to have private discussions
between the two leaders.  This is in contrast to some of the other
interactions we’ve had at lower levels with the PRC.  And so, yes, it
was a topic raised, but I’m not going to go into further detail.  
  
     Q    So we should understand that to mean that the President did
ask him to let international investigators in to get this information
that he says China has?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We’ve conveyed that many times publicly.  I  
think they know that that’s our position and view.  
  
Q    But not publicly.  On this 90-minute phone call, did they talk
about —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Again, Peter, this is a topic that we have said — conveyed
many times, at many levels.  I’m just not going to have more in the call
to read out for you.  
  
Q    Okay.  And then why is it that you’re trying to require anybody
with a job or anybody who goes to school to get the COVID-19 vaccine,
but you’re not requiring that of migrants that continue walking across
the southern border into the country?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, look, our objective is to get as many people
vaccinated across the country as humanly possible.  And so the
President’s announcement yesterday was an effort to empower businesses,
to give businesses the tools to protect their workforces.  That’s
exactly what we did.   
  
But certainly we want everybody to get vaccinated.  And more people who
are vaccinated, whether they are migrants or whether they are workers,
protects more people in the United States.  
  
Q    But it’s a requirement for people at a business with more than 100
people, but it’s not a requirement for migrants at the southern border. 
Why?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  That’s correct.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Jen, we know that, with enforcement, employers who refuse to
implement the vaccine rules are subject to fines.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Mm-hmm.  
  
Q    But what about employees who refuse to comply with the
requirements?  Will federal contractors or the employees be fired?  And
is that the recommendation for private sector employees who don’t
comply?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, again, there needs to be rulemaking.  That will take
place as it relates to the OSHA requirements, and that is the one that
applies to private sector companies of individuals 100 people and
over.  
  
We have our own rules in the federal government, which are applied
through different statutes.  So, yes, you’re right — there will be coun-
— there would be counseling.  We are certainly going to take every step
to convey the safety and the efficacy of these vaccines to federal
employees.  But certainly, vaccination is required for contractors and
employees, and the President was pretty clear about that yesterday.  
  
Q    And so, ultimately, people could get fired (inaudible)?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Correct.  
  
Q    And then on another topic: rapid testing.  In Europe, rapid tests
are cheap, pretty widely available.  In the U.S., it still can be
expensive and hard to find one.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    Why is that?  And why hasn’t administration been able to address
some of those issues before this latest plan rolled out?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say we just started to address some of those
big issues yesterday because we recognized, as you said, that this was a
hindrance for many people.  
  
Now, we did take steps to include funding for testing in the American
Rescue Plan that has been applied in schools and communities across the
country.  
  
But what we’ve seen is an increased interest in rapid tests and at-home
tests, and we’re being responsive to that as well.  
  
And this kind of goes back to the comments of Jerome Adams. I mean,
testing is also a component that probably we don’t talk about enough —
or the world doesn’t talk about enough, because it is important, and
it’s a way to make sure people have — are protected.   
  
We know the demand for rapid tests has more than doubled in recent
weeks, and so we’re also being responsive to that.  So this is a nearly
$2 billion investment in rapid at-home tests — 280 million tests at
home.  We’re also going to send 25 million free at-home rapid tests to
the 1,400 community health centers, and top retailers are going to be
selling them.  So we tried to take a number of steps — bold steps from
the federal government and working with the private sector to make them
more rapidly available.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Jen, what does the White House say to those businesses — some
business groups are expressing this concern that this requirement that
they either have their employees be vaccinated or that they be tested is
ultimately a burden on the businesses?  So, what does the White House
say about that burden?  Because it’s certainly a costly liability some
say.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, the vaccines are free and available to everyone in the
country.  So that shouldn’t be costly or avail– or —  
  
Q    They were given an opt-out.  So, in other words, if they say they
want to do the weekly tests — you couldn’t say earlier who would pay for
that test.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Mm-hmm.  
  
Q    Businesses are saying, “How do we get these tests to our
employees?  What if our employees don’t want to pay for it themselves? 
Do we have to pay for it?  And what does that cost us at the end of the
day?”  Given that they have the right to opt out.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  They have to make that decision themselves.  It’s certainly
more cost-effective to require vaccines.  They may not decide to do
that.  That’s up to them to decide to do.  
  
Q    So, ultimately, the burden is on that business to make that
decision or just swallow the cost?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Correct.  Most of these businesses can absolutely afford
it.  And what we’re talking about here is saving people’s lives and
protecting them.  
  
I’d also say there are a number of companies that have already applied
this — have already put requirements in place. It makes for safer
workplaces; it makes people want to come back to the workplace; it makes
for healthier and happier employees who know that they are safe when
they go to work.  And that’s a cost as well.  
  
Q    Obviously, testing is cheaper for a place like United. They can
afford it more easily than a business that’s only 100 people big. 
That’s why I ask.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I understand.  
  
Q    Can I ask about —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  But again, vaccines: free, available everywhere in the
country.  Requiring that is a way — is — is not — is free and shouldn’t
cost businesses any money.  
  
Q    Understood.  Religious exemptions right now — can you give us a
better understanding?  How does that — how will that work?  I know how
you said there’ll be religious exemptions that would exist for federal
workers and the like.  How about for mega churches, other religious
organizations in this country that have more than 100 employees?  What
right do they have under these yet-to-be-created rules?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Again, the rules are being created, but we have obviously
had religious exemptions even for federal employees.  I’m sure that will
be a factor taken into consideration.  But I don’t — I can’t make a
prediction of what the final rules will look like.  
  
Q    But the intention is, I presume, that if you’re a religious
organization, you say, “Hey, we don’t want to have to do this in our
organization” —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Again, this is going to be for OSHA to determine as they’re
doing the rulemaking, and Department of Labor, so I will not get ahead
of that process.  
  
Q    Let me ask you about 9/11, if I can.  The President — you said his
remarks are going to be coming out in some form — his reflections will
be coming out in some form over the course of this day.  Can you sort of
pull back the curtain a bit for us about his preparations in advance of
tomorrow as best you can?  What conversations, phone calls he’s had with
those who may have lost loved ones, with past presidents, with foreign
leaders, just as he prepares for his reflections?   
  
And then, separately, why will he not be delivering remarks of some kind
tomorrow?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say first, on the second question, the
President felt it was important to visit each of these three sites to
commemorate the lives lost, the sacrifices made on a day that has
impacted millions of people across the country but certainly many people
in those communities.  
  
In order to do that, he’s attending a ceremony where several other
former presidents and prominent officials are going to be hearing the
names of the — those lives that were lost around that period of time —
is in a moment where there’s a lengthy speaking program.  And then he’s
going to be laying wreaths to commemorate the lives and honor those
whose lives have lost.   
  
We’re releasing the video today because we want you to hear from him,
and he wants the American people to hear from him directly on what 9/11
means to him 20 years later, and so that’s why we’re doing it in advance
of his trip tomorrow.  
  
Q    And then, to the first part of that question: For conversations
he’s had with — has he had conversations with Delawareans, with other
Americans who lost loved ones?  What — what has — what have these days
leading up to 9/11 looked like for him as he’s prepared for these
reflections?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I’m happy to check if there’s been any conversations that
fall into that category.  Absolutely.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    So we’ve reported that some members of the Cabinet will be meeting
to discuss trade issues, including a new probe on allegedly illegal
subsidies.  Can you confirm that?  And how does that meeting dovetail
with the call with Xi last night, in which the two leaders talked about
preventing competition from turning into conflict?  Would a new trade
probe be an escalation of hostilities?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, I would say that certainly economic topics are
— were a part of the discussion last night, but they were not a major
part of the 90-minute call that the President had with President Xi. 
And it wasn’t a call that was intended to produce final outcomes or
deliver final outcomes.  
  
There are — I can’t even tell you how many meetings among high-level
policy officials and Cabinet members on a daily basis.  We typically
don’t confirm those, but that is not out of the normal, nor is it an
indication of anything other than people in the government doing their
work.  
  
Q    And can I ask about debt ceiling?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  
  
Q    Democrats in Congress can raise the debt ceiling without any votes
from Republicans.  Has the President asked them to do that, and, if not,
why not?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  The President believes that Democrats and Republicans in
Congress should do what they’ve done 80 times in the past and raise the
debt ceiling.  It shouldn’t be a political issue.  It’s something that
is about the full faith and — the faith and credit of the United States
government; something that most of them — most of the Republicans voted
to do three times under the last administration, even after $2 trillion
in tax cuts that certainly added to the debt, did not — did not subtract
from the debt, were passed by the same members.  So that continues to be
his call.  
  
Q    And just one more question on Afghans.  There are 30,000 Afghans at
foreign bases in third countries with varying immigration status.  Has
the administration advised or pressured any of those refugees to accept
asylum in countries other than the U.S.?  If they want to relocate here
and aren’t disqualified for visa programs, will they be able to?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, there is a process that has been underway for some
time.  We’re very grateful to these countries who have been — served as
“lily pads,” as we’ve called them, to have refugees who are trying to
leave Afghanistan and we couldn’t hesitate in getting these individuals
who had fought by our side and played a pivotal role over the last 20
years.  
  
Some of them — many of them will come to the United States.  Some of
them will go to other third countries.  That is part of the process.  I
don’t think that’s a pressure, but that’s always been part of the plan
that we’ve discussed.  There will be — many of them will be eligible for
programs in the United States.  Some of them may end up in other
countries, and that’s always been part of the plan.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  A couple of questions on the President’s announcement
yesterday.  Business owners are already voicing concerns they aren’t
able to find applicants for jobs.  There are a record 10.9 million job
openings.  Is the administration at all concerned that this new vaccine
mandate that applies to businesses with 100 or more employees will cause
further staffing shortages for businesses?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, look, I think, one, there are a number of businesses
across the country who have already applied these requirements.  And
they could be a model, some of them.  I understand you may be asking
about smaller businesses, but it’s for employees of 100 or more.  
  
And certainly, when the President made the decision to put in place
these policies and to announce them yesterday, he made it based on his
number-one objective, which is to protect people in this country and
save more lives.  
  
And he also announced yesterday additional assistance for small
businesses.  That was a part of his plan to ensure they have the
assistance they need.  But 75 percent of people in this country have
been vaccinated — who are eligible have been vaccinated; 25 percent have
not.  
  
So, that’s what our target is.  That’s what our objective is.  No, our
goal is not to place undue burden; our goal is to save lives — and
that’s what we hope this will do.  
  
Q    And then to go off a colleague’s earlier question —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — about rapid tests, which the President mentioned yesterday.  He’s
going to be using the Defense Production Act to add —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — roughly 280 million of these have rapid at-home tests.  But, of
course, that’s only — or at least kits — that’s only less than one kit
per person in the country.  So what else can be done to ramp up those
tests and to bring down the potentially prohibitive costs of these tests
if they’re going to be used on a regular basis for (inaudible)?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, one of the steps we took was to work with big private
sector retailers to make these tests available.  And certainly that’s —
that is planned for the next three months, where we expect there will be
a great need.  But we will continue to look, as there are needs, to make
sure people in the country have the resources they need.  This is not
the end, but this was certainly a significant announcement yesterday.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Sure.  And is there a goal for how many at-home rapid tests should
be available, beyond the 280 million?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Again, I think announcing the two — the numbers we had
yesterday is pretty significant.  I don’t have anything more to preview
for you about additional tests.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, Jen.  On China, maybe — I understand you don’t want to
provide too many details about the phone calls, but were human rights
part of the conversation?  And also, did the President get the
impression that China is willing to play an active role at the upcoming
COP summit about climate?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  I’m not going to speak for what their intentions are at the
COP summit.  Of course, I would note that, of course, climate around —
as well as a number of topics were discussed, and the COP summit is the
next big moment for the international community on that front.  And
certainly, human rights were a part of the discussion, and the President
did raise them, as he always does in these engagements.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    A question about wildfires.  The President is traveling to Idaho
and California to survey wildfire damage.  When he had this meeting with
the western governors earlier this year, Governor Newsom and others
voiced frustration with the U.S. Forest Service, accused them of having
a wait-and-see culture.  Is the President announcing any policy changes,
any new developments on strategy to wildfires when he’s out there?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  You’ll have to wait and see.   
  
Q    And a question on just the backlash from a state attorneys
general.  Can you expand on why the 1970 law does cover specifically
these requirements for businesses?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Let me try it again.  So, the 1970 law, which has now
been in place — to do the math for all of you — for 51 years — it’s a
law that requi- — let me to give you the exact statement of it here.   
  
It requires the Department of Labor to take action when it finds grave
risk to workers.  And certainly, a pandemic that has killed more than
600,000 people, where 25 percent of eligible people who are — have not
yet been vaccinated poses a grave risk.   
  
And so this — what Department of Labor was proceeding under that duly
enacted law.  It actually determines — the Secretary is required — has
an obligation, I should say — to issue an emergency temporary standard
when it meets that bar.   
  
So that is the background on that, or the information on that.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Will the administration consider revisiting federal emergency
unemployment benefits as Delta continues to impact the job market?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, we’ve talked about this a little bit in here in the
past.  And just to note: About half of the states that had been
implementing these benefits ended the benefits several months ago.  So
we’re really talking about 26 states.  In those 26 states, the
unemployment rate is between 3 and 7 percent — quite a range.  So the
point is they have different needs.   
  
And what we’ve been doing is been working with leaders in these states,
governors, other leaders to figure out how funding from the American
Rescue Plan, state and local funding, and other funding can be used to
apply for specific categories of benefits should they feel those
benefits are needed.  
  
But we haven’t seen actually the issue in the economy, which still has
issues that we’re still recovering from, to be an employment issue. 
There are other issues that we’re working to address in the economy.  
  
Q    But in the states — in the majority of the states that did stop the
aid early, there wasn’t any sign that it actually impacted employment
rates.  So, I mean, is there no additional steps that the White House
wants to take?  Do they want to see Congress take action on that?  Or —
I mean, how else do you expect to maybe help governors who — or push
governors who decide that they don’t want to use that aid that’s been
provided federally for unemployment benefits?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  That is aid that’s available, and as governors decide — as
we work with governors to determine how to help people in the states who
still need help — which is imperative and one of the reasons why the
American Rescue Plan was designed in the way it was — was so that the
Child Tax Credit and other programs are going out in the months ahead
and into next year.  
  
So the point is that there is state and local funding that can be used. 
We’re working with these states to implement that funding.  If your
unemployment rate is 3 percent, you have different needs than if your
unemployment rate is 7 or 8 percent.  So that’s the point I was making
as it relates to how we apply these programs.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    The administration obviously believes that more requirements are
necessary to get more people vaccinated.  But of the 80 million people
who have not yet gotten their first shot, what amount does the
administration assess are still persuadable?  And what amount do you
think actually need the force of government to make them do it?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well that’s a hard — that’s a hard question to assess from
here.  
  
Q    Obviously, it’s a (inaudible) — it’s a range.  But —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I will say, clearly, we felt that putting in place
additional steps and requirements was essential to get more of the 80
million people vaccinated.  I can’t tell you how many of them — it’s not
really about being persuadable if it’s going to be a requirement at many
workplaces across the country.  
  
Q    Yeah.  So, most people at this point need a requirement.  There’s
not a lot of people left to persuade at this point.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, at this point — it’s really hard to give a number on
that, right?  And I don’t want to irresponsibly guess at that from
here.  But at this point, the vaccines have been widely available across
the country for months — in communities across the country for months. 
We have mobile clinics.  We have — we’ve done it in many different ways
in communities.  So we’re assessing that some of these requirements are
the next lever needed to get more people vaccinated and ultimately
protect more people in the country.  
  
Q    And just to clarify something you said earlier: The President is
not making remarks tomorrow.  He’s releasing a video ahead of time — is
what you’re saying.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Correct.  
  
Q    So he’s not giving a speech at any of the three locations?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Right.  Exactly.  
  
Patsy, go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, Jen.  A couple of foreign policy questions.  The first
one: The Taliban and the Qataris are insisting that flights out of
Afghanistan are no longer evacuations but kind of business as usual for
travelers with documentation.   
  
I’ve noticed that Emily Horne’s statement on the flights that came out
today, as well as yesterday, did also not use the word “evacuation.”  So
can you confirm whether the administration is still considering and
treating these flights out of Afghanistan as evacuations?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We’re considering them people departing who want to depart
Afghanistan.  I’m not sure that the word matters.  
  
Q    Okay.  The second one is on the Israeli Prime Minister who is
calling on the international community to act quickly and immediately
against Iran, following an IAEA report that Tehran has dramatically
increased production of uranium — highly enriched uranium — in recent
months.  Do you have a comment on that?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  I will get you a comment from our national security team.  
  
Q    Okay.  And one last one on Taiwan.  Is the administration seriously
considering a request from Taiwan to change the name of its mission in
Washington from “Taipei Economic and Cultural Representative Office” to
“Taiwan Representative Office”?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I have — I would have to check with our team on this
issue.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Yeah, two questions — one on Afghanistan and one on the
vaccinations, if I could.  On Afghanistan, I’m curious if there’s been
any offers of resignation from anyone in the chain of command or anyone
involved in the decisions with the evacuation.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  No.  
  
Q    So, the President still has confidence in those —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yes.  
  
Q    On the vaccinations: The President talked about the importance of
boosters last night.  The President’s second shot was in January.  If
you follow that logic, eight months afterwards you’re supposed to get
the booster.  That would have been last month for the President.  Has
the President gotten the booster?  Is he going to get the booster? 
When?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  He will.  He has not gotten it yet.  We’ll wait until it’s
widely available, which we expect to be soon.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Jen, I’m hearing that the Bureau of Prisons issued a memo today
telling approximately about 1,000 drug offenders how to apply for
clemency.  Have you — do you have anything on that?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I would certainly point you to the Department of Justice.  I
would say that the President has been clear about his openness to using
clemency powers, but I don’t — I wouldn’t say that’s an assessment of
decisions made — and certainly targeting those toward nonviolent drug
offenders.  But I’d point you to the Department of Justice for any
further details.  
  
Q    A follow-up on the mandates.  Would companies, like Delta, now
having a $200 premium that they’re going to — $200 that they’re going to
add to the insurance premiums, how does the President feel about
companies trying to persuade people to get vaccines by doing that?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, there are a range of ways we’ve recommended companies
try to incentivize people get vaccinated, including mandating them,
including putting in place requirements, and many have taken creative
steps.  So there’s a range of ways to look at.  That’s not one we’ve
advocated for, but obviously different companies will make different
choices.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, Jen.  Not to try to shame any vaccine skeptics — in
Africa, people are looking for vaccine but they can’t find them.  In the
U.S., there’s an abundance of vaccine, but up to 80 million people have
refused to receive them.  And 1,500 people are dying every day.  Would
you say that too much privilege is sending so many Americans to their
early grave?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I’m not sure what your question is.  
  
Q    Is too much privilege sending many people to their early grave?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say, first, that the United States wants to be
an arsenal of vaccine distribution to the global community, and we have
provided, donated more than every other country in the world combined.  
  
We also know — and it is a responsibility of the President to protect
and save lives in the United States as well.  That’s why we announced
the steps that we announced yesterday.  We need to do both.  
  
Q    Yeah.  No — so, I was asking: Is too much privilege killing people
in the U.S.?  Like, there’s so much vaccine available here, but people
are refusing to take them.  While in Africa, people don’t even have
access to vaccine and they want to have them.  Are we too privileged
here to the extent that we are ready to die instead of taking the
vaccine?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think that’s a hard question.  I don’t know that I
have a comment on that from the U.S. government.  I would say that our
objective here is to convey to people — not in a political way, whenever
we can avoid it — that vaccines will save your life; that everybody
should go get one; and they’ll save your neighbors, your friends, your
grandparents.  And that’s our objective.  
  
Q    Can I —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Okay.  I think I got to keep going here.  
  
Q    — ask one last one on China?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Oh, no, I got to keep going.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  Could you confirm that there’s going to be an
in-person Quad Summit in Washington, D.C., on September 24th?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  An in-person — I’m sorry?  
  
Q    Quad Summit.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Oh, sorry.  I couldn’t — the masks are hard sometimes, and
they’re important.  
  
I will have more details.  I don’t have anything to announce at this
point in time.  
  
Q    And was there any mention of Taiwan during the phone call with
President Xi Jinping?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I’m not — I’d have to check, but I don’t have anything on
that in the readout.  
  
Go ahead, Mike.  
  
Q    Jen, obviously Congress has a lot on its plate next week, but we’re
also going to see the beginning of oversight hearings.  Secretary of
State Tony Blinken will be the first up as part of the different
committees looking into the Afghanistan decision and fallout.  What role
is the White House playing in terms of preparations for these hearings? 
And might we expect any White House officials to be part of public
hearings on Capitol Hill?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, we have been cooperating, working with Congress,
briefing them regularly throughout the course of the last several weeks,
and that will continue.  And we’ll certainly continue to provide
officials as appropriate, moving forward.  
  
As it relates to preparations, I’d certainly point you to the State
Department.  
  
Q    And then, we’re still a week away, but there are — Capitol Police
is reinstalling some of the perimeter fencing around the Capitol in
advance of these Justice for J6 protest demonstrations that are
expected.  How closely is the White House monitoring these, not just in
Washington, but across the country?  And have any White House officials
expressed interest or concern about maybe reinstalling some of the
fencing we saw around the White House grounds in January?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, we’re always going to assess what security measures
need to be put in place, but we typically don’t preview them, and I’m
not going to do that from here.  
  
Obviously, the Capitol and leadership in Congress takes their own steps,
and we certainly trust them to make decisions about how to protect the
members of their caucuses.  
  
Shelby.  
  
Q    Thanks.  Just two quick ones for you.  Does the administration
consider this latest vaccine mandate for private sector companies to be
a workaround for the federal government to require vaccines?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Meaning to require them for the American people?  
  
Q    Yeah.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, this is a tool, a step that, again, there’s legal
authority for based on a 50-year old law, and one that we took action on
because the President wanted to use every lever at his disposal to
protect more people and save more lives.   
  
But, no, it’s not — we don’t have the ability to tell every American,
“You have to be vaccinated.”  There’s a means of encouraging it, of
mandating it through certain — through certain pathways, and that’s
exactly what we’ve done.  
  
All right, thanks everyone.  
  
3:51 P.M. EDT
