---
category: press-briefings
date: '2021-09-01'
modified_time: 2021-08-31 23:53:12-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/09/01/background-press-call-by-senior-administration-officials-on-the-presidents-upcoming-meeting-with-president-zelenskyy-of-ukraine/
published_time: 2021-09-01 05:00:00-04:00
title: "Background Press Call by Senior Administration Officials on the President\u2019\
  s Upcoming Meeting with President Zelenskyy of Ukraine"
---
 
2:34 P.M. EDT

NSC SPOKESPERSON:  Hey, everyone.  Thanks for joining us.  So, as the
moderator noted, we’re going to use this call to give you an embargoed
preview of President Zelenskyy’s visit to the White House on Wednesday,
September 1st. 

This call is on background, attributable to “senior administration
officials,” and the contents will be embargoed until 5:00 a.m.
Wednesday, September 1st.  Again, the embargo does not lift tomorrow,
but Wednesday, September 1st at 5:00 a.m.  By joining this call, you’re
agreeing to these ground rules.

Just for awareness, but not for reporting, joining us today is \[senior
administration official\].  And at the end, as the moderator noted,
we’ll open it up for a few questions.

With that, I’ll turn it over to \[senior administration official\].

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks, \[senior administration
official\], and thanks to everybody for joining this afternoon for a
look ahead of President Biden’s meeting with President Zelenskyy. 

As you’re all tracking, Zelenskyy will be here on September 1.  The
message behind our visit is clear: the United States’ commitment to
Ukraine sovereignty, territorial integrity, and Euro-Atlantic
aspirations. 

Our view is that, in the 30 years since Ukraine achieved independence,
our strategic partnership has never been stronger than it is now. 

This visit is going to build on and amplify the sustained engagement of
President Biden and the administration over the last eight months or so
of the administration. 

President Biden has already spoken with President Zelenskyy twice by
phone in April and in June.  That June phone call, of course, came
several weeks before the President met with President Putin in person in
Geneva. 

In May, Secretary Blinken visited Kyiv in one of his first bilateral
visits, as Secretary, to Europe.  And just last week, Energy Secretary
Granholm led a presidential delegation to Kyiv to represent the
administration at the Crimea Platform Summit and celebrations for
Ukraine’s 30th anniversary of independence.

President Zelenskyy, I believe, is arriving in Washington, D.C., this
afternoon, and we’ll let the embassy speak to various engagements that
he has outside of government. 

But tomorrow, he will be holding bilateral meetings with several members
of the Cabinet.  I will let those agencies read out their meetings and
their deliverables, but our expectation is that those will deliver some
very tangible outcomes, including announcements on our strategic
partnership, as well as new agreements on security, energy, and climate
cooperation.

These meetings will then set the stage for the meeting between the two
presidents on Wednesday.  After that meeting, we’ll be releasing a
comprehensive joint statement that articulates our shared values and our
strategic priorities, as well as a list of concrete deliverables
touching on every aspect of our bilateral relationship.  And, in a few
minutes, I will get to an overview of some of those deliverables.

In terms of the format of the meeting, President Biden and President
Zelenskyy will be chairing an expanded bilateral meeting with their key
advisors, and then the two leaders will transition to a one-on-one
conversation, which will give them the space to communicate with one
another more directly. 

In these meetings, I expect President Biden to convey his ironclad
commitment to Ukraine’s security, sovereignty, and Euro-Atlantic
aspirations, as well as to discuss Ukraine’s ongoing reform program,
both in terms of progress that’s already been made and areas where
continued progress is still needed. 

In terms of the agenda for the bilateral relationship, President Biden
is prepared to discuss the full spectrum of policy issues that underline
the bilateral relationship.  And this certainly is a relationship that
he has been following for many years, dating back to his very active
engagement in Ukraine as Vice President. 

On the security side, we look forward to continuing to discuss the
security situation that Ukraine is facing vis-à-vis Russia — continuing
to see acts of Russian aggression in the region.  And the President will
be looking forward to having a more fulsome update from President
Zelenskyy on the current security situation. 

We will also be discussing ways in which the U.S. can continue to
provide security assistance to Ukraine.  We sent a notification up to
Congress last Friday, that was also posted in the Federal Register,
indicating that the U.S. is going to be providing a new $60 million
security assistance package for Ukraine.  That will include additional
Javelin anti-armor systems and other defensive lethal and non-lethal
capabilities.

Thus far, the U.S. has committed $2.5 billion in support of Ukraine
forces since 2014, including more than $400 million this year alone. 

Second, on the reform side, as I mentioned earlier, there’s a
recognition that Ukraine has already made tremendous progress on
governance, rule of law, and anti-corruption reforms since 2014. 

And at the same time, we expect the two leaders to discuss the
comprehensive reform program that President Zelenskyy is continuing to
develop and implement, with an aim to bring the country in line with
Euro-Atlantic principles.  This includes steps to protect the
independence of the anti-corruption institutions, legislation on human
rights, as well as other pending legislation and reforms that the
Ukrainian government is working on. 

Third, in terms of energy, expect the President to continue to discuss
our cooperation to bolster collaboration on shared energy and climate
goals, including through a reinvigorated Strategic Energy and Climate
Dialogue, which will give a strong platform to advance energy security
objectives, enhance economic ties, and achieve ambitious climate
targets. 

This dialogue will also provide the opportunity to expand corporate
governance reform at state-owned energy companies, increase the
attractiveness of Ukraine’s energy industry, and attract the foreign
investment needed to achieve energy independence, decarbonization, as
well as other clean energy goals.

Also, lots of things to discuss in terms of expanding economic
collaboration and, of course, combatting the COVID-19 pandemic, and
other shared priorities.

Let me turn now to some of the key deliverables that we expect to
announce in this joint statement that we will be putting out after the
meeting between the presidents.

First of all, to codify the elevated status of our strategic
partnership, the U.S. and Ukraine will announce the reinvigoration of
the Strategic Partnership Commission.  This commission has not met in
three years, and the charter for the commission was written in 2008. 
So, we are very keen to reinvigorate and revitalize not only the
relationship, but also specifically this Partnership Commission as a
means of doing that.

We’re anticipating a meeting this fall between Secretary of State
Blinken and the Ukrainian Foreign Minister.  And at that meeting, we
expect that they will approve a new charter between our countries that
will set out the parameters for how we can work closely together to meet
these 21st century challenges.

Second, we’re expecting a couple of major deliverables on the defense
side.  First, as I said, President Biden will announce his approval for
a new $60 million security assistance package for Ukraine.  And second,
the Defense Department will be signing a strategic defense framework
that will enhance our cooperation across a range of pressing issues,
including Black Sea security, cyber and intelligence sharing, as well as
continued support for Ukraine as it faces continuing Russian aggression.

This will build on a strategic defense framework that was written in
2016, and we’ll revise and revitalize that, and address new and emerging
challenges since that time.

Moving on to the democracy space: As I mentioned, one of the key themes
for President Biden will be continued discussion with President
Zelenskyy about the reforms that he is undertaking on the governance
front.  We believe strongly that Ukraine can and should enact additional
reforms to strengthen its democracy, and the United States will continue
to support Ukraine’s efforts to do so.

President Zelenskyy has developed an initiative to develop a
transformational reform plan for Ukraine, which is something that we
expect President Zelenskyy to preview with President Biden and then roll
out more fully at the Strategic Partnership Commission this fall.

We’ve already provided Ukraine with nearly $2 billion in development
assistance since 2014.  And we have plans to allocate over $463 million
in assistance this year alone.

Turning to energy, the presidents will announce new initiatives to
tackle the climate crisis and to advance Ukraine’s energy security,
including the launch of a reinvigorated Strategic Energy and Climate
Dialogue that will be led by the Department of Energy.  The aim of this
dialogue is to attract energy security investment through reform, reduce
greenhouse gas emissions, address other climate change initiatives, and
continue to address the impact of Nord Stream 2. 

On the economic side, we’ll use this visit to deepen our already robust
economic partnership.  Our two countries will finalize an MOU on
commercial cooperation, and the Export-Import Bank and the Ministry of
Economy of Ukraine will sign an MOU with an initial amount of $3 billion
in EXIM support.

Turning to COVID, as I mentioned, the United States has stood
shoulder-to-shoulder with President Zelenskyy as he is similarly dealing
with COVID-19.  We’ve already provided $55 million in COVID-related
assistance and donated nearly 2.2 million doses of COVID vaccines to
Ukraine.

We intend to continue providing assistance to Ukraine, including cold
chain storage support and an additional $12.8 million in COVID-related
assistance.

And speaking of humanitarian assistance, we are also continuing to
support the Ukrainians that remain impacted by the crisis with Russia in
in the east, and are pleased to announce that, this year, the U.S.
government will provide an additional $45 million in humanitarian
assistance to help address Ukrainians that remain in need from that.

So, just to wrap up, we believe this meeting comes at a pivotal moment
in the bilateral relationship as we continue to build on ties that bind
our two countries together and really seek to take our strategic
partnership to an elevated level.

I think, as you’ll be able to see from this package of deliverables,
we’ve really tried to look at the relationship in a very holistic way
and to find areas for closer cooperation, as well as to revitalize and
re-strengthen that cooperation across the full range of sectors, from
the political and strategic side to the security side, as well as to the
energy and economic side.

And very much looking forward to the meeting here at the White House. 

So, let me stop there and happy to answer any questions.

Q    Hey, thank you so much for doing this.  I was curious if there was
any update on Ukraine being considered for NATO membership — or at least
support from the United States — of inclusion of Ukraine in NATO.  In
Europe, in Brussels, at the NATO meetings, Biden was asked about this
and he said that Ukraine had to do more to “clean up corruption” to be
considered.  Has he seen progress there?  Has the White House seen
progress there?  Have you seen progress there?  Et cetera.  Thanks.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks very much for the question.  I
would point you to the June 2021 NATO Summit communiqué where the United
States and its Allies reaffirmed the position from the Bucharest Summit,
in terms of supporting “Ukraine’s right to decide its own future and
foreign policy course free from outside interference,” including with
respect to Ukraine’s aspirations to join NATO. 

And as you alluded to in your question, part of the messaging on that
and the action around that is the need for the government of Ukraine to
continue implementing the deep, comprehensive, and timely reforms that
are laid out in its Annual National Program.  And so, I would certainly
expect part of the conversation between the two presidents to be focused
on that.

As part of Ukraine’s current Enhanced Opportunities Partnership, it is
continuing to make progress in terms of improved interoperability.  It
is continuing to make reforms to its defense sector, and it’s continuing
to make progress on its governance sector. 

And the United States remains supportive of Ukraine’s continued reform
efforts across all of these sectors.

Q    Thank you very much.  I’ve got two questions if possible.  The
first one is related to Nord Stream 2.  President Zelenskyy said in an
interview that he didn’t really have much faith that Berlin and
Washington would work together on initiatives to mitigate Russia’s
energy dominance in Europe.  So how will the United States reassure Kyiv
that it’s going to support the energy independence of Ukraine,
especially within this meeting?

And the second question, if I may.  I just want to double check: What’s
the attitude from the White House toward the Ukrainian delegation
members, especially toward Zelenskyy’s chief of staff, Andriy Yermak,
who was responsible for the negotiations with Rudy Giuliani back in the
day?  Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thank you very much.  On the question
of Nord Stream, I think that we have been working across a number of
fronts to try and address Ukraine’s concerns. 

As you know, the President hosted German Chancellor Merkel here earlier
this summer, and the two sides agreed on a joint statement on support
for Ukraine energy security and our climate goals. 

Chancellor Merkel, herself, was in Russia last week to meet with
President Putin to start discussing aspects of this, and then she went
to Kyiv to have direct conversations with President Zelenskyy to discuss
the follow-on from those.  And it’s certainly an area that we continue
to engage with the German government on. 

In addition to that, I would flag several things that we have continued
to do on our side.  One, as I mentioned, we are going to be launching
the Strategic Energy and Climate Dialogue with Ukraine, which we see as
a way of continuing to work with them on their broader energy goals, in
terms — including energy security, economic ties, energy
diversification, and climate.  So, in addition to what we are doing with
Germany, as a follow-on from the agreement with Merkel, this gives us a
channel of dialogue directly with the Ukrainians. 

Second, the State Department has recently appointed Amos Hochstein as
Senior Advisor for Energy Security.  And he will continue working with
the Ukrainians, as well as with the Germans and other regional partners,
on the importance of maintaining Ukraine’s transit role and the security
of supply during this period of energy transition. 

And finally, as I mentioned, Energy Secretary Granholm was in Ukraine
last week to participate in the various events there.  And on the
margins of her meeting, she held a trilateral meeting with Ukrainian and
German counterparts in Kyiv, which was a good opportunity for us to be
able to discuss, at a very high level and an appropriate level, with the
energy ministers this agreement that the United States had with Germany,
Ukraine’s perspective on all of these issues, and also the way forward
with all of us collectively focused on the same goals. 

And we very much look forward to working with Zelenskyy’s team to be
able to achieve and implement those goals.

Q    Thanks.  Hi.  Two things.  First one just sort of housekeeping. 
Wasn’t this meeting originally scheduled for today?  And was it
postponed to get it on the other side of the Afghanistan withdrawal
deadline, or the hurricane, or both?  If you could just explain a little
bit on the scheduling. 

And then secondly, substantively, President Zelenskyy really didn’t make
any secret of his hopes to have this meeting ahead of the first time
that the President met with President Putin.  Obviously, that didn’t
happen.  Do you anticipate that being a point of contention between
them? 

And in hindsight — with the benefit of hindsight, might it have helped
with the President, when he spoke to Putin, to have had the Ukrainian —
a fresh perspective from the Ukrainian President in his head when he
did?  Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks, Anne.  Good to hear from you. 
On the date change, you are correct that we had initially announced the
date of the meeting for earlier.  As you know, bringing two heads of
state together is a complicated and fast-moving process.  I don’t want
to overly analyze the logistics here, other than to say that we want
this meeting to receive the attention that it deserves. 

I think, as we have been discussing here, there’s a wide range of issues
for the two sides to discuss, and really looking forward to having the
time and space to be able to do that on Wednesday. 

On your second question, I, you know, would leave it to the Ukrainians
to speak for themselves on this but don’t really expect it to be a point
of contention.  They did speak on June 7th and had a very long and
substantive conversation that included the full range of issues,
including the situation in Crimea and eastern Ukraine. 

And so I think it was very important to the President to be able to
connect with President Zelenskyy before he had that conversation with
President Putin.  And they were able to do that by phone.  And so I
think they were able to touch base in that context.  We have had many
subsequent conversations with the Ukrainians on the full range of
issues. 

And so I think that this meeting is going to be a good opportunity for
them to be able to touch base in person in terms of what the President
discussed with President Putin during their meeting, as well as the full
range of bilateral issues that I have been speaking to. 

Q    Hi, thanks for doing this.  Building on the last couple of
questions, this relationship seems to have gotten off to a somewhat
awkward start.  Obviously, the Nord Stream disagreements were mentioned,
as well as the scheduling of the meeting.  I wonder what the message is
to the Ukrainians.  Do you feel a need to sort of reassure them that
this administration is a reliable partner for them?

And then, on the flip side, you mentioned the democratic reforms several
times.  Do you feel the need for any sort of tough love on that issue?

So, yeah, if you could just address the overall message to the
Ukrainians on those two fronts.  Thanks. 

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks very much.  To your points on
the first one, you know, President Zelenskyy and Ukraine have gotten as
much, if not more, attention from this administration than any other
European country.  In terms of visits to the Oval Office, we had
Chancellor Merkel here several weeks ago in one of the final meetings
with her before the German election.  But otherwise, President Zelenskyy
is the second European leader that is going to be having a meeting in
the Oval Office.  It was also one of the first, if not the first,
bilateral visits, certainly in Europe, that Secretary Blinken made as
well when he went to Ukraine in May. 

And as I said, President Biden has already spoken with President
Zelenskyy on the phone.  And we also had our Energy Secretary there, as
well as frequent conversations at various levels of government with
Ukraine. 

So, I think from our perspective, there really has been a lot of
high-level attention paid to Ukraine by this administration from the
very beginning, and a lot of interest and excitement here in this visit,
which will provide the opportunity not only for the President, but also
for a range of Cabinet secretaries to be able to engage with Zelenskyy
and his delegation in person across a wide range of areas in our
bilateral relationship. 

And on the second point, yes, I think that there is going to be a
significant discussion within this meeting on the various reforms that
Ukraine has already undertaken, as well as the things that need to be
done. 

You know, Zelenskyy has already made significant progress on various
areas of reform and corruption, and so we look forward to having
discussions with him about ways that we can support the progress made to
date. 

I think this includes steps to protect the independence of the
anti-corruption institutions that improve their efficiency, legislation
on human rights, as well as progress on the reform agenda that’s going
to be essential to unlocking their Euro-Atlantic aspirations, as I noted
before, in addition to general progress strengthening of governance
institutions to ensure that democracy is able to deliver justice,
prosperity, and security for all Ukrainians.

President Biden has a very long record of support for Ukraine in
reform.  This was one of the areas that he was very actively engaged in
when he was \[Vice\] President.  And we’ll be looking for concrete
results in this space from our partners in the Zelenskyy administration,
but we’re also committed to continuing to provide the assistance and
other support that will be necessary to help bolster their efforts in
this space. 

NSC SPOKESPERSON:  Thank you, and thanks again for joining, everyone. 
One last reminder that the contents of this call are embargoed until
5:00 a.m. on Wednesday, the day after tomorrow, and this call was on
background, attributable to “senior administration officials.” 

If we did not get to your question, please reach out and we’ll get back
to you on those.  Thank you and have a great day.

2:58 P.M. EDT
