---
category: press-briefings
date: '2021-09-20'
modified_time: 2021-09-20 20:06:56-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/09/20/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-september-20-2021/
published_time: 2021-09-20 20:06:55-04:00
title: Press Briefing by Press Secretary Jen Psaki, September 20, 2021
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

1:10 P.M. EDT

MS. PSAKI:  Hi, everyone — or good afternoon.  Okay, two items for all
of you at the top. 

Today, the Biden administration is launching House America, a new
initiative for the Department of Housing and Urban Development and the
United States Interagency Council on Homelessness that will engage state
and local leaders to set and achieve ambitious goals for reducing
homelessness in America. 

Homelessness was on the rise before the pandemic, and the last couple of
years have just exacerbated the problem.  On any given night, more than
half a million Americans were enduring the pandemic without the safety
and protection of a home.

Thanks to the President’s American Rescue Plan — and Congress’s —
everybody’s American Rescue Plan — communities now have historic housing
resources to help more Americans obtain the safety of a stable home,
including 70,000 emergency housing vouchers, $5 billion in HOME grants,
and significant investments to preserve and protect housing on Tribal
lands.  In addition, communities have $350 billion in state and local
Fiscal Recovery Funds from the Department of Treasury to support many
needs, including homelessness and housing instability.

So, today, HUD is asking state, Tribal, and local leaders to work
collaboratively with them to use these ARP funds and other existing
federal, state, and local resources to rapidly reduce homelessness in
their communities and add new units of affordable and supportive housing
into the development pipeline by the end of 2022. 

The initiative will promote the use of “housing first” — the proven
theory that the best way to stabilize the life of someone experiencing
homelessness is to ensure that they have a home first without
preconditions — and so we are moving forward with that.

I also wanted to note that, tomorrow, the Senate Committee on Small
Business is set to consider the nomination of Dilawar Sieed \[sic\] —
Syed, excuse me — for deputy administrator for the Small Business
Administration. 

He’s a well-qual- — he’s well qualified to serve as deputy administrator
of the SBA, which has been critical in providing relief to small
businesses in the midst of the pandemic.  He’s lived the American Dream
as an immigrant and as CEO of a small startup, with — that will help
small businesses — that has been helping small businesses continue to
create jobs.

He has the endorsement of more than 200 individuals and groups, and yet
his confirmation is being held up in an unprecedented way and for no
good reason.

These members have refused to show up at committee meetings, meaning a
quorum cannot be reached and a vote cannot be held on his nomination. 
By refusing to show up at committee meetings, they are not just blocking
his vote but also slowing help to American small-business owners and
workers who are trying to build back \[from\] the pandemic.

So we wanted to call out that hearing that will happen tomorrow. 

Darlene, why don’t you kick us off?

Q    Thanks, Jen.  A couple of questions for you.  The U.N.
Secretary-General spoke to the AP over the weekend.  And in the
interview, he called on the U.S. and China to repair a relationship that
he says is, quote, “completely dysfunctional.”  He warned of a potential
new Cold War and said the U.S. and China need to be cooperating more on
COVID and other global challenges. 

So, do you have — how would you respond to the U.N. Secretary-General on
his call for the U.S. and China to be more friendly, I suppose?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, I would say the President’s view and this
administration’s view is that our relationship with China is one not of
conflict, but of competition.  And so, we wouldn’t agree with the
characterization of the relationship.

As I would note in the readout of the President’s call with President Xi
just last week — a 90-minute call that covered an extensive list of
topics — it was a conversation that was candid, but it was certainly not
elevated.  And we recognize that China is a country that while we have —
while we may take issue with some means they engage in the world, we
also have areas we will want to continue to work together. 

And that is certainly many of the topics that were raised by the
Secretary-General.  The President obviously has a meeting with him later
this evening. 

I would also note that, tomorrow, the President will deliver a speech,
as you all know, at the U.N. General Assembly, and he will make
absolutely clear that he is not looking to pursue a future — a new Cold
War with any country in the world.  We will continue to pursue our
interests.  We will continue to lift up global priorities.  But that is
not the objective or the policy of the United States.

Q    Another China-related question.  Can you say how concerned the
administration is about the stability of China’s real estate sector,
given the issues with China’s Evergrande?  And is it the
administration’s view that the People’s Bank of China can keep those
issues from spilling over into other sectors and possibly affecting U.S.
interests?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, let me first note that this is a company based in
China whose activities are overwhelmingly centered in China.  That being
said, we always are monitoring global markets — obviously from the
Department of Treasury primarily, including the assessment of any risk
to the U.S. economy — and stand prepared to respond appropriately if
needed.  But that monitoring would happen primarily from the Department
of Treasury and our Secretary of Treasury, of course.

Q    And then one more really quickly.  Is there any reaction from the
White House to the conviction, earlier today, of the man who inspired
“Hotel Rwanda”?  He’s a U.S. resident.  He was the recipient of a
Presidential Medal of Freedom.

MS. PSAKI:  I understand.  And I would like to get you a more
comprehensive reaction to it.  I know this is a question that others
will have in the room, so let me venture to do that after the briefing. 

Go ahead.

Q    Okay, what does the President want to tell President Macron about
the submarine deal?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, I think as had been noted in some reports, so
let me just confirm this, I guess: The President will have a call — it
has yet — is — we’re still working on the scheduling of it — with
President Macron in the coming days.  And what I expect the President
will do on that call is reaffirm our commitment to working with one of
our oldest and closest partners on a range of challenges that the global
community is facing.  And he, of course, will discuss recent
developments and our ongoing work together on a range of issues —
certainly our shared interest in the Indo-Pacific, but also a range of
global challenges and issues.

I would also note that the President spoke, in his remarks last week —
acknowledged in his remarks, I should say — he acknowledged that France
has a substantial Indo-Pacific presence and is a key partner and ally in
strengthening security and prosperity. 

But most importantly, we continue to look forward to our close alliance
with France — one of our strongest partnerships — as we work to address
a range of issues in the world. 

Q    And you have no plans to abandon the submarine deal, do you?

MS. PSAKI:  No, we do not.

Q    Okay.  And then, secondly, back in July, you opted not to lift to
travel restrictions on international visitors.  What’s changed between
then and now? 

MS. PSAKI:  Well, back in July, we also announced that there were a
series of working groups that were both interagency and working with a
range of countries and partners in the world to determine what the most
equitable and clear policies should be, moving forward, to resume
broader international travel.  And the older rules were not equitable,
in our view, and they were a bit confusing.  And so, this was an effort
to pursue that.

As was announced in a call earlier today, but I can reaffirm some of the
specifics that were announced: We — starting in November, we will be
implementing — I should say, in early November, we’ll be putting in
place strict protocols to prevent the spread of COVID-19 from passengers
flying internationally into the United States by requiring that adult
foreign nationals traveling to the United States be fully vaccinated. 
Obviously, this is the conclusion of a policy process on that particular
issue — an important one facing many people around the world. 

Go ahead. 

Q    Hey, Jen.  Two quick questions on COVID, and then I —

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.

Q    — have one foreign policy question for you.  Now that the FDA’s
vaccine advisors have recommended boosters for people 65 and up, how
soon do you expect President Biden to get his booster shot?  And will he
do so on camera?

MS. PSAKI:  He will do so, and he will do so on camera.  I don’t have a
date for you exactly. 

It’s important to note — just to take a slight step back — that there
are still a couple of additional steps in the process.  While, you know,
we view the news on Friday as an important step forward in protecting
more people, saving more lives, the addi- — the steps now is that ACIP
is planning to meet.  Based on their recommendation, we’re, of course,
prepared to operationalize on the plan.  And that includes having the
President get his booster shot as well.

Q    And is the President still being tested for COVID regularly?  And
if so, how often?

MS. PSAKI:  He is tested regularly.  He was tested last week, and his
test was negative.  But he is tested regularly.

Q    And just lastly on this front: Has he gotten or does he plan to get
the flu shot?

MS. PSAKI:  I will have — I will talk to his doctor.  I got a flu shot
last week.  They’re broadly available.  But I will check and see if we
have an answer to that question.

Q    And then just on the foreign policy front, with the U.N. visit
tomorrow: President Biden came into office declaring that “America is
back” and vowing to “reinvigorate” U.S. alliances.  But in recent weeks,
we’ve seen European allies be unsettled by the execution of the U.S.’s
withdrawal from Afghanistan; the administration has admitted to
mistakenly killing 10 civilians in this drone strike; and now the U.S.’s
oldest ally, France, has recalled its ambassador after being blindsided
by this submarine deal with Australia.  So, my question to you is, how
is the President going to restore U.S. credibility at the U.N. this week
after all that?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, why don’t I give you a — preview a bit of what you can
hear the President talk about tomorrow in his remarks.  And, obviously,
as you know, he’ll have a number of bilateral meetings tomorrow, as well
as later this week.  And to the degree you all have questions, I’m happy
to speak to those as well. 

But what you’ll hear him talk about tomorrow is the President is going
to lay out the case for why the next decade will determine our future,
not just for the United States, but for the global community.  And he
will talk — and this will be a central part of his remarks — about the
importance of reestablishing our alliances after the last several
years. 

I also think it’s important to note that reestablishing alliances
doesn’t mean that you won’t have disagreements, or you won’t have
disagreements about how to approach any particular issue in the world. 
That is not the bar for having an alliance and important and —
partnership.  And that has never been and it is not currently.  And his
— with the goal, of course, of increasing the prospect of security and
diminishing the prospect of war. 

He’ll also make clear that for many of the greatest concerns we have,
they cannot be solved or even addressed through the force of arms —
whether that is preparing for the next pandemic, something the United
States continues to be the global leader on; providing more vaccines to
the world than every other country combined; addressing the threat of
climate change as we look — all look ahead to COP26; leveling the
economic playing field; fighting for democracy at home and abroad; and
against threats from cybersecurity — ranging from cybersecurity to
emerging technologies and terrorism. 

Finally, he will also reaffirm that the United States is not turning
inward, including as we look to the decision the United States made, the
President made, to bring our troops home from Afghanistan.  Anyone who
reads that is not — in that way is not reading it accurately.  He will
talk about his objective of turning our focus and our resources to the
priorities and regions of the world that are the most consequential.

Q    But just given what’s happened in recent weeks and some of the
criticism that he’s faced in many of the capitals of the allies whose
partnerships he plans to, you know — and vowed to reinvigorate, does he
believe there’s work to be done to restore that credibility?  Or, you
know, to —

MS. PSAKI:  Is there a country or —

Q    — address the criticism that —

MS. PSAKI:  Well, tell me which — which country is telling you that we
don’t have credibility in the world?

Q    I didn’t say countries are saying there’s no creditability.  But
there has been criticism in foreign capitals in recent weeks, including
with many of the partners who the President said he was going to
reinvigorate these alliances with.  So how does he square —

MS. PSAKI:  But what I think it’s —

Q    — what has happened —

MS. PSAKI:  The reason I asked that question is because I think it’s
important to note that criticism of a decision is different from
criticism of the credibility and leadership of the United States,
broadly speaking.  And if you look back through the course of the last
several decades, prior to the last administration, there are points of
disagreement, including when we have disagreed with the decisions other
countries are making, decision points — when countries have disagreed
with the decisions we’re making. 

But the larger point here — and what you’ll hear the President talk
about tomorrow — is that we are committed to those alliances, and that
always requires work from every president, from every global leader. 
And his commitment is to make sure we are directing our energy, our
resources, our diplomacy, and our efforts on the biggest challenges
we’re facing in the world. 

And to him, that is the threat of climate, the threat of democracy,
threat of leveling — the importance of leveling the economic playing
field, addressing and preparing for the next pandemic.  Those are all
issues that we will continue to work with our partners on, including
those who may disagree with decisions we’ve made about a variety of
issues.

Go ahead, David.

Q    Back on the submarine deal.  So in the conversation with President
Macron, is it President Biden’s view that the United States is
responsible, in any way, for some kind of reparation, some kind of deal
that will make up for part of the economic loss and also give a greater
sense of a working partnership?  Or is it his view that it’s really up
to Australia to make up any kind of economic loss out of this if there’s
any loss to be made up at all?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I know from a range of reporting, including perhaps
yours, that there were a couple hundred jobs that they anticipate being
lost in France.  And certainly, that is a factor for them,
domestically.  We understand that.

But I think you can expect the President’s call will be more about
reaffirming the pr- — our commitment, the United States’ commitment to
our alliance, to our partnership, and to working together on a range of
issues, including security in the Indo-Pacific — that that will be the
broad focus of the call.

Q    And one more.  When you were in the Obama administration, we often
talked about the need to reduce the amount of highly enriched uranium
that’s moving around the world.  President Obama ran a number of
summits, you’ll recall, that were aimed at converting reactors from HEU
to LEU. 

So here we are helping Australia — a very good player, a well-known
non-proliferation advocate — by having them build HEU reactors or
building it for them.  Without any reference to problems with Australia,
what message does that send to the rest of the world about how committed
we are on this?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, David, the President’s position and commitment
to non-proliferation has not changed.  We’re committed to renewing
American leadership in non-proliferation and addressing the existential
threat posed by nuclear weapons.  This, in our view, is an exceptional
case, not a precedent-setting case.  As many of you know and have
followed this closely, we’re not talking about nuclear-armed
submarines.  I know you’re asking me about enriched uranium —

Q    Yeah.

MS. PSAKI:  — but it’s important for people to understand that as well. 
These are conventionally armed submarines that are powered by nuclear
reactors. 

There’s also an 18-month process that we are undergoing on the
implementation of this.  But again, this was a decision made working
with a country that has a long history the — Australia — as does the
United Kingdom, as does the United States — of being steadfast in
support for nuclear non-proliferation and for the regime and its
cornerstone, the NPT.  And we all are committed to complying with our
respective non-proliferation obligations as we implement over the next
18 months.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  Follow-up on Frank’s, first of all, you said you
expect a call in the next few days.  Have the French actually committed
to a call?

MS. PSAKI:  We’re in — yes, we’re in active conversation about a call.

Q    I just wanted to make sure you weren’t being sent to voicemail or
anything like that.

MS. PSAKI:  No, I don’t think so.

Q    Following up on the drone strike last week that the Pentagon now
admits was a tragic mistake: What was the President’s response when he
learned about that?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, the President was briefed on Friday morning about the
report that was going to be released and put out.  I would say first:
The President’s view and all of our view is that the loss of any
civilian life is a tragedy.  As was made clear in the comments by the
Secretary of Defense, by General McKenzie, this was done in error.  And
clearly, the investigation that will continue is something the President
broadly supports. 

So, as a human being, as a President, as somebody who has overseen loss
in a variety of scenarios both as a leader and personally, it is — his
reaction is it’s a tragedy, and every loss is a tragedy, and he supports
the efforts to — the effort to move this forward as quickly as possible
and to have a thorough investigation.

Q    You mentioned there’s an ongoing investigation.  Should it be
anticipated that someone would be fired, demoted, not promoted, passed
over, and held accountable within the military ranks for this?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think what’s important is that the Secretary of
Defense and the Chairman — and General McKenzie came forward and made
very clear that this was — they wanted to see this move forward quickly,
they want it to be as transparent as possible, they wanted to learn from
what had happened. 

It’s also important to note what the circumstances were here in — when
this strike was made: This was a scenario where there were direct
threats from ISIS-K against our troops who were on the ground in
Afghanistan.  And that was the scenario where the strike was made. 

Obviously, it was done in error, and obviously there was a horrific
tragedy that happened, but I’m not going to predict what the impact will
be. 

Q    Two more quick ones — one more on Afghanistan.  Back on October —
or August 26th, the President said, “I’ve also ordered my commanders to
develop operational plans to strike ISIS-K assets, leadership, and
facilities.  We will respond with force and precision at our time, at
the place we choose, and the moment of our choosing.”  Should we still
be anticipating that there will be military response to what happened
there in Kabul?

MS. PSAKI:  Against ISIS-K? 

Q    Yes.

MS. PSAKI:  Yes.  I think it’s important — this is a good question
that’s been asked.  I think this is a version of what you’re asking, but
others have asked me this.

You know there’s a difference between a self-defense strike based on an
imminent threat to U.S. forces — that’s why I referenced that — who were
obviously on the ground, and these were threats — as you all lived
through and covered and as we communicated about in the moment — and an
over-the-horizon strike, where we typically expect to have more time to
assess both the threat and the potential target.  That is a point
General McKenzie made — an important point, I think, for people to
understand as we assess over-the-horizon threats and targets moving
forward in the future.

Q    So, yes, at some point there might be something.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say, of course, the President’s desire to
continue to go after ISIS-K has not changed. 

Q    Okay.  And then just the one last one then — unrelated: the issue
of immigration — the ruling from the parliamentarian that legalization
for DREAMers can’t be part of the reconciliation as currently crafted. 
Given this is a top priority for a key voting bloc — Latinos here in
this White House — how personally engaged might the President get on
this?  Do you guys have specific alternative proposals that have a
chance of actually getting passed under this Congress?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, there are a number of senators who have spoken to
their intention of putting forward alternative proposals because of
their commitment and our shared commitment, of course, to moving
immigration reform forward and protecting DREAMers and others. 

And so, the President supports those efforts and certainly he has long
stated his support for immigration being a part of reconciliation. 
That’s really the next step in the process, but there are a number of
members who are already working on that. 

Q    Jen, immigration and Haiti. 

MS. PSAKI:  Let — I’ll go to you next, April.  Let me just go — go
ahead.

Q    Well, I’ll start there. 

MS. PSAKI:  Okay.

Q    So the — the crisis at the border in Del Rio: We heard DHS say
they’re going to continue expulsions under Title 42.  So what is the
White House’s message to Haitian immigrants seeking asylum?  Is there a
place for them?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think it’s important for people to understand a
couple of the components of what’s happening right now on the ground. 
One, we extended TPS several months ago and again reevaluated to ensure
that we were taking into account what was happening on the ground in
Haiti.  So that —

Q    But for the people that are here. 

MS. PSAKI:  I understand, but that does apply to people who are here who
arrived before a certain date, and I think that’s an important component
of what’s happening.   
  
If you’re talking about the situation on the ground in Del Rio, one,
it’s a challenging situation.  It’s devastating to watch this footage. 
I think it’s important though for people to also know that what we’re
trying to do is also protect people.   
  
One, we’ve been conveying that this is not the time to come.  We have
been implementing Title 42.  That’s not just about people in the United
States; that’s also about protecting migrants who would come in — come
in mass groups and be in mass groups.   
  
We are also surging resources and taking a multi-pronged approach. 
We’ve been working with the American Red Cross to bing \[sic\] in —
bring in much-needed resources.  We’ve worked with World Central Kitchen
to bring in meals.  And we have been expediting repatriation flights
both to a range of countries in South and Central America where people
may have come from, if they are — can be accepted back, and some back to
Haiti.   
  
That is what our focus is on at this point in time.  And our message
continues to be, as you’ve heard Secretary Mayorkas convey: Now is not
the time to come, for a range of reasons, including we don’t have the
immigration system up and running in the way we want, including there is
still a pandemic and Title 42 remains in place.  And these are the steps
that we’re taking in part to protect the border communities, as well as
the migrants themselves.

Q    On a different topic, quickly.  There will be a government shutdown
if Congress doesn’t act in 10 days.  Can you tell us what the impact of
a government shutdown would be on the COVID response from this White
House?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, our effort right now is to prevent a government
shutdown and to ensure we are not facing a government shutdown.  And, as
we get closer, we can certainly discuss that, but right now that’s where
our energies are.

Go ahead, April.

Q    Jen, back on Haiti.  I hear that, but digging in the weeds a little
bit more, the process for Haitian migrants has always, in this nation,
been different than other nations.  You have people like Congresswoman
Sheila Jackson Lee who’s calling for equal treatment and fairness when
it comes to the Haitians at the border and overall.  You’re allowing
Afghans to come in, Afghan supporters to come in, as well as Mexicans,
and then Haitians are not allowed.  Can you speak to that — the issue of
equity and fairness?

MS. PSAKI:  Absolutely, April.  I appreciate your question. Let me just
take these different pieces side by side.  Right?  One, our immigration
policy is not about one country or discriminating against one country
over another.  We want to end that and put — and hopefully put an end to
what we saw over the last four years.

Let me start with Afghan allies.  Afghans who are arriving in our
country are entering in a sanctioned and orderly process that includes
vetting and security screenings led by the Departments of State,
Defense, and Homeland Security.  It’s not about one particular country
of origin, but we’ve outlined very specifically in here what those
processes look like as individuals who are evacuated, go to lily-pad
countries, go through security vetting before they come to United States
on a range of programs.

As it relates to individuals who are coming across the border: Wherever
they’re coming from — whatever country they’re coming from, Title 42
remains in place.  There are a range of programs that people who are in
the country can apply for or may be eligible for, including TPS for
Haiti, which is something that we still are continuing to look at and
review. 

The Secretary of State, the Secretary of Homeland Security are
constantly assessing circumstances on the ground that would necessitate
a TPS designation for any country, and they’ve obviously made a couple
of designations over the course of the last couple of months as it
relates to Haiti.

Q    And no matter whether it’s the people who left — the Haitians that
left in 2010 and traveled to South America and are now trying to travel
here — or the ones who left after this earthquake — either way, what is
there for them to go back to when these planes are taking them back? 
The nation is in unrest.  The President was assassinated.  There are
gangs that people are scared to — they’re scared of.  Democratic rule is
not necessarily in place.  The people are calling — particularly those
here in this nation are calling for the elections not to be held, you
know, on time because of unrest there.  And then you also have the issue
of the earthquakes. 

So what is there to go back to?  What are you deporting them back to?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, April, I will say that our objective and our focus is
not only in implementing current immigration policies.  We have also
been working to provide a range of assistance, working closely with
officials from the government as individuals are going back to Haiti, to
provide a range of financial assistance, to provide a range of technical
assistance.  That is ongoing. 

And we certainly support and want to be good actors in supporting Haiti
during a very difficult time, as you noted, with a government that is
still working to get back to a point of stability, with recovery from an
earthquake.  And that’s why we have a range of programs, options, as
well as financial support in place.  
  
Okay.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  To follow up on Ed’s question on immigration: In the
big picture, right now, how confident is the President that he’ll be
able to enact some sort of long-term pathway to legal status for
millions of undocumented immigrants at some point before the midterms,
whether it’s through reconciliation or through some other —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  It’s a long time before the midterms.  I know that’s a tough
thing for you to hear, but it’s a long time before the midterms.  I
can’t give a projection for you.  It depends on a lot of factors,
including working with members of Congress.   
  
The — what I can tell you, though, is that the President is absolutely
committed to putting in place a path to citizenship, to putting in place
long-overdue measures to fix our immigration system — to make it more
moral, humane, and workable, frankly.  And obviously, he supported and
continues to support having immigration measures as a part of the
reconciliation process.   
  
And as I noted to Ed, the next step is really to see alternatives
proposed by senators, who have already said they have every intention of
doing exactly that.   
  
Q    Along the same lines — just to follow up on that — we’ve also seen
the parliamentarian rule against the effort to increase the minimum wage
through a reconciliation bill.  We’ve seen other priorities on the Hill
that both the President and Democrats campaigned on — you know, police
reform, gun control — also stalled.  Is there a recognition in the White
House now that some of the priorities that he and the party campaigned
for last year are just simply not going to happen, not going to become
reality before the midterms?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  No.   
  
Go ahead.   
  
Q    Thank you, Jen.  Back to the drone strike: You said last month,
“Our over-the-horizon capacity can work and has worked in going after
ISIS targets and killing people who went after our troops.”  But you
guys didn’t kill people who went after our troops; you killed 10
civilians, including 7 children.  So, does the President still think
these over-the-horizon strikes can work?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Absolutely.  And I will just reiterate, as our Secretary of
Defense conveyed, as Secretary — as General McKenzie conveyed, that
there was a serious mistake.  The Secretary of Defense has authorized,
as I noted before, a thorough review of the investigation just completed
by U.S. Central Command, including the degree to which the investigation
considered all available context and information; the degree to which
accountability measures need to be taken, at which level; and the degree
to which strike authorities, procedures, and processes need to be
altered in the future.  That’s an important process.   
  
I would note, which I noted earlier, that there’s a difference between a
self-defense strike — which is exactly what this was, and I would note
there was one prior to this that was a successful self-defense strike —
and those that pose — that is posing an imminent threat to U.S. forces —
who were, as we all know, on the ground at that time, facing real
threats in real time — and an over-the-horizon strike, where we
typically expect to have more time to assess both the threat and the
potential target.   
  
That is a different approach — and it requires a different approach and
is a different approach internally, and General McKenzie spoke to that
last week as well.   
  
Q    Some of the victims’ relatives are saying that they want to be
relocated here.  Is that something that the administration is going to
help them do?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I’m certainly — I’m not aware of that request — or that
ask.  I’m happy to certainly speak to our national securities team and
see what that process would look like.  
  
Q    And then a question about what’s going on at the border: Is
somebody asking the foreign nationals who are walking in in Del Rio,
Texas, and setting up camps on this side of the border for proof of
vaccination or a negative COVID test?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, first of all, I can re- — I can re-address for you or
re-talk you through what —  
  
Q    But that is the —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  — steps we take.  
  
Q    — but that is the policy for people who fly into the country.  So
if somebody walks into the country, right across the river, does
somebody ask them to see their vaccination card?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, let me explain to you again, Peter, how our process
works.  As individuals —  
  
Q    It doesn’t sound like it.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  As individuals come across the border and — they are both
assessed for whether they have any symptoms.  If they have symptoms,
they are — the intention is for them to be quarantined; that is our
process.  They’re not intending to stay here for a lengthy period of
time.  I don’t think it’s the same thing.   
  
Q    But they’re here.  What’s the difference?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  It’s not the same thing.  These are individuals — as we’ve
noted and as we’ve been — discussed, we are expelling individuals based
on Title 42, specifically because of COVID, because we want to prevent a
scenario where large numbers of people are gathering, posing a threat to
the community and also to the migrants themselves.   
  
So, those are the policies that we put in place, in large part because,
again, the CDC continues to recommend Title 42 be in place, given we’re
facing a global pandemic.  
  
Q    Where’s the Vice President on any of this?  Isn’t she supposed to
be addressing the root causes of migration?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Absolutely.  And she has been addressing the root causes of
migration by working with countries in the region to ensure they have
the assistance they need to reduce the number of people who are coming
and trying to make those journeys across the border.  We’ve actually
seen some reductions in some of those numbers.   
  
That doesn’t change the fact that this is a very challenging situation
in Del Rio.  We’re working to implement our policies, and we’re working
to ensure we are also addressing root causes.  
  
Q    And just a quick one on boosters: Why did the President say in
August, “Just remember, as a simple rule: Eight months after your second
shot, get a booster shot” if there is not enough data to support that
for the general population?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, what the <s>President</s> \[Surgeon General\] also
said is that, “I want to be very clear, the plan is pending the FDA
conducting in an independent evaluation of the safety and effectiveness
of a third dose of the Pfizer and Moderna vaccines and the CDC’s
Advisory Committee.”   
  
We are right now in the week of September 20th.  The advisory committee
is meeting on Thursday.  We’ve seen some recommendations that we felt
was a step forward in providing more protection to people across the
country.  And we’ll wait for that process to play out.  
  
Our objective and our role is to ensure we have the capacity, the number
of shots to provide them to the American people.   
  
Q    Sixteen out of eighteen FDA advisors say there is not the science. 
The President talks about “following the science.”  Is this a case of
him getting ahead on the science?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, first of all, I think what you heard Dr. Collins and
Dr. Fauci convey yesterday is that this is going to be an ongoing
process. 

I would remind you that the percentage of individuals, at this point,
who would be eligible to get a booster are largely people over 65,
because those are people who would have had the second dose six months
ago.  
  
If we’re looking at when we’re going to have available data — that’s
what the CDC and the FDA looks at — they need enough data to make
assessments.  No one is suggesting that there will never be boosters. 
We are suggesting that there needs to be a process to be seen through
for when boosters should be approved and when a broader swath of the
population is eligible.  
  
Go ahead, Kelly.  
  
Q    Back to the international COVID vaccine requirements for
travelers.  A number of individuals and European allies have been
pressing for access to the United States: families that have been
separated, business relationships that have been affected by it.  And
so, before the President goes to the United Nations General Assembly and
has meetings with foreign partners, this is when the decision is
announced that vaccination will allow people to come into the country. 
Is that part of the President’s, sort of, foreign policy outreach this
week — the timing of this decision?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  If we were going to make things much easier for ourselves,
we would have done it prior to June when the President had his first
foreign trip or earlier this summer.   
  
This is when the process concluded.  We want to make the information
available to the public.  We’re basing it on science and when the
process concluded, and here we are today.   
  
Q    Do you anticipate that Americans who are coming back to the United
States would be affected by this having to be tested?  Would there be
any opt-out policy for those who don’t want to do that?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  You mean people who don’t want to be vaccinated —  
  
Q    Yes.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  — who are Americans?  
  
Q    Yeah, that are unvaccinated Americans who would be flying home from
foreign travel.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  So, there would still be requirements for these — for
individuals — Americans who are not vaccinated — including providing
proof of a negative test result taken within one day of their departure
and providing proof they have purchased a viral test to be taken after
arrival for Americans who are not fully vaccinated — which, at this
point, would obviously apply to children as well.   
  
Q    And one last point.  Given the whole political timing, or at least
the timing seen in a political context of this vaccine requirement —
following up on what Jeremy was asking — does the President go into UNGA
knowing that his relationship with allies has hit a bumpy patch?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Look, I think the President’s view, having been on the world
scene for 50 years, is that you always have to work on your
relationships, and that includes with global leaders.

But he believes that our relationships are sustaining, over the course
of many decades; that every step he’s taken from the moment he took
office was with the intention of rebuilding alliances and rebuilding
those partnerships that were frayed over the last four years.   
  
And his view, as I’ve conveyed over the course of the early part of the
briefing, is that that doesn’t mean that the bar is we will always agree
with everything our partners and allies do, nor will they agree with
everything we do, but that our relationships are stronger — they have a
stronger basis, and that we have an opportunity to work together on the
global issues that the world is facing.  And that’s what he expects the
focus of the next few days to be.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Some of the President’s counterparts who will be in attendance at
the U.N. this week have not gotten vaccinated; some have had COVID in
the past.  Any pause in sending the President into the U.N. General
Assembly chamber and the potential that it could be a superspreader?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  We obviously take a range of precautions, including ensuring
the President is tested — obviously, he’s vaccinated.  But there’s no
intention to change our plans to have him deliver a speech there.  
  
Q    A couple quick questions approaching the line of questioning that
Peter was asking you about, but perhaps approach from the other side —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Okay.  
  
Q    — on behalf of people who look at what happened last week and were
disappointed.  They may be six-plus months out from their second shot
and they want a booster shot today; they don’t want to wait.  Can you
explain the process to those people —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  
  
Q    — and address their concerns? 

And in particular, get at the question of accountability, because it was
the eight health experts who surround the President, who are best known
to the country — perhaps most trusted by the country — who suggested
that this would be the week.  Who were these people who were deciding
that it shouldn’t be this week or that shouldn’t be people under the age
of 65?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, even — those eight health experts who, you’re right,
put out the statement in August based on data that we had — that they
had available to them as health experts suggesting the waning influence
— or the waning impact, I should say — the waning effectiveness of
vaccines, they felt they had a responsibility to make their
recommendations, their views public to the American people.  That’s
exactly what they did.   
  
There’s also a process in place for a reason.  And I would say — I think
any of us would say — to anyone who’s frustrated or who wants to have
their booster shot now: That process is in place for a reason so that
you can trust what the final recommendation and the final outcome is. 
And it includes — obviously, last week, there was — the FDA had their
own review and their own process, a formal meeting of the Advisory
Committee.  ACIP is meeting this week.   
  
But this is not the last meeting.  I think that’s important for people
to understand, and Dr. Fauci referenced this yesterday.  There will be
additional data.  There will be additional data from probably Moderna,
from J&J, others in the coming weeks.  There’ll be more data for people
who are younger than 65.  They will look at all of that.   
  
This is an ongoing process.  This is not a decision that there will
never be boosters for others.  This is the first step in a process — a
positive one, in our view — about protecting more people. 

And — but it is also important to keep the FDA as the gold standard and
ensure that process proceeds so people can trust their
recommendations.   
  
Go ahead.   
  
Q    Thank you.  So, just to follow up on David’s question: So it sounds
like there isn’t an offer in the works to the French to ameliorate some
of the harm to the U.S.-French relation?  No offer in the works to make
up for some of the economic damage?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  The real focus of the meeting — of the call, I should say —
whenever it’s finalized and scheduled — is about reaffirming our
commitment — the President’s commitment, the United States’ commitment —
to our partnership and to working together on a range of issues,
including the Indo-Pacific.  
  
Q    So, just to clarify, that means we’re not offering the French
anything?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I’m not aware of a plan to offer anything.   
  
Q    And then on the drone strike, do you know if there’s any discussion
for the administration or for the U.S. to pay some of the families of
the victims of the drone strike?

MS. PSAKI:  That is something that was referenced by — General McKenzie
referenced, I should say, ex gratia payments.  And they’re exploring
that option from the Department of Defense.  But I’d really point you to
them. 

Q    And then one more thing on the — on national — on international
travel.  Do you know if there’s any discussion, right now, about how the
U.S. will decide who is vaccinated, what counts as vaccinated?  Will the
Chinese vaccine count?  Will the Russian vaccine count?  AstraZeneca? 
Is there discussion on what exactly is a “vaccine” and “vaccinated”?

MS. PSAKI:  Yes, this is all a part of the process.  It’s going to be
implemented, again, in early November.  In terms of how the proof of
process will work, which is a very good question, that’s part of what
the implementation interagency discussions will focus on. 

Q    So we’ll have an answer before November?

MS. PSAKI:  Yes, exactly. 

Q    Thank you.

MS. PSAKI:  Hopefully sooner than that. 

Go ahead.

Q    Yeah, just a technical thing on the international travel policy. 
You talk about unvaccinated Americans; what about like green card
holders, visa holders?  Would they — people who — you know, who under
the current travel policy can get into the country, would they have to
be vaccinated or would they have to do the testing protocol like
Americans?

MS. PSAKI:  That’s a really good question.  I’ll have to ask what the
specification is there for them. 

Q    Okay.  And then on immigration and the parliamentarian’s ruling —
you’ve sort of gotten at this, but I’m just wondering about the
President’s level of commitment to this being in the reconciliation
bill.  Does it have to be in reconciliation?  Is there a point at which
it gets thrown overboard like the minimum wage did?  And are there any
concerns about losing certain senators — Democratic senators — who
insist that this be in there?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, as our comment last night made very clear, the
President absolutely supports efforts by senators who have already come
forward — Leader Schumer has, other senators — about introducing
alternate proposals and seeing if they can work their way through the
process.  So that’s where we stand right now.  I think that reflects his
commitment. 

But, obviously, we don’t determine the outcome of the parliamentarian
process. 

Go ahead.

Q    Jen, a follow-up question on Haiti.  There are photographs and
reports of border agents on horseback using what appeared to be whips on
Haitian migrants.  Does the administration view that as an appropriate
tactic?  Can you speak to that?  There are people who are upset about
it.

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah, understandably so.  I — I’ve seen some of the
footage.  I don’t have the full context.  I can’t imagine what context
would make that appropriate.  But I don’t have additional details. 

Q    Should they be fired? 

MS. PSAKI:  And, certainly — I don’t have additional context, April.  I
don’t think anyone seeing that footage would think it was acceptable or
appropriate.

Q    And then, DHS said it will be — that are — said yester- — said
Saturday that federal agencies will be partnering with the Haitian
government to provide assistance to the returnees.  Can you elaborate on
what that assistance will entail exactly?

MS. PSAKI:  You mean to the people who are returning to Haiti?

Q    Correct.

MS. PSAKI:  Yes, we’ve been in close contact with the government about —
when people return, what that looks like.  Let me get you some more
additional details about what that looks like when they get on the
ground.

Q    Can I follow up on that?  Jen.  Jen.

MS. PSAKI:  Oh.  Go ahead.  Go ahead, Yamiche. 

Q    Thanks so much, Jen.  I want to follow up on the question about
Haitians — and specifically, these — these photos that are surfacing; on
Border Patrol agents seemingly using whips.  I know you said that
there’s no context that it would be seen as <s>in</s>appropriate.  So,
the question really is: Why would this be happening under the Biden
administration?  Is this going to stop?  What would the — I wonder, sort
of, what are going to be the consequences if what we’re seeing is what
we’re seeing?

MS. PSAKI:  I mean, Yamiche, it’s all good questions.  We just saw this
footage.  It’s horrible to watch.  I just have to get more information
on it. 

Q    Can I ask a follow-up?

Q    If this is true, will they be fired?  If this is true will they be
—

MS. PSAKI:  Again, April, I don’t have more information on it.  I’ve
also seen the video.  I can’t imagine what the scenario is where that
would be appropriate.  I’m certainly not suggesting that.  But we’ve
just seen the footage short — earlier this morning.

Q    And if I could also ask — I was talking to Haitian American
advocates this weekend.  They say that deporting people back to Haiti is
like dropping people into a burning house.  This idea that — the country
is just not in a place where it can handle this.  Haiti is — Haitian
officials have said, “Can you please have a pause on this?”  Is there
any sort of discussion being made to make exemptions for some of these
migrants?  If so, who would those people be?  Or are all of these people
just going to end up dropped back in Haiti?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, I would say: I mean, we are constantly
assessing circumstances on the ground.  Obviously, the Secretary of
State and the Secretary of Homeland Security are the ones who would
assess circumstances like TPS status, which would be one that we granted
and adjusted over the course of the last several months to account for
circumstances on the ground in Haiti. 

I don’t — can’t make any predictions of that.  But I would just
reiterate that, obviously, our objective here is to not just work to
address the circumstances, which are very difficult, in Del Rio, but
also to continue to work with the officials in Haiti to improve the
conditions, to provide assistance.  We’re doing all of these pieces at
the same time; it is not just one at the same time.  But I can’t predict
for you what an assessment would look like or what the outcome of that
assessment would look like.

Q    And a quick follow-up on the photo.  I know you said that you’re
still assessing it.  But just to add, if this is what we see, is the —
is it the President’s stance or the White House’s stance that whoever
these border agents are — using what seems to be whips on migrants —
that they would be fired or at least never be able to do that again?

MS. PSAKI:  Of course, they should never be able to do it again.  I
don’t know what the circumstances would be.  It’s obviously horrific —
the footage. 

I don’t have any more information on it, so let me venture to do that —

Q    But why won’t you say “fired”? 

MS. PSAKI:  — and we’ll see if there’s more to convey. 

Karen, go ahead. 

Q    But, Jen, why can’t you say “fired” if they — if they are — that —

MS. PSAKI:  I think —

Q    This is a humanitarian issue. 

MS. PSAKI:  April, I absolutely understand your question.  I think I’ve
been very clear about how horrific the footage is.  I don’t have more
information. 

As a U.S. official, it’s a — I have a responsibility to get more context
and information.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  Two on COVID.  Does the White House have an
expectation now on when kids younger than 12 will be able to get the
vaccine?  Is this before Thanksgiving?  Are we thinking the end of
October?  What’s the latest right now?

MS. PSAKI:  I’m also — and have self-interest, as do you, Karen.  I
understand.  I think you heard — you saw Pfizer put out their data. 
Obviously, that’s just a step.  They had to — it has to go through the
full approval process.  So, I can’t make a prediction of that at this
point.  But, certainly, we were encouraged to see that.  But it needs to
move its way through the official government process. 

Q    And on the international travel today, you talked about the policy
process.  What was the White House looking or the administration looking
to see in order to get to this point today to make the change?  Was it
the vaccination rates in Europe?

And how will the contact tracing work?  And what resources will be put
to that?  Because that’s not been something we’ve seen a really solid,
robust effort in the U.S. on over the last year and a half. 

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  So this — this was a process — this was an ongoing
process, as you all know, that we discussed pretty extensively here. 

CDC is going to issue a contact tracing order that will require airlines
to collect comprehensive contact information for every passenger coming
to the United States and to provide that information promptly to the
CDC, upon request, to follow up with travelers who have been exposed to
COVID-19 variants or other pathogens.  And these requirements will apply
globally.  

That’s a good example of where the — some of the considerations.  As we
were making these policy decisions, we had to account for and plan for
and ensure that we could implement this policy in a way that was clear,
that was equitable, that provided — that ensured that there was equal
treatment around the world of how people could come into the United
States given COVID protocols.  But that’s an important question.  We
wanted to make sure we addressed a lot of those internally as well. 

Go ahead.

Q    Also on the international travel announcement, it did not include
an opening of the land border — north or south.  Is the administration
worried that any easing at the southern border would be contributing to
the immigration problems?  And is — was that a factor in that decision?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, this is an all — an ongoing process.  Right?  Title 19
is what is in place, of course, at land borders; it’s being extended for
another month, through October 21st.  We don’t have any updates or
predictions at this point in time.  But, obviously, we’re continuing to
consider — as is evident by our announcement today — how we can return
to a place of travel and people being able to move from country to
country, including at our land borders.  But I don’t have any prediction
of that at this point.

Q    Hey, Jen?

Q    Jen?  Jen?

MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead.

Q    You may not have seen this because it happened just minutes before
you came out, but the Supreme Court has set a December 1st hearing date
for the Mississippi abortion law that’s a direct challenge to Roe v.
Wade.  Any reaction?

MS. PSAKI:  I had not seen that — you’re correct — before I came out,
and I’m sure we can venture to get you a more substantive reaction to
that. 

I think you’re all familiar with what the position of this
administration is on a woman’s right to choose, as is evidenced by the
Department of Justice’s announcement about their intention to — their —
to file lawsuit and challenge the Texas law — given our commitment to
protecting. 

I will note — and you may have seen this, but since we’re on this topic
— a couple of people have asked, over the course of time, our position
on the Women’s Health Protect Act.  We rolled out a statement of
administration policy in strong support of this as well this morning.  I
know, different question, but same pool of topics. 

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you so much.  Following up on Haiti.  Some of the Haitian
migrants at the border told VOA that they were treated worse than their
Spanish-speaking counterparts.  They were denied the chance to change
clothing, that they were not given adequate information on their
deportation or their deportation status.  And we had one guy say to us,
“It was like being in jail, no food, nothing.”  You know, what is your
response to this?  Is this policy?

And then just secondly — Haitian Americans say that this mass
deportation and this treatment of people at the border is — is the
President going back on campaign promises to their community.

MS. PSAKI:  In which campaign promise?

Q    To help them kind of get over some of the challenges facing Haiti
and also to help people migrate to the U.S.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, the President committed to extending temporary
protected status to Haiti, which is something he did.  And he extended
that — we extended that to a longer period of time to account for the
turmoil on the ground following the assassination, on the ground, of
their leader.  So that was the campaign commitment that he made. 

But I think we can — I can assure people that that is not our policy. 
Obviously, any circumstance where individuals are not treated humanely,
whether they are coming to our border or not, is not in line with the
Biden administration policies. 

This is clearly a very challenging circumstance on the ground, one where
we have worked under our Department of Homeland Security to expedite
surge resources, which includes World Central Kitchen bringing in meals,
the American Red Cross bringing in much-needed resources to the
population. 

These are all steps we’ve taken from a humanitarian perspective.  It
does not mean that every individual — that there aren’t individuals, as
are — as you evidenced, that didn’t have experiences where they did not
have access to these resources.  But our policy is to provide resources,
is to previ- \[sic\] — to treat people humanely. 

But we also need to implement what is our law and what is our — and what
that is implementing — Title 42 — and continuing to ensure that people
who are not coming here lawfully are sent back to the countries they
came from. 

Go ahead. 

Q    Thank you, Jen.

MS. PSAKI:  Okay.  Last one.

Q    Two quick questions.

MS. PSAKI:  Yep.

Q    On the French getting — the French sub deal.  Lockheed Martin was —
had a major part of that contract between the Australians and the
French.  Headquarters down the street are not far from here.  Are they
going to be carried over to the new U.S.-U.K. deal?  Do you know?  Are
they going to be involved in that?

MS. PSAKI:  I’d have to check on the specifics of the deal.

Q    Okay.  Second question.  So when — when’s the President going to
hold another news conference where we can ask our questions to him about
all of these issues about inflation, about the border, and Afghanistan?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, the question — the President took questions probably
four or five times last week.  So, I would point you to that. 

Thanks, everyone. 

Q    Can we see about getting the Homeland Security Secretary to come
here and answer —

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.

Q    — questions, instead of going to Texas and answering them there?

MS. PSAKI:  We can, but it’s important for him to go to Texas, too.

Q    Absolutely.

MS. PSAKI:  That’d be great. 

Thanks, everyone.

1:59 P.M. EDT
