---
category: press-briefings
date: '2021-09-15'
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/09/15/background-press-call-on-aukus/
published_time: 2021-09-15 17:56:30-04:00
title: "Background Press Call on\_AUKUS"
---
 
Via Teleconference

9:03 A.M. EDT

MODERATOR:  Hi, everyone.  Thanks for joining us this morning.  Just to
kick us off with some ground rules at the top: To reiterate, this call
is on background.  It will be attributed to “senior administration
officials.”  The contents of this call are embargoed until 5:00 p.m.
Eastern Time.  And by joining this call, you are hereby agreeing to
these ground rules.  Again, the contents are embargoed until 5:00 p.m.
Eastern. 

Now, to quickly get into the topic of what we are discussing today: As
you know, at 5:00 p.m., President Biden will be delivering remarks.  He
will be delivering remarks alongside Prime Minister Morrison of
Australia and Prime Minister Johnson of the UK, and they will be
announcing the creation of a new trilateral security partnership between
our three nations focused on the Indo-Pacific region.

The partnership is named AUKUS — that is A-U-K-U-S.  So the purpose of
this briefing today is to discuss this new initiative.  We have two
senior administration officials.  For your awareness, the speakers today
are \[senior administration official\] and \[senior administration
official\].  Hereafter, they will be referred to as “senior
administration officials.” 

So, with that, I will turn it over to our first briefer for some brief
opening remarks.  Over to you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thank you, and good morning to
everyone.  So as \[senior administration official\] indicated, the three
leaders of our maritime democracies will, this evening or later today,
announce the formation of a new trilateral security partnership.  And
AUKUS obviously represents Australia, United Kingdom, and the United
States.

I think this is an historic announcement.  It reflects the Biden
administration’s determination to build stronger partnerships to sustain
peace and stability across the entire Indo-Pacific region.  This new
architecture is really about deepening cooperation on a range of defense
capabilities for the 21st century. 

And again, these relationships with Great Britain and Australia are time
tested — our oldest allies, generally.  This is designed not only to
strengthen our capabilities in the Indo-Pacific but to link Europe, and
particularly Great Britain, more closely with our strategic pursuits in
the region as a whole. 

I think, you know, Great Britain is very focused on the concept of
“global Britain,” and their tilt is about engaging much more deeply with
the Indo-Pacific, and this is a down payment on that effort. 

This new architecture, this new alignment is about collaborating on
joint capabilities and pursuing deeper interoperability.  And you will
see several things: One, we will announce a new architecture of meetings
and engagements among our senior defense and foreign policy officials to
share perspectives, to align views.  But we will also announce efforts
to spur cooperation across many new and emerging arenas — cyber; AI —
particularly applied AI; quantum technologies; and some undersea
capabilities as well.

We’ll also work to sustain and deepen information and technology
sharing, and I think you’re going to see a much more dedicated effort to
pursue integration of security and defense-related science, technology,
and industrial bases, and supply chains.  This will be a sustained
effort over many years to see how we can marry and merge some of our
independent and individual capabilities into greater trilateral
engagement as we go forward.

I just want to underscore, just generally: Obviously, there are no
better allies than the United Kingdom and Australia.  This is about
strengthening our alliances and working together to meet the challenges
of the 21st century.

We undertake this effort as part of a larger constellation of steps,
including stronger bilateral partnerships with our traditional security
partners in Asia — Japan, South Korea, Thailand, the Philippines — and
also stronger engagement with

new partners like India, Vietnam, and new formations like the Quad. 
And, as you know, the Quad will be held in person for this first time
next week.

But for AUKUS, in addition to this set of strategic and defense-related
steps, our first initiative as part of AUKUS is the three countries will
announce, later today, a shared ambition to support Australia’s desire
to acquire nuclear-powered submarines.  And we will launch a trilateral
effort of 18 months, which will involve teams — technical and strategic
and navy teams — from all three countries to identify the optimal
pathway of delivery of this capability. 

And I think, as you know, the only country that the United States has
shared, traditionally, this kind of nuclear technology for propulsion is
Great Britain, and that arrangement dates back to 1958. 

We are adding — this is a unique set of circumstances — Australia to
that deep partnership to explore the best ways for Australia to pursue
nuclear-powered submarines.

I do want to underscore that this will give Australia the capability for
their submarines to basically — to deploy for longer periods.  They’re
quieter.  They’re much more capable.  They will allow us to sustain and
to improve deterrence across the Indo-Pacific. 

As part of that, we will work closely on efforts to ensure the best
practices with respect to nuclear stewardship.  I think you will see
much deeper interoperability among our navies and our nuclear
infrastructure people to ensure that our countries are working very
closely together. 

I just want to underscore that this is a fundamental decision —
fundamental — that binds decisively Australia to the United States and
Great Britain for generations. 

This is the biggest strategic step that Australia has taken in
generations.  And it is noteworthy that it comes here during the 70th
anniversary of ANZUS.  So it’s a substantial strategic alignment for
Australia, building on a deep partnership with both countries. 

I do want to underscore that the Biden administration remains deeply
committed to American leadership and nonproliferation.  This is nuclear
propulsion.  Australia has no intention of pursuing nuclear weapons. 
And Australia is, in fact, a leader in all nonproliferation efforts in
the NPT and elsewhere. 

Australia, again, does not seek and will not seek nuclear weapons; this
is about nuclear-powered submarines.  But it’s a very important
initiative that will basically set us on a new course of trilateral
cooperation into the 21st century. 

I’m going to ask my colleague if he’d like to jump in quickly, and then
we will open it up for your questions.  Thank you very much. 

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks very much.  I’ll just follow up
on what my colleague said about nonproliferation by adding that this
partnership is, in many ways, possible because of Australia’s
longstanding and demonstrated commitment to nuclear nonproliferation. 

The partnership is going to be taken fully consistent with our
respective nonproliferation obligations over the next 18 months during
this consultation period. 

Our shared objective is to maintain the strength of the nonproliferation
regime and Australia’s exemplary nonproliferation credentials.  That
will be central to the discussion.  And, you know, as we embark on the
effort for the next 18 months, we will be engaged fully with the IAEA. 

So I’ll stop there.  I think we’re ready now to turn to questions. 

Q    Hi.  Thanks very much for doing this.  \[Senior administration
official\], I guess this question is mostly to you: What will this
nuclear submarine technology allow Australia to do in the Indo-Pacific
with regard to China?  I imagine it makes Australia — Australian subs
much more on a par with Chinese subs and other nuclear-powered
technology, but if you could talk about that direct linkage please. 

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So, thank you for the question.  I
would say, just at a general level, nuclear-powered submarines really
maintain superior characteristics of stealth and speed, maneuverability,
survivability, and really substantial endurance. 

And I think the challenge with conventionally powered submarines is that
you have to surface regularly, the range is limited. 

And I think what we’re seeing in the Indo-Pacific region is a — is a set
of circumstances where capabilities are more advanced.  This allows
Australia to play at a much higher level and to augment American
capabilities that will be similar.  And these — this is about
maintaining peace and stability in the Indo-Pacific. 

I would just underscore: That’s the mission that we’ve undertaken for
decades.  We are determined to continue that effort, and I think
Australia has basically indicated that they want to ensure that they’re
playing a strategic role in that overall effort. 

Q    Hi.  Thank you.  Thank you very much for this.  I wanted you to
tell us a little bit about how the UK is going to fit into this.  I
mean, are we going to be expecting to see more UK patrols?  Will that
involve British submarines, and what type of submarines might those be? 

And on the (inaudible), we’ve heard that there might be some agreement
to upgrade air cooperation that could possibly see U.S. bombers and
fighters accessing Australian airfields in the future.  Is this part of
the arrangement?

And also, we’ve heard maybe there could be an agreement about Australia
producing its own munitions domestically. 

Thank you. 

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thank you.  Those are — those are good,
detailed questions.  Let me just take — give you as much clarity as I
can. 

I think, as you know, the ministers from Australia are meeting with
their counterparts here in Washington today and tomorrow.  They will
have more to say about how the United States and Australia intend to
work together on a range of issues, both in terms of policy coordination
and interoperability.  And I’ll leave it to them to specify any next
steps with respect to American engagement directly with Australia. 

I think, with respect to Great Britain, you have just seen the
substantial deployment of British forces throughout the Indo-Pacific —
very successful deployments of the aircraft carrier in supporting ships,
lots of valuable port engagements.

Our strategic discussions — and I just want to underscore that this
AUKUS negotiation transcended several months of very deep, very
high-level engagements with both our military commands, our political
leadership, and the people closest to our leaders in order to chart a
common path on the way forward.

And I think what we heard in all those conversations is a desire for
Great Britain to substantially step up its game in the Indo-Pacific.  I
think the process of this next 18 months is to help chart out what
exactly that means. 

Obviously, Great Britain has enormous responsibilities and interests in
Europe and in the Middle East, but it also has deep historical ties to
Asia.  I think they’ve indicated to us that they do want to do more
going forward, and I think this is a clear and decisive next step in
that arena.

I do want to say that these are three equal partners.  Great Britain has
been a very strong strategic leader in this effort.  They have, in many
respects, helped mediate and engage on all the critical issues.  And
they are determined to play their role going forward.

Q    Hi.  Thank you for doing this, \[senior administration official\]. 
So, my question is — was related to China, but you sort of answered that
in the first question.

President Biden talked about the EU Allies’ engagement with Indo-Pacific
partners, and you just mentioned that as well.  This might be a little
bit too early to talk about that, but will we see extension of this
trilateral framework in the future?  You know, will we include New
Zealand in this framework and France and other countries that might also
be interested to have a say in the Indo-Pacific region and the United
States may have interests there?  Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah.  I do want to underscore: We see
this as a very rare engagement between Australia, Great Britain, and the
United States. 

We’ve done this only once before, as I indicated.  That was almost 70
years ago with Great Britain.  And, in fact, one of the reasons why
we’ve done this with Australia with Great Britain is because of the
experience, lessons learned, and history associated with this program,
which will be extremely valuable in the engagement with Australia.

This technology is extremely sensitive.  This is, frankly, an exception
to our policy in many respects.  I do not anticipate that this will be
undertaken in other circumstances going forward.  We view this as a
one-off.

We do believe that this is complementary to other forms of security and
political engagement in the region.  I think the leaders of Australia
and Great Britain will seek to underscore that this is meant to
complement ongoing and existing security and political partnerships, and
it’s meant to send a message of reassurance and a determination to
maintain a strong deterrent stance into the 21st century.

Thanks.

Q    Thank you.

Q    (Inaudible.)  Can you just explain exactly how this is going to
look, how it’s going to work at 5:00 p.m., given the nature of who you
said is going to announce it?

And then, my big question, if you could — just be explicit: What is the
message you are sending to China today?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So, let me just say, today, there will
be a virtual session that will be live between the three leaders.  We’ll
kick it off with a little opening, and then each of the leaders will lay
out specifically what they want to accomplish, what their ambitions are,
and I think it will be an opportunity for each of them to lay out their
vision for the future and indicate the launch of this 18-month effort
and how that effort to basically put the architecture around this
ambitious partnership in place.

I do want to just underscore, very clearly: This partnership is not
aimed or about any one country; it’s about advancing our strategic
interests, upholding the international rules-based order, and promoting
peace and stability in the Indo-Pacific.

And I would just say that this — I would view this in context of our
ongoing efforts — bipartisan efforts, over decades, to continue to play
this critical role.  The most dynamic, commercial, economic, most
vibrant region in the world is the Indo-Pacific, but that vibrancy, that
dynamism rests on confidence and peace and stability. 

The United States has been the bedrock on that effort, and I think what
this partnership and alignment seeks to underscore is that we want to
continue to help play that role, but that we want to play it not only
individually with a strong American commitment, but in partnership with
other countries as well.

And so, you’re going to see a number of things.  Again, you’ve seen very
strong statements and engagements with Japan and South Korea and the
Philippines to date; new engagements with countries like Vietnam,
Indonesia, and India. 

And then, next week, you’ll hear a discussion between leaders about how
the Quad can deal with critical issues like the pandemic and
infrastructure.  This is all about developing an integrated, effective
web of engagement about sustaining the operating system of Asia, the
rules-based order that has been so good for all of us over these many
years, and we hope into the future.

Q    Hi, everyone.  How soon do you think Australia will actually be
able to field nuclear submarines?  And how does this factor into their
most recent order for new attack submarines?  Is this going to retrofit
the project that’s already underway, modify that?  You know, what is the
timeline and process?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So, look, I’m going to let Australia
answer questions about their arrangement with France for conventional
submarines.  I think that will be dealt with in the next couple of
days.  I would view this as a unique endeavor that involves the three
countries that we’ve laid out more clearly. 

I do want to just underscore that it’s very hard to overestimate how
challenging and how important this endeavor will be.  Australia does not
have a nuclear domestic infrastructure.  They have made a major
commitment to go in this direction.  This will be a sustained effort
over years. 

And everything that we’ve seen from Australia indicates that they’re
determined to proceed on this course, and we have high confidence —
complete confidence — that they will be effective in this pursuit.  But
it will be lengthy and it will be detailed and it will be substantial. 

Q    Thank you so much for doing this call.  I understand that you’re
saying that this move is — I understand that you’re saying that this
move is not about any one country.  But, obviously, I would think that
these are — these are submarines.  This is about national security, when
you’re talking about enforcing rules and, you know, a rules-based order,
and talking about having submarines that have more stealth
capabilities. 

That clearly seems like this is about security matters and this is about
military threat.  And it would seem like the only country that is not
involved would be China.  So, I guess, can you talk more about — it
seems like this is a military move aimed at China.  How can it not be?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Look, I have nothing further to add
than what I’ve said.  This is not aimed at any one country.  This is
about a larger effort to sustain the fabric of engagement and deterrence
in the Indo-Pacific. 

We have a history of innovation, upgrading capabilities.  I would urge
you to look at it in this context.  And I would simply say that I think
one of the things that the United States has done most effectively in
the Indo-Pacific is to secure peace and stability and to be the ultimate
guarantor of that rules-based order. 

I think it’d be fair to say, over the last several years, there have
been questions: Does the United States still have the stomach?  Do we
have the wit and wisdom that we want to continue to play that role?

What President Biden is saying with this initiative is: Count us in.  We
are all in for a deeper, sustained commitment to the Indo-Pacific, and
we recognize that our — one of our critical roles is indeed the
maintenance of peace and stability there. 

Q    Hi, thanks for doing this.  Can you say if President Biden
discussed this new partnership with President Xi on their call earlier
this week?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Not in any specific terms, but
President Biden did underscore our determination to play a strong,
strong role in the Indo-Pacific.  He reviewed some of the efforts that
we’ve taken to date — engagements in Europe and the like.

I do want to just underscore that this effort, for obvious reasons —
this is a huge deal in Australia — was undertaken with a high degree of
discretion.  And indeed, you know, only today we are briefing and
rolling out our engagements with a variety of leaders accordingly.

We will debrief all interested parties and explain clearly what we —
what our intentions are in the Indo-Pacific, in Europe, international
organizations like the IAEA and others. 

This is the intent to do this in a very straightforward, transparent
way.  This is a partnership that we’re proud of, that we believe is
reassuring and will have a positive impact on the Indo-Pacific. 

MODERATOR:  On that note, just a reminder, this call was on background,
attributed to “senior administration officials,” and the contents are
embargoed until 5:00 p.m. Eastern time. 

Thank you all. 

9:29 A.M. EDT
