---
category: press-briefings
date: '2021-09-24'
modified_time: 2021-09-24 08:35:49-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/09/24/background-press-call-by-senior-administration-officials-previewing-the-quad-leaders-summit-and-bilateral-meeting-with-india/
published_time: 2021-09-24 08:35:48-04:00
title: Background Press Call by Senior Administration Officials Previewing the Quad
  Leaders Summit and Bilateral Meeting with India
---
 
Via Teleconference

(September 23, 2021)

5:47 P.M. EDT

MODERATOR:  Thanks a lot, Grace.  And thanks, everyone, for joining us
this evening.

Just to set us off with some ground rules, this call is on background,
attributed to “senior administration officials.”  And the contents of
this call are embargoed until Friday, September 24th, at 6:00 a.m.  And
by joining this call, you are hereby agreeing to these ground rules.

In terms of the topic, the briefing is to preview the Quad Leaders
Summit tomorrow, as well as President Biden’s bilateral meeting with
Prime Minister Modi of India.

For your awareness, our briefers today are \[senior administration
officials\].  Here on out, they will be referred to as “senior
administration officials.” 

With that, I will turn it over to \[senior administration official\] to
start us off on the bilat for tomorrow.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks.  Thanks very much.  So,
President Biden is looking forward to his separate bilateral meeting
with Prime Minister Modi in the Oval Office on Friday morning ahead of
the Quad summit.

President Biden has spoken with Prime Minister Modi on the phone a
number of times and has been in virtual summits, but this is their first
in-person meeting and will cover a number of priority issues that India
is really front and center of, including pandemic response, their
response to climate change.  Will talk about technology issues, economic
cooperation and trade, as well as Afghanistan and new areas of
cooperation that both governments have been discussing. 

So, I’ll just give you — I’ll end with that overview and turn it over to
talk about the Quad.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thank you, \[senior administration
official\].  And thanks, \[senior administration official\].  And thanks
to all for joining today.  And we look forward to questions.

So, just very quickly, the President — the bilateral meeting will be in
the morning with Prime Minister Modi.  In the afternoon, the President
will welcome Prime Minister Modi, Prime Minister Morrison, and Prime
Minister Suga to the White House for the first-ever Quad in-person
meeting.

As you may recall, at the outset of the administration, the President
indicated that he wanted to take this institution — that’s an informal
gathering of leading democracies in the Indo-Pacific — and basically
lift it both to the leader level and to ensure that we are working
together to build better lines of communication and strengthening
cooperation and habits of cooperation amongst us. 

So, we had our virtual Quad summit in March, in which the leaders agreed
to take consequential steps on a variety of issues, most purposefully
the commitment to deliver a billion doses by the end of 2022 to
Southeast Asia, with investments in Indian vaccine capacity.  And we
will have detailed updates on efforts to meet that goal and specific
down payments for later this year.  We’ll talk more about that tomorrow.

It is also the case that I think the leaders are hopeful for an
opportunity in an intimate setting to sit down and talk about issues of
mutual interest and concern.  They’ll have discussions, as \[senior
administration official\] indicated, on critical issues that are
confronting the Indo-Pacific — issues associated with climate change,
with matters relating to COVID.

They’ll also talk about hopes for how to advance infrastructure.  I
think the Quad has been all about advancing areas of mutual interest,
cyber related.  We will be announcing new working groups on space.  We
will also announce a major fellowship that will bring students from
India, from Japan, from Australia, and the United States — a hundred in
total — over the course of the next year and a half to study in elite
universities in the United States, in areas related to science and
technology, as a clear signal of the importance of these issues to all
of our countries’ futures.

I think you will also see that the leaders are determined to pool our
unique capabilities, our resources, and our expertise to make common
challenges. 

I do want to underscore that the Quad is an unofficial gathering,
although we have a number of working groups and we are deepening
cooperation on a very daily basis.  It is also the case that it is not a
regional security organization.  We are going to address particular
issues associated with the challenges confronting the Indo-Pacific in
the current environment.  And I think that’s what the leaders want to
focus on tomorrow.

I think it’s also the case that, you know, I think President Biden
believes that too oftentimes, these kinds of discussions are scripted,
and he really wants to be able to sit down and have a deeper
conversation with all leaders in an environment where they can really
share perspectives on what’s important to each of them as they go
forward.

I don’t want to go on too long, but I do want to just underscore a
critical point.  I think all of you will have seen or heard the
President’s speech at the United Nations General Assembly earlier this
week when he underscored that, you know, we are coming out of a period
of really long and consequential conflicts, and we are now doubling down
on diplomacy. 

And what we are seeing is this is a clear and emblematic indication of
that strategy.  It also indicates that the Biden administration
understands that the challenges of the 21st century will largely play
out in the Indo-Pacific, and we are doubling down on our efforts. 

This Quad is part of a larger fabric of engagement that you will see —
that you’ve already seen evidence of with very high-level bilateral
engagements with security partners, other steps that we’ve taken.  And
we believe that the Quad will be a key and critical format and forum for
discussion and joint purpose as we head into a challenging period
ahead. 

So, all the leaders have arrived, and we’re very much looking forward to
the discussion tomorrow. 

I think what I would recommend is we take some questions, and then I can
go through a few of the deliverables as we go forward.  Does that make
sense?

MODERATOR:  Sounds good.  We can open it up for questions, and Grace can
give us instructions, please.

Q    Hey, guys, thanks for doing this call.  And I guess I am interested
in some of those deliverables, especially as Bloomberg.  On the economic
front, I know that there was talk during that virtual meeting of working
together on semiconductors.  So I’m wondering if there’s deliverables on
that front, but more broadly, what we can look forward to being
announced tomorrow.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Sure.  Well, let me just say: On
semiconductors, we will be announcing a supply chain initiative, and the
effort is really a detailed joint initiative to map overall capacity;
identify, you know, respective vulnerabilities; and to take critical
steps to bolster supply chain security, particularly for semiconductors
and all their vital components. 

I think the goal is to help ensure Quad partners help take their steps
to support at least a somewhat diverse and competitive market that
produces secure, critical technologies that are essential for digital
economies globally.  

We’re also going to announce a 5G deployment and diversification
effort.  And this is to support the critical role of Quad governments in
fostering and promoting a diverse, resilient, secure telecommunications
ecosystem.  And we’re launching an effort — sort of a 1.5 industry
dialogue — on Open RAN development and adoption.  So this is actually a
quite well-articulated game plan about how the four countries will work
together. 

I’ve already talked a little bit about the Quad fellowship.  This
fellowship is sponsored by private donors.  We will bring 100 students
per year — 25 from each Quad country — to pursue either a master’s or
doctoral degree at a leading STEM graduate university in the United
States.  I think that’s a big deal for us, and that’s a signature
initiative designed to indicate that we want and encourage Quad
countries to send their best students to work with us and to build those
lines of communication and coordination with young people.

We’ll have an initiative on space.  I think all four countries are
determined to work on joint efforts. 

We’re going to share information on illegal fishing, on issues
associated with maritime domain awareness. 

And, you know, we’ll also take steps to help monitor climate change and
promote a variety of issues associated with estuaries and fisheries —
fishing more generally. 

We have a robust cybersecurity effort underway with the State Department
that’s going to be enhanced at the leader level.  We’re going to try to
take steps to bolster critical infrastructure resilience against cyber
threats — something that’s plagued all four of our countries.  And we
are advancing a very high-level group on specific capabilities and
technologies.  

We’ve got, you know, some specific steps that we’re taking in climate:
green shipping network.  And this has to do with how to decarbonize what
we call the shipping value chain.  And we’re also taking specific steps
to work with ports in each of our countries to ensure that best
practices are followed with respect to decarbonizing efforts there as
well. 

I think we have a few things on infrastructure and health that we’re
going to wait until tomorrow.  And obviously, the vaccine deliverable
will be rolled out tomorrow afternoon.

Q    Yes, thank you very much.  I wanted to know why this call is only a
background — is only a preview call with — on the bilat with Modi and
not on the bilat with PM Suga as well. 

And then, PM Suga won’t seek reelection, effectively announcing his
resignation. Will the return to the constant change of prime ministers
impact the Quad in any way?  Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So, no, we’ve already given a short
readout on the meeting tomorrow.  I’m happy to give you some more
information. 

First of all, the President was very grateful that Prime Minister Suga
agreed to join this — what we think is a critical in-person Quad
summit.  The President will meet Prime Minister Suga tomorrow in the
White House.  He will be joined for part of that meeting by Dr. Jill
Biden, who is returning early from a trip.  I think very much he wants
to — she was hosted by Prime Minister Suga, very graciously, when she
represented the United States in the Opening Ceremonies.  And it is her
desire to join President Biden in doing several things. 

First, I think we want a serious conversation.  Prime Minister Suga has
some issues that he’d like to discuss, including recent efforts by
countries to potentially join CPTPP.  And I think he’d like to discuss
that with the President.  And the President is interested to hear
Japanese perspectives on next steps associated with economic engagement
in Asia.

I think it is also the case that, in addition to substantive discussion,
the President wants to thank Prime Minister Suga for being a terrific
partner.  As you know, he was the first official visitor to the White
House when President Biden invited leaders.  He has worked closely with
Japan in every endeavor, and we — I think what the President wants to
indicate is that he’s grateful for Prime Minister Suga’s leadership and
will promise to continue to work with whoever is elected as his
successor. 

So, you know, I think the President views this meeting as having a
couple of purposes.  One is, obviously, to have a discussion also about
COVID — the situation in Japan and the way forward — but just as
importantly, the President is — you know, he is a deeply human,
sentimental person, and I think it’s important to him to say to Prime
Minister Suga directly how important that engagement with him has been. 

And, frankly, you know, the fact that the First Lady is coming back to
meet with the Prime Minister, I think, speaks volumes. 

Does that — does that answer your question?

MODERATOR:  I think his line might be removed.  So we can go to the next
question. 

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  That’s all right.  Thank you. 

Q    Yes.  Hi.  Thank you so much for doing this call.  Could you speak
a little bit about the Quad relative to AUKUS?  And do you expect
leaders to discuss AUKUS at the summit tomorrow?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So, look, I think it’s important to
underscore these are two completely separate initiatives.  They really
have nothing to do with one another, even though there is some overlap
with Australia, obviously.

The Quad is a discussion and engagement effort around a number of
practical matters, like — we’ve discussed COVID and issues associated
with climate change.  There is not a military dimension to it or
security dimension to it.  And it is an informal grouping. 

And the AUKUS, obviously, has been underscored and discussed in other
venues.  I won’t go through those details here. 

I would expect that the discussions tomorrow will be wide ranging.  A
number of issues will come up.  This is relatively recent, so I would
imagine that leaders will be discussing a number of recent
developments. 

I think we’ve purposely given the leaders some indication of issues that
we think they should discuss, but at the same time, there will be a lot
of, you know, improvisation and opportunities to talk on what is on
particular leaders’ minds. 

Q    Hi.  Thank you so much for doing this call.  Maybe a quick
question.  As you know, there are some countries in the region that are
a bit suspicious of this Quad initiative; they see it as too aggressive
against China.  In particular, how do you think the Quad can articulate
who is ASEAN?  Will the two formats be in a competition?  How will that
work in the future?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So I think all Quad leaders are united
in a strong belief that the Quad is meant to be complementary to
existing institutions.  We understand all the importance of ASEAN.  You
will note that many of our initiatives are designed to support efforts
across ASEAN, including our vaccine efforts. 

I think you will hear, tomorrow, the leaders each talking about the
importance to remain open about all the things that we’re working on and
to be quite clear about what things that we’re not engaged in.  As I’ve
indicated, this is not a military alliance.  It’s an informal grouping
of democratic states that are all committed to a free and open
Indo-Pacific. 

I think over time, I think concerns have been dispelled.  And I believe
at a general level, this initiative is welcome across the region. 

Q    Thank you for doing the call this afternoon.  One of the things
that came up during the COVID summit at the White House and virtually
the other day on the sidelines of the U.N. meetings was Prime Minister
Modi mentioned the ongoing desire of India for the TRIPS waiver and for
more access to be able to manufacture vaccines. 

I know that’s not obviously — it’s a decision the U.S. would support.  I
know that’s the stated position of President Biden.  But is there
anything more on that front that either will be announced or that the
U.S. may be able to do to put pressure on?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So, I apologize, but, by agreement with
all four countries, the specific issues associated with what India is
going to commit to do and our specific deliverables with respect to
vaccines will be unveiled tomorrow at the Quad summit. 

So, I don’t really have anything further to say, but I agree that the
issues that you laid out will be part of what we will discuss and
advance.

Q    Yeah.  Hi, this is Andrea with NHK.  Thank you so much for taking
my question.  I wanted to see if you could share any details on the
timing of tomorrow’s meetings.  I know you said in the afternoon, but
I’m wondering specifically about the length of the Quad summit and why
that specific length will be chosen, given that it is four leaders
meeting.

And then, additionally, you mentioned that the President is — will be
hearing the Japanese Prime Minister’s perspective on TPP and econ
engagement.  Can you share some of President Biden’s current thoughts on
the applications from Taiwan and China to enter the partnership?  And
what exactly does he want?  And what exactly does he hope to hear from
the Prime Minister Suga?  Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, thanks.  I can give you some
general sense.  It’s — normally, we don’t really go into great details
about exact times.  I expect that the dialogue among the four leaders
will take a good part of the afternoon tomorrow.  There will be time for
a bilateral meeting between Prime Minister Suga and the President and,
as I indicated, with Dr. Biden.

Those sessions, frankly, are designed to be free flowing.  I think the
President has indicated that he doesn’t want to necessarily put an
artificial stop to them.  I think he wants to let them, you know, have
sort of a natural progression. 

After the meeting with President Biden, the Quad members will meet with
Vice President Harris for a detailed discussion on basically the
capacities associated with resilience in each of our countries and
compare notes on what we think is important as democracies go forward.

So, these will be substantial engagements.  And we’ve worked closely
with our Quad friends on all the issues associated with the various
details more generally. 

I think more than anything else, I think the President is interested to
hear from Prime Minister Suga his views on Indo-Pacific developments.  I
think he’s interested to hear exactly where he thinks Japan is going and
his recommendations for the United States’ continuing engagement in the
region, both in terms of specific diplomacy, infrastructure, economics,
and trade as well.

Q    Thanks very much.  The Malabar exercises went forward, including
all of the Quad members, and I wondered if at any point that might
expand to infantry exercises, especially given India’s concern about
China’s encroachment on what it considers its side of the border in
Ladakh and other parts of its northern border.

I’d also just like to hear why you think the Chinese forces are doing
that.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  \[Senior administration official\], why
don’t you start, and I can jump in later?  If you would, please,
\[senior administration official\].  Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Sure.  So, the Malabar exercise — you
know, it’s a great area of cooperation — has expanded in recent years,
regularized, and as you say, it includes all four countries.  I’m not
aware of any current discussion to go to infantry.

But the point is, I think as \[senior administration official\] laid out
at the top, developing these habits of cooperation and increasing just
sort of communication and thinking about different areas of
interoperability is quite important. 

\[Senior administration official\], do you want to take the second
question?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah.  I wonder if she could repeat it
again.  So is this the question about why — what do you think China is
thinking?  I didn’t quite get that.  And maybe you could repeat it. 
Thank you.

Q    What do you think the motivation is behind China’s encroachment on
India’s northern border and other borders in the region?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah.

Q    What is driving them?  Because Indian officials I speak to are
like, “We really don’t know what they’re trying to get at here, other
than making a point.”

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Well, look, I do want to just say that
the — you know, that our conversation today really is about the Quad. 

In other conversations we’ve talked, we have seen actions by China that
has ramped up tensions with neighbors.  It’s not unique to India; we’ve
seen it in other circumstances as well and — with Australia, with the
South China Sea.  And we’ve seen an increase in wolf warrior diplomacy
in Europe. 

And so, it’s difficult to tell exactly what the motivation is, but I can
assure you that Indian friends are very clear-eyed about both their
desire to make sure that they are working closely with — in
communication with China to try to avert these sorts of difficulties,
but also remaining resolute as well.

Q    Thank you.

MODERATOR:  All right, folks, thanks so much.  I think that has to be
our last question.  But thank you for joining us. 

And as a reminder on the ground rules: Today’s call is on background as
“senior ministration officials.”  And it’s embargoed until tomorrow,
Friday, 6:00 a.m. Eastern time.  Thank you.

6:14 P.M. EDT
