---
category: press-briefings
date: '2021-09-24'
modified_time: 2021-09-24 17:28:08-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/09/24/on-the-record-press-call-with-the-regional-reporters-association-by-white-house-coordinator-for-operation-allies-welcome-jack-markell-and-secretary-of-homeland-security-alejandro-mayorkas-on-operation/
published_time: 2021-09-24 17:28:07-04:00
title: On-the-Record Press Call with the Regional Reporters Association by White House
  Coordinator for Operation Allies Welcome Jack Markell and Secretary of Homeland
  Security Alejandro Mayorkas on Operation Allies Welcome
---
 
Via Teleconference

10:04 A.M. EDT

MS. DALTON:  Thank you, Alan.  And good morning, everybody.  Thanks for
joining today’s briefing call with White House Coordinator for Operation
Allies Welcome Jack Markell and Department of Homeland Security
Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas. 

Coordinator Markell and Secretary Mayorkas will offer a brief overview
today of where we are with Operation Allies Welcome and then be glad to
take your questions on the resettlement process for arriving Afghans. 

And just to be clear on the ground rules at the outset, the contents of
this call are on the record and embargoed for the conclusion of the
call. 

Finally, I just wanted to thank Regional Reporters Association President
Sarah Wire for working with us to organize today’s briefing with you
all. 

With that, I’ll turn it over to Governor Markell. 

GOVERNOR MARKELL:  Thank you, Olivia.  And good to be with Secretary
Mayorkas, who is just an incredible partner in all of this. 

As a former governor, and as the former chair of the National Governor’s
Association, I’m especially glad to be speaking with all of you about
Operation Allies Welcome.  And that’s because I’ve learned — I’ve
communicated with state and local leaders, with regional media, and with
Americans all across the country — about how we’re approaching the
resettlements of our Afghan allies safely and successfully into the
fabric of our society is just incredibly important. 

Before taking your questions, I want to explain a little bit about what
I’m doing here at the White House. 

The President has asked me to serve as White House Coordinator for
Operation Allies Welcome to ensure that we’re taking a whole-of-America
approach to safely and securely and effectively welcoming our Afghan
allies, as well as Afghans at risk.

In partnership with the National Security Council team at the White
House, I’ll coordinate the administration’s resettlement policy
development and catalyze its efforts to work with state and local
officials, with the private sector, veteran service organizations,
non-governmental organizations, and the like. 

I’m working closely with Secretary Mayorkas and with the Department of
Homeland Security’s Senior Response Official Bob Fenton, who is just
also extraordinary.  They are really the lead agency officials on
aspects of the interagency work on resettlement.  And their work has
been tireless, and I really appreciate their partnership.

Our paramount goal through Operation Allies Welcome is to create a safe,
dignified, and orderly process for resettling our Afghan allies, and to
be a strong partner to everyone and to every organization that wants to
help. 

The response from across the country has been overwhelming.  We’ve seen
that Americans are proud of so many Afghans who’ve supported us over the
past 20 years in Afghanistan, and believe that they deserve our support
in return.

And we have begun to witness an incredible outpouring of support from
veterans, from bipartisan leaders, the faith community, private sector
companies, the Afghan American diaspora, and Americans across the
country. 

They know that our Afghan allies will strengthen our communities, as
refugees and immigrants always have, bringing new life, new energy, and
new ideas to the places that they’ll now call home. 

I also want to emphasize — and I know this is front of mind for
Secretary Mayorkas — that the administration has established a number of
strong screening and vetting and public health measures to keep both our
citizens and our allies alike as safe as possible.

I’ll conclude by saying that this is a historic undertaking.  I’m proud
of the thousands of service members and government professionals, state
and local leaders, resettlement agencies, NGOs, and volunteers working
around the clock on Operation Allies Welcome.

And so, with that, I’m very happy to turn it over to Secretary Mayorkas
for some introductory remarks as well. 

SECRETARY MAYORKAS:  Thanks so very much, Governor.  And thanks,
everyone, for joining us and giving us this opportunity to provide
information to you. 

And let me just share my personal and professional pride in having the
opportunity, at this point, to work with Governor Markell, who has
stepped in to lead this effort across the country and is making this
effort shine.

We, in the department, are so proud to work with the Governor, and we
are honored to serve as the lead federal agency coordinating efforts
across the federal government to welcome vulnerable Afghans to our
nation in a way that’s consistent with our laws and our values. 

This mission really does reflect the best of who we are as a country. 
And we’re honored by the trust the President has placed in us.

We have undertaken — the United States has undertaken an historic
airlift of U.S. citizens, lawful permanent residents, Afghans who hold
Special Immigrant Visas, and vulnerable Afghans and their families.

We have put in place, as the Governor mentioned, a robust, multi-layered
screening and vetting process.  This department deployed approximately
400 personnel — from Customs and Border Protection, Immigration and
Customs Enforcement, Transportation Security Administration, United
States Coast Guard, and the United States Secret Service, to Bahrain,
Germany, Kuwait, Italy, Qatar, Spain, and the United Arab Emirates — to
conduct processing, screening, and vetting in coordination with the
Departments of Defense and State and other federal agencies, to include
the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the National Counterterrorism
Center, and additional intelligence community partners. 

All of us screen and vet individuals involving biometric and biographic
information.  And we conduct this screening and vetting with our
professionals who are expert in the process. 

If someone fails these checks while they are still overseas, they will
not be permitted to board a flight to the United States.  In addition,
all vulnerable Afghans are required to undergo the same process as other
persons arriving from outside the U.S., namely additional inspection
upon arrival and a secondary inspection as the circumstances require. 

If, upon landing in the United States, further security vetting at the
port of entry raises any concern about a person, Customs and Border
Protection has the authority to not grant them entry into the United
States.

I should also add that the screening and vetting process is a recurrent
one — ongoing. 

We are also undertaking extensive COVID-19 and other public health
precautions consistent with the Centers for Disease Control guidance. 
All arrivals — U.S. citizens, lawful permanent residents, and Afghan
nationals — are being tested for COVID-19 upon arriving in the United
States.  Afghan nationals who are paroled into the United States — the
means by which we admit them here are humanitarian discretionary
authority — are required to take the vaccinations for MMR, measles,
mumps, rubella, polio, and COVID-19, amongst others, as conditions of
their humanitarian parole. 

U.S. citizens and lawful permanent residents who have arrived are
returning directly to their home communities. 

The Department of Defense is providing temporary housing facilities for
SIV applicants and other vulnerable Afghans at eight installations:
Marine Corps Base Quantico, Virginia; Fort Pickett, Virginia; Fort Lee,
Virginia; Holloman Air Force Base, New Mexico; Fort McCoy, Wisconsin;
Fort Bliss, Texas; Joint Base McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst, New Jersey; and
Camp Atterbury, Indiana.

From there, each family will be connected with resettlement
organizations to help them begin their new lives here in America.  And
Governor Markell is leading an extraordinary effort with state and local
officials, non-profit organizations — all of civil society. 

And in that regard, I must say two things: Number one, it’s an
extraordinary sign of unity across America, in our outstretched arms, to
demonstrate to these individuals and to the world who we are and our
proudest traditions. 

And I want to say something about the Afghan nationals who arrived.  I
was at Fort Lee, and I spoke with the soldiers there, all of whom
consider this to be one of the greatest honors of their lives.  And they
spoke of the fact that, when a bus arrives from Dulles International
with Afghan nationals on it and people offboard the bus, the children
are handed a flag of the United States of America.  And the fathers —
their fathers instinctively place a hand over their hearts in gratitude
and in reverence for what this country has done for them: saved them,
provided them a place of refuge and a new home. 

And with that, I’ll turn it over for questions.

MS. DALTON:  Thank you, Secretary Mayorkas and Governor Markell.  Alan,
I think we’re ready to take some questions.

Q    Hi, thank you both for doing this call.  Philadelphia airport is
one of the airports receiving flights of evacuees — or has received
those flights.  And as you mentioned, Fort Dix is one of the bases that
are hosting people as they wait for placement.  I was wondering if you
could tell us why that airport was chosen, why that base.  And is there
something specific to the Philadelphia region that makes it, you know,
suitable for this purpose? 

And then, secondly, can you tell us how many people have arrived at
Philadelphia airport so far and how many have stayed in the Philadelphia
region?  Thank you.

SECRETARY MAYORKAS:  So, thanks very much for that question.  And I can
speak to the selection of the Philadelphia airport.  Operational
facility is really why we selected that, both with respect to our
capacity here in Customs and Border Protection’s Office of Field
Operations ability to work at the airport for the ease of the processing
of the Afghan nationals who are arriving, number one; and number two,
its proximity, in fact, to one of the facilities — the Department of
Defense — and that made it most efficient.

We have received, I believe, approximately 12,000 Afghan nationals at
the Philadelphia airport.  And we are, of course, still working on their
resettlement in the country.  And I’ll turn to see if Governor Markell
has any thoughts in that regard. Thank you.

GOVERNOR MARKELL:  Yeah.  So, let me say, first of all, we’ve — we’re
very appreciative that Governor Wolf has been, you know, so supportive,
frankly, as governors across the country have been at welcoming our
allies. 

He — and he said, you know, the state “has long served as a refuge for
those seeking peace and stability amid crisis and we’ll continue to help
in any way possible.”  And that is a — you know, it’s terrific, and I
think it reflects the spirit — the generous spirit of the people from
Pennsylvania. 

In terms of the Fort Dix part, it’s one of a number of bases all across
the country.  Texas, Indiana, Wisconsin, Virginia are some of the
others. 

So I think the Secretary explained we — you know, originally, a lot of
the folks were coming in through Dulles, but now a lot of that activity
has switched to Philadelphia, which will be the main hub for a bit
longer.

Q    Hi, thank you both for doing this call.  Secretary Mayorkas, some
Afghan interpreters who worked for the U.S. military say that they were
blacklisted arbitrarily by the contract companies that had hired them
for reasons including mixing up Afghan and U.S. calendars and missing a
flight.  And now those interpreters don’t qualify for SIV, despite the
support of their military supervisors.  And many of them are either
stuck in Afghanistan or have fled to other countries where they don’t
qualify for a path to citizenship.  Is this an issue that DHS is aware
of?  And is any solution being sought for those who have been
arbitrarily blacklisted?

SECRETARY MAYORKAS:  So, individuals have not been arbitrarily
blacklisted.  I would respectfully disagree.  In fact, when I was at
Fort Lee, I met with an immigration officer who had served in
Afghanistan in 2009, in 2010, had kept in touch with his interpreter
over the ensuing years, and had the privilege at Fort Lee to process the
immigration paperwork of his interpreter and the interpreter’s family.  
  
We have, in fact, processed quite a number of individuals who supported
our military.  And we have the means of learning of any issues, with
respect to individuals who are having difficulty accessing our
evacuation efforts, which I should say are ongoing.  And this is an
enduring commitment to make sure that we are able to assist individuals
remaining in Afghanistan who want and need to leave.   
  
So I’ll look forward to following up on that, and I certainly will. 
Thank you. 

Q    Hi, thanks.  I have a couple questions.  One thing I’ve heard from
both the community — obviously we have a large Afghan community in the
Bay Area — both the folks who have already come back and the members of
Congress who are helping them is: There is still a large number of
Americans or, you know, affiliated with Americans, family members still
stuck in Afghanistan and are very concerned about those individuals. 
And I’m wondering if there’s any updates on how you’re still going about
trying to get those folks out.   
  
And then, secondly, a lot of these individuals are not coming here with
a particular status.  They’re being granted, you know, some forms of
parole, and there’s concern about their long-term stability in the U.S.
without being able to access various things that require a more concrete
form of status.  And I’m curious if there are any further updates on
trying to reconcile that, you know, status issue for many of these
individuals.

SECRETARY MAYORKAS:  Yes.  If I may, I’ll take that.  The effort to
bring those in Afghanistan, those American citizens who want to leave —
the commitment to bring each and every one to the United States remains
and is lasting.  We have case managers assigned to any of those
individuals.  And we are working in an all-of-government effort to
actually bring them to the United States.  That is unrelenting.  Number
one.  
  
We are also very mindful of the fact that individuals who have arrived
here, who are paroled in, have lawful presence and do not have
necessarily an enduring solution with respect to their status.  However,
we have proposed legislation to grant them the functional status of
refugees for the purpose of providing them with a preliminary level of
sustenance that will assist in their resettlement, on the one hand.  And
on the other, they are able to apply for asylum and develop a path in
that manner.   
  
Thank you.

Q    If I may just ask a follow-up.  When you say the effort to bring
“American citizens who want to leave,” what does that mean for people
who might have a PR status or, you know, vulnerable family members?

SECRETARY MAYORKAS:  I’m sorry.  It’s a great, great point — a great
follow-up because I didn’t mean to be restrictive to United States
citizens.  That includes other populations, such as those whom you’ve
mentioned. 

Thank you.

  
GOVERNOR MARKELL:  This is Jack Markell.  Let me just add a couple of
points.  First of all, you mentioned conversations with Afghan
Americans.  We had a terrific call yesterday with the Afghan American
diaspora from across the country and are so grateful to them for, you
know, not just being at the table, but for really taking a lead.   
  
I also want to mention, sort of along the lines of the immigration
status and sort of reiterate a point that the Secretary just made: So,
we are very focused on doing everything we can to help make sure that
people who come over, not with the SIV status but who have been paroled
in, get the same level of benefits, including access to the federal
benefits, including support from our ORR — Refugee Resettlement — and
which is why, several weeks ago, the White House sent to Congress a
package to achieve exactly that.  We are hopeful that that will happen
because that’ll make, really, a huge difference for those individuals. 

The other thing I think might be helpful is just giving you a sense of a
— you know, some of the folks who came not with the SIV status and why
that might be.  And so, I have been — in the last couple of weeks, I
went to Fort Dix in New Jersey; I was at Quantico earlier this week;
also went to one of the resettlement agencies earlier this week in
Northern Virginia.   
  
So, I’ve had a chance to meet a lot of people, including people who I
would just walk up to at Quantico, just, you know, to understand their
stories.   
  
So, here are a couple of examples: I met a woman who was a doctor with
USAID in Afghanistan.  She did not realize that the eligibility period
to get an SIV had been shortened to a year, so she was one month short
of the prior two-year requirement to apply.  So this is, first, somebody
who was absolutely deserving of SIV but came into the country without
that status.  And we’re looking to change that.  
  
Another guy I met had worked with us for more than five years, clearly
qualified for SIV, never bothered to apply for it because, frankly, he
never imagined leaving his mother in Afghanistan.  But when it became
unsafe for him to stay, he decided to come.  So it’s another example of
somebody who is entitled to SIV.   
  
And so — and there are a lot — there are just an incredible number of
stories like that, and I think it provides some valuable context to
understand who many of these folks are.

Q    Hi, thank you very much.  Mr. Secretary or Governor, we had 75
Afghan children arrive in Chicago a few days ago.  Question one: When
will the next arrivals come?  Will they be children?  Is this part of
the 830 — or 860 that we’re told number of refugees who are in the first
wave?  And I have a quick follow-up.

GOVERNOR MARKELL:  All right.  I don’t know all the answers.  Let me —
let me tell you what I do know, and then, Secretary, you might be able
to add to that.

So, specifically to your question about when will additional folks
arrive, let me — because you asked sort of what the — when will that be,
and I think you asked about the process.

So —

Q    I want to know first when.  Can you just tell me if it’s soon? 
Today?  And then I want to hear about process.

GOVERNOR MARKELL:  Yeah, so, I don’t know that it’s going to be today. 
And I sort of have to explain the process to sort of — to answer the
timing as well in the following way: 

So, we have — we have, you know, 50,000 — a little more than 50,000
people at the military bases in the United States — military bases, as
the Secretary mentioned earlier — and we have more people, another 12-
or 13,000, coming in early October from the military bases in Europe.

And so, then, the real — so the question is, how do those folks then get
resettled into communities across the country?  That is a process that
involves the nine major resettlement agencies across the country who
then have a couple hundred of affiliates — again, all over the country.

The decisions about where these individuals will be resettled is made by
the local affiliates in consultation with the local community.  How many
kids can be supported in the school?  What’s —

Q    Right.  But we know that.  Only because we don’t have a lot of
time, bear with me, okay?  But DHS does have a capacity to know, as well
— I know, and I am dealing with the people in the state of Illinois.  I
want to know what you know and what you can tell us about what your —
what the agencies in Illinois who are on the ground are going to be
dealing with.  If you don’t know, that’s fine; I’ll move on.

SECRETARY MAYORKAS:  Let me — let me — Governor, may I — may I jump in
and — ma’am, let me — I’m not familiar with the number that you
mentioned of unaccompanied children that — the figure that I have is
58. 

And let me explain to you why —

Q    Oh, really?  That’s (inaudible) it’s 58?  Okay.

SECRETARY MAYORKAS:  But that’s — that’s the information that I have. 
And it is my understanding that that flight, which was to Illinois, was
an exception.  And that exception was made because these children
already had sponsors identified in the United States.  And that was
operationally the most facile way to seek — to obtain the reunification
of these children, or the unification of these children with their
sponsors.

Q    Okay.  That makes sense.  Okay.  These are exc- — see, it would be
nice to know this.  Please.  This is vital information to tell reporters
in the area so we can explain the story.  Please, as we go through this,
this is vital that this is the exception here.

Okay.  Question two.  Governor Pritzker — this is a welcoming state —
can do more than the 860.  He could do thousands more, but he wants
federal help.  What’s the story on federal help coming to Illinois?

GOVERNOR MARKELL:  Well, I mean, the story — and again, I mean, the
federal help, as we’ve discussed it with the resettlement agencies, is
largely around the passage of the additional benefits for people who are
being paroled into the country.  And that’s, as I mentioned earlier, the
access to federal benefits like Medicaid, SNAP, TANF, assistance from
the Office of Refugee Resettlement.

We are quite hopeful that that is going to pass, you know, shortly in
Congress.  And that will be a significant additional help.  But we do
expect when that passes, that the numbers that states across the country
have identified as being what they can accommodate, we do expect that
that will go up.

SECRETARY MAYORKAS:  And there’s something very important also that the
Governor has really spearheaded that complements that, which is — and
something to which we both referred — which is the civil society effort
that is underway.  Speaking — both the Governor and I have spoken with
business leaders, community-based organizations that have offered their
assistance and, in fact, already begun to execute on that assistance,
whether it’s finding jobs and matching Afghan nationals with employment
opportunities, to working on housing and other sustenance needs. 

Thank you.

GOVERNOR MARKELL:  In fact, let me point you to Welcome.US, which is a
civil society effort that has been stood up, bipartisan, and it’s a
place where Americans across the country can go to sign up to extend
their offer to sponsor families, to give money, to do all kinds of
things, and we’re very appreciative of that effort.

OPERATOR:  Ladies and gentlemen, due to time constraints, we have no
further time for questions.  However, questions that were not answered,
can be provided by email to Sarah Wire so we can follow up. 

We’ll turn it back over to your host for closing.

MS. DALTON:  Thanks, Alan.  And just to clarify, if we didn’t get to
your question today, I will give my — make sure to give my email to
Sarah Wire so that folks can direct those to us here in the — in
Governor Markell’s office, and we’ll make sure to follow up with you
individually.

So, thank you again for joining today’s call and look forward to staying
in touch.

SECRETARY MAYORKAS:  Thank you all.

10:35 A.M. EDT
