---
category: press-briefings
date: '2021-09-16'
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/09/16/background-press-call-on-the-administrations-climate-policy/
published_time: 2021-09-16 09:27:12-04:00
title: "Background Press Call on the Administration\u2019s Climate\_Policy"
---
 
Via Teleconference

3:35 P.M. EDT

MODERATOR:  Hello, everyone.  Welcome to a briefing on the
administration’s climate policy.  Today, our on-background call will
have as its speaker \[senior administration official\]. 

As this call is on background, for the purpose of this call, our speaker
will be referred to as a “senior administration official.”  The contents
of the call and the material sent to the RSVPs are embargoed until the
release of the content this afternoon.  It should be at the end of the
call, but if you could just wait until the release, that would be
great. 

We’ll start with comments from our speaker and then open it up for
question and answer.  If you have not received the embargoed materials,
feel free to email the press distro.  Other than that, I’ll turn it over
to our speaker.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Great.  Thank you so much.  And good
afternoon, everyone.  The purpose of this call is to let everyone know
that the President will be reconvening the Major Economies Forum on
energy and climate change, known as the “MEF,” at the leader level, for
the second time during his administration. 

We last met earlier this year on April 22nd — on Earth Day — for the
first reconvening of this group in more than over a decade, with the
objective of strengthening our climate ambitions heading into the 26th
U.N. climate conference, known as COP26, this November, which will be
taking place in a few short weeks — six short weeks away.

A key part of this meeting is really to have a candid conversation among
these world leaders to talk about what more needs to happen before
Glasgow and beyond.  He’s going to press again for stronger action and
lay out plans for how we continue to drive action immediately next year
and beyond.

Since the last time these leaders have met in this forum, a lot has
happened both here in the U.S., as well as around the world.  Most
notably, coming into this meeting, we are all very cognizant of the
recently released IPCC report — the Working Group I report on a sixth
assessment in August that was released.  And it found very key, stark
findings regarding atmospheric carbon dioxide levels being at the
highest in over 2 million years, and it simply raises an urgency for our
collective action.

This meeting also takes place on the heels of the President’s trip this
past week and a half, where he traveled to five states to survey damage
caused by extreme weather fueled by the climate crisis and declared this
a “code red” moment. 

So, just wanted to start there as the framing comments for the upcoming
meeting taking place on Friday.

Back to you, \[senior administration official\]. 

Q    Hi, everybody.  Thanks so much for holding this call.  I wanted to
ask, first of all, about the new methane commitment that the U.S. and
the EU have reached and confirm that it is going to be a third — or
nearly third reduction by 2030.  I’m curious for more details on that. 
What other countries, if any — are there other countries specifically
that you guys want to see sign on?

And secondly, curious if you can all detail any new climate finance
provisions that the U.S. will be laying out internationally.  Thank you
very much.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Great.  Thank you so much.  As I noted
at the top, the IPCC is a key report in its findings coming into this
meeting.  And in that report, as well as the subsequent one — the recent
Global Methane Assessment — it shows that methane is obviously, as we
all know — if you’re all climate science reporters or in this space —
that methane is a powerful, short-lived climate pollutant that already
accounts for about half a degree of warming.

Rapidly reducing methane emissions may be the single-most effective
strategy to keep the 1.5-degree limit within reach, in terms of
near-term actions one can take.  And because of those reasons and
because of its powerful potent greenhouse gas and — reducing it could be
very effective in the near term. 

We are grateful to be working with the European Union and partner
countries towards a collective global goal.  And I’d like to underscore
that it is a collective global goal to significantly reduce methane
emissions. 

And we will be a part of the discussion on Friday, so we look forward to
sharing more with you on Friday about the countries that are partnering
with us in this pledge — in, again, this global collective pledge — and
how it will feature in the discussion taking place on Friday. 

Oh, sorry.  And then regarding on climate finance, as you know, the U.S.
has at the (inaudible) on climate change, stepped up to take a very
ambitious target around climate finance, and has heard from others
around the world the need for all of us to continue to increase our
ambition around climate finance, and the U.S. is taking a look at that. 

Q    Hey, thanks so much for doing this with us.  First, I was wondering
if you could tell us who else you expect to attend, if — I mean, if
other heads of state will be virtually attending or who is sort of part
of this. 

And then, you know, you described the importance of the Major Economies
Forum in, sort of, building up ambitions ahead of COP.  This meeting is
obviously virtual.  There’s a lot of, you know, calls now to postpone
COP26, given the Delta variant and the challenges that that creates for
a lot of countries. 

Do you, at this point, feel that that conference needs to take place in
November and needs to take place in person?  Or are you open, at this
point, to doing with that conference what you’re doing with the Major
Economies Forum and do it virtually?  Thanks.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Great, thank you so much for that — for
those questions.  Can you just repeat the first part of your question
again?

Q    Yeah.  Who will — who else will —

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Oh, countries —

Q    — participate (inaudible)?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So, I don’t have — we don’t have
anything to — we are still receiving RSVPs, and we can share more on
that later.  And we’ll be able to share that after the conclusion of the
meeting.  We’ll be doing a (inaudible) summary of a readout in the
meeting that we can share with — with who will be participating. 

We are going for — it’ll be leader level only.  I can confirm that. 

Q    Thank you.  That’s helpful. 

Q    Hi.  Thank you so much for doing this.  I want to circle back to
the question about climate finance that came up in a call earlier today
that U.N. officials did.  And in talking about Friday’s session, they
see what the White House is putting together as an opportunity for the
industrialized companies — countries of the world to come forward with
more concrete offerings to make climate action work for the rest of the
world. 

So, I’m wondering — you know, you said you’d just be taking a look at
that, and I’m kind of wondering if there’s any chance that we’ll see
dollar amounts, you know, commit — like concrete commitments of money
that the U.S. and other industrialized nations will put up for this
effort.  And in lieu of that, what could possibly make Friday’s session
a success?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  The Friday session is — as we have done
before — it’s just really about the President bringing together world
leaders to demonstrate how we’re trying to build habits of cooperation
on international climate issues by making climate a key foreign policy
and national security priority.  He really wants to be able to convene
world leaders on a regular basis and create these habits of discussion
for — candid discussions and formal discussions — and among a
(inaudible) set of factors and players.

This is — will be — this will not be livestreamed.  So, unlike the April
summit, which was livestreamed and publicly viewable, this will not be. 
This will not be in that vein, because this is really about having an
opportunity to sit down virtually — again, given COVID — with our
colleagues to talk about what we can be doing as the major economies and
major emitters, which obviously starts first and foremost with taking
ambitious action to reduce our emissions. 

And so, whether it’s updating your — and enhancing your nationally
determined contribution, which has always been a top ask; whether it’s
taking sectoral actions or collective targets — taking on collective
targets to sectoral actions to reduce sectors, such as the hard-to-abate
sectors — industrial emissions, power sector, transportation — it really
is an opportunity to do a quick stocktake of that. 

The U.S. administration has made a lot of progress in the last several
months on many of those sectors, including the executive order the
President had signed that set new, ambitious targets to make half of all
new vehicles sold in 2030 zero-emissions vehicles, including battery
electric, plug-in hybrid electric, or fuel-cell electric vehicles.

And so, to talk about the progress we’re making on things like that, the
Hydrogen Earthshot — which would tackle industrial emissions as well —
and reducing and decarbonizing that space, this is an opportunity for
countries to come to the table to talk about what they’re doing on
emission reduction. 

Specific to the finance question that you raised, again, you know, we
are all talking about what we can do to mobilize greater private
capital, greater public sector dollars. 

Secretary Yellen convened the multilateral development banks earlier
this year to talk about what more they can be doing, and cooperating and
collaborating with them.

And so, this has always been a conversation and part of the discussions
we have, but this is — again, the nature of the meeting is not such that
we are having countries publicly announce or commit things, given that
the nature is not a livestreamed summit or anything like that.

I do just want to — I realize I skipped your previous colleague’s
question about the COP26 and in-person.  As you may have heard already,
we believe that COP26 is a pivotal moment for the world to come together
to tackle climate crisis.  So, we support the aim of an in-person COP,
provided it can be done safely and equitably, and we look forward to
joining all countries in a safe, inclusive COP.

Q    Hi.  Thanks for doing this today.  Also, a two-parter.  Can you
talk about — I mean, what’s the area that’s proving the biggest
challenge right now?  Is it around, you know, the short-term goals and
getting countries on a 1.5-degree path, or is it something else?  Where
is sort of the most distance among the G20 and MEF countries right now?

Secondly, could you also speak to what you’re going to be discussing, if
anything, around coal — coal financing at the MEF?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Great, thank you.  In terms of the
biggest challenge that we’re finding going into the climate nego- — into
the COP26 negotiations, I would say it is ensuring that all leaders and
all major economies are coming to COP26 with the — not only the feeling
of the greater urgency instilled in all of us from the IPCC, but with
tangible and concrete actions to demonstrate what we’re doing to respond
to that urgency.

And that is, first and foremost, demonstrating what we’re doing to
further our commitments and actions through enhanced NDCs, as well as
what are some of the sectoral contributions and actions we can take in
this decisive decade to demonstrate that, in 2021, we kicked off this
decade of action with true, concrete ways of implementing — whether
that’s policy, finance, and other types of commitments — to collective
goals, such as targets around methane, for instance.

The second part of your question was on what else would be discussed at
this summit regarding — this meeting, rather –regarding coal.  We don’t
necessarily see a strong focus in this particular conversation around
coal.  As you know, at the last G7 meeting, both the leader-level
meeting, we made a very strong position at the G7 to end our public
financing of unabated coal as G7 leaders.

We then had the G20 Environment, Climate, and Energy Ministers Meeting,
where you saw that coal was a key part of that discussion.  And,
frankly, it was noted that it was going to be an area for further
discussion among leaders.

So, really, through the G20 context, which our sherpa is currently in
Italy, right now, having many of these discussions. I believe tomorrow
is Climate Day for the sherpas.  You know, they are actively discussing
this topic through that forum and that venue.  The MEF meeting is really
focused around what, for this upcoming meeting, is — going into COP26 —
what are these leaders talking about in terms of how we’re stepping up
our ambition going into COP26, but also going through Glasgow.

I think it’s really important, given where we are in 2021, in this year,
for the leaders to talk about and start to have their eyes sighted on
plans to leverage the MEF post-Glasgow, as a launchpad for collective,
concrete efforts to scale up climate ambition through the decade, and to
really make sure that leaders are having forward-looking discussions
about what a forward-looking COP could look like, and then continuing to
strengthen that ambition post-Glasgow.

So, this MEF forum, as those who have followed us in the past, this is
not a new construct; the MEF has existed before.  It only met once at
the leader level, over a decade ago, before President Biden has — has
decided to reconvene them earlier this year and again this year.  So, we
really want to use the MEF mechanism as a great forum and a conversation
— a productive one — for leaders to have these discussions on a range of
topics.

And for this upcoming MEF, it’ll really be centered around these
near-term actions, COP actions, and using as a launchpad for collective
and concrete efforts through Glasgow.

MODERATOR:  Thanks so much.  And with that, that concludes the
question-and-answer and our call.  As a reminder, the contents are
embargoed until the end of the call, so now. 

And if you’ve not received the embargoed materials, feel free to email
the press distro or myself.  And if you have any other questions or
weren’t able to get your question on, we’re happy to get the answers as
well.

Thank you so much, and have a great day.

3:50 P.M. EDT
