---
tags: press-briefings
date: '2021-09-10'
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/09/10/press-briefing-by-white-house-covid-19-response-team-and-public-health-officials-55/
published_time: 2021-09-10 17:50:38-04:00
title: "Press Briefing by White\_House COVID-\u206019 Response Team and Public Health\_\
  Officials"
---
 
Via Teleconference 

11:37 A.M. EDT  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Good morning, and thanks for joining us.  Before I turn to
Drs. Walensky, Fauci, and Murthy I want to reinforce the importance of
the six-part “Path Out of the Pandemic” action plan President Biden
announced yesterday.  
  
Stepping back, the more transmissible Delta variant is driving a surge
in cases, and this remains a pandemic of the unvaccinated.  
  
We know that vaccinations are the best way to beat this pandemic. 
That’s why, from day one, we’ve been working tirelessly to get shots in
arms and we have made significant lifesaving progress.   
  
Safe, effective, and free vaccines are readily available to everyone. 
Nearly 75 percent of eligible Americans — those 12 and older — have
gotten at least their first shot.  And now over 177 million Americans
are fully vaccinated — that’s up from just 2 million when the President
took office.  
  
And the pace of vaccinations has picked up: 14 million people rolled up
their sleeves and got their first shot in August — 4 million more than
in the month of July.  
  
Thanks to the success of our vaccination program and the resources
provided by the American Rescue Plan, we are in a much stronger position
than when the country experienced case surges in the past.  
  
But we have more to do.  The President’s action plan builds on the work
we’ve been doing since day one of his presidency.  It’s aggressive, it’s
comprehensive, and it will drive additional progress this fall by
getting more people vaccinated, keeping schools open and our economy
growing, and decreasing hospitalizations and deaths.  
  
Getting more people vaccinated is the cornerstone of this plan.  
  
After President Biden announced vaccination requirements for federal
workers in July, hundreds of small, medium, and large businesses;
healthcare systems; colleges and universities; school districts; and
state and local governments have stepped up to follow his lead and adopt
requirements covering tens of millions of Americans.  
  
Yesterday, the President dramatically expanded the reach of vaccination
requirements, requiring — through a rule OSHA is developing — that all
businesses with 100 or more employees ensure every worker is either
fully vaccinated or gets tested at least one time a week; requiring all
workers in most healthcare settings that receive Medicaid or Medicare to
be fully vaccinated; requiring all federal executive branch employees
and all employees of federal contractors to be fully vaccinated; and
requiring all Head Start educators and teachers and staff of all
federally run schools to be fully vaccinated.  
  
So, from private sector employees, to healthcare workers, to educators
and teachers, to federal employees and contractors, the President is
covering over 100 million workers with vaccination requirements.  A
hundred million workers — that’s two thirds of all workers in
America.   
  
And the President’s vaccination requirements are becoming the standard
for American workers across the country.  Vaccination requirements have
been around for decades for diseases like polio, smallpox, and measles. 
They’re widely supported, and importantly, they’re proven to work.  
  
We know that private and public sector institutions that have adopted
vaccination requirements have seen significant increases in the
vaccination rates in short order.  
  
That’s why, since the President addressed the nation last evening,
you’ve seen a chorus of public and private sector institutions all come
out in support of the President’s plan.  
  
The American Medical Association and the National Nurses Union endorsed
what they called the President’s “robust” plan.  
  
The Business Roundtable, which represents more than 200 businesses that
employ a total of 20 million workers, welcomed the President’s
announcements.  
  
And the Republican Governor of Vermont, Phil Scott, also applauded the
President’s plan.  
  
Vaccination requirements will help make employees, workplaces, and
communities safer, and help accelerate our path out of the pandemic.  
  
In addition to vaccinations, the President’s plan calls for more
testing.  Testing allows us to quickly detect cases and prevent
outbreaks.  That’s why, as we accelerate the pace of vaccination, the
President’s plan also ramps up the availability of testing across the
country by using the Defense Production Act to accelerate the production
of rapid tests; by investing $2 billion to procure 280 million rapid
point-of-care and at-home COVID tests; by expanding the reach of the
free pharmacy testing program to 10,000 local pharmacies around the
country; and by sending 25 million free at-home tests to 1,400 community
health centers and hundreds of food banks.  
  
Walmart, Amazon, and Kroger will also sell at-home testing kits at cost
for the next three months.  
  
Together, these steps will ensure that every American, no matter their
income level, will have easy access to convenient tests.  
  
As we boost vaccinations and increase testing, we’re also doing
everything we can to keep kids safely in school.   
  
Earlier this morning, the President, the First Lady, and Secretary
Cardona visited a middle school here in Washington, D.C., to see
firsthand the steps the school is taking to ensure kids are safe and in
the classroom.  They’re doing what works, including vaccinations,
masking, and testing.  
  
We have provided all schools throughout the country over $130 billion
through the American Rescue Plan to implement these very strategies. 
There is simply no excuse for failing to do so.  This isn’t about
politics; it’s about protecting our kids.  
  
And as the President has made very clear, we stand with the school
district leaders, educators, and parents who are doing right by kids. 
And we’ll take on those who are standing in the way.  
  
Last, we continue to support states and improve care for those who get
COVID.  
  
Since July, our whole-of-government COVID-19 Surge Teams have worked to
support 18 states as they battle Delta, deploying nearly 1,000 personnel
including doctors, nurses, paramedics, and hundreds of critical supplies
like ventilators and ambulances to support strained health systems, and,
importantly, shipping over 1 million doses of lifesaving monoclonal
antibody treatments.  
  
Yesterday, the President announced additional actions, including
doubling the number of military health teams deploying to hospitals
around the country and increasing the average weekly pace of shipments
of the lifesaving monoclonal antibody treatments by another 50 percent
in September.  
  
I want to close with this: From day one, the President committed to the
American people that he would marshal a wartime effort to lead us out of
the pandemic.  That’s exactly what he’s done.  
  
The aggressive actions he outlined yesterday build on the progress we’ve
made and will accelerate our path out of the pandemic.  
  
With that, over to Dr. Walensky.  
  
DR. WALENSKY:  Thank you, Jeff.  And good morning.  Let’s begin with an
overview of the data.   
  
Our seven-day average is about 136,000 cases per day.  And our seven-day
average of hospital admissions is about 11,750 per day.  Our seven-day
average of daily deaths continues at over 1,000 per day.  
  
As the President said yesterday, we are working across the federal
government and across the Department of Health and Human Services to
turn the corner on this pandemic.   
  
Today, I want to share with you the ways that CDC continues to be
actively engaged in this work.  
  
As you have heard me say before, we must do all we can to protect our
children and to keep them safe, in school, for in-person learning.  
  
We know what we need to do, and CDC has provided clear evidence-based
guidance for schools to follow.  This includes universal masking of
students, teachers, staff, and visitors to schools, regardless of
vaccination status; making sure that schools work to improve
ventilation; implementing school screening testing programs; and making
sure that those who are eligible are vaccinated.   
  
And we have resources and toolkits to implement these measures.  CDC
stands ready to provide technical assistance for schools and
jurisdictions who request our help.  
  
Over the past two weeks, I’ve shared with you data from CDC and our
public health partners that demonstrate the important role of
vaccination in protecting children.  Communities with higher vaccination
rates have lower reported emergency department visits and
hospitalizations for children with COVID-19, even children who cannot be
vaccinated themselves.  
  
The President’s actions to increase vaccinations among teachers and in
the community, and to financially support schools in upgrading their
protections, will help keep our children safe and our schools open.  
  
CDC is also working hard with so many of you and so many of our partners
to make sure that all eligible Americans are vaccinated.   
  
We continue to study and report on vaccine effectiveness and vaccine
safety.  Today, we will publish a study in the MMWR that looks at
COVID-19 cases, hospitalizations, and deaths in 13 states and offers
further evidence of the power of vaccination.  
  
In this study, over 600,000 COVID-19 cases from April through mid-July
were evaluated and linked to vaccination status.  Looking at cases over
the past two months, when the Delta variant was the predominant variant
circulating in this country, those who were unvaccinated were about four
and a half times more likely to get COVID-19, over 10 times more likely
to be hospitalized, and 11 times more likely to die from the disease.  
  
As the President reiterated yesterday, and as we have shown study after
study: Vaccination works.  CDC will continue to do all we can do to
increase vaccination rates across the country by working with local
communities and trusted messengers, and providing vaccine confidence
consults to make sure that people have the information they need to make
an informed decision about vaccination  
  
The bottom line is this: We have the scientific tools we need to turn
the corner on this pandemic.  Vaccination works and will protect us from
the severe complications of COVID-19.  It will protect our children and
allow them to stay in school for safe in-person learning.   
  
Thank you.  I’ll now turn things over to Dr. Fauci.  
  
DR. FAUCI:  Thank you very much, Dr. Walensky.  I’d like to spend a
couple of minutes talking about variants, which have recently been the
subject of some discussion and concern.   
  
This slide shows the selected SARS-CoV-2 variants with the lineage
determination on the right — the B and the C — and the new WHO Greek
letters on the left.  We’re going to focus for the next minute or so on
the Delta variant.   
  
Next slide.   
  
As you can see from this slide, this variant has become extraordinary in
its ability to dominate among the isolates in the United States and
worldwide.  Note that in June, just a few months ago, it comprised about
13 percent of the isolates, whereas now it is about 99 percent of the
isolates.  This becomes relevant when one thinks in terms of other
variants that are becoming of interest to people.  
  
Next slide.   
  
I refer specifically to the Mu variant, the B.1.621 and the C.1.2, which
is yet to get a Greek letter determination.   
  
Very quickly — next slide — let’s take a look at the Mu variant first. 
It was identified in December of 2020.  It was detected first in South
America, and it accounts for a large proportion of the isolates, for
example, in Colombia.  The reason it was brought to attention: it had a
number of mutations that were of interest.  But when you look at the
effect of antibodies against these mutations, it is not a matter of
alarm in that although it diminishes somewhat the protection, it falls
well within the range of Delta and Beta.  But importantly, only 0.5
percent of the isolates in the United States are Mu.   
  
And if you look at the lower right, you can see how Delta, in blue,
dominates over Alpha, in orange, and completely dominates over Mu, in
green.   
  
Next slide.   
  
Again, the C.1.2 variant, first noted in South Africa, is not seen at
all yet in the United States.  And again, if you look in the lower
right, the Delta dominates the Beta, which was the original variant that
was in South Africa.  And again, the C.1.2 variant is not seen in the
United States.   
  
Next slide.   
  
So the bottom line of all of this: The prevalence of the Mu and the
C.1.2 variant is extremely low in the United States — 0.5 percent for
Mu, and nothing for the C.1.2 — because the Delta variant continues to
dominate.   
  
As always, we will continue to closely monitor these and other emerging
variants.  But the most important thing we can do to protect against any
variant, be it Delta, Mu, or C.1.2, is to get vaccinated, which has
always been our predominant message.   
  
I’ll now hand it over to Dr. Murthy.  
  
SURGEON GENERAL MURTHY:  Well, thank you so much, Dr. Fauci.  As you’ve
heard from all of us already, the Delta plan that the President
announced yesterday is going to be pulling on every lever the federal
government has to respond to the virus.  And helping more people get
vaccinated is one of the key strategies in this plan.   
  
We’ve always known that in order to do that, we have to help people feel
confident that getting vaccinated is the right choice for them and for
their families.  And when it comes to making important choices, we know
that all of us often look to each other, to our family, to our doctors,
to our neighbors, and friends, and work colleagues.   
  
And that is why several months ago, we announced that we were building
the COVID-19 Community Corps, which was intended to help mobilize
trusted voices so people could get information from sources they
traditionally rely on.  This Community Corps will be more important than
ever in the months ahead.   
  
Now, since we started in the spring, the Community Corps has picked up a
lot of momentum.  Today, there are more than 15,000 members strong,
representing over 6,000 organizations in all 50 states and the District
of Columbia.  They include doctors and nurses, teachers and ministers,
friends and neighbors.   
  
But in addition to the grassroots work they do in their communities,
they’ve also come together from time to time on calls to hear the most
up-to-date information about the COVID-19 vaccines, to learn about new
developments in the vacc- — in the COVID-19 response effort, and to also
share best practices for their outreach.   
  
Just this week, President Obama came to speak with the Corps and shared
his appreciation for the community-organizing work that they’re doing:
knocking on doors, making phone calls, texting friends, and reaching out
to folks in their community.   
  
I want to share some of the ways that our COVID-19 Community Corps
members have been helping people to get vaccinated.   
  
First, we’ve seen extraordinary efforts in Native and rural communities,
which are often located much farther from large hospitals and other
healthcare providers.  The nonprofit Partners in Health has engaged the
Navajo Nation and other rural communities through mobile vans, phone
calls, radio ads, and door-to-door canvassing.   
  
In South Central Texas, Cuero Regional Hospital developed the campaign
called “What’s Your Why?” that helps people share their motivations for
getting vaccinated.   
  
And organizations in Kentucky — at the University of Kentucky and St.
Clair Medical Center — have worked with local partners, from schools, to
churches, small businesses to help people share encouraging messages
about the vaccines across the Appalachia region.  They’ve hired
healthcare workers who connect folks not only to COVID-19 vaccines, but
also to preventive screenings, resources to help manage chronic disease,
and information about childhood immunizations, which many kids have
fallen behind on during the pandemic.   
  
These are just a few of many examples where the COVID-19 vaccine
outreach effort has been a bridge to broader healthcare access.   
  
The secondary I’d like to highlight is the work our Community Corps
partners are doing with parents and youth, especially as kids go back to
school.  The organization Immunize Nevada recently hosted an all-day
back-to-school vaccination event.   
  
In Texas, the group VaxTogetherAustin has hosted more than a dozen free
vaccine clinics this summer, many of them at local schools.  One of
their recent events called “Back-to-School Shots” vaccinated 225
people.  
  
I want to emphasize that every single vaccination is a win; it’s one
more person protected against the Delta variant.  And all of these
conversations that our Community Corps members have been having, even
those that don’t end in vaccination, are essential to this effort.   
  
We’ve learned also that you don’t have to have a degree in medicine or
public health to have these conversations.  For example, one of our
standout community leaders is 12-year-old Ayaan Moledina, who recently
hopped on his bike and ventured out into the Texas heat to hand out
flyers about COVID-19 vaccines.  He said, “My bike broke down many times
but I persisted and finished all my deliveries.”  We’re so grateful for
Ayaan and for everyone who has reached across boundaries of age, race,
religion, and neighborhood to help people get vaccinated.  
  
These stories are the direct result of an ongoing investment in the
power of local, trusted voices to reach fellow Americans.  It’s a
strategy that works.  And I’m so grateful for all that Americans have
done, all the doors they’ve knocked on, the phone numbers they’ve
dialed, and ultimately the lives they’ve saved.  It’s going to be more
important than ever that we continue these efforts as we work to defeat
Delta and end this pandemic for good.   
  
Thanks for your time.  And I’ll pass it back to Jeff.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Well, thank you, Doctors.  Let’s open it up for a few
questions.  
  
MODERATOR:  All right, first question — and please keep your questions
very short, as we’re limited on time — Brenda Goodman at WebMD.  
  
Q    Hi, I’m just wondering about the timeline for implementing the
President’s plan, especially the emergency rule at OSHA.  How long is
that expected to take, and how long will it be enforced?  And then also,
what is the ultimate goal of this new plan?  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Well, I think in terms of the ultimate goal: It’s to
accelerate our path out of the pandemic; to get as many people that are
not vaccinated, vaccinated, as soon as possible; to safely keep our
schools open; our economy continuing its recovery; and to decrease the
number of hospitalizations and deaths from COVID.  
  
The Secretary of Labor will oversee the rulemaking process with OSHA. 
We anticipate that that’ll come across the coming weeks and then will be
implemented for, you know, all employers above 100 employees the need to
get vaccinated or tested a minimum of once per week.  
  
Next question.  
  
MODERATOR:  All right.  Next question.  Lauren Hirsch at the New York
Times.  
  
Q    What is the punishment for companies that do not abide by the vax
or test rule?  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  So this, again, applies to companies with greater than 100
employees.  And if a workplace refuses to follow the standard, the OSHA
fines can be quite significant.  Enforcement actions can include fines
up to $13,600 per violation.  
  
Next question.  
  
MODERATOR:  Monica Alba, NBC News.  
  
Q    Thank you so much, guys.  The question is: Once boosters do become
available in 10 days or so, for those who got Pfizer, as expected, what
will be the standard for fully vaccinated?  Will it be two doses or
three doses for those federal workers and contractors, in particular,
for whom the 75-day clock starts ticking as of yesterday?  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Dr. Walensky?  
  
DR. WALENSKY:  Yeah.  Thank you, Monica, for that question.  We have
posed and will pose that question to our Advisory Committee on
Immunization Practices.  Currently, fully vaccinated is two doses of
Pfizer or Moderna or a single dose of J&J.  I anticipate, over time,
that may be updated, but we will leave that to our advisors to give us
some recommendations.  
  
Next question.  
  
MODERATOR:  Let’s go to Josh Wingrove at Bloomberg.  
  
Q    Hi there.  Thank you very much.  Can I just ask broadly — yesterday
was focused on employees, essentially.  Many of the deaths are still
among the elderly, who, of course, have the highest vaccination rate but
are still bearing the brunt.  What, if anything, can you do or are you
considering doing to try to fuel vaccinations among that sliver of older
folks who haven’t gotten the shot?   
  
And separately, have you ruled out whether you would ever do a vaccine
requirement or testing requirement for domestic flights?  Or is that
something that could still be possible in the future?  Thank you.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Dr. Murthy, do you want to start with the first question on
the group that’s 65 and older where vaccination rates are quite high,
but obviously we want to drive them even higher?   
  
Dr. Murthy.  
  
DR. MURTHY:  Yeah, that’s right.  Well, thanks, Josh, for the question. 
You know, it’s important folks know that we’ve got over 90 percent of
seniors with one dose of vaccine, more than 80 percent who’ve gotten
fully vaccinated.  That’s good progress, but we want to get as close to
100 percent as possible.  
  
You know, I do think to continue to extend the protection seniors have,
that the boosters will likely be helpful in the end.  That’s one of the
reasons we came together as a medical team from the Department of Health
and Human Services and laid out that plan last week, which will be —
last month — which will be contingent on FDA and CDC guidance.   
  
But we’re also continuing, through our Community Corps efforts, to reach
out to seniors.  You know, we know that every senior matters in terms of
getting them vaccinated.  That’s a potential life saved.  And so the
vast network of community organizations, which include doctors and
nurses, faith leaders, and other community organizations has been
absolutely essential in doing that outreach, and we’re going to continue
to do that in the months ahead.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Josh —  
  
DR. WALENSKY:  Jeff, if I might just —  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Please.  
  
DR. WALENSKY:  — if I might just add to that.  The mandatory vaccination
for our long-term care facilities, for our dialysis centers, for places
where these elderly people often interact in our healthcare workforce,
we’ve seen that that makes a difference.  And so I anticipate that’ll
make a difference as well.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Thank you, Dr. Walensky.  So, Josh, on the second part of
your question, which I believe was about airlines: First, the
vaccination requirements that the President laid out yesterday will
affect about 100 million American workers. That’s two thirds of all
workers.  So we’re taking strong action on vaccination requirements, and
we believe that workplaces are a very efficient and effective way to
ensure that people get vaccinated or, at minimum, get tested one time
per week.  And verifying in the workplace that someone is vaccinated
does not place an ongoing burden on vaccinated people.  
  
As to travel, we’re taking further action, as you know, to double the
fines for noncompliance of masking on airlines.  So that’s a TSA action
that was announced yesterday.  And overall, I think we have a — you
know, a very strong track record that shows we’re pulling available
levers to acquire vaccinations and we’re not taking any measures off the
table.  
  
Why don’t we do one more question?  Kevin.  
  
MODERATOR:  Last question.  Sasha Pezenik at ABC News.  
  
Q    Hey, guys.  Thank you for taking my question.  For Jeff: You know,
as much as the COVID response has been in states’ hands, I’m curious how
you’ll enforce the new mandates that President Biden has now put forth. 
We’re seeing that so many GOP governors already have pushed back.   
  
And for Dr. Walensky, do you have an update on what percentage of people
in the hospital are unvaccinated?  Last we heard, your overall estimate
was about 97 percent.  If there’s any update on what the new estimate
might be, that would be very helpful.  Thank you.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  So, Dr. Walensky, do you want to do the second part?  
  
DR. WALENSKY:  Yeah.  I will just say that that — this, of course,
changes over time and by jurisdiction.  You know, as we have more and
more people vaccinated and with the Delta variant (inaudible) waning, we
are seeing more people in the hospital with — who have been
vaccinated.  
  
But what I want to reiterate here is: It’s still well over 90 percent of
people who are in the hospital are unvaccinated.  And as our MMWR states
and I highlighted, we still have more than 10 times the number of people
in the hospital who are unvaccinated compared to vaccinated.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Yeah.  
  
SURGEON GENERAL MURTHY:  Jeff, can I add one broader point once you’re
done?  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Please.  No, please.   
  
SURGEON GENERAL MURTHY:  Well, I just want to say, to the broader
questions, you know, about seniors and kids and how do we protect
them: The measures that the President announced yesterday, particularly
with regard to workplaces, are really an important part of actually
protecting seniors and kids, even though they may not be in the
workplace in larger numbers.  And here’s why: Because we know that a key
— that the key to reducing transmission is getting more people
vaccinated.  And even if you’re young and relatively healthy and you’re
not worried about the consequences to yourself, you could pass the virus
on to other people.   
  
And that’s why this collective responsibility we have as a society to
make sure we are not only taking care of our own health, but reducing
the chances we pass a virus on to somebody who’s more vulnerable —
that’s why this is so important.  And that’s what the efforts that the
President announced yesterday will help us do: reduce transmission,
protect lives, and protect our children as well.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  I think it’s a good transition to the last part of the
question, which is — from day one, the President has been clear that
COVID — the pandemic — is a public health issue, not a political issue,
and that’s how it’s been addressed.  And the President has been clear
that he will not hesitate to take strong actions, like he did yesterday,
to protect workers and the American people, and accelerate our path out
of this pandemic.  
  
We know that vaccination requirements work.  We see significant
increases in vaccination rates at companies, healthcare systems,
universities that implement vaccine requirements.   
  
When Tyson’s Food announced to its employees that they would need to be
vaccinated no later than November 1st, at that point, only 45 percent of
the workforce at Tyson’s was vaccinated.  Now that number is over 72
percent, with many weeks to go.   
  
At United Airlines, when they announced the vaccination requirement a
few weeks ago, since then, more than half of its unvaccinated employees
at United have now gotten vaccinated.  And they still have weeks to go
before their deadline.   
  
So vaccination requirements work, and that’s why so many organizations
have come out and supported the President’s plan that he announced last
evening — as I mentioned, the Business Roundtable, the American Medical
Association.  And importantly, local, on-the-ground public health
officials have applauded the President’s plan.   
  
So, let me also remind you that it is — vaccination requirements are the
current standard employed by so many corporations; that the President’s
actions will accelerate that number of companies across the board for
employers over 100.  And that includes Fox News, which already has that
vaccination requirement in place to keep its own employees safe.  
  
So, thank you for today’s briefing, and we look forward to seeing you
next week.  Thank you.  
  
12:06 P.M. EDT  
  

To view the COVID Press Briefing slides,
visit: <https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/09/COVID-Press-Briefing_10September2021_transcript.pdf>
