---
tags: press-briefings
date: '2021-09-30'
modified_time: 2021-09-30 17:58:58-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/09/30/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-september-30-2021/
published_time: 2021-09-30 17:58:57-04:00
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Jen\_Psaki, September 30,\_2021"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

2:34 P.M. EDT  
  
MS. PSAKI: Hi, everyone. Okay. Welcome back, Dr. Harper.  
  
Q  Thank you.  
  
MS. PSAKI: Okay. I’m breaking my streak. I do have some items at the top
for all of you. Lots going on in the world.  
  
The U.S. government condemns in the strongest possible terms the
government of Ethiopia’s unprecedented action to expel the leadership of
<s>all of</s> the United Nations organizations involved in ongoing
humanitarian operations. We agree with U.N. leaders: This is a stain on
our collective conscience and it must stop.  
  
The action follows the release of reports warning that hundreds of
thousands of people are starving to death in northern Ethiopia. We’re
deeply concerned that this action continues a pattern by the Ethiopian
government of obstructing the delivery of food, medicine, and other
lifesaving supplies that most — to those most in need.  
  
We call on the U.N. Security Council and members of the international
community to take urgent action to make clear to the government of
Ethiopia that impeding humanitarian operations and depriving your own
citizens of the basic means of survival is unacceptable.  
  
President Biden signed an executive order, earlier this month, enabling
the U.S. government to impose financial sanctions on those prolonging
the conflict in northern Ethiopia.  We will not hesitate to use this or
any other tool at our disposal to respond quickly and decisively to
those who obstruct humanitarian assistance to the people of Ethiopia.  
  
One more items — one more item. Some news from — out of the First Lady’s
office: Today, Joining Forces — the White House initiative led by the
First Lady to support military families — and the National Security
Council released a White House report, signed by the President and
Secretaries of 15 executive departments, which outlines the first round
of administration-wide commitments and proposals to supporting military
and veteran families, caregivers, and survivors.  
  
In May of 2021, the Office of the First Lady and the National Security
Council launched a Joining Forces Interagency Policy Committee with
representatives from across the executive agencies to work
collaboratively on priorities related to the families of service members
and veterans, caregivers, and survivors.  
  
This report details more than 800 — 80, sorry — specific commitments and
proposals from across the administration and is the product of the
Interagency Policy Committee’s months of work.  
  
Going forward, this committee will continue to advance these priorities,
including those outlined in the report, through cross-agency working
groups and will report results and updated plans annually.  
  
Jonathan, why don’t you kick us off.  
  
Q  Thank you, Jen. A few — all on the dealings at Capitol Hill right
now. Senator Manchin told reporters a short time ago that he told
President Biden that $1.5 trillion would be as high as he was willing to
go for the reconciliation package. What was the President’s reaction to
that? Is that an acceptable number?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Well, first, I would say, as we’ve said many times, we’re not
going to outline private negotiations or private discussions, and we’ll
let the senators speak for that, as Senator Manchin did earlier today.
The way the President sees it is that this is an ongoing discussion, an
ongoing negotiation.  
  
Here’s what we know: We know that timelines help make progress. We’ve
seen that play out over the course of the last couple of days. We know
that compromise is inevitable. We’ve also seen that play out over the
last couple of days. And right now, we’re clearly in the thick of it.  
  
I’d also note that during his — during Senator Manchin’s — and
obviously, I’m not his spokesperson; he can certainly speak for himself
— but during his Q&A he did on the Hill today, he also referenced the
fact that he — that there was a document from a couple of months ago.
And I’ll let him and Senator — Leader Schumer speak to that. And he was
repeatedly pushed and asked, “Would you go higher than 1.5? Would you go
higher than 1.5?” I will leave it to all of you to determine if he
answered that question.  
  
But this is an ongoing discussion, an ongoing negotiation. And as I said
yesterday, that’s going to require all sides giving a little, and we’re
in the midst of that right now.  
  
Q  So on that — so, key Democratic House leaders have said they will,
quote, “stay here all weekend” to work to get a deal. Does the President
plan to do the same? Will he be at the White House working this weekend,
having visitors, calling and hosting congressional lawmakers?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Well, as Speaker Pelosi said earlier — and we’re following
the same motto — we’re taking it hour by hour here and making a decision
and determination about what’s most needed.  
  
So, as it relates to what’s even going to happen this afternoon, we’re
open; he’s available. He’s been making calls this morning. He’s open to
having visitors. He’s open to going places. But we’re going to make
those decisions hour by hour.  
  
So, the weekend is a little bit away, but I will tell you that this is
the President’s top priority right now: getting relief to the American
people; making sure we’re lowering costs for the American people; we’re
addressing the climate crisis; we’re rebuilding our roads, rails, and
bridges. We’ve made progress, and we’re still at work at it.  
  
Q  All right. And last one from me. One of the President’s central
promises when he was elected was to restore Americans’ ability to be
confident in their government again, to believe in institutions again.
What is the White House’s message to Americans right now who look at
this and see a mess? Nearly a government shutdown, the debt ceiling is
unclear, legislation not being passed, at least not yet, even though
Democrats control all the bodies of government. And those Americans
don’t feel that they can be confident in government.  
  
What’s the White House’s response?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Well, first, I would say: The President, the Speaker of the
House, and the Leader have more experience getting legislation across
the finish line than any group of Democrat — Democratic leaders in
history.  
  
We’re in the middle of it right now. It’s messy, this sausage-making, on
Capitol Hill. Policymaking is messy. There’s negotiations. They all have
representatives who are advocating for their points of view. That’s
democracy in action.  
  
What I can tell them is that we’re on the path to keep the government
open. You just saw that pass the Senate. It was going over to the House.
That’s not just keeping the government open, that’s getting relief to
make sure we can — we can take care of refugees, people who fought by
our side in Afghanistan; that’s to make sure we get relief to the Gulf
Coast — additional relief to the Gulf Coast. All important priorities.  
  
And we would also tell them that the President is going to stop at —
he’s going to use every lever at his disposal to fight to get this
legislation passed — these two pieces of legislation — that will have a
historic — make historic investments. And he’s doing it because he wants
to have an impact on their lives.  
  
But these type of packages, not a lot of precedent for them, but he’s
going to work at it. He’s going to get it done. That’s what he would
tell them.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q  Does the President see any strategic value in a vote failing on the
House floor?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Well, as Speaker Pelosi said earlier today, we’re on a path
to win. I don’t want to even consider any other options than that. We’re
in it to win it. The President is also in it to win it. That’s what
we’re working toward. It’s only 2:40 right now; lots of time left in the
day. And he’s going to continue to engage — stay closely engaged with
her about the path forward.  
  
Q  You’ve repeatedly referred to this week — to this moment as an
“inflection point.” How is the President viewing this moment, given
where his caucuses are and where his members are?  
  
MS. PSAKI: This moment as in “this moment” — 2:40 p.m. this afternoon —
or just today?  
  
Q  As in it’s deadline day for an infrastructure bill; he doesn’t have
the votes. One member of the United States Senate is about $2 trillion
below his topline number, and there’s no clear way to bridge those
gaps.  
  
MS. PSAKI: Well, I think the President views this as the last several
days and even longer than that. His view is we’ve made some progress.
You’ve seen some members come down. You’ve seen some members come up.
You’ve seen active negotiations. He’s obviously been hard at work at
them himself.  
  
And what we clearly see is an agreement about the need to get this done,
whether it’s the infrastructure bill or the reconciliation practice —
package, which has key priorities for the President — key priorities. I
think the Speaker referred to it earlier today as the cause of her — as
her public li- — as her time in public life. That’s a bit of a
paraphrase. I’ll leave you to her words.  
  
So, look, he sees this moment — he knew that as we got closer to
self-imposed timelines, which are important — often these timelines can
help make progress; we’ve seen progress made — that more members would
be out there advocating for what was important to them. That’s
happening.  
  
We saw — we would hopefully see more willingness to compromise; that’s
happening too. We’re hard at work. And he’s been through this before, so
he’s not too thrown off his game on it.  
  
Q  And then just one quick last one. Do you guys see a possibility of
some type of framework agreement that could unlock the infrastructure
vote today?  
  
MS. PSAKI: That’s what we’re working towards.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q  Thank you, Jen. You talked about “self-imposed timelines” as opposed
to the other real timelines for debt ceiling and the CR. The
progressives don’t seem to feel any sense of urgency about passing
infrastructure, and the moderates, like Manchin, don’t seem to feel any
urgency about passing reconciliation. The only Democrat that I can think
of who really has a sense of urgency is Terry McAuliffe.  
  
Do you feel it — does the President want this done in a certain amount
of time, or does he also feel that this could play out over weeks and
months and still come to the conclusion that he wants?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Well, as I said a little bit earlier, we know — and the
President knows from his time in public office — that timelines can help
make progress. That’s often how legislating happens on the Hill. And as
the Speaker —  
  
Q  These ones aren’t.  
  
MS. PSAKI: Well, we would — we would disagree with that. You’ve seen a
lot of members out there advocating for their viewpoints, being very
vocal about what they want to see; some coming up, some coming down.
That’s a sense of progress. And we’re working at it hour by hour here.  
  
Q  But does he have — does he feel that he needs it done by a certain
time, like the end of the year?  
  
MS. PSAKI: I’m not going to set new deadlines here for you. Obviously,
we’re trying to get it done now. We’re working on it as of right now,
today, and that’s what our focus is on in this moment.  
  
Go ahead. I’ll go back to you, Weijia. Go ahead.  
  
Q  It’s all right.  
  
Q  To follow up a little on what Phil was asking —  
  
MS. PSAKI: Yeah.  
  
Q  — what does the President want and what is he asking members of
Congress to do on this infrastructure vote tonight? Is he calling
progressives, and Republicans even, asking them to vote for it? Does he
definitely want this vote tonight? Or is this all still this murky —
sort of trying to link these two things together and hope something
emerges out of that?  
  
MS. PSAKI: There’s nothing really murky about what’s going on here. I
mean, we understand what progressive members want. Right? They’ve been
out there vocally talking to all of you about what they want.  
  
It’s clear we also need their votes in order to pass an infrastructure
bill. They want to have a clear path forward on a reconciliation
package. The President wants both pieces of legislation to pass. That’s
what he wants, bottom line. He’s also going to work with the Speaker and
the Leader to get that done.  
  
So, what he’s been spending his time on over the last couple of days is
that — having conversations with Senator Manchin, Senator Sinema, and
others who have been very vocal about the fact that they’re not quite
there yet. And his objective is to try to get them there because that’s
what members of the Progressive Caucus are looking for in order to
support an infrastructure bill, many compo- — of components of which
they support.  
  
Q  I guess, to put a finer point on it: If your choice is between a vote
tonight that fails but sort of puts everybody on the record, or pulling
the vote tonight and continuing deliberations despite it potentially
upsetting moderates who feel like they’ve been promised this vote, what
does the President prefer?  
  
MS. PSAKI: We’re working towards winning a vote tonight. We have several
hours left in the day.  
  
Q  All right. Last one. What’s the plan on the debt ceiling? I mean,
Republicans have sort of made clear that they’re not going to back any
efforts. So it would seem at this point that Democrats’ only hope here
is to turn towards a reconciliation process on the debt ceiling.  
  
I understand that you’ve made the point many times that Mitch McConnell
is being hypocritical on this, that Republicans should support it, but
it does seem now that the votes are on the table, that you’re kind of
pursuing this political point at the potential risk of default for the
U.S. economy.  
  
MS. PSAKI: Well, I think that’s a bit of a shorthand of what’s
happening, which I understand; it’s a bit of a complicated thing.  
  
But first, since you gave me the opportunity, it’s not just Senator
McConnell; Republicans are playing politics with an economic
catastrophe, and they’re treating a calamity for working families like a
D.C. game. There are huge impacts here.  
  
You touched on the fact, but let me give the public a little sense of
that: an instant recession, 6 million jobs lost, $15 trillion in savings
wiped out, Social Security checks and payments to our troops blocked.
Those are real impacts.  
  
Republicans in Congress are treating this like a game. Let me give you
some examples. Senator Rick Scott — and this is a real quote, I will
note: “This is going to be a…ball. I’m going to have so much fun.”
That’s about the debt limit.  
  
Senator Kevin Kramer: “It’s sort of fun to watch.”  
  
And Senator Cornyn said yesterday that Republicans would use every tool
at their disposal to slow Democrats from doing this on their own.  
  
What we’re trying to do right now is do it on their own –do it on our
own. That is what Leader Schumer is working to proceed — working to move
forward on.  
  
And, obviously, as you know, Republicans have blocked that effort. So,
of course, we are going to continue to press. We’re not going to let up
on that, on Republicans, to do what’s responsible, to protect the full
faith and credit of the United States, as has been done 80 times in the
past.  
  
We’ve also been working to do it on our own. We’re going to keep working
with Leader Schumer to get that done.  
  
Q  But you’re not going to ask for reconcil- — Democrats to push on
reconciliation, (inaudible)?  
  
MS. PSAKI: I’m not going to get into additional mechanisms here. We’re
going to continue. I don’t think — we’re not going to, nor should
anyone, let Republicans off the hook here, so we’re going to continue to
press them on it.  
  
Q  One of the things that Senator Manchin said today was that the, kind
of — the concern that he has around the 3.5 number is about how it would
impact inflation in the economy. And I’m curious what the White House
thinks of that concern and what you’ve done to allay that concern.  
  
MS. PSAKI: Well, we’ve conveyed privately what we’ve said publicly and
what many, many economists have also conveyed publicly, which is that
what these packages will do is they will address — address inflation and
costs over the long term. That’s one of the core reasons that people
should be supporting them. So, if you are concerned about inflation,
that’s exactly a reason you should support these packages.  
  
Q  And would the President sign a reconciliation bill that does not
include negotiating on drug prices?  
  
MS. PSAKI: The President has obviously proposed that. He feels strongly
about the need to make drugs — prescription drugs, I should say, more
affordable to the American public. I’m not going to negotiate further
from here.  
  
Q  One other thing, just on a different topic: Jake Sullivan’s
conversations in Saudi Arabia. Did rising oil prices come up in those
conversations? What was his message to the Saudis about alleviating some
of the concerns that people have as they’re paying a dollar more for
gasoline now than they did a year ago?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Yeah, so, I know someone asked about this the other day. And,
obviously, the focus of his trip was on Yemen and working with the
Saudis on Yemen. And our — Tim Lenderki- — Lenderking was — joined him
in those meetings, who’s our envoy to Yemen, to kind of figure out the
path forward.  
  
He was — obviously, the price of oil is of concern. We have been in
touch with OPEC. And I believe it was going to be raised, but I haven’t
had a chance to get a readout beyond that. I can try to do that for you
after the briefing.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q  Thanks, Jen. So, putting the topline number aside, Senators Manchin
and Sinema have been very opaque about what it is they want and do not
want in this reconciliation bill. Without revealing details, does the
White House and the President have a clear understanding of what it is
each one of them wants?  
  
MS. PSAKI: We’ve had a lot of private conversations with both of the
senators about what their priorities are, as they’ve said publicly. And
I think as Senator Manchin said publicly today, what their priorities
are and what that looks like in a final package, that’s still an ongoing
discussion.  
  
Q  Are they asking for the same things? Are the two of them on board
with the same (inaudible)?  
  
MS. PSAKI: I’ll let them speak for their priorities and how they line up
with each other.  
  
Q  Okay. And then to build on what Justin was asking about —  
  
MS. PSAKI: Sure.  
  
Q  — decoupling these two.  
  
MS. PSAKI: Yeah.  
  
Q  Is the President worried at all about eroding trust with Republicans
who signed on to the bipartisan deal after he reassured them that it
would not be conditional on reconciliation?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Well, let’s remember what’s actually going on on the Hill
here. Republicans in the House, led by Kevin McCarthy, are opting to
vote against rebuilding roads and railways and bridges, despite the fact
that the package was sent over with the support of 69 senators.  
  
So, I think if you’re asking about trust or whether people are
delivering for the American people, you should direct it at Kevin
McCarthy.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q  I’m asking because the progressives have made so clear that they
refuse to vote on infrastructure without a vote on reconciliation first.
Why doesn’t the President ask them to treat them separately?  
  
MS. PSAKI: To trea- — well, I think the —  
  
Q  To treat the two bills separately.  
  
MS. PSAKI: The President has made clear both are his priorities. He’s
also made clear he wants to get them both across the finish line.  
  
What we’re talking about now is the legislative process and how you get
the majority of votes to get both of them done. And that’s what he’s
working to negotiate and working to unify the caucus around.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q  Thanks. And just one more —  
  
MS. PSAKI: Yeah.  
  
Q  — on a separate topic.  
  
MS. PSAKI: Sure. Go ahead.  
  
Q  The National School Boards Association has sent a letter to the
President asking for help from federal law enforcement agencies because
of the violence and the threats that they’re seeing across the country.
Has the President received that request? And are you considering
offering that help?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Well, first, let me say we take the security of public
servants and elected officials across the country very seriously. And,
obviously, these threats to school board members is horrible. They’re
doing their jobs.  
  
Obviously, there are going to be different law enforcement authorities
that will be related to each community and — where this is happening, so
we’d certainly refer you to them about any specific threats. And we’d
encourage individuals to report any threats they face to local and state
law enforcement agencies. And we’re continuing to explore what more can
be done from across the administration.  
  
But again, a lot of this will be local law enforcement and how they can
help ensure these school board members feel protected.  
  
Q  Thanks.  
  
MS. PSAKI: Go ahead.  
  
Q  Thank you, Jen. Has the President at all lost control of his party?
Depending on which perspective you’re looking at this from — you know,
some people say that it appears that progressives are running the show,
they’re banding together and making their demands. Other people are
saying it looks like Joe Manchin is playing president. So, who is in
charge?  
  
 MS. PSAKI: Well, this is how democracy works. I know it feels foreign
because there wasn’t much that happened over the last couple of years.
But how it works is the American people elect their elected officials,
the President of the United States puts forward a bold and ambitious
proposal, and then everybody negotiates about it, and they have
different points of view. That’s how democracy should work. We’re in the
midst of it right now. We’re not trying to paint over how messy it looks
from the outside. We know that.  
  
But what — the good news is, is that there is agreement that — among
most Democrats, if not every single one of them, that we need to get
something done; that we need to do more to rebuild our roads and
railways and bridges; that we need to cut costs for the American people;
we need to address the climate crisis. There’s agreement on that.  
  
Now we’re in the nitty-gritty details, which is very important, but
that’s the end stage of this process. And the American people should
know that that’s what the President is working on.  
  
Q  And I want to follow up on Weijia’s question. So, if the bipartisan
bill fails or is stalled or doesn’t happen today, it would appear that
these two bills — the reconciliation and the infrastructure — are
linked. And the President, you know, made statements that Republicans
should be able to vote for the bipartisan bill on its merits. He stood
in front of the White House with a group of Republicans who negotiated
that infrastructure bill. Is there a message that he has to those
Republican senators, who voted to pass that bill on its merits, that
this bill is somehow not linked with the reconciliation because of
what’s happening in the House?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Well, we’re working towards victory here and a win. If it
doesn’t pass, it’s because it doesn’t have enough votes. I think
Republicans in the Senate understand that and know how this process
works.  
  
But that’s what we’re working towards now. That’s what the President has
been making phone calls about. That’s what we have his schedule cleared
for this afternoon. And I’m not going to make a prediction of what the
outcome will look like several hours from now.  
  
Q  And then with the Vice President — and she was a senator as recently
as this year —  
  
MS. PSAKI: Yeah.  
  
Q  — why isn’t she on the Hill helping to broker this deal?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Well, the Vice President had the CBC over, the CHC last week.
She’s been making calls herself, just like the President. If it’s
constructive for her to go to the Hill or for him to go to the Hill, to
have members down here, they’ll do that.  
  
We’re ready and willing. This is our top priority. All hands on deck.
But a lot of what’s happening right now is discussions at a staff level,
a senior staff level to get through these intricate details, and that’s
where the focus is in this moment.  
  
Go ahead, Kelly.  
  
Q  Since we haven’t seen the President much publicly this week —  
  
 MS. PSAKI: Yeah.  
  
 Q  — and you talked about leaving room in his schedule, can you paint
more of a picture of what’s happening behind the scenes? Are these calls
happening from the Oval? Is he inviting guests to the Residence? Does he
have a whiteboard with his own whip count? Can you give us a picture of
what it looks like (inaudible)?  
  
MS. PSAKI: (Laughs.) I like that visual. I would say he does not have a
whiteboard with a whip count. I can assure you he’s more of a paper and
pen kind of guy.  
  
But, look, he’s been meeting with staff, he’s been getting updates from
staff as they’ve been having engagements with the Hill. You all know who
the senior members of his team are who are negotiating, whether that’s
Steve Ricchetti or Louisa Terrell, Brian Deese, Susan Rice.  
  
What he’s asked his team to do is — including the policy members, which
people don’t always factor this in — is be available to have
conversations with members about questions they have, to help address
any parts of it they have suggestions on.  
  
So, he’s getting regular updates. People are in and out of the Oval
Office providing him updates on their individual conversations. And he’s
picking up the phone and calling people as needed, whether that’s the
Speaker or Leader Schumer or other members, to have a conversation about
the status, to check on where they are, to follow up on maybe a
conversation they may have had with his staff.  
  
These conversations are happening from the Oval Office, but certainly he
does some from the Residence; it depends on what time of day it may
be.  
  
Q  And are you running your own whip count, or are you relying on Hill
resources to do that?  
  
MS. PSAKI: We’re very closely in touch, as you know, with leadership on
the Hill; the President himself is. Of course, we’re certainly in touch
with members ourself — ourselves about where they stand, where they may
have concerns, or any hesitations.  
  
Go ahead. I’ll come back to you, Terry. I’m sorry. Go ahead.

Q  We finally learned today Senator Manchin’s position on  
his topline number. Senator Schumer has been aware of it since late
July, and Senator Manchin said that he told the President already this
$1.5 trillion number. Why has the decision been made strategically to
pursue Senator Manchin, Senator Sinema, and not try to, within the last
couple of weeks, apply more pressure on progressives to take half a loaf
and say, “This is low-hanging fruit; it’s a $1.2 trillion infrastructure
plan. Let’s move on that”? Why was that strategic decision made not to
do that?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Both of these are huge priorities to the President. I’d also
note that when Senator Manchin was asked — and he can obviously speak
for himself — but just since I’ve read the whole transcript here, he
also repeatedly referred back to a document that went back to July 28th.
I’d remind you all that this is an active negotiation and discussion,
and it is incumbent upon members to put out where they stand and where
they are. And as we’ve seen over the past couple days, that’s an
everchanging process.  
  
So, before you make conclusions about what the end results will be, I
would remind you to look at the last several days or even weeks about
how these discussions have progressed.  
  
Q  But Senator Manchin said today he believes his position is — it
sounded to me like his position was firm. And he also said that if
progressives feel that the Congress should spend $3.5 trillion, that
they should convince voters to send more progressives to Washington.
That sounded to me like he’s saying that, through the end of this
Congress, he’s not going to agree to $3.5 trillion.  
  
MS. PSAKI: We could certainly parse Senator Manchin’s words, but I am
certain he’ll go answer questions again, and your colleagues should ask
him more questions.  
  
Q  But why do you think that this is not — why do you think that Senator
Manchin’s position on this is not final?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Because this is an active negotiation, because he was pushed
repeatedly during the gaggle that he did on Capitol Hill about where he
stood. But again, I’m not here to speak for Senator Manchin; he is —
certainly can speak for himself and what his points of view — views are.
And I certainly encourage you all to keep asking him questions about
where he stands.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q  Back on the deadline that was set at the beginning of the week —
announced at — this is a big week: Democrats are in charge here at the
White House and in both houses of Congress. And they set the deadline;
Democrats set the deadline. Now they —  
MS. PSAKI: To be clear, they just set the date of a vote.  
  
Q  All right. You called it a “deadline.” I was just using your words.  
  
MS. PSAKI: Okay. Fair. But — thank you for the clarification. It’s —
they set the time of a vote.  
  
Q  All right. Democrats set this vote. Now they’re going to miss it,
fail to make it. Why is it that —  
  
MS. PSAKI: We don’t know that. It’s only three o’clock.  
  
Q  Can you tell us if they’re going to vote tonight?  
  
MS. PSAKI: That’s what Speaker Pelosi indicated her plan was.  
  
Q  All right. My question is: Why isn’t it fair to see this as a failure
of the President to get his own party to back him and his agenda?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Why isn’t it, before we’ve even had a vote and we don’t even
know where it sits, a failure of the President?  
  
Q  It feels like we’re farther away today than we were on Monday.  
  
MS. PSAKI: I don’t think the President feels that way, and I don’t think
members of Congress feel that way.  
  
Q  You’ve talked about progress. Can you explain what progress is? You
said it’s people talking about where they are.  
  
MS. PSAKI: Yeah.

Q  That sounds like — that sounds like an earlier part  
of the process when you had set a vote for the end of the week.  
  
MS. PSAKI: Well, I would point you again to what Speaker Pelosi said
earlier today: In the end stages, the later stages of a process — where
we are now — when you get closer to a vote, a time of a vote being set,
that’s when the negotiations get serious. That’s when people start
putting down bottom lines of where they stand. You’ve seen some people
do that publicly. A lot more of it happens behind the scenes. That’s
what I mean by progress.  
  
You’ve seen members come down in numbers. You’ve seen members come up in
numbers. That’s what we’re working on — to get to an agreed-upon path
forward.  
  
Q  So there’s progress, and it’s people behind the scenes saying that —
where their numbers move.  
  
MS. PSAKI: They’ve also said it publicly.

Q  One more. A lot of Democrats are looking at what’s  
happening, and they’re saying Senator Manchin and Senator Sinema are
holding this President and his agenda hostage. What would you say to
that?  
  
MS. PSAKI: I would say we have 50 votes in the Senate — 50 Democrats in
the Senate. So, we need the majority to win. That’s how a bill becomes a
law.  
  
Q  They’ve got the leverage.  
  
MS. PSAKI: We need all 50 votes in the Senate to move this forward.
That’s where we stand now.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q  I just wanted to go back to the debt ceiling for a second.  
  
MS. PSAKI: Sure.  
  
Q  Democrats control all branches of government right now. Can you
assure the American people and the financial markets that the United
States will not default on its debt?  
  
MS. PSAKI: That is absolutely what we’re trying to accomplish. And I’d
remind you that we would have gotten that done had Republicans done what
they’ve done 80 times before — supporting a bipartisan vote to do
something that has been pretty standard in the past — or if they had
allowed Leader Schumer to move forward.  
  
But, absolutely, we’re going to do everything to prevent the federal —
us from defaulting —  
  
Q  But does the plan involve changing Mitch McConnell’s mind — Leader
McConnell’s mind in some way? Or is there a plan to just go forward
using either reconciliation or —  
  
MS. PSAKI: Well, Leader Schumer has already tried to — already been
working to move things forward. And it’s been blocked by Republicans —
not just their vote; an effort to move it forward has been blocked.  
  
Q  But there clearly are ways — I mean, getting rid of the filibuster,
for example, for this particular vote would be one way to move forward.
And is that something that the President would consider to avoid losing,
let’s say, 10 percent of the value of the stock market?  
  
MS. PSAKI: I just outlined how concerning we are — how concerned we are,
which you just echoed — or echoed different components of it. And that’s
an issue we take incredibly seriously. You’ve also heard Secretary
Yellen on the Hill talking about this. We’re not going to let
Republicans off the hook. We don’t think they should be. This is not a
game. This is the faith — full faith and credit of the United States.  
  
We’re working with Leader Schumer on a path forward, but beyond that, I
don’t have more to preview for you.  
  
Q  But you can do it without Republicans if you got rid of the
filibuster for this —  
  
MS. PSAKI: We could do it if they let us move forward, and they haven’t.
So I have no more details on the pa- — on the legislative process.  
  
Q  And just on the reconciliation package, is $1.5 trillion enough in
your spending to cover Biden’s priorities — the President’s
priorities?  
  
MS. PSAKI: I understand that’s a number that’s been put out there. It’s
an active negotiation. I’m not going to weigh in from here on what is or
isn’t acceptable to the Democratic Caucus.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q  A couple different topics. So, on immigration, there seems to be a
real sense among advocates for immigrants — people who have been
fighting for legalization, for a pathway to citizenship — there’s a real
sense of loom; people who described this, yesterday, even crying about
the latest parliamentarian ruling.  
  
Do you — what does the President — you know, what would the President
say or what does the President say if that — if he is unable to move
forward on any of the, sort of, big, sweeping promises that he made as a
candidate to get — to finally be the President to get something done on
immigration?  
  
 MS. PSAKI: Well, we don’t accept that. We’re nine months into his
presidency. And we share the disappointment. Obviously, as you know and
you touched on, the parliamentarian ruled twice, in different ways, that
it could be included in the reconciliation package — or components, I
should say, of immigration reform could not be included in the
reconciliation practice — process. Sorry, package.  
  
 That’s disappointing to the President as well. So, clearly, now we need
to figure out what the vehicle forward is.  
  
 I would say the President’s plan is about certainly protecting
DREAMers, farm workers, and others. It’s also about investing in border
security, making sure it makes sense and we’re investing in it in a way
that makes sense, and creating an asylum processing system that is
actually functional, which I think we all agree it’s not.  
  
 So there are several components of what he’s proposed, and, certainly,
we share the disappointment of many advocates that this wasn’t included
and the desire to find a vehicle to move it forward.  
  
 Q  On one other separate topic: There have been a number of issues in
the last, say, several weeks in which advocates — allies of the
President are describing him as “Trump-like.” Most — less in terms of
his personality and sort of tone and tenor, obviously, but in terms of
policy. Even today, a representative of the Cuban government describing
the frustration with the President continuing to maintain Trump-era
policies vis-à-vis Cuba.  
  
 Does the — what’s the President’s reaction? And does he accept that in
some areas of policy he is, you know, in agreement with the former
President?  
  
 MS. PSAKI: So, just for the sake of argument here — not argument, but
discussion — beyond the representative of the Cuban government who —  
  
Q  Afghanistan, immigration —  
  
MS. PSAKI: Well, but who? Who are we talking about here?  
  
Q  Who —  
  
MS. PSAKI: Who is saying that the President is like Trump?  
  
Q  Oh, I mean there — there — I mean, I could find you quotes. We have —
there have been quotes in our paper and quotes in lots of — lots of
folks have, depending on the issue, whether they are immigration
advocates or, you know, folks in the Afghanistan — who sort of watch
Afghanistan. There have been numerous on-the-record descriptions of the
President embracing — and it’s actually, in some ways, just a factual
thing, right?  
  
MS. PSAKI: But like on what policy?

 Q  Like the President has —  
  
MS. PSAKI: On what policy? Sorry, I didn’t — you can — you can name
people but — or what specific policies.  
  
Q  Well, I mean, for example, Afghanistan would have been the
maintaining of the former President’s decision to withdraw troops. On
immigration, it’s in maintaining Title 42 and keeping Title 42 in place.
I mean they’re —  
  
Q  Sub- —  
  
Q  Hm?  
  
Q  Submarines.  
  
Q  The submarine — yeah. (Laughter.)  
  
MS. PSAKI: Which one?  
  
Q  The submarine — I’m just —  
  
Q  Yeah, the —  
  
Q  AUKUS.  
  
Q  The President was —  
  
Q  AUKUS.  
  
Q  — yeah — was compared to Trump —  
  
Q  — to Trump. Well, the — that’s the French — the French Foreign
Minister compared him to Trump, in terms of how he handled the AUKUS
negotiations.  
  
MS. PSAKI: So, look, I’d take each one of these: On Afghanistan, the
former President struck a deal without the Afghan government that, we
heard the military convey yesterday, led to the demoralization of the
Afghan Security Forces and the Afghan government, where he also released
5,000 Taliban fighters into Afghanistan.  
  
I would say the President took a pretty different approach than that in
ending a war that the former President didn’t end — something the
American people strongly support.  
  
As it relates to AUKUS, I’m not even sure what that’s referring to, in
terms of what they’re comparing. The President worked with key partners
— Australia and the United Kingdom — to come to an agreement that would
help provide security in an important part of the world — in the
Indo-Pacific — a priority that, frankly, getting out of the war in
Afghanistan leaves space for us to spend more time addressing.  
  
What was the last one? Immigration?  
  
Q  Immigration, Title 42, tariffs on China. I mean, there’s —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Title 42 is a public health — is a public health
requirement, a public hea- — because we’re in the middle of a pandemic,
which, by the way —  
  
Q  The President and his allies —  
  
MS. PSAKI: — we would have made progress on had the former President
actually addressed —  
  
Q  Right, but the —  
  
MS. PSAKI: — the pandemic and not suggested people inject bleach.  
  
So, I think we’re in a bit of a different place. I’m happy to discuss
more examples. I think it’s — people would be pretty hard pressed to
argue that the President has taken any aspect of the former President’s
playbook and used it as a model of his own.  
  
Q  Okay. Thank you.  
  
MS. PSAKI: Go ahead.  
  
Q  Senator Manchin has also said that he wants to means test as much as
possible of this reconciliation package. Without getting into or
speaking for the senator, as you’ve said, what is the White House’s
position on, I guess, means testing in this package?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Well, you can call it whatever you want. Sometimes means —
when you say “means testing” — not you, but when — when it’s said, it
sometimes has it not the right connotation or the wrong connotation.  
  
The President’s proposals, many of them have been targeted at the middle
class, as have these proposals and these initiatives, which means
there’s a cap on income through which you can benefit. That’s what — you
can call it whatever you want, if you call it “means testing.” The
President is very open to targeting, by income, many of his proposals.
And that’s something that you can see throughout many components of his
agenda that have been proposed and many that have passed to date.  
  
Q  Does the White House believe that you all are currently in alignment
with Manchin on what those thresholds would look like or —  
  
MS. PSAKI: It’s an ongoing discussion. But, again, our objective is to —
is to target and focus on bringing relief to the middle class. That’s
what the President wants to see this agenda accomplish.  
  
Q  In an op-ed for USA Today this morning, Senator Bernie Sanders
defended the $3.5 trillion price tag, asking, “Please tell me
<s>what</s> \[where\] we should cut.” This came out before Senator
Manchin gave his line in the sand.  
  
Does — without speaking for either senator, does the White House believe
that there’s any provisions that, if we are talking about getting
somewhere between 3.5 and 1.5, that are absolutely — you all cannot
stomach not having them in the final package?  
  
MS. PSAKI: I’m not going to put anything on the table here. It’s clear,
as numbers come down, which they will, that there will be cuts to
different components. That’s just the nature of the totals here. But
we’ll leave those conversations private. I know you’re eagel \[sic\] —
eager to know more, and hopefully we’ll have more to share soon.  
  
Q  And then just finally — just one more point. As you all have said
from here, the public — public polling has consistently found that many
parts of this — of both packages are very supported by the American
people. The American people are also very consistently pessimistic about
action in Washington.  
  
MS. PSAKI: Yeah.  
  
Q  Ahead of what we’re going to be seeing, whichever way this vote goes
tonight, what is your message to the public as they look at the ongoing
situation in Washington about — what is your message to the American
people as they look at, as you’ve said, a messy situation, the chaos of
democracy?  
  
MS. PSAKI: We hope we can prove them wrong.  
  
Q  Okay.  
  
MS. PSAKI: Go ahead, Karen.  
  
Q  Thanks, Jen. I know “hour by hour” is kind of the phrase of the
day.  
  
MS. PSAKI: (Laughs.) Yeah.  
  
Q  But given that, can we expect to hear from the President today? Or
what would have to happen for us to hear from the President today?  
  
MS. PSAKI: We’ll see. I can’t make a prediction for you now, but it is
certainly possible. It’s also possible he has more meetings. He’ll
certainly make more phone calls, possibly moves. But I don’t have
anything to predict for you at this point in time.  
  
Q  And, last night, he went to the congressional baseball game. Did he
go specifically to do some arm twisting or lobbying on infrastructure?
And he spent some time with Republican lawmakers — something he really
hasn’t done here at the White House. Can you give us a sense of what he
talked about with those Republican lawmakers? What was the interaction
like, the tone of those conversations?  
  
MS. PSAKI: I think you’re undervaluing his baseball prowess — (laughter)
— and history, which he was honored for last night.  
  
No, look, I think what the President — and I saw him this morning; he
was reflecting on how it was — and I think this is a tradition — the
Congressional Baseball Game. You know, it’s something that has been
around for some time, where Democrats and Republicans go participate in
America’s — one of America’s favorite pastimes.  
  
And you saw — I think you all saw in photos, but for people who didn’t
see — he visited with some Republicans down in their area — dugout?  
  
Q  Dugout.  
  
MS. PSAKI: I don’t even know it’s called. (Laughter.) Okay, dugout. Help
me out here. Thank you. He visited — (laughs) — with some — my husband
is going to be really mad about that.  
  
He visited with some Republicans. You know, he wasn’t — it wasn’t meant
to be a negotiation; it was a discussion about, you know, how things are
going and work we’re all committed to and just saying hello to them. And
sometimes, you know, that’s important and powerful too at a time where
there’s been so much division, where there’s a view from many in the
public — as per the question earlier — that people can’t work together,
can’t get things done.  
  
And this was an opportunity to have a moment to visit with, to see
people that you’ve known be- — you’ve known a long time, to meet new
people, and to move beyond partisanship to celebrate one of America’s
favorite pastimes.  
  
Q  Did he have a response to you about getting booed last night? Any
reaction to that?

MS. PSAKI: He’s been in public life long enough to know there’s going to
be some yays and jeers in most big, public places.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q  Can I just follow up on that? Is — in some ways, does his visit and
the rituals of getting together sort of prove the point that the face
time doesn’t work? I mean, you still — you referred to Leader McConnell
and the Republican Party not willing to raise the debt limit. He’s had
plenty of face time with Leader McConnell for decades. Maybe it just
doesn’t matter and people are going to do what their political interests
or what they believe their political interests tells them to do?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Well, this is how the President views it: You’re going to
have strong disagreements, as he does with Senator McConnell about how
he’s approached the debt limit. You’re also going to have areas where
you may come to agreement on, as they do on infrastructure and the
importance of rebuilding our roads, our railways, and our bridges. And
it’s important to maintain lines of communication and discussion to
figure out where you can work together.  
  
That’s also how he views and approaches diplomacy. We can call out and —
publicly and argue strongly privately issues we have with foreign
governments. But we also sometimes still look for ways — most of the
time — for ways to work together.  
  
That’s been his approach. I would say that given the infrastructure bill
passed with 69 votes, that’s evidence of it working.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q  Thank you, Jen. You mentioned at the top that on September 17th the
President signed an executive order authorizing sanctions to be used
against those undermining peace in Ethiopia.  
  
But right now, it doesn’t seem the Prime Minister of Ethiopia, Abiy
Ahmed, is interested in peace. He refused to meet with Samantha Power
when she was there. He has — he is expelling U.N. staff from the
country. He’s taken other steps that prove that he has no interest in
peace.  
  
Why not take the sanction now? Why not impose the sanction now, or take
more drastic action against not just him but also the President of
Eritrea, who still have troops inside Ethiopia?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Well, absent clear and concrete changes, we will. We’re
preparing to take aggressive action under this executive order to impose
targeted sanctions against a range of individuals and entities. What
we’re communicating to the parties on the ground is that we must see
meaningful steps within weeks to initiate discussions to achieve a
negotiated ceasefire, allow in an unhindered humanitarian access, and
ensure respect for human rights. Absent significant progress, we’ll take
action. And we have the methods to do that. That’s why I rec- — talked
about the executive order.  
  
Q  And then on Guinea, we’ve had so many coups in Africa. The President
of Guinea has been overthrown. The President of Mali has been
overthrown. And we just had the Prime Minister of Sudan who just
survived a coup attempt. And the President promised to defend democracy
around the world. Is he failing in that promise?  
  
MS. PSAKI: He doesn’t expect that to be accomplished in nine months. He
expects that to be accomplished over the course of time for advocating
for democracy, for human rights, for imposing steps when warranted, and
— as we are considering right now in Ethiopia — and obviously by having
a strong national security team that can convey this on his behalf when
he cannot.  
 Go ahead.  
  
Q  I just have a question on Africa.  
  
Q  Thanks, Jen. On —  
  
MS. PSAKI: Go ahead. I’ll come back to you next.  
  
Q  Thanks, Jen. Just to follow up on Mike’s question on what the Cuban
foreign minister said. Just to be specific, he said, “It’s a pity that
President Biden couldn’t implement his own policy toward Cuba.” And I
just wondered if you had a specific response.  
  
MS. PSAKI: I don’t.  
  
Q  And there’s a U.S. delegation — top officials going to
Port-au-Prince. What’s the goal of that visit?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Yeah, I have some details on this, including who is going.
So, let’s see. So, what they’re doing — one, we feel it’s pretty pivotal
to have high-level officials from here engaged in traveling back and
forth to Port-au-Prince to have discussions with actors across the
political spectrum to see what we can do to help support dialogue and
development for the Haitian people.  
  
We know it’s clearly a profoundly challenging time on the ground, and
it’s crucial that we meet with a range of stakeholders to help move this
process forward or help support the process moving forward in a way
that’s in the interest of the Haitian people. So, this is really an
effort to be engaged, to be on the ground.  
  
I can tell you — and you may know this already — that our newly
confirmed Assistant Secretary for Western Hemisphere, Brian Nichols, is
on this as a part of this delegation; our NSC Senior Director for the
Western Hemisphere, Juan Gonzales, are there. They’re meeting with civil
society groups, political stakeholders, the Haitian government. And
they’re, of course, as I noted, discussing a Haitian-led process
charting the path to democratic elections.  
  
But that’s the focus, as well as discussing how we can continue to help
provide support for the migration response, security, recovery from the
earthquake, and the COVID pandemic.  
  
Q  Jen, last question.  
  
Q  Secretary Mayorkas had said he expected the results of an
investigation on the Border Patrol officers —  
  
MS. PSAKI: Yeah.  
  
Q  — on horseback by the end of this week. What’s the status of that
investigation?  
  
MS. PSAKI: I know he said that; as I understand, it’s still on track.
But I would really point you to the Department of Homeland Security on
any update.  
  
Brian, why don’t we go to you last?  
  
Q  Yeah, thank you.  
  
Q  Oh, you said —  
  
Q  Thank you very much. And I appreciate it. I’m — I wanted to ask what
the President’s reaction is to Democratic lawmakers calling on him to
lean more on Senator Manchin and Senator Sinema. What is the President’s
reaction to that?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Well, I would say, first, the President’s reaction is — he’s
been in the — he was in the Senate for 36 years. He knows, as does
Speaker Pelosi, Leader Schumer, what it takes at this point in
negotiations. They’ve probably done this more, and more successfully,
than any combinations of Democratic leaders in history.  
  
And his approach has been: Yes, of course, it’s listening. Yes, of
course, it’s conveying viewpoints and having sometimes, you know, direct
and candid discussions, but he knows how to do this.  
  
And a lot of people who are throwing stones aren’t a part of these
negotiations. They’re one on one. So, I think they should leave it to
him and others to get them done.  
  
Q  But there are members of his party that want him to be more actively
involved, and have come out publicly and said, “We want to see the
President more actively involved.” What’s his response to that?  
  
MS. PSAKI: I would say that — as I would point to something
Congresswoman Jayapal said yesterday, “Right now, it’s not a secret
about what is the holdup.” The holdup is that we need to get 50 votes in
the Senate to move the infrastructure, to move the reconciliation
package forward, in order for members of the Progressive Caucus in the
house to feel comfortable that there’s a path forward.  
  
As many of them have conveyed, the President’s role and work in
communicating with Senator Manchin and Senator Sinema to help get that
done is probably one of the most constructive roles he can play. And
that’s what he’s been focused on over the last few days.  
  
Q  My follow-up question, Jen?  
  
MS. PSAKI: Thanks so much, everyone.  
  
Okay, last one, because I promised you. Go ahead.  
  
Q  Thank you. Jen, the President of Angola — President João Lourenço —
was in D.C. last week, and he met with Jake Sullivan and Madam Speaker
of the House. And I just want to check with you if the President made
any comment about this visit, because Jake Sullivan, on the day that he
met my president, he said he would brief the President on that day. So,
I don’t — I’m trying to check with you if you heard any comments from
the President (inaudible).  
  
MS. PSAKI: I don’t have any additional comment. I think we put a readout
out about Jake Sullivan’s meeting, but I don’t have any additional
comments.  
  
Thanks so much, everyone.  
  
3:19 P.M. EDT
