---
tags: press-briefings
date: '2021-09-28'
modified_time: 2021-09-28 15:35:22-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/09/28/press-briefing-by-white-house-covid-19-response-team-and-public-health-officials-58/
published_time: 2021-09-28 16:00:00-04:00
title: "Press Briefing by White\_House COVID-\u206019 Response Team and Public Health\_\
  Officials"
---
 
Via Teleconference

12:34 P.M. EDT  
  
MR. ZIENTS: Good afternoon. Thanks for joining us. Today, I’m joined by
Drs. Nunez-Smith, Walensky, and Fauci.  
  
First, I’ll give an update on our vaccinations program. I’ll begin with
booster shots.  
  
For weeks, we worked with partners — including governors, pharmacies,
doctors, and long-term care facilities — to get ready for boosters. As a
result, we were ready to get booster shots in arms on Friday,
immediately following the FDA and CDC recommendations.  
  
Our planning and preparation on boosters have propelled a strong start.
Just over this past weekend, at pharmacies alone, over 400,000 Americans
received the additional protection of a booster, and almost 1 million
people have already scheduled their booster shots through pharmacies
over the coming weeks.  
  
Massachusetts and several other states are reaching out to millions of
eligible individuals via text messages and email.  
  
And New Jersey is opening three mass vaccination centers to get booster
shots in arms — something all states, Tribes, and territories are able
to do with support from the federal government, including 100 percent
reimbursement.  
  
And the Department of Veterans Affairs and the Indian Health Service are
getting thousands of booster shots in arms each day.  
  
So, we’re off to a very strong start with the booster campaign. And we
will continue working with our partners to execute so we can efficiently
and equitably provide the added protection of booster shots to eligible
Americans.  
  
At the same time, our top priority remains first and second shots.
Overall, more than 3 out of 4 eligible Americans — those Americans 12
and older — have gotten at least their first shot. Importantly, 94
percent of seniors — those 65 and older — have at least one shot. And
tomorrow, we will hit an important milestone: 200 million adults with at
least one shot.  
  
On his first full day in office, President Biden released a
comprehensive plan: the National Strategy for the COVID-19 Response and
Pandemic Preparedness. A central tenet of our approach since day one has
been protecting those most at risk and advancing equity, including
across racial and ethnic lines.  
  
And through all aspects of our vaccination program, we have executed:
getting vaccines to community health centers, meeting people where they
are and sending vaccines to hard-hit areas via mobile clinics, and
partnering with trusted messengers on the ground, including faith
leaders, community-organizations, local doctors, and barber and beauty
shops, to get shots in arms.  
  
Today, new data from the Kaiser Family Foundation show that President
Biden’s strategy and our focus on advancing equity have made a huge
difference in closing gaps across racial and ethnic groups.  
  
Seventy-three percent of Latinos and seventy percent of Black Americans
have now gotten at least their first shot. That compares to 71 percent
of white Americans.  
  
The Kaiser data clearly show that our relentless focus on advancing
equity and ensuring our response reaches the hardest-hit communities and
those most at risk has closed the gaps in racial and ethnic vaccination
rates.  
  
We know our work isn’t done, but this is important progress. We cannot
and will not let up. In the weeks and months ahead, we’ll continue to
ensure equity and fairness as we vaccinate more Americans and get
booster shots in arms.  
  
With that, let me turn it over to Dr. Nunez-Smith, Chair of the
President’s COVID-19 Health Equity Task Force, to discuss further our
work to advance equity in more detail.  
  
Dr. Nunez-Smith.  
  
DR. NUNEZ-SMITH: Thanks so much, Jeff. I just couldn’t agree with you
more about the importance of those data that were released earlier today
from the Kaiser Family Foundation. You know, that’s our latest data
point in our nation’s fight against this pandemic, and it’s very, very
encouraging to see.  
  
So, I want to take a few minutes now to provide some additional context
to these most recent data and to also talk about the road ahead.  
  
Back in May, just before President Biden’s National Month of Action to
mobilize an all-of-America sprint to get U.S. adults vaccinated, this
very same survey showed that only 56 percent of Black adults and 57
percent of Hispanic adults were vaccinated. And that was compared to 65
percent of white adults who were vaccinated by that point — a gap of 9
percentage points between Black and white adults.  
  
There were many reasons for this gap, including barriers to vaccine
access. And some still had concerns about the safety, the efficacy of
the vaccine, and those concerns were often rooted in misinformation.  
  
Those numbers that you noted, Jeff — 70 percent of Black adults, 71
percent of white adults, and 73 percent of Hispanic adults have now had
at least one shot of the vaccines. That’s the result of intentional work
to address those barriers, to address those concerns. And they are not
only seen in the Kaiser Family Foundation data that were released
earlier today.  
  
Three weeks ago, Pew Research Center surveyed over 10,000 adults online
and found that 70 percent of Black adults, 72 percent of white adults,
and 76 percent of Hispanic adults have received at least one dose of the
vaccine.  
  
Just last week, the CDC’s National Immunization Survey of 19,000 adults
by phone found that 73 percent of Black adults, 76 percent of white
adults, and 78 percent of Hispanic adults have now been vaccinated.  
  
So, while these numbers differ slightly, the weight of these and other
recent studies — it’s confirmation we’ve made important progress in
increasing vaccination rates and in decreasing vaccination inequities.  
  
These numbers represent much more than simply time passing. They tell
the story of an all-of-society effort to get us to where we are today:
those employers who offered paid time off for their employees; the
childcare providers who offer drop-in services for caregivers so they
could go get vaccinated; the public transit authorities and ride-sharing
companies providing free rides to vaccination sites; and to every person
who drove a neighbor, a coworker, or friend to get vaccinated; the
churches, the civic organizations, barbershops, beauty salons, who
opened their doors to be trusted spaces for vaccinations; the work of
the local doctors, nurses and pharmacists who got on the radio, TV, or
in the newspaper to share the facts, the data, and the science with
their communities; all the creatives, all the space makers who dedicated
their own platforms to advancing a critical public health priority; and
the moms who encouraged their sons to get vaccinated and the daughters
who encouraged their fathers to get vaccinated — the families who made
vaccination a family affair.   
  
And that’s not a full list. Those are just some of the ways that these
gaps have all but closed in communities of color in the recent months. I
also want to note that, throughout this time, other communities of color
— Indigenous and Native and Asian communities — have also been leading
the way, making sure people are connected with vaccination every single
day.  
  
So, as a result, these communities continue to comprise a share of the
vaccination that exceeds their group’s share of the overall population.
So, progress. But we know there is work still to be done. It remains the
case that somewhere around one in four adults across communities remain
unvaccinated, unprotected against this virus.  
  
We, of course, continue to see new hospitalizations and deaths from
COVID that we can prevent. We just need to have the strength and the
commitment to one another and to keep pulling and to keep fighting and
to finish the job.  
  
This coming Thursday, on September 30th, our COVID-19 Health Equity Task
Force, established by President Biden by executive order back in
January, will be meeting for the seventh time. And this month, we’re
meeting to vote on the final recommendations that we’ll deliver to the
President for mitigating the health inequities caused and exacerbated by
the COVID-19 pandemic and to help prevent these inequities in the
future.  
  
The meeting is open to the public; it can be viewed live on HHS.gov/live
at 2:00 p.m. Eastern Standard Time.  
  
And the submission of the final report with these recommendations will
be after our final public meeting at the end of October. And we hope
you’ll join us because, today and every day, we’re in this together.  
  
So, with that, I’ll turn it over to you, Dr. Walensky.  
  
DR. WALENSKY: Thank you so much, Dr. Nunez-Smith. Good afternoon. Let’s
begin with an overview of the data. Our seven-day average of cases is
about 95,000 per day. The seven-day average of hospital admissions is
approximately 8,500 per day. And the seven-day average of daily deaths
is 1,300 per day.  
  
When I spoke with you last Friday, we covered CDC’s recommendations and
our decision to offer Pfizer vaccine booster doses to specific
communities.  
  
For those who received a Pfizer primary series and who are at least six
months after their second dose, the following Americans are eligible for
a booster: those over the age of 65; those 18 and older who have an
underlying medical condition such as asthma, diabetes, or obesity; and
those 18 and older who live or work in a high-risk setting like a
hospital, school, grocery store, long-term care facility, or a homeless
shelter.  
  
Although protection against hospitalization and death remains quite
high, we are starting to see these populations have some decreased
protection against SARS-CoV-2 infection, likely due to both waning and
to the Delta variant.  
  
Many of the people in these groups were some of the first people in the
country to receive their vaccine. They also include people who, because
of where they work or live, may have high rates of exposure to COVID-19.
And they are the same people who remain essential to our current
COVID-19 response, like healthcare workers and teachers, as well as
those in frontline jobs. Their wellbeing is essential to keeping
hospitals staffed, schools open, and many other essential parts of
society functioning.  
  
Both FDA and CDC reviewed data on the safety of booster shots, including
for those who are 18 to 64. Today, we’re releasing a new publication in
the MMWR that shows that COVID-19 vaccine booster doses, so far, are
well tolerated. This report includes some of the data of our early
experience with third doses that FDA and CDC reviewed when they made
their recommendations about boosters.  
  
The frequency and type of side effects were similar to those seen after
the second vaccine doses and were mostly mild or moderate and
short-lived.  
  
If you are eligible for a vaccine booster and you have questions, I
encourage you to go to Vaccines.gov. Talk with your healthcare provider,
pharmacist, or health professional about your current risk for COVID-19,
the benefit of a vaccine booster dose, and the safety of receiving an
additional dose.  
  
We will continue to evaluate data as it becomes available in real time
and with urgency, and update our recommendations to make sure that all
of those at risk have the protection they need. This includes those who
received the Moderna and J&J vaccines as their primary vaccine and also
those younger Americans who are not currently eligible for a booster
dose.  
  
As I said last week, this action is an initial step related to booster
shots. It will not distract us from our most important focus: to get as
many people as possible vaccinated with a primary series.  
  
We remain steadfast in our effort to vaccinate as many people as
possible and to continue our fight against COVID-19. Those who are
unvaccinated remain the most vulnerable to infection, severe disease,
hospitalization. And currently, there are over 70 million eligible
Americans who remain unvaccinated.  
  
The best way to protect everyone — including those who are not yet
eligible to be vaccinated, such as our children less than 12 — is to
vaccinate as many eligible people as possible.  
  
My closing ask to you is: If you have not been vaccinated, please do so.
If your neighbor, family member, or friend has not yet been vaccinated,
please assist in providing them the resources to get there.  
  
Thank you. I’ll now turn things over to Dr. Fauci.  
  
DR. FAUCI: Thank you very much, Dr. Walensky. What I’d like to do over
the next couple of minutes is make the point of the importance of
vaccination from somewhat of a different standpoint than we usually
do.  
  
My father was eight years old in 1918 when the historic influenza
pandemic occurred. We all know about that. I remember him telling me,
particularly after I had made a decision to go to medical school, about
the frustration and concern that all of — him, his relatives, and
friends were going through back then, and how he lost cousins and
uncles, namely people who are generally young.  
  
And the one point that he made is that they were very frustrated because
not only did they not know what the etiologic agent was, they had very,
very little pharmacological intervention. Namely, they did not have any
vaccine.  
  
So what we decided to do — my colleagues and I — next slide, please — is
that David Morens, Jeff Taubenberger, and I — in May and then again in
August of this year — wrote, in The American Journal of Public Health
two articles that — a two-part article, which we called “A Centenary
Tale of Two Pandemics,” in which we looked at the 1918 influenza
pandemic and the COVID-19 pandemic for multiple different parameters,
which we called “variables.”  
  
Next slide.  
  
And if you look at the slide and compare one against the other, in
public health tools, there’s one thing there that sticks out so boldly.
Back then, they had crude early bacterial vaccines that likely never
would have gotten approved by the regulatory and public health
authorities today. But they did not know what the etiologic agent was,
whereas today we have a highly specific, highly effective, and very safe
vaccine.  
  
They did things somewhat similar. They did closures. They did isolation.
They did social distancing. But what we have is other things, like
sophisticated ventilation, HEPA airflow.  
  
They had the same print media, but now we have social media. They had
some supportive care, but they didn’t have ICUs, critical care,
mechanical ventilation, ECMO. They didn’t have any microbials — we do;
we have antivirals. They had the same problem with quack and unproven
remedies that we have today.  
  
But the thing that really stands out in all of this was the issue of a
safe and effective vaccine.  
  
Next slide.

And so if you look now, I’ve entitled this slide: “Vaccinations in the
United States: Much Accomplished, \[But Also\] Much to Do.”

Jeff gave you some numbers about those in this country with at least one
dose, and the numbers fall under the “much accomplished.” If you look at
people who are fully vaccinated, almost 184 million. About 2.78
\[million\] — and now counting — of people who’ve received an additional
booster dose. But we’ve done very well.  
  
But, in fact, there are still, as we’ve all mentioned over and over
again, there are approximately 70 million people in this country who
have not been vaccinated. If you go back and look at the very, very many
deaths that occurred back in 1918, the overwhelming majority of those
deaths would have been avoided if back then, when my father was eight
years old, they had a vaccine. But they didn’t.  
  
We do. And if we look at the people already who have died, the
overwhelming majority of the people who’ve died from COVID-19 were
people who were unvaccinated.  
  
And so, we have something my father did not have. Let us use it.  
  
Last slide.  
  
And that gets back to what we say all the time: After Delta became the
most common variant, fully vaccinated people had a 5 times less risk of
infection and more than a 10 times less risk of hospitalization and
deaths.  
  
Message again: Get vaccinated.  
  
Back to you, Jeff.  
  
MR. ZIENTS: Well, thank you, Doctors. Let’s open it up for a few
questions. Over to you, Kevin.  
  
MODERATOR: First question, let’s go to Liz Weise at USA Today.  
  
Q  Excellent. Thank you so much. I had a question — and this is for Dr.
Fauci — because prior to vaccines being available, there had been a lot
of discussion about how in the U.S. we might reach herd immunity through
natural infection.  We have a surgeon general in Florida who’s a
proponent of this. Given the high rates of COVID infection among the
unvaccinated, shouldn’t we have reached herd immunity in that population
by now?  
  
DR. FAUCI: You know, as I’ve said so many times, herd immunity is really
a complicated issue of protection by vaccination and those who have
continued in durable protection following infection.  
  
We do not know what that number is right now. Herd immunity is a
concept, namely that most people, whatever that number is — and it
varies from infection to infection; for measles, it’s over 90 percent.  
  
You know when you are at herd immunity when the virus doesn’t have
opportunity to go from person to person. But right now, we don’t know
what that number is. And when you don’t know what the number is, what do
you do? You vaccinate as many people as you possibly can, as quickly and
as expeditiously as you possibly can. That’s what we should be
concentrating on, not any particular number.  
  
MR. ZIENTS: Next question.  
  
MODERATOR: Let’s go to Yamiche at PBS.  
  
Q  Thanks so much for taking my question. Two quick questions. The first
is: A Kaiser Family Foundation survey found that something like 71
percent of unvaccinated respondents said boosters were a sign that
vaccines are not working. I’m wondering what the administration is doing
to counter that concept, given all the vaccine disinformation out
there.  
  
And then the second question I have is: Can you talk a bit more about
why the vaccines are safe for pregnant women? I’ve seen some studies and
heard some of you talk about this, but I’m wondering if you can just
lend your voice more to explaining to people who have concerns over
pregnant women taking the booster shots and the vaccines.  
  
MR. ZIENTS: So, Dr. Walensky, why don’t you address pregnancy, and, Dr.
Nunez-Smith, we’ll come to you on the booster shot message.  
  
DR. WALENSKY: Happy to. Thank you. We are fortunate now to have
extraordinary safety data with all of these vaccines. We know that
pregnant women are at increased risk of severe disease, of
hospitalization, and ventilation. They’re also at increased risk for
adverse events to their baby.  
  
We now have data that demonstrates that vaccines in whatever time in
pregnancy or lactating that they’re given are actually safe and
effective and have no adverse events to mom or to baby. And we’ve
actually seen that, in fact, some antibody from the vaccine traverses to
the baby and, in fact, could potentially protect the baby.  
  
I think what’s really important here to emphasize is we know that about
30 percent of women who are pregnant right now are vaccinated — an
extraordinarily low number — and, in fact, about 15 percent of African
American women who are pregnant are vaccinated, and this puts them at
severe risk of severe disease from COVID-19. In August this year, we
lost 21 pregnant women to COVID-19.  
  
So, we absolutely have the data that demonstrates the overwhelming
benefit of vaccine and, really, very little safety concerns at all.  
  
MR. ZIENTS: Dr. Nunez-Smith.  
  
DR. NUNEZ-SMITH: Yes, thank you. You know, our primary focus remains in
connecting people who are unvaccinated with vaccine. That’s what we know
works, what we know will get us to the other side of the pandemic.  
  
So, it’s really important for those people who are still deciding —
right? — and are now wondering about booster, that we continue to reach
them where they are.  
  
The fundamentals of our strategy remain the same. This is about a
national public education campaign that is implemented through and with
local partners. And so continuing to get that message out to people.  
  
What we know now — you know, what Dr. Fauci ended with — that people who
are vaccinated now are protected against illness, the most severe
outcomes of COVID-19.  
  
So we are very aware of those data and continuing that strategy to
connect with people, answer their questions, provide them the evidence
that the vaccines are safe and effective.  
  
MR. ZIENTS: Next question.  
  
MODERATOR: Let’s go to Ebony McMorris at American Urban Radio Network.  
  
All right, Ebony, we’ll come back to you.  
  
Q  Can you hear me?  
  
MODERATOR: Yes. Hi, Ebony.  
  
Q  Okay. I’m sorry. Hi. Two quick questions. I know you’re still
weighing the effects of people switching their vaccines — so, going from
Pfizer to Moderna or J&J to something else. Is there any update that you
can give us as far as that’s concerned, and also an update on what
you’re seeing as far as long-term effects on those who have had COVID
and how you’re gathering that data?  
  
MR. ZIENTS: Dr. Fauci.  
  
DR. FAUCI: Yes. The mix-and-match studies that I’ve mentioned on several
of these interviews are ongoing. The mix-and-match study in which you
look at Moderna as the boost against the other three, those data are now
available.  
  
The J&J as the boost for the other three likely will be available
literally within a week — a few days to a week. And the data on looking
at Pfizer as the boost to the other three will be available somewhere in
the first week, or at the most two, of October. That’s when the data
will be available.  
  
Of course, as with all things we do, they must be submitted to the FDA
for their regulatory approval. So you don’t want to get ahead of the
FDA, but at least that’s where the data are right now. Thank you.  
  
MR. ZIENTS: What was the second question? Can you repeat that, Ebony,
please?  
  
MODERATOR: Ebony, you need to unmute yourself.  
  
Q  The — I’m sorry. The second question was an update on what you’re
seeing as far as long-term effects of COVID-19 on elderly and how you’re
gathering that data.  
  
DR. FAUCI: Yeah, I can — I can answer that, Jeff. We’re doing a very
large cohort study that has been started, the award has been made, to
look at any of a number of different groups of individuals of all ages,
from young individuals — children — to elderly individuals, to look at:
A, the occurrence; B, the duration; C, the pathogenesis, if at all we
can gather that; and then, D, if anything, can we prevent and or treat
this.  
  
DR. WALENSKY: And maybe I’ll just add that we also have cohort studies
ongoing with numerous academic institutions, as well as surveillance
studies, that are doing survey data, in collaboration with numerous
states, to understand the impact of long COVID as well.  
  
MR. ZIENTS: Next question, please.  
  
MODERATOR: Let’s go to Rafael at Univision.  
  
Q  Thank you. My question is to Dr. Walensky. Here in Georgia, we met —
we have many Hispanic families worried about their unvaccinated kids
that are still un-eligible. And there are some superintendents in our
state that haven’t taken the recommendations by the CDC.  
  
So, I would like you to remind us what the science behind the use of
masks is to — that made the CDC say that it actually helps stop the
spread. I understand there’s a study you guys published on Friday that
show the results on Arizona, if I’m not mistaken. So can you please help
a person understand why is that important. And also for — you know, for
them to also speak to their superintendents and let them know that the
science reflects that the masks really work in schools. Thank you.  
  
DR. WALENSKY: Thank you, Rafael. So, several points: One is that the
best way to protect our unvaccinated — and that includes our young
children — is to surround them by people who are vaccinated. So, get
vaccinated yourself. It would be great to have everybody who is eligible
to be vaccinated to get vaccinated to better protect the people who are
around them.  
  
You’re referring to a study that was done in Arizona, published on
Friday, that demonstrated that in jurisdictions that had masking early
in their school year this year, they had a three and a half times less
likely — were three and a half times less likely to have outbreaks in
the school.  
  
This, of course, was a study that was published this week related to
this schoolyear, but we have numerous studies from last schoolyear that
repeatedly demonstrate that school outbreaks are prevented when we have
masking in schools.  
  
MR. ZIENTS: Okay, why don’t we take one last question, Kevin.  
  
MODERATOR: Last question. Let’s go to Sheryl Stolberg at New York
Times.  
  
Q  Hi. Thanks for taking my question. You’ve talked a lot about closing
the racial divide in vaccination, but if you look at the Kaiser Family
survey, the biggest divide is really a partisan divide: 90 percent of
Democrats are vaccinated, but the groups least likely to be vaccinated
are white, evangelical Christians, rural residents, Republicans, and the
uninsured under age 65.  
  
So, given that the President is not the best messenger, perhaps, for
these groups, I’m wondering: What specific steps have you taken to close
the gap with those communities — Republicans and conservatives? Or do
you think that they are simply not persuadable?  
  
MR. ZIENTS: Dr. Nunez-Smith.  
  
DR. NUNEZ-SMITH: Yes, thank you for the question. And so, we think
everybody is worth that investment — right? — to connect with them and
to make sure that they have the information. And it’s absolutely right,
in hearing the question, the messenger matters and the message
matters.  
  
I’ve been very, you know, grateful to be in conversation in many
stakeholder roundtables, including with many of the people from the
groups that you just listed, to help inform the national public
education campaign and the strategies to connect with communities.  
  
It might take a little bit longer but we are absolutely laser-focused on
reaching everyone, making sure people know the vaccines do work — safe
and effective. We’re all here as public health professionals and
physicians, not as politicians, and that is important to convey to
everybody. This is not a political or partisan issue in the least; it’s
a public health crisis, and we have the tools that we know work to get
us all safely through and to the other side.  
  
MR. ZIENTS: The thing I’d add, Sheryl, is that all of our work to date
and all of the research says that the right way to reach people is
locally and in communities with faith leaders local to the community,
local doctors and other health providers. And we’ve made a concerted
effort to ensure that those efforts are well funded, that we’re getting
the message out with a real local emphasis. And we all know the
importance of doctors and health professionals in terms of reaching
people in a trusted messenger way.  
  
Thank you for today’s briefing, and we look forward to seeing everybody
soon. Thank you.  
  
1:05 P.M. EDT  
  
  
  
  
  

To view the COVID Press Briefing slides,
visit: <https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/09/COVID-Press-Briefing_28September2021.pdf>
