---
date: '2024-04-29'
modified_time: 2024-04-29 16:15:30-04:00
published_time: 2024-04-29 05:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/04/29/fact-sheet-celebrating-national-small-business-week-biden-harris-administration-announces-a-record-in-federal-procurement-dollars-awarded-to-small-businesses/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Celebrating National Small Business Week, Biden-\u2060Harris Administration\
  \ Announces a Record in Federal Procurement Dollars Awarded to Small\_Businesses"
---
 
*As Congressional Republicans Propose Cutting SBA Funding by 31%, White
House releases 2024 Small Business Boom Report that Shows SBA Small
Dollar Loans on Track to Nearly Double Since 2020*

Small businesses are the engines of the economy. As President Biden
says, every time someone starts a new small business, it’s an act of
hope and confidence in our economy. In celebration of National Small
Business Week, the Biden-Harris Administration is announcing new
milestones in support delivered to small businesses across the country.

Since arriving in office, the Biden-Harris Administration has overseen a
sustained small business boom across the country. The President’s agenda
has driven the first, second and third strongest years of new business
application rates on record—and is on pace for the fourth—with Americans
filing a record 17.2 million new business applications. Business
applications are a leading indicator for new business creation, and the
historic growth in business applications has coincided with the
strongest labor market in decades. And traditionally underserved small
businesses are growing at near-historic rates, with Black business
ownership growing at the fastest pace in 30 years and Latino business
ownership growing at the fastest pace in more than a decade.

Republicans in Congress have undermined small businesses by attempting
to repeal Inflation Reduction Act investments that are lowering costs
for small business. House Republicans are also threatening assistance to
small businesses across the country by proposing draconian cuts to the
Small Business Administration as part of their 31% reduction to
government-wide spending. And House Republicans would defund the
President’s agenda to advance racial and gender equity in federal
contracts.

President Biden is fighting to grow the small business boom spurred by
his agenda. Today, the Biden-Harris Administration announced:

**New Records for Federal Procurement Dollars Awarded to Small
Businesses, Including Small Disadvantaged Businesses (SDBs).** The Small
Business Administration (SBA) released its [Procurement
Scorecard](https://www.sba.gov/article/2024/04/29/biden-harris-administration-awards-record-breaking-178-billion-federal-procurement-opportunities)
showing that in Fiscal Year 2023, the Biden-Harris Administration
awarded an all-time high in federal contracts to small businesses across
federal agencies. In total, a record-high of $178.6 billion, or 28.4
percent, of all contracting dollars went to small businesses. This
includes:

-   <u>$76.2 billion to SDBs</u>, totaling 12.1 percent of federal
    contracting dollars and surpassing the 12% goal for FY23
    [established](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/10/M-23-01.pdf)
    by the Office of Management and Budget. This represents the third
    consecutive year of record-breaking awards to SDBs under President
    Biden, and puts the Administration on track to reach the President’s
    goal of increasing federal contracting dollars to SDBs [by 50% by
    2025](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/12/02/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-reforms-to-increase-equity-and-level-the-playing-field-for-underserved-small-business-owners/).
    Increasing federal investments in under-resourced businesses helps
    more Americans realize their entrepreneurial dreams, strengthens the
    supplier base, and contributes to narrowing persistent wealth
    disparities.

<!-- -->

-   $32 billion to Service-Disabled Veteran Owned Small Businesses
    (SDVOSB), representing a nearly $4 billion increase from Fiscal
    Year 2022. The Administration surpassed its goal by nearly 70%, with
    a total of 5.07 percent of federal contracting dollars going to
    SDVOSB.
-   In FY23, government contracting with small businesses supported one
    million jobs, includingin manufacturing, construction, research &
    development, technology, defense, and other vital industries.
-   Across the federal government, 22 agencies received an ‘A’ or higher
    on their individual procurement scorecards, surpassing last year’s
    total.
-   In conjunction with the scorecard, the SBA [released federal
    contract data](https://www.sba.gov/disaggregated-data/2023) broken
    down by business owner race and ethnicity for FY23, which shows that
    businesses owned by historically underrepresented groups earned more
    through federal contracts across every category.

**Release of Third Annual Small Business Boom Report.** The White House
released its third annual [Small Business Boom
Report](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/04/Small-Business-Boom-Report-2024.pdf),
illustrating the continued achievements of the Biden-Harris
Administration to support small businesses by expanding access to
capital, providing small businesses with more hands-on support, ensuring
federal spending benefits small businesses, and building a fairer tax
code. The report shows the Administration has continued to make historic
progress on all 35 commitments in the original report including:

-   <u>SBA has nearly doubled small dollar loans.</u> Small businesses
    consistently voice the need for access to small dollar loans,
    with [survey](https://www.fedsmallbusiness.org/survey/2022/report-on-employer-firms) results
    indicating over 50% of small businesses seek loans of less than
    $100,000, but [only
    one-third](https://www.fedsmallbusiness.org/survey/2023/report-on-employer-firms)
    of the smallest businesses – those with $100,000 or less in annual
    revenue – report receiving the full funding they request from banks.
    Less than one year since implementing policy reforms to increase
    access to small dollar loans, SBA is on pace to nearly double the
    number of small loans approved compared to the final year of the
    previous Administration, with over 20,000 7(a) loans under $150,000
    approved in Fiscal Year 2024. It represents a one-third increase
    over last year, translating to 750 more businesses getting approved
    for a small dollar loans every month.

<!-- -->

-   <u>Through the American Rescue Plan’s State Small Business Credit
    Initiative approved over $8 billion in capital support for small
    businesses</u>, leveraging significantly more in private sector
    funding. Funded by the American Rescue Plan, Treasury’s nearly $10
    billion State Small Business Initiative (SSBCI) program delivers
    funding to states, territories, and tribal governments that spur
    lending and investing in small businesses, and provides critical
    technical assistance. So far, Treasury has approved $8.4 billion in
    allocations to 55 states and territories and 34 tribal governments
    that are expected to catalyze at least $10 in private investment for
    each dollar of SSBCI capital funding. Already [$1.1
    billion](https://home.treasury.gov/system/files/256/SSBCI-QuarterlyReport-Mar29.pdf)
    of approved funding has been deployed to support loans or
    investments to small businesses or investments in venture capital
    funds. To date, Treasury has also announced the approval of more
    than $135 million in technical assistance grants to 40 states and
    territories.

<!-- -->

-   <u>Delivering more than $250 billion to small businesses through
    SBA’s lending programs by the end of the decade.</u> In 2021, SBA
    committed to delivering more than $250 billion in financing to more
    than 500,000 small businesses by the end of the decade. Under this
    Administration, SBA has taken numerous steps to expand access to
    capital including finalizing rules to increase small dollar lending,
    expanding programs that help connect traditionally underserved
    businesses with resources, and revamping its Lender Match portal. As
    a result, SBA has delivered nearly $124 billion in financing to
    small businesses through its 7(a), 504, and microloan programs,
    putting them on pace to reach their goal.

\###
