---
date: '2024-04-10'
published_time: 2024-04-10 14:57:32-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/04/10/fact-sheet-japan-official-visit-with-state-dinner-to-the-united-states/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Japan Official Visit with State Dinner to the United\_States"
---
 
Today, President Biden welcomed Prime Minister Kishida of Japan for an
Official Visit with State Dinner to celebrate the deep and historic ties
between our two countries. This visit also reflects the upward
trajectory of the U.S.-Japan Alliance as it evolves into a global
partnership that promotes a shared vision of progress and prosperity for
the future. The two leaders’ ambitious efforts span the depth and
breadth of the Alliance to include cooperation on defense and security;
space; advanced technology and economic cooperation; diplomacy and
development; and people-to-people ties.

This bilaterally coordinated fact sheet provides an overview of
political understandings that were affirmed or reaffirmed during the
Official Visit with State Dinner, as well as plans for further
cooperative activities between the United States and Japan.

**DEFENSE AND SECURITY COOPERATION**

Our defense and security ties form the core of our Alliance and are the
cornerstone of regional peace and security. Recognizing that the
Alliance has reached new heights, we plan to further bolster our defense
and security cooperation to allow for greater coordination and
integration.

**Upgrading Alliance Command and Control:** The United States and Japan
intend to bilaterally upgrade our respective command and control
frameworks to enable seamless integration of operations and capabilities
and allow for greater interoperability and planning between U.S. and
Japanese forces in peacetime and during contingencies. More effective
U.S.-Japan Alliance command and control provides strengthened deterrence
and promotes a free and open Indo-Pacific in the face of pressing
regional security challenges. In order to support this initiative, they
reaffirm to deepen Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR)
cooperation and Alliance information sharing capabilities, including
through the Bilateral Information Analysis Cell.

**Exploring Advanced Capabilities Cooperation under AUKUS Pillar II:**
Recognizing Japan’s strengths and the close bilateral defense
partnerships with the AUKUS countries, AUKUS partners – Australia, the
United Kingdom, and the United States – are considering cooperation with
Japan on AUKUS Pillar II advanced capability projects.

**Bolstering Regional Networked Security:** As our two countries deepen
cooperation and coordination within the Alliance, we also look to expand
our efforts to enhance regional security. The United States and Japan
intend to work together toward our vision to cooperate on a networked
air defense architecture, incorporating future capabilities with
Australia. We will explore enhanced cooperation, including missile
defense information sharing to counter growing air and missile threats.
As our two countries look to ensure a secure and peaceful region, the
United States and Japan plan to conduct deterrence operations to address
escalatory or provocative activities around Japan.

**Deepening U.S.-Japan Defense Industry Cooperation**: The United States
and Japan plan to leverage our respective industrial bases to establish
an Alliance defense production capacity to meet the demand for critical
capabilities over the long term. We will convene a Forum on Defense
Industrial Cooperation, Acquisition and Sustainment (DICAS) co-led by
the U.S. Department of Defense and Japan Ministry of Defense to identify
priority areas for partnering U.S. and Japanese industry, including on
co-development, co-production and co-sustainment. As a part of this
mutually beneficial effort, we announce our intention to explore
co-production of advanced and interoperable missiles for air defense and
other purposes to further bolster the Alliance deterrence posture. Our
two countries also commit to establishing a working group to explore
opportunities for future fighter pilot training and readiness, including
AI and advanced simulators, and co-development and co-production of
cutting-edge technologies such as common jet trainers to maintain
combat-ready next-generation fighter airpower.

**Leveraging Regional Maintenance and Repair Capabilities:** The U.S.
Department of Defense plans to work with U.S. Congress to authorize the
U.S. Navy to use private shipyards to conduct maintenance and repairs of
90 days or less on U.S. Navy ships deployed to the Indo-Pacific from
homeports in the United States, including Guam. Additionally, the U.S.
Navy continues to review opportunities to conduct maintenance and repair
of forward-deployed U.S. Navy ships at Japanese commercial shipyards.
The United States and Japan plan to explore the possibility of
conducting maintenance and repair on engines of Japan-based U.S. Air
Force aircrafts including fourth generation fighters. Supporting the new
DICAS’s oversight of co-sustainment, the two countries will convene the
first Working Group for Ship Repair in Japan by June 2024 to coordinate
future maintenance and repair opportunities

**Enabling Japan’s Stand-off Defense and Counter-hypersonic
Capabilities:** The United States continues to support Japan’s
capability development, highlighting the signing of the Letter of Offer
and Acceptance for Japan to acquire U.S. Tomahawk Land Attack Missiles
and the start of a training pipeline and ship modifications for Japan to
acquire operational capability. The United States and Japan plan to also
continue to pursue cooperative development of a Glide Phase Interceptor
program to counter hypersonic threats, which aims to strengthen regional
deterrence and build on long-standing missile defense cooperation
between the two countries.

**Advancing Trilateral Cooperation**: The United States and Japan with
Australia intend to seek to advance trilateral intelligence
reconnaissance, and surveillance (ISR) operational coordination,
including by identifying key capabilities to integrate into exercises
and training. Building on the announcement at the Australia Official
Visit in October 2023 to pursue trilateral cooperation with Japan on
unmanned aerial systems (UAS), our three countries are pursuing
cooperative opportunities in the rapidly emerging field of collaborative
combat aircraft and autonomy. Continuing the momentum from the Camp
David trilateral summit, we welcome progress on establishing an annual
multidomain exercise between the United States, Japan, and the Republic
of Korea (ROK). Recognizing the commitments made in the Atlantic
Declaration and the Hiroshima Accord, and as the Indo-Pacific and
Euro-Atlantic regions become ever more interlinked, both countries
welcome the announcement of regular U.S.-Japan-UK trilateral exercises,
beginning in 2025, as they enhance their shared and enduring security.

**Deepening Cooperation on Information and Cyber Security:** The two
countries pledge to continue to deepen their cooperation on information
and cyber security to ensure the Alliance stays ahead of growing threats
and builds resilience in the information and communication technology
(ICT) domain. They plan to also enhance their cooperation on the
protection of critical infrastructure. The United States and Japan plan
to establish a working group of relevant experts to develop an action
plan on achieving mutual recognition on cybersecurity labelling schemes
for Internet of Things.

**Boosting our Humanitarian Response Capacity**: Recognizing the
importance of rapidly responding to frequent and severe climate
change-related and other natural disasters, we plan to explore
cooperation on the establishment of a humanitarian assistance and
disaster relief hub in Japan.

**Deepening U.S.-Japan Defense Science and Technology Cooperation:** 
The United States and Japan continue to evolve bilateral science and
technology cooperation through the Defense Science and Technology (S&T)
Cooperation Group (DSTCG). Co-chaired by the Under Secretary of Defense
for Research and Engineering (USD(R&E)) and the Commissioner for the
Acquisition, Technology and Logistics Agency (ATLA), the DSTCG aims to
better integrate and align U.S. and Japan defense S&T ecosystems.

**Mitigating Impacts on Local Communities:** In order to maintain
deterrence and mitigate impact on local communities, we are firmly
committed to the steady implementation of the realignment of U.S. forces
in Japan in accordance with Okinawa Consolidation Plan, including the
construction of the Futenma Replacement Facility at Henoko as the only
solution that avoids the continued use of Marine Corps Air Station
Futenma.

**Cooperation on Environmental Issues:** The United States and Japan
affirm the importance of continued bilateral coordination on stable
stationing of USFJ, including on environmental cooperation.

**SPACE COOPERATION**

As we further strengthen the foundation of our alliance, we also are
looking to the future. Our two countries will continue to pioneer and
lead on space exploration to include on the Moon.

**Signing of Historic Lunar Surface Exploration Implementing
Arrangement:** The United States and Japan signed a historic
implementing arrangement for human spaceflight cooperation on the Moon.
Japan will provide and maintain a pressurized rover to support
astronauts living and working on the Moon, while the United States will
allocate two astronaut flight opportunities to the lunar surface for
Japan on future Artemis missions**.** The shared goal is fora Japanese
national to be the first non-American astronaut to land on the Moon on a
future Artemis mission. This pressurized rover is intended to enable
astronauts to travel farther and work for longer periods on the lunar
surface.

**Negotiating a Space Technology Safeguards Agreement:** The United
States and Japan commenced negotiations on a space technology safeguards
agreement which is designed to provide the legal and technical framework
for U.S. commercial space launch from Japan. The space technology
safeguards agreement has the potential to open new commercial
opportunities in a range of advanced technologies related to space.

**Expanding Space Science Cooperation**: Building on the 2023 U.S.-Japan
Framework Agreement, Japan will participate in NASA missions, including
Dragonfly and the Nancy Grace Roman Space Telescope. Dragonfly is NASA’s
robotic mission to Saturn’s moon Titan to investigate its habitability
and prebiotic chemistry wherein Japan will provide a seismometer to
Dragonfly’s suite of scientific instruments. The Roman Space Telescope
is NASA’s flagship next generation observatory; Japan will contribute
hardware to support the Coronagraph instrument as well as ground station
support. The United States and Japan plan to also collaborate on JAXA’s
Next-generation Solar-observing Satellite, SOLAR-C, which is intended to
investigate the mysteries of solar atmospheres by conducting
spectroscopic observations of UV radiations from the Sun.

**Deepening Low-Earth Orbit (LEO) Constellation Cooperation:** The
United States and Japan announced their intention to collaborate on a
future Low-Earth Orbit (LEO) Hypersonic Glide Vehicle (HGV) detection
and tracking constellation. This includes cooperation on demonstration,
bilateral analysis, information sharing, and potential collaboration
with the U.S. industrial base. The integration between U.S. and Japanese
constellations of LEO satellites provides an opportunity to improve
communications and increase the resilience of both nations’ space
capabilities.

**Enhancing Satellite Cooperation**: The United States and Japan
announced the completion of three new operational ground stations for
Japan’s Quasi-Zenith Satellite System (QZSS) in Alaska, California, and
Guam. The new ground stations will enhance Japan’s ability to monitor
and maintain the accuracy of QZSS. Furthermore, Japan will launch two
QZSS satellites hosting payloads from the Department of Defense by March
2026.

**ECONOMIC, TECHNOLOGY, AND CLIMATE COOPERATION**

Technology innovation will drive the alliance in the 21<sup>st</sup>
century. Our two countries pledge to continue to work closely together
on critical and emerging technologies such as AI, quantum,
semiconductors, and clean energy. Our enhanced collaboration and
investment in these technologies provide opportunities for greater ties
and prosperity for both of our countries as we seek to secure our
economic and technological futures.

*Economic Cooperation*

**Major Commercial Deals:** The private sector in both of our countries
recognize the incredible opportunities and promise of growing our
commercial ties, especially in areas such as critical and emerging
technologies. We welcome the establishment of a Japan Innovation Campus
supporting Japanese startups in Silicon Valley and the “Global Startup
Campus” in Tokyo, and support accelerating investment in our two
countries to foster innovation. We also welcome the following major new
and recent commercial deals, among the many, that demonstrate our strong
and vibrant economic ties:

<u>Private Sector Investment</u>

-   Microsoft has announced it will invest $2.9 billion over the next
    two years in Japan in artificial intelligence (AI) and cloud
    computing and data centers, an expanded digital skilling program to
    train more than three million people, the founding of a Microsoft
    Research lab in Japan, and cybersecurity cooperation with the
    Government of Japan to enhance Japan’s cybersecurity resilience.
-   Google plans to invest $1 billion in digital connectivity for North
    Pacific Connect, which expands the Pacific Connect Initiative, with
    NEC, to improve digital communications infrastructure between the
    United States, Japan, and Pacific Island Nations.
-   Daiichi Sankyo intends to invest $350 million in constructing a new
    manufacturing building, laboratory and warehouse at its facility in
    New Albany, Ohio. Daiichi Sankyo estimates the creation of 900 jobs
    across the United States over three years.
-   Amazon Web Services (AWS) has announced it will invest approximately
    $15 billion in Japan by 2027 to expand existing cloud infrastructure
    to serve as the backbone for AI and other digital services in the
    country. AWS estimates this planned investment could contribute up
    to $37 billion to Japan’s GDP and support an estimated average of
    more than 30,500 full-time equivalent jobs in local Japanese
    businesses each year.
-   Toyota has announced an additional investment of nearly $8 billion
    that it expects will add an estimated 3,000 more jobs to increase
    capacity to support battery electric vehicles and plug-in hybrid
    vehicles battery production in Greensboro, North Carolina.  This is
    Toyota’s first automotive battery plant in North America, and the
    plant’s total investment is now nearly $13.9 billion; Toyota expects
    it will create an estimated 5,100 jobs.
-   Honda Aircraft Company has announced an additional investment of
    $55.7 million for production of its new HondaJet 2600 model in North
    Carolina. It brings the total investment in the HondaJet business in
    North Carolina to $573.4 million. UBE Corporation has invested $500
    million in its Waggaman, Louisiana, a Justice40 community,
    electrolyte solvent facility project for batteries which it expects
    to create 60 new jobs.
-   Yaskawa Electric Corporation is investing approximately $200 million
    in new manufacturing facilities for robotics and semiconductor
    motion solutions in the states of Wisconsin and Ohio which is
    expected to employ about 1,750 workers and increase the Yaskawa
    footprint in the United States by about 25 percent.
-   MITSUI E&S, its U.S.-based subsidiary PACECO, and Brookfield are
    working together to reestablish final assembly of port cranes in
    California. This is the first time since 1989 that the United States
    has had this capacity, and it is expected to contribute to securing
    the safety of U.S. port infrastructure.
-   FUJIFILM Corporation announced an investment of $200 million in two
    U.S. subsidiaries to expand its global cell therapy contract
    development and manufacturing (CDMO) capabilities. The investments
    are earmarked for Madison, Wisconsin and Thousand Oaks, California,
    and FUJIFILM estimates the investment could create up to 160 new
    jobs.

Collaborative Government-Private Sector Engagement:

-   General Atomics Aeronautical Systems plans to provide two MQ-9B
    SeaGuardian unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) which will add high
    performance and surveillance ability to the Japan Coast Guard (JCG).
    This project will provide $152 million in U.S. exports and is
    expected to support 700 U.S. jobs.
-   As the first foreign company named as a trusted partner in Japan’s
    Moonshot program of Japan Science and Technology Agency (JST) on
    quantum computers, Infleqtion will collaborate with the Japanese
    Institute of Molecular Science (IMS) on developing a powerful
    quantum computer using Infleqtion’s quantum technology.
-   Quantinuum, a U.S. quantum computer manufacturer, plans to provide
    RIKEN, a Government of Japan National Research and Development
    Agency, exclusive access to and use of a quantum computer for a
    period of five years – representing $50 million in quantum service
    exports.

**Enhancing Financial Sector Cooperation**: The United States and Japan
are committed to strengthening our partnership to bolster cross-border
investment and support financial stability. To this end, we intend to
organize a roundtable this year, convening public and private sector
stakeholders to discuss capital markets integration, identify potential
key reforms, and bring to bear expertise from our respective financial
sectors and regulatory authorities.

**Engaging on Sustainable Investment:** The United States and Japan
pledge to continue to collaborate and build upon their foundation of
successful public-private sector engagement. This initiative enables
dialogues and forums through which to share best practices and promote
mutually beneficial opportunities for U.S. and Japanese businesses in
the areas of sustainable investment, risk management, and corporate
value creation. By the end of next year, we intend to jointly host one
or more roundtables to connect U.S. and Japanese private sector
companies with investment opportunities while promoting sustainable
value creation (SX).

**Building Transparent, Resilient, and Sustainable Supply Chains**: The
United States and Japan welcome the initiation of discussions between
the U.S. Department of Commerce and Japan’s Ministry of Economy, Trade
and Industry (METI) under the framework of the U.S.-Japan Economic
Policy Consultative Committee (our economic “2+2”) to accelerate joint
efforts to address supply chain challenges and opportunities in mutually
determined strategic sectors, such as current-generation and mature-node
(“legacy”) semiconductors, along with like-minded countries, as
appropriate. Both sides seek to cooperate to address supply chain
vulnerabilities, such as those posed by non-market policies and
practices, including by gaining a better comprehension of such
vulnerabilities in strategic sectors.

*Critical and Emerging Technology and Innovation*

**Strengthening Artificial Intelligence Research Collaboration:**
Building on the landmark university-corporate strategic partnerships in
quantum computing and semiconductor engineering launched on the
sidelines of the G7 Leaders’ Summit in Hiroshima, the United States and
Japan welcome a new $110 million joint Artificial Intelligence
partnership with the University of Washington and University of Tsukuba
as well as Carnegie Mellon University and Keio University through
funding from NVIDIA, Arm, and Amazon, Microsoft, and a consortium of
Japanese companies. This innovative partnership is expected to advance
AI research and development and enhance U.S.-Japan global leadership in
cutting-edge technology. We welcome the initiation of AI and quantum
technology cooperation between Japan’s National Institute of Advanced
Industrial Science and Technology (AIST) and NVIDIA, exploring the
potential cooperation in the field of computing and development. We
welcome the new Project Arrangement on high-performance computing and AI
between the U.S. Department of Energy and the Japan’s Ministry of
Education Culture, Sports, Science and Technology (MEXT) and the new
Memorandum of Understanding on AI for Science between Argonne National
Laboratory and RIKEN to foster collaboration. We welcome cooperation
between U.S. and Japanese companies toward the development of foundation
models for generative AI, including contribution of NVIDIA’s GPUs to
Japanese computational resources companies such as Sakura Internet and
Softbank and other computational resources from Google and Microsoft to
Japanese AI foundation models development companies.

**Launching Quantum Technology Partnerships:** To promote our bilateral
industrial cooperation on quantum computing, the U.S. National Institute
of Standards and Technology (NIST) intends to partner with Japan’s
National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology (AIST)
to build robust supply chains for quantum technology and related
standardization. The University of Chicago, the University of Tokyo, and
Seoul National University established a partnership to train a quantum
workforce and strengthen their collective competitiveness in the global
economy.

**Enhancing Cooperation on Semiconductors:** Building on our long
history of cooperation on semiconductor technology, we welcome the
initiation of discussions among Japan’s Leading-Edge Semiconductor
Technology Center (LSTC) and U.S. research initiatives, such as the U.S.
National Semiconductor Technology Center (NSTC) and the U.S. National
Advanced Packaging Manufacturing Program (NAPMP), toward the creation of
an agenda for U.S.- Japan cooperation, including an R&D roadmap and
workforce development. We welcome robust U.S.-Japan private sector
cooperation, especially in next-generation semiconductors and advanced
packaging. U.S. and Japanese companies are exploring the wide range of
possibilities available through optical semiconductors through
partnerships like the Global Innovative Optical and Wireless Networks
(IOWN) Forum.

The U.S. Department of Labor plans to invite Japanese counterparts in
the semiconductor sector to participate in technical workshops with the
U.S. private sector and educational institutions to discuss optimal ways
to train the next generation of designers, builders, and professionals
in advanced semiconductor research and manufacturing.

**Strengthening Cooperation for Safe, Secure and Trustworthy AI:** The
United States and Japan are committed to further advancing the Hiroshima
AI Process by expanding support from partner governments and AI actors.
The United States and Japan acknowledged and plan to support each other
in establishing national AI Safety Institutes and committed to future
collaboration, including on interoperable standards, methods, and
evaluations for AI safety. A crosswalk of Japan’s AI Guidelines for
Business with the NIST AI Risk Management Framework is currently
underway and is designed to promote interoperability in our policy
frameworks for AI.

**Reducing AI Risks and Harms from Synthetic Content:** The United
States and Japan pledge to cooperate on reducing risks and harms of
AI-generated content. The countries commit to provide transparency to
the public, to the extent possible and appropriate, by authenticating
and labeling official government produced content as well as detecting
and identifying AI-generated content and content altered or manipulated
by AI. Both governments plan to take steps independently and
cooperatively on technical research and standards development.

**Establishing a New Science and Technology Partnership:** The United
States and Japan announce a partnership to catalyze innovation,
facilitate knowledge exchange, and promote entrepreneurial endeavors
that contribute to the advancement of science and technology, and
through the State Department’s Global Innovation through Science and
Technology (GIST) program. The United States and Japan also endorse
joint efforts among their universities and companies to foster human
capital for the purpose of increasing governability on digital and
emerging technologies under the initiative of U.S.-Japan Digital
Innovation Hub and Advanced Technology Workshop

**Expanding National Science Foundation Collaboration:** The United
States and Japan welcome the signing of the Memorandum of Cooperation
between the National Science Foundation (NSF) and the Japan Science and
Technology Agency (JST) to partner on NSF’s Innovation Corps (I-Corps)
program. This entrepreneurship training program aims to strengthen lab
to market transition by helping researchers more effectively target
their discoveries to customer needs. Through the Global Centers program,
NSF has committed $25 million in awards for bioeconomy research and JST
will support at least three awards. The two agencies also plan to
collaborate on research on the designing materials which will
revolutionize our engineering future.

**Strengthening International Joint Research in Scientific and
Technological Fields:** The United States and Japan welcomed
strengthening collaboration between the national research institutes and
universities in science, technology, and innovation as well as the
exchange of researchers through joint research to promote U.S.-Japan
talent mobility and circulation, such as the Adopting Sustainable
Partnerships for Innovative Research Ecosystem (ASPIRE) in eight areas:
AI and information, biotechnology, energy, materials, quantum,
semiconductors, telecommunications, and healthcare. We welcome further
bilateral collaboration on global ocean observation and Arctic research.
The Pacific Northwest National Laboratory (PNNL) and Fukushima Institute
for Research, Education and Innovation (F-REI) are pursuing a Memorandum
of Cooperation to establish a collaborative relationship to increase
opportunities for joint research in select topics including energy,
robotics, radiation science, nuclear disaster response, and agriculture.

**Promoting Open and Interoperable Approaches to Telecommunications
Networks:** As the world becomes more interconnected, the United States
and Japan pledge to continue to promote open, standards-based approaches
to telecommunications networks that are interoperable, secure, and
multi-vendor in nature. The United States and Japan intend to explore
opportunities to promote Open RAN commercialization in third countries,
including Indo-Pacific countries. The United States and Japan commit to
continuing to engage both bilaterally and with like-minded partner
countries through fora such as the Quad.

*Climate and Clean Energy*

**Expanding U.S.-Japan Clean Energy and Climate Cooperation:** The
United States and Japan are launching a new high-level dialogue on our
two countries’ implementation of respective domestic measures and
maximize respective synergies and impacts, including the Inflation
Reduction Act and Green Transformation (GX) Promotion Strategy, aimed at
accelerating energy transition progress this decade, promoting
complementary and innovative clean energy supply chains, and improving
industrial competitiveness.  For the advancement of the U.S.-Japan
Climate Partnership, recalling relevant CMA decisions, we further plan
to aggressively implement our 2030 nationally determined contributions
(NDCs) and develop ambitious 2035 NDCs in line with a 1.5C warming
limit. We encourage all major economies to submit bold, 1.5C-aligned
2035 NDCs that reflect economy-wide absolute reduction targets including
all greenhouse gases, sectors, and categories, and commit to
prioritizing concrete and timely steps towards the goal of accelerating
the phase-out of domestic unabated coal power. The United States and
Japan intend to also work together to secure a successful outcome at the
29<sup>th</sup> UN Climate Change Conference on a new collective
quantified goal that reflects a realistic increment and broadened
contributor base.

**Expanding Quality Infrastructure Investment:** The United States and
Japan plan to work together and with partner countries in strategic
economic corridors on fostering investment under the Partnership for
Global Infrastructure and Investment (PGI), including cooperation in the
Indo-Pacific through the PGI-IPEF InvestmentAccelerator. Our two
countrieswill continue to seek cooperation on critical minerals and
other projects, including those along the PGI Lobito Corridor. The
United States and Japan have worked to establish a Blue Dot Network
Secretariat at the OECD to certify quality infrastructure projects.

**Building Resilient Critical Mineral Supply Chains:** The United States
and Japan resolve to explore joint projects, including through the
Minerals Security Partnership and the Partnership for Resilient and
Inclusive Supply-chain Enhancement (RISE), including ones that diversify
key supply chains of critical minerals, and support recycling efforts
for electrical and electronic scrap in the United States, Japan, and
other Indo-Pacific likeminded partners. To that end, the United States
welcomes the MOU between the Japan Organization for Metals and Energy
Security (JOGMEC) and La Générale des Carrières et des Mines (GECAMINES)
in the Democratic Republic of the Congo in alignment with our shared
commitment with PGI’s development of the Lobito Corridor.

The United States and Japan intend to continue facilitating $170 million
in annual U.S. e-scrap exports to Japan for environmentally sound
recycling under the OECD Council Decision on the Control of
Transboundary Movements of Wastes Destined for Recovery Operations and
strengthen cooperation through facilitating a policy dialogue on
increasing circularity of critical minerals and raw materials, which are
indispensable for decarbonization and reducing negative environmental
impacts.

**Deepening Energy Cooperation**: Both of our countries recognize the
importance of clean energy as we look to combat the effects of climate
change and lay the groundwork for clean and resilient economic growth
this century. The United States and Japan announced the [U.S.-Japan
Strategic Partnership to Accelerate Fusion Energy Demonstration and
Commercialization](https://www.energy.gov/articles/joint-statement-between-doe-and-japan-ministry-education-sports-science-and-technology).
The United States and Japan reaffirmed their commitment to accelerating
the global transition to zero-emissions energy and working with other
fossil energy importers and producers to minimize methane emissions
across the fossil energy value chain to the fullest extent practicable.
Both countries also intend to support the establishment of green
shipping corridors including a new grain corridor to support global
efforts to decarbonize the international shipping sector.

Today we announce Japan joins as the first international collaborator of
the U.S. Floating Offshore Wind Shot. Japan recognizes the ambition of
the U.S. Floating Offshore Wind Shot, which aims to reduce the cost of
floating offshore wind in deep waters by more than 70 percent and reach
15GW of U.S. domestic deployment by 2035. Through the partnership, the
United States and Japan will collaborate to make progress towards global
ambition in line with the U.S. Floating Offshore Wind Shot, taking into
consideration national circumstances, to accelerate breakthroughs across
engineering, manufacturing, and other innovation areas that dramatically
reduce the cost of floating offshore wind in deep waters by 2035. The
United States and Japan announced they would report publicly on progress
each year through CEESI. To work towards global ambition, Japan will
contribute with its efforts of “the Vision for Offshore Wind Industry”
and approximately 120 billion yen through the Green Innovation Fund. The
United States also welcomes Japan’s newly-launched industry platform,
the Floating Offshore Wind Technology Research Association (FLOWRA),
aiming to reduce costs and achieve mass production of floating offshore
wind through collaboration with academia. The United States will
continue its efforts under the Department of Energy’s Strategy to
Advance Offshore Wind Energy to leverage more than $5.8 billion in
cumulative public and private sector supply chain investments under the
Biden-Harris Administration. We also intend to advance research and
development for perovskite solar cell technology through the Green
Innovation Fund and the Perovskite PV Accelerator for Commercializing
Technologies (PACT) Center, led by Sandia National Laboratory.

**Expanding Infrastructure to Support Clean Energy:** Our two nations
acknowledge the need to expand and modernize power grids and energy
infrastructure to keep pace with our ambitious goals for renewable
energy deployment. We plan to explore means to boost investment in our
power grids and share best practices for grid modernization. We also
look to expand the use of market-based power purchase agreements by
companies and industries to assist access to clean energy, including
from both large nuclear reactors and advanced and small modular reactors
(A/SMRs), as they attempt to meet their own decarbonization goals and
drive innovation in power intensive industries such as Artificial
Intelligence, quantum computing, and data centers.

**Partnering to Deploy Safe and Secure Nuclear Energy:** The United
States and Japan recognize the crucial role of civil nuclear power to
meet our overarching climate goals, as affirmed in our participation in
the COP28 pledge to triple globally installed nuclear energy by 2050. In
pursuit of this vision, the United States applauds the Prime Minister’s
plan to restart nuclear reactors to meet its 2030 decarbonization goals.
Our two countries acknowledge the transformational opportunities
presented through our continued cooperation on A/SMRs, and affirm our
continued partnership on joint efforts both bilaterally and
multilaterally to deploy A/SMRs this decade.

Our two countries plan to launch the Fukushima Daiichi Decommissioning
partnership with Tokyo Electric Power Company and U.S. national
laboratories to deepen research cooperation for the steady
implementation of decommissioning the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power
Station, especially for fuel debris retrieval. Recognizing the important
role of nuclear energy to both accelerate the energy transition and
enhance energy security, the United States and Japan also resolve to
promote public-private investment in enriched uranium production
capacity free from Russian material.

**Improving Methane Emissions Data:** The United States and Japan are
collaborating, including with other international partners, to share
greenhouse gas emissions satellite observations data and make it freely
available to the public, including providing greenhouse gas information
to governments in low- and middle-income countries to support the
development of climate mitigation policies. The United States and Japan
intend to also leverage existing efforts, such as the International
Methane Emissions Observatory, to develop and disseminate accurate,
transparent methane emissions data to support methane reduction
interventions globally.

**Carbon Management:** The United States and Japan reaffirm our
commitment to the Carbon Management Challenge, Clean Energy Ministerial
(CEM) Carbon Capture Utilization and Storage (CCUS) Initiative, and to
the Mission Innovation CDR Launchpad in the pursuit of developing carbon
management technologies to support achieving the Paris Agreement goals.
Additionally, the United States commits to supporting collaboration with
Japanese counterparts to evaluate the potential for cross-border carbon
dioxide transport and storage hubs between Alaska and Japan. For
example, the United States is pursuing carbon dioxide shipping
feasibility studies and tools such as life cycle assessment and
technoeconomic analysis that can aid in this goal. We welcome the
progress of ongoing projects in carbon capture, utilization, and
storage, as well as carbon recycling, between U.S. and Japanese
companies. On e-methane, Japanese companies have signed Letters of
Intent (LOIs) with U.S. companies to avoid CO<sub>2</sub> double
counting.

**Sustainable Aviation Fuel:** The United States and Japan reaffirm our
joint aim of decarbonizing the aviation industry, including the goal of
net-zero emissions by 2050. We recognize the importance of realizing the
U.S. Sustainable Aviation Fuels (SAF) Grand Challenge 2030 goal of three
billion gallons of SAF that, compared to a petroleum-based jet fuel
baseline, will provide a significant reduction in lifecycle greenhouse
gas emissions, as well as Japan’s 2030 target of replacing 10% of the
fuel consumed by Japanese airlines with SAF. To support achieving these
goals, the United States pledges to seek to support the increase of
globally available supplies of SAFs or feedstocks, including those that
are ethanol-based, and commit to working in ICAO to identify solutions
that accurately measure and actively reduce the carbon intensity of
global SAF feedstocks and products. Simultaneously, Japan commits to
advancing R&D efforts to develop and commercialize SAF technologies,
including Alcohol-to-Jet (ATJ), through support measures by Japan’s
Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry.

**Collaborating on Hydrogen and its Derivatives, and Geothermal:** We
welcome the progress of collaboration between U.S. and Japanese
companies on building hydrogen hubs, and shared expectations for further
cooperation to build a large-scale and resilient global supply chains
based on carbon intensity and to expand utilization of hydrogen. A
Memorandum of Cooperation (MOC) on Geothermal Energy was signed between
DOE-METI at the G7 Ministers’ Meeting on Climate, Energy and Environment
in Sapporo in April 2023. Through this MOC, the United States and Japan
have been exploring next steps for collaboration.

**Investing in U.S. Infrastructure**: The U.S. Department of
Transportation and Japan’s Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport
and Tourism welcomed Amtrak’s leadership of the Texas Central High Speed
Rail Project, utilizing Shinkansen technologies, which was recently
selected for the Federal Railroad Administration’s (FRA) Corridor
Identification and Development grant program. The successful completion
of development efforts and other requirements would position the project
for potential future funding and financing opportunities.

*Biotechnology, Biopharmaceutical, and Health-Related Cooperation*

**Tackling Cancer Together:** In alignment with the Biden Cancer
Moonshot to end cancer as we know it, the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration (FDA) and Japan’s Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices
Agency (PMDA) intend to collaborate and exchange information on oncology
drug products. Specifically, under initiatives Project Nozomi and
Project Orbis, FDA and PMDA intend to work to enable earlier access to
cancer medication for patients and hold discussions on future drug
development, including multiregional clinical trials and ways to prevent
drug shortages.

**Advancing Pharmaceutical Innovation:** The United States and Japan
welcome the Japan’s Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices Agency (PMDA)’s
intent to establish an office in the Washington, D.C. metro area. This
office provides opportunities to enhance PMDA’s cooperation with the
U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and facilitate information
sharing with private industry.

**Opening of CDC Regional Office:** The U.S. Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention (CDC) opened a Regional Office for East Asia and the
Pacific in Tokyo in February. This new regional office provides support
to 26 countries and territories in the region to strengthen core global
health security capacities and collaboration to improve detection, rapid
response to disease threats, and knowledge and information exchange.

**Global Health Collaboration:**  The U.S. Agency for International
Development (USAID) and Japan’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs will
continue to discuss ways to advance shared global health priorities.

**Expanding Biotechnology and Healthcare Cooperation**: The United
States and Japan welcome the launch of a new U.S.-Japan biotechnology
and healthcare discussion, focused on promoting responsible development,
protecting key technologies, and establishing reliable and secure supply
chains. The exchange prioritizes efforts to advance industrial
competitiveness, including joint events in close partnership with
relevant U.S. and Japanese ministries and agencies, as well as academic
and private sector partners. It also bolsters work to prioritize the
safe, secure, and responsible development and use of emerging
biotechnology through close policy coordination.

**DIPLOMACY, DEVELOPMENT, AND HUMANITARIAN ASSISTANCE**

As global leaders, the United States and Japan remain committed to
ensuring a peaceful and stable Indo-Pacific region with a conviction
that the security in Euro-Atlantic and Indo-Pacific regions are
interlinked. Beyond these regions, our two countries recognize the
global challenges we jointly face and reaffirm commitments made at the
G7 Hiroshima Summit in upholding the rule of law, which protects all
nations, especially the vulnerable, and continued cooperation with
partners beyond the G7. To that end, we intend to launch a new strategic
dialogue to coordinate global diplomacy and development efforts and to
be held at the Deputy Secretary of State/Vice Minister for Foreign
Affairs level. Our two countries remain committed to supporting
Ukraine’s right to self-defense and its long-term security and economic
recovery. The United States has contributed $74.6 billion in
humanitarian, development, military, and economic assistance to Ukraine,
and Japan has been providing continuous support to Ukraine, a commitment
of which adds up to $12.1 billion in total. We are also committed to
addressing the humanitarian crisis in Gaza. Japan has provided
approximately $107 million in support of the Palestinian people and the
United States has contributed $180 million in humanitarian assistance
for civilians in Gaza since October 7, 2023. Moreover, the United States
and Japan underscore the importance and urgency of the situation in
Haiti and reiterate our support to the mandate of the UN-authorized
Multinational Security Support (MSS) Mission to Haiti.

**Investing in the Indo-Pacific**:  The U.S. International Development
Finance Corporation (DFC) and the Japan Bank for International
Cooperation (JBIC) have renewed an MOU that enables greater
collaboration in financing projects in the Indo-Pacific and beyond.

The United States and Japan acknowledge the importance of improving the
Amata Kabua International Airport in the Republic of Marshall Island
(RMI) in support of sustaining RMI’s economy.

Building on the U.S.-Australia joint funding commitment for subsea
cables last October, the United States and Japan will collaborate with
like-minded partners to build trusted and more resilient networks and
intend to contribute funds to provide subsea cables in the Pacific
region, including $16 million towards subsea cable systems for Tuvalu,
which will connect it for the first time in history, as well as the
Federated States of Micronesia. In addition, Taiwan also plans to
provide funding to deliver connectivity to Tuvalu.

In southeast Asia, the United States has announced $5 million in new
funding to the Japan-U.S.-Mekong Power Partnership (JUMPP), which puts
the U.S. commitment to $35 million since JUMPP’s launch in 2019. The $5
million helps fulfill Vice President Harris’ announcement that she plans
to work with U.S. Congress to harness up to $20 million in new JUMPP
funding. The U.S. and Japan’s work in the Mekong region has supported
over 100 technical cooperation projects to expand cross-border power
trade and clean energy integration in Cambodia, Lao PDR, Thailand, and
Vietnam.

**Strengthening the International Financial Architecture**: The United
States and Japan intend to continue our collaboration to strengthen the
international financial architecture and support developing countries to
promote our shared values. This includes advancing the MDB Evolution
agenda, planned contributions that would enable more than $30 billion in
new lending headroom at the World Bank to support low- and middle-income
countries in addressing global challenges, securing ambitious
International Development Association and Asian Development Fund
replenishments, addressing debt vulnerabilities that are holding back
low- and middle-income countries’ growth potential and ability to invest
in critical areas like climate and development including through
advancing debt treatment through the G20 Common Framework and enhancing
debt transparency, and solidifying the International Monetary Fund (IMF)
as a quota-based institution at the center of the global financial
safety net.

**Deepening our Commitment to Nuclear Disarmament and Non-proliferation
and Peaceful Uses of Nuclear Energy:** President Biden commended Japan’s
safe, responsible, and science-based discharge of Advanced Liquid
Processing System (ALPS) treated water into the sea. The two leaders
welcomed that the U.S. Department of Energy and Japan’s MEXT have
removed all excess highly enriched uranium (HEU) from the Kyoto
University Critical Assembly and Japan Atomic Energy Agency’s Japan
Materials Testing Reactor Critical Assembly to the United States and a
new joint commitment to convert the Kindai University Teaching and
Research Reactor from HEU to low-enriched uranium fuel and to return its
HEU to the United States. The United States also joined the Japan-led
“Fissile Material Cut-Off Treaty (FMCT) Friends” effort to demonstrate
our shared commitment toward disarmament.

**Combatting Gender-Based Online Harassment and Abuse**: Recognizing the
importance of partnerships to combat technology-facilitated gender-based
violence, including the Global Partnership for Action on Gender-Based
Online Harassment and Abuse, the United States and Japan concur to
strengthen our work at the nexus of gender equality and digital
technology. These efforts underscore our commitments to advance our
shared values, including human rights and gender equality, and further
Women, Peace, and Security goals in an increasingly technology-dependent
world.

**Countering Foreign Information Manipulation:** The United States and
Japan are committed to working together and last year committed to the
joint U.S.-Japan Memorandum of Cooperation on Countering Foreign
Information Manipulation. The United States and Japan recognize that
foreign information manipulation poses a challenge to the Indo-Pacific
region and beyond and warrants enhanced bilateral and multilateral
cooperation.

**Partnership to Combat Commercial Spyware:** Japan has joined the Joint
Statement on Efforts to Counter the Proliferation and Misuse of
Commercial Spyware. The United States and Japan are committed to
implementing domestic controls and building the international coalition
to combat the misuse of such surveillance tools that pose a threat to
our mutual national security interests and that enable human rights
abuses.

**Countering the Growing Threat of Transnational Repression:** The
United States and Japan are committed to reinforcing our partnership on
countering transnational repression. To effectively address the rising
concern of transnational repression globally it will take a coordinated
multilateral response. 

**Bolstering Whole-of-Society Resilience**: The United States and Japan
welcome the National Research Institute for Earth Science and Disaster
Resilience, Japan’s MEXT, and NVIDIA’s efforts on joint research and
development on nation-scale resilience.

**Building Resilient and Responsible Seafood Supply Chains:** Our two
countries pledge to work together, as part of the efforts under the Task
Force on the Promotion of Human Rights and International Labor Standards
in Supply Chains, led by the U.S. Trade Representative and METI, to
explore ways to combat forced labor and advance responsible labor
practices in seafood supply chains. We also intend to build resilient
seafood supply chains through strengthened trade channels and increased
business opportunities.

**Strengthening Food Security and Sustainable Agriculture**: To enhance
existing food security efforts, the United States and Japan recently
launched the U.S.-Japan Dialogue on Sustainable Agriculture, and we plan
to continue joint research on reducing greenhouse gas emissions from
agricultural production. Together, we intend to promote new technologies
and climate-smart production practices to build sustainable and
resilient agriculture and food systems able to feed a growing global
population while conserving natural resources and mitigating climate
change. As an example, the United States and Japan intend to be founding
contributors to the Vision for Adapted Crops and Soils seed and soil
health research This research helps bolster diverse food production in
developing partner countries.

**PEOPLE-TO-PEOPLE TIES**

Our people-to-people ties serve as the bedrock of our Alliance. Civil
society has been one of the driving factors of our close relationship
over the past 170 years. Our two countries recognize the legacy of
Ambassador Mansfield, the longest-serving U.S. Ambassador to Japan and
his incredible contributions to the relationship through the Mansfield
Center and Mansfield Foundation.

The success of the Alliance is due to the bonds between our peoples, and
our two governments recognize the achievements of organizations and
programs, such as Fulbright Japan, the JET Programme, the Japan
Foundation, the KAKEHASHI Project, and the U.S.-Japan Council’s
TOMODACHI Initiative, Asia Kakehashi Project +(Plus), and their
contributions to the alliance. Our two countries celebrate the unique
and historic role of the 38 Japan-America Societies located throughout
the United States and 29 America-Japan Societies across Japan.

This year is the U.S.-Japan Tourism Year 2024, ahead of Japan hosting
the 2025 World Expo in Osaka. For the first time since 1988, the United
States approved federal funding to support the design, build, and
operation of the U.S. Pavilion at the World Expo.

Our two countries remain steadfast in our commitment to foster close
connections, and to promote close ties between current changemakers and
future generations of leaders.

**Boosting Educational Exchanges**: The United States and Japan announce
a new $12 million “Mineta Ambassadors Program (MAP)” education exchange
endowment administered by the U.S.-Japan Council for U.S. and Japanese
high school and university students who will “map” the future of the
relationship, with support from Apple, the BlackRock Foundation, Toshizo
Watanabe Foundation, and other founding donors. As a long-term
investment in U.S.-Japan relations, the endowment plans to increase
exchange opportunities in both directions. In this regard, we also
welcome Japan’s new initiative to expand scholarship for Japanese
students through the Japan Student Servicers Organization. We also
recognize the importance of educational cooperation among high schools
and universities between the two countries and enhance mid-to-long term
educational exchange, including those seeking degree certificates or
professional training and internship opportunities. The two governments
also announce the restart of STEM scholarships in Japan via the
Fulbright Program for the first time in 50 years, ensuring our flagship
education exchange program supports our most important economic security
priorities, and removal of the tuition cap for Japanese Fulbright
participants.

**Engaging the Next Generation of Leaders:** President Biden and Prime
Minister Kishida applaud the Japanese American National Museum’s new
Toshizo Watanabe Democracy Fellowship to promote global democracy and
strengthen U.S.-Japan ties. Beginning with an eight-person pilot program
this summer, this new Fellowship is designed to provide opportunities
for Japan’s future leaders to experience the United States, network with
Japanese leaders and others who seek to strengthen democracy and the
bilateral relationship and develop a cohort of up-and-coming
professionals who have to promise to become advocates for stable and
secure democracies in the years ahead.

We applaud the efforts of the U.S.-Japan Council’s exchange program of
local high school students and leadership/professionals for Maui
reconstruction. We also welcome Japan’s intention to broaden the scope
of the invitation program for Japanese American leaders to raise their
next generation.

**Promoting Exchanges among Professionals:** We welcomed the initiative
of the Japan Foundation that is promoting exchanges among professionals
and practitioners addressing common issues facing the Indo-Pacific
region, such as climate change and disaster management, and we look
forward to further development in the future. The two leaders also
welcomed the establishment of the Mansfield Professor of Japanese and
Indo-Pacific affairs.

**Women, Peace and Security (WPS): ** The Women, Peace and Security
(WPS) Parliamentarians’ Network Japan hosted U.S. WPS Caucus Member Rep.
Sydney Kamlager-Dove and Ambassador-at-Large for Global Women’s Issues
Geeta Rao Gupta on April 3-4 for a legislative exchange to reaffirm our
shared commitment to promote WPS globally.

**Increasing Exchange Opportunities for Japanese Language Specialists in
the United States:**  The United States and Japan signed a memorandum of
cooperation to expand exchange opportunities for Japanese language
specialists to observe U.S. institutions and methods in the United
States and share their specialized knowledge of Japanese language
education with U.S. colleagues. We also emphasize the value of in-person
learning for Japanese language in the U.S. and welcome efforts to expand
the Japanese Language Education Assistant Program (J-LEAP).

**Enhancing Cultural and Educational Interchange:** The United States
and Japan reaffirmed their confidence in the role of the U.S.-Japan
Conference on Cultural and Educational Interchange (CULCON) in further
enhancing people-to-people ties. The United States and Japan also
welcomed the inaugural U.S.-Japan High Level Policy Dialogue on
Education and instruct the respective departments and ministries to
accelerate the preparation of the second dialogue to examine and follow
up on the issues raised above. We also acknowledge the importance of
cultural exchanges including through promoting creative and cultural
content industries such as in music, movies, animation and manga.

**Strengthening Tourism Ties:**  To coincide with the U.S.-Japan Tourism
Year, Airbnb has announced it will commit $1 million to an International
Visitors Leadership Program to bring Japanese tourism professionals to
the United States to study best practices on rural tourism and support
local economies in each nation.

The United States also welcomes Japan’s intention to support the
National Park Service as it begins a multi-year rehabilitation project
around the Tidal Basin and West Potomac Park. Each year, millions of
visitors from around the United States and indeed the world visit the
National Mall for the Cherry Blossom Festival.  These cherry trees,
first gifted by the people of Japan to the United States in 1912, are an
enduring reminder of the close bonds of friendship between Americans and
Japanese.

**Expanding Global Entry Program**: The United States welcomes Japan’s
expected full membership this year in Customs and Border Protection’s
Global Entry program, a Trusted Traveler Program that allows expedited
clearance for pre-approved, low-risk travelers upon arrival at U.S.
airports. Japan’s full inclusion in Global Entry provides opportunity to
bolster our countries’ security while facilitating travel and commerce
between our nations.

**Strengthening the Resilience of Democracy**: President Biden and Prime
Minister Kishida welcomed the launch of the U.S.-Japan Strategic
Dialogue of Democratic Resilience and reaffirmed their commitment
through the second round of the Strategic Dialogue on March 8, 2024.

\###
