---
date: '2024-04-23'
modified_time: 2024-04-23 11:11:42-04:00
published_time: 2024-04-23 11:11:41-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/04/23/what-they-are-saying-president-biden-marks-earth-day-2024-with-historic-climate-action/
tags: statements-releases
title: "WHAT THEY ARE SAYING: President\_Biden Marks Earth Day 2024 with Historic\
  \ Climate\_Action"
---
 
Yesterday, to celebrate Earth Day 2024, President Biden traveled to
Prince William Forest Park in Triangle, VA, a national park system site
developed by FDR’s Civilian Conservation Corps, to announce $7 billion
in awards through EPA’s Solar for All program and unveil major steps to
advance the American Climate Corps. Building on the President’s climate,
clean energy, and environmental justice accomplishments, yesterday’s
announcements highlight the Administration’s unprecedented progress in
tackling the climate crisis, cutting costs for everyday Americans, and
creating good-paying jobs.

*Leaders from across the country praised today’s announcements. Here’s
what they are saying:*

**<u>Climate and Environmental Justice Leaders</u>**

**Ben Jealous, Executive Director, Sierra Club**: “The effects of the
climate crisis are not equal. And, until now, the opportunities to seize
the power and benefits of clean energy have not been equal. Today, the
Solar for All program’s specific focus on assisting low-income and
disadvantaged communities—areas historically underserved and subjected
to disproportionately dirtier air—will help reduce barriers to clean
energy and provide better health outcomes. The massive amount of
requests for funding that this program received—from red, blue, and
purple states alike—makes clear that there is huge demand for clean
energy nationwide and we must continue to fund and expand programs like
this to help achieve our climate goals. The Inflation Reduction Act is
working, and today’s announcement is proof of the progress we’re
making.”
\[[Statement](https://www.sierraclub.org/press-releases/2024/04/sierra-club-statement-president-biden-s-inflation-reduction-act-delivering-7),
04/22/2024\]

**Manish Bapna, President and CEO, Natural Resources Defense Council:**
“The benefits of solar and storage—lower energy bills, the ability to
keep your refrigerator running during power outages, asset ownership,
and more—have not been equally distributed in our country. This will
help to change that reality, expanding the opportunity for underserved
and disinvested communities across our country to realize the benefits
of solar and storage.”
\[[Statement](https://www.nrdc.org/press-releases/epa-issues-awards-solar-all-program),
04/22/2024\]

**Aru Shiney-Ajay, Executive Director, Sunrise Movement:** “Today is a
huge victory for our movement. Thousands of young people fighting for
their future made this possible. The American Climate Corps will hire
young people to better their communities and fight the climate crisis.
In the coming months, we’ll be bringing this program to thousands of
young people around the country and encouraging them to apply. The
federal government must lead the way to develop the workforce we need to
avert climate catastrophe and ensure young people from all walks of life
have green union jobs. The ACC is the beginning of a new era.”
\[Statement, 04/22/2024\]

**Raul Garcia, Vice President of Policy and Legislation, Earthjustice:**
“We applaud the Biden administration for these historic investments to
make solar accessible for an estimated 900,000 households in low-income
and disadvantaged communities across the country. The Solar for All
program will ensure those communities who have been overburdened by both
pollution and high energy costs for decades will not be left behind in
the rapid transition to a renewable energy future. The Inflation
Reduction Act is transforming communities across the country, and we
look forward to working with the Biden administration as this program is
implemented to build on this important progress.”
\[[Statement](https://earthjustice.org/press/2024/earthjustice-applauds-epas-solar-for-all-investments),
04/22/2024\]

**Lena Moffitt, Action Executive Director,** **Evergreen:** “This is
what bold, all-of-government climate action looks like. Climate voters
sent President Biden to the White House to use every tool in his
toolbelt to act on climate, and today he put on a master class. We could
not be more excited that the visionary American Climate Corps is up and
running—poised to connect 20,000 Americans to careers in climate
solutions and build the workforce we need to lead the global clean
energy economy. The innovative partnership with the North American Trade
Building Trades Unions non-profit partner TradesFutures will help
reinforce the on-ramp directly from the ACC into good paying union
careers, granting corps-members access to industry leading
apprenticeship readiness curriculum during their term of service. And we
are thrilled to see $7 billion in Solar for All grants headed to states,
innovative community organizations, and regional partnerships committed
to delivering residential and community solar in disadvantaged
communities. With today’s announcements, President Biden is continuing
to prove that investments in climate action are investments in our
communities, our workforce, and our future.”
\[[Statement](https://www.evergreenaction.com/press/evergreen-president-biden-meets-the-moment-for-workers-communities-climate),
04/22/2024\]

**Paula García, Senior Energy Analyst and Energy Justice Lead, Union of
Concerned Scientists:** “The Solar for All grant program is a key part
of the larger suite of clean energy investments advanced by President
Biden and Congress that will help the United States combat climate
change. Directing investments toward low-income and disadvantaged
communities is imperative to ensuring a just transition to clean energy.
If we don’t prioritize these populations, we risk exacerbating
historical injustices and piling additional burdens on those who have
been disproportionately affected by environmental harm. The announcement
of these grants is an important step forward. While UCS research has
shown clearly that more ambition is needed to meet climate goals, phase
out fossil fuels and advance environmental justice, the Solar for All
program will help create much needed momentum toward ensuring the many
benefits of a decarbonized economy, including public health protections,
reduced consumer energy costs and increased energy resilience, are
reaching everyone.”
\[[Statement](https://www.ucsusa.org/about/news/solar-all-mobilizes-capital-solar-projects-low-income-disadvantaged-communities),
04/22/2024\]

**Kate Wright, Executive Director, Climate Mayors:** “Clean energy is a
key component to addressing climate change and increasing community
resilience. The new Solar For All funding will support historically
overburdened communities with clean, affordable, and reliable energy to
power a healthier and more sustainable future for American families. We
are excited to support our mayors to meet this moment and put this
unprecedented funding into action.”
\[[Statement](https://www.c40.org/news/mayors-highlight-epa-7-billion-fund-invest-local-solar-investment/),
04/22/2024\]

**Eli Hopson, Executive Director and Chief Operating Officer, Coalition
for Green Capital:** “These awards are a big win for residents across
North and South Dakota and on Tribal lands in the region. We look
forward to meeting with local leaders, including Tribal leaders, to
collaborate in putting these dollars to work quickly and effectively and
in as many communities as possible. We also congratulate many of our
network partners who have received awards and will deliver for their
communities in states across the country.” 
\[[Statement](https://www.epa.gov/newsreleases/biden-harris-administration-announces-coalition-green-capital-receive-6245-million),
04/22/2024\]

**Billy Briscoe, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer,
Clean Energy Fund of Texas:** “We are grateful to the EPA for selecting
this multifaceted project as part of the Inflation Reduction Act and the
Solar For All program.  This partnership with minority serving
institutions of higher education will lower energy burden for low income
communities, jumpstart the green economy with the creation of jobs
through workforce training programs, and provide energy resiliency after
a climate event.”
\[[Statement](/cleanfundtx.org/news/clean-energy-fund-of-texas-and-bullard-center-selected-for-156-million-grant-from-epa-solar-for-all-competition/%3c),
04/22/2024\]

**Dr. Robert D. Bullard, Director of the Bullard Center for
Environmental and Climate Justice, Texas Southern University:** “This
funding will change the course of solar energy and equity across Texas
and the South.  Southern states bear a disproportionate burden of high
energy costs and climate pollution and now – with this funding – we can
turn the tide.”
\[[Statement](/cleanfundtx.org/news/clean-energy-fund-of-texas-and-bullard-center-selected-for-156-million-grant-from-epa-solar-for-all-competition/%3c),
04/22/2024\]

**Sara Chieffo, Vice President of Government Affairs, League of
Conservation Voters:** “President Biden has done more than any president
in history to deliver on tackling the climate crisis and pollution, and
we’re excited for the Biden-Harris administration’s continued commitment
on clean energy and environmental justice the President announced for
this year’s Earth Day. The historic Solar For All investments are a
major step towards lowering energy costs for families across the
country, helping combat the climate crisis at the scale and rate science
requires, and putting us on the path for a clean energy future for all
of our communities, especially in communities of color and those with
low wealth. The Biden-Harris administration is continuing to invest in
our youth and future generations with high-quality jobs to tackle the
climate crisis through the American Climate Corps. We’re all in with the
Biden-Harris administration to ensure we are doing everything we can to
protect our communities, our climate, and our future.”
\[[Statement](https://www.lcv.org/media-center/lcv-and-chispa-celebrate-biden-harris-administration-earth-day-announcements/),
04/22/2024\]

**Estefany Carrasco-González, Senior Director, Chispa:** “Today’s Solar
for All announcement is a welcome relief for our communities
disproportionately impacted by climate change and rising energy costs
for far too long. Chispa congratulates all the community-led winners who
will soon be in a stronger position to lead us into a healthier and
better energy future by expanding access to clean, local, affordable and
reliable energy for all.”
\[[Statement](https://www.lcv.org/media-center/lcv-and-chispa-celebrate-biden-harris-administration-earth-day-announcements/),
04/22/2024\]

**Duanne Andrade, Executive Director, Solar and Energy Loan Fund:**
“This is a tremendous opportunity for Florida, allowing us to finally
ensure that access to solar power becomes a reality for working class
families. For too long, the clean energy transition has left many
behind. We’re ready to harness the power of one of our state’s most
abundant resources- the sun-to create a cleaner, brighter, future for
Floridians.” \[[X
Post](https://twitter.com/SolarEnergyLoan/status/1782384657167761573),
04/22/2024\]

**Autumn Johnson, Executive Director, AriSEIA**: “We are delighted by
the recent announcement of the grant award for the Solar For All
program. This achievement is a testament to the collective efforts of
all stakeholders involved, and we are immensely proud of the positive
impact it will have on our communities. We want to specifically thank
the Governor’s Office of Resiliency for their leadership, Solar United
Neighbors, Arizona State University, Groundswell Capital, and the City
of Phoenix.” \[[Statement](https://www.ariseia.org/news), 04/22/2024\]

**Center for American Progress:** “Today,
[@EPA](https://twitter.com/EPA) announced the recipients of the $7B
Solar for All program, which will distribute solar panels to low-income
households. This is a historic investment to increase the accessibility
& affordability of clean energy to low-income communities. This program
is expected to benefit 900,000 households in low-income communities –
reducing carbon emissions and air pollution, and delivering over $350
million in annual savings for overburdened households.” \[[X
Thread](https://twitter.com/CAPenergypolicy), 04/22/2024\]

**Rocky Mountain Institute:** “Today @EPA announced award winners for
Solar for All. This means 60 new programs across the country dedicated
to increasing solar for low-income + disadvantaged communities. Solar
for All is expected to: Serve 900K households over 5 years; Increase
solar capacity for low-income households by a third; Drive cost savings
of over $350 million on utility bills for American families.” \[[X
Thread](https://twitter.com/RMIPolicy/status/1782488387879899409),
04/22/2024\]

**<u>Elected Officials</u>**

**Sen. Bernie Sanders (VT):** “The United States can and must lead the
world in transforming our energy systems away from fossil fuels. The
Solar for All program – that I successfully championed – will not only
combat the existential threat of climate change by making solar energy
available to working class families, it will also substantially lower
the electric bills of Americans and create thousands of good-paying
jobs. This is a win for the environment, a win for consumers, and a win
for the economy.”
\[[Statement](https://www.sanders.senate.gov/press-releases/news-sanders-joins-president-biden-to-announce-7-billion-for-solar-for-all/#:~:text=WASHINGTON%2C%20April%2022%20%E2%80%94%20Sen.,states%20with%20such%20a%20program.),
04/22/2024\]

**Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer (NY):** “Today on Earth Day,
Americans can start applying for the American Climate Corps. I’ve been
so proud to work hard for this program alongside youth activists across
this country. Happy Earth Day!” \[[X
Post](https://twitter.com/SenSchumer/status/1782428725583430110),
04/22/2024\]

**Sen. Dick Durbin (IL):** “I have long supported efforts to fight the
climate crisis, including creation of a Climate Corps, modeled after
FDR’s Civilian Conservation Corps to improve America’s public lands,
forests, & parks. Glad to see @POTUS announce that Americans can now
apply.” \[[X
Post](https://twitter.com/SenatorDurbin/status/1782498068249686086),
04/22/2024\]

**Sen. Tom Carper (DE), Chairman of Senate Environmental and Public
Works Committee:** “Every American should experience the benefits of our
clean energy future, no matter their zip code or income. The Greenhouse
Gas Reduction Fund is delivering $7 billion for residential and
community solar projects in communities with the greatest need across
our nation. I applaud the Biden Administration for deploying clean
energy to over 900,000 households and lowering energy costs, all while
creating good-paying jobs. That’s what I call a win-win-win!”
\[[Statement](https://www.epw.senate.gov/public/index.cfm/press-releases-democratic?ID=2A58CDA9-9D8A-40EF-BF65-F68106C5FE1E),
04/22/2024\]

**Sen. Jeff Merkley (OR):** “I’ve pushed for a Climate Corps to create
jobs while protecting our health, planet, and future—so it’s wonderful
to see @POTUS marking Earth Day this year with major investments in both
the American Climate Corps and @EPA’s Solar for All program! We need
bold action on climate.” \[[X
Post](https://twitter.com/SenJeffMerkley/status/1782449606221066298),
04/22/2024\]

**Sen. Alex Padilla (CA):** “California has long been a national leader
in solar power production and storage, but for too long, the benefits of
residential solar have been limited to high-income households and new
developments. This significant investment in California’s Solar for All
project will slash energy costs for low-income communities, create
good-paying jobs, and build toward California and the nation’s ambitious
renewable energy goals.”
\[[Statement](https://www.padilla.senate.gov/newsroom/press-releases/padilla-secures-nearly-250-million-for-california-residential-solar-projects-in-low-income-communities/),
04/22/2024\]

**House Minority Leader Hakeem Jeffries (NY-08):** “Because of the
leadership of President Biden we have enacted the largest effort to
combat the climate crisis in the history of the world. It’s working.
There is no Planet B.” [\[X
Post](https://twitter.com/RepJeffries/status/1782364547480772815),
04/22/2024\]

**Rep. Pramila Jayapal (WA-07):** “Thrilled to see WA getting more than
$156 million to expand solar energy programs across our state! The
Inflation Reduction Act, which I proudly helped pass, continues to
deliver federal funds for clean energy infrastructure across America.”
[\[X Post](https://twitter.com/RepJayapal/status/1782504329972203520),
04/22/2024\]

**Rep. Richard Neal (MA-01):** “On this \#EarthDay2024, we celebrate
@POTUS announcing $7B in grant awards through Solar for All, including
$156M for @MassDOER. Thanks to the Inflation Reduction Act, this program
will lower energy costs & reduce pollution in underserved communities.”
\[[X
Post](https://twitter.com/RepRichardNeal/status/1782446242754154635),
04/22/2024\]

**Rep. Gerry Connolly (VA-11):** “From the largest-ever investment in
climate and clean energy to bold actions to slash emissions,
@HouseDemocrats & @POTUS are getting it done. I’m excited to celebrate
this progress on \#EarthDay as we renew the fight for our climate and
communities!” \[[X
Post](https://twitter.com/GerryConnolly/status/1782405033746686312),
04/22/2024\]

**Rep. Dutch Ruppersberger (MD-02):** “Happy Earth Day! Today we
celebrate w/ @MDCleanEnergy who was awarded over $62 mil in @EPA Solar
for All Funding, made possible by the Inflation Reduction Act, of which
I’m a strong supporter. This $$ will allow MCEC to deliver solar energy
to homes in disadvantaged communities.” \[[X
Post](https://twitter.com/Call_Me_Dutch/status/1782429659113693625),
4/22/2024\]

**Rep. Gwen Moore (WI-04):** “President Biden is taking historic actions
to mobilize the next generation of climate leaders. The American Climate
Corps is listing 2,000 jobs across 36 states today — and that’s just the
beginning! Exciting news! Thanks to Biden and Democrats’ policies, the
EPA is unleashing $7B for low-income solar projects, aiming to lower
energy costs and reduce pollution in underserved communities across the
nation.” \[[X
Thread](https://twitter.com/RepGwenMoore/status/1782415155030003973),
04/22/2024\]

**Rep. Brittany Pettersen (CO-07):** “Today is Earth Day! To celebrate,
[@POTUS](https://twitter.com/POTUS) just announced $7 Billion Solar for
All grants to deliver residential solar. As the Representative of the
most naturally beautiful congressional district in the country, I will
always fight for policies that protect our planet!” \[[X
Post](https://twitter.com/RepPettersen/status/1782493397720187120),
04/22/2024\]

**Rep. Robin Kelly (IL-02):** “Congratulations to @EPA’s 60 Solar for
All selectees!  Funded by $7 billion in Greenhouse Gas Reduction Fund
grants, they will deliver solar energy to nearly a million homes in
low-income and disadvantaged communities.” \[[X
Post](https://twitter.com/RepRobinKelly/status/1782484523487232071),
04/22/2024\]

**Rep. Deborah Ross (NC-02):** “Exciting news!
[@EPA](https://twitter.com/EPA) announced $7 billion in grants for
affordable, resilient solar energy made possible by the Inflation
Reduction Act. The Solar for All program will help ensure all
communities have equitable access to residential rooftop and community
solar power.” \[[X
Post](https://twitter.com/RepDeborahRoss/status/1782506751167770906),
04/22/2024\]

**Rep. Melanie Stansbury (NM-01):** “I am deeply proud to have helped
cosponsor and champion this legislation to create our nation’s first
Climate Corps! Let’s do this!” \[[X
Post](https://twitter.com/Rep_Stansbury/status/1782513995632505176),
04/22/2024\]

**Rep. Nydia Velaquez (NY-07):** “This is wonderful Earth Day news!
Americans can now apply to join the American Climate Corps.
[http://ClimateCorps.gov](https://t.co/YSRyqfDWbS) already has nearly 2K
postings in 36 states, DC, and PR. This program will help fight the
climate crisis by mobilizing the next generation of climate leaders!”
\[[X
Post](https://twitter.com/NydiaVelazquez/status/1782512192824193035),
04/22/2024\]

**Gov. Michelle Lujan Grisham (NM):** “New Mexico was awarded $156M from
@EPA’s Solar for All program—an unprecedented investment in clean,
affordable renewable energy for low-income communities, benefitting all
New Mexicans. \#SolarForAll.” \[[X
Post](https://twitter.com/GovMLG/status/1782470681994682719),
04/22/2024\]

**Gov. Phil Scott (VT)**: “Today, on Earth Day, the EPA has announced it
accepted our Department’s application for the Solar for All Program.
Vermont will receive over $62 million. This funding will be a huge boost
for our state as we transition to clean, renewable energy.” \[[X
Post](https://twitter.com/GovPhilScott/status/1782495319311147061),
04/22/2024\]

**State Sen. Jeremy McPike (VA):** “It was great to join
[@potus](https://twitter.com/POTUS) at Prince William Forest Park today
to celebrate
[\#EarthDay](https://twitter.com/hashtag/EarthDay?src=hashtag_click) and
announce the new American Climate Corps initiative! $7 billion in grants
through the Solar for All program will expand access to affordable solar
energy right here in Virginia.” \[[X
Post](https://twitter.com/JeremyMcPike/status/1782516878151131394),
04/22/2024\]

**Commissioner Lesley Briones, Precinct 4, Harris County, Texas**: “The
Solar for All grant funding is a generational opportunity for Harris
County to take another bold step forward as the global leader of the
energy transition. The $249.7 million will give us the ability to
aggregate electricity on behalf of residents and change the way we
deliver power to their homes. I am grateful to the Biden-Harris
Administration for investing in large-scale, transformational change
that will bring high-paying union jobs, affordable and reliable
electricity, decreased dependence on ERCOT, and resilience in the face
of climate change. By expanding access to rooftop and community solar,
we will assist families facing high-energy costs and help keep Harris
County the epicenter of the energy transition.” \[[X
Post](https://twitter.com/HCPrecinct4/status/1782376611314028938),
04/22/2024\]

**Commissioner Alisa Simmons, Precinct 2, Arlington, Texas:** “On this
Earth Day, I am thrilled to highlight the EPA’s announcement that the
Texas Solar for All Coalition, of which Tarrant County is a member, has
been awarded close to $250 million in federal money for clean energy
projects to benefit disadvantaged communities. The Solar for All program
is a small subset of the Biden Administration’s Inflation Reduction Act
legislation, which seeks to lower greenhouse gas emissions, improve air
quality, and drive wider societal access to the benefits of clean
energy..”
\[[Statement](https://twitter.com/CommALSimmons/status/1782499841194484039),
04/22/2024\]

**Mark Jeffreys, Cincinnati City Councilman:** “Big news: EPA just
announced Solar for All grants. OH received $156M for solar for
low-moderate income households.  In Cincinnati, this means 1,000-2,500
households will get solar effectively eliminating their utility bills.
This is a $7B announcement overall saving lower incomed Americans
$350M/year in utility bills and lowering emissions.” \[[X
Post](https://twitter.com/jeffreysms/status/1782399223406747888),
04/22/2024\]

**Senate Democrats:** “Big News: Because of the Inflation Reduction Act
that Democrats Delivered: This Earth Day, the @EPA is announcing its
selections for $7 billion in grant awards for the Solar for All
competition.” \[[X
Post](https://twitter.com/SenateDems/status/1782465361197076878),
04/22/2024\]

**Energy and Commerce Democrats:** “President Biden announces $7 billion
in Solar for All Grants that will deliver solar power to over 900,000
low-income households nationwide. The funding is made possible thanks to
the Inflation Reduction Act that Democrats delivered last Congress.
Solar for All is going to save these households about $400 a year on
their electricity bills while also creating more than 200,000 jobs and
reducing carbon pollution. A big win this Earth Day that will save
Americans’ money, grow our economy, and combat the climate crisis.” \[[X
Thread](https://twitter.com/EnergyCommerce/status/1782422074872492371),
04/22/2024\]

*\###*
