---
date: '2024-04-25'
modified_time: 2024-04-25 16:15:21-04:00
published_time: 2024-04-25 16:15:20-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/04/25/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-celebrates-second-chance-month-announcing-new-actions-to-strengthen-public-safety-improve-rehabilitation-in-jails-and-prisons-and-support-successful-reentry/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Celebrates Second Chance Month\
  \ Announcing New Actions to Strengthen Public Safety, Improve Rehabilitation in\
  \ Jails and Prisons, and Support Successful\_Reentry"
---
 
America was founded on the promise of new beginnings. Yet, for people
returning home to their communities from jail or prison, obstacles often
stand in the way of turning this promise into a reality.  Having a
criminal record can make it hard to secure a steady job, safe housing,
affordable health care, or quality education — all important to building
a good life.  More than 60 percent of formerly incarcerated individuals
are unemployed one year after being released, and formerly incarcerated
people are ten times more likely than the general population to be
homeless.  
  
These barriers matter to an enormous number of Americans: One in three
U.S. adults has been arrested by age 23, and over 70 million Americans
have a criminal history record. Forty percent of all children in the
United States have at least one parent with a criminal record.  Every
year, more than 650,000 people are released from State and Federal
prisons, many with limited resources to start their new lives. Elected
officials of both parties, faith leaders, civil rights advocates, and
law enforcement leaders agree that when the basic needs of those
returning to communities are met, we do not just empower formerly
incarcerated people — we prevent crime and make our communities safer.

Each April, the Biden-Harris Administration celebrates Second Chance
Month, recognizing the important role of individuals, communities, and
agencies across the country in supporting the safe and successful
reentry of people returning from jails and prisons each year. As the
Biden-Harris Administration opens new doors, it also slows the revolving
door, reducing the number of people returning to jail or prison once
they leave.

**The Biden-Harris Administration is announcing two actions this week:**

**Removing Barriers for Entrepreneurs.** The Small Business
Administration (SBA) provided more than $50 billion in loans to small
businesses across the country in Fiscal Year 2023. Today, the SBA
finalized a rule that will eliminate the bar on accessing SBA funds for
people on probation or parole. The rule also eliminates a deterrent to
seeking loans by eliminating standard questions about one’s criminal
background from SBA loan forms. Expanding access to entrepreneurship
facilitates successful reentry of formerly incarcerated individuals
while also creating economic growth that benefits the whole nation.
Under SBA programs, lenders will continue to conduct individualized
reviews that address fraud risks and assess the creditworthiness of
borrowers.

**Remedying Unjust Sentences.** Yesterday, President Biden again used
his constitutional authority to uphold the values of redemption,
rehabilitation, and fairness by issuing 11 pardons and 5 commutations
for individuals convicted of non-violent drug offenses who have
demonstrated a commitment to rehabilitation. The President has exercised
his clemency power more than any recent predecessor at this point in
their presidency with 122 commutations and 20 pardons to date. The
Biden-Harris Administration will continue to review clemency petitions
and deliver reforms that advance equal justice, address racial
disparities, strengthen public safety, and enhance the wellbeing of all
Americans.  
  
**These actions build on extensive actions from Day One through 2024,
including:**  
  
**Connecting Formerly Incarcerated Individuals to Good Jobs: **As part
of the Administration’s Good Jobs Initiative, competitive grant programs
providing hundreds of billions of dollars now offer competitive
preferences for grantees to provide high-quality jobs for qualified
workers who face systemic barriers to employment, including those with
criminal history records. By July 2024, the Department of Labor (DOL)
will also award nearly $40 million in grants through its Growth
Opportunities Program for paid work experiences, training, mentorship,
and other services specifically for incarcerated young people
transitioning into the workforce.  That effort is in addition to DOL’s
recent announcement of $52 million for re-entry services for individuals
leaving state or local prisons and jails.  
  
**Supporting Veterans. **To help fulfill the country’s sacred obligation
to care for America’s veterans, the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA)
has strengthened its Homeless and Justice-Involved Veteran Outreach
Program, helping to ensure that veterans who are or have been involved
in the criminal justice system learn about the services and benefits
available to them for successful reentry. VA also changed its policies
to require quarterly outreach to veterans incarcerated in federal and
state facilities. In fiscal year 2023, VA provided over 2,682 hours of
outreach dedicated to veterans who may have been involved with the
justice system. By mid-March of fiscal year 2024, the VA already
completed over 1,060 hours of outreach dedicated to such veterans.  
  
**Expanding Access to Government-Issued Identification. **Because people
often leave jail or prison without the state-issued identification that
is often needed to secure housing and employment, the Bureau of Prisons
(BOP) has successfully developed a new Release ID Card that provides
U.S. citizens leaving BOP custody a temporary form of official
identification. As of April 2024, 21 states allow U.S. citizens to use
their Release ID Card to help obtain state identification.  
  
**Addressing a Failed Approach to Marijuana**. Sending people to prison
for marijuana possession has upended too many lives for conduct that is
now legal in many states. Following his October 2022 pardon of prior
federal and D.C. offenses of simple possession of marijuana, in December
2023, the President issued a Proclamation that pardoned additional
offenses of simple possession and use of marijuana under federal and
D.C. law, as well certain violations under the Code of Federal
Regulations involving simple marijuana. These full, categorical pardons
lift barriers to housing, employment, and educational opportunities for
thousands of people.  
  
**Making Higher Education More Accessible and Affordable. **The Second
Chance Pell initiative provides need-based Pell Grants to people in
federal and state prisons to obtain high-quality postsecondary education
in prison and after release. As a result, in the past financial aid
year, more than 17,443 students enrolled in a postsecondary degree or
certification program through the initiative. The Department of
Education (ED) continues
to [expand](https://www.ed.gov/news/press-releases/us-department-education-announces-expansion-second-chance-pell-program-and-actions-help-incarcerated-individuals-resume-educational-journeys-and-reduce-recidivism) its
Second Chance Pell Initiative with the Prison Education Program. Last
year, 6,036 students obtained a postsecondary degree or certificate
through the initiative, and ED predicts that number to grow in the
coming years.  The Prison Education Program has the potential to reach
over 760,000 individuals who are incarcerated and eligible for a Pell
Grant. AmeriCorps has also made it easier for members and volunteers to
use the education awards they earn during national service to pay for
education and repay their student loans after being incarcerated.
Earlier this month, the Department of Education announced a new path for
student loan borrowers who are incarcerated to exit default through
consolidation, providing them access to improve their credit and better
repayment options than ever before. This provides incarcerated borrowers
an additional pathway out of default and will provide options for such
borrowers to lower their monthly payments and in some cases get loan
forgiveness.  For example, after consolidating their loans out of
default, borrowers can access the newest repayment plan – the Saving on
a Valuable Education (SAVE) Plan. The SAVE plan lowers monthly payments
to as little as $0 a month based on a borrower’s income and family
size.  
  
**Expanding Access to Health Care.** Last year, the Centers for Medicare
& Medicaid Services (CMS) announced a [new demonstration
opportunity ](https://www.cms.gov/newsroom/press-releases/hhs-releases-new-guidance-encourage-states-apply-new-medicaid-reentry-section-1115-demonstration)that
allows Medicaid coverage for select services, including substance abuse
disorder services, for certain incarcerated persons in the period
shortly before release from jail or prison. For Medicare, in November
2022, CMS issued a [final
rule](https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2022/11/03/2022-23407/medicare-program-implementing-certain-provisions-of-the-consolidated-appropriations-act-2021-and) establishing
a special enrollment period for formerly incarcerated individuals so
they can enroll up to 12 months following their release from a
correctional facility, enabling them to avoid potential gaps in coverage
or late enrollment penalties. Earlier this month, the Department of
Health and Human Services also announced the availability of $51 million
for the first-ever funding opportunity for health centers to implement
innovative approaches to support transitions in care for people leaving
incarceration. Health centers can provide health services to
incarcerated individuals who are expected to be or are scheduled for
release within 90 days to help ensure they continue to receive care as
they move back to their communities.    
  
**Implementing the First Step Act of 2018**. The First Step Act of 2018
was the culmination of a bipartisan effort to improve rehabilitation for
people in federal custody, facilitate successful reentry, safely reduce
the size of the federal prison population, and strengthen public safety
and equal justice. Since 2021, BOP has finalized and implemented several
changes to maximize the availability of good and earned time credits for
eligible people in federal custody, to expedite the calculation and
application of those credits, and to give people in custody the ability
to track their time credits. Between January 2022 and April 1, 2024, a
total of 31,925 individuals have been released from prison under the
First Step Act due to credits earned for good behavior.   
  
**Reducing the Use of Criminal History in Federal Jobs and National
Service. **In August 2023, the Office of Personnel Management (OPM)
issued rules that prohibit federal agencies from requesting an
applicant’s criminal history information in most circumstances before
the agency makes a conditional offer of employment; expanded the
positions covered by this “ban the box” policy; and established a
complaint process and accountability measures for hiring officials who
are alleged to violate it. AmeriCorps has limited the use of criminal
history checks to their intended purposes so that justice-involved
individuals who do not pose a danger to vulnerable populations have an
opportunity to give back to their communities through national service.

**Addressing Harmful and Unlawful Fines and Fees.** Last April,
DOJ [issued](https://www.justice.gov/opa/press-release/file/1580546/download) a
Dear Colleague Letter for state and local courts and juvenile justice
agencies on common court-imposed fines and fees practice.  The letter
cautions against those practices that may be unlawful, unfairly penalize
individuals who are unable to pay, or otherwise have a discriminatory
effect. Building on this letter, in November 2023,
DOJ [released](https://www.justice.gov/d9/2023-11/doj-access-to-justice-spotlight-fines-and-fees.pdf) a
report that highlights the most common and innovative approaches taking
place across the country to reduce reliance on criminal and civil fines
and fees. DOJ also launched a new initiative that provides training and
assistance to jurisdictions to address common barriers to creating a
more equitable justice system by rethinking the use of fines and fees.

**Reducing Recidivism Through Prison Programs. **Since 2021, the BOP has
added 19 new recidivism-reduction programs and expanded existing reentry
and treatment programs related to adjustment, recidivism reduction, and
psychological symptoms and distress for the BOP population.  In March
2021, 26,251 of 124,509 (21%) incarcerated persons had participated in
at least one such program. In March 2024, partly due to program
expansions and partly due to the end of COVID-19 restrictions, 48,160 of
127,367 incarcerated persons (38%) had participated in at least one
program. 

\###
