---
date: '2024-04-15'
modified_time: 2024-04-15 18:11:33-04:00
published_time: 2024-04-15 18:11:32-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/04/15/joint-statement-from-the-leaders-of-the-united-states-and-the-republic-of-iraq/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Joint Statement from the Leaders of the United\_States and the Republic of\_\
  Iraq"
---
 
Today, the President of the United States, Joseph R. Biden Jr., welcomed
the Prime Minister of the Republic of Iraq, Mohammed Shia’a Al-Sudani,
to the White House.  The two leaders reaffirmed their commitment to the
enduring strategic partnership between Iraq and the United States and
discussed their visions for comprehensive bilateral cooperation under
the 2008 U.S.-Iraq Strategic Framework Agreement.  The President and
Prime Minister agreed on the importance of working together to advance
regional stability and reinforce and respect Iraqi sovereignty,
stability, and security.

President Biden and Prime Minister Sudani affirmed that a diversified
and growing Iraqi economy, integrated with the region and the global
economic system, is the foundation for lasting stability in the region
and prosperity for the Iraqi people.  The two leaders exchanged views on
how political, economic, and security cooperation between the United
States and Iraq could advance shared goals, including the development of
a strong and stable Iraqi nation that promotes peace and progress
throughout the broader Middle East.

**Energy and Environment**

President Biden applauded Iraq’s progress towards energy
self-sufficiency, and the two leaders discussed Prime Minister Sudani’s
interest in future opportunities for cooperation to ensure Iraq becomes
self-sufficient by 2030, with help from U.S. companies.  President Biden
affirmed continued U.S. support for Iraq’s efforts to modernize its
energy sector, reduce methane emissions, improve public health, more
reliably provide electricity for the Iraqi people, and complete the
electrical grid connections with neighboring countries, including the
ongoing efforts to connect Iraq’s grid with Jordan and GCC countries. 
The two leaders discussed future plans to develop Iraq’s resources in a
manner that ensures all Iraqis benefit from their country’s natural
wealth, consistent with Iraq’s constitution. 

Prime Minister Sudani and President Biden affirmed the importance of
ensuring Iraqi oil can reach international markets and expressed their
desire to reopen the Iraq-Turkiye Pipeline. 

**Regional Integration and Political Cooperation**

President Biden reaffirmed U.S. support for Iraq in strengthening
relations with the international community and states of the region to
ensure security, stability, and enhanced prosperity for its peoples. 
President Biden pledged continued U.S. support for greater economic
integration of Iraq with the Middle East region. 

President Biden and Prime Minister Sudani discussed their shared view
that the Iraqi Kurdistan Region (IKR) is integral to Iraq’s overall
prosperity and stability.  In that vein, the President commended the
Prime Minister’s and Kurdistan Regional Government’s (KRG) efforts to
reach durable agreements that resolve longstanding challenges, including
the recent arrangement to pay two months of KRG civil servant salaries,
and encouraged continued progress.  The President also affirmed U.S.
support for strengthening democracy in Iraq, including free, fair, and
transparent regional elections in the IKR.

**Economy and Finance**

President Biden and Prime Minister Sudani discussed Iraq’s progressive
efforts to reform the financial and banking sector to connect Iraq to
the international economy and increase trade while shielding the Iraqi
people from the harmful impacts of corruption and money-laundering. 
Through 2023 and 2024, banks in Iraq have expanded their correspondent
relationships with international financial institutions to enable trade
financing, with the majority of trade finance now occurring through
these channels.  The two leaders affirmed the importance of these and
other measures to improve the investment climate in Iraq to attract
foreign capital and promote economic growth.  The United States and Iraq
commit to strengthen their cooperation to achieve greater transparency
and collaboration against money-laundering, financing terrorism, fraud,
corruption, and sanctionable activity that could undermine the integrity
of both countries’ financial systems.  The two sides also committed to
support the Central Bank of Iraq to fully wind down the wire auction
mechanism by the end of 2024 and transition to direct correspondent
relationships between Iraqi and international banks, a transformation
that will connect Iraqi people and businesses with the international
economy.

**The Lasting Defeat of ISIS**

President Biden and Prime Minister Sudani discussed their commitment to
a stable and secure Iraq.  They agreed that Iraq’s security forces must
be able to ensure that ISIS can never again reconstitute inside Iraq to
threaten the Iraqi people, the region, or the international community,
including the United States.  President Biden reiterated his belief that
a strong Iraq, capable of self-defense, is critical to regional
stability and committed to bolstering the capabilities of security
forces across all of Iraq to secure the country’s territory and people.

Nearly ten years after establishing the Global Coalition to Defeat ISIS,
the two leaders discussed the Coalition’s successes in both Iraq and
Syria, where all Iraqi security forces including in Kurdistan were
critical to the territorial defeat of ISIS.  Both leaders paid tribute
to the sacrifices made by Iraqi, United States, and other friendly
countries’ military personnel serving side-by-side as partners during
the historic campaign against ISIS, as well as the civilians killed by
ISIS, including the massacres at Camp Speicher, Mount Sinjar, and Hit.
 Prime Minister Sudani emphasized the national effort that was required
to defeat ISIS and discussed his affirmative agenda to continue
rebuilding Iraq and restore its position as an engine of stability and
growth for the broader Middle East.  President Biden noted that the
enduring defeat of ISIS would help ensure Iraq’s, the region’s, and the
world’s security in the future, as well as its ability to fulfill the
Iraqi people’s aspirations to develop economically, attract foreign
investment, and provide regional leadership.

**Enduring Bilateral Security Cooperation**

President Biden and Prime Minister Sudani also discussed the natural
evolution of the global D-ISIS Coalition in light of the significant
progress that has been made in ten years.  The two leaders expressed
their commitment to the ongoing Higher Military Commission (HMC) process
and its results, and the three working groups that will assess: the
continued threat from ISIS, operational and environmental requirements,
and bolstering Iraq’s security force capabilities.  The two leaders
affirmed they would review these factors to determine when and how the
mission of the Global Coalition in Iraq would end, and transition in an
orderly manner to enduring bilateral security partnerships, in
accordance with Iraq’s Constitution and the U.S.-Iraq Strategic
Framework Agreement.

The leaders further affirmed their intent to convene later this year the
U.S.-Iraq Joint Security Cooperation Dialogue (JSCD) for talks on the
future of the bilateral security partnership.

**Strategic and Enduring Partnership**

President Biden and Prime Minister Sudani renewed their commitment to
bilateral partnership for the benefit of their two nations and decided
to expand cooperation in all areas discussed in the Higher Coordinating
Committee (HCC) meetings co-chaired by the U.S. Secretary of State and
Iraqi Minister of Planning.  The two leaders affirmed their intent to
continue their consultations on a shared vision for comprehensive,
productive partnership to advance common goals.

\###
