---
date: '2024-04-10'
modified_time: 2024-04-09 17:44:56-04:00
published_time: 2024-04-10 05:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/04/10/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-takes-critical-action-to-protect-communities-from-pfas-pollution-in-drinking-water/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Takes Critical Action to Protect\
  \ Communities from PFAS Pollution in Drinking\_Water"
---
 
*EPA Announces First-Ever National Standard to Address PFAS in Drinking
Water, Delivers an Additional $1 Billion through President Biden’s
Investing in America Agenda to Combat PFAS Pollution*

President Biden believes every community has the right to clean, safe
drinking water, free of pollutants that harm people’s health and
wellbeing. That is why the President [launched a comprehensive action
plan](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/10/18/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-launches-plan-to-combat-pfas-pollution/)
and provided billions in funding to protect communities from toxic
“forever chemicals” that are linked to a range of severe health
problems, including cancers, liver and heart damage, and developmental
impacts in children. Found in drinking water, soil, air, and our food
supply, per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS) persist in the
environment for long periods of time, posing a serious health threat
across rural, suburban, and urban areas.

Today the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is **announcing the
first-ever national legally enforceable drinking water standard for
PFAS**, **which will** **protect 100 million people from PFAS
exposure**, **prevent tens of thousands of serious illnesses, and save
lives.** This action complements the Biden-Harris Administration’s
commitment to combatting PFAS pollution and delivering clean water.

President Biden has secured historic levels of funding to meet this new
standard. **Today,** **the Biden-Harris Administration is also
announcing an additional $1 billion through President Biden’s Investing
in America agenda to help every state and territory fund PFAS detection
and treatment systems to meet the new standard**. This funding is part
of the $9 billion in dedicated funding through the President’s
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law to address PFAS and other emerging
contaminants in drinking water – the largest-ever investment in tackling
PFAS pollution. An additional $12 billion in funding from the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law supports general drinking water investments,
including PFAS treatment. The investments are part of the [Justice40
Initiative](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/environmentaljustice/justice40/),
which aims to ensure that 40 percent of the overall benefits of certain
federal investments flow to disadvantaged communities.

These actions will help tackle PFAS pollution that has devastated
communities like Oakdale, outside of St. Paul, Minnesota, where decades
of PFAS-containing waste dumped by a chemical plant has contaminated the
community’s drinking water. In this area, cancer was found to be a far
more likely cause of death in children than in neighboring areas. The
funding announced today will build on funding from the President’s
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law that is already helping communities
address PFAS contamination, including a $33 million award for Tucson,
Arizona to treat its PFAS-contaminated drinking water wells.

This funding also builds on [President Biden’s action
plan](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/10/18/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-launches-plan-to-combat-pfas-pollution/) to
[address PFAS
pollution](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/03/14/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-takes-new-action-to-protect-communities-from-pfas-pollution/),
safeguard public health, and advance environmental justice – all while
advancing the [Biden Cancer
Moonshot](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/cancermoonshot/progress-updates/fact-sheets/)
goal of cutting the cancer death rate by at least half by 2047 and
preventing cancer before it starts by protecting communities from known
risks associated with PFAS exposure.

As the first-ever Safe Drinking Water Act standard for PFAS – and the
first for any new contaminants since 1996 – this rule sets health
safeguards and will require public water systems to monitor and reduce
the levels of PFAS in our nation’s drinking water, and notify the public
of any exceedances of those levels. The rule sets drinking water limits
for five individual PFAS, including the most frequently found PFOA and
PFOS. Because PFAS can often be found together in mixtures, EPA is also
setting a limit for any combination of four PFAS, including GenX
Chemicals. This standard will reduce PFAS exposure in our drinking water
to the lowest levels that are feasible for effective nationwide
implementation.

Today’s announcements advance President Biden’s broader commitment to
deliver clean water for every American. The President’s Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law invests over $50 billion to upgrade water
infrastructure – the largest investment in clean water in American
history. This includes a historic $15 billion to replace toxic lead
pipes and protect children from brain damage, as part of President
Biden’s goal of replacing every lead pipe in the country within a
decade.

**<u>Recent Federal Actions to Protect Communities from PFAS</u>**

Under President Biden’s leadership, nearly two dozen federal agencies
and offices have made [systematic and substantive
progress](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/03/CEQ-PFAS-Report-March-2023.pdf)
to safeguard public health and protect the environment from PFAS in
drinking water and beyond. This work is coordinated by the White House
Council on Environmental Quality, which leads the Interagency Policy
Committee on PFAS. Other new actions the Biden-Harris Administration has
advanced to combat PFAS pollution over the past year include:

**Protecting Firefighters from PFAS**: The Biden-Harris Administration
is committed to protecting firefighters from the harmful effects of PFAS
contained in fire suppressing agents and firefighter gear. The
Department of Defense is offering PFAS blood tests to military
firefighters. The Federal Emergency Management Agency’s [U.S. Fire
Administration](https://www.usfa.fema.gov/) is working to reduce PFAS
exposure and promoting access to early cancer screenings and
participation in the [National Firefighter Registry for
Cancer](https://www.cdc.gov/niosh/firefighters/registry.html) led by the
National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health as part of
President Biden’s mission to end cancer as we know it.

**Reducing PFAS in Fire Suppressants:** The Department of Defense (DoD)
qualified three fluorine-free foams to [replace fluorinated Aqueous Film
Forming
Foam](https://www.acq.osd.mil/eie/eer/ecc/pfas/tf/index.html#tf1) for
shore-based firefighting activities at military installations, which the
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) has authorized for civilian
airports. The FAA is assisting airports to [transition to these new
foams](https://www.faa.gov/airports/airport_safety/aircraft_rescue_fire_fighting/f3_transition),
and funding foam testing systems for airports that prevent environmental
discharge. These changes will reduce the release of PFAS in the
environment and protect the health of firefighters and local
communities.

**Supporting Healthcare Providers:** The Agency for Toxic Substances and
Disease Registry at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
recently released the [*PFAS: Information for
Clinicians*](https://www.atsdr.cdc.gov/pfas/resources/pfas-information-for-clinicians.html)
resource guide. This information gives clinicians up-to-date resources
and information they need to help patients with questions and concerns
about PFAS exposure and health effects.

**Phasing Out PFAS in Food Packaging:** The Food and Drug Administration
(FDA) announced the completion of the voluntary market phase-out of PFAS
used on paper and paperboard food packaging, [eliminating the primary
source of dietary exposure to
PFAS](https://www.fda.gov/food/cfsan-constituent-updates/fda-announces-pfas-used-grease-proofing-agents-food-packaging-no-longer-being-sold-us).
FDA can now also [test for 30 PFAS in a variety of
foods](https://www.fda.gov/food/process-contaminants-food/testing-food-pfas-and-assessing-dietary-exposure)
to further protect people from dietary PFAS exposure.

**Testing for and Cleaning Up PFAS Pollution:** EPA [continues to take
key actions to address
PFAS](https://www.epa.gov/pfas/pfas-strategic-roadmap-epas-commitments-action-2021-2024).
For example, EPA is [gathering data on 29
PFAS](https://www.epa.gov/dwucmr/fifth-unregulated-contaminant-monitoring-rule-data-finder)
in the nation’s drinking water systems has collaborated with [DoD to
develop a method to test for 40
PFAS](https://www.epa.gov/water-research/pfas-analytical-methods-development-and-sampling-research)
in various media including biosolids, groundwater, and fish tissue. EPA
also [updated its interim PFAS disposal and destruction
guidance](https://www.epa.gov/newsreleases/epa-releases-updated-interim-guidance-destroying-and-disposing-certain-pfas-and-pfas)
and has released a new method to [test for 30 volatile
fluorine-containing
compounds](https://www.epa.gov/system/files/documents/2024-01/otm-50-release-1_0.pdf)
in air including potential products of incomplete combustion of PFAS.
DoD recently identified [40
installations](https://www.defense.gov/News/Releases/Release/Article/3668054/dod-identifies-additional-locations-for-interim-pfas-cleanup-actions/)
where interim cleanup actions to prevent further PFAS migration are
underway or will start in FY2024. These actions will address PFAS in
groundwater to protect public health and the environment.  

**Reducing PFAS in Federal Procurement:** EPA and the U.S. General
Services Administration
[announced](https://www.epa.gov/newsreleases/biden-harris-administration-takes-action-cut-pfas-us-government-custodial-contracts)
this week that custodial contracts for federal buildings will now only
use cleaning products certified to ecolabels such as EPA’s [Safer
Choice](https://www.epa.gov/saferchoice/learn-about-safer-choice-label)
and certain [Green Seal](https://greenseal.org/splash/) standards,
thereby avoiding products that contain intentionally added PFAS. This
shift will protect the environment, federal custodial workers, other
federal employees, and those visiting government buildings.

\###
