---
date: '2024-04-08'
modified_time: 2024-04-08 10:35:47-04:00
published_time: 2024-04-08 10:35:46-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/04/08/readout-of-latest-industry-stakeholder-engagements-on-the-port-of-baltimore/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of Latest Industry Stakeholder Engagements on the Port of\_Baltimore"
---
 
Last week, the National Economic Council (NEC) convened stakeholders
across the auto, energy, chemical, and industrial sectors to continue
the Biden-Harris Administration’s efforts to support affected industries
and mitigate supply chain impacts stemming from the collapse of the
Francis Scott Key Bridge and the partial closure of the Port of
Baltimore.

Representatives from the White House, Department of Commerce, Department
of Energy, and Department of Transportation provided updates on the
situation, including ongoing efforts to remove wreckage and reopen the
Port as soon as possible. (The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers has now
[shared](https://www.usace.army.mil/Media/News-Releases/News-Release-Article-View/Article/3731723/us-army-corps-of-engineers-develops-tentative-timeline-to-reopen-fort-mchenry-c/)
a tentative timeline for restoring access, and several large automobile
importers have
[committed](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/04/05/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-actions-following-the-francis-scott-key-bridge-collapse/)
to take steps to try to return key cargo operations to the Port of
Baltimore once it reopens.) The representatives underscored federal,
state, and local governments’ continued efforts to reach out to impacted
stakeholders, provide economic support to displaced workers and affected
small businesses, monitor capacity at alternative ports, and coordinate
timely, all-of-government responses to supply chain disruptions.
Stakeholders from the auto, energy, chemical, and industrial sectors
spoke with Federal representatives and offered suggestions for
addressing specific concerns.

These convenings followed two stakeholder [listening
session](https://www.transportation.gov/briefing-room/readout-secretary-buttigiegs-meeting-supply-chain-disruptions-port-baltimore)s
held the prior week,
[one](https://www.transportation.gov/briefing-room/readout-secretary-buttigiegs-meeting-supply-chain-disruptions-port-baltimore) led
by Secretary Buttigieg with ports, labor groups, and industry
partners focused on navigating temporary shipping and transportation
diversions, and
[another](https://www.usda.gov/media/press-releases/2024/03/29/readout-meeting-agricultural-stakeholders-port-baltimore-and)
led by the Department of Agriculture with [federal, state, agricultural,
and food industry
stakeholders](https://www.usda.gov/media/press-releases/2024/03/29/readout-meeting-agricultural-stakeholders-port-baltimore-and)
to assess potential short-term impacts to the agriculture and food
sectors.

Auto industry stakeholders reported minimal impacts to operations,
largely attributed to successful diversion of their cargo to other
ports.  Auto sector representatives emphasized the importance of
monitoring capacity at alternative East Coast ports, increasing trucking
capacity to facilitate moving vehicles back to the Baltimore area in a
timely manner, and ensuring the port returns to full operational
capacity as soon as possible.

Representatives from the energy, chemical, and industrial sectors also
reported minimal supply chain impacts at this time. Aluminum industry
stakeholders stressed the importance of the Port of Baltimore to the
aluminum sector and asked for the Administration’s continued support
during the temporary disruption

The NEC reaffirmed the President’s commitment to “move heaven and earth”
to fully reopen the port as soon as possible and to support the people
of Baltimore. The NEC will continue to engage with stakeholders
experiencing economic impacts over the coming weeks and will work to
ameliorate supply chain impacts and coordinate all-of-government support
for impacted industries, workers, communities.

\###
