---
date: '2024-04-16'
modified_time: 2024-04-15 19:22:30-04:00
published_time: 2024-04-16 07:15:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/04/16/fact-sheet-biden-%e2%81%a0harris-administration-releases-strategy-to-strengthen-global-health-security/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Releases Strategy to Strengthen\
  \ Global Health\_Security"
---
 
Today, the White House launched the [*U.S. Global Health Security
Strategy*
(GHSS](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/04/Global-Health-Security-Strategy-2024-1.pdf))
to protect the health, lives, and economic well-being of the American
people and people throughout the world.  
  
President Biden came to office determined to guide our country through –
and ensure we emerged stronger from – the COVID-19 pandemic. The
pandemic profoundly affected every individual, community and country,
causing millions of deaths, significant societal disruptions, and
trillions of dollars in economic losses globally.  Since day one, the
President has directed his Administration to protect the American people
from future health threats, recognizing that a biological threat
anywhere can turn into a health emergency everywhere. Over the past
three years, the Biden-Harris Administration has actively advanced a
bold agenda to achieve the vision of a world free from pandemics and
other health security threats. While the United States has made notable
progress over the past three years, there is more work ahead.  
  
**THE NEW GLOBAL HEALTH SECURITY STRATEGY**  
The new Global Health Security Strategy articulates a
whole-of-government, science-based approach to strengthening global
health security.   
  
Building on progress achieved since 2019 and incorporating lessons from
the COVID-19 pandemic, the Global Health Security Strategy lays out a
path to deliver on the goals in the [*2022 National Biodefense Strategy
and Implementation
Plan*](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/10/National-Biodefense-Strategy-and-Implementation-Plan-Final.pdf)
and the bipartisan Global Health Security and International Pandemic
Prevention, Preparedness and Response Act of 2022, which was enacted as
part of the [*James M. Inhofe National Defense Authorization Act for
Fiscal Year
2023*](https://www.congress.gov/117/plaws/publ263/PLAW-117publ263.pdf).
­It places county-driven action, equity, and inclusion at its core to
ensure the world is better prepared to prevent and respond to health
emergencies, including pandemics. The Strategy also envisions using
United States leadership to drive global action toward shared goals,
including stronger investment and commitment by other countries.  
  
The 2024 U.S. Global Health Security Strategy sets out three goals to
guide the United States’ affirmative agenda to advance global health
security:

-   **Strengthen Global Health Security Capacities through Bilateral
    Partnerships.** The most effective way to mitigate the impact of
    health security threats is to prevent, detect and contain them at
    their source. The Strategy focuses on working with countries around
    the world to ensure they are better able to prevent, detect, and
    respond to global health security threats. We are announcing today
    that the United States has expanded our formal global health
    security partnerships from 19 countries to 50 countries.  Over the
    next five years, the United States will:
    -   Work with these 50 partners to build, further strengthen, and
        sustain a level of demonstrated capacity in at least five GHS
        areas;
    -   Promote country-led processes as essential to achieving
        sustainable progress toward the GHS goals;
    -   Incorporate gender-responsive and social inclusion
        considerations into GHS programming, to reduce public health
        risks and adverse health impacts on marginalized populations;
        and
    -   Track progress toward closing gaps in preparedness and response
        capacities, and share those results publicly.  

These will further accelerate country implementation of the
International Health Regulations (IHR) and contribute towards achieving
the G7 Pact for Pandemic Readiness Global Health Security Agenda (GHSA)
targets.

-   **Catalyze Political Commitment, Financing, and Leadership to
    Achieve Health Security. ** The United States works alongside
    partners to catalyze and sustain political leadership, commitment,
    and financing in health security at local, national, regional, and
    global levels. Over the next five years the United States will:
    -   Continue to drive efforts to strengthen global policies,
        including through negotiations on a Pandemic Accord and targeted
        amendments to the International Health Regulations (IHR);
    -   Support fit-for-purpose institutions that can drive innovation,
        offer reliable public health guidance, and implement a rapid
        response to global health emergencies;
    -   Further strengthen our efforts to [expand equitable access to
        medical
        countermeasures](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/03/29/fact-sheet-update-on-the-united-states-commitment-to-expanding-access-to-medicines-around-the-world-2/);
        and
    -   Accelerate commitments made by the G7 including achieving the
        milestones of the G7 Pact for Pandemic Readiness to provide
        support to assist at least 100 low- and middle-income countries
        in building the core capacities required in the IHR.

The United States will also continue to deliver on the commitment to
transform financing for global health security.  The COVID-19 response
highlighted limitations in the GHS financing ecosystem.  In a health
emergency, countries need to be able to quickly access financing to
fortify their health systems, procure medical countermeasures, and
launch an effective response.  The United States is the world’s leading
investor in health security, and it is a top priority of the United
States to collaborate with countries, regional and multilateral
partners, including public and private sector organizations, to identify
and strengthen solutions to enhance access to financing for pandemic
preparedness and response.  To overcome the cycle of crisis and
complacency in investing in health security capacity, the United States
led the way to establish the historic [Pandemic
Fund](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/06/30/statement-by-president-biden-on-pandemic-preparedness-prevention-and-response-fund-at-the-world-bank/)
in 2022, and we are dedicated to working with all partners to ensure the
Fund excels in its mission to support countries most in need. 
Simultaneously, the United States continues to support efforts to
transform international financial institutions, such as the World Bank,
and to clarify and strengthen the pandemic preparedness and response
efforts of multilateral development banks and development financing
institutions to better address crises, including pandemics.

-   **Increase Linkages Between Health Security and Complementary
    Programs to Maximize Impact.** The United States is committed to
    better maximizing linkages between global health security programs
    and other health, development and security programs. Building
    stronger relationships between these programs will lead to more
    sustainability, make better use of existing resources, and drive
    better outcomes. Over the next five years, the United States will:
    -   Better integrate and leverage global health programs – including
        PEPFAR, TB, PMI, and health system strengthening efforts
        including regulatory systems and MCM manufacture, procurement
        and delivery;
    -   Better integrate and leverage development programs, including
        humanitarian and disaster response; food security; water
        sanitation and hygiene; and community leadership;
    -   Further strengthen a One Health approach to GHS, including
        integrating infectious disease data from human, animal, plant
        and environment sectors; and
    -   Strengthen research networks, including for global clinical
        trials.

Collectively, these actions will make the United States, and the world,
safer from the risk posed by pandemics and other health security events.

\###
