---
date: '2024-04-05'
published_time: 2024-04-05 19:07:20-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/04/05/u-s-eu-joint-statement-of-the-trade-and-technology-council-3/
tags: statements-releases
title: "U.S-EU Joint Statement of the Trade and Technology\_Council"
---
 
Leuven, Belgium

I. **<span style="text-decoration: underline">Introduction</span>**

The sixth ministerial meeting of the Trade and Technology Council
(“TTC”) took place in Leuven, Belgium, on 4 and 5 April 2024. It was
co-chaired by European Commission Executive Vice President Margrethe
Vestager, European Commission Executive Vice President Valdis
Dombrovskis, United States Secretary of State Antony Blinken, United
States Secretary of Commerce Gina Raimondo, and United States Trade
Representative Katherine Tai, joined by European Commissioner Thierry
Breton, and hosted by the Belgian Presidency of the Council of the
European Union.

The meeting took place against the backdrop of significant geopolitical
developments and challenges, including Russia’s unprovoked and
unjustified war of aggression against Ukraine and the escalation of
violence in the Middle East, that have shaken the international
rules-based order to which we are jointly committed. The United States
and the European Union remain unwavering in our long-term political,
financial, humanitarian, and military support to Ukraine.

There has been a buildup of global economic pressure through extensive
non-market policies and practices. This accentuates excessive and
possibly high-risk dependencies of strategic supplies, tilts the level
playing field, and poses a threat to our economic security, our
prosperity, and the well-being of our firms, workers, and citizens.

The acceleration of the digital transformation creates unprecedented
opportunities for growth and innovation but also raises numerous risks
and challenges that call for accelerating our efforts to establish joint
leadership and continue robust coordination on our approaches for
creating rules of the road for emerging technologies, such as artificial
intelligence (AI), quantum technologies, and 6G wireless communication
systems. We aim to foster interoperability and support our common
democratic values and the protection of human rights, while also
promoting innovation. We are also dedicated to continuing to equip our
workforce with the skills necessary to meet the needs created by rapidly
changing technology, including AI.

The cooperation between the United States and the European Union
continues to be the bedrock for dealing with such global challenges, and
the TTC has played a vital role in shaping a forward-looking dialogue
and facilitating unprecedented coordination and quick responses to key
trade and technology related issues and developments, not least in the
context of Russia’s continued aggression against Ukraine. We therefore
reaffirm the importance of the TTC and will continue to refine and adapt
this forum to advance our shared objectives.

We have used the TTC to address global trade challenges, strengthen our
economic and trade ties, accelerate the transition to climate-neutral
economies, and boost our economic security. With the Transatlantic
Initiative on Sustainable Trade (TIST), the TTC is contributing to the
creation of a stronger, more sustainable, and more resilient
transatlantic marketplace and facilitating environmentally responsible
trade in goods and technologies. We have increased cooperation on
interoperability of digital trade tools as well as standardisation of
critical and emerging technologies to reduce the costs of trading across
the Atlantic. To boost our economic security, we continue to cooperate
through the TTC to diversify strategic supply chains, including solar
panels, semiconductors, and critical raw materials, and to reduce
vulnerabilities, including those caused by other countries’ non-market
policies and practices. We have also deepened our dialogue and
cooperation on export controls and investment screening.

Working with stakeholders, we continue to use the TTC to advance the
governance of critical and emerging technologies, such as artificial
intelligence, quantum technologies, semiconductors, biotechnology, and
online platforms, including by supporting the development of
rights-respecting international technical standards, codes of conduct,
principles, and guidance. In particular, we call upon online platforms
to ensure their services contribute to an environment that protects,
empowers, and respects their users and the general public. We are
working together to advance public interest research on online
platforms, including to address particular societal risks, such as
technology-facilitated gender-based violence. We will continue to combat
foreign information manipulation and interference and to protect human
rights defenders online, including in the context of elections.

We intend to continue our trade and technology cooperation as set out
below.

**II. <span style="text-decoration: underline">Key Outcomes of the Sixth
TTC Ministerial Meeting</span>**

**A. Advancing Transatlantic Leadership on Critical and Emerging
Technologies Artificial Intelligence**

The United States and the European Union reaffirm our commitment to a
risk-based approach to artificial intelligence (AI) and to advancing
safe, secure, and trustworthy AI technologies. The dedicated
coordination under the TTC continues to be instrumental to implementing
our respective policy approaches which aim to reap the potential
benefits of AI while protecting individuals and, society against its
potential risks, and upholding human rights.

Our exchanges confirm our joint understanding that transparency and risk
mitigation are key elements to ensure the safe, secure, and trustworthy
development and use of AI, and we will continue to coordinate our
contributions to multilateral initiatives such as the G7, the OECD, G20,
Council of Europe, and UN processes to advance the responsible
stewardship of AI. We encourage advanced AI developers in the United
States and Europe to further the application of the Hiroshima Process
International Code of Conduct for Organizations Developing Advanced AI
Systems which complements our respective governance and regulatory
systems.

With a view to ensuring continued and impactful cooperation on AI,
leaders from the European AI Office and the U.S. AI Safety Institute
have briefed one another on their respective approaches and mandates.
These institutions today committed to establishing a Dialogue to deepen
their collaboration, particularly to foster scientific information
exchange among their respective scientific entities and affiliates on
topics such as, benchmarks, potential risks, and future technological
trends.

This cooperation will contribute to making progress with the
implementation of the [Joint Roadmap on Evaluation and Measurement Tools
for Trustworthy AI and Risk
Management](https://digital-strategy.ec.europa.eu/en/library/ttc-joint-roadmap-trustworthy-ai-and-risk-management),
which is essential to minimize divergence as appropriate in our
respective emerging AI governance and regulatory systems, and to
cooperate on interoperable and international standards. Following
stakeholder consultations, we have further developed a list of key AI
terms with mutually accepted joint definitions and published an [updated
version](https://digital-strategy.ec.europa.eu/en/news-redirect/825041).

We are also united in our belief of the potential of AI to address some
of the world’s greatest challenges. We applaud the United Nations
General Assembly Plenary Resolution “Seizing the Opportunities of Safe,
Secure and Trustworthy Artificial Intelligence Systems for Sustainable
Development,” that has solidified a global consensus around the need to
manage the risks of AI while harnessing its benefits for sustainable
development and the protection and promotion of human rights.

We are advancing on the promise of AI for sustainable development in our
bilateral relationship through joint research cooperation as part of the
administrative arrangement on artificial intelligence and computing to
address global challenges for the public good. Working groups jointly
staffed by U.S. science agencies and European Commission departments and
agencies have achieved substantial progress by defining [critical
milestones for deliverables in the areas of extreme weather, energy,
emergency response, and
reconstruction](https://digital-strategy.ec.europa.eu/en/news-redirect/825042).
We are also making constructive progress in health and agriculture.

We will continue to explore opportunities with our partners in the
United Kingdom, Canada, and Germany in the AI for Development Donor
Partnership to accelerate and align our foreign assistance in Africa to
support educators, entrepreneurs, and ordinary citizens to harness the
promise of AI.

**Quantum**

The United States and the European Union established a Quantum Task
Force to address open questions on science and technology cooperation
between the United States and the European Union on quantum
technologies. Its primary objective is to bridge gaps in research and
development (R&D) between the United States and the European Union,
thereby harmonizing efforts in quantum technology advancements. This
includes the establishment of a shared understanding and approach to
technology readiness levels, development of unified benchmarks,
identification of critical components in quantum technology, and
advancement of international standards.

The task force continues work to address key questions that are
necessary to reach an agreement on launching joint actions for science
and technology cooperation in quantum, such as reciprocity in openness
of quantum research programs and in intellectual property rights
regimes.

*Post-Quantum Cryptography Coordination*

The United States and the European Union affirm the importance of the
rapid mobilization to secure our digital communication networks against
the threats posed by the potential for a future
cryptanalytically-relevant quantum computer. Our joint work in Post
Quantum Cryptography (PQC), feeding into the U.S-EU Cyber Dialogue,
enables U.S. and EU partners to share information to understand
activities in PQC standardization and in the transition to PQC.

**The Road to 6G**

The United States and the European Union share the belief that advanced
connectivity can  facilitate a more inclusive, sustainable, and secure
global economy. We concur on shared principles for the research and
development of 6G wireless communication systems, and we recognize that
by working together we can support the development of technologies and
global technical standards for tomorrow’s critical digital
infrastructure that reflect shared principles and values. We support
open, global, market-driven, and inclusive multi-stakeholder approaches
for the development of technical standards for secure and interoperable
telecommunications equipment and services. On the road to 6G, in a
geopolitical environment increasingly marked by tension and conflict,
the growing requirement for security and resilience of key enabling
communications technologies and critical infrastructure highlights the
need to rely on trusted suppliers, to prevent vulnerabilities and
dependencies, with potential downstream effects on the entire industrial
ecosystem.

We delivered a 6G outlook in May 2023. In addition, the two main
industry associations on each side of the Atlantic jointly developed a
[6G Industry
Roadmap](https://nextgalliance.org/wp-content/uploads/2024/01/EU-US-Aligned-6G-Roadmap-Joint-Paper.pdf)
in December 2023. The roadmap affirmed the commitment of the
stakeholders to collaborate on the development of 6G networks and
proposed a comprehensive set of critical strategic reflections and
recommendations from academia and industry. On 26 February 2024, ten
countries, including some EU Member States concluded a [joint statement
on
6G](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/02/26/joint-statement-endorsing-principles-for-6g-secure-open-and-resilient-by-design/).

These milestones have contributed to shaping the joint “[6G
vision](https://digital-strategy.ec.europa.eu/en/library/advancing-6g-vision-transatlantic-collaboration)”
that we are adopting today. This vision focuses on technology challenges
and research collaboration including on microelectronics; AI and cloud
solutions for 6G; security and resilience; affordability and
inclusiveness, sustainability and energy efficiency; openness and
interoperability; efficient radio spectrum usage; and the
standardisation process.

Having decided on this 6G vision, the United States and the European
Union will strengthen cooperation between their research and innovation
funding agencies, notably through an Administrative Arrangement signed
between the U.S. National Science Foundation (NSF) and the
Directorate‑General for Communications Networks, Content and Technology
(DG Connect) of the European Commission covering collaboration in the
field of 6G and Next Generation Internet technologies.

Considering the importance of developing a common vision to 6G and
cooperating in the global standardisation process through
standardisation organisations such as ETSI/3GPP, we also intend to
develop an outreach plan with likeminded partners to support and advance
the development of 6G networks.

**Semiconductors**

The coordination on our respective efforts to build resilient
semiconductor supply chains remains crucial to the secure supply of
semiconductors, which are indispensable inputs to an ever-growing range
of key industry sectors, and to ensure leadership in cutting-edge
technologies.

We have been cooperating fruitfully under two administrative
arrangements:

-   A joint early warning mechanism aimed at identifying (potential)
    supply chain disruptions and enabling early action to address their
    impacts, which has already proven useful in monitoring developments
    in the gallium and germanium markets; and
-   A transparency mechanism for reciprocal sharing of information about
    public support provided to the semiconductor sector.

We intend to extend the two administrative arrangements for a period of
three years to enable further coordination and to establish synergies
between our support for investments in the semiconductor sector taking
place under the EU Chips Act and the U.S. CHIPS Act.

The United States and the European Union share concerns about non-market
economic policies and practices that may lead to distortionary effects
or excessive dependencies for mature node (“legacy”) semiconductors. On
the side of the fifth TTC ministerial meeting, which took place on 30
January 2024 in Washington, D.C., we held a joint roundtable with
high-level industry representatives dedicated to legacy semiconductor
supply chains. Both the United States and the European Union are
committed to continuing to engage closely with industry on the issue. We
plan to convene further government-to-government discussions with
like-minded countries on this topic in the near future. In January 2024,
the United States launched an industry survey to assess the use of
legacy chips in supply chains that directly or indirectly support U.S.
national security and critical infrastructure. The European Union is
also gathering information on this issue. We intend to, as appropriate,
continue to collect and share non-confidential information and market
intelligence about non-market policies and practices, commit to consult
each other on planned actions, and may develop joint or cooperative
measures to address distortionary effects on the global supply chain for
legacy semiconductors.

We plan to continue working to identify research cooperation
opportunities on alternatives to the use of per- and polyfluorinated
substances (PFAS) in chips. For example, we plan to explore the use of
AI capacities and digital twins to accelerate the discovery of suitable
materials to replace PFAS in semiconductor manufacturing.

**Biotechnology Cooperation to Promote the Bioeconomy and Address Global
Challenges**

The bioeconomy is supported by the use of foundational and
widely-applicable tools and technologies (including emerging
biotechnologies), which have the potential to drive innovation to
address global challenges. .These tools and technologies also represent
an opportunity to begin developing a common international understanding
of the bioeconomy and future efforts to evaluate, measure, and grow the
global bioeconomy as a whole. A crucial component of this effort is
establishing a shared understanding of some of the risks and
vulnerabilities associated with the bioeconomy, including economic and
security considerations, alongside a simultaneous commitment to enabling
the safe, secure, sustainable, and responsible use of tools and
technologies for bioeconomic development.

We look forward to cooperating on shared research, development, and
innovation priorities through the U.S.-EU Joint Consultative Group that
will push bioeconomic development forward in ways that address the most
pressing global challenges we all face.

We acknowledge the significant promise and risks associated with the
integration of advanced biotechnology with other technological
disciplines such as AI, information technology, nanotechnology,
neurotechnology, chemistry, and medicine, which will drive innovation
and have significant implications for academia, industry, and economic
security. To address the potential risks associated with the convergence
of these technologies, we are committed to work toward mechanisms to
safeguard dual-use advanced biotechnology items and equipment.

**Transatlantic Cooperation on Standards for Critical and Emerging
Technologies and Clean Energy Transition**

The United States and the European Union share an interest in
recognizing mutually compatible technical standards as a way to expand
transatlantic approaches for the deployment of critical and emerging
technologies that reflect our shared values.

We plan to continue to exchange information on international
standardisation activities for critical and emerging technologies via
the “Strategic Standardisation Information (SSI)” mechanism, as
established at the second U.S-EU TTC ministerial meeting. Our deepened
cooperation enables us to cooperate on global standards. In order to
strengthen collaboration with the private sector, we organised a [joint
stakeholder
workshop](https://futurium.ec.europa.eu/en/EU-US-TTC/news/executive-summary-hybrid-stakeholder-event-transatlantic-collaboration-emerging-technology-standards)
in Washington D.C. on 17 November 2023, which identified relevant areas
for transatlantic collaboration.

Together with standards development organisations and stakeholders, we
have endeavoured to work towards mutually compatible standards and best
practices in areas of strategic interest with the objective of avoiding
unnecessarily burdensome technical trade barriers, without prejudice to
the specificities and needs of our respective legal systems.

Over the last two years, our cooperation has led to tangible outcomes.
We have facilitated commonly recognised international standards for the
rollout of megawatt charging systems for heavy-duty vehicle charging
points, and joint work of U.S. and EU standardisation bodies on plastics
recycling and additive manufacturing since the start of the TTC. Our
work continues to facilitate the development of mutually recognised and
compatible standards to enhance new opportunities for cooperation within
our respective standardisation systems.  

Following a successful round of government-to-government technical
exchanges, the European Commission and U.S. government released a
Digital Identity Mapping Exercise Report[Digital Identity Mapping
Exercise
Report](https://futurium.ec.europa.eu/en/EU-US-TTC/news/eu-us-ttc-digital-identity-mapping-exercise-report)
which provides the results of an initial mapping centred on the
definitions, assurance levels, and references to international standards
included across Revision 3 of the NIST Digital Identity Guidelines
([Special Publication 800-63, Revision
3](https://pages.nist.gov/800-63-3/sp800-63-3.html)) and European
Regulation [(EU) No
910/2014](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=uriserv:OJ.L_.2014.257.01.0073.01.ENG) on
electronic identification and trust services for electronic transactions
in the internal market. The next phase of this project will focus on
identifying potential use cases for transatlantic interoperability and
cooperation with a view toward enabling the cross-border use of digital
identities and wallets.

The United States and the European Union intend to continue to identify
emerging technology standards that are enablers of the clean energy
transition for transatlantic collaboration.  
  
**B. Promoting Sustainability and New Opportunities for Trade and
Investment **

**Transatlantic Initiative on Sustainable Trade **

The Transatlantic Initiative on Sustainable Trade (TIST) work programme,
which we launched at the fourth U.S-EU TTC ministerial meeting in May
2023, has advanced our cooperation on actions to accelerate the
transition to climate-neutral economies in the United States and the
European Union in a mutually beneficial way. The United States and the
European Union have been making progress on the different work strands
under the TIST work programme and will continue to advance this work.

**Building a Transatlantic Green Marketplace**

Building on our strong economic links to accelerate the green transition
while creating new business opportunities for our firms and good
employment opportunities for our citizens is a key objective of the
TIST.

On 30-31 January 2024, the United States and the European Union jointly
organised the “[Crafting the Transatlantic Green
Marketplace](https://futurium.ec.europa.eu/en/EU-US-TTC/news/transatlantic-initiative-sustainable-trade-tist-stakeholder-engagement-event-summary-report)”
event in Washington, D.C. The event brought together representatives
from the U.S. and EU business, civil society, and labor communities to
engage in a series of thematic stakeholder-led discussions that focused
on identifying opportunities for transatlantic collaboration to promote
the transition to a more sustainable and climate-neutral economy on both
sides of the Atlantic. The United States and the European Union thank
the participants for their time and input. We are currently analysing
the various proposals for cooperation received from the stakeholders to
assess their potential to be taken forward.

In addition, the United States and the European Union will continue
various efforts under the TIST umbrella, including exploring potential
avenues of cooperation on conformity assessment.

**Green Public Procurement**

The United States and the European Union underscore that, by achieving a
common understanding on green public procurement practices, we can
accelerate the uptake of more sustainable and greener solutions to
achieve our common environmental and climate goals.

To this end, we have issued a [Joint U.S.-EU Catalogue of Best Practices
on Green Public
Procurement](https://circabc.europa.eu/ui/group/09242a36-a438-40fd-a7af-fe32e36cbd0e/library/4ed7eb8e-690a-4347-975f-6e48e851365a/details?download=true).
It will contribute to advancing sustainability objectives by identifying
and promoting policy tools for accelerating the deployment of publicly
financed sustainability projects in the United States and the European
Union.

The Joint Catalogue presents a collection of policies, practices, and
actions used across all stages of the procurement process, from the
strategic planning to pre-procurement, procurement, and post-contract
award stage, and addresses all types of environmental and climate
challenges, such as reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, energy
efficiency or promoting circular economy approaches. It can serve as an
inspiration for policymakers and suppliers, as well as provide ideas for
the uptake of green solutions in public procurement globally.

The United States and the European Union will continue to work together
on how to use the Joint Catalogue and maximise its impact.

**Secure and Sustainable Supply Chains for the Clean Energy Transition**

The United States and the European Union reaffirm that secure and
sustainable transatlantic supply chains are key for a solid and
steadfast transition towards a net zero economy and will help reduce
excessive dependencies in strategic economic activities. We intend to
continue to cooperate on strategic supply chains, such as solar, to help
us increase secure supply of clean energy. The United States and the
European Union share common challenges in the solar sector and reaffirm
the importance of a dedicated workstream that explores ways to jointly
support our photovoltaic manufacturing capacity (including equipment)
and to diversify and de-risk this supply chain.

The United States and the European Union also continue efforts to
promote transparency and traceability to improve social standards and
environmental protections across supply chains that support the green
transition. In this context, we are planning a workshop with
stakeholders to present ongoing initiatives to promote innovative
solutions in the management of sustainable supply chains, including a
focused session on solar.

**U.S-EU Clean Energy Incentives Dialogue**

The United States and the European Union share a strong commitment to
tackling the climate crisis. We want to further the growth of the global
clean energy economy while establishing resilient, secure, and diverse
clean energy supply chains. By strengthening and expanding clean energy
industries and investing in future-oriented sectors, we generate jobs,
ignite a positive cycle of innovation, and decrease costs for clean
energy technologies.

Through the U.S-EU Clean Energy Incentives Dialogue, we continue to work
in a transparent and mutually reinforcing manner, to avoid zero-sum
competition, subsidy races and distortions in transatlantic trade and
investment flows that could arise from our respective policies and
incentives. In this way, we strive to maximise clean energy technology
deployment that creates jobs and does not lead to windfalls for private
interests. To further enhance transparency, we intend to share specific
information about our respective public incentive programs starting with
one sector as a pilot with the possibility to extend this to further
sectors in the future and will explore putting in place a reciprocal
mechanism for consultations.

We share concerns about a range of third country non-market policies and
practices. We have discussed thoseused by certain third countries to
attain a dominant global position in clean energy sectors, and recognise
the value of continuing to exchange information on such non-market
policies and practices. We will continue to explore policy tools and
possible coordinated action to address harm caused by these policies and
practices. including by fostering supply chain diversification, reducing
dependencies, and building resilience to economic coercion.

**Critical Minerals**

The United States and the European Union affirm their close
collaboration on diversifying global critical minerals supply chains. We
welcome the launch of the **Mineral Security Partnership (MSP) Forum**,
which we will co-chair. The MSP Forum will formalize and expand its
existing engagements with minerals producing countries, with a
particular focus on advancing and accelerating individual projects with
high environmental protections and social governance and labor standards
and promoting discussion of policies that contribute to diverse and
resilient supply chains.

Continuing our well-established cooperation on critical raw materials, a
workshop on “Developing the permanent magnets value chain” resulted in
valuable exchanges focussing on rare earth magnets. We plan to continue
these exchanges in the future.

To promote a green transition, enhance economic security, and strengthen
environmental protections and labor rights in international critical
minerals supply chains, the United States and the European Union are
advancing negotiations toward a Critical Minerals Agreement.

**Transatlantic E-Mobility Cooperation**

We welcome the successful completion of the *Electro-mobility and
Interoperability with Smart Grids* workstream with the publication of
the U.S-EU joint technical recommendations for “[Future Public
Demonstrations of Vehicle-Grid Integration (VGI)
Pilots](https://futurium.ec.europa.eu/en/EU-US-TTC/wg2/news/joint-eu-us-technical-recommendations-future-public-demonstrations-vehicle-grid-grid-integration)”.
Devised in consultation with industry experts and stakeholders, the
recommendations propose the development of best practices to prepare for
large-scale VGI demonstrations, educate potential customers, and
incorporate requisite customer-related factors in demonstration
programme designs, and aim at supporting communication and coordination
between the United States and the EU.

The recommendations complement the “[Transatlantic Technical
Recommendations for Government Funded Implementation of Electric Vehicle
Charging
Infrastructure](https://www.energy.gov/ia/articles/us-eu-trade-and-technology-council-factsheet-joint-report-electro-mobility-and),”
which were presented at the fourth TTC ministerial meeting in May 2023
in Luleå, Sweden.

Together, the two sets of recommendations can benefit companies and end
users, and transatlantic trade and investment, by supporting the
expansion of e-mobility as well as the realization of U.S. and EU clean
energy and de-carbonization commitments.

**Enhancing eInvoicing Interoperability between the United States and
the European Union**

As part of our efforts to increase the use of digital tools that enhance
trade, Electronic Invoicing (eInvoicing) has emerged as a transformative
tool in modern business, offering efficiency gains, cost savings, and
trade benefits. The continued cooperation and efforts towards compatible
eInvoicing between the United States and the European Union. offer a
spectrum of advantages, with the potential to significantly reshape
cross-market transactions and the dynamics of transatlantic trade. Even
though most of the eInvoicing technical specifications and profiles are
highly aligned, there are differences between our respective eInvoicing
systems. We intend to continue to cooperate and coordinate for greater
compatibility, particularly in terms of business and technical
interoperability, as outlined in the declaration annexed to this Joint
Statement.

**Trade and Labor in the Green Transition**

Today, the United States and the European Union held their third session
of the tripartite Transatlantic Trade and Labor Dialogue (TALD). This
session brought together TTC principals and senior representatives from
labor, business, and government from both sides of the Atlantic and
continued the joint transatlantic work with social partners on the
promotion of sustainable and responsible supply chains with strong
protections for labor rights. Building on the discussions during the
workshop on the “[Promotion of Good Quality Jobs for a Successful, Just
and Inclusive Green
Transition](https://futurium.ec.europa.eu/en/EU-US-TTC/posts/report-workshop-promotion-good-quality-jobs-successful-just-and-inclusive-green-economy-30-jan-24)”
on 30 January 2024, the TALD meeting provided the opportunity to dive
deeper and hear views from labor and business stakeholders on the topic
of the green transition, with specific focus on the green transition and
other challenges, and the future of TALD.

In addition, the United States and the European Union reaffirmed their
commitment to cooperate to eliminate forced labor from global supply
chains, as called upon in the labor and businesses stakeholders’ May
2023 joint recommendations, and they expressed the intention to continue
technical dialogue to exchange information, as well as share best
practices regarding the implementation of their forced labor policies,
including with regard to research and risk assessment.

**C. Trade, Security, and Economic Prosperity**

**Trade for Economic Security**

Strengthening our economic security is a fundamental pillar of the
transatlantic partnership. The TTC has helped provide a better
understanding of our respective approaches to economic security. We
intend to continue cooperation under the TTC to address common
challenges using relevant trade and technology tools, bilaterally and in
relevant fora, including the G7 and the World Trade Organization. We
reaffirm shared concerns about the challenges posed to our economic
security by, among other issues, economic coercion, the weaponization of
economic dependencies, and the use of non-market policies and practices
by third countries. We share the objective of continuing efforts to
de-risk and diversify our trade and investment relations, including by
reducing critical and excessive dependencies and strengthening the
resilience of strategic supply chains.

**Cooperation on Export Controls and Sanction-Related Export
Restrictions**

We continue to recognise the important role played by the TTC in
supporting the European Union, the United States, and other
international partners in their unprecedented cooperation on measures
against Russia and Belarus. Such cooperation has helped bring about a
continuous alignment of our regulations and a consistent application of
export restrictions targeting Russia and Belarus through, for example,
regular exchanges of information about authorisation and denial
decisions. It has also supported coordination to counter the
circumvention of our measures, such as through the creation and update
of a common list of high priority items (CHP) and our outreach to
industry.

We will continue to work to further align U.S. and EU priorities on
Russian export restrictions and coordinated international messaging on
those priorities to combat circumvention and improve efficiency and
effectiveness of domestic controls. As regards the implementation of
export restrictions against Russia, both sides welcome the setting up of
the platform for the exchange of licensing information and plan to
continue to exchange information on outreach activities, including to
third countries and industry.

Both sides have also decided to continue work on facilitating secure
high-technology trade and reducing administrative burdens in areas
covered by export controls by developing a common understanding of
respective rules and mapping out measures that would help streamline
this trade, while maintaining a well-functioning and effective export
control regime. For example, the United States has expanded licencing
exceptions to EU Member States.

We welcome the impulse the TTC has given to coordinated action by the
United States and the European Union in reaching out to other countries
and supporting them in strengthening their export controls, for example,
through the provision of secure software for the processing of licenses.

**Investment Screening**

We reiterate the importance of having effective foreign direct
investment (FDI) screening mechanisms in place aimed at addressing
national security risks in the United States and addressing threats to
security and public order in the European Union. We welcome the progress
in this regard and will continue to support the development and
implementation of these mechanisms, while promoting an open and
attractive investment environment.

We have carried out joint work to identify certain best practices on
foreign direct investment screening with the intention to eventually
bring these to the attention of screening authorities and stakeholders
more broadly. We will soon launch of a joint repository that will
provide additional resources to U.S. and EU Member State investment
screening professionals. We have deepened our cooperation on investment
screening through hosting a public stakeholder event and conducting
outreach to like-minded partners in the Western Balkans to support their
development of effective FDI screening mechanisms and intend to continue
such outreach in 2024.

We will continue our cooperation on investment screening through
technical exchanges, including on investment trends impacting security
risks related to specific sensitive technologies to provide a better
understanding of similarities and differences in approach.

**Outbound Investment Security**

We recognize the importance of investment, innovation, and open
economies. At the same time, we are also attentive to concerns regarding
potential security threats and risks to international peace and security
that may arise from certain outbound investments in a narrow set of
critical technologies. Against this background, the United States and
the European Union will continue to exchange information on the security
risks, risk analyses, and on our respective approaches around this
issue, and how to address this new challenge.

**Addressing Non-Market Policies and Practices**

The United States and the European Union remain concerned about the
persistent use of other countries’ non-market policies and practices and
the challenge they pose both to our workers and businesses and to other
third-country markets. We continue to exchange on the risks that
non-market policies and practices, including non-market excess capacity,
pose in certain sectors and to engage with partners where appropriate.

We engaged with other countries who share our concerns about China’s
non-market policies and practices in the medical devices sector, and
conveyed these concerns directly to China. The United States and the
European Union will continue to monitor developments in the medical
devices sector.

**D. Defending Human Rights and Values in a Changing Geopolitical
Digital Environment**

**Protecting Information Integrity in a Pivotal Year for Democratic
Resilience**

The United States and the European Union reiterate our unwavering
commitment to support democracies across the world. We are determined to
defend human rights and will continue to call out authoritarianism. In a
year marked by democratic elections around the world, we call upon all
actors including governments, industry, journalists, human rights
defenders, and civil society to protect and defend information integrity
both online and offline.

We express our strong support for the role of free, pluralistic, and
independent media in protecting information integrity. Independent media
should serve as a public watchdog and a key pillar of democracy, as well
as an important and dynamic part of our economy. We recognize its
indispensable role informing public opinion, fact-checking, and holding
those in power accountable.

We are witnessing rapid technological advancements which provide
opportunities to enhance information integrity but also create new
risks. The United States and the European Union share the concern that
malign use of AI applications, such as the creation of harmful
“deepfakes,” poses new risks, including to further the spread and
targeting of foreign information manipulation and interference (FIMI).
We call upon technology companies and online platforms to uphold
information integrity, including in the run-up to elections across the
world.

In the European Union, the Digital Services Act (DSA) requires
designated very large online platforms and search engines to assess and
mitigate societal risks emanating from their services, including
negative effects on civic discourse and electoral processes and
recommends specific measures, including on generative AI content.

** Cooperation on Online Platforms**

The United States and the European Union reaffirm their view that online
platforms should exercise greater responsibility in ensuring that their
services contribute to an online environment that protects, empowers,
and respects their users. We reiterate that online platforms should take
appropriate actions to address the impact of their services on the
mental health and development of children and youth.

The United States and the European Union also reaffirm that urgent
action is needed to address technology-facilitated gender-based
violence, which disproportionately impacts women and girls, who often
experience multiple and intersecting discriminations and oppressions. We
developed a set of [joint principles on combatting gender-based violence
on online
platforms](https://digital-strategy.ec.europa.eu/en/library/us-eu-trade-and-technology-council-ttc-joint-principles-combatting-gender-based-violence-digital)
that complement further the joint [high-level
principles](https://digital-strategy.ec.europa.eu/en/news-redirect/789081)
on the protection and empowerment of children and youth and facilitation
of data access from online platforms for independent research, which
were released at the fourth TTC ministerial meeting. 

In addition to releasing these principles, we are also publishing a
[status
report](https://digital-strategy.ec.europa.eu/en/library/status-report-mechanisms-researcher-access-online-platform-data)
on mechanisms for researcher access to online platform data, which
builds upon efforts undertaken by the academic and research community.
The aim of this work is to disseminate information about the new and
improved possibilities now available to study and understand systemic
risks related to online platforms. We call on online platforms to expand
and improve access for researchers, particularly on societal risks.

To deepen this work, in the margins of this Ministerial Meeting, we
organized a joint workshop on access to platform data and using this
data to combat technology-facilitated gender-based violence. We invited,
and continue to encourage, the research community to analyse these data
access mechanisms, and to explore how they can contribute to a better
understanding of the functioning of – and the potential risks emanating
from online platforms with regard to areas such as the mental health and
development of children and youth, and technology-facilitated
gender-based violence.

We share the commitment to the highest appropriate standards of
protection in these areas for users in both the United States and the
European Union.

**Protecting Human Rights Defenders Online**

The United States and the European Union recognise the key role human
rights defenders (HRDs) play in defending human rights and fundamental
freedoms, and we are committed to the protection of HRDs online and
offline. We are working together to address human rights risks stemming
from the misuse of digital technologies, including combatting internet
shutdowns, unlawful surveillance, and the targeting of HRDs online.
Elevating the critical role of HRDs and supporting and protecting them
in doing their work safely is not only a shared foreign policy priority
for the United States and the European Union, but an imperative for
advancing human rights for all.

Following the commitment made at the fourth TTC ministerial meeting, we
have published joint [Recommended Actions for Online Platforms on
Protecting Human Rights Defenders
Online](https://www.state.gov/united-states-and-european-union-release-joint-guidance-for-online-platforms-on-protecting-human-rights-defenders-online/#:~:text=The%20United%20States%20and%20European,rights%20defenders%20(HRDs)%20online).
This document sets out ten recommendations that online platforms can
take globally to prevent, mitigate, and provide remedy for attacks
against HRDs online.

These recommendations reflect commitments we made with global partners
through the Declaration of the Future of the Internet and reflect key
principles of U.S. and EU legislation, initiatives, and policies to
safeguard human rights online. They were informed by extensive
stakeholder consultations organized by the United States and the
European Union from January 2023 to February 2024. The United States and
the European Union intend to take further actions to address the needs
of HRDs around the world. We will engage with all relevant stakeholders
to promote the recommended actions and facilitate their implementation.
We will also facilitate further exchanges and cooperation between the
European Union- and United States-based emergency mechanisms on support
strategies which seek to prevent, curb, mitigate, and eliminate online
attacks, including the use of arbitrary and unlawful surveillance
targeting HRDs.

**Foreign Information Manipulation and Interference in Third Countries**

The United States and the European Union consider foreign information
manipulation and interference (FIMI) to be geopolitical and security
challenges. We share the aim of addressing this threat and enhancing the
resilience of democracies. Against this background, we have taken a
number of actions to increase transatlantic cooperation to proactively
address FIMI, including disinformation, while upholding human rights and
fundamental freedoms. We will continue to work together to address FIMI
through the TTC and other multi- and bilateral contexts.

We will continue to jointly use and further advance [the common
analytical methodology to identify, analyse and detect
FIMI](https://www.eeas.europa.eu/eeas/trade-and-technology-council-fourth-ministerial-%E2%80%93-annex-foreign-information-manipulation-and_en)
decided at the fourth TTC ministerial meeting. We are engaging with
other international partners on a quarterly basis to familiarise them
with this methodology. Expanding the network of partners familiar with
this methodology will enhance our common understanding of the threat and
allow us to jointly identify, analyse, and counter FIMI globally.

The European Union, the United States, and the Western Balkan partners
share the same vision for an open, reliable, and secure Internet, as
evidenced by their joint endorsement of the Declaration for the Future
of the Internet. We will coordinate our efforts in order to support the
Western Balkan partners by launching a coordination mechanism to address
FIMI threats more effectively in the region. This is in line with the
European Union’s and like-minded partners’ initiatives to increase their
capabilities to further identify, assess, and counter FIMI. Our support
will reduce third countries’, and in particular Russia’s and other
actors’, including China’s, ability to effectively employ FIMI campaigns
in the region. We will help our partners in the Western Balkans to
develop capacity in five key action areas: the development of national
strategies and policies, the creation of dedicated governance structures
and institutions, increasing human and technical capabilities,
protecting and supporting the role of independent media, academia, and
civil society, and multilateral engagement.

**Secure and Trusted Digital Infrastructure and Connectivity in Third
Countries**

The United States and the European Union reiterate the importance of and
support for secure, trusted, and resilient digital connectivity and
information and communication technology and services (ICTS) supply
chains in third countries, provided by trusted suppliers.

We commend the decisions taken by partner countries towards trusted ICT
ecosystems by ensuring high cybersecurity and resilience standards for
connectivity solutions and networks, including by restricting or
excluding high-risk suppliers from their national networks and using
trusted vendors and services providers for maintenance and repair.

We will continue to reach out to partners across the world to understand
the needs and challenges around securing digital infrastructure and
explore how we can best collaborate to support the digitalisation goals
of emerging economies. We continue to engage emerging economies through
technical discussions and high-level roundtables to increase interest in
secure digital connectivity. We also remain committed to continued
exchanges with relevant industry actors such as mobile network operators
and trusted equipment suppliers.

We are delivering on our commitments to support to secure and resilient
connectivity projects in Costa Rica, Jamaica, Kenya, and the
Philippines, including through mechanisms like the Global Gateway, the
Partnership for Global Infrastructure and Investment, and technical
exchanges, including third counties sharing experiences to accelerate
secure connectivity in other parts of the region.

The United States and the European Union are supporting Tunisia’s goal
of establishing secure digital connectivity and infrastructure by
relying on trusted vendors through collaborative advocacy, technical
assistance and by exploring financing, coordination, and policy
alignment. This includes providing training programs to targeted
Tunisian government agencies, IT professionals, and businesses, and
promoting the development of cybersecurity standards and frameworks, in
particular for 5G. The United States and the European Union are
advancing discussions with relevant financial institutions for the
mobilisation of support for secure digital connectivity infrastructure
projects with trusted vendors.

We aim to continue our actions to support secure and resilient digital
connectivity in third countries. Following the earlier signing of a
memorandum of understanding between the European Investment Bank (EIB)
and the U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (DFC), the
United States and the European Union intend to augment their actions by
furthering cooperation between the EU Member State and United States
financing agencies. In 2023, the Export-Import Bank of the United States
(EXIM) signed co-financing memorandums of understanding with the Swedish
EKN and Finnish Finnvera respectively to facilitate joint support for
export projects, and has enabled direct support to trusted suppliers
from both sides.

We are committed to exploring options to act strategically,
cooperatively, and efficiently to provide attractive incentives to
partner countries to choose trusted suppliers for the development of
their connectivity networks.

**Secure and Resilient International Connectivity**

The United States and the European Union recall the economic and
geostrategic importance of cooperating on trust and security in the
entirety of ICT infrastructure, including maintenance and repair. To
this end, we continue to seek ways to advance cooperation on
international connectivity with trustworthy, secure, and resilient
networks. This could include trans-oceanic routes including through the
Arctic and Pacific regions.

**III. <span style="text-decoration: underline">Building the
Transatlantic Partnership Together with Stakeholders</span>  
**  
We remain committed to high levels of transparency and the close
involvement of the transatlantic stakeholder community at large in the
work of the TTC, including businesses, labor organisations, non-profit
organisations, environmental constituencies, and academics.

We have therefore extensively reached out to stakeholders and given them
the possibility to be involved and to provide input and receive feedback
through the organisation of events, roundtables, and workshops and the
establishment of dedicated websites like
[Futurium](https://futurium.ec.europa.eu/en/EU-US-TTC/news/transatlantic-initiative-sustainable-trade-tist-stakeholder-engagement-event-summary-report).
With the support of the EU-financed Trade and Technology Dialogue,
several high-level events have taken place and stakeholders have been
consulted on topics such as sustainable trade, standardisation, AI,
connectivity, and semiconductors.

In addition to these activities, we have also engaged with relevant
stakeholders in more structured formats such as the Transatlantic Trade
and Labor Dialogue, the Talent for Growth Task Force, and with small and
medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in a series of webinars on the topic of
SME access to and use of digital tools.

**Talent for Growth**

The Talent for Growth Task Force, launched in April 2023 with a one-year
mandate, has served both as a platform for best practices and a catalyst
for innovative skills approaches that promote economic growth and create
opportunities for workers in the technology sector. The Task Force
brought together leaders from government, business, labor unions, and
organisations that support training from the United States and the
European Union. The Task Force identified, mapped, and disseminated
implementable models and ideas in four critical areas: t*raining workers
to meet business needs, including women and underrepresented groups in
technical jobs, Moving to a skills-first culture, and
micro-credentials.* The Task Force endorsed a
[statement](https://ec.europa.eu/social/BlobServlet?docId=27533&langId=en)
featuring key messages stemming from these discussions.

The discussions in this group have confirmed the critical role talent
plays for the sustainable growth of our economies and the well-being of
our societies in an age of rapidly changing technology. It examined the
acceleration of change brought about by AI. The Task Force has
established bilateral relations between Task Force members which have
catalysed private-sector initiatives and will last beyond the timeframe
of the Task Force. The European and the United States remain dedicated
to continuing to equip our workforces with the skills necessary to meet
the needs created by rapidly changing technology, including AI.

**Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises (SMEs)**

The United States and the European Union recognise the use of digital
tools as a key enabler for SMEs to innovate, grow, and compete and are
continuing their work to promote the uptake of digital technologies by
SMEs.

Several webinars and outreach activities where SMEs shared their needs
and experience were held during the last two years. After an analysis of
these stakeholder exchanges, we have developed a [common set of
recommendations](https://trade.gov/sites/default/files/2024-02/TTC_WG9_Recommendations.pdf?_gl=1*r614cp*_ga*MjA0OTE0NzQyMy4xNzExMDM3NzMx*_ga_L884J52XQ5*MTcxMTAzNzczMS4xLjEuMTcxMTAzODU4Mi41Mi4wLjA)
for U.S. and EU policymakers to implement measures to help SMEs to
accelerate access to these technologies.

The recommendations focus on the topics of digital-related trainings;
transatlantic exchange programmes; information-sharing on
cyber-security, intellectual property, and standards; and access to
finance. To continue the work, we intend to develop an implementation
process for these recommendations, including measures such as a webinar
on access to finance and the publishing of cross-referenced U.S. and EU
websites with practical information for SMEs.  
  
**IV. <span style="text-decoration: underline">Conclusion and Next
Steps</span>**<span style="text-decoration: underline">  
</span>  
Since its inaugural meeting on 29 September 2021, the TTC has realized
substantial progress and achievements across all workstreams. These
results have enabled the United States and the European Union: to
explore how to create new trade and investment opportunities, notably to
contribute to the green transition; to advance our shared leadership in
emerging technologies, such as 6G, quantum, and biotechnology so that
democracies can remain at the vanguard of these developments; to provide
a robust joint response to Russia’s war of aggression against Ukraine;
to cooperate on economic security measures to reduce economic
dependencies; to continue to develop a shared understanding of the
non-market policies and practices and the risks they pose or our
workers, businesses and markets globally; to jointly enhance supply
chain resilience while promoting transparency and cooperation on our
industrial policy approaches in key sectors, including semiconductors
and clean energy; to exchange information on best practices in
eliminating forced labor from our global supply chains; to advance and
reinforce interoperability between AI governance frameworks based on our
shared democratic values to achieve our common vision for safe, secure,
and trustworthy AI globally ; to advance the resilience and security of
our ICT infrastructures; and to finance and promote secure connectivity
with trusted suppliers around the world.

These achievements demonstrate the enduring ties between the United
States and the European Union and the importance of maintaining an
operational forum for cooperation on strategic trade and technology
issues of common interest and geopolitical relevance. As the United
States and the European Union enter their respective electoral
processes, the work we do under the TTC will remain relevant, strategic,
and timely, while allowing for the necessary flexibility to adapt to
changing circumstances.

Building on the lessons learned from our cooperation so far, we intend
to use the remainder of 2024 to engage with U.S. and EU stakeholders to
learn their views on the future of the TTC.

\###
