---
date: '2024-04-25'
modified_time: 2024-04-24 23:38:34-04:00
published_time: 2024-04-25 05:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/04/25/fact-sheet-president-biden-announces-up-to-6-1-billion-preliminary-agreement-with-micron-under-the-chips-and-science-act/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: President\_Biden Announces up to $6.1 Billion Preliminary Agreement\
  \ with Micron under the CHIPS and Science\_Act"
---
 
*Funding unleashes $125 billion in private investment from Micron to
build leading-edge memory semiconductor and create more than 20,000
direct jobs*.

Today, President Biden will travel to Syracuse, New York, to announce
that the Department of Commerce has reached a preliminary agreement with
Micron to provide up to ~$6.14 billion in direct funding under the CHIPS
and Science Act. This investment will support the construction of two
fabs in Clay, New York, and one fab in Boise, Idaho, unleashing $50
billion in private investment by 2030 as the first step towards Micron’s
investment of up to $125 billion across both states over the next two
decades to build a leading-edge memory manufacturing ecosystem. Micron’s
total investment will be the largest private investment in New York and
Idaho’s history, and will create over 70,000 jobs, including 20,000
direct construction and manufacturing jobs and tens of thousands of
indirect jobs. During his visit, President Biden will discuss how his
Investing in America agenda is building our economy from the middle out
and bottom up, mobilizing an economic comeback in communities like
Syracuse, and strengthening U.S. national security.  
  
Semiconductors were invented in America and power everything from cell
phones to electric vehicles, refrigerators, satellites, defense systems,
and more. But today, the United States produces only about 10 percent of
the world’s chips and none of the most advanced ones. Thanks to
President Biden’s CHIPS and Science Act, that is changing. Companies
have announced over $825 billion in investments in manufacturing and
clean energy in the United States since the President took office,
including in semiconductors. Semiconductor jobs and manufacturing
are making a comeback.   
  
Back in 2022 and shortly after President Biden’s CHIPS and Science Act
was signed into law, President Biden and Leader Schumer joined Micron in
New York to recognize the company’s intention to invest in the Syracuse
community. Today’s announcement is a major step in realizing the
aspiration laid out on that day – that the United States will once again
be a leader in global chip manufacturing. Leading-edge memory chips are
critical for advanced technology, including artificial intelligence and
advanced computing and communications.  
  
Micron’s projects will create a robust leading-edge memory chip
ecosystem and bring back leading-edge memory manufacturing to the United
States for the first time in over 20 years:

-   **Clay, New York**: Funding will support the construction of the
    first two fabs of a planned four fab “megafab” focused on
    leading-edge DRAM chip production. Each fab will have 600,000 square
    feet of cleanrooms, totaling 2.4 million square feet of cleanroom
    space across the four facilities—the largest amount of cleanroom
    space ever announced in the United States and the size of nearly 40
    football fields.  
-   **Boise, Idaho:** Funding will support the development of a
    high-volume manufacturing (HVM) fab, with approximately 600,000
    square feet of cleanroom space focused on the production of
    leading-edge DRAM chips. The fab would be co-located with the
    company’s existing, leading-edge R&D facility to improve efficiency
    across its R&D and manufacturing operations, reducing lags in
    technology transfer and cutting time-to-market for leading-edge
    memory products.

**Creating Good-Paying and Union Jobs with Good Benefits Across
America**  
Workforce Funding: President Biden promised to be the most pro-worker,
pro-union President in American history, and his Administration has
committed to ensuring that workers have the free and fair choice to join
a union and equitable training pathways to good jobs. Today’s
announcement includes at least $40 million in dedicated CHIPS funding
for training and workforce development to ensure local communities have
access to the jobs of the future. The focus of this funding will be
further determined in the coming months based on the Department
of [Commerce’s labor and workforce
priorities](https://www.nist.gov/document/chips-america-labor-fact-sheet),
in partnership with the Department of Labor.

Workforce Hubs: In addition, as part of the Administration’s effort to
connect workers with good-paying jobs created by the President’s
Investing in America agenda, today President Biden will announce four
additional Investing in America Workforce Hubs – including one in
Upstate New York, which will focus on semiconductor manufacturing –
along with Milwaukee, Philadelphia, and Michigan. These hubs complement
five existing Workforce Hubs, including those in Phoenix, Arizona, and
Columbus, Ohio that have already catalyzed new semiconductor training
programs.  These hubs will leverage and develop partnerships between
companies, educational institutions, and labor unions to meet our
nation’s workforce needs.

Project Labor Agreements: For these projects, Micron established two
Project Labor Agreements (PLAs) at both the New York and Idaho sites for
construction of new fabrication facilities. Both PLAs are the largest in
each state’s history. These PLAs ensure that projects are completed
efficiently and on time, while also supporting high quality jobs.

Registered Apprenticeships: To prepare for the thousands of jobs that
will need to be filled, Micron is also leveraging Registered
Apprenticeship programs to assist and propel underrepresented
individuals to “earn-and-learn” and provide a pathway to well-paying
careers. In New York, Micron has a partnership with the Manufacturers
Association of Central New York. In Idaho, Micron established its
first-ever Registered Apprenticeship Program in the state in partnership
with the Idaho Manufacturing Alliance and College of Western Idaho.
Micron is also joining DOL’s Advanced Manufacturing Sector Table of
leading labor, industry, and workforce organizations committed to
equitably building and growing the next generation of the manufacturing
workforce here in the United States. The AFL-CIO Working for America
Institute will support DOL’s Sector Table by working with Micron, the
American Federation of Teachers (AFT), and other employer and labor
organizations to develop, scale, and adopt a universal pathway
curriculum for advanced manufacturing, including semiconductor
manufacturing, to provide workers an onramp to good manufacturing jobs
and create a pipeline of job-ready workers for employers across the
country. Finally, Micron is also engaging with the AFT, its New York
affiliates, the State of New York, and teachers to develop a training
framework based on foundational and technical skills found throughout
the semiconductor industry to engage and train students.

Good Jobs Principles: Micron has established itself as a leader on
workforce issues, including by living up to the [Department of
Commerce’s and Labor’s Good Jobs
Principles](https://www.dol.gov/general/good-jobs/principles), which
includes offering living wage starting salaries, opportunities for
promotion—including for individuals from diverse and non-traditional
backgrounds—a comprehensive benefits package, and an organizational
culture that encourages feedback from all members to help Micron retain
talent and strengthen its workforce over time.

Child Care: Micron has committed to providing affordable, accessible,
high-quality child care for its workers across its facilities, and is
building new child care facilities in both Idaho and New York, as well
as partnering with local child care providers to provide subsidized
care.

Right to Organize: Micron has affirmed it respects workers’ rights to
organize, to share feedback without fear of reprisal, and to
collectively bargain. The Administration strongly supports these rights,
and expects Micron to neither hold mandatory captive audience meetings
nor hire anti-union consultants. Micron and the Communications Workers
of America (CWA) plan to meet to discuss labor peace. The Administration
also plans to convene industrial unions and CHIPS companies to discuss
workforce issues.

Sustainability: Micron is committed to delivering on its existing
sustainability framework for the design and operations of its new
facility, which includes planning to use 100% renewable electricity at
the facilities and mitigating greenhouse gases. These efforts support
Micron’s global target to achieve net-zero emissions from operations and
purchased energy by 2050.

**Rebuilding America’s Communities**  
Today’s announcement is part of the President’s commitment to revitalize
communities that for too long have been overlooked by federal
investment. This investment is symbolic of how innovation, national
security, and economic competitiveness can bring back communities that
were once powerhouses. Syracuse was a manufacturing hub during World War
II, when General Electric began building engines, vacuum tubes, and
radar systems for the military. After powering the country to victory in
World War II, families in Syracuse were left behind by decades of failed
trickle-down policies. Factory closures led to jobs flowing overseas,
increased rates of poverty, and a decline in income.

President Biden came to office with a different agenda – to leave no
community behind and build the economy from the middle out and bottom
up. Today’s announcement is coupled with ongoing, targeted investments
in the Syracuse region. For example, the Department of Commerce
[designated](https://www.eda.gov/funding/programs/regional-technology-and-innovation-hubs/2023/NY-SMART-I-Corridor-Tech-Hub)
upstate New York as a Tech Hub; the President’s Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law is investing $180 million in the I-81 viaduct project
to reconnect communities in Syracuse divided by transportation
infrastructure; the Department of Energy and National Grid [are
investing](https://www.energy.gov/gdo/grid-resilience-and-innovation-partnerships-grip-program-projects)
a combined $140 million in upstate New York’s electric system; and the
Environmental Protection Agency
[awarded](https://cumulis.epa.gov/supercpad/cursites/csitinfo.cfm?id=0203382)
$23 million in funding to clean up industrial waste. These investments
set the stage for a new chapter in Syracuse’s economic history.

Now, the Syracuse region is making a comeback. After 22,000 jobs
disappeared from the Syracuse region under the prior Administration,
President Biden has added 25,000 jobs in Syracuse and over 1 million
jobs statewide in New York. And workers are taking home more – real per
capita personal income is up nearly 5%. Micron’s new investment is
expected to create tens of thousands of jobs across suppliers and
supporting industries – on top of the approximately 20,000 manufacturing
and construction jobs it will directly employ – fostering a more
resilient semiconductor supply chain in the U.S.

**Building on Historic Progress Under the CHIPS and Science Act**  
Today’s announcement is the seventh preliminary memorandum of terms
(PMT)

under the CHIPS and Science Act:

-   In April 2024, the Administration announced $6.4 billion for Samsung
    to build leading-edge logic, R&D, and advanced packaging fabs in
    Taylor, TX, and to expand a current-generation and mature-node
    facility in Austin, TX.  
-   In April 2024, the Administration announced $6.6 billion for Taiwan
    Semiconductor Manufacturing Company to support the development of
    three greenfield leading-edge fabs in Phoenix, AZ.  
-   In March 2024, the Administration announced $8.5 billion for Intel
    to support investments across four states, (Chandler, AZ; Rio
    Rancho, NM; New Albany, OH; and Hillsboro, OR) to construct new
    leading-edge logic fabs, modernize advanced packaging facilities,
    and invest in R&D.  
-   In February 2024, the Administration announced $1.5 billion for
    GlobalFoundries to support the development and expansion of
    facilities in Malta, NY, and Burlington, VT.  
-   In January 2024, the Administration announced $162 million for
    Microchip Technology Inc. to increase its production of
    microcontroller units and other specialty semiconductors, and to
    support the modernization and expansion of fabrication facilities in
    Colorado Springs, CO, and Gresham, OR.  
-   In December 2023, the Administration announced $35 million for BAE
    Systems Electronic Systems to support the modernization of the
    company’s Microelectronics Center in Nashua, NH. This facility will
    produce chips that are essential to our national security, including
    for use in F-35 fighter jets.

President Biden’s Investing in America agenda – including the CHIPS and
Science Act – is spurring a manufacturing and clean energy boom. Since
President Biden took office through the end of March 2024, companies
have announced over $825 billion in private sector investments in
manufacturing and clean energy, and over 50,000 infrastructure and clean
energy projects are underway. This announcement is part of the
President’s broader commitment to build an economy from the middle out
and bottom up, not the top down, and invest in all of America. 

\###
