---
date: '2024-04-23'
modified_time: 2024-04-22 22:53:17-04:00
published_time: 2024-04-23 05:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/04/23/fact-sheet-at-white-house-water-summit-biden-harris-administration-announces-bold-national-goal-to-protect-and-restore-freshwater-resources-delivers-over-1-billion-for-tribal-clean-water-projects/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: At White\_House Water Summit, Biden-\u2060Harris Administration\
  \ Announces Bold National Goal to Protect and Restore Freshwater Resources, Delivers\
  \ Over $1 Billion for Tribal Clean Water\_Projects"
---
 
*Administration announces $1 billion for clean water for Tribal Nations
and funding to combat megadrought in the West through President Biden’s
Investing in America agenda*

President Biden and Vice President Harris believe that every person
should have access to clean drinking water and a healthy environment.
Since Day One, the Biden-Harris Administration [has
worked](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/03/22/fact-sheet-on-world-water-day-biden-harris-administration-builds-on-historic-progress-to-protect-clean-drinking-water-restore-our-nations-rivers-lakes-ponds-and-wetlands/)
to secure clean water for all, protect our vital freshwater resources,
and ensure every community can count on water free of pollutants when
they turn on the faucet. The Administration also recognizes that
wetlands and other freshwater resources are critical in our fight
against climate change.

Today, during Earth Week, the White House is convening state, Tribal,
and local leaders from across the country for a **White House Water
Summit** where the Administration will announce a new national goal and
partnership to conserve and restore freshwater resources. [*The America
the Beautiful Freshwater Challenge: A Partnership to Conserve andRestore
America’s Rivers, Lakes, Streams, and
Wetlands*](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/04/America-the-Beautiful-Freshwater-Challenge.pdf)
**sets a bold, new national goal to protect, restore, and reconnect 8
million acres of wetlands and 100,000 miles of our nation’s river and
streams**.

To achieve the new national freshwater protection goal and to ensure
that our freshwater resources are protected for current and future
generations as part of the *America the Beautiful Freshwater Challenge*,
the Biden-Harris Administration is also **launching a new initiative**
that calls on all states and other governments and entities, including
Tribes, interstate organizations, cities, and local communities to
advance their own policies and strategies for conserving and restoring
America’s freshwater systems. [**Over 100 inaugural
members**](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/ceq/97632) **from across the
country have already signed on to support freshwater restoration** in
their communities, including ten states, eight Tribes, and 24 local
governments.

To bring safe, clean water to Tribal communities, the Department of
Health and Human Services’ Indian Health Services (IHS) and the
Department of the Interior’s Bureau of Reclamation (BOR) are
**announcing** **over $1 billion from the President’s Investing in
America agenda and a new partnership**. Roughly half of Tribal
households lack access to clean drinking water or adequate sanitation.
Today’s announcement includes $700 million from IHS and [$320 million
from
BOR](https://www.doi.gov/pressreleases/biden-harris-administration-announces-320-million-tribal-domestic-water)
to accelerate the delivery of drinking water and community sanitation
infrastructure projects in Indian Country. In addition, IHS and BOR are
announcing the **signing of a** **Memorandum of Understanding (MOU)
between the two agencies to leverage BOR’s engineering capacity to
accelerate the delivery of Tribal water projects.**

Our nation’s lakes, rivers, streams, estuaries, and wetlands are
fundamental to the health, prosperity, and resilience
of our communities and are held sacred by many Tribal Nations. They are
not only the sources of clean drinking water that flows into the taps
of our homes, but also economic drivers supporting jobs and outdoor
recreation across the nation. By absorbing and storing carbon, our
nation’s waterways and wetlands – and the forests, grasslands, and
farmlands they nourish – play a critical role in the fight against
climate change.

Although critically important to both people and nature, our
freshwater resources are at increased risk. Through 2019, the U.S.
wetlands loss rate [increased 50
percent](https://www.fws.gov/media/status-and-trends-wetlands-conterminous-united-states-2009-2019)
over the prior decade. That was before the U.S. Supreme Court’s
*Sackett* decision last year, which dramatically reduced federal
protections for wetlands in one of the largest judicial rollbacks of
environmental protections in U.S. history.  Despite this, Congressional
Republicans are continuing a decades-long effort to undermine Clean
Water Act safeguards.

Many states are already using their own authorities and resources to
better protect America’s freshwater systems. For example, North Carolina
recently set a goal to protect one million acres of natural lands, with
a special focus on wetlands, and to restore one million acres of forests
and wetlands within the state. New York state recently enacted statutory
changes to its Freshwater Wetlands Act that will safeguard an additional
million acres of valuable wetlands. And Washington recently protected
almost 1,000 miles of rivers as Outstanding National Resource Waters,
one of the highest levels of protection afforded to our freshwater
resources.

At the White House Water Summit and throughout Earth Week, the
Biden-Harris Administration is making additional announcements to build
resilience to climate change and ensure every community has access to
clean water:

-   The Department of the Interior is announcing an additional **$11
    million in new resources from the Bureau of Reclamation’s**
    [**WaterSMART program**](https://www.usbr.gov/watersmart/) **to help
    combat Western megadrought.** The Biden-Harris Administration is
    [leading a comprehensive
    effort](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/03/05/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-protects-stability-and-sustainability-of-colorado-river-basin-advances-water-conservation-across-the-west/)
    to make Western communities more resilient to climate change and
    address the ongoing megadrought across the region by harnessing the
    full resources of President Biden’s historic Investing in America
    agenda. Together, the Inflation Reduction Act and Bipartisan
    Infrastructure Law provide the largest investment in climate
    resilience in our nation’s history, including $15.4 billion to
    enhance the West’s resilience to drought and deliver unprecedented
    resources to protect river systems across the West.  
-   As part of the [Biden-Harris Get the Lead Out
    Partnership](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/01/27/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-new-actions-and-progress-to-protect-communities-from-lead-pipes-and-paint/),
    the Great Lakes and St. Lawrence Cities Initiative is partnering
    with three of its members – Chicago, Detroit, and Milwaukee – to
    launch the [**Great Lakes Lead Pipes
    Partnership**](https://glslcities.org/wp-content/uploads/2024/04/04.23.24_White-House-Water-Summit-2.pdf)**,
    a first-of-its kind, mayor-led effort to accelerate lead pipe
    replacement in cities with the heaviest lead burdens.** Many of
    the estimated 9 million lead pipes remaining in the United States
    are concentrated in Great Lakes metropolitan areas. This partnership
    will provide a collaborative forum for Great Lakes big cities to
    share emerging best practices to encourage faster, more equitable
    replacement programs and overcome common challenges, including by
    reducing per pipe replacement costs, improving community outreach,
    and spurring water workforce development.

<!-- -->

-   The Department of the Interior is announcing **more than $70 million
    from President Biden’s Investing in America agenda for 43 projects
    in 29 states that will address outdated or obsolete dams, culverts,
    levees and other barriers to the nation’s rivers and streams.** This
    Bipartisan Infrastructure Law funding will help restore fragmented
    aquatic habitats and revitalize local economies in communities
    across the nation while creating new jobs in construction and
    implementation. Projects receiving funding will reconnect aquatic
    systems and improve fish passage to help conserve vulnerable
    species, while building safer infrastructure for communities,
    increasing recreational opportunities, and improving climate
    resilience. The funding is also part of an investment of over $3
    billion across federal agencies in fish passage and aquatic
    connectivity projects under President Biden’s [Investing in
    America](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/invest/) agenda.

<!-- -->

-   The Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) published the
    [**Federal Flood Risk Management Standard (FFRMS) final
    rule**](https://www.hud.gov/press/press_releases_media_advisories/HUD_No_24_085)
    **to help communities prepare for and reduce flood damage.** This
    rule strengthens standards by increasing elevations and flood
    proofing requirements of properties in areas at risk of flooding,
    where federal funds are used to develop or provide financing for new
    construction and substantial improvement within the FFRMS
    floodplain. This will strengthen resilience to flooding, [protect
    lives and
    properties](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/ceq/news-updates/2024/04/11/a-new-tool-to-help-plan-for-and-protect-against-floods/),
    minimize damage and disruption to households, reduce insurance costs
    and safeguard federal investments – ensuring that federally-funded
    construction projects are built to withstand current and future
    flood risks.  
-   The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA)
    [**announced** **$123
    million**](https://www.noaa.gov/news-release/biden-harris-administration-announces-123-million-for-coastal-habitat-restoration)
    **for state and territorial coastal management programs and national
    estuarine research reserves to support habitat restoration and
    conservation.** Within this investment, $36 million will be
    designated for projects being carried out in partnership with or
    directly by Tribes and Native Hawaiians, including reacquisitions
    and restoration of ecological and culturally significant ancestral
    lands. This investment will help to protect critical resources for
    coastal habitat restoration, create new jobs, and boost resilience
    to extreme weather events across our nation’s coastal communities.

Today’s announcements build on recent actions that deliver on the
Biden-Harris Administration’s commitment to ensuring safe drinking
water, including finalizing the first-ever standard to [protect
communities from toxic “forever
chemicals,”](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/04/10/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-takes-critical-action-to-protect-communities-from-pfas-pollution-in-drinking-water/)
along with rulemakings to [hold polluters responsible for PFAS
cleanup](https://www.epa.gov/newsreleases/biden-harris-administration-finalizes-critical-rule-clean-pfas-contamination-protect)
and to [enhance safeguards against dangerous chemical spills in our
nation’s
waters](https://www.epa.gov/newsreleases/epa-requires-industrial-facilities-enhance-preparation-chemical-discharges-water).
The Administration is also continuing to deliver on President Biden’s
goal to [replace every lead pipe in
America](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/11/30/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-new-action-to-protect-communities-from-lead-exposure/)
in the next decade.

Throughout Earth Week, the Biden-Harris Administration will announce
additional actions to build a stronger, healthier future for all. On
Monday, President Biden announced the launch of
[ClimateCorps.gov](https://www.acc.gov/) as well as [$7 billion in
awards](https://www.epa.gov/newsreleases/biden-harris-administration-announces-7-billion-solar-all-grants-deliver-residential)
through EPA’s Solar for All program. Tuesday is focused on helping
ensure clean water for all communities; Wednesday will focus on
accelerating America’s clean transportation future; Thursday will focus
on steps to cut pollution from the power sector while strengthening
America’s electricity grid; and Friday will focus on providing cleaner
air and healthier schools for all children.

\###
