---
date: '2024-04-17'
modified_time: 2024-04-18 12:04:26-04:00
published_time: 2024-04-17 13:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/04/17/background-press-call-by-senior-administration-officials-on-venezuela-3/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Background Press Call by Senior Administration Officials on\_Venezuela"
---
 
Via Teleconference

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Good morning, everyone.  Thank you for joining
us today for an NSC backgrounder call on the situation in Venezuela and
U.S. actions that we’ll be taking.

At this time, participants, please note that we have — just for your
awareness, not for reporting — on the line, we have \[senior
administration official\], \[senior administration official\], and
\[senior administration official\].  
  
Again, that is just for your awareness, not for reporting.  The contents
of the call will be attributable to “senior administration officials,”
and it will be embargoed until 3:30 p.m. 

With that, I will — I would like to turn it over to \[senior
administration official\].  

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Great.  Thank you very much, and it’s a
pleasure to be here with everyone this morning.  Thank you to everyone
for calling in and for your interest.  Venezuela is a very important
issue for this administration, and it’s a critical time, so I’m really
pleased to be here with my colleagues from the other agencies. 

The purpose of this call is to share with you that later today, Treasury
will announce that General License 44 will not be renewed, and we will
instead issue General License 44A, authorizing a 45-day wind-down period
for transactions related to oil and gas sector operations in Venezuela. 
I will let my colleague speak to some of the technical aspects of this
decision and some of the current concerns that we have about the current
situation in Venezuela.  

But I did want to provide a few words at the top to explain why we made
this decision and its implications.  General License 44 — or what we
refer to as “GL 44” — was issued in October of last year to support
commitments that were made in the Barbados Agreement, an agreement that
was signed by representatives of Nicolás Maduro in Venezuela and members
of the political opposition.  This Barbados agreement was signed on
October 17th, 2023. 

Since the GL 44 was issued last October, we have been consistent in our
public messaging and our private messaging that maintaining this
sanctions relief in Venezuela’s oil and gas sector depends on Maduro’s
commitment to uphold the Barbados Agreement.  And over the past six
months, the U.S. administration has been closely monitoring the
situation in Venezuela, and we’ve remained in very close touch with a
range of stakeholders to assess the Venezuelan authorities’ progress on
implementing the Barbados Agreement, which is intended to allow for an
inclusive and competitive election in 2024.  

Over the past several months and weeks, we have completed a very careful
review, and we have determined that although the Venezuelan authorities
have met some key commitments, they’ve also fallen short in several
areas.  The areas in which they have fallen short include the
disqualification of candidates and parties on technicalities and what we
see as a continued pattern of harassment and repression against
opposition figures and civil society. 

We were particularly concerned by the fact that the Venezuelan
authorities also blocked the leading opposition candidate María Corina
Machado from running and also did not allow her designated alternative
candidate, Dr. Corina Yoris, to register as a candidate for the
presidency. 

As a result of those actions, while Maduro and his representatives have
upheld certain aspects of the Barbados Agreement with respect to
beginning to update the electoral registry, of starting a process to
allow international election observation, and establishing an electoral
timeline, Maduro and his representatives have not followed through with
one of the most critical commitments, which was — (a fire alarm sounds)
— (inaudible) the right of all candidates to run.  

And, apologies, we have an alarm going off here. 

In order to ensure that the expiration of GL 44 does not provoke
uncertainty in the global energy sector, the administration —

\[Moderator\], I’m just going to hold here until this alarm ceases.  You
can go to the other speakers, and I’ll come back on the line.  Thanks.  

MODERATOR:  Sounds great.  Apologies for the interruption here, guys. 
We’ll go on to \[senior administration official\].  

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks very much.  And as \[senior
administration official\] shared, we issued GL 44 to support commitments
made in the Barbados Agreement.  Unfortunately, Maduro and his
representatives did not fully comply with the spirit or the letter of
the agreement. 

In public statements, we outlined many of these undemocratic actions. 
Maduro and his representatives maintained the disqualification of
opposition primary winner María Corina Machado.  When María Corina
Machado expressed her willingness to identify a consensus substitute
with other opposition members, Maduro representatives prevented the
democratic opposition from registering Dr. Corina Yoris. 

Maduro representatives unjustly detained multiple opposition political
members in civil society, and we witnessed a disturbing campaign of
harassment and an intimidation of opposition actors solely for
exercising their political rights to assembly and campaign. 

While our focus today is on GL 44, I want to stress the enormous
courage, resiliency, and pragmatism of the opposition under these
difficult circumstances.  

We are in regular contact with opposition representatives, and I want to
highlight that it’s quite clear that they and the vast majority of
Venezuelans still want and are making every effort to achieve a
competitive election with a serious opposition candidate on the 2024
ballot. 

Our action on GL 44 should not be viewed as a final decision that we no
longer believe Venezuela can hold competitive and inclusive elections. 
We will continue to engage with all stakeholders — including Maduro
representatives, the democratic opposition, civil society, and the
international community — to support the Venezuelan people’s efforts to
ensure a better future for Venezuela. 

The Barbados Agreement still represents the best available path toward a
more democratic, secure, and prosperous Venezuela if fully
implemented.  

MODERATOR:  Thank you very much, \[senior administration official\].  

We will — \[senior administration official\], are you still on the
line?  Okay.  Sounds like we’re having some technical difficulties with
\[senior administration official\]. 

We will go now to \[senior administration official\].  

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Great.  Thanks so much. 

Hi, everybody.  This is \[senior administration official\].  And while
my colleagues have discussed the policy today, I wanted to take just a
moment to go over some of the technical aspects of today’s action. 

General License 44A issued today will replace General License 44, which
means that any activity that was previously allowed under General
License 44 with respect to the oil and gas sector of Venezuela will need
to be wound down by May 31st.  New activity that was — any new activity
that was previously covered by General License 44 will no longer be
allowed. 

So, we routinely allow for these types of wind-down windows to allow
people to wrap up their business in an orderly manner and not cause
unwanted spillover effects. 

As you may know, our general licenses are broad, public, and
self-executing authorizations, which means that as long as an activity
conforms with what’s laid out in the text of that public license,
companies don’t need to ask OFAC permission to engage in any of the
covered activities.

In all of our section’s programs, OFAC also has the authority to issue
what we call specific licenses.  Now, these are a little bit different. 
They are non-public authorizations that are issued on a case-by-case
basis based on the facts of the application, and they deal with
individual circumstances. 

With the wind-down today of the public general license, individual
companies may now apply for specific licenses related to activities in
Venezuela’s oil and gas sector, which will then be evaluated on a
case-by-case basis, similar to how we handle licenses in any other OFAC
program. 

So, the process of evaluating a specific license includes — is not
public, but it does include taking into consideration the national
security interests and foreign policy interests of the United States
through close consultation with and receipt of foreign policy guidance
from our State Department. 

Today’s action will not affect other existing authorizations related to
Venezuela’s oil and gas sector, such as Venezuela General License 8M or
General License 41. 

And back over to you.  

MODERATOR:  Thank you very much, \[senior administration official\]. 

We’ll try it again.  \[Senior administration official\], are you back on
our line?  

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yes, thank you.  I’m back on the line. 
It wasn’t a technical difficulty exactly, but I had — did have to pause
for a moment.  But I think that my colleagues covered the rest of the
issues expertly.  So, I’m happy to go to Q&A.  Thank you.  

MODERATOR:  Great.  Thank you.  \[Operator\], would you please go over
instructions on how to ask questions?  

OPERATOR:  Sure.  

MODERATOR:  And we can open up for Qs and As.  Thank you.  

OPERATOR:  Okay.  And we do have several questions here. 

All right.  We’ll go ahead and take the first.  

Q    Hello?  

OPERATOR:  Yes, please go ahead.  

Q    Yeah, this is Josh Goodman from the Associated Press.  I wanted to
see, in addition to the discussion of the sanctions, whether you could
talk a little bit about some of the actors in the political process
unfolding now in Venezuela around the election. 

Has the U.S. had any direct contact with former gov- — with Governor
Manuel Rosales?  He was a presidential candidate who once ran against
Hugo Chávez.  He did not compete in the opposition primary process;
however, you know, he is registered to compete. 

Do you consider him a real alternative to Maduro or, as some in the
opposition suggest, more of a stooge, someone who serves the interests
of the government?  Thanks.  

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So, thanks for that, Josh.  Through our
Venezuela Affairs Unit as well as folks here in Washington, we have
contact with a broad, broad range of political actors inside Venezuela. 
And I don’t want to get into the specific nature of those discussions,
but I do want to stress that our goal is to support the democratic
opposition in Venezuela broadly. 

And to that end, we cast a — a wide net in our conversations.  And I
encourage the democratic opposition, through the unitary platform and —
and other venues, to come together and reach shared positions on their
way forward.  And I’ll just leave it at that.  

OPERATOR:  Okay.  We’ll take our next question. 

Just a reminder, please remember to state your name and outlet before
your question.  Thank you.  

Q    Hi.  Thanks for doing this.  This is Jennifer Hansler with CNN.  I
was wondering if there is any way you can quantify how many businesses
or how much — what sort of transactions were made in the time that this
general license was in effect and what impact you expect this to have
financially on Venezuela’s oil and gas sectors?  Thank you.  

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Hi, this is \[senior administration
official\].  We don’t have the figures on what exactly — what level of
business was — was conducted under the auspices of the general license. 
There’s not a reporting requirement, so we don’t have those exact
figures.  Over.

OPERATOR:  And we’ll move to our next caller.  

Q    Hi, good morning.  Do you hear me?  

OPERATOR:  Yes, please go ahead.  

Q    Okay.  This is Juan Hernando from TV Colombia.  Just to be clear,
so this period of 45 days is only to wind down operations of enterprises
that already have commitments or business with (inaudible)?  It doesn’t
allow new enterprises to make business during that period of 45 days? 

And the other question is: How coordinated was this decision with the
Colombian government and Gustavo Petro, taking into account that he has
been engaging directly with Nicolás Maduro?  Thank you.  

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  This is \[senior administration
official\] again.  I’ll take the first part of that.  Under — under a
wind-down general license, it is to wind down and to have an orderly
completion of transactions that were in progress under the general
license — that was General License 44 — that was issued in October. 

If it’s about activity that was outside the scope or otherwise
authorized that wasn’t under the general license, it’s not going to be
affected by this wind-down.  So, if folks took on new activity that
needed General License 44 to be compliant with our sanctions, it’s that
activity that we would expect to be wound down under our — under our
wind-down authorization that we’re issuing today. 

Over.  

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  This is \[senior administration
official\].  I’ll start on the first part of the — of the question on
the engagement with — with Colombia. 

So, from the beginning, it’s been extremely important to us that we — we
maintain close contact and collaboration with a wide range of partners
and allies on issues with respect to Venezuela.  And that inc- —
certainly include- — includes those in the region, including Colombia. 

And so, we have engaged with Colombia on this.  They are aware of and —
and tracking, at a minimum, the difficulties that we’ve seen and our
perspective on Venezuela’s overall compliance with the Barbados
Agreement. 

And then, I’ll share with my colleague \[redacted\] for any other
perspective.  Thank you. 

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Nothing to add.  

OPERATOR:  Okay.  We’ll go ahead and take our next question.  

Q    Hi, this is Rafael Rojas from BBC Mundo.  I wanted to ask whether
you had any information on the possible facts, going back to the
previous question, that Colombia might play a role as an overseer in the
election.  And what — what news does the U.S. have on — on a role of
overseer from the partners in the Venezuelan election?  

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So, we support the presence of
international electoral observers in Venezuela, and we understand that
Colombia has been invited to send observers for the process.  That would
be in addition to the invitations to the European Union and the Carter
Center and other organizations. 

Having an international presence we consider positive.  Colombia, as a
border country to Venezuela, has important relationships and interests. 
That means that their engagement is something that’s important to the
Colombian government and people.  And I think it can be a positive
impact on — on the way forward toward a more democratic Venezuela.  

OPERATOR:  Moving to the next caller.  

Q    Yes.  Hello, this is Matt Spetalnick with Reuters.  So, a couple
questions, please.  What, if any, considerations were given in the
sanctions decision on the impact it might have on spurring higher global
oil prices, including at the pump in the U.S., and on the number of
Venezuelan migrants flowing to the U.S.-Mexico border? 

And separately from that, is the administration leaving in place the
separate license that removed the secondary trading ban on certain
Venezuelan sovereign bonds (inaudible) PDVSA’s debt equity?  

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I’ll take the first part of that.  So,
in making this determination of whether or not Venezuelan authorities
were in compliance with the Barbados Agreement, we really focused on the
political circumstances and situation in Venezuela. 

But, of course, there was an interagency process that accompanied this
that was able to bring in a wider array of interest and issues, which
were, of course, part of the overall context of this — of this
decision.  But fundamentally, the decision was based on the — the
actions and non-action of the Venezuelan authorities. 

OPERATOR:  And we’ll take the next caller now.  

Q    Thank you for this opportunity.  I’m Carla Angola from (inaudible)
Network, and my question is: The extent of the authorization for Chevron
in Venezuela arose from agreements in Mexico, which were part of a
concession to the Maduro regime to motivate them to sit at a negotiating
table.  Are those Chevron licenses going to be reviewed as well?  In any
case, what is the difference between that license and License 44 if
Maduro’s failure to comply with the agreements is the same? 

And regarding the hostage exchanges with the Maduro regime, when Alex
Saab was sent to Venezuela, Madura released arrest warrants against
members of María Corina Machado’s Vente Venezuela political party.  But
three months later, Maduro reissued those arrest warrants against them. 
And today, they are either in a prison or torture center, or they are
taking refuge in an embassy. 

It looks like you handed over Alex Saab in exchange for no one, because
those people are still persecuted today.  How serious is it for you? 
That seems to have been just a disguise by the Maduro regime.  Thank you
so much.  

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  \[Senior administration official\], do
you want to take the first part, and I’ll take the second part?  

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Sure.  Happy to do it, \[senior
administration official\].  So, on — on the question about the
Chevron-related license — that’s General License 41 — as we’ve said
before in — in evaluating this most recent batch of sanctions relief
that came in October, what we’ve said is that we would look at that and
any calibrations to it, up or down, to be proportional with the progress
made under the Barbados Agreement. 

And so, I would just say: Recall that the Chevron predated that by a
period of time, and that was a base-level commitment to reengage in the
talks, which did happen.  And so, this — this decision point, which is,
you know, with the commitments under Barbados and since October, has
there been a meeting of those commitments, and, if not, what is our
proportional response, that’s what you see today in the issuing of the
wind-down.   

MODERATOR:  \[Senior administration official\], did you want to take the
next other part?  

OPERATOR:  I’m looking at the line here.  We may have lost \[senior
administration official\]. 

Oh, yes, I see he’s reconnecting now.  Just a moment.  

MODERATOR:  Could we go to the next question and maybe come back if he
can answer that second part of the question?  

OPERATOR:  Certainly. 

MODERATOR:  Thanks.

OPERATOR:  We’ll go ahead and take the next caller for now.  

Q    Hello, it’s Michael Stone here from the Financial Times.  Thank you
for doing this.  I understand that the Chevron license continues intact,
but could you clarify whether the licenses that were issued to Trinidad
and Shell for gas and to Repsol and Maurel & Prom for oil, whether those
also continue or whether those have been canceled? 

And, secondly, what impact do you believe the totality of the package
announced today is going to have on Venezuelan oil production and output
over the coming months?  What sort of reduction will there be as a
result of these measures?  

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Gotcha.  This is \[senior
administration official\].  I’m happy to take the — the first part. 

I think you’ve asked about a couple of different items that may have
come in.  As I mentioned in my, sort of, opening remarks, we have two
types of licenses that we give.  Some are general licenses.  Those are
public.  But we also allow individual parties with particular fact
patterns that ask to come in, and we evaluate them on a case-by-case
basis for specific licenses.  And those are — are non-public and
protected through — through law, as far as discussing the details of
them, although the — any party that submits that can release that. 

So, I don’t have more to share on those particular items related to
specific parties.  

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Hey, this is \[senior administration
official\].  My — I got dropped from the call earlier, but I’m back.  

OPERATOR:  Okay.  \[Senior administration official\], did you want to
address the portion of the question that you were going to?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Happy to do so.  So, we are very
concerned about the arrest of Henry Alviarez and Dignora Hernández and
the issuance of arrest warrants for seven other advisors to María Corina
Machado, the harassment of opposition members, and the detention of
other civil society actors, including Rocío San Miguel. 

We are continuing to raise those issues with the other side.  But we’re
also proud that, through this process, we’re able to obtain the release
of six wrongfully detained American citizens, to secure the release of
and return of others who are in jail in Venezuela, including the return
of a fugitive from justice from the United States. 

We continue to believe that the Barbados Agreement represents the only
important and viable path forward, but the other side has failed to
comply with its obligations.  And for that reason, we’ve taken the steps
that we’re taking today. 

And we will continue to talk to our friends and allies and make common
cause with them to try to secure the release of all those who are
wrongfully detained or arrested or jailed in Venezuela for expressing
their fundamental human rights and civic rights in that country.  

OPERATOR:  Okay.  We’ll go ahead and take the next caller here.

Q    Hi.  Good morning.  Thank you so much for doing this.  I have a
question.  Does President Biden continue to believe in Nicolás Maduro’s
goodwill as it has been described on several occasions before?  And will
this administration change or is trying to change its current policy on
Venezuela? 

And, also, what are the concerns about the — just (inaudible) on that
question about immigration, what are the concerns of the Biden
administration on an eventual increase of Venezuela migrants arriving at
the border due to a possible outcome of the elections in July? 

Thank you.  And Jorge with Voice of America.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I’ll take the first crack at that.  So,
the — the Biden administration remains very committed to and focused on
ensuring a restoration of democracy in Venezuela and — and working to
see that the upcoming elections that will take place there later this
year are as free and fair and competitive — as competitive as they —
they can possibly be. 

And, of course, we’re very attuned as well for the welfare of the
Venezuelan people and would prefer to see a situation where the people
in Venezuela are able to live in a prosperous and secure setting and
certainly not suffer the humanitarian challenges and the deep insecurity
that — that exists today. 

And so, that’s — that’s our overall objective.  That’s what we’re
focused on.  We do believe that securing greater space for political
freedom and for this election to be as democratic as it can possibly be
an important step towards that.  

With respect to some of the broader issues that you raise, of course, we
are very aware of the migration flows that have emanated from Venezuela
over the past several years.  Those flows are not only affecting the
United States, but they’ve really had broad impacts across the region,
including in Venezuela’s close neighbors, such as Colombia and Brazil,
and other parts of Latin America and Central America. 

And so, this administration is also very committed to working
cooperatively with our partners throughout the hemisphere on migration
management to make sure that it’s more effective, that it’s humane, and
that the need for people to or desire for people to cross their borders
without documentation can be vastly reduced.  That’s something that we
are working on with all of our partners in the region.  And that is
something that will remain a priority for the Biden administration.  

OPERATOR:  Okay.  I believe we have time for one more question.  We’ll
go ahead and take the next caller here. 

And, caller, you can go ahead.  Please make sure that your device is
also unmuted.  

Q    Okay.  Sorry.  Hi, Juan Carlos López from CNN Español.  Thank you
for the call. 

So, there were recent meetings between the U.S. and Venezuela and
Mexico.  There was also meetings between Colombia and Venezuela.  Is
there anything the Venezuelan government, the Maduro government, can do
from here to May 31st to reverse this decision?  Or is this decision a
sign that there is no going forward with them? 

And what happens if these elections go forward?  Do you have any
leverage that you can use against Venezuela?  And on the license that
was — that is not being renewed, since you don’t know figures, does that
license benefit any American companies, or would that only benefit the
Venezuelan government? 

Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I’ll take the — the first part of the
question.  So, we’ve been very committed to engaging with a wide range
of Venezuelan stakeholders to try to move and to help move the political
process forward in Venezuela.  And that includes, at certain junctures,
direct engaging with the Venezuelan authorities.  Certainly, it includes
maintaining a constant level of communication with Venezuelan civil
society, opposition figures, with partner nations in the Western
Hemisphere, and partners more broadly, internationally. 

And so, that is — that is going to remain our focus.

With respect to the current General License 44 that we are discussing,
this was a license that was granted for six months and had an expiration
date.  And so, this was a question that we had to address, essentially,
today and over the past several days and weeks of whether or not the
progress that has taken place in Venezuela merits the renewal of the
license.  

We determined that Venezuela has thus far fallen short of its
commitments in terms of opening up the democratic and electoral process
and, therefore, made the decision not to renew the license and to allow
it to expire, as my colleagues have described.  However, that does not
mean that we are not going to still continue to engage in a constructive
and pragmatic way to try to move the election back towards a better
course. 

And I think there’s some near-term decisions that the Venezuelan
authorities will be taking that we will be watching and monitoring very
carefully.  We also realize that members of the political opposition and
various political parties have decisions of their own to make, and we
are committed to ensuring that we have the best and most relevant
understanding of the political process in Venezuela and that we’re
working with our partners internationally to ensure that the will of the
Venezuelan people can be heard at the ballot box when an election takes
place later this year.  

MODERATOR:  Thank you very much. 

Thanks again to everyone for joining the call today.  Thanks,
\[Operator\], for all your support. 

As a reminder for everyone, this call was on background for attribution
to “senior administration officials.”  The call is embargoed until 3:30
p.m. this afternoon.  We will also be sending an embargoed statement
that the State Department will release later this afternoon.  The
embargo for the statement and this call will both lift at 3:30 p.m. 

Thank you again to our speakers for joining us.  And thanks, everyone. 
Have a great day.  

OPERATOR:  Thank you to all of our speakers, and thank you all in the
audience for joining us today.  Again, this call was off the record. 

The call has concluded, and you may disconnect.
