---
date: '2024-04-22'
modified_time: 2024-04-21 23:37:51-04:00
published_time: 2024-04-22 05:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/04/22/fact-sheet-president-biden-marks-earth-day-2024-with-historic-climate-action/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: President\_Biden Marks Earth Day 2024 with Historic Climate\_\
  Action"
---
 
*President Biden will travel to Prince William Forest Park in Triangle,
VA, a national park system site developed by FDR’s Civilian Conservation
Corps, to announce $7 billion in awards through EPA’s Solar for All
program and unveil major steps to advance the American Climate Corps *

When President Biden took office, he pledged to restore America’s
climate leadership at home and abroad. On his first day in office, the
President signed the United States back into the Paris Agreement. And
each day since, the Biden-Harris Administration has continued to lead
and deliver on the most ambitious climate agenda in history, including
securing the largest ever climate investment and unleashing a clean
energy manufacturing boom that has attracted hundreds of billions in
private sector investment and created over 270,000 new clean energy
jobs. The President’s agenda is also advancing environmental justice and
ensuring that the benefits of climate investments reach overburdened
communities, mobilizing the next generation of clean energy workers
through the American Climate Corps, and delivering historic investments
in our nation’s climate resilience. At the same time, the Administration
is protecting America’s natural wonders, conserving more than 41 million
acres of lands and waters.    
   
**Building on his climate, clean energy, and environmental justice
agenda, President Biden will travel today to Prince William Forest Park
in Triangle, Virginia, to celebrate Earth Day 2024, and highlight his
Administration’s unprecedented progress in tackling the climate crisis,
cutting costs for everyday Americans, and creating good-paying jobs.**  
   
**<u>Expanding Access to Affordable Solar Energy</u>**  
   
The President will announce **$7 billion in grants through the
Environmental Protection Agency’s Solar for All grant competition**, a
key component of the Inflation Reduction Act’s $27 billion Greenhouse
Gas Reduction Fund. Selectees under the Solar for All program will serve
every state and territory in the nation and deliver residential solar
power to over 900,000 households in low-income and disadvantaged
communities, saving overburdened households more than $350 million in
electricity costs annually – approximately $400 per household – and
avoiding more than 30 million metric tons of carbon pollution over the
next 25 years.  
   
The selectees will provide funds to states, territories, Tribes,
municipalities, and nonprofits across the country to develop
long-lasting solar programs that enable low-income and disadvantaged
communities to deploy and benefit from distributed residential solar. In
total, solar projects funded by this program will create nearly 200,000
jobs. The program also advances the President’s [Justice40
Initiative](https://www.whitehouse.gov/environmentaljustice/justice40/),
which set a goal that 40% of the overall benefits of certain federal
climate, clean energy, affordable and sustainable housing, and other
investments flow to disadvantaged communities that are marginalized by
underinvestment and overburdened by pollution.     
   
**<u>Mobilizing the Next Generation of Climate Leaders through the
American Climate Corps</u>**  
   
Joined by future members of President Biden’s American Climate Corps,
including current AmeriCorps members, **President Biden will also
announce several new actions to stand up the American Climate Corps** –
a groundbreaking initiative modeled after FDR’s Civilian Conservation
Corps that will put more than 20,000 young Americans to work fighting
the impacts of climate change today while gaining the skills they need
to join the growing clean energy and climate-resilience workforce of
tomorrow. The President will announce these actions at Prince William
Forest Park, a national park system site developed by FDR’s Civilian
Conservation Corps and stewarded by the Department of the Interior’s
National Park Service.  
  
Nearly a century after FDR established the Civilian Conservation Corps,
President Biden will announce today that Americans can now apply to join
the American Climate Corps through a newly launched website,
ClimateCorps.gov. The website will feature nearly 2,000 positions
located across 36 states, DC, and Puerto Rico. These positions are
hosted by hundreds of organizations advancing clean energy,
conservation, and climate resilience. The website, which is launching in
its beta form, will be regularly updated with new American Climate Corps
positions. Its goal is to make it easy for any American to find work
tackling the climate crisis while gaining the skills necessary for the
clean energy and climate resilience workforce of the future. The first
class of the American Climate Corps will be deployed to communities
across the country in June 2024.  
   
The Biden-Harris Administration is also announcing a new partnership
with the North America’s Building Trades Unions’ nonprofit partner
TradesFutures. Beginning this summer, every American Climate Corps
member will have access to TradesFutures’ industry leading
apprenticeship readiness curriculum during their term of service in the
American Climate Corps, providing members with the opportunity to be
trained in the foundational skills necessary for careers in the clean
energy and climate resilience economy and putting them on a pathway to
good paying, union jobs.  
   
Many American Climate Corps members will also have access to a
streamlined pathway into federal service after a recent update to
modernize the U.S. Office of Personnel Management’s [Pathways
Programs](https://www.opm.gov/news/releases/2024/04/opm-issues-final-rule-updating-pathways-programs-significantly-expands-opportunities-for-early-career-talent/).
The update will expand applicant eligibility for the Recent Graduates
program to include individuals who have completed qualifying career or
technical education service within designated American Climate Corps
programs.  
   
Today, three states – Vermont, New Mexico, and Illinois – are launching
new state-based climate corps programs, building on 10 states that have
already launched successful climate corps programs, demonstrating the
power of skills-based training as a tool to expand pathways into
good-paying jobs. These states will work with the American Climate Corps
as implementing partners to ensure young people across the country are
serving their communities, while participating in paid opportunities and
working on projects to tackle climate change.  
   
Additionally, beginning as a collaboration between the Department of the
Interior, the Energy Communities Interagency Working Group, and
AmeriCorps VISTA, a new interagency public private partnership – Energy
Communities AmeriCorps – will place American Climate Corps members in
priority energy communities across the country. The program will help
support community-led projects, including environmental remediation, in
the places that have powered our nation for generations.  
   
**<u>Conserving America’s Lands, Waters, and Wildlife</u>**  
   
These announcements come on the heels of a series of **major
conservation actions by the Biden-Harris Administration**. Just last
week, the Department of the Interior [published a final
rule](https://www.doi.gov/pressreleases/biden-harris-administration-takes-critical-action-protect-alaska-native-subsistence)
to maximize protections of significant surface resources such as
irreplaceable wildlife habitat for caribou and migratory birds on more
than 13 million acres in the western Arctic while supporting subsistence
uses and needs of Alaska Native communities. This action brings the
number of acres of America’s lands and waters conserved under President
Biden to 41 million. Additionally, the Interior Department [released a
final environmental
analysis](https://www.doi.gov/pressreleases/biden-harris-administration-takes-critical-action-protect-alaska-native-subsistence)
last week recommending denial of a right of way for the Ambler Road
project; the proposed road, which would cross more than 200 miles of
pristine lands, would have significant impacts on caribou and other
subsistence resources upon which more than 60 Alaska Native communities
rely.  
   
In addition to these landmark conservation announcements in Alaska, the
Interior Department released a
[rule](https://www.doi.gov/pressreleases/biden-harris-administration-finalizes-strategy-guide-balanced-management-conservation#:~:text=To%20help%20sustain%20the%20health,animals%3B%20and%20wildlife%20habitats%20on)
to help guide the balanced management of all 245 million acres of
America’s public lands that are overseen by the Bureau of Land
Management. The rule will help to ensure the BLM continues to protect
land health while managing other uses of public lands, such as clean
energy development and outdoor recreation.  
   
**Throughout Earth Week, the Biden-Harris Administration will announce
additional actions to build a stronger, healthier future for all:
Tuesday will focus on helping ensure clean water for all communities;
Wednesday will focus on accelerating America’s clean transportation
future; Thursday will focus on steps to cut pollution from the power
sector while strengthening America’s electricity grid; and Friday will
focus on providing cleaner air and healthier schools for all
children.**  
   
**<u>Biden-Harris Administration’s Top Climate Accomplishments</u>**  
  
**Deploying Clean, Affordable Electricity and Strengthening America’s
Power Grid – **  
President Biden has secured unprecedented investments in a clean power
sector, unleashing a boom in American solar, wind, battery storage, and
other clean energy technologies that are creating good-paying jobs and
saving families money on utility bills. Through the [Inflation Reduction
Act and Bipartisan Infrastructure
Law](https://www.energy.gov/policy/articles/investing-american-energy-significant-impacts-inflation-reduction-act-and),
U.S. solar generation is projected to increase up to eight-fold and wind
generation is projected to triple by 2030. President Biden has
jumpstarted the [U.S. offshore wind
industry](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/03/29/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-continues-to-advance-american-offshore-wind-opportunities/),
with 10 gigawatts of commercial-scale projects now approved, enough to
power nearly four million homes, including two projects that are already
delivering power to the grid and others with construction underway. The
President’s Investing in America agenda is also supporting [transmission
buildout and other power grid
upgrades](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/10/30/fact-sheetbiden-harris-administration-announces-historic-investment-to-bolster-nations-electric-grid-infrastructure-cut-energy-costs-for-families-and-create-good-paying-jobs/),
deployment of [distributed energy resources in disadvantaged
communities](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/04/20/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-creates-cost-saving-clean-energy-opportunities-to-combat-climate-crisis/),
investments in clean electricity across [rural
America](https://www.usda.gov/media/press-releases/2023/05/16/biden-harris-administration-makes-historic-11-billion-investment),
and [American manufacturing of clean energy
technologies](https://www.energy.gov/invest) – all in pursuit of the
President’s goal of 100% clean electricity by 2035. Through the
President’s [Federal Sustainability
Plan](https://www.sustainability.gov/federalsustainabilityplan/index.html),
the U.S. Government is leading by example and has already signed
agreements to [provide federal facilities in 18
states](https://www.gsa.gov/about-us/newsroom/news-releases/bidenharris-administration-announces-agreement-to-supply-federal-facilities-in-parts-of-texas-and-new-mexico-with-100-carbon-pollutionfree-electricity-04172024)
with 100% carbon pollution-free electricity by 2030.  
   
And thanks to the Inflation Reduction Act, clean energy project
developers get access to expanded tax incentives if they pay workers
prevailing wages and employ registered apprentices, helping make more
clean energy jobs good-paying and union jobs.  
   
**Bolstering Climate Resilience and Adaptation –** President Biden’s
Investing in America agenda is [building
communities](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/09/28/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-hosts-first-ever-white-house-climate-resilience-summit-and-releases-national-climate-resilience-framework/)
that are not only resilient to the impacts of the climate crisis, but
also safer, more equitable, and economically stronger. To support this
vision, the President [secured more than $50
billion](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/06/19/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-makes-historic-investments-to-build-community-climate-resilience/)
for climate resilience and adaptation through the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law and Inflation Reduction Act and released the first
ever [National Climate Resilience
Framework](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/09/National-Climate-Resilience-Framework-FINAL.pdf).
The President’s investments are
[upgrading](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=e64acc8cc5&e=ebcdb14f7c)
aging roads and bridges, including critical evacuation routes, providing
[tax
credits](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=150e46d277&e=ebcdb14f7c)
for families to weatherize their homes,
[restoring](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=33f8cd96dd&e=ebcdb14f7c)
critical waterways, forests, and urban greenspaces, supporting
[resilient and climate-smart
agriculture](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=63c3141b98&e=ebcdb14f7c),
bolstering [water
infrastructure](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=3fee1441b0&e=ebcdb14f7c)
and drought resilience across the American West, [protecting federal
assets from future flood
risk](https://www.whitehouse.gov/ceq/news-updates/2024/04/11/a-new-tool-to-help-plan-for-and-protect-against-floods/),
[modernizing our electric
grid](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=3b3d5549c0&e=ebcdb14f7c),
and funding research to develop the latest [energy-storage
technologies](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=001817a525&e=ebcdb14f7c)
here in America.  
   
**Accelerating a Clean Transportation Future –** President Biden is
taking a whole-of-government approach to position the U.S. as a global
leader in innovative and sustainable transportation.  The
Administration’s [National Blueprint for Transportation
Decarbonization](https://www.transportation.gov/priorities/climate-and-sustainability/us-national-blueprint-transportation-decarbonization)
is a landmark strategy for cutting all greenhouse gas emissions from the
U.S. transportation sector by 2050. The President’s Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law and Inflation Reduction Act invest tens of billions
to decarbonize
[shipping](https://www.epa.gov/ports-initiative/cleanports),
[trucking](https://www.epa.gov/inflation-reduction-act/clean-heavy-duty-vehicle-program),
[transit](https://www.transit.dot.gov/lowno),
[rail](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/11/06/fact-sheet-president-biden-advances-vision-for-world-class-passenger-rail-by-delivering-billions-in-new-funding/#:~:text=Last%20month%2C%20FRA%20announced%20more,Consolidated%20Rail%20Infrastructure%20and%20Safety),
and
[aviation](https://www.irs.gov/credits-deductions/businesses/sustainable-aviation-fuel-credit),
all while making communities more
[walkable](https://www.transportation.gov/grants/SS4A),
[bikeable](https://www.fhwa.dot.gov/bipartisan-infrastructure-law/ta.cfm),
and
[connected](https://www.transportation.gov/grants/rcnprogram/about-rcp).
And through the President’s [Federal Sustainability
Plan](https://www.sustainability.gov/federalsustainabilityplan/fleet.html),
the federal government has ordered [over 58,000 zero-emission
vehicles](https://www.gsa.gov/about-us/newsroom/news-releases/general-services-administration-announces-25-million-for-electric-vehicle-charging-ports-as-part-of-president-bidens-investing-in-america-agenda-03262024)
and has begun installing more than 25,000 charging ports, adding to the
8,000 already in use across the government.  
   
In addition, the President
[rallied](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/08/05/fact-sheet-president-biden-announces-steps-to-drive-american-leadership-forward-on-clean-cars-and-trucks/)
automakers and autoworkers around a historic goal of having electric
vehicles (EVs) account for at least 50% of new passenger vehicles sold
by 2030. To support this goal while driving down consumer costs, the
Administration secured [tax
credits](https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/jy1868) that
reduce the cost of new or used clean vehicles by thousands of dollars
directly at the dealership and is
[investing](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/01/19/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-new-actions-to-cut-electric-vehicle-costs-for-americans-and-continue-building-out-a-convenient-reliable-made-in-america-ev-charging-network/)
$7.5 billion into building out a national EV charging network. Since
President Biden took office, EV sales have quadrupled, prices have come
down by more than 20%, the number of charging stations has grown by over
80% – putting us on track to deploy 500,000 chargers by 2026 – and the
U.S. auto industry has added more than 100,000 jobs. Driven by
Biden-Harris Administration policies, the sector is experiencing a
manufacturing renaissance with more than $160 billion of investments in
EVs, batteries, and their supply chains. And just last month, the
Environmental Protection Agency finalized the [strongest-ever vehicle
emission
standards](https://www.epa.gov/regulations-emissions-vehicles-and-engines/final-rule-multi-pollutant-emissions-standards-model)
for light, medium, and heavy-duty vehicles.  
   
**Cutting Energy Costs and Pollution at Homes, Schools, and in
Communities –** Reducing building emissions through efficiency
improvements and electrification lowers energy bills for families,
improves resiliency, and creates good-paying jobs. The President has
created new programs to save American families on their energy bills
through the Department of Energy’s [Home Energy
Rebates](https://www.energy.gov/articles/biden-harris-administration-announces-state-and-tribe-allocations-home-energy-rebate),
the Department of Housing and Urban Development’s [Green and Resilient
Retrofit
Program](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=9cbfb4b178&e=ebcdb14f7c),
and Treasury’s [Home Energy Tax
Credits](https://www.irs.gov/credits-deductions/energy-efficient-home-improvement-credit).
The Biden-Harris Administration is also [strengthening energy efficiency
standards](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/12/19/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-takes-more-than-100-actions-in-2022-to-strengthen-energy-efficiency-standards-and-save-families-money/)
to save households and businesses money, with standards updated by DOE
for dozens of appliances expected to provide nearly [$1 trillion in
consumer
savings](https://www.energy.gov/articles/doe-finalizes-efficiency-standards-residential-refrigerators-and-freezers-closing-out)
over 30 years, while also reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 2.5
billion metric tons – equivalent to the emissions of 18 million
gas-powered cars over 30 years. By invoking emergency authority, the
President is [expanding domestic heat pump
manufacturing](https://www.energy.gov/articles/biden-harris-administration-announces-63-million-accelerate-electric-heat-pump),
which will cut the costs of heat pumps. To ensure that the 10 million
new homes that will be built by 2030 are efficient and resilient,
President Biden’s [National Initiative to Advance Building
Codes](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=feb19084cf&e=ebcdb14f7c)
is accelerating adoption of modern building codes that protect people
from extreme-weather events and help contribute to avoiding an estimated
[$1.6
billion](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=1ff2f9ab6a&e=ebcdb14f7c)
a year in damages.  
  
**Revitalizing American Manufacturing for the Clean Economy
–** President Biden’s Investing in America agenda has helped catalyze
historic manufacturing growth, with factories opening across the nation.
To date, the private sector has announced nearly $700 billion in
investments in manufacturing and clean energy. The President’s agenda is
helping to make U.S. manufacturing the cleanest and most competitive in
the world. The Inflation Reduction Act is investing more than [$6
billion](https://www.energy.gov/oced/industrial-demonstrations-program-0)
to slash climate pollution and support worker and community health at
U.S. factories producing the steel, aluminum, cement, and other
materials that form the backbone of our economy. To further support U.S.
industrial competitiveness, the Biden Administration’s landmark [Buy
Clean](https://www.sustainability.gov/buyclean/) initiative is
leveraging the government’s sway as the largest purchaser on Earth to
spur demand for low-emissions manufacturing and construction products.  
   
**Repowering Energy** **Communities** – The Biden-Harris Administration
is deploying programs to build capacity and spur economic development in
the [communities that powered our
nation](https://energycommunities.gov/) for generations, such as the
clean manufacturing investments in the [Qualifying Advanced Energy
Project Credit (48C)
Program](https://www.energy.gov/infrastructure/qualifying-advanced-energy-project-credit-48c-program)
and DOE’s [Advanced Energy Manufacturing and Recycling Grants
Program](https://www.energy.gov/mesc/advanced-energy-manufacturing-and-recycling-grants),
in addition to ARC’s [Partnerships for Opportunity and Workforce and
Economic Revitalization (POWER)
Initiative](https://www.arc.gov/grants-and-opportunities/power/) and
EDA’s [Assistance to Energy Transition
Communities](https://www.eda.gov/news/blog/2023/06/02/eda-fuels-coal-energy-communities-power-american-growth).
In addition, new bonus tax credits in President Biden’s Inflation
Reduction Act are incentivizing clean energy companies to expand access
to good-paying jobs in energy communities across the nation.  
  
**Advancing Environmental Justice – ** Since Day One, the Biden-Harris
Administration has prioritized a whole-of-government approach to
environmental justice. The President signed a [historic Executive
Order](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/04/21/fact-sheet-president-biden-signs-executive-order-to-revitalize-our-nations-commitment-to-environmental-justice-for-all/)
that calls on the federal government to bring clean energy and healthy
environments to all and mitigate harm to those who have suffered from
pollution and environmental burdens like climate change. Through the
[Justice40
Initiative](https://www.whitehouse.gov/environmentaljustice/justice40/),
over 500 programs across 19 federal agencies are being reimagined and
transformed to maximize the benefits of President Biden’s unprecedented
investments – from clean energy projects to floodwater protections to
wastewater infrastructure – to communities that need them most. At the
same time, the Administration is taking unprecedented action to protect
communities from [PFAS
pollution](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/04/10/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-takes-critical-action-to-protect-communities-from-pfas-pollution-in-drinking-water/),
[accelerate Superfund and brownfield
cleanups](https://www.epa.gov/newsreleases/biden-harris-administration-announces-over-1-billion-start-new-cleanup-projects-and),
[tighten
standards](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/03/14/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-takes-action-to-protect-communities-from-dangers-of-ethylene-oxide-pollution-and/)
for hazardous air pollutants, and [enhance air quality
enforcement](https://www.epa.gov/enforcement/national-enforcement-and-compliance-initiatives).  
   
**Delivering Clean Water and Replacing Lead Pipes** – President Biden
and Vice President Harris are fighting to ensure a future where every
American has access to clean, safe water. The President’s Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law invests over $50 billion in upgrading the nation’s
water infrastructure – the largest investment in clean water in American
history. This funding is going towards expanding access to clean
drinking water, replacing lead pipes, improving wastewater and
sanitation infrastructure, and [removing PFAS pollution in
water](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/04/10/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-takes-critical-action-to-protect-communities-from-pfas-pollution-in-drinking-water/).
[President Biden has also made a historic
commitment](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/11/30/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-new-action-to-protect-communities-from-lead-exposure/)
to replace every toxic lead pipe in the country within a decade,
protecting families from lead poisoning that can irreversibly harm brain
development in children. Last year, the Environmental Protection Agency
issued proposed improvements to the [Lead and Copper
Rule](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/11/30/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-new-action-to-protect-communities-from-lead-exposure/) that
would require water systems to rapidly replace lead service lines.  
  
**Conserving our Lands and Waters –**The Biden-Harris Administration has
taken historic action to conserve and restore America’s lands and
waters, including signing an [Executive
Order](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/01/27/executive-order-on-tackling-the-climate-crisis-at-home-and-abroad/)
to set the first-ever national conservation goal to conserve at least
30% of U.S. lands and waters by 2030 through the [America the Beautiful
Initiative](https://www.whitehouse.gov/ceq/news-updates/2021/05/06/biden-harris-administration-outlines-america-the-beautiful-initiative/).
Last week the Administration launched Conservation.gov and the American
Conservation and Stewardship Atlas, a new website and data portal that
will help connect people with information, tools, resources, and
opportunities to support land and water conservation projects in
communities across the country. The Administration has already protected
more than 41 million acres of lands and waters, and President Biden is
on track to conserve more lands and waters than any President in
history. This includes establishing [five new national
monuments](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/08/08/fact-sheet-president-biden-designates-baaj-nwaavjo-itah-kukveni-ancestral-footprints-of-the-grand-canyon-national-monument/#:~:text=Gila%20Cliff%20Dwellings.-,The%20Baaj%20Nwaavjo%20I'tah%20Kukveni%20%E2%80%93%20Ancestral%20Footprints%20of%20the,Monument%20in%20Texas%20and%20Avi)
and [restoring protections for three
more](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/03/21/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-takes-new-action-to-conserve-and-restore-americas-lands-and-waters/#:~:text=During%20his%20first%20year%20in,Canyons%20and%20Seamounts%20National%20Monuments.);
creating [four new national wildlife
refuges](https://www.doi.gov/pressreleases/interior-department-establishes-everglades-gulf-conservation-area-conserve-habitat)
and [expanding five
more](https://www.doi.gov/pressreleases/interior-department-announces-expansion-four-national-wildlife-refuges-conserve);
protecting the [Boundary Waters of
Minnesota](https://www.doi.gov/pressreleases/biden-harris-administration-protects-boundary-waters-area-watershed),
the nation’s most visited wilderness area; safeguarding [Bristol
Bay](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/05/11/remarks-by-president-biden-on-the-protection-of-bristol-bay-and-national-conservation/)
in southwest Alaska; and withdrawing [Chaco
Canyon](https://www.doi.gov/pressreleases/biden-harris-administration-protects-chaco-region-tribal-cultural-sites-development)
in New Mexico and [Thompson
Divide](https://www.doi.gov/pressreleases/biden-harris-administration-finalizes-protections-thompson-divide)
in Colorado from further oil and gas leasing to protect thousands of
sacred sites and pristine lands.  
  
To conserve and steward old growth forests,
USDA [announced](https://www.fs.usda.gov/about-agency/newsroom/releases/usda-proposes-first-its-kind-national-forest-plan-amendment-conserve)
a proposal to amend 128 forest land management plans to conserve and
steward old-growth forest conditions on national forests and grasslands
nationwide. This builds upon the Biden-Harris Administration’s
protection of Tongass National Forest, the largest intact temperate
rainforest in the world. The Administration is also taking continued
action to protect and conserve our nation’s rivers and watersheds for
the people and communities that depend on them, protecting the stability
and sustainability of the [Colorado River
Basin](https://www.doi.gov/pressreleases/biden-harris-administration-announces-next-steps-protect-stability-and-sustainability)
in the face of an ongoing megadrought, and beyond. This includes taking
[historic
action](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/09/27/fact-sheet-president-biden-takes-action-to-restore-healthy-and-abundant-wild-salmon-and-steelhead-in-the-columbia-river-basin/)
to restore healthy and abundant wild salmon and steelhead in the
Columbia River Basin, part of the Biden-Harris Administration’s
unprecedented commitment to honor the United States’ obligations to
Tribal Nations.  
   
**Investing in Climate-Smart Agriculture and Forestry –** President
Biden’s Investing in America agenda is supporting America’s farmers,
ranchers, and forest landowners, who play a critical role in addressing
the climate crisis through the deployment of climate-smart practices and
systems. Under the Biden-Harris Administration, USDA has supported
80,000 farms in implementing climate-smart practices on over 75 million
acres. In Fiscal Year 2023, USDA made [record investments in private
lands
conservation](https://www.nrcs.usda.gov/news/biden-harris-administration-makes-record-investment-in-private-lands-conservation-as-part-of),
totaling nearly $3 billion in financial assistance to producers.
 Leveraging both climate impact and economic opportunities, the
Administration is creating new market opportunities through the
groundbreaking [Partnerships for Climate-Smart
Commodities](https://www.usda.gov/climate-solutions/climate-smart-commodities)
and efforts that are part of [the Sustainable Aviation Fuel (SAF) Grand
Challenge](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/09/09/fact-sheet-biden-administration-advances-the-future-of-sustainable-fuels-in-american-aviation/).  
   
**Rallying Leaders of the World’s Largest Economies to Raise Global
Climate Ambition –**President Biden has restored America’s climate
leadership at home and abroad. Under his leadership, the Administration
is [securing commitments from more than 155 countries to reduce methane
emissions](https://www.whitehouse.gov/climate/#:~:text=Leveraging%20Domestic%20Ambition%20to%20Rally%20Global%20Peers) by
at least 30 percent by 2030; successfully galvanizing other countries at
COP28 to commit, for the first time, to transition away from unabated
fossil fuels, stop building new unabated coal capacity globally, and
triple renewable energy globally by 2030 and nuclear energy by 2050;
launching a new Clean Energy Supply Chain Collaborative to work with
international partners to diversify supply chains that are critical to a
clean and secure energy transition; mobilizing other governments
to follow the U.S. lead and commit to achieve net-zero government
emissions by 2050 through a new [Net-Zero Government
Initiative](https://www.sustainability.gov/federalsustainabilityplan/net-zero-initiative.html);
and becoming a world leader in innovative debt-for-nature swaps that
have helped countries restructure over $2 billion in debt and unlock
hundreds of millions of new financing for nature and climate.

   
\###
