---
date: '2024-04-08'
modified_time: 2024-04-09 14:54:18-04:00
published_time: 2024-04-08 20:45:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/04/08/fact-sheet-vice-president-kamala-harris-launches-call-to-action-to-bring-the-benefits-of-space-to-communities-across-america/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Vice President Kamala\_Harris Launches Call to Action to Bring\
  \ the Benefits of Space to Communities Across\_America"
---
 
*Federal agencies and private sector companies announce additional
commitments to build awareness of the benefits of space – including the
use of space-based data to address the climate crisis – and increase
economic opportunities from space activity*

Under Vice President Kamala Harris’s leadership of the National Space
Council, the U.S. is continuing to steward the responsible and
sustainable use of space to protect our national security interests,
address the climate crisis, foster a thriving commercial space sector,
and more. In 2022, the Vice President announced commitments [to inspire,
prepare, and
employ](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/09/09/fact-sheet-vice-president-harris-announces-commitments-to-inspire-prepare-and-employ-the-space-workforce/)
the space workforce and ensure that the U.S.’ future in space remains
strong. Today, the Vice President issued a call to action for both the
private and public sectors to bring the benefits of space to communities
across our Nation. As part of this call to action private and public
organizations and institutions are announcing commitments to help
achieve that aim.

*<u>Find Your Place in Space Week</u>*

Space is a growing industry that touches nearly every sector — from
health care and climate, to banking, agriculture, and infrastructure.
For America, space is a source of strength, inspiration, and innovation.
Space activities have become critical to our way of life and provide
numerous benefits to society. That’s why more than 100 organizations are
coming together  to support the first-ever [Find Your Place in Space
Week](https://www.nasa.gov/spaceweek/), which includes more than 200
events across all 50 states, Puerto Rico, and Washington, D.C.. Each
event will provide opportunities for people to learn about space.  

*<u>Space4All</u>*

To strengthen U.S. space collaboration and increase public engagement,
the U.S. Department of Education (ED), Women in Aerospace (WIA),
American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics (AIAA), Club for the
Future, and the Space Foundation are collaborating through a
Private-Public-Partnership with more than 150 companies to develop
Space4All. This is a five-year awareness campaign to raise public
understanding of the benefits of space for life on Earth. This campaign
will convey the importance of everyone participating in and benefiting
from the space enterprise and increase public awareness of the
opportunities and pathways to success in space and STEM-related
education and careers. For more information contact <info@Space4All.us>.

*<u>Space Workforce Coalition</u>*

In September 2022, Vice President Harris announced a newly formed
coalition of space organizations that are working together to meet the
rising demand for a skilled technical workforce in the U.S. space
industry. The coalition – launched in Florida, the Louisiana and
Mississippi Gulf Coast, and Southern California – has expanded to
include nearly 40 companies, organizations, and academic institutions
across the federal, state, regional, and local levels. Outcomes from the
coalition include increasing the number of space-related registered
apprenticeships in Southern California and the development of a Space
Academy for Florida’s high school students and adult learners,
graduating Aerospace Technicians in the New Orleans region. The newest
states to join the coalition include Colorado and Alabama. For more
information, contact <info@spaceworkforcecoalition.org>.

*<u>SpaceTechConnect</u>*

The White House Initiative on Historically Black Colleges and
Universities (HBCU) is creating the Executive HBCU Space Lab. This is an
innovative collaboration between HBCUs, the Federal government, and
industry partners. In May, The Lab will release SpaceTechConnect, a free
platform to increase HBCU engagement in space-related federal
contracting. The following HBCUs, organizations, and companies have
already joined the Lab: The Equity Space Alliance, Alabama A&M
University, Bowie State University, Florida A&M University, Morehouse
School of Medicine, Morgan State University, Thurgood Marshall College
Fund, Tuskegee University, Tougaloo College Research and Development
Foundation, UNCF, University of the District of Columbia, Axiom Space,
Blue Origin, The Boeing Company, Deloitte, Lockheed Martin Corporation,
Sierra Space, United Launch Alliance, the Department of Defense (DoD),
the Department of Energy, the Federal Aviation Administration, the
General Services Administration, the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration (NASA), and the Small Business Administration. For more
information, contact <OSHWHI-HBCU@ed.gov>.

*<u>Earthrise Initiative</u>*

The Earthrise Initiative will provide educators with a collection of
Earth and climate science resources each month. These resources will
come from across the federal government. Earthrise was launched by NASA,
the Environmental Protection Agency, the Department of Defense, the
National Institutes of Health, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Agency, the Smithsonian Science Education Center, the U.S. Department of
Agriculture, the Department of Education, the U.S. Geological Survey,
and the Global Learning and Observations to Benefit the Environment
(GLOBE) Program. To learn more about Earthrise and sign-up for this
monthly engagement, visit
[nasa.gov/stem-content/earthrise/](https://www.nasa.gov/stem-content/earthrise/).

*<u>Milo Mission Academy for Climate Intelligence and Earth Science</u>*

The Milo Institute at Arizona State University and the Puerto Rico
Science, Technology, & Research Trust (PRST) are establishing the Milo
Mission Academy for Climate Intelligence and Earth Science. The academy
will begin in fall 2024 and will equip students with expertise in remote
sensing in order to create cutting-edge applications that use satellite
data to address challenges on Earth. The applications will play a
pivotal role in monitoring natural resources and land use within island
communities to safeguard their wellbeing and sustainability. For more
information, contact <amaldonado@prsciencetrust.org>.

*<u>International Space Station and Rosie Riveters Support Space STEM
Education for Girls</u>*

The International Space Station National Laboratory is partnering with
Rosie Riveters – a national STEM non-profit that is focused on engaging
and inspiring girls – to bring STEM opportunities to girls. With a
shared commitment to diversifying the STEM workforce and equipping the
next generation of space explorers, this collaboration will help young
girls develop the skills they need to impact the future of space. For
more information, contact: <info@rosieriveters.com>.

**Call to Action Focus Areas**

This call to action is only one component of the Vice President’s
strategy to increase the shared benefits of space discovery and
exploration, maintain a robust U.S. space enterprise, and preserve space
for current and future generations. It aims to generate new
public-private-partnerships and commitments from businesses and social
enterprises to bring more of space’s benefits to Earth in three focus
areas. These focus areas have an emphasis on equity and include:

-   **Space STEM Education and Workforce Development** – These
    commitments expand access to space and STEM education work-based
    learning opportunities. This includes apprenticeships and
    internships for current and future generations of scientists,
    welders, machinists, and engineers – including positions that
    require college degrees, those that do not require college degrees,
    and those that require security clearances in support of the [United
    States Space Priorities
    Framework](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/12/united-states-space-priorities-framework-_-december-1-2021.pdf).
-   **Address the Climate Crisis** – These commitments develop and scale
    climate services that use space-based data to strengthen decision
    making as a nation. They also enable businesses, communities, and
    individuals to reduce climate risk and increase resilience in
    support of the [Administration’s goal to reduce U.S. greenhouse gas
    emissions by
    2030](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/04/22/fact-sheet-president-biden-sets-2030-greenhouse-gas-pollution-reduction-target-aimed-at-creating-good-paying-union-jobs-and-securing-u-s-leadership-on-clean-energy-technologies/%5d.).

<!-- -->

-   **Expand Economic Opportunity Through Small Businesses –** These
    commitments increase private sector investments in small businesses,
    minority-owned businesses, women-owned businesses, and disadvantaged
    businesses in the nation’s commercial space sector. This includes
    providing technical assistance to obtain commercial sector
    certifications and market access to business-to-business contracting
    in support of the Administrations’ goal to increase the share of
    federal contracting dollars going to small businesses that are owned
    and controlled by [socially and economically disadvantaged
    individuals to 15% by Fiscal Year
    2025](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/01/25/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-new-actions-to-expand-small-business-access-to-federal-contracts/).

**How to Join the Call to Action**

The National Space Council will manage follow-up steps to today’s call
to action.  Interested parties can get involved by contacting the
National Space Council at <Contact.NSpC@ovp.eop.gov>.
