---
date: '2024-04-05'
modified_time: 2024-04-05 15:21:31-04:00
published_time: 2024-04-05 15:21:30-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/04/05/what-they-are-saying-biden-harris-administration-announces-historic-20-billion-in-awards-to-expand-access-to-clean-energy-and-climate-solutions-and-lower-energy-costs-for-communities-across-the-nati/
tags: statements-releases
title: "WHAT THEY ARE SAYING: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Announces Historic\
  \ $20 Billion in Awards to Expand Access to Clean Energy and Climate Solutions and\
  \ Lower Energy Costs for Communities Across the\_Nation"
---
 
Yesterday, as part of President Biden’s historic climate agenda, Vice
President Kamala Harris and Environmental Protection Agency
Administrator Michael Regan [announced $20 billion in awards to expand
access to clean
energy](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/04/04/biden-harris-administration-announces-historic-20-billion-in-awards-to-expand-access-to-clean-energy-and-climate-solutions-and-lower-energy-costs-for-communities-across-the-nation/)
and climate solutions and lower energy costs for communities across the
nation. This investment, made possible by President Biden’s Inflation
Reduction Act, will stand up a first-of-its-kind national network that
will finance tens of thousands of climate and clean energy projects
across the country, especially in low-income and disadvantaged
communities.

*Leaders from across the country praised the announcement. Here’s what
they’re saying:*

**<u>Environmental Leaders</u>**

**Ben Jealous, Executive Director, Sierra Club:** “Today’s announcement
is a game-changer in ensuring meaningful clean energy and clean
technology investments are possible in every community in America —
particularly in low-income communities, communities of color, and areas
that far too often are overlooked. By making this kind of capital
available, the Biden-Harris administration is showing that a clean
energy future that puts people first is a reality that is within our
grasp. This is another major victory for President Biden’s Inflation
Reduction Act and one of the many reasons the Sierra Club fought so hard
to make this law a reality. I thank Vice President Harris and
Administrator Regan for their continued work in implementing this
landmark law.”
\[[Statement](https://www.sierraclub.org/press-releases/2024/04/sierra-club-celebrates-20-billion-clean-technology-financing-made-possible),
04/04/2024\]

**Margie Alt, Director, Climate Action Campaign**: “We congratulate the
EPA and today’s awardees. These funds from the Greenhouse Gas Reduction
Fund (GGRF) will be put to work across the country to fight climate
change in our communities, including in our own backyards. This program
will provide funding for important projects to combat climate change,
reduce pollution, help accelerate our transition to a clean energy
economy, and create new jobs. The Greenhouse Gas Reduction Fund is an
example of the impactful, forward-thinking investing that Americans want
and that President Biden, EPA Administrator Michael Regan, and the
Democrats in Congress have delivered. This is smart investing in people
who are close to the problems and can implement appropriate solutions
that cut costs, save energy, and propel us toward a clean energy
future.”
\[[Statement](https://www.actonclimate.com/post/climate-action-campaign-on-greenhouse-gas-reduction-fund-awardee-announcement/),
04/04/2024\]

**Manish Bapna, President and CEO, Natural Resources Defense Council:**
“This is an unprecedented investment in communities that have been
overlooked for far too long. Neighborhoods and regions around the
country are primed to see significant benefits; from new jobs and
business growth to notable energy savings, putting money back in the
pockets of hard-working people’. It’s a sizeable down payment on cleaner
air, improved livelihoods and a safer climate.”
\[[Statement](https://www.nrdc.org/press-releases/epa-issues-awards-crucial-clean-energy-finance-program),
04/04/2024\]

**Maite Arce, President and CEO, Hispanic Access Foundation:**
“Addressing air quality is a matter of public health and economic
strength. Recent decades have seen a rise in pollutants, affecting all
Americans, with profound impacts on Latino communities facing
socioeconomic challenges. The deterioration of air quality over the last
century presents undeniable challenges, impacting public health, and
economic stability. These issues hit hardest in vulnerable communities,
including many where industry and agriculture, vital sectors of our
economy, are integral. In terms of health, children, seniors and people
with chronic illnesses are suffering from health conditions, such as
heart disease, aggravated asthma and decreased lung function exacerbated
by polluted air. Economically, Latinos are often faced with financial
strain as they try to address these health conditions at clinics and
hospitals.”
\[[Statement](https://hispanicaccess.org/news-resources/news-releases/item/3021-hispanic-access-statement-on-the-greenhouse-gas-reduction-fund),
04/04/2024\]

**Trevor Higgins, Senior Vice President for Energy and Environment,
Center for American Progress: “**The administration today is standing up
major new investment programs to make climate and clean energy projects
a reality for communities across the country. These awards offer
dedicated funding for the underserved and low-income communities that
need it most. House Republicans voted countless times in a futile
attempt to block this funding from being put to good use, but the Biden
administration has now moved this vital program beyond the reach of
partisan politics. It will fund programs that have the flexibility and
permanence to deliver on the benefits of the clean energy economy for
years and years to come.”
\[[Statement](https://www.americanprogress.org/press/statement-caps-trevor-higgins-lauds-announcement-of-greenhouse-gas-reduction-fund/),
04/04/2024\]

**Matthew Davis, Vice President of Federal Policy, League of
Conservation Voters:** “The Biden-Harris administration is continuing to
deliver on their promise to accelerate our country’s progress towards a
clean energy future and ensure that a healthier, more prosperous future
benefits communities previously left out…these investments from the
historic Inflation Reduction Act will jumpstart local projects and help
cut energy costs for families, create clean energy jobs, and decrease
pollution in communities disproportionately impacted by the climate
crisis and volatile fossil fuel prices. We look forward to these
investments catalyzing building energy efficiency and clean energy
projects on the ground and are thrilled that over half of these projects
will go to historically excluded communities, including communities of
color, communities with low wealth, and rural communities.”
\[[Statement](https://www.lcv.org/media-center/lcv-chispa-and-nclcv-applaud-biden-harris-announcement-of-20b-for-clean-energy-projects-in-historically-excluded-communities/),
04/04/2024\]

**LaTricea D. Adams, Founder, CEO, and President, Young, Gifted & Green,
and White House Environmental Justice Advisory Council Appointee:**
“This announcement is a game-changer for communities that have
historically been left behind and burdened by pollution. By targeting
low-income and disadvantaged communities, this funding will not only
reduce harmful climate pollution but also improve air quality, lower
energy costs, and create good-paying jobs. It is a testament to the
Biden-Harris Administration’s commitment to equity and environmental
justice.”
\[[Statement](https://www.younggiftedgreen.org/young-gifted-green-celebrates-biden-harris-administrations-historic-20-billion-investment-in-clean-energy-and-climate-solutions/),
04/04/2024\]

**Estefany Carrasco González, Senior Director, Chispa:** “Chispa is
excited to welcome the Greenhouse Gas Reduction Fund investments. These
will address critically needed green energy funding for our communities
of color that need it most, resulting in cleaner air, lower energy costs
for all, and more local jobs. With local improvements such as
community-owned solar, small business loans for local employers to
electrify their vehicles, and home loans for families to improve their
home’s comfort and energy efficiency, we’re starting to see an inclusive
green energy future for all as a reality.”
\[[Statement](https://www.lcv.org/media-center/lcv-chispa-and-nclcv-applaud-biden-harris-announcement-of-20b-for-clean-energy-projects-in-historically-excluded-communities/),
04/04/2024\]

**Rev. Susan Hendershot, President, Interfaith Power & Light:** “The
Greenhouse Gas Reduction Fund (GGRF), established by the
Administration’s Inflation Reduction Act, will provide critical funding
to create jobs, reduce pollution, and lower energy costs for families.
This funding represents an important step forward toward a more
equitable clean energy future by ensuring that two-thirds of this
funding is directed to communities that have historically struggled to
gain access to capital. Interfaith Power & Light celebrates today’s
announcement and the efforts by the Administration and the Environmental
Protection Agency (EPA) to invest in protecting our communities and our
Sacred Earth.” \[Statement, 04/04/2024\]

**Rev. Dr.** **Ambrose Carroll, Founder, Green the Church:** “We
celebrate the announcement of the awardees for the Greenhouse Gas
Reduction Fund (GGRF). Our communities across the country are going to
receive an infusion of investments helping to accelerate the transition
to clean energy in their homes, towns, and businesses, fueling economic
opportunity and job creation, and revitalizing communities across the
country, especially in places that have long been neglected. The GGRF
builds on the successful track records of green and community-based
lenders across the country and will provide federal funding to help
scale projects that push us closer to a pollution-free nation. This
announcement is especially important for African American congregations
and communities historically overburdened by pollution. The Greenhouse
Gas Reduction Fund is one way the Biden administration is meeting its
commitment to the Justice40 principles, and Green the Church is grateful
to the EPA for such action!” \[Statement, 04/04/2024\]

**Reed Hundt, CEO and Co-Founder, Coalition for Green Capital**: “The
EPA’s awards of $20 billion compose the largest single capitalization of
green banks in any country in the world. The United States now can lead
all nations in showing how public-private investment can deliver cheap
clean power faster than anyone has predicted – and can focus this new
investment primarily on transforming the power platform in every
low-income and disadvantaged community. With our pipeline of more than
$30 billion in demand for public capital, we at CGC look forward to
partnering with the agency, with other award winners, and with all other
community lenders that either did not apply for funds or were not
selected. Five billion dollars in capitalization is a really good
start.”
\[[Statement](https://coalitionforgreencapital.com/epa-selects-coalition-for-green-capital-for-an-award-of-5-billion-to-establish-national-green-bank/),
04/04/2024\]

**Andrew Reagan, Executive Director, Clean Energy for America:** “The
Biden Administration is cutting pollution and bringing new jobs and
consumer savings right where it’s needed most, thanks to today’s
announcement. Delivering on their commitments, $14 billion dollars is
going to low-income and disadvantaged communities, to help them make the
switch to cost-saving clean energy. It’s more proof that we can and must
decarbonize our economy in an equitable way that benefits all Americans.
The Biden administration’s continued commitment to clean energy will
help communities across the country. The Inflation Reduction Act will
continue to advance local climate solutions. And today’s announcement
will cut carbon pollution, save people money, and create good-paying
clean energy jobs nationwide.”
\[[Statement](https://www.ceforamerica.org/news/clean-energy-for-americas-statement-on-historic-greenhouse-gas-fund-investment),
04/04/2024\]

**Kate Wright, Executive Director, Climate Mayors:** “Equitable access
to clean and affordable energy is foundational to a sustainable future
for cities. This unique fund will allow cities to fully leverage
community and private sector partnerships to make historic strides in
creating green jobs, reducing air pollution and lowering energy bills
for residents. We thank the Biden Administration for making that a
possibility, and providing an additional tool to help our Mayors
continue to lead the way towards a brighter future.’”
\[[Statement](https://climatemayors.org/statement-ggrf/), 04/04/2024\]

**Christian Brock, CEO, Elected Officials to Protect America:** “No one
should have to suffer the injustice of living on the frontlines of the
climate crisis. The Inflation Reduction Act’s Greenhouse Gas Reduction
Fund (GGRF) recognizes the power of federal funding to ensure worthy
projects are scaled up to levels where their impact can make major
differences for communities across the country who for far too long have
been neglected. Elected Officials to Protect America is grateful and
excited to see the GGRF empower leaders in Justice40 communities to
create economic opportunities with good paying jobs, while transitioning
to a clean energy economy for all.” \[Statement, 04/04/2024\]

**Jessica Buendia, VP of Sustainability and Green For All National
Director, Dream.Org**: “Dream.Org commends the Coalition for Green
Capital (CGC) on their $5 billion award to create a national green bank.
Since the passage of the Inflation Reduction Act in 2022, we have worked
with the EPA, our partners, and thousands of supporters to shape GGRF
programs to center disadvantaged communities. We will continue to work
together to prioritize community engagement and technical assistance in
this next phase of implementation. Today marks the beginning of a new
era for climate finance where communities most impacted by climate
change will finally have access to the financing they need for the
solutions they deserve. Our vision is for this funding to flow to Black
and Brown communities and through minority-owned businesses to create
unprecedented work and wealth opportunities that create a greener world
for all.”
\[[Statement](https://dream.org/news-articles/statement-ggrf-award-announcement/),
04/04/2024\]

**Deneine Powell, Executive Director, Urban Sustainability Directors
Network:** “Sustainability, climate resilience, and equity are the
pillars of a future where every community can thrive. Through the EPA’s
greenhouse gas reduction grant competitions, we are leveling the playing
field and ensuring that support and energy equity reach those most
vulnerable to climate change. This announcement marks a critical step
towards empowering communities nationwide, fostering partnerships that
drive innovation in green technology, and securing a healthier, more
sustainable environment for all.”
\[[Statement](https://climatemayors.org/statement-ggrf/), 04/04/2024\]

**Byron Gudiel, Executive Director, Center for Earth Energy and
Democracy (CEED):** “It’s encouraging to see these vital Justice40
investments get to disproportionately  overburdened communities from
around the country to support pollution-free energy and climate
projects. This is only the beginning. We hope EPA continues to work with
awardees to create robust community engagement processes, provide clear
information on their decision making processes and most importantly
deliver direct benefits to environmental justice communities. We look
forward to seeing the recipients of the GGRF $7 billion Solar for All
competition awards.”
\[[Statement](https://ceed.org/the-latest/the-center-for-earth-energy-and-democracy-ceed-reacts-to-epas-greenhouse-gas-reduction-fund-ggrf-awardee-announcement/),
04/04/2024\]

**Justin Balik, State Program Director, Evergreen Action**: “We are
thrilled to see the awards announced today are headed to recipients
poised to build a clean energy lending ecosystem that will support
deployment across the country for years to come. $20 billion in awards
is already a major investment, but it’s only a fraction of the impact
that these programs will have, as the green banks and investment funds
awarded today stand up new revolving finance supports that attract even
more private capital. This initial investment to fund future clean
energy projects will be felt well beyond the 10-year window that applies
to most IRA programs. By focusing on communities that have been
historically locked out of traditional financing pathways and giving
communities the flexibility to design projects that meet their unique
needs, these funds will fill in the gaps left by the private sector and
allow for creativity in tackling our biggest sources of climate
pollution.”
\[[Statement](https://www.evergreenaction.com/press/greenhouse-gas-reduction-fund-programs-are-poised-to-deliver-long-term-climate-economic-benefits-despite-gop-attacks),
04/04/2024\]

**Kate Johnson, Head of U.S. Federal Affairs, C40 Cities**: “The
Greenhouse Gas Reduction Fund is a historic opportunity to invest in
communities and create a cleaner and more just energy system for all.
Cities are uniquely positioned to ensure that the projects funded by
GGRF recipients deliver the maximum benefit to people on the ground –
cleaner air, good paying jobs, and lower energy bills. C40 applauds the
EPA’s action, and encourages all GGRF recipients to partner with mayors
to advance transformative, community-driven projects that will improve
people’s lives.”
\[[Statement](https://climatemayors.org/statement-ggrf/), 04/04/2024\]

**Antonieta Cadiz, Deputy Executive Director,** **Climate Power En
Acción**: “Today’s announcement will help people get the resources they
need to make a difference in their communities. President Biden’s clean
energy plan is already creating new opportunities across America, and
there is so much more work to be done. Today’s awardees have the deep
knowledge and experience to bring the clean energy future to life,
particularly in low-income, Black, and brown communities — those who are
on the frontlines of the climate crisis. President Biden knows that the
climate crisis has disproportionately affected marginalized communities,
and their leadership is crucial to right the wrongs of historic
environmental injustice and inaction. The investments announced today
will bring cleaner air, lower energy costs, and quality jobs to the
communities most impacted by the toxic legacy of corporate polluters.”
\[[Statement](https://climatepower.us/news/climate-power-statement-on-new-clean-energy-plan-funding-to-bring-clean-energy-to-communities-across-america/),
04/04/2024\]

**Maggie Monast, Senior Director for Climate-Smart Agriculture,
Environmental Defense Fund:** “Farmers and ranchers are essential allies
in generating climate solutions, but they need the right kind of
financial support to do so. Funding from the National Clean Investment
Fund will de-risk and catalyze replicable, scalable and equitable
financial solutions that accelerate climate-smart agriculture
implementation. The EPA’s announcement is a major step forward and will
generate benefits for farms, ranches and rural communities across the
nation.” \[Statement, 04/04/2024\]

**Chris Espinosa, Legislative Director for Climate and Energy,
Earthjustice:** “We applaud the Biden Administration for today’s
Greenhouse Gas Reduction Fund awards and especially commend them for
ensuring that 70 percent of this funding will benefit low-income and
disadvantaged communities. As we quickly transition to a clean energy
economy, we cannot leave large parts of the country behind. The
Greenhouse Gas Reduction Fund is a critical piece of the IRA to invest
directly in low-income and disadvantaged communities that have long
faced the disproportionate burden of pollution, energy development, and
the worst impacts of climate change. These investments, plus the major
private capital investments they will leverage, will spur sustainable
development and job growth, lower energy costs for families, and empower
communities with the funding they need to fight climate change and clean
up their air, water, and land. While celebrating these funds, we look
forward to upcoming awards under the Fund’s $7 billion Solar for All
program, which dedicates 100 percent of its funding to low-income and
disadvantaged communities.”** **
\[[Statement](https://earthjustice.org/press/2024/earthjustice-praises-announcement-of-new-climate-funds-awardees-to-turbocharge-climate-and-environmental-justice-investments-in-disadvantaged-communities),
04/04/2024\]

**Sylvia Chi, Senior Policy Analyst, Just Solutions, Founder, GGRF
Equity and Governance Best Practices Alliance**: “We congratulate EPA on
reaching such a historic milestone for this critical financing program
which targets almost 70% of funds to low-income and disadvantaged
communities, We look forward to continuing to collaborate with the GGRF
awardees to ensure this program delivers significant and tangible
benefits to the communities across our country that bear a
disproportionate burden from pollution and climate change.”
\[[Statement](https://www.nrdc.org/press-releases/epa-issues-awards-crucial-clean-energy-finance-program),
04/04/2024\]

**Irene Burga, Climate Justice and Clean Air Director, GreenLatinos**:
“Growing up in a predominantly Latine and highly polluted part of Los
Angeles County, I’ve witnessed first-hand the dire impact of pollution
on the health, safety and ability to prosper in Latine communities. The
Greenhouse Gas Reduction Fund provides a lifeline, offering a chance for
a cleaner, healthier future where every Latine family can access clean
air and sustainable energy. For too long, our communities have suffered
from pollution and environmental disparities, hindering our dreams and
well-being. This fund provides the crucial financial support needed to
deploy clean energy and pollution reduction projects, offering cleaner
air, safer neighborhoods, and economic opportunities. Facing potential
cuts, we must unite to defend this program, ensuring our community
thrives in a pollution-free world, now and for future generations.”
\[Statement, 04/04/2024\]

**Steve Clemmer, Director of Energy Research and Analysis, Union of
Concerned Scientists:** “Establishing the National Clean Investment Fund
is pivotal in catalyzing the transition to an equitable, decarbonized
economy. Using seed money from public funding to unlock additional
private sector investment and new low-cost financing is a cornerstone in
the transition to clean energy, and this program ensures the associated
benefits are accessible to all. It is hopeful to see a list of
non-profits that have a proven track record of financing clean energy in
low-income and disadvantaged communities.”
\[[Statement](https://www.ucsusa.org/about/news/epa-announces-nonprofits-lead-national-green-bank),
04/04/2024\]

**Carrie Clark, Executive Director, North Carolina League of
Conservation Voters:** “We thank Vice President Kamala Harris for coming
to North Carolina and announcing the launch of the Greenhouse Gas
Reduction Fund; and it couldn’t come at a better time. According to the
latest US climate assessment, North Carolina is one of the top five
states facing the most expensive climate disasters. But North Carolina
has also ranked first in the nation for business two years in a row, and
first in the nation in rural clean energy jobs. If we want this success
to continue, we must address the climate crisis. This announcement
addresses the heart of the climate crisis and will help ensure North
Carolina continues to be a great place for families and businesses to
thrive.” \[Statement, 04/04/2024\]

**Sandy Bahr, Arizona Chapter Director, Sierra Club**: “Sierra Club is
excited to see today’s announcement of the awardees for the Greenhouse
Gas Reduction Fund, which will help communities throughout the U.S. with
investments to facilitate a more rapid transition to clean energy. These
dollars will be focused on Black, Latinx, Indigenous, and other
communities that have experienced the worst impacts of pollution.
Scaling up clean energy via this program will help to reduce pollution
and energy costs, while improving the health of everyone, especially
those in these overburdened communities.” \[Statement, 04/04/2024\]

**Shelbie Swartz, Executive Director, Institute for a Progressive
Nevada:** “Today’s announcement is a watershed moment for climate and
clean energy funding in this country. Communities nationwide –
especially Black, Latinx and other communities that have for decades
faced the brunt of pollution – are going to see an injection of federal
investments that will help accelerate the necessary and crucial
transition to clean energy. That transition will happen in their homes,
their towns, their businesses – building on a track record of successful
green and community-based lenders across the country. The federal
funding will help scale projects that push us closer to a pollution-free
future, reduce energy costs, and improve the health of all Americans.
The GGRF is one way the Biden administration is meeting its commitment
to the Justice40 principles, and we are excited to see these investments
break ground later this year.” \[Statement, 04/04/2024\]

**Elizabeth Del Buono, MD, President, Michigan Clinicians for Climate
Action**: “Michigan Clinicians for Climate Action (MiCCA) celebrates the
announcement of the Greenhouse Gas Reduction Fund (GGRF) by the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency. It is a significant step towards
prioritizing the health and well-being of communities across the nation.
This key component of President Biden’s climate and clean energy plan
provides important resources in our fight against climate change and its
detrimental impacts on public health.

By directing funding towards projects aimed at reducing pollution and
lowering energy costs for families, the GGRF is fostering a cleaner and
healthier environment for all. Given the disproportionate health impacts
of those living closest to fossil fuel pollution, it is appropriate that
a significant portion of this funding be allocated to communities that
have historically struggled to access capital for pollution-reducing
projects, including communities of color, low-income, rural, Tribal, and
energy transition communities.” \[Statement, 04/04/2024\]

**Mikaela Curry, Regional Field Manager, Sierra Club:** “The Greenhouse
Gas Reduction Fund offers an incredible opportunity to equip communities
with the tools they need to reduce pollution and improve health through
meaningful investments. I am excited for the potential of this fund to
bring real dollars to real people, especially for communities that are
too often overlooked and underfunded, and have been disproportionately
burdened by pollution.”
\[[Statement](https://www.sierraclub.org/press-releases/2024/04/sierra-club-celebrates-20-billion-clean-technology-financing-made-possible),
04/04/2024\]

**Deirdre Nieves, Director of Climate Solutions and Justice, West
Michigan Environmental Action Council:** “Today’s announcement of the
Greenhouse Gas Reduction Fund (GGRF) awardees marks another significant
step in the right direction for West Michigan and environmental justice
communities nationwide. With $20 billion allocated to green finance
programs, including the National Clean Investment Fund and Clean
Communities Investment Accelerator, the GGRF will empower individuals,
nonprofits, small businesses, and lenders to drive impactful projects.
From community-owned solar initiatives to electrification loans for
small businesses and homes, these investments will reduce pollution,
lower energy costs, and create quality jobs. Importantly, over
two-thirds of GGRF funding will prioritize communities historically
marginalized in accessing capital for pollution-reduction projects. This
underscores the GGRF’s commitment to advancing environmental justice and
catalyzing inclusive economic growth. As we celebrate this milestone,
let us recognize it as another step in the right direction towards a
more sustainable and prosperous future for all.” \[Statement,
04/04/2024\]

**James Neal, Senior Manager for Finance Initiatives, Efficiency
Maine**: “The Efficiency Maine Green Bank is grateful for and excited
about the opportunities that this generous National Clean Investment
Fund grant will provide. These funds will enable the Efficiency Maine
Green Bank to offer loans for heat pump projects that will reduce
Maine’s dependence on imported fuels and lower heating bills in homes
and businesses across the state.”
\[[Statement](https://pingree.house.gov/news/documentsingle.aspx?DocumentID=5206),
04/04/2024\]

**PennFuture:** “PennFuture is excited to see the progress made today in
the Biden Administration’s climate and clean energy plan with the
awardees of the Greenhouse Gas Reduction Fund. This financing program
will help Pennsylvania communities overburdened by legacy industrial
pollution to recover by implementing clean energy projects in their
areas and reduce pollution. GGRF will create job opportunities in the
clean energy sector while also providing Pennsylvanians with investments
in home and business upgrades to lower their energy costs. We are
grateful that more than two-thirds of all GGRF funding will be allocated
to projects in communities that frequently face difficulty in accessing
capital for projects that reduce pollution and decrease household energy
expenses. These communities include people of color, low-income,
disadvantaged, rural, Tribal, and energy transition communities.”
\[Statement, 04/04/2024\]

**Sunrise Movement:** “A huge announcement today: the EPA is launching a
first-of-its-kind Green Investment Bank. It will finance tens of
thousands of climate & clean energy projects to improve public health,
create good-paying jobs, and invest in low-income communities.” \[[X
Post](https://x.com/sunrisemvmt/status/1775988999334539484),
04/04/2024\]

**World Resources Institute Energy Program:** “⚡💰We’re pleased to see
the announcement of the 8 recipients of the GGRF National Clean
Investment Fund & Clean Communities Investment Accelerator, totaling $20
billion. This will help propel clean energy investments & strengthen
local economies all across the US.⬇️” \[[X
Post](https://x.com/WRIEnergy/status/1775938174382223809?s=20),
04/04/2024\]

**Southern Alliance for Clean Energy**: “Low-income communities across
the Southeast are now one step closer to having the financing to cut
pollution and invest in clean energy thanks to @EPA’s Greenhouse Gas
Reduction Fund. This fund has awarded $20 billion to 8
pollution-fighting grantees. \#ActOnClimate \#GGRF” \[[X
Post](https://x.com/cleanenergyorg/status/1775931737240899708?s=20),
04/04/2024\]

**Partners for Rural Transformation**: “Today marks a monumental
achievement in the world of environmental justice – a truly
unprecedented $27 billion within the Inflation Reduction Act has been
granted by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).” \[[X
Post](https://x.com/PfRTorg/status/1775942143279874172?s=20),
04/04/2024\]

**Lobby for Climate:** “Climate pollution is a major \#publichealth and
environmental threat. Thank you @POTUS and @EPAMichaelRegan for
investing through the Greenhouse Gas Reduction Fund to protect
vulnerable communities! \#ActOnClimate \#GGRF”\[[X
Post](https://x.com/LobbyForClimate/status/1775944859410419900?s=20),
04/04/2024\]

**Health Care Without Harm – U.S. and Canada:** “The @EPA’s announcement
today of awardees for the Greenhouse Gas Reduction Fund (#GGRF) is an
important step to reduce pollution, improve public health, and
accelerate the transition to clean energy. \#ActOnClimate” \[[X
Post](https://x.com/HCWithoutHarm/status/1775942466119536939?s=20),
04/04/2024\]

**ICLEI-Local Governments for Sustainability, USA**: “Investments from
the Greenhouse Gas Reduction Fund will reduce pollution, improve public
health, and accelerate the transition to clean energy. The funding
announced today by [@EPA](https://twitter.com/EPA) will help
disadvantaged communities invest in climate solutions.” \[[X
Post](https://x.com/ICLEI_USA/status/1775913344764903465?s=20),
04/04/2024\]

**National Association of Affordable Housing Lenders:** “Congratulations
to our members [@communityp](https://twitter.com/communityp),
[@EnterpriseNow](https://twitter.com/EnterpriseNow),
[@LISC\_HQ](https://twitter.com/LISC_HQ),
[@HPN\_Network](https://twitter.com/HPN_Network) and
[@OppFinance](https://twitter.com/OppFinance) on being awarded under the
Greenhouse Gas Reduction Fund! This will fund climate and clean energy
projects across America, especially in low-income and disadvantaged
communities.” \[[X
Post](https://x.com/NAAHLDC/status/1775911147885007277?s=20),
04/04/2024\]

**Justice Climate Fund:** JCF thanks the Biden Administration & @EPA for
selecting JCF for the GGRF’s Clean Communities Investment Accelerator
program. We look forward to collaborating on climate solutions to
benefit the communities we serve and the whole USA. \#StrongerTogether
\[[X
Post](https://twitter.com/JusticeClim8/status/1775878618461155704?s=20),
04/04/2024\]

**Colorado Clean Energy Fund:** “Exciting news 🎉 @CGreenCapital has
been named an award recipient of the @EPA Greenhouse Gas Reduction Fund
(#GGRF) and we are proud to be named a sub-awardee of this program!”
\[[X
Post](https://twitter.com/co_energyfund/status/1775901984463139288?s=20),
04/04/2024\]

**RE-volv:** “Today’s [@EPA](https://twitter.com/EPA) news = bold
progress toward a just, clean energy future. 70+% of GGRF funds will
benefit disadvantaged communities. Congrats to the $14B National Clean
Investment Fund (NCIF) awardees a part of GGRF:
[@CGreenCapital](https://twitter.com/CGreenCapital),
[@climate\_united](https://twitter.com/climate_united) , & Power Forward
Communities.” \[[X
Post](https://x.com/RE_volv/status/1775924234268852640?s=20),
04/04/2024\]

**California IBank:** “Today’s announcement marks a historic moment in
the equitable transition to a clean energy economy! IBank is ready to
get to work and accelerate the deployment of clean energy projects
across CA.” \[[X
Post](https://x.com/IBankCA/status/1775947294497792397?s=20),
04/04/2024\]

**Amalgamated Bank:** “Congratulations to the recipients of grant awards
from the [@EPA](https://twitter.com/EPA) Greenhouse Gas Reduction Fund.
The grants will establish a national climate bank & provide low-income
communities with access to capital to participate in a more sustainable
economy. More: <https://t.co/kgvNMikU54>” \[[X
Post](https://x.com/AmalgamatedBank/status/1775913347998785705?s=20),
04/04/2024\]

**<u>Labor Leaders</u>**

**Jason Walsh, Executive Director, BlueGreen Alliance**: “Today’s
announcement shows the Biden administration’s continued commitment to
investing in communities around the country to support the deployment of
clean energy, reduce pollution, and create good union jobs. We urge the
EPA and the entities selected to work closely and thoughtfully with
workers and communities to make sure the funding goes to those that need
it most and adhere to high-road labor standards to make sure the jobs
created are safe, good-paying, union jobs.”
\[[Statement](https://www.bluegreenalliance.org/resources/greenhouse-gas-reduction-funds-should-support-high-road-jobs/),
04/04/2024\]

**Sean McGarvey, President, North America’s Building Trades Unions
(NABTU):** “The EPA’s announcement of awardees under the Greenhouse Gas
Reduction Fund is a major step toward lowering our nation’s emissions,
supporting low-income and disadvantaged communities, creating union
jobs, and expanding clean energy projects across the country. NABTU is
pleased to be partnered with groups like the Coalition for Green Capital
and others as we work to ensure that the pathways to the middle class
that unionized labor provides are a key pillar in the rollout of these
funds.”
\[[Statement](https://nabtu.org/press_releases/nabtu-applauds-the-20b-epa-announcement-for-the-greenhouse-gas-reduction-fund-program/),
04/04/2024\]

**<u>Elected Officials</u>**

**Connecticut Governor Ned Lamont:** “This grant from the EPA will go a
long way in supporting Connecticut’s efforts to build infrastructure
that helps us reach our goals of reducing greenhouse gas emissions and
making our state more resilient against climate change. On behalf of
Connecticut, I thank President Biden, Vice President Harris, and EPA
Administrator Regan for leading the Greenhouse Gas Reduction Fund
process in a diligent, comprehensive, and inclusive manner. This award
will help the Connecticut Green Bank increase and accelerate private
investment in our state’s environmental infrastructure, especially in
our vulnerable communities.”
\[[Statement](https://portal.ct.gov/office-of-the-governor/news/press-releases/2024/04-2024/governor-lamont-congressional-delegation-applaud-epa-awards-to-reduce-carbon-pollution),
04/04/2024\]

**Washington Governor Jay Inslee: “**The EPA announced a staggering $20
billion of investments to ignite clean energy financing to speed the
delivery of clean, affordable energy to communities nationwide. WA
stands poised to seize this opportunity with our new non-profit the WA
ST Green Bank.” \[[X
Post](https://twitter.com/govinslee/status/1775917074927558805?s=42),
04/04/2024\]

**Illinois Governor JB Pritzker: “**A big day for Illinois and the
entire nation. With @EPA’s investment in the @CGreenCapital, we have the
opportunity of a lifetime to boost our Climate and Equitable Jobs Act
goals. We’re on track to a clean energy future and economy that every
Illinoisan can access.” \[[X
Post](https://twitter.com/GovPritzker/status/1775990264810573894),
04/04/2024\]

**Senator Chuck Schumer (NY):** “The investments Democrats made are
paying off for the American people. By providing $20 billion that will
flow to tens of thousands of green and climate friendly projects across
the country, today’s historic announcement, made possible by our
Inflation Reduction Act, is ushering in the clean energy revolution. I
am especially proud that EPA has secured commitments from today’s
awardees that over 70 percent of the capital – over $14 billion – will
go to low-income and disadvantaged communities. These investments mean
cleaner communities, lower energy costs, and jobs, jobs, jobs. I’m proud
of this bold investment in communities across America and New York and
confident today’s announcement will have positive reverberations for
generations to come.

For decades – low-income and disadvantaged communities have been
disproportionally affected by climate change and environmental
disasters. Now, we are pairing public dollars with private investment –
mobilizing almost $7 of private capital for every $1 of federal funding
with these populations in mind – to create good-paying union jobs, rid
communities of pollution, and lower the cost of energy. Americans are
already feeling the effects of the transformative Inflation Reduction
Act, and today’s announcement of the initial funding for two of the
Greenhouse Gas Reduction Fund’s programs – the National Clean Investment
Fund and Clean Communities Investment Accelerator – will only accelerate
our country’s transition to a climate friendly and more equitable
future.

Delivering on environmental justice was one of my north stars while
writing the Inflation Reduction Act, and the Greenhouse Gas Reduction
Fund is poised to be one of the most significant vehicles for delivering
lasting support to our environmental justice communities. When you
invest in renewable energy and clean buildings, you are investing in the
technologies of the future and a better world for our children and
grandchildren. I am proud to have led this historic program to passage
in the Inflation Reduction Act to lower costs for families and creating
good paying jobs securing America’s energy independent future.”
\[Statement, 04/04/2024\]

**Senator Richard Blumenthal (CT)**: ““This $5 billion in federal
funding is critical to building clean energy infrastructure and a more
energy resilient Connecticut. The Connecticut Green Bank is doing
transformative work in our state to fight climate change and protect our
most disadvantaged communities from environmental injustice. I am proud
to fight alongside the Connecticut delegation for strong investments
like these that will tackle the climate crisis, reduce greenhouse gas
emissions, and grow well-paying jobs.”
\[[Statement](https://portal.ct.gov/office-of-the-governor/news/press-releases/2024/04-2024/governor-lamont-congressional-delegation-applaud-epa-awards-to-reduce-carbon-pollution),
04/04/2024\]

**Senator Chris Murphy (CT):** “Our state has set the national standard
for green banks, and I’m thrilled to see this massive investment in the
Connecticut Green Bank. This federal funding will help reduce greenhouse
gas emissions, create good-paying jobs, and increase resilience in
communities that have been the most impacted by climate change but have
the fewest resources. It’s a win-win for the climate and our state’s
economy.”
\[[Statement](https://portal.ct.gov/office-of-the-governor/news/press-releases/2024/04-2024/governor-lamont-congressional-delegation-applaud-epa-awards-to-reduce-carbon-pollution),
04/04/2024\]

**Senator Tom Carper (DE):** “Every American should benefit from the
investments we make to fight climate change, no matter their zip code.
That’s why we created the Greenhouse Gas Reduction Fund — to leverage
both public and private investments to help finance a historic network
of climate and clean energy projects, especially in low-income and
disadvantaged communities. Historically, those are the places least able
to attract private capital, and we need to change that. These
investments will lower energy costs for everyone and create good-paying
jobs, and I applaud the EPA for moving quickly to implement this
program. Congratulations to the eight recipients who will bring us one
step closer to a clean energy future.”
\[[Statement](https://www.epw.senate.gov/public/index.cfm/press-releases-democratic?ID=8A9E276B-620A-4C22-A075-F0AC04DCFC09),
04/04/2024\]

**Senator Ed Markey (MA):** “After more than a decade of hard work, our
vision to create a national climate bank is a reality. Thanks to the $20
billion we secured in the Inflation Reduction Act, the Greenhouse Gas
Reduction Fund will draw on the experience of public, semi-public, and
non-profit community leaders to unleash tens of billions of dollars to
deliver more than money, but also justice, to disadvantaged communities
in Massachusetts and across the country.

As the single largest climate investment in the Inflation Reduction Act,
the Greenhouse Gas Reduction Fund will cut emissions, protect health,
and create job and economic opportunities so that communities won’t just
survive, but thrive, for generations to come. Even more than money, the
Greenhouse Gas Reduction Fund is delivering hope – hope for justice and
for a livable future. I applaud the Environmental Protection Agency’s
work to quickly stand up this critical program while ensuring
transparency and collaboration.”
\[[Statement](https://www.markey.senate.gov/news/press-releases/senator-markey-celebrates-launch-of-epas-greenhouse-gas-reduction-fund-awards-based-on-his-national-climate-bank-legislation),
04/04/2024\]

**Representative Frank Pallone (NJ-06): “**This fund, created as part of
the Inflation Reduction Act, is critical to ensuring that nobody is left
behind as we transition to clean energy. For years, underserved
communities that have tried to invest in clean energy have repeatedly
run into obstacles accessing the necessary capital. The Greenhouse Gas
Reduction Fund is designed to fix that problem by building sustainable
community lending capacity so everyone can benefit from clean energy. 

The Inflation Reduction Act included $27 billion for EPA to build the
Greenhouse Gas Reduction Fund. EPA is still implementing the fund and
working through the award selection process for each of the three
funding opportunities announced last year.

This program is a game-changer. Third-party estimates project that
investments made through the fund could save Americans more than $100
billion and create hundreds of thousands of good-paying jobs over the
next decade—particularly in low-income and disadvantaged communities.
This is what investing in America looks like. Good paying jobs today for
a cleaner and healthier tomorrow. This is exactly the kind of thing this
Committee should be getting behind. But not one Republican supported the
Inflation Reduction Act, and now, true to form, they are already
attacking it. 

Their attacks are unwarranted. EPA has already put in important
safeguards to ensure that taxpayer dollars are spent properly. Each
funding opportunity from the Greenhouse Gas Reduction Fund includes
mandatory reporting requirements that apply to any award or subaward, so
that EPA can assess award performance and the progress on meeting key
milestones. EPA also included annual audits that allow it to monitor how
recipients are using their awards in order to make certain that funds
are being spent appropriately. EPA also has the flexibility to make
final awards contingent upon recipients taking additional steps that
mitigate award-specific risks identified in the selection process.

These are strong oversight requirements that EPA has put into place to
help ensure that every dollar goes toward accomplishing the fund’s
goals. The Greenhouse Gas Reduction Fund is critical to our efforts to
meet the environmental and economic challenges we face today. The
worsening climate crisis continues to wreak havoc across the nation,
costing families their homes, their livelihoods, and their lives.
Wildfires and extreme weather events exacerbated by climate change are
ravaging our communities. Just last year, Americans experienced more
billion-dollar disasters than any other year on record and natural
disasters linked to climate change cost Americans more than $92 billion.
By drastically cutting our emissions, we can aggressively combat the
climate crisis, protect our communities, grow our economy through the
clean energy transition, and save money in the long-term. 

I am always disappointed when Republicans say they care about oversight
but then make it clear at hearings that their only intention is to tear
down programs that they oppose. They don’t want the Greenhouse Gas
Reduction Fund to work because they don’t want anything to undermine
their agenda of putting polluters over people. 

The size and scope of the Greenhouse Gas Reduction Fund is very large,
but so is the challenge of combating climate change. Constructive
congressional oversight can enhance EPA’s efforts to mitigate program
risks and make certain that every dollar has the greatest possible
impact. For the future of our nation and our world, we should be doing
everything we can to ensure that this program succeeds. I look forward
to hearing from the witness today on how we can best accomplish that.”
\[[Statement](https://democrats-energycommerce.house.gov/media/press-releases/pallone-blasts-ongoing-republican-efforts-undermine-greenhouse-gas-reduction),
04/04/2024\]

**Representative Chellie Pingree (ME-01)**: “Green banks have proven to
be instrumental in our transition to a clean energy economy, supporting
renewable energy technology investments and deployment across the
country. These are the kind of targeted tools to reduce greenhouse gas
emissions we envisioned for our communities when Congress passed the
Inflation Reduction Act, the most significant piece of climate
legislation in our nation’s history. This considerable investment for
the Efficiency Maine Green Bank will not only help Mainers save on their
home energy costs but will help propel our communities towards a more
sustainable future.”
\[[Statement](https://pingree.house.gov/news/documentsingle.aspx?DocumentID=5206),
04/04/2024\]

**Representative Debbie Dingell (MI-06):** “These awards are making
clean energy financing accessible to low-income and underserved
communities that have for far too long carried the brunt of
environmental pollution, helping us attack the climate crisis head on
and creating jobs while lowering energy costs. These investments will
fund projects that otherwise would not have been possible, and will
mobilize nearly seven times as much in private capital. I’m proud to
have helped author and pass the Greenhouse Gas Reduction Fund and look
forward to continuing to invest in the most impactful and urgent
projects to reach our climate and environmental justice goals.”
\[[Statement](https://www.vanhollen.senate.gov/news/press-releases/van-hollen-markey-dingell-join-administration-in-announcing-funding-launch-of-the-national-climate-bank-network-providing-20-billion-to-spur-clean-energy-projects-nationwide),
04/04/2024\]

**Representative John B. Larson (CT-01):** “Today’s announcement is an
investment in good-paying jobs and unleashing America’s clean energy
future. I am proud of the work the Connecticut delegation has done and
will continue to do to secure funding to support the Connecticut Green
Bank, which has been a model for the nation in the fight against climate
change. This funding will build on their important mission to invest in
innovative green energy solutions, protect residents from dangerous
pollution, and uplift communities that have been disproportionately
impacted by environmental injustices.”
\[[Statement](https://portal.ct.gov/office-of-the-governor/news/press-releases/2024/04-2024/governor-lamont-congressional-delegation-applaud-epa-awards-to-reduce-carbon-pollution),
04/04/2024\]

**Representative Joe Courtney (CT-02)**: “When we talk about becoming
more energy efficient, more energy independent, and better stewards of
our environment, this is the kind of serious investment we need to
achieve those goals. With the federal funding announced today from the
Inflation Reduction Act, the Connecticut Green Bank will enable
communities across the region to stand up more climate resilient
infrastructure and projects that reduce greenhouse emissions.”
\[[Statement](https://portal.ct.gov/office-of-the-governor/news/press-releases/2024/04-2024/governor-lamont-congressional-delegation-applaud-epa-awards-to-reduce-carbon-pollution),
04/04/2024\]

**Representative Rosa DeLauro (CT-03):** “This award to the Connecticut
Green Bank, the nation’s first green bank, will accelerate investments
in the clean economy, reduce emissions and improve the quality of life
for all Americans. The intent of the Greenhouse Gas Reduction Fund was
to ensure that entities like the Connecticut Green Bank can spread the
benefits of the Inflation Reduction Act to underserved communities.
Investments like the one today empower clean technology projects to
create good-paying jobs and lower energy costs for American families,
especially in low-income and disadvantaged communities, while cutting
harmful pollution to protect people’s health and tackle the climate
crisis.”
\[[Statement](https://portal.ct.gov/office-of-the-governor/news/press-releases/2024/04-2024/governor-lamont-congressional-delegation-applaud-epa-awards-to-reduce-carbon-pollution),
04/04/2024\]

**Representative Jim Himes (CT-04):** “The Connecticut Green Bank is an
invaluable asset in the national effort to curb the effects of climate
change and a key driver of our state’s transition to a clean energy
economy. I’m thrilled to see $5 billion from the Inflation Reduction
Act’s Greenhouse Gas Reduction Fund go to organizations like the
Connecticut Green Bank to facilitate public-private investments in green
infrastructure across the country. This award will help make our
communities more resilient against extreme weather events, slash energy
costs for residents, and limit our greenhouse gas emissions so that
future generations may inherit a livable, vibrant planet.”
\[[Statement](https://portal.ct.gov/office-of-the-governor/news/press-releases/2024/04-2024/governor-lamont-congressional-delegation-applaud-epa-awards-to-reduce-carbon-pollution),
04/04/2024\]

**Representative Jahana Hayes (CT-05):** “Once again, Inflation
Reduction Act funding will be coming back to our state through the
Connecticut Green Bank. This legislation has a tremendous impact on
Connecticut as we look to combat climate change, reduce carbon emissions
and deploy clean energy infrastructure. I look forward to continuing the
work to deliver wins for our state.”
\[[Statement](https://portal.ct.gov/office-of-the-governor/news/press-releases/2024/04-2024/governor-lamont-congressional-delegation-applaud-epa-awards-to-reduce-carbon-pollution),
04/04/2024\]

**Senator** **Chris Van Hollen (MD):** \[Thread\] “🚨 NEWS: Today the
Biden Admin announced the official launch of our Greenhouse Gas
Reduction Fund—the $20 billion ‘Green Bank’ we created with the
Inflation Reduction Act to turbocharge green innovation.

This is a major milestone in an effort I’ve worked on for over a
decade.🧵

This national Green Bank Network includes thousands of nonprofits,
companies, and individuals who will invest these funds in green
innovation & clean energy projects — accelerating our clean energy
transition nationwide.

Grantees will leverage private investments into green transportation
networks, buildings, and energy in MD and across the country — reducing
greenhouse gas emissions.

They will also build capacity among community lenders to drive
investments in underserved areas.

Overall, our public investment will leverage up to 7x more private
investment — ensuring a self-sustaining fund for generations to come.

It’ll also bolster our economy with thousands of green jobs & put more
money in consumers’ pockets as we lower the cost of clean energy.

Importantly, we’re aiming for 70% of the $$ from this Green Bank to
ensure that underserved communities are not left behind in the clean
energy revolution. They have felt the brunt of the devastating impact of
climate change & should have a seat at the table in this fight.

It’s been 15 years since I first put pen to paper on a bill to create
this Green Bank, and two years since we finally got it done with the
Inflation Reduction Act. With today’s milestone, the Green Bank will get
up and running — and the entire world will benefit.” \[[Thread on
X](https://twitter.com/ChrisVanHollen/status/1775860616994996377),
04/04/2024\]

**Senator Chris Coons (DE):** “Thanks to @POTUS’ ambitious
decarbonization agenda and @SenatorCarper’s leadership on the EPW
committee, the @EPA announced $20 billion of investments today, marking
a pivotal moment in our ongoing fight against climate change and
transition towards a clean energy economy.”\[[X
Post](https://twitter.com/ChrisCoons/status/1775996747321381223),
04/04/2024\]

**Representative Mike Quigley (IL-05): “**Today, EPA announced $20
billion to create a national clean financing network for climate and
clean energy projects! Projects will reduce climate and air pollution
while mobilizing private capital and bringing clean technology to
communities across America.”\[[X
Post](https://twitter.com/RepMikeQuigley/status/1775908467665989866),
04/04/2024\]

**Representative Jamaal Bowman (NY-16):** “Let’s go!! The money from
Green House Gas Reduction Fund is finally going out to combat climate
change in our most vulnerable communities. I am so proud to have
supported the Inflation Reduction Act which created these grants. Now,
we’re working on getting this funding to NY-16!” \[[X
Post](https://twitter.com/RepBowman/status/1775929420902957546),
04/04/2024\]

**Representative Jared Huffman (CA-02):** “Great news! This federal $
will help advance the bold climate solutions we need to reduce air
pollution, lower energy costs, & bring clean technology to communities
across the US. @POTUS Biden’s \#InvestingInAmerica agenda continues to
deliver real results.” \[[X
Post](https://twitter.com/RepHuffman/status/1775933873999806789),
04/04/2024\]

**Representative Yvette Clark (NY-09):** “Celebrating the @EPA’s
announcement on $20 billion in funding to create a national clean
financing network for climate and clean energy projects! These projects
will help bring lower costs and economic revitalization to communities
that have historically been left behind.” \[[X
Post](https://twitter.com/RepYvetteClarke/status/1775936224676757926),
04/04/2024\]

**Representative Hank Johnson (GA-04):** “I’m proud to support these
historic climate investments. Thanks to @POTUS & @EPAMichaelRegan, we
are providing resources to vulnerable communities in \#GA04, delivering
investments in clean energy & climate solutions. That is how we
\#ActOnClimate!” \[[X
Post](https://twitter.com/RepHankJohnson/status/1775985013651124512),
04/04/2024\]

**Representative Raul Grijalva (AZ-07): “**This announcement is a
game-changer for environmental justice, low-income, and disadvantaged
communities to access and benefit from technologies and programs that
enable a cleaner, more sustainable economy. @POTUS is delivering on
much-needed climate action and progress.” \[[X
Post](https://twitter.com/RepRaulGrijalva/status/1775982147465027649),
04/04/2024\]

**Representative Lisa Blunt Rochester (DE-At Large):** “In the words of
@POTUS, this is a big \_\_\_ deal! I commend @EPA for this investment –
made possible by the Inflation Reduction Act – that will create a
national clean financing network for climate & clean energy projects &
will reduce climate and air pollution across the country.” \[[X
Post](https://twitter.com/RepLBR/status/1775980080574894229),
04/04/2024\]

**Representative Lois Frankel (FL-22): “**Today, @EPA announced $20B to
support clean energy projects across the US. These projects will
continue our efforts to: Lower energy costs, 💼 create good-paying jobs,
&🌎 curb our emissions! All thanks to the \#InflationReductionAct &
@POTUS’s Investing in America agenda!”\[[X
Post](https://twitter.com/RepLoisFrankel/status/1775973827647877584),
04/04/2024\]

**Congresswoman Sheila Cherfilus-McCormick (FL-20): “**Today, @VP and
@EPA announced a $20 billion investment in climate solutions and clean
energy projects, especially in low-income areas. This will reduce
climate pollution and save families money while bringing clean tech to
communities across America.” \[[X
Post](https://twitter.com/CongresswomanSC/status/1775965381376503859),
04/04/2024\]

**Representative Kathy Castor (FL-14): “**Investments from the
Greenhouse Gas Reduction Fund will reduce pollution, improve public
health & accelerate the transition to cleaner, cheaper energy. The
funding announced by @POTUS& @EPAwill help communities invest in
effective solutions for their pocketbook and planet.” \[[X
Post](https://twitter.com/USRepKCastor/status/1775952358830182746),
04/04/2024\]

**Representative Pramila Jayapal (WA-07):** “BREAKING: The @EPA
announced $20 BILLION in grants to fund a national network of climate
and clean energy projects! This will mean reduced air pollution, lower
energy costs, and clean tech for communities across America. Despite
Republican chaos, Democrats continue to deliver.” \[[X
Post](https://twitter.com/RepJayapal/status/1775904334812750007),
04/04/2024\]

**Representative Jerry Nadler (NY-12):** “Today, @EPA announced $20
billion in \#InflationReductionAct grants to create a national clean
financing network. By financing tens of thousands of projects, this
network will mobilize private capital to reduce climate & air pollution
while also reducing energy costs, improving public health, and creating
good-paying clean energy jobs in communities across the country,
especially in low-income and disadvantaged communities. @POTUS and
Democrats continue to deliver.” \[[X
Post](https://twitter.com/RepJerryNadler/status/1775911994597466569),
04/04/2024\]

**Representative Frederica Wilson (FL-24):** “🚨Too many wins today!
Biden Administration and @EPA announced $20 billion to help fund
projects to reduce greenhouse gases, like installing solar panels in
Miami-Dade. With Florida being ground zero for climate change, it’s time
we tackle it head on. \#DemocratsDeliverAgain✅” \[[X
Post](https://twitter.com/RepWilson/status/1775923330891059709),
04/04/2024\]

**Representative Kathy Castor (FL-14):** “Investments from the
Greenhouse Gas Reduction Fund will reduce pollution, improve public
health & accelerate the transition to cleaner, cheaper energy. The
funding announced by @POTUS & @EPA will help communities invest in
effective solutions for their pocketbook and planet💸👏” \[[X
Post](https://twitter.com/USRepKCastor/status/1775952358830182746?s=20),
04/04/2024\]

**Representative Betty McCollum (MN-04):** “The Greenhouse Gas Reduction
Fund is a $20 billion ‘Green Bank’ we created through the Inflation
Reduction Act—a national financing network for climate & clean energy
projects that will turbocharge green innovation & reduce air pollution!
\#ActOnClimate” \[[X
Post](https://twitter.com/BettyMcCollum04/status/1775929411080245312),
04/04/2024\]

**Senate Environment and Public Works Democrats:** “🚨⚡🌎 GREAT NEWS!
Thanks to the Inflation Reduction Act’s Greenhouse Gas Reduction Fund,
@EPA is announcing $20 billion to spur clean energy projects nationwide.
Our clean energy future is here!” \[[X
Post](https://twitter.com/EPWCmte/status/1775879463215013926),
04/04/2024\]

**House Sustainable Energy & Environment Coalition** (SEEC): “Today,
@EPA announced $20 billion to create a national clean financing network
across America. This is one of the \#InflationReductionAct’s biggest
investments in America’s communities who – for far too long – have been
left behind and overburdened by pollution. \#GGRF” \[[X
Post](https://twitter.com/SEEC/status/1775932074764976572), 04/04/2024\]

**House Energy and Commerce Democrats:** “BIG NEWS: @EPA has announced
its selections for $20 BILLION in grants from Democrats’ landmark
Greenhouse Gas Reduction Fund.

This first-of-its-kind program will:

💵Save Americans money on utility bills

🧑‍🔧Create new good-paying jobs

🌎Protect communities from the climate crisis” \[[X
Post](https://twitter.com/EnergyCommerce/status/1775876528468848695),
04/04/2024\]

*\###*
