---
date: '2024-04-25'
published_time: 2024-04-25 21:43:15-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/04/25/statement-of-president-joe-biden-on-the-passing-of-u-s-congressman-donald-payne-jr/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement of President Joe\_Biden on the Passing of U.S. Congressman Donald\
  \ Payne\_Jr."
---
 
Don Payne was an accomplished public servant whose kind strength and
generosity of spirit won him love across his district and the U.S.
Congress. I’ve trusted his partnership throughout my presidency, and
always been grateful for his insight and support.  
  
A proud son of New Jersey’s biggest city, Newark, Don was active in the
community since before he could even vote. He worked his way up from a
job as a highway toll collector, becoming a city councilman and county
freeholder. After losing his trailblazing father, New Jersey’s first
Black congressman Donald Payne Sr., to cancer in 2012, Don ran
reluctantly in a special election to serve out his father’s final term.
He came to embrace that proud heritage, winning reelection five times.  
  
Don and I worked together throughout his time in Congress, as he fought
to expand access to health care, clean drinking water, and cancer
screenings; to prevent gun violence, protect voting rights, and promote
equal pay for women. He co-sponsored the 2013 law reauthorizing the
Violence Against Women Act that I first wrote years ago, transforming
the way that domestic abuse is treated in America. And he was more
recently key to passing our landmark Bipartisan Infrastructure Law,
making sure to secure record funding for rail upgrades across the
Northeast, including the train tunnel under the Hudson River between New
Jersey and New York. They will be a piece of his legacy forever.  
  
Don represented the best of Newark, a community of faith, grit, and hard
work; and he believed deeply in its promise. He lived his whole life on
the same street, committed to the city that so many in his family
served. Throughout his courageous battle with diabetes, he never tired
of bringing people together to get things done for others.  
  
Jill and I send our thoughts to Don’s family – especially his beloved
wife, Beatrice, and their triplets, Donald III, Jack, and Yvonne – and
with the people of Newark, who have been blessed to have the wisdom and
heart of a Payne representing them in Congress for so long.

\###
