---
date: '2024-04-12'
modified_time: 2024-04-12 12:26:48-04:00
published_time: 2024-04-12 12:26:47-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/04/12/fact-sheet-president-biden-announces-key-progress-on-efforts-to-close-the-racial-wealth-gap/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: President\_Biden Announces Key Progress on Efforts to Close the\
  \ Racial Wealth\_Gap"
---
 
*Under President Biden’s leadership, the home appraisal gap—an indicator
of potential racial and ethnic bias—has shrunk by more than 40%*

*80% of Congressional Republicans are supporting a plan that would
reverse this progress, while cutting Medicare, Social Security, and the
Affordable Care Act*

Nearly three years ago at a [speech to commemorate the centennial of the
Tulsa Race
Massacre](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/06/02/remarks-by-president-biden-commemorating-the-100th-anniversary-of-the-tulsa-race-massacre/),
President Biden committed to addressing racial inequities in the home
appraisal process and increase the share of federal contract spending
awarded to small disadvantaged businesses by 50%. Today, during remarks
at the National Action Network Convention, President Biden will
highlight how his Administration is delivering on that promise and
announce key progress being made to create opportunity in historically
under-resourced communities and narrow the racial wealth gap.

While the President and Vice President continue working to close the
racial wealth gap and create more opportunities for all Americans, 80%
of Congressional Republicans are supporting a plan that would move the
country backwards.  Their plan would defund the President’s executive
orders on racial equity, while cutting Medicare, the Affordable Care
Act, and Social Security—raising the Social Security retirement age in
the process. Congressional Republicans would also roll back billions of
dollars in investments and tax incentives that support small businesses
as they shift to a clean economy.  Moreover, the Congressional
Republican plan would also increase prescription drug, energy, and
housing costs, while fighting for tax giveaways for the very rich and
big corporations.

In direct contrast, closing the racial wealth gap has been central to
the Biden-Harris Administration’s economic agenda, and the progress we
are making under the President’s leadership is delivering for
communities nationwide, including Black Americans. The President’s
announcements today to build on this progress include:

**Rooting out bias in the home appraisal process.** The Federal Housing
Finance Agency is releasing [new
data](https://www.fhfa.gov/Media/Blog/Pages/PAVE-Update-on-Property-Valuation-Inequalities.aspx)
showing that the “appraisal gap”—the likelihood that homes in
communities of color are undervalued compared to homes in majority-white
communities—has been cut by more than 40% since the Biden-Harris
Administration took action on appraisal bias. The data also show that
some states have eliminated the gap entirely. In these states, families
in communities of color are no more likely to have their home valued at
less than the agreed contract price than are families in white
communities. This means that more Black Americans and people of color
are able to build greater wealth from owning a home.

While there can be many reasons why an individual home is valued below
the agreed-upon contract price, systemic undervaluation in communities
of color can indicate racial bias in the appraisal process.

On June 1, 2021, the [centennial of the Tulsa Race
Massacre](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/06/02/remarks-by-president-biden-commemorating-the-100th-anniversary-of-the-tulsa-race-massacre/),
President Biden announced the creation of the Interagency Task Force on
Property Appraisal and Valuation Equity (PAVE): a [first-of-its-kind
effort](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/06/01/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-new-actions-to-build-black-wealth-and-narrow-the-racial-wealth-gap/) to
root out bias and advance equity in the home appraisal process. Since
releasing the [PAVE Action Plan](https://pave.hud.gov/) in March 2022,
the Task Force has made [critical
progress](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/06/01/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-takes-sweeping-action-to-address-racial-bias-in-home-valuations/)
towards implementation, including major steps to empower consumers to
take action against appraisal bias; prevent algorithmic bias in home
valuation; and support a well-trained and more representative appraiser
profession.

Rooting out bias in appraisals can help narrow the racial wealth gap.
According to a [recent
study](https://www.demos.org/sites/default/files/publications/RacialWealthGap_2.pdf),
eliminating racial disparities in the amount of wealth families gain
from owning a home would narrow the wealth gap by 16% between Black and
white households and by 41% between Latino and white households.

**Achieving record federal investment in small disadvantaged
businesses.** Today, President Biden is also announcing that in Fiscal
Year 2023, agencies surpassed the President’s goal for federal
contracting dollars going to small disadvantaged businesses (SDBs),
awarding SDBs a record-breaking $76.2 billion, or 12.1% in federal
contracts. This sets a new all-time record for federal dollars to SDBs,
surpassing the record set by the Biden-Harris Administration last year
of $69.9 billion, and illustrates continued progress towards the
President’s goal of 15% to SDBs by 2025. Three consecutive years of
record-breaking awards to SDBs underscores the Administration’s
unwavering commitment to leveling the playing field for the Nation’s
small businesses and ensuring that no talent is left on the sidelines,
even in the face of legal attacks that seek to undercut the
Administration’s efforts.

Increasing federal investments in under-resourced businesses not only
helps more Americans realize their entrepreneurial dreams and
strengthens the supplier base, but also narrows persistent wealth
disparities. According to
[analysis](https://www.whitehouse.gov/cea/written-materials/2021/12/01/the-benefits-of-increased-equity-in-federal-contracting/)
from the White House Council of Economic Advisers, eliminating racial
disparities in business ownership rates would narrow the wealth gap by
an additional 22% between Black and white households and by an
additional 17% between Latino and white households. Recognizing this
historic opportunity, in 2021, the President set a bold goal of
increasing the share of the more than $630 billion in contracting
dollars going to SDBs each year, including Black, Latino and Asian
American-owned small businesses, to 15% by 2025—or an increase of 50%
from 2010.

**Canceling student loan debt.** The Biden-Harris Administration also
today announced that it is canceling an additional $7.4 billion in
student loan debt for 277,000 borrowers. This brings the total amount of
debt relief approved by the Administration to $153 billion for 4.3
million Americans. Today’s announcement builds on the [President’s
announcement earlier this
week](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/04/08/president-joe-biden-outlines-new-plans-to-deliver-student-debt-relief-to-over-30-million-americans-under-the-biden-harris-administration/),
laying out his Administration’s plans that would cancel student debt for
tens of millions of Americans, if implemented as proposed. These plans
would cancel runaway interest for over 25 million borrowers, cancel loan
debt for borrowers eligible for forgiveness programs but not enrolled in
those programs, and cancel student debt for borrowers experiencing
hardship in their daily lives preventing them from paying back their
loans.

Black and Latino borrowers are more likely to experience growth in their
student loan balances due to excessive interest accumulation. Four years
after graduation, Black bachelor’s degree borrowers, on average, owe
more than they borrowed. These plans would not only help create more
financial stability for millions of working and middle-class families,
they would also help address the disproportionate debt burden on
communities of color and advance racial equity.

Today’s announcements build on the progress the President has made to
leverage the full force of the Federal Government—including with the
signing of two executive orders on advancing racial equity—in order to
ensure the promise of America for all communities, including Black
Americans. Here are just a few examples of how Bidenomics and the
President’s Investing in America agenda are already delivering for Black
Americans:

-   Under President Biden, the Black unemployment rate and gap between
    Black and white unemployment hit record lows. 
-   Black wealth is up 60% relative to pre-pandemic levels.
-   The share of Black business owners more than doubled between 2019
    and 2022.
-   Black-owned businesses are being created at the fastest rate in 30
    years.

\###
