---
date: '2024-04-30'
modified_time: 2024-04-30 07:50:50-04:00
published_time: 2024-04-30 05:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/04/30/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-delivers-on-permitting-progress-to-build-americas-infrastructure-and-clean-energy-future-faster-safer-and-cleaner/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Delivers on Permitting Progress\
  \ to Build America\u2019s Infrastructure and Clean Energy Future Faster, Safer,\
  \ and\_Cleaner"
---
 
*During the previous Administration, important projects stalled; Under
the Biden-Harris Administration, projects are moving more quickly*

President Biden’s Investing in America agenda is making
once-in-a-generation investments in America’s infrastructure and our
clean energy future that are creating good-paying and union jobs,
establishing and growing new industries in the United States, tackling
the climate crisis, and helping lower costs for families.  
   
To deploy these investments, the Biden-Harris Administration has taken
aggressive action to accelerate project permitting and environmental
reviews. The Administration has developed and is currently executing a
[Permitting Action
Plan](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/05/11/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-releases-permitting-action-plan-to-accelerate-and-deliver-infrastructure-projects-on-time-on-task-and-on-budget/);
secured $1 billion from the Inflation Reduction Act to improve
permitting; passed important reforms in the 2023 Fiscal Responsibility
Act that made commonsense changes to the environmental review process,
including setting deadlines for completion of reviews and making
documents more readable by limiting their length; and took a number of
administrative actions to simplify and accelerate the permitting
process. By taking these actions, the Administration is ensuring that
industry can move forward with key investments and projects, including
building out clean energy and transmission, while also being responsible
stewards of the environment and protecting communities.  
   
The Administration’s focus on reforming federal permitting has led to
real results. Thanks to President Biden’s leadership, the time to
complete the most extensive form of environmental review is already
coming down: agencies are completing a higher proportion of
environmental impact statements in under two years than under the
previous Administration. The Biden-Harris Administration is also
completing environmental assessments for projects faster than the
previous Administration – for example, data from the Department of
Transportation show that in the first three years, the Biden-Harris
Administration completed environmental assessments in an average of 9.6
months compared to 15.4 months for the same number of projects during
the Trump Administration.  
   
The Biden-Harris Administration is also expanding the use of categorical
exclusions, the fastest form of environmental review, bringing review
timelines down from months or years to a matter of weeks for projects
that have minimal environmental impacts. For example, over 99.5% of
federal highway projects were covered by categorical exclusions in
fiscal year 2022, meaning the vast majority of projects are moving
forward using these faster reviews. The Administration has also
[expanded the use of categorical
exclusions](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/ceq/news-updates/2023/09/19/biden-harris-administration-announces-first-actions-under-new-permitting-efficiencies-to-accelerate-american-manufacturing-and-clean-energy-future/)
to expedite permitting in key sectors such as EV charging, broadband,
CHIPS manufacturing, and clean energy projects.  
   
In addition, the Biden-Harris Administration has surpassed a major
renewable energy permitting goal more than 18 months ahead of schedule,
with the Department of the Interior (DOI) having permitted more than 25
gigawatts of clean energy projects on public lands well before a 2025
target date. DOI has also already approved the nation’s first 10
gigawatts of large-scale offshore wind projects, in support of the
President’s goal of deploying 30 gigawatts of offshore wind by 2030.  
   
The Administration is continuing to develop new tools to expedite
permitting of critical infrastructure, semiconductor manufacturing, and
clean energy projects. Today the White House Council on Environmental
Quality (CEQ) is finalizing the Bipartisan Permitting Reform
Implementation Rule, which simplifies and modernizes the federal
environmental review process while fully implementing the new
efficiencies Congress passed in the Fiscal Responsibility Act.  
  
The actions outlined below reflect the all-of-government effort the
Biden-Harris Administration has taken to accelerate federal permitting
across seven key sectors – offshore wind, onshore renewables,
transmission, transportation, semiconductors, broadband, and critical
minerals – while ensuring strong environmental protections and robust
community engagement.  
  
**<u>Finalizing the Bipartisan Permitting Reform Implementation
Rule</u>**  
   
**Modernizing federal environmental reviews.** The [Bipartisan
Permitting Reform Implementation
Rule](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/ceq/news-updates/2024/04/30/biden-harris-administration-finalizes-reforms-to-modernize-environmental-reviews-accelerate-americas-clean-energy-future-simplify-the-process-to-rebuild-our-nations-infrastructure/)
fully implements new efficiencies in agency environmental reviews under
the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) that the Administration
negotiated on a bipartisan basis and secured in the Fiscal
Responsibility Act of 2023. These efficiencies include setting clear
one- and two- year deadlines for agencies to complete environmental
reviews, requiring a lead agency and setting specific expectations for
lead and cooperating agencies, and creating a unified and coordinated
federal review process. The rule also provides agencies with other new
and faster tools to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of
environmental reviews. Together, these reforms will help accelerate
America’s clean energy future, rebuild our nation’s infrastructure,
strengthen our nation’s energy security, and deliver on the President’s
Investing in America agenda.

-   **Improve efficiency and speed:** The rule accelerates the
    deployment of clean energy, transmission, clean water, broadband,
    semiconductor manufacturing, and other crucial infrastructure by
    setting clear environmental review deadlines (generally no more than
    two years for environmental impact statements and one year for
    environmental assessments) and page limits as directed by the Fiscal
    Responsibility Act. Additional efficiencies include establishing new
    and more flexible methods for agencies to establish categorical
    exclusions to speed up projects without significant adverse effects
    — from geothermal exploration to vehicle charging infrastructure
    installation — and enabling lower levels of environmental review to
    accelerate approvals when a project sponsor or agency has opted to
    mitigate the effects of the project.  
-   **Addressing multiple priorities simultaneously rather than
    consecutively:** Consistent with the Fiscal Responsibility Act, the
    rule expands the use of programmatic environmental reviews, which
    allow agencies to review the environmental impacts of categories of
    projects to speed up approvals for specific projects. This will help
    speed the build-out of everything from semiconductor manufacturing
    to clean energy projects. The rule also promotes the use of shared
    environmental analysis to discourage duplication of effort.  
-   **Advance stronger environmental outcomes:** The rule addresses
    climate change, protects public health, and encourages better
    environmental outcomes by clarifying that agencies should consider
    climate change effects in environmental reviews and encourage
    identification of reasonable alternatives that will mitigate climate
    impacts. These provisions will help to ensure approvals are not only
    timely, but durable, because when environmental reviews are done
    right the first time, they won’t have to be redone later on and are
    less likely to face successful legal challenges.  
-   **Promote meaningful public input and best practices:** The rule
    helps ensure projects are built smart from the start by promoting
    early and meaningful engagement with communities, fostering
    community buy-in, reducing or avoiding conflict, and improving
    project design. The rule helps ensure projects are on a strong legal
    footing incorporating longstanding case law and best practices for
    collaboration and coordination across agencies, helping ensure
    projects move forward efficiently and with more certainty to deliver
    benefits to communities, workers, and project developers. Consistent
    with current best practices, it also directs agencies to consider
    environmental justice.

**<u>Reducing Bottlenecks Across Seven Key Sectors and Getting Results
with Projects </u>**  
  
**Accelerating <u>transmission</u> projects.** Last week, the
Biden-Harris Administration
[finalized](https://gcc02.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.energy.gov%2Farticles%2Fbiden-harris-administration-announces-final-transmission-permitting-rule-and-latest&data=05%7C02%7Cmelissa_schwartz%40ios.doi.gov%7Ccaf3f33aefed4d236d7408dc6732d1d3%7C0693b5ba4b184d7b9341f32f400a5494%7C0%7C0%7C638498715178844155%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C0%7C%7C%7C&sdata=UwlSgnEsgMcAukO0qyTByqISIQo31tlKBW1akHmEHqc%3D&reserved=0)
the Coordinated Interagency Transmission Authorizations and Permits
(CITAP) rule that will help improve the efficiency of the federal
permitting and authorization process for qualifying onshore transmission
facilities. The Department of Energy (DOE) CITAP program gives
transmission developers a new option for a streamlined federal review
process with a standard two-year schedule that can cut prior timeframes
in half for the most complex environmental reviews. For projects that
use existing transmission rights-of-way, such as advanced reconductoring
or siting solar or storage projects on previously developed areas, last
week the DOE also
[announced](https://gcc02.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.energy.gov%2Farticles%2Fdoe-reduces-regulatory-hurdles-energy-storage-transmission-and-solar-projects&data=05%7C02%7Cmelissa_schwartz%40ios.doi.gov%7Ccaf3f33aefed4d236d7408dc6732d1d3%7C0693b5ba4b184d7b9341f32f400a5494%7C0%7C0%7C638498715178853776%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C0%7C%7C%7C&sdata=L557N9ZS5pLxmk%2F2f%2B7ahkYob0jp1Gx0KHCo68rKTT0%3D&reserved=0)
new categorical exclusions, the most expedited form of environmental
reviews, which enables speedier DOE reviews for projects that have
minimal impact on the environment and public health. These recent steps
build on recent project-specific progress, such as:

-   **SunZia Southwest Transmission Project:** This project will
    transport up to 4,500 megawatts of primarily renewable energy from
    New Mexico to markets in Arizona and California. After prior reviews
    and changes to the project route, the Bureau of Land Management
    (BLM) completed the review for the permitted route in less than two
    years from notice of intent to record of decision, [announcing
    approval](https://www.doi.gov/pressreleases/biden-harris-administration-advances-sunzia-southwest-transmission-project)
    in May 2023.

**Speeding up <u>renewable energy</u> development on federal lands**. In
April, DOI [finalized a
rule](https://www.doi.gov/pressreleases/biden-harris-administration-delivers-historic-milestones-new-actions-clean-energy)
that facilitates efficient and responsible renewable energy development
by reducing fees for solar and wind projects on public lands by 80
percent—with additional incentives for use of project labor agreements
and American-made materials. The rule also streamlines the process for
the BLM to review applications in priority areas and delivers greater
predictability for industry on how the BLM will issue and manage future
leases for solar and wind development. This rule complements the BLM’s
ongoing efforts to update the Western Solar Plan through a
[Utility-Scale Solar Programmatic Environmental Impact
Statement](https://gcc02.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fblmsolar.anl.gov%2Fsolar-peis-2023%2F&data=05%7C02%7Cmelissa_schwartz%40ios.doi.gov%7Ccaf3f33aefed4d236d7408dc6732d1d3%7C0693b5ba4b184d7b9341f32f400a5494%7C0%7C0%7C638498715178860966%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C0%7C%7C%7C&sdata=ZM7vF%2FQreH9fzVuXjCddqAL5g1%2BPbtpD1NiJHkkiet4%3D&reserved=0),
with the goal of further streamlining the framework for siting solar
energy projects. Also in April, the BLM [adopted categorical
exclusions](https://gcc02.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.blm.gov%2Fpress-release%2Fblm-adopts-categorical-exclusions-expedite-geothermal-energy-permitting&data=05%7C02%7Cmelissa_schwartz%40ios.doi.gov%7Ccaf3f33aefed4d236d7408dc6732d1d3%7C0693b5ba4b184d7b9341f32f400a5494%7C0%7C0%7C638498715178866592%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C0%7C%7C%7C&sdata=Lppi7GnWXBb04ZnSmiA5weOBefou5W59gVhj6XEQtiI%3D&reserved=0)
from the U.S. Forest Service and Department of the Navy to expedite the
review and approval of geothermal energy exploration on public lands.
These actions will help clean energy projects get permitted more
quickly. The BLM continues to track progress through an [online
dashboard](https://gcc02.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.blm.gov%2Fprograms%2Fenergy-and-minerals%2Frenewable-energy%2Factive-renewable-projects&data=05%7C02%7Cmelissa_schwartz%40ios.doi.gov%7Ccaf3f33aefed4d236d7408dc6732d1d3%7C0693b5ba4b184d7b9341f32f400a5494%7C0%7C0%7C638498715178872115%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C0%7C%7C%7C&sdata=gud5KNHnCDzKk8EeNoSXqNQf7vfvcwIvPNXMuEVpzbU%3D&reserved=0).
In addition to this work, several projects are moving forward including:

-   **Dry Lake East Energy Center Solar Project:** Earlier this month,
    the BLM
    [announced](https://gcc02.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.blm.gov%2Fpress-release%2Fblm-approves-dry-lake-east-energy-center-solar-project-nevada&data=05%7C02%7Cmelissa_schwartz%40ios.doi.gov%7Ccaf3f33aefed4d236d7408dc6732d1d3%7C0693b5ba4b184d7b9341f32f400a5494%7C0%7C0%7C638498715178877592%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C0%7C%7C%7C&sdata=D4wjMN4unKrd0Za0q41%2FqCN4qkeHnN9aao3%2FrDILBWo%3D&reserved=0)
    approval of this solar and storage project in the Las Vegas region
    designed to generate up to 200 megawatts of clean electricity for
    the Nevada grid. BLM started an environmental assessment in 2023 and
    the project was approved a year later in 2024.    
-   **Cape Station Exploration Drilling Geothermal Energy Project**:
    Cape Station is a geothermal energy project set to deliver 400
    megawatts of carbon-free electricity in Beaver County, Utah. BLM
    completed the environmental assessment for the project within three
    months working closely with the developer, nearby communities, and
    state, county and local governments.

**Accelerating <u>offshore wind</u> permitting and delivering the
nation’s first large-scale projects.** Last week DOI [announced a final
rule](https://www.doi.gov/pressreleases/interior-department-finalizes-rule-streamline-and-modernize-offshore-renewable-energy)
that is expected to save offshore wind developers about $1.9 billion
over 20 years by modernizing regulations for renewable energy
development. DOI’s Bureau of Ocean Energy Management (BOEM) is also
developing programmatic environmental impact statements for the [New
York
Bight](https://gcc02.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.boem.gov%2Fnewsroom%2Fpress-releases%2Fboem-announces-draft-environmental-review-future-development-wind-lease&data=05%7C02%7Cmelissa_schwartz%40ios.doi.gov%7Ccaf3f33aefed4d236d7408dc6732d1d3%7C0693b5ba4b184d7b9341f32f400a5494%7C0%7C0%7C638498715178884089%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C0%7C%7C%7C&sdata=1wgQnuYUC0TCS2NooaYEJOf80F4x%2FQYmi0NRpNDJTGg%3D&reserved=0)
and
[California](https://gcc02.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.boem.gov%2Fnewsroom%2Fpress-releases%2Fboem-announces-environmental-review-future-development-california-offshore&data=05%7C02%7Cmelissa_schwartz%40ios.doi.gov%7Ccaf3f33aefed4d236d7408dc6732d1d3%7C0693b5ba4b184d7b9341f32f400a5494%7C0%7C0%7C638498715178889877%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C0%7C%7C%7C&sdata=Aofrk%2B4ax2r83TuyCp0dGLdshKoZnKKnlHcq7amFndc%3D&reserved=0)
offshore wind lease areas, to streamline individual project reviews.
Additionally, BOEM and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration issued a [joint
strategy](https://gcc02.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.noaa.gov%2Fnews-release%2Fnoaa-boem-announce-final-north-atlantic-right-whale-and-offshore-wind-strategy&data=05%7C02%7Cmelissa_schwartz%40ios.doi.gov%7Ccaf3f33aefed4d236d7408dc6732d1d3%7C0693b5ba4b184d7b9341f32f400a5494%7C0%7C0%7C638498715178895350%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C0%7C%7C%7C&sdata=6Hx5BrlN1oaDWjHDXfYb0vZo8uU7fMM99R0snQiv9og%3D&reserved=0)
to protect and promote the recovery of endangered North Atlantic right
whales while responsibly developing offshore wind energy, and are
deploying Inflation Reduction Act funding and working with industry and
environmental stakeholders to advance whale detection and monitoring
technologies.  
  
These efforts will help continue a strong track record of responsible
permitting progress. BOEM has already issued approvals for eight
commercial-scale offshore wind projects—up from zero approved when
President Biden took office. These eight project approvals total more
than 10 gigawatts of offshore wind energy, enough to power nearly four
million homes. South Fork Wind off New York recently finished
construction, Vineyard Wind off Massachusetts has delivered its first
power, and several other projects are expected to have construction
milestones this year. An example project:

-   **Coastal Virginia Offshore Wind:** Under the Biden-Harris
    Administration, the [Coastal Virginia Offshore Wind
    project](https://gcc02.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.boem.gov%2Frenewable-energy%2Fstate-activities%2FCVOW-C&data=05%7C02%7Cmelissa_schwartz%40ios.doi.gov%7Ccaf3f33aefed4d236d7408dc6732d1d3%7C0693b5ba4b184d7b9341f32f400a5494%7C0%7C0%7C638498715178900740%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C0%7C%7C%7C&sdata=kd5NL8%2F0Abk8qgq1Nyzoqgm%2BdSDAMOU5TuSq51V4cNc%3D&reserved=0)
    completed all federal reviews and authorizations, including a record
    of decision from BOEM in October 2023, roughly 10 months faster than
    the Vineyard Wind and South Fork projects, which initiated review in
    2018 under the previous Administration and did not reach approval
    until 2021 under this Administration.

**Accelerating construction of <u>high-speed internet</u> projects.** In
March, the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation [extended a
process](https://www.achp.gov/news/achp-announces-program-comment-amendment-support-president-bidens-broadband-initiative)
for faster historic preservation reviews for communications
infrastructure projects on federal lands to *all* such projects both on
and off federal lands. This action will shorten historic preservation
reviews from over a year to less than three months. In addition, in
April, the Department of Commerce’s National Telecommunications and
Information Administration (NTIA) [established and adopted a total of 36
new categorical
exclusions](https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2024/04/02/2024-06751/national-environmental-policy-act-procedures-and-categorical-exclusions)
that will unlock faster reviews for projects that do not have
significant environmental effects. NTIA also developed and released a
[permitting and environmental mapping
tool](https://www.ntia.gov/press-release/2024/ntia-launches-permitting-and-environmental-mapping-tool)
to help grant recipients and others deploying infrastructure for
high-speed Internet service to identify permit requirements and avoid
potential environmental impacts. In addition, also in April, DOI issued
a [final
rule](https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2024/04/12/2024-06997/update-of-the-communications-uses-program-cost-recovery-fee-schedules-and-section-512-of-flpma-for)
to streamline approvals of broadband projects on BLM managed lands.
Other projects are moving forward, such as:

-   **DMCI Broadband:** In October 2022 the U.S. Department of
    Agriculture awarded $6 million—through President Biden’s Bipartisan
    Infrastructure Law—to DMCI broadband in Michigan to be used to
    deploy a fiber-to-the-premises network to connect 2,899 people, 94
    farms, 56 businesses, and four educational facilities to high-speed
    internet in Branch and Hillsdale counties in Michigan. After being
    awarded funding in 2022, the environmental review and approval took
    less than two months.

**Executing on environmental reviews for CHIPS Act-funded
<u>semiconductor</u> fabrication plants.** The Department of Commerce
quickly took action, building an environmental team for the CHIPS
office, which has [adopted 11 categorical
exclusions](https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2023/09/20/2023-20303/adoption-of-department-of-energy-categorical-exclusions-under-the-national-environmental-policy-act)
from the Department of Energy and initiated a programmatic environmental
assessment that will enable qualifying projects to quickly move through
necessary environmental approvals. An example project:

-   **BAE Systems:** In December 2023, BAE Systems Electronic Systems
    signed a non-binding preliminary memorandum of terms (PMT) for
    approximately $35 million in federal incentives under President
    Biden’s CHIPS and Science Act to support the modernization of the
    company’s Microelectronics Center in Nashua, New Hampshire. The
    project will replace aging tools and quadruple the production of
    chips necessary for critical defense programs. This project
    completed environmental review in just 31 days using a categorical
    exclusion.

**Streamlining <u>critical mineral permitting</u>:** Last year, the
Permitting Council announced the first mining project that will receive
FAST-41 coverage. FAST-41 coverage will allow critical mineral projects
– which are vital to the clean energy transition – to apply for FAST-41
permitting assistance and benefit from facilitated coordination between
the project sponsor, the lead agency, and the other Federal agencies
that will play a cooperating role on the project’s environmental review.
This ensures the project has a clear timetable and coordinated approvals
process. Other mining projects are moving forward, including:

-   **Gibellini Vanadium** **Mine**: The Gibellini Project, located in
    Eureka County, Nevada, will help provide the critical mineral
    vanadium, which is an important component in lightweight steel and
    has the potential to increase the life and reduce the cost of
    batteries when used in utility-scale wind and solar projects. This
    was the first primary vanadium mine to be permitted in the United
    States.

**Accelerating and streamlining permitting for <u>transportation
projects</u>.** To expedite the environmental review of federally-funded
electric vehicle (EV) charging station sites, the Department of
Transportation (DOT) adopted a DOE EV charging station categorical
exclusion, accelerating environmental review processes for state and
local governments seeking to build EV charging infrastructure. The
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation also
[exempted](https://www.achp.gov/digital-library-section-106-landing/exemption-historic-preservation-review-electric-vehicle-supply)
most federally-funded or federally-permitted EV charging infrastructure
from historic preservation reviews because it found that the effects of
these activities are known and not significant. Earlier this month, DOT
also announced its [Modernizing NEPA
Challenge](/www.challenge.gov/%3fchallenge=modernizing-nepa-challenge%3c)
to encourage project sponsors to publish interactive environmental
review documents that increase accessibility, transparency and use plain
language. These online tools will save time and improve the quality of
documents through collaborative, real-time reviews between the public
and agencies participating in a project’s environmental review process.
Other projects are moving forward, including:

-   **Gateway Hudson Tunnel Project:** This project, funded by the
    Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, will construct a new Hudson River
    Tunnel between New York and New Jersey and rehabilitate the
    110-year-old rail tunnel that carries 200,000 passenger trips per
    day on New Jersey Transit and Amtrak along the Northeast Corridor.
    When the Obama Administration started the environmental review for
    this project it was slated to be finished [in less than two
    years,](https://www.permits.performance.gov/permitting-project/dot-projects/hudson-tunnel-project)
    but the previous Administration sat on the final review. The review
    was completed within the first five months of the Biden-Harris
    Administration and construction broke ground in 2023 on both sides
    of the Hudson River.

**<u>Investing in the Resources for Success</u>**  
  
Thanks to President Biden’s Inflation Reduction Act, the Administration
has had the opportunity to bring on the staff and begin development of
the technology needed to execute and streamline permitting and
environmental reviews.  
  
**The Administration quickly deployed additional resources to hire the
Federal staff needed to achieve our permitting goals.** Twelve agencies
covering all seven sectors received funding to hire the necessary
personnel. To date, the Permitting Council has allocated over $165
million from President Biden’s Inflation Reduction Act appropriation to
support federal agencies, including through staff positions that will
help deliver more timely and efficient reviews and permits. Together we
have increased the permitting workforce by 14%. In addition, the
Permitting Council has made $5 million available to Tribal governments
to support Tribal engagement in the environmental review and
authorization process for FAST-41 covered projects.  
  
**Adopting new technology and tools to improve federal environmental
review and permitting processes.** Timely, informative environmental
reviews that are guided by the best available science and help deliver
positive environmental and community impacts will be improved with
better technology. Yesterday, the Permitting Council [announced $30
million in
investments](https://www.permits.performance.gov/fpisc-content/biden-harris-administration-announces-new-investment-innovative-technologies-improve)
to agencies to help them complete timely environmental reviews and
permits. These investments will facilitate meaningful public involvement
and support agencies to better manage complex analysis and
decision-making.  
  
**<u>Promoting Stakeholder Engagement and Positive Community
Outcomes</u>**  
  
The Biden-Harris Administration is committed to ensuring strong
environmental protections and robust community engagement as it works to
accelerate federal permitting. In line with the President’s commitment
to environmental justice, the Administration is working to ensure
projects are built smart from the start by promoting early and
meaningful engagement with communities, which fosters community buy-in,
helps reduce or avoid conflict, and improves project design while
protecting communities from pollution and environmental harms that can
result from poor planning and decision making. Accelerating federal
permitting is also crucial to advancing the President’s [Justice40
Initiative](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/environmentaljustice/justice40/),
which set a goal that 40% of the overall benefits of certain federal
climate, clean energy, affordable and sustainable housing, and other
investments flow to disadvantaged communities that are marginalized by
underinvestment and overburdened by pollution. Some examples of the
Administration’s work to promote community engagement include:  

-   Through the new Bipartisan Permitting Reform Implementation Rule,
    **agencies are directed to consider environmental justice in
    environmental reviews** and—for the first time in the regulations,
    but consistent with current best practices— the rule encourages
    agencies to incorporate measures to avoid or reduce disproportionate
    effects on communities with environmental justice concerns,
    including the cumulative effects of pollution. The rule also
    requires agencies to identify a **Chief Engagement Officer** that
    will be responsible for facilitating the agency’s community
    engagement for environmental reviews, making federal decisions more
    accessible and transparent to interested communities. Additionally,
    the rule ensures that Tribal Nations have opportunities to
    meaningfully engage in the environmental review process.  
-   Federal agencies are prioritizing community input and engagement.
    For example, the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) has reinstated all
    100 of its **Resource Advisory Committees** during this
    Administration. These local advisory committees provide invaluable
    support to BLM and lead to sustainable outcomes as a result of
    community buy-in and engagement.  
-   The Advisory Council on Historic Preservation issued a [**Policy
    Statement on Indigenous Knowledge and Historic
    Preservation**](https://www.achp.gov/sites/default/files/policies/2024-03/PolicyStatementonIndigenousKnowledgeandHistoricPreservation21March2024.pdf).
    These principles place an emphasis on respecting Indigenous
    Knowledge in all aspects of the agency’s regulatory process and
    developing and maintaining a positive and mutually beneficial
    relationship with Tribal Nations, Native Hawaiian organizations, and
    other Indigenous Peoples. The policy also calls on the preservation
    community to ensure the appropriate amount of time and resources are
    dedicated to the identification, documentation, utilization,
    management, and safeguarding of Indigenous Knowledge, along with
    developing guidance to inform these activities.

*\###*
