---
date: '2024-04-19'
published_time: 2024-04-19 22:47:09-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/04/19/statement-from-president-joe-biden-on-uaw-vote-in-tennessee/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement from President Joe\_Biden on UAW Vote in\_Tennessee"
---
 
Congratulations to the workers at Volkswagen in Chattanooga, Tennessee,
on their historic vote for union representation with the United Auto
Workers. I was proud to stand alongside auto workers in their successful
fight for record contracts, and I am proud to stand with auto
workers now as they successfully organize at Volkswagen. Across the
country, union members have logged major wins and large raises,
including auto workers, actors, port workers, Teamsters, writers,
warehouse and health care workers, and more. Together, these union wins
have helped raise wages and demonstrate once again that the middle-class
built America and that unions are still building and expanding the
middle class for all workers.

Six Republican governors wrote a letter attempting to influence workers’
votes by falsely claiming that a successful vote would jeopardize jobs
in their states. Let me be clear to the Republican governors that tried
to undermine this vote: there is nothing to fear from American workers
using their voice and their legal right to form a union if they so
choose. In fact, the growing strength of unions over the last year has
gone hand-in-hand with record small business and jobs growth alongside
the longest stretch of low unemployment in more than 50 years. I will
continue to stand with American workers and stand
against Republican’s effort to weaken workers’ voice.  

\###
