---
date: '2024-04-09'
modified_time: 2024-04-09 12:22:23-04:00
published_time: 2024-04-09 05:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/04/09/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-highlights-substantial-progress-on-the-presidents-care-agenda-during-month-of-action-on-care/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Highlights Substantial Progress\
  \ on the President\u2019s Care Agenda During Month of Action on\_Care"
---
 
During [Care Workers Recognition
Month](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/03/29/a-proclamation-on-care-workers-recognition-month-2024/),
the Biden-Harris Administration is marking the progress we have made to
make care more affordable for American families, support family
caregivers, boost compensation and job quality for care workers, and
expand care options. Today, President Biden will be joined by care
workers and unions as he lays out how he will build on that progress
with transformational investments in child care, home care, paid family
and medical leave, tax cuts for workers and families, and other
priorities, which are fully paid for by making the wealthy and big
corporations pay their fair share in taxes. That is in sharp contrast
with congressional Republicans, who would make devastating cuts to
funding for care, healthcare, Social Security, and Medicare to pay for
massive tax cuts for billionaires and big corporations.

**<u>The Need to Improve Care</u>**

Too many families and individuals struggle to access the affordable,
high-quality care they need. The cost of child care is up 26% in the
last decade and more than 200% over the past 30 years. For older adults
and people with disabilities, long-term care costs are up 40% over the
past decade. As a result, the cost of care is out of reach for many
Americans. At the same time, care workers—who are disproportionately
women of color—struggle to make ends meet, even as they care for others.
Due to the low pay and the demanding nature of care work, turnover rates
are high. In addition, at least 53 million Americans serve as family
caregivers—including over 5 million caring for service members or
veterans—and many face challenges due to the lack of support, training,
and respite.

**<u>The President’s Plan to Lower Costs for Families for Care</u>**

The President has made child care, long-term care, family caregiving,
and paid leave a core part of his domestic and economic agendas. He has
referenced these issues in each of his State of the Union Addresses, and
proposed transformative investments in each budget. The President’s most
recent budget proposes the following:

***Affordable, High-Quality Child Care and Universal Preschool***

High-quality early childhood education improves the lives of both
children and their parents. The President’s child care plan provides a
lifeline to the parents of more than 16 million children by guaranteeing
affordable, high-quality child care from birth until kindergarten for
low- and middle-income working families. Right now, the average price of
child care is nearly $11,000 a year, with low-income families paying as
much as a third of their income for child care. Under the President’s
plan, most families would pay $10 per day, saving the average family
over $600 per child, per month. The budget also invests in free,
voluntary, universal preschool for all of the nation’s 4-year-olds and
charts a path to expand preschool to 3-year-olds. Together, these
investments will make early care and education programs affordable and
available where families live and work in communities across the
country, increase wages for early childhood education workers, and
strengthen the economy.

***Child Tax Credit***

The President’s Budget would restore the expanded Child Tax Credit,
lifting 3 million children out of poverty and cutting taxes by an
average of $2,600 for 39 million low- and middle-income families that
include 66 million children. This includes 18 million children in
low-income families who would be newly eligible for the full credit, and
2 million children living with a caregiver who is at least 60 years old.
It would also provide breathing room for day-to-day expenses by allowing
families to receive their tax credit through monthly payments.

***Long-term Care and Family Caregiving***

The President is committed to protecting older adults’ and people with
disabilities’ health and dignity. His plan would invest in expanding
Medicaid home and community-based services to help a larger number of
older adults and people with disabilities receive care in their home or
community, and promote better opportunities for home care workers and
family caregivers. There has been substantial growth amongst the younger
population under 65 with disabilities living in nursing homes. The
percentage of individuals younger than 65 living in residential nursing
facilities grew from 10.6 in 2000 to 16.2 in 2017. The President’s
investments will help ensure that they can receive care in their own
homes and communities. The President has also proposed substantial
investments for family caregivers serving our nation’s heroes, including
stipends and support services for family caregivers of eligible
veterans.

***A National Paid Family and Medical Leave Program***

Many workers with caregiving responsibilities are forced to leave the
workforce intermittently or permanently to take care of their loved
ones. As of March 2022, only 24% of private sector workers in the United
States had access to paid family leave through their employer and only
43% had access to short-term disability insurance through their
employer. The President proposes a national, comprehensive paid family
and medical leave program, administered by the Social Security
Administration (SSA) to ensure that all workers can take time off to
care for and bond with a new child; care for a seriously ill loved one;
heal from their own serious illness; address circumstances arising from
a loved one’s military deployment; or find safety from domestic
violence, sexual assault, or stalking; or grieve the death of a loved
one.  The vast majority of America’s workers do not have access to
employer-provided paid family leave, including 73 percent of private
sector workers. Among the lowest-paid workers, who are
disproportionately women and workers of color, 94 percent lack access to
paid family leave through their employers. Some people’s caregiving
responsibilities are so demanding that under the current system they
have to give up paid work entirely or retire early to take care of their
loved ones.

**<u>The Biden-Harris Administration’s Historic Actions on Care</u>**

Since day one of the Administration, President Biden and Vice President
Harris have been committed to improving the quality of and access to
care while supporting care workers and family caregivers. The
President’s American Rescue Plan (ARP) provided an historic $39 billion
in child care relief funds to provide relief for child care providers
and support for families to afford care. The ARP delivered $37 billion
across all 50 states for activities and investments that enhance,
expand, and strengthen home and community-based services and
$145 million to help the National Family Caregiver Support Program
deliver counseling, training, and short-term relief to family and other
informal care providers. Moreover, over the past three years, the
President has secured close to a 50% increase in federal child care
assistance and a $1.5 billion increase in funding for Head Start. And in
April 2023, President Biden signed an Executive Order on Increasing
Access to High-Quality Care and Supporting Caregivers (Care EO)
surrounded by people with disabilities, family caregivers, long-term
care workers, early educators, veterans, and aging advocates. The EO was
celebrated by leaders from across the country. Over the past year,
agencies have made substantial progress implementing the Care EO. For
example:  

-   The Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), through the
    Administration for Children & Families (ACF), finalized a rule that
    will reduce the cost of child care for more than 100,000 low-income
    working families and make sure that more than 140,000 child care
    providers are paid more fairly and on-time. It also proposed a rule
    that would boost Head Start teacher wages by $10,000, on average.
-   For child care providers serving families benefiting from federal
    child care assistance, HHS, through ACF, adopted a pay floor that
    will increase child care payments for nearly 47,000 center- and
    home-based child care providers.
-   HHS, through the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services,
    proposed rules to ensure that home care workers get a bigger share
    of Medicaid payments; and establish minimum staffing standards in
    nursing homes receiving Medicare and Medicaid funding.
-   The Department of Defense reduced the amounts that lower-earning
    Service members pay out of pocket for child care, lowering child
    care costs for the families of more than 32,000 children aged 0-12
    enrolled in installation Child Development Programs. Military
    Families earning $45,000 would see a 34% decrease in the amount they
    pay for child care. This also builds on the President’s Executive
    Order to advance the economic security of military spouses,
    veterans, caregivers and survivors.
-   The Department of Veterans Affairs launched a pilot program, known
    as the Virtual Psychotherapy Program for Caregivers, to provide
    mental health counseling services to family caregivers caring for
    our nation’s heroes. The program successfully completed its pilot
    phase and is now a permanent program. Since October 2023, the
    program has provided over 4,937 psychotherapy sessions to family
    caregivers.

In addition to these actions, federal agencies have taken dozens of
others over the past year to improve family caregiving, long-term care,
and child care. A full list can be found
[here](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/04/Progress-Summary.pdf).

**<u>Republican Officials Want to Provide Massive Taxes Cuts to the Rich
while Making Devastating Cuts to Programs Working Families Count
On</u>**

President Biden is building our economy from the middle out and bottom
up—an economy where we invest in all Americans to make sure the middle
class has a fair shot and no one gets left behind.

House Republicans have a very different economic vision. Under the RSC
budget, care would be on the cutting block. Their budget proposal
translates to 264,600 fewer child care slots and 253,500 fewer
high-quality Head Start slots. These investments are critical to giving
children a strong start and making sure that families have the help they
need to thrive.

Along with damaging cuts to care funding, House Republicans would slash
Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, the Affordable Care Act, the
Children’s Health Insurance Program, and other supports that working
families count on. House Republicans would make these devastating cuts
to pay for another $5.5 trillion in tax cuts skewed to the wealthy and
big corporations. Their budget would deliver windfall tax cuts to
billionaires and their heirs, eliminate the minimum tax on
billion-dollar corporations President Biden signed into law, make it
easier for the wealthy and corporations to cheat on their taxes, and
preserve policies that encourage corporations to move jobs and profits
offshore—all while making it more difficult for families to afford child
care and education.

\###
