---
date: '2024-04-29'
modified_time: 2024-04-30 17:19:33-04:00
published_time: 2024-04-29 17:05:41-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/04/29/background-press-call-on-the-national-security-memorandum-on-critical/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Background Press Call on the National Security Memorandum on\_Critical"
---
 
Via Teleconference

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  And thank you, everyone, for joining today’s
call this afternoon to preview the upcoming National Security Memorandum
on Critical Infrastructure.  On today’s call, we have Caitlin Durkovich,
Deputy Assistant to the President and Deputy Homeland Security Advisor
for Resilience and Response and Jen Easterly, Director of the
Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency.

Just a few remarks at the top.  Opening remarks from our two speakers
here will be on the record.  The following Q&A portion of the call will
be on background and speakers will then be attributed at “senior
administration officials.”  The call will also be held under embargo
until 10:00 a.m. Eastern tomorrow morning.  And by participating in
today’s call, you are agreeing to these ground rules.

I will now turn the call over to Caitlin to kick us off.

MS. DURKOVICH:  Thank you very much, Michael.  And good afternoon,
everyone.

Tomorrow, President Biden will sign a national security memorandum or
NSM to enhance the security and resilience of U.S. critical
infrastructure from the rapidly evolving threat environment. 

This is part of what we refer to as our all-hazards approach to the
resilience of the nation.  This new policy will replace a decade-old
presidential policy document on critical infrastructure protection that
was issued during the Obama administration and launch a
whole-of-government effort to protect U.S. critical infrastructure
against all current and future hazards, including climate change and
threats from nation-state actors.

As background, the effort to draft this new policy began over a year ago
and the process has included significant input from the private sector;
our state, local, Tribal, and territorial partners; and other
stakeholders and critical infrastructure experts from across the
country.

The NSM takes several important new actions.  First, it empowers the
Department of Homeland Security to lead a whole-of-government effort to
secure U.S. critical infrastructure with the Cybersecurity and
Infrastructure Security Agency acting as the national coordinator for
the security and resilience of U.S. critical infrastructure.

As part of this new responsibility, the Secretary of Homeland Security
will be required to submit to the President a biennial National Risk
Management Plan that summarizes U.S. government efforts to mitigate
risks to the nation’s critical infrastructure.

Second, it directs the U.S. intelligence community, consistent with the
goals outlined in the 2023 National Intelligence Strategy, to collect,
produce, and share intelligence and information with the owners and
operators of critical infrastructure.  The NSM recognizes private sector
owners and operators of critical infrastructure are often our first line
of defense against adversaries who target the nation’s most critical
assets and systems.

Third, it reaffirms the designation of 16 critical infrastructure
sectors and specifies which federal departments or agencies are
responsible for managing risks within each of those sectors.

Fourth, it elevates the importance of minimum security and resilience
requirements within and across critical infrastructure sectors
consistent with the National Cyber Strategy, which recognizes the limits
of a voluntary approach to risk management in the current threat
environment.  It is important that we work together to set baseline
security standards for the lifeline sectors on which the American way of
life and our democracy depends.

The policy is particularly relevant today, given continued disruptive
ransomware attacks, cyberattacks on U.S. water systems by our
adversaries, and the frequent and repeated testimony of the FBI Director
and other senior administration officials who have sounded the alarm
about the ways our critical infrastructure is being targeted by our
adversaries.

I’m joined on the call today by \[senior administration official\], who
— in addition to being an essential partner in drafting the policy,
along with Director Easterly and her team — can answer more questions
about these cyberattacks.

Let me conclude by underscoring that America faces an era of strategic
competition where state actors will continue to target American critical
infrastructure and tolerate or enable malicious activity conducted by
non-state actors. 

In the event of crisis or conflict, we know that America’s adversaries
may attempt to compromise our critical infrastructure to undermine the
will of the American public and impede the projection of U.S. military
power abroad.  Resilience, particularly for our most sensitive assets
and systems, is the cornerstone of homeland defense and security.

And with that, I have the pleasure of turning it over to my colleague,
Director Easterly, to talk more about the role of the Cybersecurity and
Infrastructure Security Agency in this effort. 

Jen, over to you.

MS. EASTERLY:  Fantastic.  Thanks so much, Caitlin.  And good afternoon,
everybody.  I am really pleased to be there — to be here today.  It is a
very important moment for our nation’s critical infrastructure. 

As Caitlin alluded to, the threat environment has changed significantly
since PPD-21 was issued in 2013, shifting from counterterrorism to
strategic competition, advances in technology like artificial
intelligence, and malicious cyber activity from nation-state actors.

And in addition, since that period of time in 2013, the USG has
significantly invested in critical infrastructure to include the
establishment of CISA, the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security
Agency. 

So, this NSM really builds on important work that has been happening
across the government and, in particular, CISA and agencies, working
with industry undertaking a partnership to ensure that we can
understand, manage, and reduce risk to the cyber and physical
infrastructure that Americans rely on every hour of every day.

For CISA, the NSM means three things.  First, CISA’s role as national
coordinator, which really reinforces what was in the CISA statute of
2018.  And this responsibility requires CISA to coordinate that national
effort to secure and protect critical infrastructure by coordinating
with the sector risk management agencies with relevant departments and
agencies, the private sector, state and local partners to reduce risk at
scale. 

And in this role, CISA develops guidance and provides risk assessments,
cross-sector risk analysis, information sharing, and capacity building
for government partners and for critical infrastructure owners and
operators across the nation.

Second, CISA serves as an SRMA itself, providing institutional knowledge
and specialized expertise for the eight critical infrastructure sectors
and one subsector — and that includes chemical, commercial facilities,
critical manufacturing, emergency services, information technology,
communication, dams, nuclear, and then, of course, the election
subsector.  And in this role, we support sector risk management, assess
sector risk, and we share information on physical and cyber threats. 

Finally, CISA will continue to support the work of our partners across
the USG by leveraging existing relationships and processes and networks
to share critical information and guidance and then provide additional
guidance and resources to aid sector risk management agencies in the
execution of the roles and responsibilities in the new NSM. 

And I’ll say the good news is that the work that is being directed in
the NSM is underway.  We’ve already reestablished the Federal Senior
Leadership Council, known as the FSLC, and made impressive strides
through robust collaborations across the interagency. 

And so, that is a heavy lift, but work is already being done to define,
modernize, and protect our critical infrastructure sectors. 

In addition, as part of our role as national coordinator, we’ve already
provided guidance and templates to sector risk management agencies to
use in creating sector risk assessments and sector-specific risk
management plans.  And these are a resource for SRMAs to meet the
requirements laid out in the NSM. 

And then, finally, in our role as national coordinator, we’ve began the
work to establish systemically important entities — that critical
infrastructure, which is prioritized based on the potential for
disruption or malfunction to cause nationally significant and cascading
negative impacts to national security and economic security or public
health and safety.  That SIE list will inform prioritization of federal
activities, including risk mitigation efforts and other operational
resources to non-federal entities. 

So, we are very excited to see this NSM hit the street.  And we look
forward to our role as the national coordinator for critical
infrastructure resilience and security and emphasizing that in all the
work that we do. 

Thank you.

MODERATOR:  Thank you, Director Easterly. 

We will now move on to the Q&A portion.  As a reminder, this portion of
the call will be on background and attributed to “senior administration
officials.” 

We also have two other speakers on the line for this portion, \[senior
administration official\] and \[senior administration official\]. 

And again, everyone will be attributed as “senior administration
official.” 

<s>Moderator</s> \[Operator\], I think we’re ready to open it up for
Q&A.  And then I’ll just ask if you could just go to the first
questioner when — when they ask their question.  Thank you.

Q    Hey.  Thank you all for holding this. 

I just wanted to clarify.  You said this reaffirms the current 16
critical infrastructure sectors.  Does that mean that the status quo —
like, that no new infrastructure sectors were added?  And if so, did —
in crafting this, were there deliberations or considerations to add new
critical infrastructure sectors, like space?

Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  David, it’s \[senior administration
official\].  Thank you very much for that question.  And I’ll take the
first part of it, which is: Yes, it, again, reaffirms the 16 critical
infrastructure sectors.  There are no changes.

I’m going to turn it over to \[senior administration official\] to let
her kind of talk about the process that was undertaken to do the
evaluation and to make the recommendations that the current structure
remain the same. 

So, \[senior administration official\].

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, absolutely. 

Some will remember that in the FY 2021 NDAA, Congress essentially asked
us to establish a process to regularly review and modify critical
infrastructure, the sector structure at least every five years. 

And we undertook that process through and produced a report: the 9002(b)
Report.  And then, based on the findings in that report, we worked with
the Federal Senior Leadership Council to look at and revalidate both the
sectors themselves, as well as the Sector Risk Management Agency. 

And so, over a period of about the last year, we worked extensively and
consultatively with all of those sector risk management agencies, and we
ended with validating the 16 sectors and the sector risk management
agencies. 

So, a lot of work went into it, but I think the takeaway is that the
processes that had been developed over the past decade to articulate
those critical infrastructure sectors were sound processes, and we’ll
continue to use that Federal Senior Leadership Council as the central
coordinating body as we look to implement all the tasks in the national
security memorandum.

Q    Hi.  I wanted to see if you could elaborate more on (inaudible)
entities and how you are addressing the Section 9 entities that were
originally in the PPD-21 NSM back in 2013.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, I’m happy to take that, \[senior
administration official\], if you like. 

So, as you’ll see —

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  As you’ll see in the NSM, part of our
role is to establish the systemically important entities, and I
mentioned the specific role.  So, we’ve actually been working on that
over the past several years, since the Cyberspace Solarium Commission
had written a report on what they called “SICI” — systemically important
critical infrastructure. 

So, this will, in effect, replace what were the Section 9 entities.  And
we were very deliberate about working with the SMRAs to ensure that we
were highlighting those entities across all of the sectors that are most
critical to national security, economic security, and public health or
safety in particular that could cause significant and cascading negative
impacts. 

So, that list is about — it’s less than 500 entities, but — and we’ve
been working to and we’re finalizing revalidating that with industry as
well.  And similar to the Section 9 list, we, of course, are not going
to make that public.

However, we’re working very closely with SRMAs and industry to ensure
that those particular entities are — we’re working closely with them to
ensure they have the resources necessary to manage risk. 

And I think the last thing I’d mentioned is Caitlin highlighted the
importance of minimum standards for security.  So, we’ll be looking at
those entities, in particular, with an eye towards the importance of
establishing minimum cybersecurity standards.

MODERATOR:  I think we’re ready to go to the next question.

Q    Thank you.  Jason Miller, Federal News Network.  Quick question. 
You mentioned the sharing of information.  One of the big challenges has
been with critical infrastructure over the years is sharing classified
or sensitive but unclassified information because of security clearance
challenges.  What does the national security memorandum or what are you
doing to address that ongoing issue to get enough people with enough
information enough security clearances so they can actually act on it or
has that been relatively solved over last few years?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I’m happy to start.  And certainly,
\[senior administration official\], please jump in.  Thanks for the
question, Jason. 

So, as you probably know, we run the private sector clearance program
for the government, so we work to get private-sector entities their
clearances, and we have a pretty robust process to ensure that, if
necessary, we can get private-sector partners cleared in. 

I would say a couple of things, however.  Kudos to the intelligence
community.  And we saw this around the Russian full-scale invasion of
Ukraine.  A lot of the information that critical infrastructure owners
and operators needed to understand the threat and to take urgent action
to improve the security and resilience of their infrastructure from
potential retaliatory attacks by the Russian government, some of that
information was helpfully declassified, which I know that the IC is
looking to make sure that if the information can be safely declassified,
then it is. 

I would also say that during that same period of time, and we have
replicated that model with the serious threats from Chinese cyber actors
known as Volt Typhoon, we have held extensive briefings at various
levels of classifications with cleared sector personnel to ensure that
they are aware that we’re aware, in 2022, of the Russian threat and are
aware now of the serious Chinese threats to our critical infrastructure,
specifically pre-positioning to disrupt or destroy critical
infrastructure in the event of a major crisis. 

So, I think this administration has made significant strides both in
clearing people in, in declassifying information as necessary, and then
also in providing classified briefings to ensure that critical
infrastructure owners and operators are prepared for the full range of
(inaudible) threats.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  This is \[senior administration
official\].

OPERATOR:  Next we’ll —

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thank you.

OPERATOR:  Pardon me. 

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I would just add that specifically in
the NSM, there are some tasks to the ODNI specifically, that it works
with the entire intelligence community to provide the President with an
intelligence assessment on critical infrastructure within 180 days. 
And, of course, that — we will work to share that with the owner and
operator community, but also to provide the President with a report on
information in an intelligence sharing. 

And as part of that, ODNI is to work with CISA and the sector risk
management agencies to develop a system for streamlining and
coordinating outreach to and engagement with the owners and operators of
infrastructure by developing policy, procedure, and guidance on these
topics. 

And I think as \[senior administration official\] alluded to, we have a
lot of instructive emerging practices and lessons learned from what has
happened in the first three years of this administration that, as we
work to develop those policies and procedures, will be accounted for
really, again, with the goal of making sure that those that are managing
the risk to critical infrastructure and are on the frontlines have the
intelligence and the information that they need to know to make
investments, to invest in mitigation actions so we can adequately ensure
the security and the resilience of these critical assets and systems.

Q    Hi.  Thank you for doing this.  Can you just describe a bit more
exactly what is changing for CISA?  It did sound like some of those
things that CISA is already doing.  Is this just kind of like
reaffirming like as a national coordinator, SRMA, the eight sectors, and
the system of important critical — SIE actually, not — not
(inaudible).  

And additionally, can you also — are you calling for new standards?  Or
is there like — is this another call for new standards or is this like a
move to actually set, you know, standards across the line for critical
infrastructure?  Can you go over that as well, please?  Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, I’ll take the first one and then
I’ll turn it to \[senior administration official\] to talk about what
the NSM calls for.  And, Christian, as you know, the statute that
established CISA in 2018 tasked us to manage — to lead a national effort
to secure critical infrastructure, but the presidential policy directive
that was created in 2013 didn’t mention anything about CISA’s role
because we weren’t created yet. 

So, in some sense, this does reinforce our statutory role, but extremely
important that it lays out in presidential policy the specific roles
that we have as both a national coordinator in terms of managing
cross-sector risk to those 16 sectors, CISA’s role as an SRMA, and then
what we will — the mechanisms that we will use — for example, the FSLC,
which was reinvigorated about a year and a half ago as a coordinating
body to allow us to better manage risk across the various critical
infrastructure sectors through the sector risk management agencies. 

So, I think this helps to reinforce the statutory role we have.  It
reinforces the authorities that we have and, I think, really puts a
spotlight on the fact that as critical infrastructure has evolved —
given the highly interdependent, highly connected, highly digitized,
and, frankly, highly vulnerable nature of the critical infrastructure
that Americans rely on every hour of every day — having a coordinating
element to really manage that cross-sector risk and drive down that
cross-sector risk, I think it’s incredibly important to the security of
the nation. 

I’ll turn it to \[senior administration official\].

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks, \[senior administration
official\].  And — again, and I think underscoring the importance of
CISA as the national coordinator for critical infrastructure security
and resilience, it also underscores that SRMAs will serve as the
day-to-day federal interface for their designated critical
infrastructure sector and conduct that sector-specific risk management
and resilience activity.   
  
And, of course, as you mentioned, CISA is the SRMA (inaudible) sectors,
but distinguishing CISA’s role as national coordinator and then as the
sector risk management agency for eight sectors.

Related to your question about new regulation.  At the end of the day,
the NSM is directing the Sector Risk Management Agencies to assess
whether current and existing minimum requirements sufficiently address
the vulnerabilities in their sectors.  
  
These requirements are going to be developed or need to be developed in
close coordination with the owners and operators of that infrastructure
to ensure they are appropriate and proportionate to the vulnerability.  
  
If an SRMA feels that it does not have the tools or authorities
necessary to ensure effective implementation of those requirements, we
have built in a process to help the SRMA be able to hold the sector
accountable and, if need be, develop those minimum requirements.

Q    Thank you.  Very helpful.  Appreciate it.  
  
Q    So, I do have a question about the 9002(b) Report.  And one thing
that it said was that there was, quote, “an opportunity to designate a
space sector and a bio-economy sector depending on a review process.” 
Unquote. 

You talked a little bit about that report, \[senior administration
official\], but I’m wondering if you can expand on why the review
process did not end up finding that there was a need for those
particular sectors, because they were called out in the report that CISA
produced.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, absolutely.  Thanks for the
question.  So, we did, in fact, highlight, as you said, in 9002(b)
Report.  As I mentioned, we had a pretty extensive process where we
worked with the various sector risk management agencies to determine
whether, in fact, space or bio-economy should become new sectors.

Ultimately, with respect to space, in particular, because space is
really a part of so many different sectors, it did not, at this time,
make sense to break space out as a separate sector.  We’re going to
continue to manage space as a sector through a working group that we’re
a co-chair of.  But — and similarly, with bio-economy, the members of
the FSLC did not think it needed to be called out as a separate
sector.  
  
However, through the FSLC, if there are significant changes, we will
take a look to see if a formal designation as a sector or as a subsector
makes sense going forward.  And we won’t need to wait for that statutory
five years to make that assessment if there’s a need or requirement. 
Just given what’s happening across the landscape, we can make that
judgment earlier.

MODERATOR:  All right. Thank you so much.  I’m just going to turn it
quickly over to \[senior administration official\] for some closing
remarks here.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Again, thank you.  First of all,
\[senior administration official\], thank you for joining us.  Thank you
for your partnership.  And thank all of those who have joined us today
to learn more about the policy.  
  
This is a very important milestone for this administration.  Again, it
is the culmination of over a year of work, both convening the
interagency and those federal agencies that are responsible for working
with the private sector to help manage risks but others in academia and
across the critical infrastructure sector.

Given the dynamic and complex risk environment, I very much feel that
this policy prepares us for the next decade — what the President calls a
decisive decade — and what lies out on the horizon and the
acknowledgment that both more must be done to protect assets and that
works with sectors but equally important look across sectors and work to
understand those dependencies and interdependencies where there might be
vulnerabilities and to shore up those vulnerabilities.  
  
So, this is a very exciting moment.  As somebody who worked on PPD 21,
to have an opportunity to work on the evolution of that policy and to be
able to have the President sign out what you will see tomorrow is very
exciting.

So, thank you all.  And we’ll follow up as needed.

MODERATOR:  Great.  Thank you, \[senior administration official\]. 
Thank you, \[senior administration official\].  And thank you all for
joining us today.  (Inaudible) follow-up questions, feel free to reach
out to myself and the NSC press team, and we will get back to you. 
Thank you very much.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks so much.
