---
date: '2024-04-10'
published_time: 2024-04-10 14:58:45-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/04/10/united-states-japan-joint-leaders-statement/
tags: statements-releases
title: "United\_States-Japan Joint Leaders\u2019\_Statement"
---
 
Global Partners for the Future

Over the course of the last three years, the U.S.-Japan Alliance has
reached unprecedented heights. We arrived at this historic moment
because our nations, individually and together, took courageous steps to
strengthen our collective capacity in ways that would have seemed
impossible just a few years ago. Today, we, President Joseph R. Biden,
Jr. and Prime Minister KISHIDA Fumio, celebrate this new era of
U.S.-Japan strategic cooperation during the Prime Minister’s Official
Visit and State Dinner in Washington, D.C.—and pledge that the United
States and Japan will continue our tireless work, together and with
other partners, to realize a free and open Indo-Pacific and world.

In this new era of U.S.-Japan cooperation, we recognize that global
events affect the security and stability of the Indo-Pacific, and that
developments in our shared region reverberate around the world. We are
therefore working together, across all domains and at all levels, to
build a global partnership that is fit for purpose to address the
complex, interconnected challenges of today and tomorrow for the benefit
of our two countries and the world. As our Alliance cooperation reaches
new heights, we are expanding our engagement to reflect the global
nature of our partnership.

At the core of our cooperation is a shared commitment to work with
like-minded partners and multilateral institutions to address common
challenges and to ensure a world that is free, open, connected,
resilient, and secure. These joint efforts are based on our shared
fundamental respect for international law, including the protection and
promotion of human rights and dignity, the sovereignty and territorial
integrity of all states, and the prohibition on acquisition of territory
by force. Our purpose as partners is to uphold and bolster the free and
open international order based on the rule of law that has allowed so
many nations to develop and prosper, and to ensure our Alliance is
equipped to tackle the challenges of the 21<sup>st</sup> century.

To advance our global partnership, today we announce several new
strategic initiatives to strengthen our defense and security
cooperation; reach new frontiers in space; drive technology innovation;
bolster economic security; accelerate climate action; partner on global
diplomacy and development; and fortify the ties between our peoples.
Through our global partnership, we are also synchronizing our
strategies, and our two nations have never been more united as we work
together to address the most pressing challenges and opportunities of
the future.

**Strengthening our Defense and Security Cooperation**

The core of our global partnership is our bilateral defense and security
cooperation under the Treaty of Mutual Cooperation and Security, which
is stronger than ever. We affirm that our Alliance remains the
cornerstone of peace, security, and prosperity in the Indo-Pacific.
President Biden reiterated the unwavering commitment of the United
States to the defense of Japan under Article V of the Treaty, using its
full range of capabilities, including nuclear capabilities. Prime
Minister Kishida reaffirmed Japan’s unwavering commitment to
fundamentally reinforce its own defense capabilities and roles, and to
enhance its close coordination with the United States under the
Treaty.President Biden also reaffirmed that Article V applies to the
Senkaku Islands. We reiterated our strong opposition to any attempts by
the People’s Republic of China (PRC) to unilaterally change the status
quo by force or coercion in the East China Sea, including through
actions that seek to undermine Japan’s longstanding and peaceful
administration of the Senkaku Islands. We welcome the progress in
optimizing Alliance force posture in areas including the Southwestern
Islands to strengthen U.S.-Japan deterrence and response capabilities,
and we confirm the importance of further advancing this initiative.

The United States welcomes the steps Japan is taking to fundamentally
enhance its defense capabilities, including its plans to increase the
budget for its defense capabilities and complementary initiatives to two
percent of GDP in Japanese Fiscal Year (JFY) 2027 in accordance with
Japan’s National Security Strategy, its decision to possess
counterstrike capabilities, and its plans to stand up the Japan
Self-Defense Forces (JSDF) Joint Operations Command to enhance command
and control of the JSDF. Together, these initiatives elevate our defense
ties to unprecedented levels and launch a new era of U.S.-Japan security
cooperation, strengthening our Alliance and contributing to stability in
the Indo-Pacific.

Today, we announce several new strategic initiatives to further advance
our Alliance. Recognizing the speed at which regional security
challenges evolve and to ensure our bilateral Alliance structures meet
these critical changes, we announce our intention to bilaterally upgrade
our respective command and control frameworks to enable seamless
integration of operations and capabilities and allow for greater
interoperability and planning between U.S. and Japanese forces in
peacetime and during contingencies. More effective U.S.-Japan Alliance
command and control will strengthen deterrence and promote a free and
open Indo-Pacific in the face of pressing regional security challenges.
We call on our respective defense and foreign ministries to develop this
new relationship through the Security Consultative Committee (our
security “2+2”). In support of this vision, we also reaffirm our goal to
deepen Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance cooperation and
Alliance information sharing capabilities, including through the
Bilateral Information Analysis Cell.

We will also continue to implement efforts to strengthen our Alliance
force posture, build high-end base capabilities, and increase
preparedness that are necessary to deter and defend against threats. We
resolve to deepen bilateral cooperation toward the effective development
and employment of Japan’s suite of counterstrike capabilities, including
the provision of U.S. materiel and technological support to enhance
Japan’s indigenous stand-off programs. The United States expressed its
commitment to start the training pipeline and ship modifications for
Japan to acquire operational capability of the Tomahawk Land Attack
Missile (TLAM) system. We also reaffirmed our pursuit of a Glide Phase
Interceptor (GPI) cooperative development program to counter high-end,
regional hypersonic threats.

As our countries strengthen our bilateral ties, we will continue to
build our relationships with like-minded partners in the region. Today,
we announce our vision to cooperate on a networked air defense
architecture among the United States, Japan, and Australia to counter
growing air and missile threats. Recognizing Japan’s strengths and the
close bilateral defense partnerships with the AUKUS countries, AUKUS
partners – Australia, the United Kingdom, and the United States – are
considering cooperation with Japan on AUKUS Pillar II advanced
capability projects. Continuing the momentum from the Camp David Summit,
we welcome progress on establishing an annual multidomain exercise
between the United States, Japan, and the Republic of Korea (ROK).
Recognizing the commitments made in the Atlantic Declaration and the
Hiroshima Accord, and as the Indo-Pacific and Euro-Atlantic regions
become ever more interlinked, we welcome the announcement of regular
U.S.-Japan-UK trilateral exercises, beginning in 2025, as we enhance our
shared and enduring security. Building on the announcement at the
Australia Official Visit in October to pursue trilateral cooperation
with Japan on unmanned aerial systems, we are exploring cooperative
opportunities in the rapidly emerging field of collaborative combat
aircraft and autonomy.

The United States welcomes Japan’s revision of the Three Principles on
the Transfer of Defense Equipment and Technology and its Implementation
Guidelines, which bolsters cooperation through joint development and
production to enhance our deterrence capabilities in the region. To
leverage our respective industrial bases to meet the demand for critical
capabilities and maintain readiness over the long term, we will convene
a Forum on Defense Industrial Cooperation, Acquisition and Sustainment
(DICAS) co-led by the U.S. Department of Defense and Japan’s Ministry of
Defense to identify priority areas for partnering U.S. and Japanese
industry, including co-development and co-production of missiles and
co-sustainment of forward-deployed U.S. Navy ships and U.S. Air Force
aircraft, including fourth generation fighters, at Japanese commercial
facilities, in coordination with relevant ministries. This forum, in
conjunction with our existing Defense Science and Technology Cooperation
Group, will better integrate and align our defense industrial policy,
acquisition, and science and technology ecosystems. The DICAS will
provide updates on progress to the foreign and defense ministers in the
security “2+2.” We also commit to establishing a working group to
explore opportunities for future fighter pilot training and readiness,
including AI and advanced simulators, and co-development and
co-production of cutting-edge technologies such as common jet trainers
to maintain combat-ready next-generation fighter airpower.

We reaffirm the critical importance of continuing to enhance U.S.
extended deterrence, bolstered by Japan’s defense capabilities, and will
further strengthen bilateral cooperation. In this regard, we call on our
respective foreign and defense ministers to hold in-depth discussions on
extended deterrence on the occasion of the next security “2+2” meeting.

We continue to deepen our cooperation on information and cyber security
to ensure that our Alliance stays ahead of growing cyber threats and
builds resilience in the information and communication technology
domain. We also plan on enhancing our cooperation on the protection of
critical infrastructure.

Recognizing the importance of rapidly responding to frequent and severe
climate change-related and other natural disasters, we plan to explore
cooperation on the establishment of a humanitarian assistance and
disaster relief hub in Japan.

In order to maintain deterrence and mitigate impact on local
communities, we are firmly committed to the steady implementation of the
realignment of U.S. forces in Japan in accordance with Okinawa
Consolidation Plan, including the construction of the Futenma
Replacement Facility at Henoko as the only solution that avoids the
continued use of Marine Corps Air Station Futenma.

**Reaching New Frontiers in Space**

Our global partnership extends to space, where the United States and
Japan are leading the way to explore our solar system and return to the
Moon. Today, we welcome the signing of a Lunar Surface Exploration
Implementing Arrangement, in which Japan plans to provide and sustain
operation of a pressurized lunar rover while the United States plans to
allocate two astronaut flight opportunities to the lunar surface for
Japan on future Artemis missions. The leaders announced a shared goal
for a Japanese national to be the first non-American astronaut to land
on the Moon on a future Artemis mission, assuming important benchmarks
are achieved. The United States and Japan plan to deepen cooperation on
astronaut training to facilitate this goal while managing the risks of
these challenging and inspiring lunar surface missions. We also announce
bilateral collaboration on a Low Earth Orbit detection and tracking
constellation for missiles such as hypersonic glide vehicles, including
potential collaboration with U.S. industry.

**Leading on Innovation,** **Economic Security, and Climate Action**

The United States and Japan aim to maximally align our economic,
technology, and related strategies to advance innovation, strengthen our
industrial bases, promote resilient and reliable supply chains, and
build the strategic emerging industries of the future while pursuing
deep emissions reductions this decade. Building on our efforts in the
U.S.-Japan Competitiveness and Resilience (CoRe) Partnership, including
through the U.S.-Japan Economic Policy Consultative Committee (our
economic “2+2”), we intend to sharpen our innovative edge and strengthen
our economic security, including by promoting and protecting critical
and emerging technologies.

The United States and Japan welcome our robust economic and commercial
ties through mutual investment, including Microsoft’s $2.9 billion
investment in Japan on AI and cloud infrastructure, workforce training,
and a research lab; and Toyota’s recent additional $8 billion battery
production investment for a cumulative $13.9 billion investment in North
Carolina. Japan is the top foreign investor in the United States with
nearly $800 billion in foreign direct investment, and Japanese companies
employ nearly 1 million Americans across all 50 states. Similarly, as a
top foreign investor in Japan for many years, the United States is
supporting Japan’s economic growth, and as two of the world’s largest
financial sectors, we commit to strengthening our partnership to bolster
cross-border investment and support financial stability. As robust and
creative economies, we also plan to accelerate investment in our
respective start-up environments to foster innovation through the “Japan
Innovation Campus” in Silicon Valley and the “Global Startup Campus” to
be established in Tokyo, and in companies that take actions toward
sustainable value creation (SX). We welcome our new Japan-U.S. personnel
exchange programs on startups and venture capital firms under the Global
Innovation through Science and Technology (GIST) initiative.

We are committed to strengthening our shared role as global leaders in
the development and protection of next-generation critical and emerging
technologies such as AI, quantum technology, semiconductors, and
biotechnology through research exchange and private investment and
capital finance, including with other like-minded partners. We welcome
our collaboration on AI for Science between Riken and Argonne National
Laboratory (ANL) founded on the revised project arrangement.

We applaud the establishment of $110 million in new AI research
partnerships – between the University of Washington and University of
Tsukuba and between Carnegie Mellon University and Keio University –
through funding from NVIDIA, Arm, Amazon, Microsoft, and a consortium of
Japanese companies. We are committed to further advancing the Hiroshima
AI Process and strengthening collaboration between the national AI
Safety Institutes.

Building on our long history of semiconductor cooperation, we intend to
establish a joint technology agenda for cooperation on issues such as
research and development, design, and workforce development. We also
welcome the robust cooperation between and with our private sectors,
especially in next-generation semiconductors and advanced packaging. We
also plan to work together along with like-minded countries to
strengthen global semiconductor supply chains, particularly for mature
node (“legacy”) semiconductors through information-sharing, coordination
of policies, and addressing vulnerabilities stemming from non-market
policies and practices. We also celebrate the signing of a Memorandum of
Cooperation between Japan’s National Institute of Advanced Industrial
Science and Technology (AIST) and the U.S. National Institute of
Standards and Technology (NIST) as a first step in bilateral cooperation
on quantum computing.

Building on the Indo-Pacific Economic Framework for Prosperity (IPEF)
and our respective leadership of the G7 and Asia-Pacific Economic
Cooperation (APEC) last year, we continue to advance resilience,
sustainability, inclusiveness, economic growth, fairness, and
competitiveness for our economies. We applaud the recent entry into
force of the IPEF Supply Chain Agreement. We will continue to seek
cooperation on critical minerals projects, including those along the
Partnership for Global Infrastructure and Investment Lobito Corridor,
and through the Minerals Security Partnership (MSP) as well as the
Partnership for Resilient and Inclusive Supply-chain Enhancement (RISE).
We are cooperating to deter and address economic coercion, through our
bilateral cooperation as well as through our work with like-minded
partners including the G7 Coordination Platform on Economic Coercion. We
are working to uphold a free, fair and rules-based economic order;
address non-market policies and practices; build trusted, resilient, and
sustainable supply chains; and promote open markets and fair competition
under the U.S.-Japan economic “2+2” and the U.S.-Japan Commercial and
Industrial Partnership. We will advance our commitment to operationalize
data free flow with trust, including with respect to data security. We
will also discuss the promotion of resilient and responsible seafood
supply chains.

The United States and Japan recognize that the climate crisis is the
existential challenge of our time and intend to be leaders in the global
response. Towards our shared goal of accelerating the clean energy
transition, we are launching a new high-level dialogue on how we
implement our respective domestic measures and maximize their synergies
and impacts, including the U.S. Inflation Reduction Act and Japan’s
Green Transformation (GX) Promotion Strategy aimed at accelerating
energy transition progress this decade, promoting complementary and
innovative clean energy supply chains and improving industrial
competitiveness. Today we announce Japan joins as the first
international collaborator of the U.S. Floating Offshore Wind Shot. We
intend to work together towards global ambition in line with the Wind
Shot, taking into consideration national circumstances, through the
Clean Energy and Energy Security Initiative (CEESI) to pursue innovative
breakthroughs that drive down technology costs, accelerate
decarbonization, and deliver benefits for coastal communities. The
United States welcomes Japan’s newly-launched industry platform, the
Floating Offshore Wind Technology Research Association (FLOWRA), aiming
to reduce costs and achieve mass production of floating offshore wind
through collaboration with academia.

We are further leading the way in developing and deploying next
generation clean energy technology, including fusion energy development
through the announcement of a U.S.-Japan Strategic Partnership to
Accelerate Fusion Energy Demonstration and Commercialization.

The United States remains unwavering in its commitment to support the
energy security of Japan and other allies, including its ability to
predictably supply LNG while accelerating the global transition to
zero-emissions energy and working with other fossil energy importers and
producers to minimize methane emissions across the fossil energy value
chain to the fullest extent practicable.

We intend to advance widespread adoption of innovative new clean energy
technologies, and seek to increase the globally available supply of
sustainable aviation fuel or feedstock, including those that are
ethanol-based, that show promise in reducing emissions.

We are also working to align global health security and innovation,
including in such areas as pandemic prevention, preparedness, and
response and promoting more resilient, equitable, and sustainable health
systems. Today, we announce that the U.S. Food and Drug Administration
and the Japan’s Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Agency (PMDA) intend
to collaborate and exchange information on oncology drug products to
help cancer patients receive earlier access to medications and to
discuss future drug development and ways to prevent drug shortages. We
welcome PMDA’s future representative office in Washington, D.C., to
facilitate this cooperation.

**Partnering on Global Diplomacy and Development**

The challenges we face transcend geography. The United States and Japan
are steadfast in our commitment to upholding international law,
including the UN Charter, and call for all Member States to uphold the
Charter’s purposes and principles, including refraining from the threat
or use of force against the territorial integrity or political
independence of any State. We remain committed to reforming the UN
Security Council (UNSC), including through expansion in permanent and
non-permanent categories of its membership. President Biden reiterated
support for Japan’s permanent membership on a reformed UNSC.

We reaffirm our commitment made in Hiroshima last year and are
determined to further promote our cooperation in the G7 and work
together with partners beyond the G7.

We emphasize the importance of all parties promoting open channels of
communication and practical measures to reduce the risk of
misunderstanding and miscalculation and to prevent conflict in the
Indo-Pacific. In particular, we underscore the importance of candid
communication with the PRC, including at the leader level, and express
the intent to work with the PRC where possible on areas of common
interest.

We emphasize the importance of all States being able to exercise rights
and freedoms in a manner consistent with international law as reflected
in the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS),
including freedom of navigation and overflight. We strongly oppose any
unilateral attempts to change the status quo by force or coercion,
including destabilizing actions in the South China Sea, such as unsafe
encounters at sea and in the air as well as the militarization of
disputed features and the dangerous use of coast guard vessels and
maritime militia. The PRC’s recent dangerous and escalatory behavior
supporting its unlawful maritime claims in the South China Sea as well
as efforts to disrupt other countries’ offshore resource exploitation
are inconsistent with international law as reflected in UNCLOS. We also
emphasize that the 2016 South China Sea Arbitral Award is final and
legally binding on the parties to that proceeding. We resolve to work
with partners, particularly in ASEAN, to support regional maritime
security and uphold international law.

We emphasize that our basic positions on Taiwan remain unchanged and
reiterate the importance of maintaining peace and stability across the
Taiwan Strait as an indispensable element of global security and
prosperity. We encourage the peaceful resolution of cross-Strait issues.

We continue working together with partner countries to make concrete
progress in strengthening the international financial architecture and
fostering investment under the Partnership for Global Infrastructure and
Investment. We are committed to delivering better, bigger, more
effective multilateral development banks including through our planned
contributions that would enable more than $30 billion in new World Bank
lending and securing ambitious International Development Association and
Asian Development Fund replenishments. We also emphasize the importance
of private sector investment in the Indo-Pacific. We welcome the
announcement of Google’s $1 billion investment in digital connectivity
for North Pacific Connect, which expands the Pacific Connect Initiative,
with NEC, to improve digital communications infrastructure between the
United States, Japan and Pacific Island Nations. Building on the
U.S.-Australia joint funding commitment for subsea cables last October,
the United States and Japan plan to collaborate with like-minded
partners to build trusted and more resilient networks and intend to
contribute funds to provide subsea cables in the Pacific region,
including $16 million towards cable systems for the Federated States of
Micronesia and Tuvalu.

We reaffirm our steadfast commitment to the Quad and its shared vision
of a free and open Indo-Pacific that is stable, prosperous, and
inclusive which continues to deliver results for the region. We
reiterate the Quad’s unwavering support and respect for regional
institutions, including ASEAN, the Pacific Islands Forum (PIF), and the
Indian Ocean Rim Association. We also reaffirm our support for ASEAN
centrality and unity as well as the ASEAN Outlook on the Indo-Pacific.
Southeast Asian countries are critical partners in the Indo-Pacific and
the U.S.-Japan-Philippines trilateral aims to enhance trilateral defense
and security cooperation while promoting economic security and
resilience. Japan and the United States reaffirmed our intention to work
to support the region’s priorities as articulated through the 2050
Strategy for the Blue Pacific Continent, including through the PIF as
the Pacific’s preeminent institution as well as through the Partners in
the Blue Pacific (PBP).

As we pursue our shared vision of a free and open Indo-Pacific, we
continue to build strong ties between key, like-minded partners in the
region. Building on the historic success of the Camp David Trilateral
Summit, the United States, Japan and the Republic of Korea continue to
collaborate on promoting regional security, strengthening deterrence,
coordinating development and humanitarian assistance, countering North
Korea’s illicit cyber activities, and deepening our cooperation
including on economic, clean energy, and technological issues. The
United States and Japan also remain committed to advancing trilateral
cooperation with Australia to ensure a peaceful and stable region.

We reaffirm our commitment to the complete denuclearization of North
Korea in accordance with relevant UNSC resolutions. We strongly condemn
North Korea’s continued development of its ballistic missile
program—including through launches of intercontinental ballistic
missiles (ICBM) and space launch vehicles using ballistic missile
technologies—which poses a grave threat to peace and security on the
Korean Peninsula and beyond. We call on North Korea to respond to
continued, genuine offers to return to diplomacy without preconditions.
We call on all UN Member States to fully implement all relevant UNSC
resolutions, especially in light of Russia’s recent veto. We urge North
Korea to cease illicit activities that generate revenue for its unlawful
ballistic missile and weapons of mass destruction programs, including
malicious cyber activities. President Biden also reaffirms U.S.
commitment to the immediate resolution of the abductions issue, and the
two sides commit to continuing joint efforts to promote respect for
human rights in North Korea.

We continue to stand together in firm opposition to Russia’s brutal war
of aggression against Ukraine, its strikes against Ukraine’s
infrastructure and the terror of Russian occupation. We are committed to
continuing to impose severe sanctions on Russia and provide unwavering
support for Ukraine. Together, we reiterate our call on Russia to
immediately, completely, and unconditionally withdraw its forces from
within the internationally recognized borders of Ukraine. Any threat or
use of nuclear weapons in the context of its war of aggression against
Ukraine by Russia is unacceptable. We also express serious concerns
about growing North Korea-Russia military cooperation, which is
supporting Russia’s war of aggression against Ukraine and threatens to
undermine peace and stability in Northeast Asia as well as the global
non-proliferation regime.

As the linkages between the Euro-Atlantic and the Indo-Pacific regions
have become stronger than ever, our two countries look forward to
continuing to work together to enhance Japan-North Atlantic Treaty
Organization (NATO) and NATO-Indo-Pacific Four partnerships.

We once again unequivocally condemn the terror attacks by Hamas and
others on October 7 of last year, and reaffirm Israel’s right to defend
itself and its people consistent with international law. At the same
time, we express our deep concern over the critical humanitarian
situation in the Gaza Strip. We affirm the imperative of securing the
release of all hostages held by Hamas, and emphasize that the deal to
release hostages would bring an immediate and prolonged ceasefire in
Gaza. We affirm the imperative of realizing an immediate and sustained
ceasefire in Gaza over a period of at least six weeks as part of a deal
that would release hostages held by Hamas and allow for delivery of
essential additional humanitarian assistance to Palestinians in need. We
underscore the urgent need to significantly increase deliveries of
life-saving humanitarian assistance throughout Gaza and the crucial need
to prevent regional escalation. We reiterate the importance of complying
with international law, including international humanitarian law, as
applicable, including with regard to the protection of civilians. We
remain committed to an independent Palestinian state with Israel’s
security guaranteed as part of a two-state solution that enables both
Israelis and Palestinians to live in a just, lasting, and secure peace.

We reaffirm the importance of supporting inclusive growth and
sustainable development in Latin America and the Caribbean. We continue
to enhance policy coordination in the region, in particular on Haiti and
Venezuela. We also recognize that promoting the stability and security
for Haiti is one of the most pressing challenges in the Western
Hemisphere, and we continue to support Haiti in restoring democratic
order.

We also support African aspirations for peace, stability, and prosperity
based on the rule of law. We continue to work together to support the
democratic process and economic growth through our respective efforts,
including our cooperation with African countries, Regional Economic
Communities, the African Union, and multilateral organizations.

The United States and Japan are resolved to achieve a world without
nuclear weapons through realistic and pragmatic approaches. It is
critical that the overall decline in global nuclear arsenals achieved
since the end of the Cold War continues and not be reversed, and the
PRC’s accelerating build-up of its nuclear arsenal without transparency
nor meaningful dialogue poses a concern to global and regional
stability. We reaffirm the importance of upholding the Treaty on the
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) as the cornerstone of the
global nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation regime and for the
pursuit of peaceful uses of nuclear energy. In promoting this universal
goal of achieving a world without nuclear weapons, Japan’s “Hiroshima
Action Plan” and the “G7 Leaders’ Hiroshima Vision on Nuclear
Disarmament” are welcome contributions. The two leaders also welcomed
the U.S. announcement to join the Japan-led “Fissile Material Cut-off
Treaty Friends” initiative. We reaffirm the indispensable role of the
peaceful uses of nuclear technology, committing to fostering innovation
and supporting the International Atomic Energy Agency’s efforts in
upholding the highest standards of safety, security, and safeguards.
President Biden commended Japan’s safe, responsible, and science-based
discharge of Advanced Liquid Processing System treated water at Tokyo
Electric Power Company’s Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Station into
the sea. Our two countries plan to launch the Fukushima Daiichi
Decommissioning Partnership focusing on research cooperation for fuel
debris retrieval.

To effectively address the myriad challenges outlined above, our global
partnership is launching a Deputy Secretary of State/Vice Minister for
Foreign Affairs-level dialogue involving our respective aid agencies to
align our diplomatic and development efforts globally.

**Fortifying People-to-People Ties**

People-to-people exchanges are the most effective way to develop the
future stewards of the U.S.-Japan relationship. In this regard, we
recognize the achievements of exchange programs between our two
countries, including the Japan Exchange and Teaching (JET) Programme,
KAKEHASHI Project, the Japan Foundation’s programs, and the U.S.-Japan
Council’s TOMODACHI Initiative, and commit ourselves to providing more
opportunities to meet today’s needs, including through enhanced
subnational exchanges on critical issues such as climate and energy. We
also recognize the important role civil society has played in
strengthening the U.S.-Japan relationship over the past 170 years,
including the 38 Japan-America Societies across the United States, the
Asia Society, and the 29 America-Japan Societies across Japan.

Building on the Memorandum of Cooperation in Education signed between us
on the sidelines of the G7 Leaders’ Summit in Hiroshima, today we
announce our commitment to increase student mobility through the new $12
million “Mineta Ambassadors Program (MAP)” education exchange endowment
administered by the U.S.-Japan Council for U.S. and Japanese high school
and university students who will “map” the future of the relationship
with support from Apple, the BlackRock Foundation, Toshizo Watanabe
Foundation, and other founding donors. In this regard, we also welcome
Japan’s new initiative to expand scholarship for Japanese students
through the Japan Student Servicers Organization.

We recognize the significant contributions made by the binational
Japan-U.S. Educational Commission (Fulbright Japan) over the past 72
years. We welcome recent changes to upgrade the program by reopening
scholarships to Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM) fields
for the first time in 50 years, with the first STEM students on track to
participate in academic year 2025-26, as well as removing the tuition
cap for Japanese Fulbright participants to attract the highest quality
students and researchers.

Celebrating the 30th anniversary of the establishment of the Mansfield
Fellowship Program, we honor the legacy of Ambassador Mansfield’s
contributions through the University of Montana Mansfield Center and
Mansfield Foundation. The two leaders also welcome the creation of the
Government of Japan endowed Mansfield Professor of Japanese and
Indo-Pacific Affairs at the University of Montana.

Upon the 100<sup>th</sup> anniversary of the birth of the late Senator
Daniel K. Inouye, who made incredible contributions to our bilateral
relationship, we praise the efforts of Japanese American leaders to
build a bridge between the two countries and to address common community
issues, including through support to the U.S.-Japan Council’s newly
launched TOMODACHI Kibou for Maui project. We also share the recognition
on the importance of exchanges between our legislatures. We acknowledge
the importance of language study, particularly in person, to develop
long-term ties and announce a new Memorandum of Cooperation to increase
opportunities for the number of exchange visitors from Japan to share
their specialized knowledge of Japanese language and culture in the
United States, as well as welcome efforts to expand the Japanese
Language Education Assistant Program (J-LEAP).

The two leaders also affirm that women in leadership remain their focus
and reaffirm our pledge to achieving gender equality and the empowerment
of women and girls in all their diversity. We welcome close cooperation
on Women, Peace, and Security and Women’s Economic Empowerment
initiatives and efforts to promote women and girls’ full, equal, and
meaningful participation and leadership in public life.

Finally, we emphasize the need to build a diverse pipeline of future
U.S.-Japan experts who understand and support the Alliance. Our peoples
form the core of our Alliance, and we reaffirm our commitment to forge
ever-closer bonds for generations to come.

—

Through our shared and steadfast commitment, we have taken bold and
courageous steps to bring the U.S.-Japan Alliance to unprecedented
heights. In so doing, we have equipped our partnership to protect and
advance peace, security, prosperity, and the rule of law across the
Indo-Pacific and the globe so that everyone benefits. Today, we
celebrate the enduring friendship among our peoples—and among
ourselves—and pledge to continue our relentless efforts to ensure that
our global partnership drives future peace and prosperity for
generations to come.

\###
