---
date: '2024-04-30'
published_time: 2024-04-30 22:15:20-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/04/30/readout-of-white-house-convening-with-department-of-treasury-child-care-providers-and-community-development-financial-institutions/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of White\_House Convening with Department of Treasury, Child Care\
  \ Providers, and Community Development Financial\_Institutions"
---
 
Today, Director of the Gender Policy Council Jennifer Klein, Domestic
Policy Advisor Neera Tanden, and Chief Economist of the Investing in
America Cabinet Heather Boushey, alongside senior staff from the
Department of the Treasury,
[convened](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0N365sfEkEE) child care
providers, community development financial institutions (CDFIs), and
local and national leaders to discuss opportunities for collaboration
between child care providers and CDFIs to support access to affordable,
high-quality child care.

Since the beginning of the Administration, President Biden and Vice
President Harris have prioritized tackling the structural issues
negatively impacting the child care sector, including low wages for
workers, high costs for families, and inadequate supply of high-quality
care. The Administration [has proposed transformational
investments](https://www.hhs.gov/sites/default/files/fy-2025-budget-in-brief.pdf) that
would guarantee affordable, high-quality child care from birth until
kindergarten for low- and middle-income working families, restore the
expanded Child Tax Credit, expand home and community-based services, and
provide national paid family and medical leave.

In April 2023, the President signed an [historic Executive
Order](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/04/18/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-most-sweeping-set-of-executive-actions-to-improve-care-in-history/)
directing nearly every cabinet-level agency to expand access to
affordable, high-quality care and provide increased support for care
workers and family caregivers. Over the past month, during [Care Workers
Recognition
Month](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/03/29/a-proclamation-on-care-workers-recognition-month-2024/)
and our “[Month of Action on
Care](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/03/25/fact-sheet-the-biden-harris-administration-announces-month-of-action-on-care-with-new-actions-to-support-small-businesses/),”
the Biden-Harris Administration announced new actions pursuant to the
Executive Order, including: [new funding
opportunities](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/03/25/fact-sheet-the-biden-harris-administration-announces-month-of-action-on-care-with-new-actions-to-support-small-businesses/)
from the Small Business Administration to support small business
providing care and the creation of a child care business development
guide; [funding opportunities and new
resources](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/04/17/fact-sheet-on-one-year-anniversary-of-president-bidens-care-eo-the-biden-harris-administration-celebrates-new-progress-toward-providing-care-and-other-supportive-services-for-workers/)
encouraging the use of supportive services, including care, for
equitable workforce development; and the issuance of [two final
rules](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/04/22/fact-sheet-vice-president-harris-announces-historic-advancements-in-long-term-care-to-support-the-care-economy/)
to improve access to safe, reliable, high-quality long-term care.

Today, building on these efforts, pursuant to the President’s Executive
Order, the White House and the Department of the Treasury convened
stakeholders to discuss challenges faced by child care businesses, such
as barriers to securing financing and opportunities to support care
providers, including pathways to access capital.  The convening
highlighted ways in which they can collaborate with CDFIs for
support—bringing awareness to challenges and opportunities faced by both
child care businesses and CDFIs and forging cooperation in pursuit of
supporting access to affordable, high-quality care.

\###
