---
date: '2024-04-24'
modified_time: 2024-04-23 20:10:48-04:00
published_time: 2024-04-24 08:15:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/04/24/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-sets-first-ever-national-goal-of-zero-emissions-freight-sector-announces-nearly-1-5-billion-to-support-transition-to-zero-emission-heavy-duty-vehicles/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Sets First-Ever National Goal\
  \ of Zero-Emissions Freight Sector, Announces Nearly $1.5 Billion to Support Transition\
  \ to Zero-Emission Heavy-duty\_Vehicles"
---
 
The U.S. freight system is vital to our nation’s economy. Trucks, ships,
trains, and planes move 55 million tons of goods worth more than $49
billion every day, across a vast network that is essential to how
Americans live and work. But while industry has made progress on
reducing emissions from this sector, freight movement continues to
represent a significant share of local air pollution, increasing the
risk of asthma, heart disease, hospitalization, and other adverse health
outcomes for the millions of Americans, especially overburdened
communities, who live and work near highways, ports, railyards,
warehouses, and other freight routes. The transportation sector is also
the largest source of climate pollution in the U.S., with trucks and
buses comprising nearly a quarter of emissions from the sector. That’s
why President Biden’s Investing in America agenda is supporting
solutions that address harmful pollution, and has spurred $165 billion
of private sector investments in zero-emission vehicle technologies.

**Building on this momentum, the Biden-Harris Administration is today
announcing a first-ever national goal to transition to a zero-emissions
freight sector for truck, rail, aviation and marine, along with a
commitment to develop a national zero-emissions freight strategy.** This
whole-of-government strategy includes new federal investments announced
today, continued engagement with stakeholders on zero-emissions freight
infrastructure, and forthcoming action plans on each of the freight
segments. The strategy will prioritize actions to address air pollution
hot spots and tackle the climate crisis, mobilizing a broad range of
government resources, and reflect public participation and meaningful
community engagement, furthering the President’s commitment to
environmental justice for all. This new commitment to zero-emissions
freight aligns with and supports President Biden’s existing goals for a
carbon pollution-free energy sector by 2035 and for achieving net-zero
emissions from the transportation sector by 2050. It also aligns with
the Administration’s commitment to work with other countries to identify
pathways and implementation actions that enable zero-emissions medium-
and heavy-duty vehicles to reach 30 percent of new sales in 2030 and 100
percent of new sales by 2040.

**<u>Investing in Zero-Emissions Freight Sector</u>**

The Administration is also unveiling several key steps under the
strategy, including major new funding programs, a new initiative to
track and accelerate deployment of charging and refueling
infrastructure, and a new program to standardize heavy-duty vehicle
charging depots:

As part of this commitment, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is
**announcing today a nearly $1 billion funding opportunity for cities,
states and Tribes through President Biden’s Inflation Reduction Act to
replace Class 6 and Class 7 heavy duty vehicles – which include school
buses, trash trucks, and delivery trucks –** with zero-emissions
vehicles. The funding will support infrastructure to charge, fuel and
maintain heavy-duty zero emission vehicles along with workforce
development and training to get this work done. Under the requirements
of the Inflation Reduction Act, at least $400 million of the program’s
funding will serve communities dealing with significant air pollution.
Projects supported through this program will reduce air and noise
pollution, improve public health, and create good-paying clean energy
jobs.  

The Department of Transportation (DOT) **is announcing the first tranche
of its $400 million Reduction of Truck Emissions at Port Facilities
Grant Program to improve air quality** and reduce pollution for truck
drivers, port workers and families that live in communities surrounding
ports. The **Department of Energy (DOE)** is **also announcing a $72
million investment to establish a “SuperTruck: Charged” program** that
will demonstrate how vehicle-grid integration enables depots and truck
stops to provide affordable, reliable charging while increasing grid
resiliency.

**<u>Convening Stakeholders to Accelerate the Transition to
Zero-Emissions Freight</u>**

The Administration is today bringing together stakeholders from
commercial truck fleets, ports, vehicle manufacturers, state and local
governments, utilities, infrastructure providers, climate and
environmental justice organizations for a convening at the White House
focused on supercharging the buildout of the infrastructure necessary to
make a zero-emissions freight ecosystem a reality in the United States.
Today’s convening on zero-emissions freight infrastructure is designed
to launch a series of engagements aimed at tackling emissions from the
movement of goods across the nation and recognizes the great progress
made already by leaders in freight decarbonization. The roundtable will
mobilize action towards successfully implementing the [National
Zero-Emission Freight Corridor
Strategy](https://driveelectric.gov/files/zef-corridor-strategy.pdf),
with special attention paid to infrastructure targets from 2024 to 2027,
and will provide Administration officials with insight into the
opportunities and challenges facing communities looking to set
actionable goals, integrate new planning methodologies, and protect
people’s health.

**<u>Building on the Administration’s Freight Policies</u>**

Today’s announcements build on the Administration’s ongoing work across
federal agencies to tackle emissions from America’s freight system. 

-   **Blueprint for Transportation Decarbonization:** In January 2023,
    DOE, EPA, DOT, and the Department of Housing and Urban Development
    (HUD) jointly released the [U.S. National Blueprint for
    Transportation
    Decarbonization](https://www.energy.gov/sites/default/files/2023-01/the-us-national-blueprint-for-transportation-decarbonization.pdf).
    Building on this work, the Biden-Haris Administration is
    coordinating with each of these agencies to draft a series of
    decarbonization strategies for each segment of the freight system.

<!-- -->

-   **Zero-Emissions Freight Corridor Strategy:** Last month, the Joint
    Office, in collaboration with DOE, DOT, and EPA, released the
    [National Zero-Emission Freight Corridor
    Strategy](https://driveelectric.gov/files/zef-corridor-strategy.pdf),
    a vision for the development of charging and hydrogen refueling
    infrastructure along high-volume freight highways and hubs by 2040.
    To complement this multi-phase strategy, [DOT designated National
    Electric Vehicle Freight Corridors along the National Highway
    Freight
    Network](https://highways.dot.gov/newsroom/biden-harris-administration-releases-first-ever-national-strategy-accelerate-deployment)
    and other key roadways.

<!-- -->

-   **Heavy Duty Vehicle Regulations:** In December 2022, EPA finalized
    standards to reduce emissions that form smog and soot from Model
    Year 2027 and later heavy-duty engines and in March 2024, the agency
    finalized new [greenhouse gas emission
    standards](https://www.epa.gov/regulations-emissions-vehicles-and-engines/final-rule-greenhouse-gas-emissions-standards-heavy-duty)
    from heavy-duty vehicles for Model Years 2027-2032. The standards
    will avoid 1 billion tons of greenhouse gas emissions and provide
    $13 billion in annualized net benefits to society related to public
    health, the climate, and savings for truck owners and operators. The
    final standards will also reduce dangerous air pollution, especially
    for the 72 million people in the United States who live near truck
    freight routes, bear the burden of higher levels of pollution, and
    are more likely to be people of color or come from low-income
    households.

**<u>Advancing Environmental Justice for All</u>** ****

Throughout the process of building a strategy to implement this new goal
to transition to a zero-emissions freight ecosystem, the Biden-Harris
Administration will provide opportunities for meaningful engagement from
relevant stakeholders, including communities with environmental justice
concerns, Tribal Nations, state and local governments, manufacturers of
heavy-duty vehicles and equipment, fleets and freight operators, and
climate and environmental justice organizations. Such engagement will
ensure the federal government’s actions to reduce emissions are better
targeted, more effective, and reflect the priorities of community groups
that have frontline experience with air pollution from the freight
sector.

Disparities in ambient air quality have widened over the last decade
even as air pollution levels have fallen, and the burden of persistent
levels of elevated air pollution remains more heavily borne by
communities of color and low-income families. While 120 million
Americans live in places with unhealthy air quality, a higher percentage
of the exposed population are people of color, who experience nearly
eight times higher rates of pediatric asthma and 1.3 times higher risk
of dying prematurely from exposure to pollutants. High levels of air
pollution are often found in neighborhoods ringed by factories or next
to highways, despite most sources meeting emission standards.

President Biden and Vice President Harris believe that every person has
a right to breathe clean air and live in a healthy community – now and
into the future. That is why, during his first week in office, President
Biden signed [Executive
Order](https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2021/02/01/2021-02177/tackling-the-climate-crisis-at-home-and-abroad)
14008, launching the most ambitious environmental justice agenda in our
Nation’s history. To continue delivering on that vision, last year
President Biden signed [Executive
Order](https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2023/04/26/2023-08955/revitalizing-our-nations-commitment-to-environmental-justice-for-all)
14096 focused on ensuring environmental justice for all people, further
embedding environmental justice into the work of federal agencies to
achieve real, measurable progress that communities can count on.

As the Biden-Harris Administration leads an all-of-government approach
to cut pollution from heavy-duty vehicles, it will build on ongoing work
and structure to further advance environmental justice, including:

-   **Commitment to Identifying and Investing in Disadvantaged
    Communities**: Established in his first week in office, the
    President’s [Justice40
    Initiative](https://www.whitehouse.gov/environmentaljustice/justice40/)
    set a goal that 40 percent of the overall benefits of certain
    federal climate, clean energy, clean transit, and other investments
    flow to disadvantaged communities that are marginalized by
    underinvestment and overburdened by pollution. To date, [518
    programs across 19 federal
    agencies](https://www.whitehouse.gov/ceq/news-updates/2023/11/29/biden-harris-administration-continues-to-accelerate-environmental-justice-in-disadvantaged-communities-through-the-presidents-investing-in-america-agenda/),
    including 74 Inflation Reduction Act-funded programs, are being
    reimagined and transformed to  meet the Justice40 goal and ensure
    the benefits reach the communities that need them most, including
    cleaner air and accessible public transit. Federal agencies are
    making this happen with the [Climate and Economic Justice Screening
    Tool](https://screeningtool.geoplatform.gov/en), which is used to
    identify disadvantaged communities that benefit from the Justice40
    Initiative.

<!-- -->

-   **Environmental Justice Across the Federal Government:** Agencies
    across the Biden-Harris Administration, including DOT, DOE, and EPA,
    are pursuing a suite of actions that advance environmental justice,
    including through grants, strategic planning, and collaborative
    partnerships, and by strengthening public health protections under
    the Clean Air Act to reduce air pollution from mobile and stationary
    sources (e.g., revised ambient air quality standards, updated
    emission standards for passenger cars, commercial trucks and buses).

\###
