---
date: '2024-04-25'
published_time: 2024-04-25 14:41:26-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/04/25/vice-president-kamala-harris-launches-nationwide-economic-opportunity-tour/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Vice President Kamala\_Harris Launches Nationwide Economic Opportunity\_Tour"
---
 
*The Vice President will kick off her multi-state tour with a moderated
conversation in Atlanta, GA on April 29 and an event in Detroit, MI
during the following week*

**WASHINGTON –** Vice President Kamala Harris announced today that she
will embark on a nationwide Economic Opportunity Tour with a series of
events focused on investing in communities, building wealth, and
ensuring every American has the freedom to thrive. The Vice President’s
tour will take her back to several states across the country as she
highlights how the Biden-Harris Administration has built economic
opportunity and delivered for the American people. The Economic
Opportunity Tour will kick off with a moderated conversation in Atlanta,
GA on April 29 and an event in Detroit, MI during the following week.
Additional dates and locations will be announced soon.

“President Biden and I are committed to creating an economy in which
every person has the freedom to thrive. That is why we have taken
historic steps to advance economic opportunity by increasing access to
capital, investing in small businesses, addressing housing costs,
forgiving student loans and medical debt, investing in infrastructure,
and championing additional policies that put money in people’s pockets
and build wealth,” **said Vice President Harris.  **“Our economic
approach has delivered great progress, and we will continue to invest in
you, your family, and your future.”

During the Vice President’s Economic Opportunity Tour, she will
highlight how the Biden-Harris Administration has delivered historic
investments that have supported communities and helped people thrive.
This includes making unprecedented investments in small businesses and
achieving the fastest creation of Black-owned small businesses in more
than 30 years, creating a record number of jobs, increasing access to
capital for underserved communities, investing in infrastructure,
cutting the price of insulin and expanding access to health care,
erasing medical debt, forgiving more student loan debt than any
administration in history and boosting investments in education, making
housing more affordable, lowering child care costs, and increasing the
wealth of American families. Vice President Harris will also outline
additional steps that she and President Biden are taking to expand this
work. She will be joined on the tour by Administration officials,
members of Congress, local leaders, and other special guests.

The Vice President’s tour is a continuation of her nonstop travel to
communities across the country. She has made more than 35 trips to 16
states since the beginning of 2024. This includes consistent travel to
meet with small business owners and entrepreneurs in underserved
communities to discuss challenges and opportunities they face. In March,
she traveled to Black Wall Street in Durham, NC to
[announce](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/03/01/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-on-historic-investments-in-strengthening-entrepreneurship-increasing-access-to-capital-and-supporting-small-businesses-durham-nc/)
$32 million in funds to support historically underserved entrepreneurs.
She began the year in Las Vegas, NV where she
[announced](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/01/27/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-on-uplifting-small-businesses-and-supporting-entrepreneurship-las-vegas-nv/)
an SBA rule that will ensure millions of Americans who have served time
are eligible for SBA loan programs that help individuals start and run
small businesses.

The Vice President has long been focused on ensuring that minority,
rural, and low-income communities have the capital and resources they
need to thrive and support small businesses. Last year, she
[announced](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/10/25/fact-sheet-vice-president-harris-announces-new-efforts-to-expand-capital-access-and-contracting-opportunities-for-minority-owned-and-underserved-businesses-at-the-freedmans-bank-forum/)
that Treasury’s CDFI Fund has awarded over $1.73 billion in grants to
603 Community Development Financial Institutions (CDFIs) across the
country. In 2022, the Vice President also
[announced](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/07/28/fact-sheet-vice-president-announces-new-private-and-public-sector-efforts-to-align-tens-of-billions-in-investments-in-underserved-communities/)
a first-of-its-kind public-private sector initiative — the Economic
Opportunity Coalition (EOC) — that is a historic public-private
partnership of more than 20 private sector organizations that will
invest tens of billions of dollars to create opportunity and grow wealth
in historically underserved communities. The EOC has already surpassed
over $1 billion in increased member company deposits into community
finance institutions. As a Senator, the Vice President partnered with
key Congressional stakeholders to secure a transformative $12 billion
investment for CDFIs and MDIs in December 2020. Since that time, she has
worked to ensure these programs are as successful as possible.

Additional dates, cities, and *details for media to RSVP will be
available soon.*

\# \# \#
