---
date: '2024-04-29'
modified_time: 2024-04-28 21:50:44-04:00
published_time: 2024-04-29 05:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/04/29/fact-sheet-vice-president-harris-kicks-off-nationwide-economic-opportunity-tour-in-atlanta/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Vice President Harris Kicks Off Nationwide Economic Opportunity\
  \ Tour in\_Atlanta"
---
 
*Vice President Harris’s visit highlights recent $158 million
Reconnecting Communities Award for The Stitch project to reconnect
Atlanta neighborhoods and drive economic growth*

*Vice President Harris to meet with small business owners who are taking
advantage of Biden-Harris Administration resources to help launch and
scale their businesses*

  
Today, Vice President Kamala Harris is kicking off a nationwide Economic
Opportunity Tour with a stop in Atlanta, GA. During this multi-state
tour, the Vice President will be traveling across the country to
highlight how the Biden-Harris Administration has built economic
opportunity, supported communities, and delivered for the American
people. The tour reflects President Biden and Vice President Harris’
commitment to invest in all of America, create an economy in which every
person has the freedom to thrive, and help underserved entrepreneurs
access historic investments available locally to launch and scale their
businesses, build wealth, and strengthen their communities.  
  
**While in Atlanta, Vice President Harris will highlight how the city is
receiving $158 million for “The Stitch” project to reconnect midtown to
downtown Atlanta through the Biden-Harris Administration’s
first-of-its-kind Reconnecting Communities and Neighborhoods Program**.
When constructed, the Downtown Connector sliced through communities like
Sweet Auburn, cutting it off from Downtown and displacing hundreds of
homes and businesses in primarily Black working-class neighborhoods. The
Stitch project will create a 14-acre mixed-use development cap on
three-quarters of the Downtown Connector—increasing access to jobs,
housing, education, and healthcare and creating public parks, plazas,
and surface streets for walking and biking.  
  
The Stitch is only one of the projects awarded across more than 40
states as part of the announcement of $3.3 billion from the Reconnecting
Communities and Neighborhoods Program, which is funded by the
President’s Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and Inflation Reduction Act.
This program will help rectify the damage done by past transportation
projects – decades of harmful urban renewal projects and legacy policy
decisions in the buildout of the Federal highway system that the
Department of Transportation estimates displaced over a million people
and businesses – while driving economic growth in underserved
communities and helping advance racial equity.  
  
The Reconnecting Communities and Neighborhoods Program is yet another
way the Biden-Harris Administration is advancing economic opportunity,
while taking on the legacy of harm in communities that have grappled
with decades of disinvestment or economic distress. The Administration
is focused on supporting economic comebacks in communities across the
country; especially those that have suffered from decades of
disinvestment.  
  
The President and Vice President’s strategy for investing in all of
America has helped lead to a historically strong and equitable recovery,
and a small business boom that is lifting communities across the
country. Under the Biden-Harris Administration we’ve seen the three
strongest years for new business applications on record. At the same
time, Black business ownership has grown at its fastest pace in 30 years
and the Latino new entrepreneurship rate reaching an all-time high in
2023. Today, the White House released the *Building on the Biden-Harris
Small Business Boom* report to celebrate the start of National Small
Business week and actions the Administration has taken to deliver for
small businesses including:

-   **Setting New Records – over $178 billion, representing more than
    28% of federal contract spending – in Federal Procurement Dollars
    Awarded to Small Businesses, including over $76 billion to Small
    Disadvantaged Businesses in Fiscal Year 2023**
-   **On pace to nearly double the number of small dollar loans to small
    businesses in Fiscal Year 2024 thanks to Biden-Harris Administration
    policies.** Less than one year since implementing policy reforms to
    increase access to small dollar loans, the Small Business
    Administration (SBA) is on pace to increase approved 7(a) loans
    under $150,000 by a third compared to Fiscal Year 2023 and nearly
    double the number of small loans approved compared to the final year
    of the previous Administration.
-   **Through the American Rescue Plan’s State Small Business Credit
    Initiative (SSBCI), Treasury has approved over $8 billion in SSBCI
    capital support for small businesses** that is expected to catalyze
    at least $10 in private investment for each dollar of SSBCI capital
    funding.
-   **On track to deliver more than $250 billion to more than 500,000
    small businesses through SBA’s lending programs by the end of the
    decade, meeting Biden-Harris Administration commitment**. Since
    President Biden and Vice President Harris took office, SBA has taken
    numerous steps to expand access to capital – including finalizing
    rules to increase small dollar lending, expanding programs that help
    connect traditionally underserved businesses with resources, and
    revamping its Lender Match portal – leading to the delivery of
    nearly $124 billion in financing to small businesses through its
    7(a), 504, and microloan programs to date.

Additionally, as part of her economic opportunity tour stop in Atlanta,
the Vice President is helping highlight the historic Biden-Harris
Administration investments in access to capital and small business
support that are available to help entrepreneurs scale and grow their
businesses in Georgia, including:

-   **With a $65 million investment from the American Rescue Plan
    (ARP), the **[**Georgia Artificial Intelligence in Manufacturing
    (Georgia AIM) Coalition**](https://georgiaaim.org/)**, led by the
    Georgia Institute of Technology, is driving the equitable
    development and deployment of innovation and talent in artificial
    intelligence for manufacturing across Georgia**. Built as a network
    of over 40 partners – including the Technical College System of
    Georgia, Spelman College, Russell Innovation Center for
    Entrepreneurs, Georgia Cyber Center at Augusta University,
    Technology Association of Georgia Education, 21<sup>st</sup> Century
    Partnership, SW Regional Commission, University of Georgia and
    others – Georgia AIM is establishing an ecosystem focused on
    workforce development, technology innovation, and resilience in
    manufacturing.

Georgia AIM is one of 21 regional coalitions awarded funding through the
ARP’s $1 billion [Build Back Better Regional Challenge
(BBBRC)](https://www.eda.gov/arpa/build-back-better/) – led by the
Commerce Department’s Economic Development Administration and the most
impactful regional economic development competition in decades. These
regional coalitions are growing critical industries that will strengthen
regional economies, promote inclusive and equitable growth, and create
thousands of good-paying jobs in industries of the future such as clean
energy, next-generation manufacturing, and biotechnology. Across the
nation, BBBRC projects are dedicating $140 million to help increase new
business growth and entrepreneurial activity and $100 million to help
small and midsized businesses adopt new processes and enter new
markets.  

-   **Through five lending and equity programs, Georgia’s ARP-funded
    State Small Business Credit Initiative is expected to deliver close
    to $200 million in capital support to Georgia small businesses and
    catalyze roughly $2 billion in private funding.** Entrepreneurs in
    Georgia
    can [apply](https://www.dca.ga.gov/community-economic-development/funding-programs/state-small-business-credit-initiative-ssbci/how) through
    state-approved lenders to access these programs.

Georgia’s SSBCI program is part of the President and Vice President’s
historic nearly $10 billion nationwide investment in capital access for
small businesses through the Treasury Department’s ARP-funded SSBCI,
which is expected to leverage $10 in private capital for every $1 of
SSBCI capital and support roughly forty-six states and territories
committing nearly $3 billion from SSBCI to equity-based financing
programs, including over $1.4 billion through partnerships with private
venture capital funds – the single largest infusion of federal funding
for equity participation in early-stage small businesses in history.
These investments are expected to catalyze over $30 billion in
additional private investment and follow-on funding over the decade that
will help underserved entrepreneurs tap into a critical source of
capital for business development and wealth creation that has
traditionally suffered from some of the most restrictive barriers to
access.

-   **The ARP-funded Capital Readiness Program (CRP) is helping the
    Urban League of Greater Atlanta to deliver incubator and accelerator
    services through its Entrepreneurship Center to historically
    underserved entrepreneurs **that are starting or operating
    enterprises in high-growth industries including healthcare,
    climate-resilient technology, infrastructure, and transportation and
    logistics. Capital Readiness programing is helping underserved
    entrepreneurs get the mentoring, coaching, and guidance in
    relationship building needed to help prepare for, secure, and deploy
    capital.

The Urban League of Greater Atlanta was one of the 43 winners of the
$125 million CRP awards competition announced by Vice President Harris
in August of 2023. This critical funding, administered by the Minority
Business Development Agency (MBDA), is the largest-ever direct Federal
investment in small business incubators and accelerators of its kind and
the largest initiative in the over 50-year history of the MBDA.

-   **Three Georgia-based Community Development Financial Institutions
    (CDFIs) received over $125 million in Emergency Capital Investment
    Program (ECIP) investments to increase their lending and investments
    to support small businesses and consumers in their communities**,
    including two minority depository institutions (MDIs): Citizens
    Trust Bank in Atlanta and the Carver Financial Corporation in
    Savannah. These investments, stemming from funding Vice President
    Harris secured during her time in the Senate, are supporting low-
    and moderate-income community financial institutions across the
    country in providing loans, grants, and forbearance for small
    businesses, minority-owned businesses, and consumers, especially in
    low-income and underserved communities. Nationally, Treasury
    projects that the more than $8.57 billion invested in 175
    federally-insured depository institutions that are CDFIs or MDIs
    through ECIP may increase lending in Hispanic communities by nearly
    $58 billion and in Black communities by up to $80 billion over the
    next decade.

\###
