---
date: '2024-04-11'
published_time: 2024-04-11 20:06:02-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/04/11/joint-vision-statement-from-the-leaders-of-japan-the-philippines-and-the-united-states/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Joint Vision Statement from the Leaders of Japan, the Philippines, and the\
  \ United\_States"
---
 
We, the leaders of Japan, the Philippines, and the United States, met
today for the first Summit between our three countries. As three
Indo-Pacific maritime democracies, our nations and the half-billion
people we collectively represent are bound together by historical ties
of friendship, robust and growing economic relations, and a proud and
resolute commitment to our shared fundamental values of freedom,
democracy, respect for human rights, and the rule of law. We gather
today in Washington as equal partners and trusted friends, united by the
vision we share of a free and open Indo-Pacific and international order
based on international law—a vision we pledge to advance together for
decades to come. We believe, fundamentally, that by working together, we
can advance the security and prosperity of our own nations, the
Indo-Pacific region, and the world.  
   
Our historic Summit today is the culmination of decades of partnership
and builds on the recent momentum of our governments’ trilateral
efforts. In June 2023, our national security advisors met in Tokyo, and
again virtually in December 2023, to establish a common framework for
trilateral cooperation among our nations. In July and September 2023,
our foreign ministers met to advance our shared agenda on economic
security, development, humanitarian assistance, maritime security, and
defense. In September 2023, Prime Minister Kishida, President Marcos,
and Vice President Harris met to deepen our trilateral cooperation.
Following today’s Summit, we intend to further expand trilateral
engagements across our governments and to intensify our cooperative
efforts across sectors.  
   
Our three nations share a firm commitment to a free and open
Indo-Pacific that is connected, prosperous, secure, inclusive, and
resilient. We welcome coordination and cooperation with a wide range of
partners who share these goals. In that spirit, we affirm our unwavering
support for ASEAN centrality and unity, and the ASEAN Outlook on the
Indo-Pacific. We underscore our support for Pacific Island countries and
intend to transparently and effectively work in partnership with the
Pacific Islands Forum (PIF) to support the 2050 Strategy for the Blue
Pacific Continent. Additionally, we welcome efforts to support a
peaceful and stable, rules-based Indo-Pacific region, including from the
Quad, AUKUS, and the U.S.-Japan-Republic of Korea trilateral
framework.  
   
***<u>Promoting Inclusive Economic Growth and Economic
Resilience</u>***  
   
Our three nations resolve to promote enduring, inclusive economic growth
and resilience in our countries and the broader Indo-Pacific. We are
pursuing economic projects that advance our shared objectives: promoting
broad-based and sustainable economic growth, and investing in resilient,
reliable, and diversified supply chains. We support the continued
progress of the Indo-Pacific Economic Framework for Prosperity (IPEF) to
advance resilience, sustainability, inclusiveness, economic growth,
fairness, and competitiveness for our economies and the broader region.
President Marcos welcomes President Biden’s recent Presidential Trade
and Investment Mission to the Philippines and the announcement of more
than $1 billion in U.S. private sector investments that help promote the
Philippines’ innovation economy, clean energy transition, and supply
chain resilience, as well as the continued U.S. commitment to mobilizing
private sector investment in the Philippines. President Marcos
appreciates Japan’s contribution of Official Development Assistance and
private sector investment in its 2022-2023 fiscal year, which exceeded
the pledge of JPY 600 billion made in the 2023 Japan-Philippines Joint
Statement. We welcome the first trilateral commerce and industry
ministers’ meeting that took place earlier today to advance our shared
agenda. Our three nations commit to facilitating the steady
implementation of ongoing and future economic cooperation projects
toward the Philippines’ attainment of upper middle income country status
and beyond.  
   
We express concern over and strongly oppose economic coercion, stress
the importance of a rules-based economic order, and underscore the need
for close coordination in dealing with economic coercion.  
   
***<u>Announcing the Luzon Corridor</u>***  
   
Our three nations are proud to partner on the first Partnership for
Global Infrastructure and Investment corridor in the Indo-Pacific. Today
we are launching the Luzon Economic Corridor, which will support
connectivity between Subic Bay, Clark, Manila, and Batangas in the
Philippines. Through this corridor, part of the Partnership for Global
Infrastructure and Investment-IPEF Accelerator, Japan, the Philippines,
and the United States commit to accelerating coordinated investments in
high-impact infrastructure projects, including rail; ports
modernization; clean energy and semiconductor supply chains and
deployments; agribusiness; and civilian port upgrades at Subic Bay.
Japan has long been supporting connectivity in this area, including
rails and roads, through Japan International Cooperation Agency. We plan
to work with multilateral organizations and the private sector to
attract quality, transformative investments. Together we intend to hold
a trilateral event promoting investment in the Luzon Corridor on the
margins of the Indo-Pacific Business Forum in Manila in May—the premier
U.S. commercial event in the region. The U.S. International Development
Finance Corporation also intends to open a regional office in the
Philippines to facilitate further investments across the Philippines.
The Luzon Corridor is a demonstration of our enhanced economic
cooperation, focused on delivering tangible investments across multiple
sectors. Japan, the Philippines, and the United States are also
partnering to expand cooperation and investments in other areas of the
Philippines.  
   
***<u>Developing Critical and Emerging Technologies</u>***  
   
We commit to harnessing the talents and ingenuity of our citizens to
seize cutting-edge technological opportunities. The United States,
subject to Congressional notification, and Japan, with support from
Japanese industry, intend to provide at least $8 million for Open Radio
Access Network (RAN) field trials and the Asia Open RAN Academy based in
Manila, to enable future commercial deployment and an open,
interoperable, secure, reliable, and trusted information communications
technology ecosystem in the Philippines. This builds on prior U.S. and
Japanese investment of over $9 million for these projects in the
Philippines. The government of Japan is also seriously considering
further investments for the potential commercial deployment of Open RAN
technology in the Philippines, including from the Global South
Future-Oriented Co-Creation Project. The United States and Japan welcome
the Philippines’ plan to pilot Open RAN in its national broadband
program and free Wi-Fi project. The United States and Japan commend the
Philippines’ commitment to develop a national Open RAN policy framework,
reaffirming the Philippines’ endorsement of open, interoperable, and
trusted architectures. This year, our three countries look forward to
holding the first trilateral Cyber and Digital Dialogue to explore
additional cooperation opportunities.  
   
We intend to pursue a new semiconductor workforce development
initiative, through which students from the Philippines will receive
world-class training at leading American and Japanese universities, to
help secure our nations’ semiconductor supply chains. This initiative
complements the expansion of semiconductor investments in the
Philippines that would strengthen supply chain resiliency among our
three nations. Furthermore, through the CHIPS and Science Act’s
International Technology Security and Innovation Fund, the United States
and the Philippines plan to coordinate our efforts to develop and expand
the Philippine semiconductor workforce to strengthen the global supply
chain.  
   
***<u>Advancing Climate Partnership and Clean Energy Supply
Chains</u>***  
   
Recognizing the existential threat of the climate crisis, we affirm our
commitment to take urgent action this decade to reduce greenhouse gas
emissions in line with a 1.5 degrees Celsius warming limit and
accelerate efforts to build clean energy economies, while noting
different national circumstances. <img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/71709ebb-f962-4e8d-9940-8237f3363e63"
decoding="async" alt="Anchor" />Our three nations seek to expand
trilateral cooperation in the Philippines on the deployment of clean
energy technologies, including renewable energy projects such as solar
and wind, to support energy requirements in the Philippines and help
ensure a just energy transition. We also welcome the first Nuclear
Energy Summit in Brussels on March 21, where participants from more than
35 countries, including Japan, the Philippines, and the United States,
recognized nuclear energy as an important component of a multifaceted
and inclusive clean energy transition. Recognizing the Philippines’
request for further training and capacity building for scientists,
engineers, and relevant personnel and policy-makers, our three nations
seek to expand our partnership on safe and secure civil-nuclear capacity
building. Under the Foundational Infrastructure for Responsible Use of
Small Modular Reactor Technology (FIRST) program, the United States and
Japan plan to co-host a nuclear energy study tour in Japan for nuclear
experts and policy decision-makers from the Philippines and other FIRST
partner countries. We also plan to deepen trilateral cooperation on
civilian nuclear workforce development through a trilateral dialogue
this year, to advance the Philippines’ civil nuclear energy program.  
   
Japan, the Philippines, and the United States are working together to
expand cooperation for the transition to clean energy and create
high-standard, clean energy supply chain jobs across our three nations
through the mutually beneficial development of resources in clear,
transparent, and fair market competition with strong protections for
labor rights and the environment. Japan, the Philippines, and the United
States support critical minerals industries in all of our countries as a
way to promote resilient and reliable global supply chains for critical
minerals. We share the goal of producing and supplying battery materials
and batteries for electric vehicles and energy storage systems for the
global marketplace. The United States, under the International Visitor
Leadership Program, plans to manage a clean energy supply chain training
program for select participants from Japan and the Philippines. In
addition, the United States and Japan look forward to the Philippines
being a founding member of the Minerals Security Partnership Forum,
which signifies an important step towards securing and diversifying our
collective clean energy supply chains.  
   
***<u>Partnering for Peace and Security</u>***  
                                                                                
                                                                                  
Today, President Biden reaffirms the ironclad U.S. alliance commitments
to both Japan and the Philippines, which have helped safeguard peace and
security in the Indo-Pacific for decades. We underscore our nations’
unwavering commitment to freedom of navigation and overflight, and the
importance of respecting the sovereign rights of states within their
exclusive economic zones consistent with international law, as reflected
in the 1982 United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS).  
   
We express our serious concerns about the People’s Republic of China’s
(PRC) dangerous and aggressive behavior in the South China Sea. We are
also concerned by the militarization of reclaimed features and unlawful
maritime claims in the South China Sea. We steadfastly oppose the
dangerous and coercive use of Coast Guard and maritime militia vessels
in the South China Sea, as well as efforts to disrupt other countries’
offshore resource exploitation. We reiterate serious concern over the
PRC’s repeated obstruction of Philippine vessels’ exercise of high seas
freedom of navigation and the disruption of supply lines to Second
Thomas Shoal, which constitute dangerous and destabilizing conduct. The
final and legally binding July 12, 2016 Arbitral Tribunal determined
that this feature lies within the Philippines’ exclusive economic zone,
and we call on the PRC to abide by the ruling.  
   
We express our serious concerns regarding the situation in the East
China Sea, and reiterate our strong opposition to any attempts by the
PRC to unilaterally change the status quo by force or coercion in the
East China Sea, including through actions that seek to undermine Japan’s
longstanding and peaceful administration of the Senkaku Islands.  
   
We affirm the importance of peace and stability across the Taiwan Strait
as an indispensable element of global security and prosperity, recognize
that there is no change in our basic positions on Taiwan, and call for a
peaceful resolution of cross-Strait issues.  
   
We welcome recent cooperation among our three nations in support of a
free and open Indo-Pacific and commit to deepening that cooperation. The
U.S. and Japan continue to support Philippine Coast Guard capacity
building, including through Japan’s recent provision of twelve Coast
Guard vessels and plans to provide five additional vessels to the
Philippines.  Following the first-ever joint exercise between our coast
guards in 2023, the United States looks forward to welcoming Philippine
and Japan Coast Guard members onto a U.S. Coast Guard vessel during a
patrol in the Indo-Pacific this year. Within the next year, our coast
guards also plan to conduct an at-sea trilateral exercise and other
maritime activities in the Indo-Pacific to improve interoperability and
advance maritime security and safety. We announce the establishment of a
trilateral maritime dialogue to enhance coordination and collective
responses to promote maritime cooperation. We are concerned about
illegal, unreported, and unregulated fishing. We support the ability of
Filipino and Japanese fisherfolk to pursue their traditional
livelihoods. To build regional capacity and address threats posed by
transnational crime, illegal, unreported, and unregulated fishing, and
other maritime challenges, Japan, the Philippines, and the United States
plan to expand our efforts to provide maritime law enforcement training
and support to partner countries in the region.  
   
Our three nations pledge to strengthen our extensive coordination to
promote maritime domain awareness and deepen cooperation on humanitarian
assistance and disaster relief. We emphasize our commitment to advancing
multilateral maritime domain awareness cooperation through such venues
as the Indo-Pacific Partnership for Maritime Domain Awareness (IPMDA).
We intend to identify and implement opportunities for combined training
with Southeast Asian regional partners. We are also launching a
Japan-Philippines-U.S. humanitarian assistance and disaster response
exercise, which could be integrated into trilateral or multilateral
activities, including Balikatan 2025, to ensure our countries are ready
and able to work together seamlessly and expeditiously in response to
any crisis or contingency. We resolve to advance trilateral defense
cooperation, including through combined naval training and exercises
between our three countries and additional partners, such as the
recently concluded Maritime Cooperative Activity between Japan, the
Philippines, the United States, and Australia, and by coordinating U.S.
and Japanese support for Philippine defense modernization priorities. We
plan to conduct a maritime training activity around Japan in 2025. Japan
also continues to contribute through its new “Official Security
Assistance” cooperation framework.  The U.S. and the Philippines welcome
Japan’s revision of the Three Principles on the Transfer of Defense
Equipment and Technology and its Implementation Guidelines, which
bolsters cooperation through joint development and production to enhance
our deterrence capabilities in the region. The U.S. and Japan also
welcome the growing defense cooperation between Australia and the
Philippines and between the Philippines and the Republic of Korea.  
   
Our three nations affirm our commitment to the complete denuclearization
of the Korean Peninsula and strongly condemn the Democratic People’s
Republic of Korea’s (DPRK) escalatory threats and unprecedented number
of ballistic missile launches, including multiple intercontinental
ballistic missile launches, which pose a grave threat to peace and
security. We emphasize the importance of addressing the human rights and
humanitarian concerns of the international community, including the
immediate resolution of the abductions issue. We strongly urge the DPRK
to comply with the relevant UN Security Council resolutions, and refrain
from continued development, testing, and transfer of ballistic missiles
to any country, including Russia, which has used these missiles against
Ukraine. We assert that these DPRK actions have severe security
implications for the Indo-Pacific and European regions. As we continue
to affirm our commitment to international law, including the United
Nations Charter, we reiterate our unwavering support for Ukraine’s
sovereignty, independence, and territorial integrity within its
internationally recognized borders. To that end, we recall the United
Nations General Assembly resolutions stating that no territorial
acquisition resulting from the threat or use of force shall be
recognized as legal. Russia’s threats of nuclear weapon use in the
context of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine are unacceptable, and we state
unequivocally that any use of a nuclear weapon by Russia in Ukraine
would be completely unjustifiable.  
   
We reaffirm our joint pursuit of a world without nuclear weapons, with
the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty as its cornerstone, and call on
nuclear weapon states to promote stability and transparency, and engage
in substantive dialogue on reducing nuclear risks. As founding members
of the “FMCT Friends,” we also call for the immediate commencement of
long-overdue negotiations on a treaty banning the production of fissile
material for nuclear weapons.  
   
We are committed to championing gender equality and the rights of women
and girls in all their diversity. In this regard, we commit to
strengthening the Women, Peace and Security (WPS) Agenda. We highlight
the leading role of women in preventing violent conflict, delivering
relief and recovery efforts and pledge to advance the full, equal and
meaningful participation of women in peace and political processes. We
welcome the Philippines hosting an International Conference on Women,
Peace, and Security in October this year, to review global
implementation of the United Nations Security Council Resolution 1325
ahead of its 25<sup>th</sup> Anniversary in 2025.  
   
Finally, we underscore the importance of strong democratic institutions,
the rule of law, and respect for human rights, gender equality, and
human dignity. We represent proud, resilient democracies, mindful of our
respective challenges but determined to overcome them, and we remain
committed to safeguarding the human rights, media freedom, and labor
rights of our people. These democratic values form the very foundation
of our bilateral relationships and this trilateral partnership. These
ideals have helped us build and sustain the mutual trust between us as
leaders and between our people. United by these shared values, we commit
to continuing our work together to address the consequential issues of
our time, and to build a better future for future generations across our
nations, the Indo-Pacific, and the world.  
   
A new trilateral chapter between our three nations begins today.

\###
