---
date: '2024-04-22'
modified_time: 2024-04-22 07:36:17-04:00
published_time: 2024-04-22 05:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/04/22/fact-sheet-vice-president-harris-announces-historic-advancements-in-long-term-care-to-support-the-care-economy/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Fact Sheet: Vice President Harris Announces Historic Advancements in Long-Term\
  \ Care to Support the Care\_Economy"
---
 
*Actions are the latest in a series of steps the Biden-Harris
Administration has taken to improve safety, provide support for care
workers and family caregivers, and to expand access to affordable,
high-quality care  
*

Everyone deserves to be treated with dignity and respect and to have
access to quality care. That’s why, today, Vice President Harris is
announcing two landmark final rules that fulfill the President’s
commitment to safety in care, improving access to long-term care and the
quality of caregiving jobs. Ensuring that all Americans, including older
Americans and people with disabilities, have access to care – including
home-based care – that is safe, reliable, and of high quality is an
important part of the President’s agenda and a part of the President’s
broader commitment to care. Today’s announcements deliver on the
President’s promise in the State of the Union to crack down on nursing
homes that endanger resident safety as well as his historic Executive
Order on Increasing Access to High-Quality Care and Supporting
Caregivers, which included the most comprehensive set of executive
actions any President has taken to improve care for millions of seniors
and people with disabilities while supporting care workers and family
caregivers.

  
**Cracking Down on Inadequate Nursing Home Care**

  
Medicare and Medicaid pay billions of dollars per year to ensure that
1.2 million Americans that receive care in nursing homes are cared for,
yet too many nursing homes chronically understaff their facilities,
leading to sub-standard or unsafe care. When facilities are
understaffed, residents may go without basic necessities like baths,
trips to the bathroom, and meals – and it is less safe when residents
have a medical emergency. Understaffing can also have a disproportionate
impact on women and people of color who make up a large proportion of
the nursing home workforce because, without sufficient support, these
dedicated workers can’t provide the care they know the residents
deserve. In his 2022 State of the Union address, President Biden pledged
that he would “protect seniors’ lives and life savings by cracking down
on nursing homes that commit fraud, endanger patient safety, or
prescribe drugs they don’t need.”

  
The Nursing Home Minimum Staffing Rule finalized today will require all
nursing homes that receive federal funding through Medicare and Medicaid
to have 3.48 hours per resident per day of total staffing, including a
defined number from both registered nurses (0.55 hours per resident per
day) and nurse aides (2.45 per resident per day). This means a facility
with 100 residents would need at least two or three RNs and at least ten
or eleven nurse aides as well as two additional nurse staff (which could
be registered nurses, licensed professional nurses, or nurse aides) per
shift to meet the minimum staffing standards. Many facilities would need
to staff at a higher level based on their residents’ needs. It will also
require facilities to have a registered nurse onsite 24 hours a day,
seven days a week, to provide skilled nursing care, which will further
improve nursing home safety. Adequate staffing is proven to be one of
the measures most strongly associated with safety and good care
outcomes.  

To make sure nursing homes have the time they need to hire necessary
staff, the requirements of this rule will be introduced in phases, with
longer timeframes for rural communities. Limited, temporary exemptions
will be available for both the 24/7 registered nurse requirement and the
underlying staffing standards for nursing homes in workforce shortage
areas that demonstrate a good faith effort to hire.

Strong transparency measures will ensure nursing home residents and
their families are aware when a nursing home is using an exemption.

  
This rule will not only benefit residents and their families, it will
also ensure that workers aren’t stretched too thin by having inadequate
staff on site, which is currently a common reason for worker burnout and
turnover. Workers who are on the frontlines interacting with residents
and understanding their needs will also be given a voice in developing
staffing plans for nursing homes. The Biden-Harris Administration also
continues to invest in expanding the pipeline of nursing workers and
other care workers, who are so essential to our economy, including
through funding from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.

  
**Improving Access to Home Care and the Quality of Home Care Jobs**

  
Over seven million seniors and people with disabilities, alongside their
families, rely on home and community-based services to provide for
long-term care needs in their own homes and communities. This critical
care is provided by a dedicated home care workforce, made up
disproportionately by women of color, that often struggles to make ends
meet due to low wages and few benefits. At the same time, home care is
still very inaccessible for many Medicaid enrollees, with more than
threequarters of home care providers not accepting new clients, leaving
hundreds of thousands of older Americans and Americans with disabilities
on waiting lists or struggling to afford the care they need.  

The “Ensuring Access to Medicaid Services” final rule, finalized today,
will help improve access to home care services as well as improve the
quality caregiving jobs through its new provisions for home care.
Specifically, the rule will ensure adequate compensation for home care
workers by requiring that at least 80 percent of Medicaid payments for
home care services go to workers’ wages. This policy would also allow
states to take into account the unique experiences that small home care
providers and providers in rural areas face while ensuring their
employees receive their fair share of Medicaid payments and continued
training as well as the delivery of quality care. Higher wages will
likely reduce turnover, leading to higher quality of care for older
adults and people with disabilities across the nation, as studies have
shown. States will also be required to be more transparent in how much
they pay for home care services and how they set those rates, increasing
the accountability for home care providers. Finally, states will have to
create a home care rate-setting advisory group made up of beneficiaries,
home care workers and other key stakeholders to advise and consult on
provider payment rates and direct compensation for direct care workers.

  
**Strong Record on Improving Access to Care and Supporting Caregivers**

  
Today’s new final rules are in addition to an already impressive track
record on delivering on the President’s Executive Order on Care. Over
the last year, the Biden-Harris Administration has:

-   Increased pay for care workers, including by proposing a rule to
    gradually increase pay for Head Start teachers by about $10,000, to
    reach parity with the salaries of public preschool teachers.
-   Cut child care costs for low-income families by finalizing a rule
    that will reduce or eliminate copayments for more than 100,000
    working families, and lowering the cost of care for lower earning
    service members, thereby reducing the cost of child care for nearly
    two-thirds of children receiving care on military bases. Military
    families earning $45,000 would see a 34% decrease in the amount they
    pay for child care.
-   Supported family caregivers by making it easier for family
    caregivers to access Medicare beneficiary information and provide
    more support as they prepare for their loved ones to be discharged
    from the hospital. The Administration has also expanded access to
    mental health services for tens of thousands of family caregivers
    who are helping veterans.

\###
