---
date: '2024-04-11'
modified_time: 2024-04-11 19:16:15-04:00
published_time: 2024-04-11 19:16:14-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/04/11/remarks-by-vice-president-kamala-harris-secretary-of-state-antony-blinken-and-prime-minister-kishida-fumio-of-japan-at-state-luncheon/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Remarks by Vice President Kamala\_Harris, Secretary of State Antony Blinken,\
  \ and Prime Minister Kishida Fumio of Japan at State\_Luncheon"
---
 
*U.S. Department of State  
Washington, D.C.*

12:54 P.M. EDT  
  
SECRETARY BLINKEN:  Thank you.  Good afternoon, everyone.  Please —
please be seated.  Mr. Prime Minister, Mrs. Kishida, Evan and I are so
honored to join Vice President Harris, Second Gentleman Emhoff in
welcoming you to the State Department.   
  
We’re delighted to be joined by a remarkable group of colleagues,
friends, and dignitaries.   
  
And a special salute to our colleagues from Congress who are here, who
just witnessed your remarkable speech.  I think it may be, as well, the
first time that anyone speaking before a joint session has managed to
reference “The Flintstones.”  (Laughter.)  But more about that later.  
  
Now, the very first time that the United States had the honor of hosting
a delegation from Japan was in 1860.  Their journey then took three
months to get here.  Upon arriving, they were received first at the
White House, then the State Department for what, I’m told, was a
boisterous dinner fueled by champagne, music, and dancing.  We’ll see
what we can do about that.  (Laughter.)    
  
The Japanese delegation observed a debate in the United States Senate. 
And at the U.S. Naval Observatory, they gazed through a telescope for
their first-ever close-up view of the surface of the Moon.  
  
From the time of that inaugural diplomatic mission, generations of
Americans and Japanese have had their horizons expanded by the exchange
between our countries.   
  
Since Tokyo’s mayor donated the first cherry trees — we’ve heard a lot
about cherry trees the last couple of days — to our nation’s capital
over a century ago, their blossoms are a way that many of us mark the
beginning of another spring, a reminder of our friendship and its
immeasurable impact on our people and on the entire world.   
  
I shared with the Prime Minister yesterday that people come from across
the United States to Washington because of the cherry trees.  It’s a
remarkable thing that this has become one of the most powerful symbols
of our capital, and it’s thanks to Japan.  
  
Over these past three years, we have invested tremendous energy into
making this relationship between our countries even stronger.  We
bolstered our security cooperation and increased our cooperation on
renewable energy.  We’re deepening collaboration on artificial
intelligence, on quantum computing, and on other technologies that will
shape the 21st century.   
  
Together with India and Australia, we’ve revitalized the Quad.  
  
We’ve elevated trilateral cooperation with the Republic of Korea to
unprecedented levels.  
  
Today, we’re taking a similarly ambitious step with the Philippines.  
  
We’re leading the G7 and meeting the fundamental challenges of our time,
from helping Ukrainians defend themselves against Russia’s war of
aggression to helping countries around the world build infrastructure
vital to expanding opportunity.   
  
We’re standing side by side in defending a free and open international
order that, for decades, has bolstered our shared security and
prosperity.  
  
That we’ve done all this in partnership with a son of Hiroshima speaks
to the spirit of healing and regeneration that animates this exceptional
relationship.  
  
Of course, the ties that bind us have been forged not only by our
governments but, principally, by generations of Japanese and Americans
from all walks of life.  And like the saplings that were brought here by
the Prime Minister, these relationships took root, they grew, and they
branched out in ways that were probably impossible to predict.   
  
In 1872, it was an American schoolteacher who introduced baseball to
Japan.  He taught at Kaisei Academy, the same high school where the
Prime Minister would eventually play second base.  (Laughter.)   
  
Akira Kurosawa’s 1954 classic, the “Seven Samurai,” inspired one of our
great Westerns, “The Magnificent Seven.”  Decades later, the American
Best Picture “Unforgiven” was remade in Japan with the cowboy traded in
for a samurai in Imperial Japan.   
  
In 1963, a Japanese trade official named Kishida Fumitake was posted in
New York City and brought along his then six-year-old son, Fumio.  The
future prime minister later said that his struggles at that time to
express himself in a new and unfamiliar language taught him, and I
quote, “the importance of listening, especially to those whose voices
often go unheard” and first inspired him to dream of a career in
politics.  
  
I think anyone who heard the Prime Minister speak last night at the
White House and today before our Congress know how he’s mastered the
ability to speak to people but also, based on what he says so clearly,
to listen to them.  This is a man of not only extraordinary leadership
but deep empathy that’s reflected in his leadership.  
  
Not far from here, at the Smithsonian’s Modern Art Museum, the record
for the two most popular exhibits are held by the same artist: Yayoi
Kusama.  Many of you have seen these installations, her “Infinity Mirror
Rooms,” where bright, glowing, polka dotted-cover — covered orbs seem to
extend on forever.  
  
Early in her career, Kusama wrote a letter to the great American painter
Georgia O’Keeffe looking for advice.  She dreamed of moving to New York
but felt daunted.  O’Keeffe wrote back to her, “Make the leap.”  Kusama
did, and the rest is truly infinity.  
  
These threads that connect our people, connect our cultures through
time, they feel a little bit like Kusama’s installations — spreading
with radiant, glowing ties as far as the eye can see, including into
space, where we’re working together on everything from running an
International Space Station to using the James Webb Telescope to better
understand how our universe was formed in the first place.   
  
     And now, more than 160 years after that first Japanese delegation
came to the United States and looked at the Naval Observatory through a
telescope at the moon, we’ve agreed to be the first two nations to step
foot on its surface together — and drive around on it, too.  We have a
lunar rover that Japan is building, a model of which you’ll be able to
see when you walk out of the State Department today.   
  
     So, please join me in raising a glass.  Thank you.   
  
     (An aide brings cups for the Vice President, Secretary of State,
and Prime Minister.)  
  
     Thank you very much.   
  
     To all the places we can imagine our extraordinary friendship will
take us and even more to all the places we cannot even imagine in this
moment going but where we know our determination, our innovation, and
especially our friendship and cooperation will one day allow us to walk
together.   
  
     PRIME MINISTER KISHIDA:  Cheers.  
  
     SECRETARY BLINKEN:  Cheers.   
  
     VICE PRESIDENT HARRIS:  Well done.  
  
     SECRETARY BLINKEN:  And now, ladies and gentlemen, it’s a great
pleasure for me to hand the microphone over to someone who, as Vice
President, made her very first trip — foreign trip in that capacity to
the Indo-Pacific, someone who has been leading our efforts these past
three years to deepen, to strengthen our ties to our most critical
partners in the world.  Ladies and gentlemen, the Vice President of the
United States.  (Applause.)    
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Good
afternoon.  Good afternoon.  Good afternoon.  Good afternoon.  Thank
you.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you, all, and good
afternoon.  
  
     Secretary Blinken, Ms. Evan Ryan, it is yet again an honor for Doug
and I to co-host this important luncheon with you and to welcome Prime
Minister Kishida and Mrs. Kishida.   
  
     And welcome, again, to all of our distinguished guests.  I look
around this room and I see extraordinary leaders of our two countries
who are doing so much to lay the foundation and reinforce the work that
we are doing at this level to strengthen the relationship between our
two nations.  And I thank you for that.   
  
     Mr. Prime Minister, it is wonderful to welcome you back to
Washington, D.C.  As President of the United States Senate, I also had
the great honor of — of co-chairing your presentation to the joint
session of Congress.  And you make quite clear that Japan will continue
to be strong as a partner and a dear, close friend of the United
States.  
  
     And Secretary Blinken mentioned that the Prime Minister made
reference in his presentation to the joint session of “The
Flintstones.”  (Laughter.)  Many of us will remember the cartoon.  I
thought it was particularly poignant when he said but he’s not sure how
to translate “Yabba dabba doo.”  (Laughter.)   
  
     Mr. Prime Minister, we are so grateful for your commitment to our
alliance.  And I will say as a proud daughter of California, I grew up
surrounded by Japanese American culture and history — starting, of
course, with learning about the Japanese emissaries who arrived in San
Francisco in the 19th century, the first place that they visited in
America, and, over the years, celebrating that history, be it in San
Francisco’s Japantown in the Peace Plaza or in the Presidio, where in
1951, the Security Treaty was signed.   
  
     And in my elected career, as District Attorney of San Francisco,
Attorney General of California, and a United States Senator, one of my
dearest friends and advisors was Secretary Norm Mineta.   
  
     And as you may know, Mr. Prime Minister, because of Norm’s Japanese
ancestry, he was forced into incarceration by the United States during
World War Two, yet ultimately became one of the greatest statesmen of
America.  And he fought throughout his career, understanding the
importance of balancing and prioritizing both national security and what
we must do in terms of civil rights.   
  
     And he showed us that from great pain can come great purpose and
progress.  And in honor of your visit, we pay tribute to him with the
establishment of the Mineta Ambassadors Program to increase student
exchanges.   
  
     Mr. Prime Minister, I am incredibly proud of the purpose we share
and the progress our two nations have made.  And as Vice President, it
has been one of my great honors to help further to strengthen those
ties.   
  
     You and I, as Secretary Blinken mentioned, first met in September
of 2022 when I traveled to Tokyo to represent the United States at the
funeral of Prime Minister Abe.  Prime Minister Abe was the author, of
course, of the principle of a free and open Indo-Pacific.  And he
invested in the U.S.-Japan alliance and set Japan on a course of global
leadership.   
  
     Mr. Prime Minister, under your leadership, Japan’s global role has
grown immensely and even further, and the United States and the Japan
alliance is now stronger than ever.   
  
     During my trip to Japan, I flew south across the Tokyo Bay to a
joint naval base where Japanese and American sailors train and serve
side by side.  From the flight deck of the USS Howard, I had the honor
of addressing hundreds of American sailors in dress whites, from which I
explained the United States is a proud Indo-Pacific power, that the
U.S.-Japan alliance is the cornerstone of peace and stability in the
region, and America’s commitment to Japan’s defense is ironclad.   
  
     And today, I will add the bonds between our nations and people are
also ironclad.  Under your leadership, Japan has been an extraordinary
partner to the United States.  In addition to Tokyo, you and I have met
in Bangkok and Jakarta and here in Washington at the Vice President’s
Residence — each visit building upon our contributions to global
security and global prosperity, from maintaining peace and stability in
the Taiwan Strait to trilateral cooperation with South Korea to the
defense of rules and norms in the South China Sea, a dialogue which we
will continue later today with President Biden and President Marcos.   
  
     We have worked together to advance investment research development
for our semiconductors, resulting in strong supply chains and a strong
American manufacturing industry.  And building on our first conversation
18 months ago, yesterday we announced that a Japanese astronaut will be
the first international astronaut to the moon as part of our
collaboration under the Artemis program.  (Applause.)  Yes.  
  
     Ultimately, I believe the U.S.-Japan alliance is a source of great
strength for the United States militarily, economically, and
culturally.  And it is a force for good in the world.   
  
     So, I will conclude where I began: my home state of California and
Japan.  In 1964, as we know, while you were living in New York, as the
Secretary just referenced, my beloved San Francisco Giants — (laughter)
— called up a pitcher from the minor leagues.  And in September of that
year, that player debuted at Shea Stadium in a Giants game versus the
Mets, just a few miles from your school in Queens.   
  
     At that moment, Mashi Murakami made history as the first Japanese
player to play a Major League Baseball game in America.  And I’m told he
quickly instilled in you a love for baseball.  
  
     So, I will raise a glass to my beloved San Francisco Giants —
(laughter) — and your Hiroshima Toyo Carp — (laughter and applause) —
and all the enduring bonds between our nations.  Thank you.  
  
     (Vice President Harris offers a toast.)   
  
     Thank you.  (Applause.)  
  
     And now I present the Prime Minister.  
  
     PRIME MINISTER KISHIDA:  Thank you.  (Applause.)  
  
     (As interpreted.)  The Honorable Kamala Harris, Vice President;
Second Gentleman, Mr. Emhoff; Secretary Blinken, Secretary of State;
Cabinet Secretary Ryan; distinguished guests, thank you for hosting this
luncheon.   
  
     The script my staff drafted for this luncheon speech starts with
the sentence, “Yesterday, I had a fruitful discussion with President
Biden.”  Quote/unquote “fruitful discussion” is a cliché diplomats like
to use.  
  
     When I was Foreign Minister, oh, did I hear that phrase over and
over again until I almost got tired of it.  I also know that when a
diplomat says, “Hmm, that’s interesting,” more likely than not, that
person is thinking, “How boring.”  
  
     But there’s one thing I need to make clear.  Yesterday, President
Biden and I literally had a truly fruitful discussion.  And I say
“literally.”  (Applause.)  
  
     The President and I reaffirmed the strength of the Japan-U.S.
alliance.  I will continue to work closely with the President to
actively contribute to peace, stability, and prosperity of the world we
live in.  
  
     The success of the summit would not have been possible without the
hard work by the Honorable Vice President, Secretary Blinken, and the
collection of competent people on your team to whom we must thank with a
great round of applause.  (Applause.)  
  
     Let me quote a phrase in the Old Testament, Proverbs 27.  (In
English.)  “Iron sharpens iron, so — so one person sharpens another.”   
  
     (As interpreted.)  “Iron sharpens iron, so one person sharpens
another.”  Ask an ex- — expert what this means, and you will be
listening to a lecture until sunset.   
  
     I interpret this phrase to mean that when people with diverse
values and ideas compete against and sharpen each other, something
better is created.   
  
     That, indeed, is the force behind diversity — America’s strength
that I encountered in New York in my childhood days — and is the power
of Team Biden, I believe.   
  
     As I look back, when I was little living in New York, I feel that
the philosophy and the words delivered vigorously by President Kennedy
in his Inaugural Address most resonated among other grown-ups back
then.  “We shall pay any price, bear any burden, meet any hardship,
support any friend, oppose any foe to assure the survival and success of
liberty.”  This is a passage from the Inaugural Address.   
  
     Because of this liberty, we are able to leverage diversity as the
engine to drive ourselves forward.  Indeed, only because both Japan and
the U.S. enjoy the liberty and are open and frank with each other are
people successful in broad and diverse areas.   
  
     Just like yourselves here today, we’re able to overcome differences
in opinions or positions.  We’re able to deepen mutual understanding and
have produced the enduring power to advance the Japan-U.S. relationship
forward.  
  
     Let us continue to do so as we have done so far.  But for the
moment, just let us enjoy the lunch.  
  
     The unwavering Japan-U.S. relationship of today is all due to your
passion and contribution.   
  
     Please allow me to take this opportunity to thank you all once
again.  May I conclude my greetings by praying for the continued success
of you all and for the further deepening of the Japan-U.S.
relationship.  May I also raise a glass with you all.  
  
     Together, with myself, for the U.S.-Japan relationship and for a
bright future of a relationship and for each and every one of you,
please do continue your success and prosperity.  
  
     (Prime Minister Kishida offers a toast.)  (Applause.)   
  
END                1:08 P.M. EDT

\# \# \#
