---
date: '2024-04-08'
modified_time: 2024-04-07 19:40:34-04:00
published_time: 2024-04-08 05:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/04/08/president-joe-biden-outlines-new-plans-to-deliver-student-debt-relief-to-over-30-million-americans-under-the-biden-harris-administration/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President Joe\_Biden Outlines New Plans to Deliver Student Debt Relief to\
  \ Over 30 Million Americans Under the Biden-\u2060Harris Administration"
---
 
Today, Biden-Harris Administration leaders will fan out across the
country as President Biden announces his Administration’s new plans to
cancel student debt for tens of millions of Americans**. The plans, if
implemented, would provide debt relief to over 30 million Americans when
combined with actions the Biden-Harris Administration has already taken
to cancel student debt over the past three years.** While Republican
elected officials try every which way to block millions of their own
constituents from receiving student debt cancellation, President Biden
has vowed to use every tool available to cancel student debt for as many
borrowers as possible, as quickly as possible. Today, President Biden
will travel to Madison, Wisconsin to announce these new plans, while
Vice President Harris will travel to Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, Second
Gentleman Douglas Emhoff will travel to Phoenix, Arizona, and Secretary
of Education Miguel Cardona will travel to New York City to meet with
borrowers benefitting from the Administration’s student debt relief
actions.

President Biden from Day One has worked to fix the student loan system
and make sure higher education is a ticket to the middle class – not a
barrier to opportunity – because he knows that debt cancellation not
only benefits borrowers, it
[benefits](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/cea/written-materials/2024/04/08/the-economics-of-administration-action-on-student-debt/)
the entire economy.  

To date, the Biden-Harris Administration has approved $146 billion in
student debt relief for 4 million Americans through more than two dozen
executive actions. That includes fixing Public Service Loan Forgiveness
and Income-Driven Repayment plans, so borrowers finally get the relief
they are entitled to under the law. It also includes launching the most
affordable student loan repayment plan ever – the
[SAVE](http://www.studentaid.gov/save) plan – which cuts undergraduate
loan payments in half, ensures borrowers never see their balance grow
from unpaid interest, helps drop millions of borrowers’ monthly payments
down to $0, and cancels debt for low-balance borrowers faster. Nearly 8
million borrowers have enrolled in the SAVE plan, 4.5 million borrowers
have a monthly payment of $0 under the plan, and an additional 1 million
borrowers have a monthly payment of less than $100.  The
Biden-Administration has also secured the largest increase to Pell
Grants in a decade and has taken significant steps to hold colleges
accountable for leaving borrowers with mountains of debt and without
good job prospects.

Last June, in the wake of the Supreme Court’s decision blocking the
Biden-Harris Administration’s original student debt relief plan,
President Biden vowed to keep fighting to deliver student debt relief to
borrowers held back by the burden of student loan debt. Immediately
following that, the Department of Education began pursuing an
alternative path to debt relief through negotiated rulemaking under the
Higher Education Act.

Today’s announcement lays out the plans the Biden-Harris Administration
is pursuing through that effort. In total, these plans would fully
eliminate accrued interest for 23 million borrowers, would cancel the
full amount of student debt for over 4 million borrowers, and provide
more than 10 million borrowers with at least $5,000 in debt relief or
more.

**Canceling runaway interest for millions of borrowers**

More than 25 million borrowers owe more than they originally borrowed,
including many who have made years of payments, due to the interest
rates on Federal student loans. President Biden will announce plans
that, if finalized as proposed, would cancel up to $20,000 of the amount
a borrower’s balance has grown due to unpaid interest on their loans
after entering repayment, regardless of their income. Low and
middle-income borrowers enrolled in the SAVE plan or any other
income-driven repayment (IDR) plan would be eligible for the entire
amount their balance has grown since entering repayment to be canceled
under the Administration’s plans. This group of borrowers includes
single borrowers who earn $120,000 or less and married borrowers who
earn $240,000 or less. No application will be needed for borrowers to
receive this relief if the plan is implemented as proposed.

Millions of the borrowers who could be helped by these plans have
continued to see their balances grow because of accrued interest,
despite making their monthly payments.  Many have also had this unpaid
interest capitalized, meaning it is added to their principal balance and
borrowers are now paying interest on that higher amount. The
Administration’s plan would forgive interest balances built up to date
for 25 million borrowers, with 23 million likely to have all of their
balance growth forgiven.   

This plan builds off the actions the Biden-Harris Administration has
already taken to prevent the negative effects of excessive interest
accrual on student loans going forward by eliminating all interest
capitalization not required by law. The SAVE Plan does not charge unpaid
interest for borrowers who make their monthly payments, and has canceled
interest for at least 4.5 million borrowers to date.

**Automatically canceling debt for borrowers eligible for loan
forgiveness under SAVE, PSLF, closed school discharge, or other
forgiveness programs but not enrolled**

Too many borrowers eligible for relief – including immediate
cancellation –have not been able to overcome paperwork requirements, bad
advice, or other obstacles. Since its first days in office, the
Biden-Harris Administration has worked to get borrowers the relief to
which they are entitled.

Today, the Administration is proposing to automatically cancel debt for
borrowers otherwise eligible for relief through the SAVE plan, Public
Service Loan Forgiveness, or other forgiveness opportunities like closed
school loan discharges but who have not successfully applied for that
assistance.

Under SAVE, borrowers who originally took out $12,000 or less in loans
and have been in repayment for 10 years are eligible to get their
remaining debt canceled. For every additional $1,000 in loans they took
out (up to $21,000 total for undergraduate loans and $26,000 total for
graduate loans), a borrower is eligible for relief after an additional
year of repayment. For example, if a borrower took out $13,000 in loans,
they would be eligible for debt cancellation after 11 years in
repayment.

Under Public Service Loan Forgiveness, borrowers in public service for
10 years who have made 120 months of qualifying payments can get their
remaining student debt canceled.

The Administration’s plans would allow the Department of Education to
use data it has on hand to identify borrowers otherwise eligible for
this type of relief without requiring them to apply for these programs.
The Administration expects this action would cancel debt for around 2
million borrowers across the country.  

**Canceling student debt for borrowers who entered repayment over 20
years ago**

More than 2.5 million borrowers have had their share of student loans
for two decades or longer and still carry debt from long-ago loans. The
Biden-Harris Administration has already cancelled $45.6 billion in
student debt so far for nearly 1 million borrowers who have been in
repayment for at least 20 years, but never got the relief they were
entitled to because of administrative problems with income-driven
repayment plans. The Administration’s new proposals, if finalized as
proposed, would cancel student debt for borrowers who first entered
repayment 20 or more years ago. Borrowers with only undergraduate debt
would qualify for forgiveness if they first entered repayment 20 years
ago (on or before July 1, 2005), and borrowers with any graduate school
debt would qualify if they first entered repayment 25 or more years ago
(on or before July 1, 2000). Both Direct Loans and Direct Consolidation
Loans that repay only undergraduate study or graduate study for 20 or 25
years respectively are eligible for relief in this proposal.  Borrowers
would not need to be on an income-driven repayment plan to qualify.

**Canceling student debt for borrowers who enrolled in
low-financial-value programs**

One of the Biden-Harris Administration’s top priorities when it comes to
higher education is holding colleges accountable when they leave
students with mountains of debt and without good job prospects. To this
end, the Department has taken significant steps to crack down on
colleges that provide low-value programs to borrowers, when they cheat
students and families, and when they close unexpectedly – leaving
borrowers and taxpayers to foot the bill.

Today, President Biden is announcing his Administration’s plans that, if
finalized as proposed, would cancel student debt for loans associated
with institutions or programs that lost their eligibility to participate
in the Federal student aid program or were denied recertification
because they cheated or took advantage of students. Further, borrowers
who attended institutions or programs that closed and failed to provide
sufficient value— for example that leave graduates with unaffordable
loan payments or earnings no better than what someone with a high school
diploma earns— would be eligible for relief under this proposal.

**Canceling student debt for borrowers experiencing hardship paying back
their loans**

President Biden and his Administration recognize that the current
student loan system and repayment programs don’t reach all borrowers,
and for many Americans student loans continue to be a barrier for them
participating in the economy, accessing economic mobility, or pursuing
their dreams. The Administration’s plan for student debt relief will
also include a plan that would cancel student debt for borrowers
experiencing hardship in their daily lives that prevents them from fully
paying back their loans now or in the future.

This plan could provide relief to millions of borrowers who experience
hardship—such as borrowers who are at high risk of defaulting on their
student loans, who could be eligible for automatic relief, or families
who are burdened with other expenses like medical debt or child care who
can apply for relief in the future.

**Providing relief to millions of borrowers this year**

The Biden-Harris Administration plans to release proposed rules on these
plans over the coming months. If these plans are finalized as proposed,
this fall the Administration would begin canceling up to $20,000 in
interest for millions of borrowers and full loan forgiveness for
millions more.    

**Building off unparalleled record canceling student debt under
President Biden**

Today’s announcements follow historic actions the President and his
Administration have already taken to approve student debt cancellation
for nearly 4 million Americans and make student loan payments easier for
millions more through the SAVE plan. These actions have benefited
borrowers from all 50 states and U.S. territories, borrowers from
different walks of life, and borrowers of all ages. To date:

-   **The Administration has canceled over $62.5 billion in student debt
    for 871,000 public service workers, including teachers,
    firefighters, nurses, and more.** Prior to the Biden Administration,
    only 7,000 people in total had received debt forgiveness through
    Public Service Loan Forgiveness in the over 15 years since the
    program was put in place. The Biden Administration implemented fixes
    to make sure public service workers received the relief they are
    entitled to under the law, helping nearly 900,000 public service
    workers receive relief to date.

<!-- -->

-   **The Administration has approved $45.6 billion in debt cancellation
    for nearly 1 million borrowers through fixes to income-driven
    repayment.** For too long, as a result of administrative failures
    and loan servicer errors, borrowers never got credit for being in
    repayment. The Biden-Harris Administration fixed that, and has
    approved debt cancellation for over 930,000 borrowers who have been
    in repayment for over 20 years.

<!-- -->

-   **The Administration has approved $22.5 billion in debt cancellation
    for borrowers cheated by their schools, who saw their schools
    abruptly close, or who were covered by related court settlements.**
    The Administration has approved borrower defense and closed school
    discharges to provide debt cancellation for students that attended
    and were cheated by for-profit institutions like Corinthian Colleges
    and ITT Technical Institute. Less than $600 million in debt relief
    had been approved through borrower defense, closed school
    discharges, and related court settlements from all prior
    administrations combined, compared to the $22.5 billion approved
    under the Biden-Harris Administration alone.

<!-- -->

-   **The Administration has approved $14 billion in debt cancellation
    for over 548,000 borrowers with a total and permanent disability.**
    Through automatic matches with the Social Security Administration
    and other actions, the Biden-Harris Administration has approved debt
    cancellation for over half a million borrowers with total and
    permanent disabilities.

<!-- -->

-   **The Administration launched the SAVE plan – helping borrowers of
    all ages and walks of life manage their monthly payments, not
    charging interest for millions of borrowers, and setting $0 payments
    for 4.5 million borrowers every month.** To date, nearly 8 million
    borrowers have enrolled in SAVE, and 4.5 million of them have a
    monthly payment of $0, meaning they are also not accumulating
    interest that would otherwise be due. An additional million
    borrowers have a monthly payment of less than $100. Already the
    Administration has canceled debt for 153,000 borrowers enrolled in
    SAVE who took out low balances and have been in repayment for at
    least 10 years. And in July, the SAVE plan will cap monthly payments
    for undergraduate loans at 5% of income compared to the 10%
    threshold now – which will save many young borrowers money on their
    monthly payments. The Administration continues to encourage
    borrowers to sign up for the SAVE plan at studentaid.gov/SAVE to
    save money on their monthly payments and reach loan forgiveness
    faster.

<!-- -->

-   **The Administration secured the largest increase to Pell Grants in
    a decade, and has expanded eligibility for the maximum Pell Grant to
    1.7 million more Americans.** The President has taken historic steps
    to bring college in reach for more Americans, including low-income
    Americans. The President secured the largest increase to Pell Grants
    in a decade, expanded eligibility to Pell to 665,000 new students,
    and expanded eligibility for the maximum Pell Grant to 1.7 million
    more students. The President has also proposed making community
    college free so more Americans can access the promise of higher
    education.

President Biden will not stop fighting to cancel more student debt for
as many Americans as possible, and today’s announcements are a key step
forward in that effort.

\###
