---
date: '2024-04-29'
published_time: 2024-04-29 12:19:49-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/04/29/g7-leaders-statement-on-synthetic-drugs-threats/
tags: statements-releases
title: "G7 Leaders\u2019 Statement on Synthetic Drugs\_Threats"
---
 
We, the Leaders of the Group of Seven (G7), affirm our joint effort to
fight the production, distribution, and sale of illicit synthetic drugs,
and the criminal networks which traffic these drugs, which collectively
impact the health, security, and well-being of our citizens and of
people around the world. Such drugs, especially synthetic opioids such
as fentanyl, its analogues and nitazenes, represent an escalating and
critical public health emergency, resulting in hundreds of thousands of
deaths and devastating impacts on our communities and economies.

In order to collectively address this shared challenge, we are ready to
work together and drive international action to disrupt the production
and trafficking of illicit synthetic drugs, to dismantle the illicit
financing networks that support the drug traffickers, to identify
emerging drug trends, in order to prevent their expansion and to respond
to public health impacts.

In particular, we commit to take enforcement actions to:  i) dismantle
drug trafficking networks and the supporting illicit financing networks
using all available tools, including judicial and law enforcement
actions, and hold drug traffickers and their facilitators accountable;
ii) disrupt the illicit global supply chain of synthetic drugs as well
as of the precursor chemicals that are used to manufacture illicit
drugs, and iii) support international scheduling and regulation of
dangerous drugs and precursor chemicals.

We will redouble our efforts to:  i) raise awareness and knowledge,
especially among the youth and persons in vulnerable or marginalized
situations, of the adverse effects of drug use, particularly illicitly
manufactured and distributed synthetic drugs; ii) share information to
identify and quickly respond to new drug threats; iii) promote
evidence-based practices to improve the quality and availability of
substance use prevention and treatment services; and iv) provide
adequate training to support effective law enforcement, health-related,
and preventive care.

We confirm our intention to further enhance international cooperation in
counternarcotics.  In this regard, we welcome the crucial work of the UN
Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC), the International Narcotics Control
Board, the UN Commission on Narcotic Drugs (CND), the World Health
Organization and the Global Coalition to Address Synthetic Drug Threats.
We appreciate the long-standing work of Europol and Eurojust in
facilitating international police and judicial cooperation to fight
international drug trafficking. We welcome the European Ports Alliance
initiative to fight drug trafficking and organized crime and the
foundation of the new European Union Drugs Agency.

To show our steadfast commitment to fighting against this pernicious and
expanding threat, we will instruct relevant ministers to work on
strengthening international cooperation on this critical issue, raise
public awareness, facilitate non-discriminatory and voluntary access to
drug-related prevention and treatment services, and coordinate
enforcement efforts.

We encourage all countries concerned by the threat posed by illicitly
manufactured and distributed synthetic drugs to join the Global
Coalition to Address Synthetic Drug Threats and to undertake measures
arising from its workstreams and recommendations. We also call on all
countries to take appropriate action to counter this deadly scourge,
including justice and law enforcement action against illicit precursor
suppliers, transnational criminal organizations, and their enablers.

\###
