---
date: '2022-11-15'
modified_time: 2022-11-15 19:16:24-05:00
published_time: 2022-11-15 08:24:47-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/11/15/remarks-by-president-biden-at-the-partnership-for-global-infrastructure-and-investment-pgii-meeting/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at the Partnership for Global Infrastructure and\
  \ Investment (PGII)\_Meeting"
---
 
Apurva Kempinski  
Bali, Indonesia

4:50 P.M. CIT  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Well, good afternoon, everyone.  We haven’t heard enough
from everybody, so we’re going to go another five hours.  (Laughs.)  
  
I — I want to welcome you all.  The — I’m going to make some brief
opening comments and then yield to my friend, who’s been doing not much
today except doing this all day, and then to — as much as I’d like to go
to President von der Leyen, who I like better than anybody here.  But —
so we’re going to begin now.  
  
Folks, good afternoon.  I want to thank everyone for being here.  You’ve
done a tremendous job, by the way, for — really.  You’ve done a great
job.  (Applause.)   
  
And focusing on our efforts of the — of the G20 —   
  
(Checks microphone.)  Do I have this on?  Yes.   
  
— the G20 — toward restoring and recovering together and recovering
stronger.  As we were saying outside — we were having a photograph taken
— I’m convinced we’re going to come out of this crisis we’ve been
through, and the pandemic and other things, stronger than we went in. 
Every time we engage, we get better.   
  
And I — today we’re focused on investing together and investing stronger
than we have in the past.   
  
In June, I joined my fellow G7 leaders to officially launch the
Partnership for Global Infrastructure and Investment, with the
collective goal of mobilizing $600 billion in five years for quality,
sustainability, and innovative infrastructure, and investments in low-
and middle-income countries.   
  
As I’ve spoken with the — my Canadian friends, this is something that we
have an obligation to do, it seems to me, to deal with those nations
that are not the primary cause of many of our problems, but are now left
with a great deal of difficulty.   
  
I want to emphasize the word “investments” — investments that are driven
by local needs, in development with our partners, and delivering real
results to improve the lives of all of our people.   
  
Through the partnership, we’ve already launched an array of new projects
with countries across the G20 and beyond, collaborating in new ways on
climate, energy security, and digital connectivity, health
infrastructure, and gender equity and gender equality.   
  
And let me give you some examples of the work we’ve been doing.   
  
First, in climate and on energy security: As we accelerate our
investment and speed transition to clean energy future to meet the
climate crisis head on, we have to make sure that they benefit people
everywhere — everywhere — not just in the larger countries.  And that’s
why we’re proud to partner with Indonesia and Japan under both of our
colleagues — an unflagging leadership from both them — together with a
broad coalition of countries to create the Just Energy Transition
Partnership — not “just” like “soon,” but “to be just” energy
partnership.   
  
Also critical to this effort has been the work of the Glasgow Financial
Alliance for Net Zero, co-chaired by my friend and champion of global
climate efforts, Mike Bloomberg.  Together, we hope to mobili- — we’re
mobilizing $20 billion to support Indonesia’s efforts to reduce
emissions and expand renewable energy, and support workers in the most
affected — who are most affected by the transition away from coal, and
that can be difficult.   
  
That $20 billion from partner governments and some of the world’s
leading financial institutions will accelerate an ambitious energy
transition that has a global impact.   
  
We also plan to invest <s>$798 million</s> \[$698 million\] through the
new Millennium Challenge Corporation with Indonesia, which will build
climate-resilient transportation and support Indonesia’s development
goals.   
  
And around the world, we’re also investing in critical minerals, supply
chains, and technology needed for a clean energy transition.   
  
For example, in Honduras, the Export-Import Bank is financing one of the
largest-ever solar projects in the Americas.   
  
In Brazil, the U.S. International Development Finance Corporation has
invested $30 million in equity in TechMet Limited’s mining in nic- — for
— to mine nickel and cobalt, two of the minerals most needed to power
electric vehicles and other clean energy technologies.  
  
Together, these investments are going to create jobs in the communities
where this mining takes place, and they support and help curb climate
change — end global climate change.   
  
Next, we’re investing in digital connectivity.  As a matter of fact,
when I was elected President, we invested in an infrastructure project
at home because we found out — we focused on this, and we found out a
significant portion of the people in my country, as — as wealthy as
we’ve been, are — did not have access to — to the Internet.  So we’ve —
we’re — we came up with a billion 200 hundred million dollars in
infrastructure to make sure every single community — rural communities
and others.  Well, that’s the case all around the world.   
  
And so we’re — this digital connectivity, we’re teaming up with a range
of partners to ensure people have access to the Internet — affordable
access to the Internet — and other technologies.  We qui- — these
technologies are required to participate in today’s economies.  
  
And — for example, we’re working together with Japan and Australia to
upgrade networks in Papua New Guinea and across the Pacific, improving
security, performance, and access to digital services.  
  
And through the United States’ Digital <s>Investment</s> \[Invest\]
blended finance program, we are working with Kenya partner CSquared to
establish a nationwide fiber network in Liberia that’s going to help
connect 1 million Liberians to the web.  
  
And the next is health infrastructure.  We’ve seen over the last few
years, strengthening health security must be — must be a priority for
all of us.  We just went through a long discussion on that.   
  
That’s why we’re continuing to support vaccine manufacturing in Africa
and Asia and investing $15 million through the U.S. International
Development Finance Corporation in India’s health infrastructure, as
just a few examples.  
  
And finally, gender equity and gender equality.  When we invest in equal
opportunity for women, we can deliver greater prosperity for everyone —
for everyone.  
  
And so, we’re working with the G7 nations and the World Bank to launch
the Invest in Childcare Initiative to help families get children they
need — get the childcare they need, and help women get the opportunities
they deserve to be able to be in the workforce.  
  
We’re already starting to see returns.  For example, the initiative has
funded a project in Somalia, and that will help nearly 300,000 women
across the country to build literacy and leadership skills.  
  
These are just some of the projects where our countries are stepping up
to deliver impact investments.   
  
And we’re at an inflection point.  Investments we make together today
will have far-reaching impacts on the world for generations to come.  If
we don’t make them, it will also have far-reaching impacts — if we don’t
make these investments.   
  
And so, creating real opportunity, greater equality, and a more secure,
healthy, and prosperous world is what we’re all about.  
  
Moving forward, we have to continue to invest together and invest
stronger.  And we welcome all who share this vision to join this
partnership.  
  
And I want to thank you.  And now I’d like to turn it over to a man we
haven’t heard from for the last few days — (laughs) — Widodo.  It’s all
yours, Joko.  
  
4:59 P.M. CIT
