---
date: '2022-11-07'
published_time: 2022-11-07 18:13:28-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/11/07/remarks-by-president-biden-to-the-democratic-national-committee-national-finance-committee/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden to the Democratic National Committee National\
  \ Finance\_Committee"
---
 
(Via Teleconference)

4:07 P.M. EST  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Jaime, thank you, pal.  You know, that introduction is a
little over the top for me, but I tell you what, it’s not for your
leadership.  
  
And, Chris, you’ve done a hell of a job, pal.  You have really done one
incredible job.  And thank you for leading in our finance effort.  And
the fact you had Virginia McGregor from Scranton with you, that — that
helped a little bit too.  Anyway.  (Laughs.)  
  
Look, I just went through the numbers.  Let me say (inaudible) as well —
I know you just said it — because I know how hard it is to raise a total
of $292 million this cycle.  I want you to know how grateful I am, how
much it matters to everyone, how much it matters to our chances.  And I
want you to know that, you know, you helped get me and Kamala elected in
2020, and you raised a lot of money for us as well, but you helped
generate support for our agenda during the last almost two years.

You kept us going.  You helped — you helped generate so much.  We got
some really big things done.  And some of the most consequential things
ever accomplished by the narrowest of margins, the 50-50 Senate.  I told
Kamala, every time she votes, she wins.  And she does.  
  
And so we have a shot at keeping the Senate and increasing it.  And I’m
optimistic about the House as well.  
  
You know, you guys represent everything that’s good about our party, the
reason why we got into politics in the first place.  We got involved in
politics first place to help people.  We helped them get through the
pandemic, helped them deal with the crises they all face, helped them
with their healthcare, helped them across the board to take on powerful
special interests, particularly Pharma.  
  
You know, and we — (laughs) — I’ve been doing this for a long time.  We
finally beat Pharma because of your help.  
  
You know, we take on powerful special interests working to give the
middle class just a shot, just an even chance.  As my dad used to say,
“I don’t expect the government to solve my problem, but I ex- — I just
expect them to understand my problem.”

So, what — here’s what we did.  We went out there, we took on those
interests, we gave the middle class a fighting chance, we got a lot more
to do — protect the climate and American jobs and ingenuity.  
  
We passed the biggest climate bill ever, ever in American history —
almost $400 billion.  
  
It matters.  It matters.  It’s just beginning to take hold.  We did
everything from the — anyway — we — I won’t go into a whole everything
we got done.  But we also — most importantly, I think — fought to
protect the fundamental rights and freedoms that bring people into the
political process and make sure this democracy delivers.  
  
That’s what being a Democrat is all about.  It’s not about power for
power’s sake; it’s about gaining power to work for people who need a
little bit of help, just a shot.  My dad used to say, “Just a shot. 
Just a shot.  Just a little bit of breathing room.”  And that’s what
Democrats are all about.  Again, not power for powers sake, but power
for the good of the country.  
  
And, you know, I know it’s not easy — move this up.  I know it’s not
easy.  We’re up against some of the darkest forces we’ve ever seen in
our history.  
  
These MAGA Republicans are a different breed of cat.  This is not your
father’s Republican Party.  It’s a different deal.  And that’s what you
— that’s why what you did is so important because you are — we’re in
this election when history suggests we shouldn’t be; we should be being
blown away.  
  
With your support, we’ve been able to get voters registered, get them to
vote early, get them fully engaged, get them excited, and making them
understand that this matters.  It matters so much.  
  
We’ve got one more night to do everything we can to win — another,
probably, 30 hours between the last poll clo- — when the last poll will
close.  So let’s go win this thing.  
  
And no matter what happens tomorrow, we need you in the path ahead.  We
really do.  We’re just getting started.  We’re just getting started. 
And we have so much more we can do and to be proud of.  
  
So, once again, thank you, thank you, thank you.  You know, you’re an
incredible group of people.  And the way you’ve gone out there and never
let a moment go by without making our case is just incredible.  
  
So I want to thank you again.  God bless you all.  And may God protect
our troops.  
  
And, by the way, you heard me say it a thousand times.  As my Grandpop
Finnegan used to say when I walked out the door, “Joey, keep the
faith.”  And my grandmother would yell, “No, Joey, spread it.”  
  
You’re spreading the faith.  It really matters to our democracy.  The
rest of the world is looking to us as well — not just folks at home, the
rest of the world.  And you’re allowing us to do it.  
  
Thank you, thank you, thank you.  
  
4:11 P.M. EST
