---
date: '2022-11-15'
published_time: 2022-11-15 22:29:54-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/11/15/remarks-by-president-biden-on-the-explosion-and-loss-of-life-in-eastern-poland/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on the Explosion and Loss of Life in Eastern\_\
  Poland"
---
 
Grand Hyatt Hotel  
Bali, Indonesia

9:53 A.M. CIT

THE PRESIDENT: Thanks for being here. I — as you saw, I just met with
the leaders of NATO and the G7 and — to talk about the latest events in
Europe, and I briefed them on my discussions with President Duda of
Poland, as well as NATO Secretary General Stoltenberg. And we agreed to
support Poland’s investigation into the explosion in rural Poland, near
the Ukrainian border. And I’m going to make sure we figure out exactly
what happened.

Our empathy — sympathy goes out to — apparently, two people were killed.

And then we’re going to collectively determine our next step as we
investigate and proceed. There was total unanimity among the folks at
the table.

And we also discussed the latest series of Russian missile attacks,
which are continuing the brutality and inhumanity that they’ve
demonstrated throughout this war against Ukrainian cities and civilian
infrastructures. And they’ve been totally unconscionable, what they’re
doing. Totally unconscionable.

And the moment when the world came together at the G20 to urge
de-escalation, Russia continues to — has chosen to escalate in Ukraine,
while we’re meeting. I mean, there were scores and scores of attack —
missile attacks into western Ukraine.

We support Ukraine fully in this moment, and we have — we have since the
start of this conflict. And we’re going to continue to do whatever it
takes to give them the capacity to defend themselves.

Q Mr. President, is it too early to say whether this missile was fired
from Russia?

THE PRESIDENT: There is preliminary information that contests that. I
don’t want to say that until we completely investigate. But it is — I —
it’s unlikely, in the minds of the trajectory, that it was fired from
Russia. But we’ll see. We’ll see.

Q Mr. President, has Poland suggested invoking Article 4 or 5 from NATO,
sir?

THE PRESIDENT: The consensus is we’re going to probably have a meeting
of the — of the — of the ambassadors. So that’s — it looks like we’re
going to go do next.

Thank you.

9:56 A.M. CIT
