---
date: '2022-11-07'
modified_time: 2022-11-07 18:35:51-05:00
published_time: 2022-11-07 18:35:50-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/11/07/remarks-by-president-biden-to-democratic-state-party-leaders/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden to Democratic State Party\_Leaders"
---
 
(Via Teleconference)

3:46 P.M. EST

THE PRESIDENT:  All right.  Well, thank you very much, Jaime, for that
introduction and for your leadership at the DNC. 

Look, to all of you, thank you for leading our state parties.  I’ve been
all over the country as well.  And I tell you what, your heart and soul
have been put into this effort, and you can feel it.  You can really
feel it.

I — I just — I just feel optimistic.  I don’t want to take too much of
your time, but — we still got a lot of work to do to get out that vote. 
But no matter what happens tomorrow, I want to thank you and let you
know how grateful I am to you. 

You helped get me and Kamala elected in 2020, and you’re going to get a
Dem- — we’re going to surprise the living devil out of people because of
all the work you’ve done.

You’ve helped generate support for our agenda for the past 20 months and
some of the most consequential things we’ve ever accomplished with the
narrowest of margins.  I used to — I’d kid with Kamala, every time she
voted, we win.  We have 50-50 in the Senate.  So — and we won a lot.

We represent — you represent everything about our party and the reason
why I got into politics in the first place: to get us through the
pandemic; to take the powerful — take on the powerful special interests;
and give working people and the middle class a chance.

We finally took on Big Pharma and beat them.  I’ve been fighting for
that for a long time.  To protect climate with American jobs and
ingenuity, and to protect the fundamental rights and freedoms.

Nobody, even — even our mainstream Republicans are no longer talking
about “Is there a climate crisis?”  They’ve seen what’s happened just in
the last 6, 8, 10 months around the country.

And, look, you also work like the devil to protect the climate but,
beyond that, American jobs and American ingenuity, protect the
fundamental rights and freedoms we have as Americans, which are very
much in jeopardy if these MAGA Republicans take over.

You’re bringing people into the political process, making sure that
democracy delivers.

That’s what a Democrat is all about — not the power for power’s sake,
but the power to do good for the country.  That sounds self-serving
about us, but it’s true.  The power to do good for the country.

As I say, the super wealthy don’t need us, need — but the — but working
folks need us, serious people who are wor- — doing God’s work out there
and need us.

And what you’ve done with this midterm cycle, I think, is literally
incredible — getting voters registered, getting the early vote out,
getting them fully engaged, and it matters.  It matters.

We’ve got one of the mo- — you know, one more night, one more night —
probably another 30 hours nationwide — between now and where we are, you
know, until the last vote is co- –cast.  But, you know, one more night
to do everything we can to win and to keep it going.

Look, if we’re able to hold on, we’re going to be in incredible shape. 
Imagine what we can do in the second term if we gain control — and we
maintain control.

So, I know that sounds like a very high expectation.  But I — I think —
anyway — (laughs) — I’m optimistic.  And I remind you — want to remind
you to remind your teams: With so much at stake for our nation, don’t
leave a thing that’s — put it all out there.  Go full bore until the
last poll closes.  Make that extra call.  Not a joke.  Knock on that
extra door. 

Most of all, keep the faith.  Remind the folks that the power is in
their hands.  This is not a referendum; this is a choice.  And the more
people we get out to vote, we win.  We win.

So let’s go win.  Let’s get everybody we possibly can to vote.  Get them
to the polls.

I want to thank you.  And God bless you all for all you’ve done because
it truly matters.  And may God protect our troops.  Thank you.  Thank
you.  Thank you.

4:00 P.M. EST
