---
date: '2022-11-04'
published_time: 2022-11-04 18:49:53-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/11/04/remarks-by-president-biden-on-the-chips-and-science-act/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on the CHIPS and Science\_Act"
---
 
Viasat Corporate Headquarters  
Carlsbad, California

12:20 P.M. PDT

THE PRESIDENT:   Taryn, thank you very much for that introduction.  And
are the bad guys on the other side of the hedge?  I mean, what’s the
story?  (Laughter.)   
  
I see the persons who own this operation or set it up.  You guys are
allowed to come on this side, you know?  Anyway.  (Laughs.)   
  
Anyway, thank you all very much.  Thanks for that introduction and for
your service and the service of your husband.  I mean that sincerely.  
  
You know, the — I spent a fair amount of time — I guess I was in about
34, 35 times in Afghanistan and Iraq.  And you were at Camp Victory
where — my son was at Ca- — his hooch was only about a couple hundred
yards from that burn pit.  And he came home with Stage 4 — he went as
the healthiest guy in his division — not division, his regiment.  And
came home with Stage 4 glioblastoma.  
  
So, we — we owe — we owe a lot of folks.  
  
You know, a lot of you here are veterans of — of Iraq and Afghanistan. 
As I said, I visited both warzones as a senator and Vice President a
lot.  And some Godforsaken areas that you were assigned.   
  
And I watched you.  I observed your incredible courage firsthand.  Not a
joke.  That’s why you reinforced my belief that veterans are literally
the spine, the very sinew of what America is.  Not a joke.  One percent
of you — 1 percent of you serve and protect the other 99 percent.  We
all owe you.  
  
You know, I just met a few folks who work with Jill, my wife, the First
Lady.  She started an outfit called Joining Forces when she was the
<s>First</s> \[Second\] Lady to make sure that we took care of the
military families while the people were deployed.  
  
What people don’t realize is there’s a whole lot of folks who were
deployed in those two wars who were, in fact, not career military. 
National Guard.  We had a significant number of National Guard; almost
at one point, 50 percent of the fighters were National Guard.  
  
And — and, you know, there are a lot of empty dinner tables at night. 
At least when you’re on a base, you’re with other people who know what
you’re going through.  But most people had no idea that the National
Guard — a captain or a corporal — was, in fact, deployed.  
  
And she started this outfit, too, in the state of Delaware — my wife —
to say — convince people that they should reach out, because, you know,
the kid — the only kid in school who — whose dad doesn’t show up is the
kid whose dad is deployed, and no one knows it.   
  
And so we started — or she started a process where she got all the
schools — and not only in Delaware, but across the country — to begin to
say — point out the fact that their mom or dad was deployed.  It makes a
difference.  They’re not looking for it, but it makes a difference just
knowing people know.  Knowing people know.  
  
To all the veterans here and your families, as I said, we owe you.  I’ve
said many times before, we have many obligations as a country, but we
only have one truly sacred obligation, and it’s a sacred obligation:
It’s to prepare those we send to war and care for their families and
them when they come home.  That’s a sacred — we have a lot of
obligations, but that’s a truly sacred obligation that crosses party
lines, crosses ideology, and crosses everything.  
  
And, you know, and that’s what today is about.  
  
It’s good to be here in San Diego County with Mayor Gloria and the
County Chair Fletcher.   
  
And Congressman Scott Peters is a good friend and a great partner for my
administration, espel- — especially helping to reduce the cost of drugs
as well as taking care of vets.  Scott, your district is lucky to have
you.  
  
And I want to thank Congressman Mike Levin.  (Applause.)  Stand up,
Scott.  Stand up.    
  
Boy, this guy is the real deal.  (Laughs.)  He’s the real deal.  
  
And I want to ask Congressman Mike Levin — thank him for welcoming me to
his district today.  Mike, where are you?  There you go.  Mike —
(applause) — Mike and I have a lot in common.  We both married way above
our station.  (Laughter.)  
  
Mike’s a — Mike’s a hell of a guy, a champion for his constituents,
especially veterans who live here.  You’re not far from Pendleton —
across the street, figuratively speaking.   
  
You know, and that’s why, in my State of the Union Address, I said that
— I laid out what I called a Unity Agenda, an agenda that everybody
could agree on, on four big things.  I laid a lot more, but four big
things.   
  
One, dealing with the opioid crisis.  
  
Two, with the mental health crisis as a consequence of — how COVID has
inflicted on an awful lot of folks around the country.   
  
Deal with cancer, because we can beat cancer.  We’re now going to invest
in billions to deal with that.  
  
And supporting our veterans.  
  
And with the help of Mike, we also — he’s also Vice Chair of the House
Veterans Affairs Committee.  We signed 25 bipartisan bills that improve
life for our — care for our veterans and honor the service of those who
sacrificed so much.  
  
One of those bills is a bill that renames the VA medical center in San
Diego.  And it renames it Captain Jennifer Moreno, an Army nurse who
died while rendering aid under fire for an injured Army Ranger in
Afghanistan.  
  
A lot of you have been to Afghanistan.  I’ve been to every part of it. 
It’s a godforsaken place.  It’s a godforsaken place.   
  
When we — my helicopter went down, I was with the — the — the commander
as well as a couple snipers and — and a guy named Hagel, who was — later
became the Secretary of Defense and a guy named Kerry, the Secretary of
— of State.  
  
And he wanted to see — they wanted to see where bin Laden had escaped
through the mountains up in the upper Kunar Valley.  So the upper Kunar
Valley is nothing but rock — straight rocks.  There’s no vegetation at
all.  Some of you have been there.  
  
And well, our helicopter went down in a snowstorm.  And we found a place
to land that was an old path.  And it was lucky that we had such great
pilots.  And it wasn’t more than 10 feet beyond the width of the blades
of the helicopter we were in.  And there’s a picture of us standing in
front of the helicop- — in back of the helicopter, the — the wash of the
helicopter to stay warm.  You could hear F-15s fly over for proof of
life.  
  
And then we got a photograph later with our group — Delta Force chasing
the Taliban 2,000 feet above us.  They were carrying 60-pound packs. 
And I’m thinking to myself, God Almighty, what these guys do.   
  
And then when they couldn’t get down, they said we’re going to have to
get down across — just go up about a — the height of the building at a
grade about, I guess, I don’t know, 30 percent.  And we’re hu- — we’re
struggling like hell to get up this shale just to get over top.  But all
of us, we thought we were in pretty good shape, and I’m thinking to
myself, “Those guys are a couple thousand feet above us.”  
  
Anyway, I just think that we have the — I don’t “think,” I know we have
the finest military in the history of the world.  Not a joke.  In the
history of the world.  (Applause.)  
  
Both my fellows got me — helped me pass a thing called the bipartisan
PACT Act, the most significant law in decades to help millions of
veterans who were exposed during their military service to toxic
substances, like from burn pits the size of football fields — 8, 10 feet
deep.  Just incredible the place where they incinerated wa- — waste of
war: tires, poisonous chemicals, jet fuel, and so much more.  
  
And we found out, just like — after those folks — those firemen after
9/11 fighting that blaze, that toxic smoke caused a lot of deaths,
caused a lot of cancer, caused a lot of problems.  
  
So when they came home, many of the fittest and best-trained warriors
were not the same.  They came home with headaches, numbness, dizziness,
cancer.  
  
The PACT Act empowers the Department of Veterans Affairs to determine
more quickly if an ill — a veteran’s illness is related to toxic
exposure.  And for the families of the veterans who died of toxic
exposure, it means monthly stipends, life insurance, tuition payments
for the kids to get to school.  It’s the least we can do for them.  It’s
the least we can do for them.   
  
And folks — (applause) — and I know some of you are even seeing whether
or not you would qualify or whatever you have — anyway, I won’t go into
it.  But it’s tough stuff, but we have an obligation.   
  
And the way the American Rescue Plan that I signed, with Mike’s help,
invested $17 billion in the VA — Veterans Affairs — mental healthcare
and suicide prevention.  As a lot of the veterans here know, more vets
are dying on a daily bas- — monthly basis from suicide than in war. 
More are dying from <s>PSD</s> \[PTSD\] than at war.  It was averaging
21 a month.   
  
And guess what?  Even though — some of you who are vets know you have a
family member call and say, “He’s got to come in.  He needs help.  He
needs help.”  And they say, “We can’t do it right away.  You have to —
can you come in three days?”  That ends.  That ends.  They’ve got to be
seen immediately.  Because it’s literally a matter of life and death for
an awful lot of folks.  
  
Folks, the reason we’re here today is because of another law that I
signed with Mike’s help.  And it matters for our economy and national
security of our veterans.  It’s called the CHIPS and Science Act.  It’s
a groundbreaking law that’s going to build the future here in America. 
Here in America.  
  
I’m here at Viasat today because when I — when it comes to supporting
veterans and winning the economic competition of the 21st century, this
is the outfit you want to be with.  You’ve been wonderful on both
counts.  (Applause.)  Wonderful on both counts.  
  
It was started in 1986 by three friends — Mark, Steve, and another Mark
— in a garage.  You all do a hell of a lot in garages out here. 
(Laughter.)  You know what I mean?  That’s amazing.  I don’t know. 
Everything starts in a garage.  That’s why I wanted to move to San Diego
and buy a garage.  (Laughter.)    
  
But literally, they started — and now it’s a multi-billion-dollar
company with thousands of employees, and over 700 of those employees are
veterans.  
  
This company has been really reorganized nationally by — recognized by
the Department of Labor as a leading workforce place for veterans.  
  
And, look, they’re building satellites, communications networks,
powering everything from high-speed Internet for homes and businesses to
in-flight movies on commercial airlines and airplanes, to systems that
tracks cargo in real time — trucks, at sea, and ports.  And you also
equip the plane I fly on, Air Force One — (laughter and applause) — and
other Air Force aircraft.  
  
I often say — they say, “What’s the best part of being President?”  I
say, “The plane doesn’t leave until you get there.”  (Laughter.)  That’s
the best one.  But you’re in real trouble if you’re not on time.  
  
What you do here at this company really matters.  So much of it depends
on semiconductors — those tiny computer chips the size of a fingertip —
that power our everyday lives and power more and more of what we need:
smartphones, automobiles, washing machines, hospital equipment, you name
it.  
  
America invented these chips when we went to the Moon.  America invented
the computer chip.  And then, for — and we led the industry for
decades.  But then something happened: America stopped investing in
America.  We stopped investing in America.  American companies went
overseas for cheaper labor.  American manufacturing got hollowed out.   
  
And today — today we’re down to producing 30 percent of the world’s
chips — from 30 percent to only 10 percent, despite leading the world in
research and design of new chip technology.  
  
But we knew we had to do something to change that.  I knew we couldn’t
rely on the supply chain, because — whether it was the pandemic or other
— or political decisions made in China, Taiwan, and other places that
were not going to sell us the chips.   
  
It was having a profound impact on a lot of companies, including this
one, and our ability to make the chips.  
  
That’s why we worked so darn hard to write and pass the CHIPS and
Science Act to turn things around.  And it has had a — you know, and it
has, in a big way, turned things around.  
  
We learned — what I did, I contacted a number of the leading companies
in the world — in the United States, and said, “Are you more inclined to
invest in something you need if the federal government is making a
significant investment?”  It’s not — it’s not state planning.  “Are you
inclined to do that?”  And to — and to a company, they said, “Yes.”  
  
We learned that companies will follow if the federal government will
invest in industries that we know we need and we’re — we’re prepared to
help in.  That’s the message I got from a large number of CEOs of the
Fortune 500 companies.  
  
So, the CHIPS and Science Act invests $52 billion to supercharge our
efforts to make semiconductors here in America.  
  
It’s — it’s stimulated an enormous response, unlocking private sector
investments across the country more than ever before in such a short
time.  Hundreds of billions of dollars.   
  
I was just in Syracuse, New York, where I went to law school.  And the
company called Micron is investing $100 billion to manufacture chips,
the biggest investment of its kind ever in America, in American history
— $100 billion.  
  
Before that, I was in — down in — a little further down in the middle of
New York, in an outfit called IBM.  They’re investing in these chips for
— for serious — anyway, I won’t go through them all.  
  
But, you know, 10,000 jobs at that facility in Syracuse, including
construction.  And it generates 50,000 jobs across the community. 
Because all these people working at this place, they go to places to
eat, they get their haircut, they buy cars, they do all the things they
need to do.   
  
Intel Corporation.  Intel — we decided to invest, and I spent time with
the CEO down there outside of Columbus, Ohio, making a $20 billion
investment to start a semiconductor facility on a thousand acres, on
what I refer to as “a field of dreams” just outside of Columbus.  It’s
going to create thousands of jobs.  Construction jobs to start with.   
  
How many union guys here?  Guess what?  Everything I do is all union and
prevailing wage.  (Applause.)   Because it generates — it generates a
lot of activity as well.  You can go down the line: IBM, SK Corporation,
and other companies — even foreign companies — are investing tens of
billions of dollars making us once again the hub of advanced
manufacturing.  
  
And where — where is it written that America can’t be the leading —
leading — leading country in the world for manufacturing?  What the hell
happened to us?  But we’ll now.  
  
Just since I’ve been President, we’ve created 700,000 new manufacturing
jobs thanks to those two congressmen.  Not a joke.  (Applause.)  The
fastest rate — the fastest rate in 40 years.  
  
And here’s the big difference: Instead of us sending — sending jobs
overseas because the labor is cheaper, and buying the product at home
from there, we’re sending American products overseas, and they’re buying
them.  That’s why our trade deficit is so en- — we’re making enormous
progress.  We are once again supplying the world the things they need. 
That’s why the economy is changing.  
  
The focus on each of these investments is what Mike is really focused
on, and training workers, hiring veterans, jobs pays a prevailing wage,
union job, good-paying jobs that don’t require a college degree.  
  
Intel says their average pay for their — running their factories — and
they’re employing thou- — millio- — thousands of people — the average
salary where you don’t need a college degree for is $124,000. 
$124,000.  
  
And, look, and we saw it during the pandemic.  If factories that make
these chips shut down, the global economy comes to a halt, driving up
the cost for everyone and families.  As a matter of fact, one third of
the core inflation due to last year — in the last year — one third of it
was because of the price of automobiles.  Why?  They couldn’t get
computer chips.  They had to shut down their lines.  Fewer cars being
made.  Prices went up because they’re in short supply, because of
computer chips.  That was the reason.  Well, that’s all changed now.  
  
I know I’m — it’s like — standing here this great corporation is like
speaking — preaching to the choir.  Folks here know this more than
anybody else: We need these chips to build most everything that it makes
right here.  
  
Instead of relying on chips made overseas — it could be delayed because
of a pandemic or some global disruption — now they’re going to be able
to have those chips available on the spot.  It’s a game changer.   
  
But thanks to this law, this company hopes to significantly grow its
global business and hire more workers in the next five years.  
  
And here’s another thing: This is also a national security issue.  A
national security issue.  
  
Earlier this year, I went down to a Lockheed factory in Alabama, where
they make Javelin missiles.  Guess what?  We were having trouble — we
were having trouble supplying the Javelin missiles to Ukraine because
they didn’t have the chips.  They didn’t have the computer chips.  To
help defend themselves against Putin’s brutal and unprovoked war, we
were sending these guys these Javelins.  
  
We need semiconductors not only for those Javelins, but also for other
weapons systems that exist today as well as in the future.  
  
One of the reasons why Russia is having a hard time — I’m not going to
go into it; it’ll take too much time — having a hard time supplying
their military is we’ve been not ineffective in making sure they have
difficulty getting what they need to build theirs.  
  
The United States has to lead the world in the production of these
advanced chips.  This law is exactly that.  And the law is about science
as well.  
  
You know, decades ago, in the United States of America, we used to
invest in ourselves.  America invested 2 percent of its GDP — 2 percent
of its GDP in pure research and science.  
  
Well, over the years, we’ve walked away from that.  We invest less than
0.7 percent of our GDP in sci- — in research and development.  Those 2
percent was pure investment in research and development.  
  
We used to rank number one in the world in research and development. 
Now we rank number nine.  Number nine when I came to office.  
  
And China, a decade ago, was number eight.  Now they’re number two in
the world.  Number two in the world.  
  
Does anybody here think that the future doesn’t rest in major
breakthroughs in technology and science?  
  
And other countries are closing in fast.  Well, the CHIPS and Science
Act sets us on a path to move up again to boost research and
development, and funding back up closer to 1 percent quickly — the
fastest rate in any single year in 70 years.  
  
But there’s another law that we got that really matters, because of
these — both these guys helped me get done.  
  
We finally decided we’re going to move up from being ranked number 13 in
the world in infrastructure — the United States, 13 in the world — to
back to number one.   
  
Ask any business leader — and there are many of you in this audience —
what’s the one most important factor in considering where you’re going
to decide to invest and locate your factory?  Well, it’s whether you
have a means to transport products around the world quickly, safely, and
well.  It’s whether the employees have safe and thriving living — places
to live.  
  
With Mike’s help, I signed into law the Bipartisan Infrastructure Bill,
the most significant investment in our nation’s infrastructure since
Eisenhower’s Interstate Highway System, literally.  It’s a lot of
money.  (Applause.)  A trillion 200 billion dollars is a lot of money.  
  
I also want to thank Scott.  He was a prime mover as well.  
  
For example, I know a thing or two about rail corridors.  I know about
the Northeast Corridor.  I have a fi- — I have — the joke is — and in
the Senate — when I was in the Senate, they’d call me “Mr. Amtrak.”  I
commuted 250 miles a day for — -58 miles a day for 36 years because my
wife and daughter were killed when I first got elected, and I started
going home because I had the family to help take care of my kids, and
never stopped.   
  
So I know a lot about corridors.  I know a lot about their impact on
things — and the Northeast Corridor.   
  
Because of the billions for rail in this new law, because of Mike and
Scott’s leadership, we’re going to make sure the second busiest rail
corridor in America, connecting San Diego and Los Angeles, is going to
be open and running for a long time and quicker.  (Applause.)   
  
We have the money to get it done.  We have the knowledge to get it
done.  
  
Look, folks, I came here because it’s an example of the bri- — one of
the bright spots we’re seeing across the country, where America is
reasserting itself.  As simple as that.   
  
Ten million new jobs in 20 months.  This morning I learned that we added
another 261,000 jobs this month.  (Applause.)   
  
There were — and, by the way, the New York Times media reports is called
— they call the report the “Goldilocks” report.  I have a — I have my
shotgun waiting for the wolf.  (Laughter.)  
  
Look, unemployment now three — it went up two tenths of percent.  It’s
at 3.7 percent, among the lowest in 50 years.  
  
Unemployment among veterans is at historically low.  
  
Putin’s invasion of Ukraine sent gas prices soaring around the world. 
Because of actions we’ve taken dealing with the Petroleum Reserve and
other things, prices are coming down here at home.  They’re now down
$1.22 since their peak this summer.  
  
Folks, our economy continues to grow and add jobs, even as gas prices
continue to come down.  But we got a lot more to do.  
  
But we also know folks are still struggling with inflation.  It’s our
number-one priority.  That’s why, with Mike’s help and Scott’s help, I
signed the Inflation Reduction Act — (applause) — to bring down the cost
of everyday things that we talk about around the kitchen table.  
  
My dad used to say, “Everybody needs a little — just little breathing
room.”  I come from a family like many of you do, a mi- — a good family,
a middle-class family.  We weren’t poor.  My dad — we lived in a
three-bedroom, split-level home in a development with four kids and a
grandpop and thin walls for my grandparents and my parents.  But all
kidding aside — (laughter) — everything — everything that happened, you
know, was at the kitchen table.  
  
When the price of gas went up, we talked about it.  It was a problem. 
It was a decision.  
  
But it’s all — what are the bills people have to pay every month — a lot
of people?  Well, guess what?  Every month, a lot of people have
prescription bills they have to pay on a regular basis.  Every month,
they have healthcare premiums, energy costs — the cost of heating their
homes.  And how much — how much of that is critical to working- and
middle-class families?  What can you do about it?  
  
Well, I’m working like hell to deal with the energy prices. I’m going to
have a little, as they say, come-to-the-Lord talk with the oil companies
pretty soon.  
  
But here’s the deal.  Take prescription drugs: We pay the highest price
for prescription drugs of anywhere in the world — the same exact drug
made by the same exact company.  That drug sold in San Diego and that
drug sold in Paris, it’s considerably cheaper buying it in Paris.  Same
company, same drug, same everything.  
  
We decided — I’ve been trying to do it for a long time when I was a
senator and Vice President — to take on Big Pharma.  Been trying to do
for a long time.  But this time, we beat them.  (Applause.)  The law
gives Medicare the power now to negotiate lower prescription drug costs,
just like it’s given VA.  The only outfit that couldn’t negotiate prices
was Medicare.  
  
VA medi- — does that.  VA negotiates what they’ll pay for a certain
drug.   
  
We’re also capping seniors’ out-of-pocket costs for prescription drugs,
beginning January 1st, at a maximum of $2,000 a year.  Even if they’re
paying $10-, $12,000 for a cancer drug, they will not have to pay more
than $2,000 a year, period, for their drugs.  It’s a lifechanging event
for many seniors.  (Applause.)  
  
And, by the way, the other thing is: If Big Pharma continues to raise
the price of their products above the cost of inflation without making a
significant change in their product, guess what?  They’re now going to
write a check to Medicare to cover the difference between what they
charge and the price of inflation.  
  
Folks, you know — and, by the way, last year, they raised the price of
1,200 everyday drugs you all take — 1,200 particular drugs — faster than
any — faster than the rate of inflation, and faster than any time in
history.  Beginning in January, that stops.   
  
We’re capping the cost of insulin.  Many of you know people who are
dealing with insulin for diabetes.  They pay somewhere between $400 and
$700 a month.  You know how much it costs to make it?  The guy — I spoke
to the guy who invented it — the insulin.  He said he didn’t patent it
because he wanted it available for everybody.  It costs $10.  T-E-N. 
Ten.  Counting packaging, 15 bucks.  So guess what?  We capped the price
at $35 instead of $400, because people are going to be able to take
those drugs.  (Applause.)     
  
And I’ll bet you know somebody — I was in Virginia doing a townhall.  A
woman stood up and she started — almost started to cry.  She said, “I
have two children.  Both have Type 1 diabetes.  We have to split the
insulin.  I can’t afford it.  I can’t afford the insulin.”  We’re
capping the cost of insulin, as I said, for seniors on Medicare at 35
bucks a month to deal with their diabetes instead of that $400 like so
many of them are now paying.   
  
In addition, we’re making the biggest investment ever to deal with the
climate crisis.  I know you all know there’s no climate problem. 
(Laughter.)  I know you know that.  That’s why I spent a lot of time in
Arizona, New Mexico, and California, all through — flew up and down this
state with your governor and those wildfires.  I know they just
happen.   
  
Come on.  We finally got to the point where no one is denying that we
have a climate problem.  
  
But I was able to get not all I needed but $369 billion put in that
bill.  (Applause.)   
  
And we had — I think the guys who were with me — the congressmen were
with me when I had — I invited the CEOs of the auto companies to the
White House lawn, in the back — you know, behind the White House.  
  
And I talked about automobiles, and they talked about electric
vehicles.   
  
At the time, <s>Amy Barrett</s> \[Mary Barra\] was — Barra — Chairman
Barra of General Motors was suing the state of California because you
had a higher standard for emissions than the rest of the country, and
they said they couldn’t do that.  Well, she left that meeting and she
dropped the suit.  Called me up and said they’re going to go all
electric by <s>3035</s> \[2035\].  Every other company has signed up to
do the same thing.   
  
So we’re working with the auto industry to transition to an electric
vehicle future, providing tax credits to buy electric vehicles, as well
as — any IBEW guys here?  Well, guess what?  You guys are going to
install 50- — excuse me, 500,000 charging stations around the country. 
So it’s going to be — that’s like 500,000 gas stations.  Not a joke. 
Five hundred thousand.  Because people are going to say, “I’m not buying
a vehicle because it can only take me X number of miles.”  
  
And, by the way, we’re investing billions of dollars and many of you are
investing billions of dollars in battery technology.  We’re now changing
the nature of the life of a battery.  
  
Folks, it’s also now cheaper to generate electricity from wind and solar
than it is from coal and oil.  Literally cheaper.  Not a joke.   
  
I was just — and so we can accommodate that transition.  I was in
Massachusetts about a month ago on the site of the largest old coal
plant in America.  Guess what?  It cost them too much money.  They can’t
count.  No one is building new coal plants because they can’t rely on
it, even if they have all the coal guaranteed for the rest of their
existence of the plant.  So it’s going to become a wind generation.  
  
And all they’re doing is — it’s going to save them a hell of a lot of
money, and they’re using the same transmission line that transmitted the
coal-fired electric on.  We’re going to be shutting these plants down
all across America and having wind and solar.   
  
We’re also providing tax credits to help families buy energy-efficient
appliances, whether it’s your refrigerator or your coffee maker.  We’re
going to put solar panels on your homes, weatherize your home — things
that will save an average, the experts say, a minimum of $500 a year for
the average family.  
  
Look, we’re doing all of this while we reduce the federal deficit.  I
hear it from my friends on the other team that those “big spendin’
Democrats.”  Well, I inherited a gigantic deficit.  
  
This year alone, under our leadership, with the help of my colleagues in
the Congress, guess what?  We cut the federal deficit — cut the federal
deficit this one year by 1 trillion 400 billion dollars — more than any
time in American history.  Any time.  (Applause.)   
  
We cut the federal deficit in half — in half — while doing all this.   
  
And last year, we cut it by $350 billion.  
  
And we’re going to cut — reduce it further over the next decade by
another $250 billion.  Because, I hate to say this, but if you’re one of
those corporations paying zero tax, that’s over, man.  You’re paying 15
percent now.   
  
And look, a big part of that is because we’re making sure the biggest
corporations — and, by the way, I’m — I’m a pro-corporate guy.  I come
from the corporate capital of the world.  For all I know, you all are
incorporated in Delaware.  I don’t know.  Are you?  (Laughter.)   
  
More corporations are incorporated in Delaware than every other state in
the union combined.  And I got elected seven times, so I’m not
anti-corporation, but I am “everybody pay their fair share.” 
(Applause.)   
  
Look, the biggest corporations are going to have to pay a minimum 15
percent.  
  
Look, the bottom line is we’ve made a lot of progress over the last 20
months to build the economy from the bottom up and the middle out
instead of the trickle-down economics that failed us the last 40
years.   
  
And I — we just have to keep going, in my view — to bring down inflation
while we keep the market strong; to help investing in ourselves.  
  
As President, I will not accept the argument that says that our problem
is that too many Americans are finding good jobs.  My father will come
down from Heaven to strangle me.  (Laughter.)  Or that too many working
people finally have dignity in their working place.  Or that our
largest, most profitable corporations shouldn’t have to pay their fair
share in taxes.  
  
I’m going to continue to work for an economy built from the bottom up
and the middle out.  
  
Let me close with this.  I know it’s been a rough four or five years for
an awful lot of people in the country.   So many small businesses went
out of business.  So much has happened.  And many folks are still
struggling.  
  
But like I said, there are bright spots where America is reasserting
itself.  Look around at all of you and our nation’s veterans.  I’ve
never been more optimistic about our future.  The young people in this
country, from 18 to 30, they’re the best educated, least prejudiced, the
most engaged generation in the history of America.   
  
Look, our best days are ahead of us.  They’re not behind us.  We just
have to remember who in the hell we are.  We’re the United States of
America.  (Applause.)  There’s nothing — I mean it — there’s nothing
beyond our capacity — nothing beyond our capacity if we work together.  
  
We’re the only nation in the world that’s come out of every crisis
stronger than when we went in.  And we’re going to do it again.   
  
So, God bless you all.  And may God protect our troops.  Thank you,
thank you, thank you.  (Applause.)   
  
12:55 P.M. PDT
