---
date: '2022-11-21'
modified_time: 2022-11-21 19:47:58-05:00
published_time: 2022-11-21 19:47:57-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/11/21/remarks-by-president-biden-at-a-friendsgiving-dinner-with-service-members-and-military-families-cherry-point-nc/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at a Friendsgiving Dinner with Service Members\
  \ and Military Families | Cherry Point,\_NC"
---
 
Marine Corps Air Station  
Cherry Point, North Carolina

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much.  (Applause.) 

I imagine this has to be boring, boring, boring for these kids to stand
up here.  (Laughter.)  You’re allowed to do anything you want, including
go steal a pumpkin if you want.  Anything you want to do.

Folks, it’s an honor for Jill and I to be here.  You know, we — we’ve
had — the reason we came is the chef is not bad.  You know, we’ve had —
we’ve had a lot of meals with him in the past.  Thank you.  Thank you
for all you do.

You know, to be here with the — with the Marines and sailors of the 2nd
Marine Expeditionary Force is a great honor.  You know, I’ve gotten to
see you all in the mountains of — and I mean this sincerely — the
mountains of Bosnia.  I’ve seen you in Iraq.  I’ve seen you in
Afghanistan.  And you’re incredible. 

The American people have no idea the sacrifices you’re making.  One
percent — one percent of you represents 99 percent of the public. 
You’re all volunteers.  You all just show up.  And you’re always there
for — and we have a — I used to get in trouble for saying, when I was a
senator, America has a lot of responsibilities but only one sacred
responsibility.  And I mean this sincerely from the bottom of my heart. 
It is that — that is to equip those we send into harm’s way and care for
them and their families when they come home. 

Because as I said, you represent 1 percent of the population.  You
defend the rest of us.  You are the — you’re the backbone, the sinew,
the spine of the country.  And you really are. 

And so, I just want to came — we wanted to come and tell you how much we
appreciate all you’ve done. 

And you know, John Milton, the famous poet, said: They also stand — they
also serve who only stand and wait.  Your mothers, your fathers, your
husbands, your wives — many times, they’re not able to be with you —
like now, for many of you.  And they’re serving, too.

I remember when our son Beau was in Kosovo for six months as a U.S.
attorney, and then he volunteered to head to Iraq for a year. 

And every morning, I’d get up before — before — Jill, my wife, is a
teacher.  She’d get — she’s up earlier than me.  She’d be out of — out
of the house by seven o’clock.  And I’d walk into the kitchen, and she’d
be with her coffee, standing over — standing over the sink, saying a
prayer. Just saying a prayer every single day. 

Because your parents, when you’re deployed, they don’t know or spouses
don’t know for sure.  Every single day, they worry about you.  Every
single moment.  And so, we owe them, too.  We owe them a big debt of
gratitude.

And the other thing is, you know, one of the things that people don’t
understand and they — until they run into you, is you are literally, not
figuratively, the greatest fighting force, the best fighting force in
the history of the world.  That’s not hyperbole.  In the history of the
world.  It’s not a joke.  And you really are an incredible group of
women and men. 

And, again, I want to thank the spouses as well, because they put up
with an awful lot of your — because of your service.  And a lot of those
empty table- — I don’t know how many birthdays you’ve had there’s been
an empty chair back at your home, with your parents looking at that
chair, wondering are you all right, especially if you’re deployed.

So, anyway, thank you, thank you, thank you for all you’ve done.

By the way, I’m serving mashed potatoes, so come to my place.  I’m the —
all kidding aside, thank you for everything you’ve done.

And, you know, there’s — there’s a lot — a lot the rest of — I — I
travel the world a lot, because as — before this as Vice President,
before that as Chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee.  And no one
— no one in the world misunderstands your competence.  No one in the
world misunderstands that you are the finest fighting force in the
world.  That is not a joke.  That’s the God’s truth.

So, thank you, thank you, thank you.  And I hope you have a great
Thanksgiving and a good Christmas.  God bless you all.  Thank you.

Now, I’m not supposed to bless anybody.  I’m supposed to call the — the
chaplain up here.  Where’s the chaplain?  Is he around?

There you are, Chaplain.  Okay.  I was going to say your prayer for you,
but I’m going to give that up.

All right, you know, I — I — they got lucky.  I decided not to do what
you’re doing.  (Laughs.)  So, here you go.  It’s all yours.

CHAPLAIN MYHAND:  Thank you, sir.

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much.

6:19 P.M. EST
