---
date: '2022-11-01'
modified_time: 2022-11-02 09:16:35-04:00
published_time: 2022-11-01 23:30:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/11/01/closing-remarks-by-national-security-advisor-jake-sullivan-at-the-counter-ransomware-initiative-summit/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Closing Remarks by National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan at the Counter\
  \ Ransomware Initiative\_Summit"
---
 
Eisenhower Executive Office Building Room 350

AS DELIVERED

I know you guys have talked a lot, listed a lot, worked through a lot,
and I want to come on to some of the specifics that are at the heart of
the Counter Ransomware Initiative.  
  
But I actually wanted to close this out by taking a little bit of a step
back and sharing the thinking of the Biden Administration for why this
initiative and this issue is not just confined to cyberspace. It’s not
just confined to a particular challenge within cyber space, but really
is a hallmark of our national security approach as a whole.  
  
We released our National Security Strategy just a couple of weeks ago.
And it was a product that really drew from consultations with a lot of
countries seated around this table.  
  
And at its core, what the National Security Strategy reflects and
represents is that you cannot neatly divide between foreign policy and
domestic policy any longer in the approach to national security. That’s
just not the world that we live in anymore.  
  
So, we have built our national security approach on the foundational
integration of foreign policy and domestic policy. And that means
elevating our focus on the issues that spill out of those two
silos—whether it’s supply chains, or the energy transition, or tax
policy, or especially cybersecurity.  
  
From Day One, the Biden Administration has really put cybersecurity at
the top of our list—and Anne was kind enough to take the first-ever role
as Deputy National Security Advisor for cyber in a National Security
Council, in a White House, in history—because we wanted to build and
integrate an entire cyber component at a very senior level at the heart
of the National Security Council.  
  
And so this connects across everything that we do.  
  
And we’ve tried to drive a range of different lines of effort in the
cyber domain.  
  
First, focusing on cybersecurity and safety here at home.  
  
Last year, President Biden signed an Executive Order that requires new
baseline standards for software sold to the U.S. government. A lot of it
that is also used and bought by countries around the world. It’s an
effort that we hope will raise the game for software not just for our
country, but for all of your countries as well.    
  
And it was interesting when we came in and found that this simply was
absent—there was no standard upon which this software was built.  
  
Now we came to office of course just a couple of months after the Solar
Winds hack was brought to public attention and of course Solar Winds was
shot through every corner of the U.S. Government, as well as many of
your governments. And it was very bracing lesson for us to learn.  
  
We’ve also worked across our government to create landmark cybersecurity
standards in critical infrastructure sectors—from airports, to water
systems, to pipelines, to railroads.  
  
And, in fact, it was a ransomware incident last year—the Colonial
Pipeline attack—that really drove home the need for these standards.  
  
And as many of you know working it in your own systems, there’s a lot of
gnashing of teeth and a lot of blood on the floor working with critical
infrastructure sectors to get these standards not just written, but
actually implemented in a full way. And it requires a genuine level of
public-private partnership that is almost unique across the national
security enterprise to protect our countries from all manner of cyber
attacks, including ransomware attacks.  
  
And our work is by no means done, but we are going to go sector by
sector to ensure that we have standard cybersecurity practices for the
critical infrastructure owners in every domain of critical
infrastructure.  
  
Second, working with our partners—we focused on securing new
technologies.  
  
I know you all have talked about digital assets, addressing the way that
crypto crosses borders and fuels cyber actors, criminal cyber actors.  
  
We’re also in the final stages in consultation with some of you around
this table of creating a labeling program for the internet of things,
and particularly for IOT devices so that consumers that bring home those
devices know that their bringing home a secure device.  
  
This is something that some of you have pioneered, and we’re learning
lessons from that ourselves in trying to develop a similar, almost
Energy Star-like program for cybersecurity in the Internet of Things.  
  
And we want to make sure that what we put in place is compatible those
of you who will follow suit.     
  
Third, of course, and the last two days have been a good indication of
this, we’ve been focused on really strengthening collaboration with our
partners—doing this in partnership with other countries, because any one
country solving their cyber problem is not really getting after the root
of this problem, which is a network problem that affects all of us.  
  
So, we’ve been trying to build diverse and flexible coalitions that
tackle a transnational threat like cyber. And that too is a hallmark of
President Biden’s foreign policy across the board.  
  
We’ve shared information regarding cyber threats to protect critical
infrastructure across the entire globe on every continent with dozens of
countries.  
  
We’ve worked with countries to implement the norms of the UN-endorsed
framework for responsible behaviors in cyberspace.  
  
We’ve created the Virtual Cyber Incident Support Capability with our
NATO Allies to more effectively lend cyber resources and support in
moments of need.  
  
We’re driving the development of new cyber tools with our Quad
partners.  
  
And as, sort of the flagship in collaboration, we were very proud to
help along with the rest of you launch this Counter-Ransomware
Initiative last year, and to see how far it’s come in one year, and to
see the path ahead and how promising it looks.

\*\*\*  
As everyone here knows and as you all have reinforced in your comments
over the last couple of days, ransomware is a global challenge that
requires global cooperation to produce global solutions.  
  
And that’s why in fact this coalition is the largest in the world in
terms of a cybersecurity coalition. And the most comprehensive—bringing
together countries and companies from all regions of the globe to deter
and disrupt these ransomware attacks.

I want to particularly thank Australia, Singapore, the United Kingdom,
India, Lithuania, Spain, and Germany, the CRI Working Group leads who
have made sure that this collaboration is broadly shared, brings diverse
perspectives, and really creates a platform upon which the collaboration
of all of us going forward can be built. 

Having already had two exercises, with respect to building our
resilience, so CRI members across the world can bolster their ability to
coordinate during a potential cyber attack.  
  
You’ve also strengthened our defense—developing ways to disrupt
ransomware actors and countering their illicit financing, particularly
in the crypto-currency ecosystem.  
  
And collectively, you’ve deepened our collaboration— creating a new
platform to facilitate information sharing and build enduring
partnerships with the private sector.   
  
And as Anne has just described over the last two days you’ve done more.
Whether it is about combating the ability of ransomware actors to use
virtual assets, including through an investigators’ toolkit.  
  
Delivering justice ransomware actors and their enablers by standing up a
joint task force in the first quarter of next year as a due out from
this meeting.

Ensuring our national cyber infrastructure is not being used in
ransomware attacks by sharing information regarding malware and
techniques so that we can all collectively defend better.

And, of course, strengthening our diplomatic cooperation to deny safe
haven to ransomware actors.  And I want to especially thank Nigeria’s
agreement to co-lead this stream of work with our German colleagues for
the coming year.  
  
I was also pleased to see that you’ve integrated for the first time the
private sector and private companies from across the world into these
CRI conversations, because you know as well all know—sometimes to our
benefit, sometimes to our detriment, hopefully more and more to our
benefit—private firms and companies often have the key information
before we have it as governments—so we need to work together.  
  
And then finally, you all know even better than I do—and it’s obviously
not limited to ransomware or two cyber—but it is I think especially
acute in this area, we to continue to work overtime to break barriers
within each of our own governments—bringing together policy,
intelligence, finance, legal, law enforcement, and every other
conceivable kind of tool to combat ransomware.  
  
So let me just close by saying that over the last few days, we’ve seen
how this international, integrated, innovative approach can really drive
results. And I really just want to express the gratitude of President
Biden, my personal gratitude, our entire team here at the White House
between the National Security Council, the Office of the National Cyber
Director, our colleagues at the State Department and other agencies.  
  
We have a long way to go, but we’ve already come a long way and the
momentum we’ve built, you know to pick up where Nate left off—objects in
motion can stay in motion if we keep pushing them forward, and that’s
what I think collectively we should all do.  
  
So, thank you for giving me the opportunity to address you today. But
more importantly, thank you for bringing a spirit of collaboration and
deep substance, expertise, and wisdom to our collective effort. And I
think let’s just keep making the kind of progress we’ve made over the
course of the past year, and we will really get after this problem.
Thank you.

END
