---
date: '2022-11-12'
modified_time: 2022-11-12 09:36:14-05:00
published_time: 2022-11-12 09:36:13-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/11/12/remarks-by-president-biden-at-the-annual-u-s-asean-summit-2/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at the Annual U.S.-ASEAN\_Summit"
---
 
Sokha Hotel  
Phnom Penh, Cambodia

5:24 P.M. ICT  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  It’s wonderful that we gather with all of you again. 
This is my third U.S.-ASEAN Summit of my presidency.  And I was honored
to host the White Hou- — at the White House in May.  And now that we’re
back together here in Cambodia, I look forward to building even stronger
progress than we’ve already made.   
  
And I want to thank the Prime Minister of — for <s>Colombia’s</s>
\[Cambodia’s\] leadership in the ASEAN — as ASEAN chair and for hosting
all of us.   
  
And — and also, I want to recognize that we’re going to be in — all the
work that Indonesia is doing this year.  Mr. President, thank you very
much and — as the Country Coordinator — Coordinator for the United
States.   
  
And, in fact, this is, as I said, my third trip — my third summit —
second in person.  And it’s a testament to the importance that the
United States places on our relationship with ASEAN and our commitment
to ASEAN centrality.   
  
ASEAN is the heart of my administration’s Indo-Pacific Strategy, and we
continue to strengthen our commitment to work in lockstep with an
empowered, unified ASEAN.   
  
Today, we take another critical step: beginning a new era in our
cooperation with the launch of the U.S.-ASEAN Comprehensive Strategic
Partnership.   
  
Together, we will tackle the biggest issues of our time, from climate
change to health security; defend against the significant threats of
rules-based order — to rules-based order and to the — threats to the
rule of law; and to build an Indo-Pacific that is free and open, stable
and prosperous, resilient and secure.   
  
And we’re putting real resources behind our approach, not just
rhetoric.  Over the last year, my administration has announced more than
$250 million in new initiatives with ASEAN.   
  
And for 2023, I’ve requested $<s>850</s> \[825\] million in assistance
for Southeast Asia.  We’re continuing to build on that progress,
following through on our commitments and launching concrete new
initiatives that further strengthen ASEAN and increase — increase
connectivity across Southeast Asia.   
  
Though — through our new U.S.-ASEAN Electric Vehicle Infrastructure
Initiative, we’re going to work together to develop an integrated,
electric vehicle ecosystem in — in Southeast Asia, enabling the region
to pursue clean-energy economic development and ambitious emissions
reductions targets.   
  
Similarly, we’re launching a U.S.-ASEAN Platform for Infrastructure and
Connectivity to bring the benefits of the Partnership for Global
Infrastructure and Investment to the ASEAN countries.   
  
Through this platform, we’ll develop projects together, based on the
needs you identify, to create sustainable, high-standard infrastructure
that supports the people of the region.   
  
We will build a better future — the better future we all say we want to
see and we’re going to see for all but — all one billion people in our
countries.   
  
We’ll also discuss Russia’s brutal war against Ukraine and our efforts
to address the war’s global impacts, including in Southeast Asia.    
  
So, I look forward — I look forward to continuing our work together with
the ASEAN and with each one of you to deepen peace and prosperity
throughout the region, to resolve challenges from the South China Sea to
Myanmar, and to find innovative new solutions to shared challenges.   
  
Thank you again for the 45 years of partnership between ASEAN and the
United States, and for all that we can accomplish together.  Thank
you.  
  
5:28 P.M. ICT
