---
date: '2022-11-14'
modified_time: 2022-11-14 06:41:55-05:00
published_time: 2022-11-14 06:41:54-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/11/14/remarks-by-president-biden-and-president-xi-jinping-of-the-peoples-republic-of-china-before-bilateral-meeting/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden and President Xi Jinping of the People\u2019s\
  \ Republic of China Before Bilateral\_Meeting"
---
 
Mulia Hotel  
Bali, Indonesia

5:41 P.M. WITA

PRESIDENT BIDEN: Well, President Xi, it’s — I’m really glad to be able
to see you again in person. We spent a lot of time together and — back
in the days when we were both vice presidents, and it’s just great to
see you.

And you and I have had a number of candid and useful conversations over
the years and since I became President as well. You were kind enough to
call me to congratulate me, and I congratulate you as well. And I
believe there’s little substitute, though, for — to face-to-face
discussions.

And as you know, I’m committed to keeping the lines of communications
open between you and me personally but our governments across the board,
because our two countries are — have so much that we have an opportunity
to deal with.

As the leaders of our two nations, we share a responsibility, in my
view, to show that China and the United States can manage our
differences, prevent competition from becoming anything ever near
conflict, and to find ways to work together on urgent global issues that
require our mutual cooperation.

And I believe this is critical for the sake of our two countries and the
international community. This — this was a key to the theme of the COP27
meeting, where I spoke on Friday. And we’ll be discussing a lot of these
challenges together, I hope, in the next couple hours.

And the world expects, I believe, China and the United States to play
key roles in addressing global challenges, from climate changes, to food
insecurity, and to — for us to be able to work together.

The United States stands ready to do just that — work with you — if
that’s what you desire.

So, President Xi, I look forward to our continuing and ongoing open and
honest dialogue we’ve always had. And I thank you for the opportunity.

PRESIDENT XI: (As interpreted.) Mr. President, it’s good to see you. The
last time we met was in 2017, during the World Economic Forum in Davos.
That was already more than five years ago.

Since you assumed the presidency, we have maintained communication via
video conferences, phone calls, and letters. But none of them can really
substitute for face-to-face exchanges. And today, we finally have this
face-to-face meeting.

From the initial contact and the establishment of diplomatic relations
to today, China and the United States have gone through 50-plus eventful
years. We have gained experience, and we’ve also learned lessons.

History is the best textbook, so we should take history as a mirror and
let it guide the future.

Currently, the China-U.S. relationship is in such a situation that we
all care a lot about it, because this is not the fundamental interests
of our two countries and peoples and it is not what the international
community expects us.

As leaders of the two major countries, we need to chart the right course
for the China-U.S. relationship. We need to find the right direction for
the bilateral relationship going forward and elevate the relationship.

A statesman should think about and know where to lead his country. He
should also think about and know how to get along with other countries
and the wider world.

Well, in this time and age, great changes are unfolding in ways like
never before. Humanity are confronted with unprecedented challenges. The
world has come to a crossroads. Where to go from here — this is a
question that is not only on our mind but also on the mind of all
countries.

The world expects that China and the United States will properly handle
the relationship. And for our meeting, it has attracted the world’s
attention.

So, we need to work with all countries to bring more hope to world
peace, greater confidence in global stability, and stronger impetus to
common development.

In our meeting today, I’m ready to have a candid — as we always did —
have a candid and in-depth exchange of views with you on issues of
strategic importance in China-U.S. relations and on major global and
regional issues.

I look forward to working with you, Mr. President, to bring China-U.S.
relations back to the track of healthy and stable growth to the benefit
of our two countries and the world as a whole.

Thank you.

5:47 P.M. WITA
