---
date: '2022-11-20'
published_time: 2022-11-20 17:17:07-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/11/20/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-in-press-gaggle-8/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris In Press\_Gaggle"
---
 
*Chief of Mission Residence  
*Bangkok, Thailand**

1:03 P.M. ICT  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Well, this has been a very productive and important
trip to Thailand.  Of course, one of the main reasons that we are here
is to attend the APEC convening.  And the main discussion point there is
the importance of the economic benefit to the relationship among the
partners and allies in this region.  
  
This is my third trip to the Indo-Pacific region as Vice President and
really signifies the significance of the relationship between the United
States and our allies and partners in this region.  
  
The discussions that we had included, in large part, a discussion about
the significance of the climate crisis and what we can do as the United
States to be a leader in that regard.   
  
There was a strong connection between our role of leadership and what
we’ve been doing domestically — in the passage of the Inflation
Reduction Act, for example, where we have committed $370 billion to
address this issue.  I think that is a point of inspiration and
encouragement for other nations in terms of what can be done to meet
this moment.  
  
We discussed the supply chain crisis and what nations must do to be
committed, especially among allies and partners, to resilience and to
what we can do to diversify — understanding that, for many nations, the
supply chain issue was exasperated of course by the pandemic but also
has been exasperated by Russia’s unprovoked attack on and invasion of
Ukraine.   
   
And that then highlights what we must do to address the issue both in
terms of, again, diversification, but also what we, for the United
States, will do through a lot of the work our administration has been
focused on, which is ensuring that we have a domestic basis of
manufacturing of some of the essential needs of our people and
industries.  
  
So, these were some of the areas of focus.  Always, our partnership and
relationship with the nations of this region include our security
relationships, and what we have done historically and what we will
continue to do to focus on ensuring that we are of like mind with our
friends and allies around the threats to security for each of our
nations and what we can do together through security arrangements and
strategic arrangements to collaborate in a way that ensures peace and
stability for this region and, of course, for the world.   
  
So, that was a large part of our trip here.  It has been, as I said,
quite successful.  For the Second Gentleman and I, this is our second
trip to Thailand.  And — and I will tell you that, as — as I think many
people know who have traveled here, it is a beautiful nation and — and
we have enjoyed the experience of the culture and the people and have
received a very warm welcome.  So it is good to be here.  
  
Q    Two questions on — both on your meeting with China’s President Xi. 
First, did you guys discuss North Korea?  And did you get any signals
that he was willing to get China and Russia on board with sanctions?  
  
And second, did you all discuss Taiwan, as he talked about, trying to
improve or make the relationship more stable?  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So, I did have a brief conversation with President
Xi.  And the focus was to reiterate the point that the President made
during their three-and-a-half-hour meeting just recently, which is that
we intend to keep open lines of communication available, because we do —
do understand it is in the best interest of the globe and each nation,
but also that we welcome competition but we do not seek conflict, we do
not seek confrontation.  
  
And so, in that brief discussion, it was important to reiterate where we
stand as a nation, because we are very clear on where we stand in
relation to China.  
  
Q    But did you discuss North Korea or Taiwan?  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  We discussed that we are keeping open lines of
communication, that we do not seek conflict or confrontation, but we
welcome competition.  
  
AIDE:  Meryl.  
  
Q    Have you talked with the Speaker or Representative Jeffries about
their announcements?  And what’s your reaction to it?  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  We have, as you can imagine with the time
difference — we’re about a 12-hour time difference — we — we’re playing
a lot of phone tag.  But I will tell you, Speaker Pelosi is someone that
I think — currently and certainly history will prove and show — has been
one of our greatest elected leaders.  
  
She has been historic in so many ways, not only as a first but because
of the work that she has done and — and the benefit that has resulted
from her work to the people of America.  And as a native Californian, I
know of how she has always represented not only the people of our
country — and, by extension, the world — but the people of her
district.  And I know that the people of San Francisco and California
are thanking her always for the work that she has done.  
  
As it relates to Congressman Jeffries, I think he is an outstanding
leader and I wish him well.  
  
                               END                 1:08 P.M. ICT  
 
