---
date: '2022-11-06'
modified_time: 2022-11-06 21:44:36-05:00
published_time: 2022-11-06 21:44:35-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/11/06/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-a-get-out-the-vote-event-with-governor-pritzker/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at a \u201CGet Out The Vote\u201D Event with\
  \ Governor\_Pritzker"
---
 
*XS Tennis & Education Foundation  
Chicago, Illinois*

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Oh, Pastor Harris, Cousin Harris — (laughs) — and
the Bright Star Congregation Ensemble, thank you for bringing some
church in here today!  (Applause.)  Thank you, thank you.    
  
Hello, Chicago.  It’s so good to be back.  (Applause.)  It is so good to
be back.    
  
Governor, I want to thank you.  It is so good to be back with you.  And,
Madam Lieutenant Governor, I want to thank you for all the work that you
have been doing leading this beautiful state and on to victory in 2020 —
’22!  ’22!  (Applause.)   
  
All right, we got some business to do.  We got some business to do.    
  
We are two days out from an election.  Two days out.  And we got some
serious business to do.  The lieutenant governor talked about it; the
governor talked about it.  Everything is on the line.  There is so much
at stake.    
  
And so let’s just break it down for a moment.  So, I know who’s here.
 This is a room full of leaders.  And so, every election cycle, we come
together and we organize, and we mobilize, and we get folks out to vote,
because we know what’s at stake.  And this is a group of leaders —
community leaders, civic leaders, opinion leaders.    
  
And so what we all know is when we then, during this time, go up to our
neighbors and our friends and our co-workers, we walk up to perfect
strangers — but in their face we do see a neighbor and a friend — and we
ask them to vote.  And every time, they ask a righteous question: “Why
should I vote?”  Well, here’s the thing, Chicago — we got a lot of good
material.  We got a lot of good material.    
  
Because we have to remember the last election, in 2020, when you sent
Joe Biden and me to the White House.  (Applause.)  But let’s remember,
in 2020, we were in the height of a pandemic.  An extraordinary amount
of loss of life.  Folks lost their jobs.  The loss of normalcy.  Parents
were trying to figure out how to educate their kids.    
  
And in the midst of all of that, because of your work, we had an
historic turnout of voters.  An historic turnout of young voters in 2020
— (applause) — because of your work.  
  
And so when we go up to folks over the next two days — by text, email,
phone call knocking on their door — we got a lot of good material.  And
the first thing we’re going to say to folks is, “Thank you for the last
time you voted.”  We’re going to say we understand that when you vote,
it’s kind of like putting in your order.  “This is what I want from my
country.  This is what I want from my leaders — my elected leaders.”   
  
And so, in 2020, in the midst of that all, people stood in line for
hours, they took time to fill out their ballot.  They made such an
effort to vote; they put in their order.    
  
And these are the things they told us: “I want that my country will deal
with the issue of child poverty in America.”  (Applause.)  And so
because they put in their order, we extended the child tax cut
\[credit\] that reduced child poverty in America by over 40 percent in
the first year.  (Applause.)  Because they voted.   
  
They said, “I want to know that you’re paying attention to me as
somebody who is parenting a child, because it’s expensive.”  And they
put in their order.  And so we were able to put in place a tax cut, and
now parents will get up to 8,000 more dollars in their pocket to help
cover the cost of food and medicine and school supplies for their
children.  (Applause.)  They put in their order.  
  
They said, “Look, so many students are saddled down with student loan
debt,” holding back their opportunity to start a family, buy a home, pay
the rent.  They said, “We need some help with that.”  And they put in
their order.  And in spite of all the Republicans who criticized us, we
reduced student loan debt by up to $20,000 — (applause) — because people
put in their order.    
  
They said, “Y’all got to deal with these roads and bridges.  Because,
you see, I have to drive on that and invariably get a flat tire, which
my car insurance does not cover.”  And so we passed an Infrastructure
Law.  And I will tell you right here, in Illinois, you know, at O’Hare
and Midway is going to get 94 million more dollars because of that.
 (Applause.)  Cicero Avenue Bridge, $1.4 billion.  (Applause.)  Because
people put in their order.    
  
People said, “You know what?  You Democrats did a great job in 2008 —
starting in 2008, reforming the healthcare system in America.  But
prescription medication is still too expensive.”  So they said, look,
you know, diabetes affects so many of our families.  Black folks are 60
percent more likely to be diagnosed with diabetes.  And it’s not right
that, in particular, our seniors have to make the choice about whether
they fill a prescription that a doctor ordered, because it will save
their life, or pay for food or rent.  And they put in their order and
said, “Can you deal with that?”  And because they voted, we have capped
the cost of insulin at $35 a month for those seniors.  (Applause.)
 Because they voted.    
  
Because you voted and said, “You know what?  The pharmaceutical
companies have been running the game for too long, jacking up the cost
of prescription drugs.  And it’s about time we take that on.”  And
because you voted, we are now allowing Medicare to negotiate against the
pharmaceutical companies on behalf of 60 million Americans.  (Applause.)
   
  
And all our brothers and sisters in labor understand the power of
collective bargaining.  That’s essentially what that was.    
  
People stood in those lines, took the time to vote, and said, “You know
what?  It’s about time we have a Black woman on the United States
Supreme Court.”  (Applause.)  Her name — her name is Justice Ketanji
Brown Jackson!  (Applause.)  People put in their order.    
  
Pastor, you’re going to forgive me for the next one.  People put in
their order.  They said folks shouldn’t have to go to jail just for
smoking weed.  (Laughs.)  (Applause.)  And it’s legal here, by the way.
 (Laughs.)  People put in their order.    
They voted for all of these things because people took the time and
because you took the time in your role of leadership to remind folks of
their power and what is at stake.  

And so let’s think about this moment and what is at stake.  The highest
court in our land, the United States Supreme Court, the court of
Thurgood, just took a constitutional right, that had been recognized,
from the people of America, from the women of America.    
  
And on this point, I think it’s really important to be clear: One does
not have to abandon their faith or deeply held beliefs to agree the
government should not be telling her what to do.  (Applause.)    
  
But because of that decision, now we are seeing laws being proposed and
passed around our country that would literally criminalize doctors,
nurses, and healthcare providers — literally being written these laws —
with jailtime.    
  
For people who provide reproductive healthcare, laws being passed that
would punish women, that would make no exception for some of the most
violent and violative acts that one could commit against another
person’s body, and then saying, after you have survived that act, we
will deprive you of the authority and ability to decide what happens to
your body next.  Immoral!  
  
There’s so much at stake.   
  
And on that point, by the way, our President has been very clear: We
just need two more senators, and he will not let the filibuster to get
in the way of passing the Women’s Health Protection Act.  (Applause.)
   
  
Two more senators.    
  
Send Tammy Duckworth back to the Senate.  And we need two more.  And you
got some neighbors in this neighborhood around Illinois, including
Fetterman.  Let’s get them elected.  Call your friends, call your
cousins, call your play cousins.  Call whoever you need to.  Remind them
what’s at stake.    
  
And, you know, on this point about the attacks on women’s reproductive
care, if you look at what the Dobbs decision, that Supreme Court
decision said, it said, “Well you know, we have — we basically decided
that it should go to the states.”  Right? Which is why, of course, it is
important that you have this governor and this lieutenant governor —
(applause) — and Kwame Raoul as the attorney general, who came to
Washington, D.C., to lead on this issue with other attorneys general.
 And they said, “Well, it should go to the states.”    
  
And these same people, out of one side of their mouth saying it should
go out to the states, and out of the other side of their mouth are
passing laws making it more difficult for people in the states to vote.
 That’s what’s happening.    
  
We need two more senators.    
  
Because in addition to the Women’s Health Protection Act, our President,
Joe Biden, has been clear: If we get two more senators, he will sign
into law the John Lewis Voting Rights Advancement Act.  (Applause.)    
  
Two more.  Two more senators.    
  
Not to mention these so-called extremist leaders, Republican Party
leaders saying that what’s on the line if they win includes Social
Security, Medicare.    
  
There is so much at stake in this election.    
  
And so here’s the thing: As your Vice President, I will tell you, I have
—  
  
AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Love you, Kamala!  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  I appreciate you.  (Laughs.)  (Applause.)   
  
As Vice President, I have now met with over 100 world leaders,
personally or by phone — presidents, prime ministers, chancellors,
kings.  Here’s the thing that we all know: When we walk into those rooms
representing the United States of America, we walk into those rooms chin
up, shoulders back, professing to represent the greatest democracy in
the world, imperfect though we may be.  And it gives us the authority,
then, to talk about things like rule of law, human rights.    
  
But here’s the thing about being a role model, which we all know: When
you’re a role model, people watch what you do to see if it matches what
you say.  (Applause.)  And in that way, then, my greatest fear is that
dictators and autocrats around the world will say to their people, who
are in the struggle for rights, “Do you want to talk about America?
 Well, look what they’re doing.”    
  
And in that way, what is happening here not only has a direct impact on
the people of our nation, it very well will have a direct impact on
people around the world.  There’s so much at stake.    
  
And, you know, when we talk about, the governor talked about, the
lieutenant governor talked about democracy being on the ballot — the
President talks about it a lot — here’s what I’d offer: I think the
nature of a democracy is that it — there’s a duality to it, two sides to
it.  On the one hand, when a democracy is intact, it is extraordinarily
strong in the strength it can give its people to protect and fight for
their rights, for equality, for justice.  Incredibly strong.  On the
other hand, it is incredibly fragile.  It is only as strong as our
willingness to fight for it.  And so fight we will.  (Applause.)  And so
fight we will.  And so fight we will!    
  
And this is a fight born out of love of country.  We love our country.
 We know what we can do.  We are prepared to stand.  We are prepared to
organize.  We are prepared to talk to our neighbors and our friends.  We
know what we can do in two days.  It’s a long time if you pay attention
every minute.  And like the lieutenant governor said, when we fight, we
win!  (Applause.)    
  
END
