---
date: '2022-11-30'
published_time: 2022-11-30 16:04:54-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/11/30/remarks-as-prepared-for-delivery-by-first-lady-jill-biden-at-a-media-preview-of-the-state-dinner-with-france/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks as Prepared for Delivery by First Lady Jill\_Biden at a Media Preview\
  \ of the State Dinner with\_France"
---
 
State Dining Room, The White House

Welcome everyone, to the White House. We’re in the beginning of our
holiday season, of course, so I hope you are enjoying these beautiful
displays.

My mother made every dinner a special occasion. She would bring out the
china, put fresh flowers on the table, and light candles. Even if we
were only having fish sticks from the freezer, she always made our
dinners feel special.

I learned that setting a table can be an act of love—and once I had my
own family, I did my best to keep that tradition alive.

Our first State Dinner, which we are serving tomorrow night on the South
Lawn—will be no different. It’s an expression of welcome and
friendship—a way to connect through a language that transcends words.
And as each dish comes to the table, so too does the meaning behind it.

Joe and I have had the pleasure of spending some time with President and
Mrs. Macron over the past two years.

When I traveled to Japan to support Team USA at the Olympics last
summer, I found myself cheering alongside President Macron during the
three-on-three women’s basketball game. Though we were rooting for
opposite sides, there was a comradery in the shared love we had for our
teams.

And I got to know Mrs. Macron in Rome, where we instantly clicked as
educators. So I’m excited to bring her to the Planet Word Museum
tomorrow to meet some amazing students.

And now, we are so glad to welcome them to the White House as the first
couple of our oldest ally: France.

The design of this dinner was inspired by the shared colors of our
flags—red, white, and blue—and our common values: liberty and democracy,
equality and fellowship.  
These form the bedrock upon which our enduring friendship was built.

On the tables are vivid red roses and blue delphiniums, alongside white
irises—which are the symbols of our nation’s capital and of France—their
intricate petals reflecting the interwoven history of our nations.

Our chefs, Cris and Susie, have put together such a thoughtful menu for
this event. And I’m especially excited that we are featuring American
cheeses for our cheese course, including Rogue River Blue, the champion
of the 2019 World Cheese Awards.

We chose Jon Batiste as our entertainer for the evening—a performer who
grew up in New Orleans, which has been shaped by both French and
American culture.

From playing in seminal brass bands, to leading the Louisiana Postal
Workers Union during the civil rights movement, the Batiste family has
been part of American history. Tomorrow, we are adding a State Dinner to
that remarkable list.

And throughout the dinner—from images on the pavilion walls, to the
chandeliers that will hang above us, to the dishes and displays on the
tables—are symbols and celebrations of the many ties that bind our
nations together.

The journey of planning this event has been an unforgettable experience.
I’ve had the chance to collaborate with truly brilliant
individuals—especially Carlos Elizondo, our White House Social
Secretary. So many people have worked for months to make this visit
magical and meaningful—and I’m grateful for all of them.

Our hope is that the end result will be a night that balances the beauty
of our friendship with the seriousness of our purpose.

And we hope that French citizens everywhere feel the warmth of our
welcome.

May our relationship grow stronger, our ties deeper, and our futures
brighter as we deepen our partnership.

Now I will turn it over to our White House Social Secretary, Carlos
Elizondo.

\###
