---
date: '2022-11-16'
modified_time: 2022-11-16 15:10:50-05:00
published_time: 2022-11-16 15:10:13-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/11/16/remarks-as-prepared-for-delivery-by-first-lady-jill-biden-at-the-college-promise-careers-institute/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks as Prepared for Delivery by First Lady Jill\_Biden at the College\
  \ Promise Careers\_Institute"
---
 
Washington, D.C.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Thank you, DJ. Wow. Your determination and your heart inspire us all.
And thank you to my friend, and your incredible leader, Martha Kanter.

Just two days ago, alongside the Secretaries of Commerce, Labor, and
Education, I visited a high school in a suburb of Chicago. We were there
to talk about how the entire Biden Administration is coming together to
invest in career-connected learning—programs that bridge the gap between
what students learn and the jobs they will eventually find.

At Rolling Meadows High School, students showed us the amazing projects
they are creating in their manufacturing and engineering classes—from
robots that fight in cage matches to a high-mileage, energy efficient
car. They were preparing for futures I could have never imagined when I
was their age—with free college courses through their local community
college.

I could see how excited the students were about learning. And the best
part was that they all had a clear pathway to a good career.

Education has always been about jobs. You know that. You’ve seen the
ripple effect that begins when one student falls in love with computers,
because a high school gives her the chance to explore new fields; when
she can go to a community college tuition free and learn skills that
allow her to pursue her dream; when she’s connected with the local
businesses that need her talents and she’s able to find work that gives
her purpose and a paycheck.

And the ripple keeps going. Families with more income invest in local
schools and shops. Companies can grow their operations. Towns and cities
become better places to live.

We all benefit. That’s why every student deserves the opportunity to go
to community college and build a great career.

College Promise was founded on that simple but transformative idea.

When I was Second Lady, as the Honorary Chair of the College Promise
National Advisory Board, we launched College Promise programs across the
country.

And since then, my husband, Joe, and I have been dedicated to this
mission. He understands that a pipeline—from high school to affordable
community colleges to great jobs—is the future of our workforce. This
Administration has made historic investments in clean energy,
manufacturing, and infrastructure—and now we need skilled people to fill
those roles. When we bring the full power of the Biden-Harris
administration together with non-profits, schools, employers, community
colleges, and families, we can give students the opportunities they
deserve—and strengthen our economy along the way.

That’s what College Promise is all about. And the results are
incredible. When we started there were just 50 College Promise programs.

Today, there are nearly 400!

You’ve changed the lives of millions of students.

And Joe and I will never stop working to ensure that all Americans can
access community colleges and the career pathways they deserve.

I have so much hope for what we can get done. Because this isn’t a red
or blue issue. It’s an American issue. College Promise has worked with
leaders from both sides of the aisle and across the country. We’ve seen
successful programs in Republican states and Democratic cities and
everything in between. This is one area where we can make real,
bipartisan progress.

But we need your help.

So keep pushing for change. Keep making the case that free community
colleges transform lives and make our nation stronger.

I’ll be with you every step of the way.

Community colleges are one of our greatest engines of prosperity. And if
we want to build a stronger middle class, if we want businesses to have
the skilled workers they need, if we want to prepare our economy for the
future, there is no greater investment we can make than in education.

Thank you.

\###
