---
date: '2022-11-02'
modified_time: 2022-11-02 17:22:22-04:00
published_time: 2022-11-02 17:22:21-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/11/02/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-on-inflation-reduction-act-home-rebates-announcement/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris on Inflation Reduction Act Home Rebates\_\
  Announcement"
---
 
*SMART Training Facility  
Boston, Massachusetts*

4:10 P.M. EDT  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Shamaiah!  Shamaiah.  Hey, everyone.  Please have a
seat.  Shamaiah, you represent the heart and soul of Local 17.  I’m
telling you, you — just the work that you’ve been doing.  And I’ve read
about your work.  I’ve had some time to talk with you.  And you really
do represent the spirit of all that we’re here to talk about.  So thank
you for that introduction and for all that you have done and have yet to
do.  Thank you for that.  (Applause.)   
  
Well, it’s good to be in the house of labor.  (Applause.)    Thank you
all very much.  And it’s good to be back in Boston.     
  
So I will say, first of all, that I wanted to say something about your
senator, Ed Markey.  You know, I served with Ed in the Senate for four
years — the four years I was there.  And he is always fighting for
Massachusetts — always.  I’ve been in those rooms — (applause) — those
small rooms when we would have — well, this is when we were in the
minority, and we would meet for lunch, the Democratic Caucus, in the LBJ
room.  And it was just the senators — no press, nobody else was
there.   
  
And Ed, in his great accent — (laughter) — and, you know, he has a
bellowing voice — would stand in the middle of the lunch, everybody
would put down their forks and knives.  “Here he comes.”  (Laughter.) 
And — and he’d always talk about the working people of this state and
the importance of fighting for them.  
  
It’s good to be with you, Ed.  Thank you.  (Applause.)  Thank you.  
  
And he worked for 13 years on so much that is the foundation of us
convening today.  So thank you for that.  
  
I also want to recognize, of course, your representative Ayanna
Pressley.  I just — (applause) — talk about a fighter.  Talk about a
fighter.  And one of the things that I love about the congresswoman is
that she has an equal amount of fire and force when it comes to her
willingness and ability and preparedness to fight, but also her
optimism.  I really do admire and appreciate that about you.  You fight.
 You know how to fight.  You know how to roll up your sleeves.  But it
always is driven by your optimism about what is possible and your
optimism about the capacity of the people.  And I appreciate that.  And
it’s good to be with you again this afternoon.  Thank you,
Congresswoman.  (Applause.)  Thank you.  
  
And, Mayor Wu, it is good to see you again.  The last time I saw you was
here on Labor Day for the breakfast.  And I want to recognize, in front
of all the friends, your leadership, in partic- — in many ways, but in
particular on what you’ve done to create a division of worker
empowerment with an emphasis on worker training and also on childcare —
something that we still have work to do as a nation, but you’re doing it
right here in Boston.  It’s good to be with you again.  (Applause.) 
Thank you.  Thank you.   
  
So, thank you to Sheet Metal Workers Local 17 for hosting us today. 
(Applause.)  Thank you.  And thank you for going to work every day for
the people of Massachusetts and the people of America.   
  
So, we all know what you do, right?  When the furnace breaks in the
middle of the winter, families call you to get the heat back on.  When
the roof starts to leak or the refrigerator stops running,
small-business owners call for you to help keep their doors open — as
bus drivers and train operators — all of that.  
  
You are the folks who get people to where they need to go and help them
get through the day and through the month, and even in the rain and the
sleet and the snow.  And, yes, I’m talking about sheet metal workers. 
(Laughs.)  (Applause.)  
You are moving our nation forward.  And so, it’s so good to be with
you.   
  
And, you know, I bring you greetings, of course, from our President, Joe
Biden.  And we feel so strongly it is the work that we have all been
doing together — fighting to build a nation where all people can succeed
and thrive — that is some of the best work that I think can be done.   
  
We are fighting, of course together, to create millions of good-paying
good union jobs — (applause) — yes — to protect workers’ rights, to
expand American manufacturing, and to lower costs for American
families.  And the President and I continue to make lowering costs one
of our highest priorities.  
  
We lowered the cost of healthcare by capping insulin prescriptions for
seniors at $35 a month.  (Applause.)   
  
And, you know, for many of us, we’ve traveled around the country and
we’ve met with seniors who have diabetes, and, in so many cases before
this, had to be in a situation where they had to juggle whether they
were going to fill a prescription that a doctor dictated because it
would save their life, and juggle between whether they could afford to
do that or pay rent or buy food.  So this cap of $35 a month is going to
be lifesaving, in addition to bringing down cost.

And finally — finally, we are so proud that we have been able to give
Medicare the power to negotiate prescription drug prices — (applause) —
against the pharmaceutical companies on behalf of 60 million Americans.

And we passed a tax cut, not for corporations, but for parents, to give
them up to 8,000 more dollars in their pocket to help with the expenses
of raising a child, of parenting our children — the cost of things like
food and medicine and school supplies.  Eight thousand — up to 8,000
more dollars in their pocket.

We — (applause) — yes.

We are also canceling student loan debt for millions of Americans —
(applause) — including 800,000 students and borrowers right here in
Massachusetts.  (Applause.)

And help us get the word out, because here’s the reality of it: For so
many of these young people, these young leaders, there are those who
couldn’t even complete their education in these colleges and
universities through graduation because it just got too expensive and
they still have the debt, even though they weren’t able to graduate.  So
please help get the word out that even if they did not graduate, they
are eligible for this debt relief of up to $20,000.  (Applause.)

And, of course, we are doing everything we can to lower gas prices,
which have fallen more than $1.20 a gallon since the summer.

And to be clear, gas prices would fall if oil companies — they’d fall
even further if the oil companies used their record profits to help
American families instead of their shareholders.  (Applause.)

And finally, we are fighting together to lower home energy costs for
families across the nation, which is the subject that brings us together
this afternoon.

So, one of the best ways a family can reduce the energy bill is to make
their home more energy efficient.  But here’s the challenge: For many
homeowners, many folks who are here today, you know that energy
efficiency upgrades are expensive.  And even though we know it can save
you thousands of dollars in the long run, the upfront cost is often too
high for so many families to be able to afford.  And that is why we are
investing $300 million here in Massachusetts and $13 billion nationwide
to help families pay to upgrade their homes and to lower their monthly
energy bills.  
  
And that means providing rebates of more than $800  
per household to help families purchase and install, for example, a new
electric stove; and providing up to $1,600 per household to help
families install new insulation.  And it means giving families up to
$8,000 to replace their gas furnace. (Applause.)   
  
And to be clear, an electric heat pump is significantly cheaper to run. 
In fact, I was talking about — I’ve been looking at the diagrams in the
back hall of the HVAC system.  It’s really very intricate and it
requires an incredible level of education and skill.  I have mad respect
for those who are putting them together and installing them.  
  
But they are also more efficient in terms of energy bills, not to
mention just a piece of art if you see it the way that they work.   
  
So, on average, families that switch to an electric heat pump can save
up to $500 a year on their energy bill.  And since heat pumps do not
burn oil or gas, they also mean cleaner air  
inside your home.  
  
At the same time, we will also provide immediate help to  
low-income families to pay their energy bills this winter.  And for
those who are looking for that help, please go to: EnergyHelp.us to find
where you can get help with your energy bill this winter.   
  
So, as the workers here know, these investments will also create jobs. 
Jobs for electricians who do the residential wiring.  Jobs for laborers
who install energy-efficient windows and doors.  Jobs for sheet metal
workers — (applause) — who build and install electric heat pumps.  Jobs
for union workers who will be trained right here in this building. 
(Applause.)   
  
And in addition to lowering costs and creating jobs, this investment
will also help us fight the climate crisis.  
  
And, again, Ed, thank you for the work that you’ve done on this.   
  
Last year, President Biden set an ambitious goal: Our nation would cut
our greenhouse gas emissions at least in half by no later than 2030. 
And by no later than 2050, we would reach net-zero emissions.  
  
Today, I am proud to report that because of investments  
like this one, our nation is well positioned to meet those goals. 
(Applause.)   
  
So, Local 17 Boston, here is the point: We are working, all of us
together, at the intersection of so many important priorities.  
  
By helping families pay the upfront cost for energy efficiency upgrades
to their homes, we are also lowering energy bills, bringing down
household costs, creating jobs, and fighting the climate crisis.  It’s
all connected.  It’s all connected with this effort.  
  
And it is helping us to build a nation where all people  
can succeed and thrive.  So, I thank you all for the work you have
done.  It is this kind of leadership and collaboration that will allow
our nation to grow its strength, its prosperity, and its position of
leadership around the globe.   
  
I’m very proud of what we are doing here, and I thank you for the hard
work that went into all of it.   
  
May God bless you.  And may God bless America.  Thank you all. 
(Applause.)   
  
END                4:23 P.M. EDT
