---
date: '2022-11-01'
published_time: 2022-11-01 20:59:10-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/11/01/remarks-by-president-biden-on-protecting-social-security-and-medicare-and-lowering-prescription-drug-costs/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on Protecting Social Security and Medicare and\
  \ Lowering Prescription Drug\_Costs"
---
 
OB Johnson Community Center  
Hallandale Beach, Florida

2:55 P.M. EDT   
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Hello, Hallandale Beach.  God love you.  Well, thank
you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you.  
  
Please, have a seat.  Please, have a seat.  Thank you.  Thank you very,
very much.    
  
Thanks, Sheldon, for that introduction.  And, Sheldon, there’s millions
of people like you all across America who went through the same thing. 
And — and not only seniors, but a lot of Americans.  My — my son had
Stage 4 glioblastoma.  Thank God he was in the military.  Well, that’s
how he got it.  But anyway, he spent a year in Iraq.  But he had
coverage, but the costs were astronomical.  The costs are
astronomical.   
  
You all know somebody who’s had a serious disease.  Some of these drugs
can be 10-, 12-, 15,000 bucks a year, some of them.   
  
And so what Sheldon went through is something that a lot of you, maybe
some in the audience, have gone through as well.  
  
And, well, look, let me start off by saying I love Debbie Wasserman
Schultz, and I make no apologies.  (Applause.)  She is not only one of
my best friends in the United States Congress — I know I don’t look it,
but I served 36 years in the Congress.  (Laughter.)  And I spent time
working with Debbie.  She wasn’t there nearly that long when I was
there.  
  
But my point is we became good friends, because she has enormous
integrity.  Enormous integrity.  She has a sense — a sense of
understanding what people are going through, and she plays it out.  She
works it out.  And so, she was one of my biggest, biggest supporters in
helping me not only pass but draft and move some of the legislation
we’re going to talk about today — a couple pieces of it.   
  
And I don’t have a greater friend in the United States Senate, and I
don’t have a greater friend when I was Vice President nor as President. 
So, Debbie, thank you, kid.  I don’t know where you’re sitting, but —
oh, there you are, Debbie.  Thank you.  (Applause.)  
  
Folks, the last time I was in Florida was almost a month ago, because of
Hurricane Ivan — Ian, excuse me.  And we surveyed the damage on the
ground in Fort Myers, and it was — and the surrounding communities by
air, helicopter.  The damage and destruction was historic, almost —
almost unimaginable.  
  
And I’ve said then that it’s going to take not weeks or months but years
to fully recover and rebuild.  But I also made a commitment.  I made a
commitment that my administration, the federal government would give the
people of Florida the commitment that we’re going to not move until it’s
all done.  We’re going to stick with you until it gets all done.   
  
And look, folks, my administration has been through — is going to follow
through on those commitments to get the people of Florida what they need
as fast as they can get it and the help to rebuild.  
  
So far, we put in through the legislation — and Debbie helped me pass as
well — $1.7 billion in federal grants.  (Applause.)  And disaster loans
and flood insurance payments have been provided to the state and small
businesses and households.  
  
FEMA has made assistance available to 26 counties and will provide
temporary housing and — for the survivors of those of — 6 counties.   
  
We’ve sent 24 Disaster Recovery Centers across the state for survivors
to register for help.  
  
And FEMA — Federal Emergency Management <s>Assistance</s> \[Agency\] —
is going door to door to reach people as well. They’ve also performed
over eight- — 180,000 home inspections — 180,000 personal inspections.

And the U.S. Small Business Administration has approved $460 million in
low-interest business loans for renters and homeowners.  
  
Like I said, this is just the beginning of our effort, and we’re going
to be with you every step of the way.  
  
And, by the way, the very piece of legislation I’m talking about today
contained $369 billion for environmental protection. (Applause.)   
  
Folks, well, I’ve come to Florida today to talk about two very, very,
very important programs — two very important — that’s going to affect as
many Americans as anything else.  And a great deal of people in this
state are going to be affected.  
  
And they’re under siege by our Republican friends.  And, by the way,
this ain’t your father’s Republican Party.  This is a different deal
right now.  And there’s a lot of good Republicans out there, but they’re
under a lot of pressure.  
  
Social Security and Medicare are the two things I want to talk about.  
  
You know, they’ve been around a long time.  President Roosevelt signed
the Social Security law into — into law 87 years ago.  And Lyndon Baines
Johnson signed Medicare into law 50 years ago.  
  
These programs — these programs are — do something so basic yet so
important.  Almost half of all seniors in the United States lived in
poverty before Social Security.  Let me say that again: 50 percent —
almost 50 percent of all the seniors in America lived in poverty before
— before this law was passed.  Almost half the seniors — half of them —
lived in poverty, even those who spent a lifetime working.  Not enough
to put food on the table.   
  
Until Medicare came along, no healthcare they could count on.  And think
about what that does to your sense of security, what it does to a
person’s dignity.  
  
Unless you were wealthy, people often worked until they took their last
breath.  They couldn’t even think about retiring.  And if they did,
they’d starve.  
  
Then along came — we came together as a country — Democrats and
Republicans — and said, “We have to do better than this.”  After working
hard for decades, people deserve better than what existed at the time.  
  
They deserved to retire with dignity and peace of mind.  And that’s —
that’s how it should be in the United States of America.  
  
Some of you are So- — on Social Security or your parents or grandparents
are.  They earned it.  They earned every single paycheck they put money
in since they were teenagers to pay for Social Security.  
  
And those are more than government programs.  They’re a promise — a
promise we made as a country to work hard and contribute, and when it
comes time to retire, we’re going to be there for you.  We’re going to
be there for the basic needs.  
  
That’s been a rock-solid guarantee, an ironclad commitment.  Generations
— generations of Americans have counted on it.  And it works.  
  
The number of elderly people living in poverty has plummeted since
Social Security was created.  It has transformed millions of people’s
lives.  
  
Here in Florida, 21 percent of the people are over the age of 65.  It’s
the second-highest of any state in the country as a percent of their
state.  
  
Some are people of means, but the vast majority live day to day relying
on Social Security and Medicare — and maybe a little help from their
families.  That’s why I’m going to keep fighting for these programs,
because I believe — the word my dad used all the time — everyone is
entitled to be treated with dignity.   
  
AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Yes, sir!   
  
(Applause.)  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  How — no, I mean it.  It’s just basic.  Basic stuff. 
How could a child look at their mom and dad, and not be able to afford
to take care of them, and still maintain their own dignity?  
  
I believe hard work should be rewarded.  And I believe that we should
leave no one behind, not in the United States of America.  
  
So, that’s why we passed the Inflation Reduction Act, which Deb- —
Debbie helped write, pass, and — and monitor all the way through.  And
thank you for that.  (Applause.)  
  
There’s a number of parts to it, but I want to talk about one.  I want
to talk about Medicare.  
  
Every single Democrat in Congress voted for the Inflation Reduction
Act.  Not a sin- — every single one — every single one voted for it.  
  
Not one single Republican voted for it in the House and the Senate.  
  
Take prescription drugs.  Folks, we pay the highest price for
prescription drugs than anywhere in the world.  The prescription you
have from a drug manufacturer in the United States you get at the local
drugstore, you can get in a plane and fly to Paris, you can get the same
exact drug for less — every other major capital in the world.   
  
How can that be?  Why is that the case?  The very same prescription by
the very same company.  
  
For years — for years, many of us have tried very hard to bring
prescription drugs under control.  But, for years, Big Pharma has stood
in the way.  They beat us every time.  I remember starting this battle
when I was a 35-year-old United States senator.  
  
Over the past year, drug companies raised the price, to — to make a
reference to what my introducer said — raised the price on 1,200 drugs
more than the rate of inflation.  
  
Let me get something clear here.  Hold for a second.  Let me make
something clear.  It’s not they did anything more to the drug — more
research and development on that particular drug to make it better. 
They did nothing.  Nothing.  Same exact drug, with no change.  
  
I understand if they have a breakthrough on that drug and make it more
effective and charge more.  I get that.  But none of that.  None.  
  
The average price for those drugs was raised over 30 percent.  
  
In 2022, the price of one blood pressure medicine — one — that millions
of Medicare recipients are relying every day increased 500 percent. 
Five times.  The exact same drug.  No change whatsoever.  
  
Another drug treating autoimmune conditions increased by $1,000 — $1,000
— for an autoimmune disease.  Again, no change in the quality of it,
just change in the price.  
  
And they talk about inflation.  You know, we’re dealing with — but hold
for a second.  inflation is a worldwide problem right now because of a
war in Iraq and the impact on oil, and what Russia is doing — I mean,
excuse me, the war in Ukraine.  And — I’m thinking of Iraq because
that’s where my son died.  The — because he died.   
  
But the point is that there — you know, that’s why it’s up.  We have the
lowest inflation rate of almost any major country in the world.  We’ve
done a lot to try to take it under control.  I’ve released millions of
barrels of oil from our Strategic Petroleum Reserve, keeping the price
down.  It’s down about $1.25 and going down.  It needs to go more.  
  
But they talk about inflation all the time.  What in God’s name?   
  
And they ask why I call this the “Inflation Reduction Act.” If you have
to take a prescription that cost you an arm and a leg and I reduce that,
and you don’t have to pay as much, it reduces your cost of living.  It
reduces inflation in your paycheck.  (Applause.)    
  
And, by the way — (applause) — no, I’m serious.  My dad used to say,
“Everybody deserves a little bit of breathing room.”  Granted, when the
price of a gas — a gallon of gasoline went up, we talked about it at our
kitchen table.  We weren’t poor; we were an average, middle-class
family.  We lived in a three-bedroom, split-level house in a development
in a suburban area.  We were in a situation where, you know, we had four
kids and a grandpop living with us.   
  
And — but it was — we — we weren’t poor.  But we — didn’t have any
money.  We didn’t have anything left over.  And so it was, you know, do
you have anything left to have a little bit of breathing room.  
  
Look what’s happening in the drug prices on average Americans.  It’s
actually outrageous.  But this year, we finally beat pharma.  We finally
beat pharma.  (Applause.)   No, I’m — I’ve been trying this a long, long
time.  Debbie and I have been trying to do it.  Finally, Big Pharma lost
and Americans won.  Thanks, again, to the Democrats in the Congress.   
  
And I — you know, I have a bad reputation of “Biden is not partisan
enough.”  Well, on this one, I’m partisan.  (Laughter.)  Because a lot
of these guys came up to me — and women — and said — you know, basically
said — not up to me; they can’t come up to me in the White House as much
when I see them though — saying, “I know you’re right, but it’d cost me
my election.  I’d lose a primary if I supported you.”  
  
Well, look, starting in January, if Big Pharma tries to raise the drug
prices faster than the cost of inflation, they’re going to have to write
a check for the difference back to Medicare to cover the distance — the
difference.  (Applause.)  We’re lowering.  
  
Instead of the money going to the pockets of big drug companies buying
back their own stock, which is the way in which — just — why do they
keep buying their own stock back?  That’s how the executives get paid. 
Eighty-nine percent of their salary — I think that’s the number — is
paid on stock.   
  
Well, guess what?  If you have 100 shares of stock and you buy back 50,
the 50 left are worth more than 100 each one.  Same total amount.  And
also, they’re, in fact, put into the pockets of their shareholders. 
There’s nothing wrong with that per se, unless they’re — somehow you’re
ripping people off to get there.  But going to you — this time it goes
into your pockets for lower drug prices.  (Applause.)   
  
And, look, the practical thing, at least in my household where I was
raised, is that means you have more money for the car payments; more
money for groceries, which are high because of Putin cutting off grain
supplies; you have more money to put toward holiday shopping for your
grandkids.  It’s about basic standard of living for ordinary
Americans.   
  
What the drug companies are doing now is really inflating your cost of
living.  And we’re doing something about it.  
  
We’re going to give Medicare the power to negotiate lower prescription
drug costs, period.  Period.  
  
We fought for years to make this happen.  This year, we got it done. 
Medicare is going to finally have the power to negotiate lower
prescription drug prices like the VA can do — the Veterans
Administration.  We can — they — they can do that now.  And private
insurance companies.   
  
The VA can say, “Look, if you want to sell all our veterans that
particular drug, we’re not going to pay that much for it.  We’re not
going to pay $10.  We’re only going to pay $7.50.  If you don’t want it,
we’re not going to buy it.  You don’t want to sell it to us.”  Well,
it’s a gigantic customer.  Well, the biggest customer in the world for
the drug companies is Medicare.   
  
And so when the VA negotiated prices that are 54 percent lower on
average than Medicare prescription drugs — the same if you’re a senior
veteran on a Medicare drug — on a drug that another person — because
you’re VA — another person is on that same drug who’s a retired banker
or a retired autoworker, guess what?  The person at the VA — and they
deserve it — gets fif- — is paying 54 percent less for the same exact
medicine, prescription.  It doesn’t make any sense.  
  
But now Medicare is going to have the power to negotiate lower drug
prices.  So, for example — (applause) — when these guys come along and
say, “You know, we’re going to charge you…” — I’m making this up —
“We’re going to charge you 10 cents per an aspirin.”  And they say, “No,
we’re only going to pay five.”  “Well, we’re not going to sell it to
you.”  No problem, they’re going to lose 50 billion ma- — aspirin or
whatever the hell they sell.  
  
The point is, they’re going to have to respond.  Seniors are going to
see their out-of-pocket costs for prescriptions — this is really
important.  It was really important to my mom and my dad.  Thank God,
you know, we had four kids, we were able to make up the difference for
mom and dad.  
  
But — but guess what?  Now the total amount of drug prices —
prescription drug price you have to pay in any one year, if you’re a
senior on Medicare or Social Security, will not be more than — not be
more than $2,000 a year.  (Applause.)  That’s it.  
  
You can need to purchase — you can produce $15,000 worth of drugs, you
only pay $2,000 — $2,000 for prescription drugs, period, whether it’s
expensive — expensive cancer drugs or any other drugs they need from the
pharmacy.  
  
My son, who died of stage four glioblastoma — the cost of those drugs
was enormous.  Enormous.  
  
We’re talking about drug that could cost $9-, $10-, $14,000 a year.  But
thanks to this law, seniors are going to be limited to having to pay
$2,000 a year for all the drugs they need.  (Applause.)  All the drugs
they need.  
  
Now, starting in January, we’re also capping the cost of insulin.  How
many of you know somebody with diabetes who needs insulin?  Well, guess
what?  And we — when we — when — when Debbie and I passed this law, it
included everybody, not just seniors.  
  
And so, what happened was we said — okay, you know how much it cost to
make that insulin drug for diabetes?  Cost — it was invented by a man
who did not patent it because he wanted it available for everyone.  I
spoke to him, okay?  And guess what?  It cost 10 bucks to make.  Ten
bucks to make.  And if you count packaging and everything, you can maybe
get it up to $15.  
  
Well, guess what?  They’re not going to have to pay more than $35 a
month.  (Applause.)  They’ll still make a significant profit instead of
an average of $400 a month.  
  
Look, at some —  
  
AUDIENCE MEMBER:  (Inaudible.)  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  No, well, it’s important.  And guess what?  It affected
— I was at a — an event like this in Virginia about four months ago,
talking about this — what I was doing.  And a woman stood up and she
said, “I have two children.  They both have diabetes.  And I can’t
afford the insulin, so we have to share it.  We have to cut it back.  We
split it in half.”  
  
Imagine a parent looking at their child, knowing they don’t have the
money or the insurance to be able to pay for it.  Talk about being
deprived of your dignity, looking at your child who could have permanent
damage or die without access.  
  
Made me so — anyway.  
  
And, by the way, we’re making hearing aids more affordable — (applause)
— available over the counter so people don’t have to pay expensive
visits to specialists.  
  
Folks who need them, these hearing aids are available now.  The FDA
estimates it’s going to save patients $3,000 per set of hearing aids. 
(Applause.)  
  
Plus, for seniors on Medicare Part D, recommended vaccines like shingles
vaccines are now available for free.  Too many people have been paying
$200 for those shots up to now — (applause) — on average, folks.  On
average, they’re paying $200 for — $100 — as much as two \[hundred
dollars\] some places, I should say.  
  
And guess what?  You have to wonder how many seniors skip the shot
because they couldn’t afford it.  Well, they’re going to be free now. 
(Applause.)  You won’t have to make that choice anymore.  
  
And for years, the fee you paid for Medicare to cover your visit to your
doctor’s office has gone up.  Now, for the first time in more than a
decade, it’s going to go down.  It’s going to go down.  (Applause.)  For
real.  
  
And on my watch, for the first time in 10 years, seniors are getting an
increase in their Social Security checks (inaudible).  (Applause.)  So,
checks are going to be up and Medicare payments are going to be down.  
  
And, look, it’s a big deal for seniors.  Just add up how much we’re
reducing the cost of living on Medicare for those in need of healthcare:
$2,000 cap on total drugs, $2,000 for seniors in a year.  
  
We’re also in a situation where we’re going to make it difficult for
them to charge so much more.  Thousands of dollars a year are going to
be saved by reducing insulin costs.  
  
We’re saving some people thousands of dollars, as I said, a year
reducing the cost of hearing aids to $3,000 — by $3,000.  The cost of
single shots from $100 to $200, to zero.  
  
That’s real money.  
  
Seniors on Medicare, that adds up somewhere between $5- and $10,000 a
year.  (Applause.)  “Some breathing room,” as my dad would say, at the
end of the month, end of the year.  
  
Folks, this is progress that’s hard won and hard fought by Debbie and
some of her colleagues.   
  
I wish I could say our Republican friends in Congress made it happen.  I
truly do, by the way.  I truly do, because we used to be able to do a
lot of the bipartisan things.  
  
But the truth is, every single Democrat in Congress voted for the
Inflation Reduction Act.  And every single, solitary Republican in
Congress voted against these savings — every single one, including
Senator Rubio, who now acts like he doesn’t —  
  
AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  No, but I — I really meant — I — I was disappointed.  It
really disappointed me.   
  
Now listen to what they’re telling us.  Republicans in Congress are
telling us that their number-one priority if they gain control of the
congress next Tuesday, is to repeal — number one, the Speaker said — the
Leader — Republican Leader said their number-one priority is to repeal
the Inflation Reduction Act.   
  
That also includes all the — all the amount it’s going to save —
hundreds of thousands of dollars for people in terms of their energy
bills — because they’re going to do away with the whole issue with
regard to weatherization.  
  
But let’s be crystal clear what it means: If Republicans in the Congress
have their way, the power we just gave Medicare to negotiate
prescription drug prices goes away — gone.  
  
The $2,000 cap on prescription drugs — gone.  
  
The $35-a-month cap on Medicare — for insulin for Medicare — gone.  
  
The savings on healthcare premiums of $800 a year for millions of
Americans in the Affordable Care Act — gone.  
  
And of course, they’re still determined to do away with the entire
Affordable Care Act.  That means an end to protections for tens of
millions of people who can’t get insurance because they have a
pre-existing condition.  The only means to do that is through the
Affordable Care Act.   
  
If the Republicans get their way, that’s going to be gone as well.  
  
And, folks, it gives — it gets even worse.  They’re coming after your
Social Security and Medicare in a big way.  Folks here in Florida, you
need to know this.  And I mean this sincerely.  You need to know this. 
You need to know why.  Because if your own senator — Senator Rick Scott
— I have the brochure here he has.   
  
He is — he isn’t — he’s in charge of electing Republicans to the
Senate.  He’s the head of the campaign.  And he laid out a clear plan. 
He said every five years, Social Security and Medicare would have to be
reauthorized.   
  
And this is from the report.  I — I made it larger, listed all they want
to do.  Quote, “All federal legislation sunsets” — it means go out —
goes out of existence — “in five years.  If \[the\] law is worth
keeping, Congress \[will\] pass it again.”  
  
So, every five years, the Congress will have to vote to reauthorize
Social Security — reauthorize it or else it goes away.  Would have to
vote to reauthorize Medicare, reauthorize veterans benefits, and I go
down the list.   
  
But guess what?  The very idea that a senator from Florida wants to cut
Social Security and Medicare — and, by the way, they don’t have to just
— they don’t go away, they can cut it, they can change it basically.  A
senator from Florida going after Medicare and Social Security?  
  
AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  I tell you what, I don’t know — as they say in Southern
Delaware, “I don’t know where y’all been.  Hot damn, boy.” 
(Laughter.)   
  
I tell you, look, it’s so outrageous, you might even — you might not
even believe it.  And again, word for word: All federal legislation
sunsets — it means goes away — in five years.  If the law — if the law
is worth keeping, Congress can pass it again.  In other words, it goes
out of existence if Congress doesn’t vote to keep it.  Isn’t that
wonderful?  
  
And then along came Senator Johnson from Wisconsin.  He says, “Five
years is too long to wait.”  No, I — it’s hard to believe.  No, I really
mean it, it’s hard to believe.  
  
He says it takes — that’s too long.  Every year — every single year, it
should be on the chopping block, along with veterans’ benefits and
everything else in the federal budget.  If Congress doesn’t vote
affirmatively to keep it, it goes away — gone.  
  
You’ve been paying into Social Security your whole life.  You earned
it.  Now these guys want to take it away.  Who in the hell do they think
they are?  Excuse my language.  (Applause.)  
  
Just imagine what that would mean.  Imagine a childcare worker in her
mid-60s, been at it for 35 years.  She’s paid into Medicare and Social
Security with every paycheck — it either gets cut or it’s gone.  She’s
getting ready to retire, trying to make plans for the future.  She
thought she could count on Medicare and Social Security to help her
through that.  But with these guys, she doesn’t know anymore.   
  
And Republicans in Congress vote to take away a — another Medicare
benefit in a few years, what’s that do to her planning?   
  
They’re going to increase retirement age for Social Security and shrink
benefits.  That’s what — that’s what they’re moving to do.  
  
Well, imagine the widow here in Florida, and all she has left is Social
Security.  What is she going to do if it goes away?  If she didn’t have
Social Security, the poverty rate for people over 65 years of age would
be four times what it is now.   
  
Imagine a senior who takes a couple of expensive medications for
arthritis and high blood pressure.  He’s one of more than a million
people with Medicare who will have to spend more than $2,000 in the
pharmacy drugs again.

Look, for years, he’s been struggling to keep up with the cost of these
prescription.  Now, finally, there’s relief with a $2,000 cap.

But if Republicans have their way instead of looking forward to having
extra money in their pocket, it’s not going to happen.  Will this drug
cost skyrocket in Congress if Republicans get rid of the cap?  Well,
they’re going to need a hell of a lot of votes, because I’ll veto it. 
(Applause.)  But, look, it could make changes that drive drug costs even
higher.  Just imagine living with that uncertainty.  And what do
Republicans want to do with the money?

Well, guess what?  They talk about they want to cut taxes for the
wealthy and the corporations.  In 2020, 55 of the corporate 500
companies — the largest companies in the wor- — in the United States of
America — made $40 billion, paid zero in income tax.

So I passed a law saying they got to pay a minimum of 15 percent — 15
percent.  You all pay more than that.  (Applause.)  Fifteen percent.

Well, they want to repeal it.  It would allow some of the largest, most
profitable companies in America to go back to paying zero.  And they
want to extend the $2 trillion tax cut, which overwhelmingly benefited
the very wealthy and the biggest corporations in the last
administration, not a penny of which was paid for in the Trump
administration.

What’s become of us?

Folks, many of us are focused on inflation right now.  But let me say
something; I want to point something out.  They talk about “big spendin’
Democrats.”  Yeah, I spent a lot of money to do these things.  But guess
what?  I cut the deficit in half.  (Applause.)  In half — the federal
deficit.  This year alone, 1-trillion-400-dollar reduction — -400
billion dollars reducing the debt.  (Applause.)  And last year, $350
billion reducing the debt.

Give me a break.  I’m so sick and — well, I shouldn’t get going. 
(Laughter.)  Come on, man.  (Applause.)  I mean, it’s just amazing.  No,
that’s a fact.  Yeah, that’s a —

As my granddaughter — she used to say, “Google it.”  (Laughter.)  I’m
serious.  We cut the federal deficit in half while doing all this.  And
we did it by just growing the economy in many ways and also — also
making sure people begin to pay their fair share.

And, by the way, the largest tax increase we had was people for
companies who were paying zero to 15 percent.  School teachers pay a
hell of a lot more than 15 percent.  So I don’t know what the deal is
here.

Quickly, let’s talk — and I’ll end this — talk about inflation.  If you
want to raise the cost of living on seniors, go ahead and give free rein
to drug companies.  Look at what these drug companies have done. 
Republicans in Congress are cheering them on.  Go ahead and redu- — go
ahead and reduce Social Security and Medicare, watch what happens to the
cost of living for hardworking Floridians.  That’s what I call
inflation.   
  
At the end of the month, what you have left, if you have no money,
that’s inflation.  What’s — what are you — the things you need, are they
going up?  They are.  They are.   
  
And now they’ve come forward with a real ticking time bomb.  This one is
outrageous.  And I mean it.  And I’ve been here a long time.  Now the
Republican Leader is saying if I don’t cooperate in cutting Social
Security — between going back into session and the end of this term —
and I don’t — I don’t support cutting Medicare and Social Security,
they’re going to shut down the government by not providing the votes to
pay our federal debt to other countries in the world.  It’d be the first
time in all of American history that our — they’re not going to get it
done.   
  
But guess what?  Remember last time Republicans tried this, and I was,
literally, as Vice President, negotiating with the Republican Leader
until almost Christmas Eve Day — I mean, New Year’s Eve day until close
to midnight, and we finally got it resolved because they couldn’t take
the — they weren’t going to continue, they knew what would happen?  But
remember what happened?  The entire credit of the federal government was
degraded internationally because we played that game.  It didn’t even do
it, and it degraded it.  
  
Look, this is irresponsible.  Nothing, nothing, nothing will create more
chaos and do more damage to the American economy than playing around
with whether we pay our national bills.  
  
Let me close with this: Over the past few years, we’ve faced some of the
most difficult challenges in our history, both at home and abroad.  But
we’re making real progress.  We just have to keep going while protecting
what generations before us did and make sure we’re the nation we thought
we were.   
  
Look, I know we can do this.  I really do.  I’m confident.  For
everything we’ve been through, I’ve never been more optimistic about
American prospects.  We’re better situated than any nation in the
world.  We really are.  We have to just remember who we are.  We’re the
United States of America.  (Applause.)  No, I’m not joking.  And there’s
nothing — nothing beyond our capacity if we set our mind together and
work together.  
  
So, God bless you all.  And God protect our troops.  And God give some
of our Republican friends some enlightenment.  Thank you.  (Laughter and
applause.)

3:28 P.M. EDT
