---
tags: blog
date: '2021-11-17'
modified_time: 2021-12-15 16:28:41-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/blog/2021/11/17/recent-progress-at-our-ports-moving-cargo-and-filling-shelves/
published_time: 2021-11-17 16:12:41-05:00
title: "Recent Progress at Our Ports: Moving Cargo and Filling\_Shelves"
---
 
Earlier this month, [we
announced](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/blog/2021/11/03/improving-and-tracking-supply-chains-link-by-link/)
that we would, twice a month, track how well our nation’s transportation
and logistics supply chain is handling the increase in demand for goods
as we recover from the pandemic. With the data for the full month of
October now in, we continue to see the goods movement supply chain
moving more goods than ever before, goods reaching stores, and the
velocity of goods leaving the Ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach
increasing.

**Tracking progress at our ports**

Yesterday, the Ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach offered preliminary
estimates of 849,000 loaded containers imported in October. This brings
the total number of containers they have imported between January and
October to 8.6 million, which is 16 percent more than their previous
record over the same period in 2018. The
[ports](https://kentico.portoflosangeles.org/getmedia/a9af147a-ace7-4f27-9b2f-b25ecb73dc30/import-container-dwell-report)
[also](https://polb.com/port-info/import-dwell-report/) reduced the
number of containers sitting on the docks for more than 9 days by about
one-third over the first two weeks of November.

<figure>
<img
src="https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/11_17-dashboard.jpg"
class="wp-image-38699" loading="lazy"
sizes="(max-width: 936px) 100vw, 936px"
srcset="https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/11_17-dashboard.jpg 936w, https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/11_17-dashboard.jpg?resize=615,319 615w, https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/11_17-dashboard.jpg?resize=768,399 768w"
width="936" height="486" />
</figure>

We continue to monitor the ability of the goods movement supply chain to
get goods from the ports to store shelves. Census data, specifically
inflation-adjusted [retail
inventories](https://www.census.gov/mtis/index.html) without autos, show
that the value of the goods on retailers’ store shelves and in their
warehouses grew between the end of September and the end of October and
is now 1 percent above its pre-pandemic level. Higher frequency data
[from IRI](https://indices.iriworldwide.com/covid19/?i=5) show that the
share of consumer-packaged goods that are in stock was 90% last week,
just one percentage point below its pre-pandemic level.

The goods movement chain is controlled by the private sector, which is
why we have continued to work closely with the private sector to drive
improvements to the system. Corporate leaders have recently reaffirmed
that the system is successfully moving products.  In discussing the
holiday season, FedEx CEO Fred Smith
[said](https://twitter.com/FaceTheNation/status/1457386195466457093) “I
think we’re ready for this. This year we’re forecasting we will deliver
100 million more shipments in this holiday season than we did in 2019.”
In a call with President Biden last week, Target CEO [Brian
Cornell](https://www.reuters.com/article/usa-supplychain-biden-idCAKBN2HU2HA)
“shared that we are ready to deliver a great shopping experience for
guests this holiday season,” that inventories are higher than last year,
and that they are seeing containers move at night at the ports of Los
Angeles and Long Beach. Walmart
[said](https://www.wsj.com/articles/walmart-raises-forecast-and-says-shelves-are-stocked-for-holiday-shoppers-11637066985)
it had more products flowing through its supply chain than during the
same period last year when pandemic demand for some products strained
supply. Its U.S. inventory rose 11.5% in the quarter.

<figure>
<img
src="https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/LA-Port-1117.jpg"
class="wp-image-38701" loading="lazy"
sizes="(max-width: 1076px) 100vw, 1076px"
srcset="https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/LA-Port-1117.jpg 1076w, https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/LA-Port-1117.jpg?resize=615,381 615w, https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/LA-Port-1117.jpg?resize=768,475 768w, https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/LA-Port-1117.jpg?resize=1034,640 1034w, https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/LA-Port-1117.jpg?resize=1038,642 1038w"
width="1076" height="666" />
</figure>

**Reducing Congestion to Increase Velocity**

The reduction in long-dwelling containers was due, in part, to a new
congestion fee the ports imposed on ocean carriers. The carriers have
been so successful at clearing the docks that the ports [announced this
week](https://www.portoflosangeles.org/references/2021-news-releases/news_111521_dwelpostpone)
they would postpone charging the fee. Reducing the number of containers
sitting at the port improves overall efficiency by creating more space
for containers to be unloaded more quickly and giving trucks more room
to maneuver.

However, the docks are not just full of loaded containers. Thousands of
empty containers remain on the docks as well, often sitting on chassis.
Without these chassis, trucks are unable to remove containers from the
docks, and a shortage of chassis has contributed to the increase in
dwell times at the ports. The ocean carriers have now agreed to clear
more of these empties from the docks faster, including bringing in
vessels dedicated to empty removal. Based on these new commitments, they
have already cleared out 60,000 containers (measured in TEUs), with
commitments to remove another 28,000. 

**Restoring Balance at our Ports**

Our ports are not just important to bring goods into our country, but
they also help U.S. businesses reach global markets, supporting millions
of small businesses and jobs in communities nationwide. This is
especially true for America’s farmers and the rural communities and
businesses that rely on them. This year, agricultural exports from ports
are up six percent compared to the same period last year, when measured
by weight.

The strength in agricultural exports has been driven by
non-containerized exports, which include items such as corn and rice and
are up eight percent. However, approximately one quarter of agricultural
exports by ship—which includes goods like cotton and fresh fruit— move
by container and those volumes are down 2 percent this year. [Our
work](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/11/09/fact-sheet-the-biden-harris-action-plan-for-americas-ports-and-waterways/)
to reduce congestion at the Port of Savannah—the top containerized
agricultural export port in the country by [number of
containers](https://gaports.com/press-releases/savannah-now-the-top-us-port-for-ag-exports/)—should
help improve the flow of agricultural exports. With five pop-up
container yards located throughout the Southeast, farmers will have more
ways to get commodities via truck or rail to this critical port.

More work is still needed, however, to improve exports out of the
nation’s ports. The rise in cost of shipping between Asia and the West
Coast has meant that it is more profitable for the ocean carriers to
quickly load empty containers or return without a full ship instead of
waiting for loaded containers to get into the port. The share of
exported containers at the two ports that are empty has risen from
around 55 percent in the five years preceding the pandemic to over 70
percent so far this year.  

This problem is affecting more businesses than just farms and raises
questions about the fair treatment of American exporters and importers
in the shipping industry. Today a system of global alliances dominates
global shipping where nine carriers that have been organized into three
alliances
[control](https://ajot.com/premium/ajot-ocean-carrier-alliances-the-tripartite)
about 80 percent of the global shipping market and [95
percent](https://www.itf-oecd.org/sites/default/files/docs/impact-alliances-container-shipping.pdf)
on the critical East-West trade lanes. Alliances only controlled 29
percent of the market as recently as 2011. This lack of competition
leaves American businesses at the mercy of just three alliances.
Retailers are charged fees for their container remaining on the docks,
even if there is no way to move their containers. If the alliances
decide to not accept exports, agricultural exporters will not be able to
fulfill their contracts, and farmers’ perishable products may be left to
rot.

In July, the President called attention to these problems in his
[ Executive Order on Promoting Competition in the American
Economy](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/07/09/executive-order-on-promoting-competition-in-the-american-economy/),
which encouraged the Federal Maritime Commission to vigorously enforce
the prohibition against ocean carriers charging unfair fees to exporters
and importers. The Federal Maritime Commission, which has jurisdiction
to regulate the carriers, should use all of the tools at its disposal to
ensure free and fair competition. It has already launched an inquiry
into excessive shipping fees that are charged when the importer or
exporter cannot plausibly move the container.

The FMC should consider using its other tools, too. For example, while
the alliances between the carriers receive statutory immunity from
antitrust laws, the FMC can challenge those agreements if they “produce
an unreasonable reduction in transportation service or an unreasonable
increase in transportation cost or … substantially lessen competition.”
The Justice Department stands ready to lend the FMC its expertise and
support. In fact, the two agencies have already increased their
collaboration, which is part of the “whole of government” approach to
promoting competition launched by the Executive Order on Competition.

Congress should take action here as well. The FMC needs more resources
to oversee an industry with the size and scope of global shipping. Its
annual budget is just around $30 million. Current laws also do not
require even basic transparency in this sector. For example, there is no
public reporting of the detention and demurrage fees carriers are
charging their customers. Moreover, Congress should provide the FMC an
updated toolbox to protect exporters, importers, and consumers from
unfair practices. There is bipartisan support for doing this, including
a bipartisan bill
[sponsored](https://garamendi.house.gov/media/press-releases/reps-garamendi-johnson-introduce-ocean-shipping-reform-act)
by California Democrat John Garamendi and South Dakota Republican Dusty
Johnson. Their proposed legislation includes good first steps towards
the type of longer-term reform to shipping laws that would strengthen
America’s global competitiveness.

We look forward to working with members of both parties in Congress to
ensure that we have a system of maritime regulation that boosts instead
of reduces American competitiveness for both importers and exporters.
That would complement the bipartisan infrastructure deal that the
President signed into law this week, which is one step in the
President’s broader strategy to build a more durable industrial strategy
that will [bolster America’s global economic
competitiveness](https://www.freep.com/story/opinion/contributors/2021/11/17/opinion-bidens-infrastructure-plan-u-s-can-compete-globally/8642680002/).
Reforms to our shipping laws would help further improve our ability to
get goods in and out of this country more quickly and cost effectively,
and strengthen opportunities for U.S. businesses to connect with global
markets.
