---
tags: blog
date: '2021-11-03'
modified_time: 2022-02-23 18:07:31-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/blog/2021/11/03/improving-and-tracking-supply-chains-link-by-link/
published_time: 2021-11-03 08:30:00-04:00
title: "Improving and Tracking Supply Chains Link by\_Link"
---
 
John D. Porcari, Sameera Fazili, and Liz Reynolds

------------------------------------------------------------------------

“Supply chains,” a term once reserved for business logistics teams, has
now become a household phrase. Whether you’re shopping for a car, a
refrigerator, or a sweater, delays and backlogs have drawn attention to
the largely private sector systems responsible for both making goods and
moving them from factories to shelves and doorsteps. These private
systems are also global, and therefore the global nature of the pandemic
has proven to be a profound disruption to supply chains since the
pandemic first took hold in early 2020. That is why President Biden
called for [greater coordination between our closest trading
partners](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/10/31/fact-sheet-summit-on-global-supply-chain-resilience-to-address-near-term-bottlenecks-and-tackle-long-term-challenges/)
to overcome these collective issues during the G-20 summit this weekend.

While supply chain disruptions remain a challenging side effect of the
COVID-19 pandemic, they now also signal the swift return of strong
consumer demand in the U.S. after one of the deepest recessions on
record. In this blog post, we detail how the Biden-Harris Supply Chain
Disruptions Task Force is measuring and tracking the status of the
leading drivers of disruptions in our transportation and logistics
supply chain, and the steps we are taking to ensure that goods continue
to reach the households and businesses who depend on them.

## **Rising Tides**

Since President Biden took office, nearly 5 million jobs have been
created, the unemployment rate has dropped to below 5 percent, the
number of people collecting unemployment insurance benefits has fallen
by 2.5 million, and food insecurity has declined nearly 40 percent.
President Biden’s economic agenda has propelled the United States to the
fastest economic growth in nearly 40 years over the first three quarters
of this year, and over the pandemic as a whole the U.S. leads G7
countries in its recovery. As a result of this historically strong
recovery, American families have been able to return their overall
spending to pre-pandemic trends. This marks a stark contrast with this
point in previous economic recoveries.

<figure>
<img
src="https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/figure-1-recovery-in-real-personal-consumption-expenditures.png?w=640"
class="wp-image-37087" loading="lazy"
sizes="(max-width: 2147px) 100vw, 2147px"
srcset="https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/figure-1-recovery-in-real-personal-consumption-expenditures.png 2147w, https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/figure-1-recovery-in-real-personal-consumption-expenditures.png?resize=615,409 615w, https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/figure-1-recovery-in-real-personal-consumption-expenditures.png?resize=768,510 768w, https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/figure-1-recovery-in-real-personal-consumption-expenditures.png?resize=1270,844 1270w, https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/figure-1-recovery-in-real-personal-consumption-expenditures.png?resize=1536,1021 1536w, https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/figure-1-recovery-in-real-personal-consumption-expenditures.png?resize=2048,1361 2048w, https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/figure-1-recovery-in-real-personal-consumption-expenditures.png?resize=963,640 963w, https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/figure-1-recovery-in-real-personal-consumption-expenditures.png?resize=1926,1280 1926w, https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/figure-1-recovery-in-real-personal-consumption-expenditures.png?resize=600,400 600w, https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/figure-1-recovery-in-real-personal-consumption-expenditures.png?resize=1038,690 1038w"
width="2147" height="1427" />
</figure>

But while overall consumer spending is almost back to its pre-pandemic
trend, the composition of that spending is quite different. Since the
pandemic, consumer purchases of goods—like furniture, appliances, and
food—has shot past pre-pandemic levels, and spending on services—like
healthcare and vacations—has not yet returned to pre-pandemic trend
levels. As the pandemic recedes, [spending on goods is expected to
decline and spending on services to
rise](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/cea/blog/2021/10/26/bernsteins-beat-throughput-at-the-ports/?utm_source=twitter).
We are already seeing that with spending on goods in September well
below its April 2021 peak, but we still have a ways to go. In the
meantime, our supply chains are moving record volumes of goods – and
being asked to continue to do so. They also must withstand ongoing
disruptions due to the global pandemic, as shipping delays due to the
delta variant has demonstrated. The reshuffling of spending from
services to goods as the public health situation improves will be
critical for reducing disruptions.

<figure>
<img
src="https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/figure-2-real-expenditures-on-goods-and-services.png?w=640"
class="wp-image-37089" loading="lazy"
sizes="(max-width: 2092px) 100vw, 2092px"
srcset="https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/figure-2-real-expenditures-on-goods-and-services.png 2092w, https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/figure-2-real-expenditures-on-goods-and-services.png?resize=615,481 615w, https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/figure-2-real-expenditures-on-goods-and-services.png?resize=768,600 768w, https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/figure-2-real-expenditures-on-goods-and-services.png?resize=1270,993 1270w, https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/figure-2-real-expenditures-on-goods-and-services.png?resize=1536,1200 1536w, https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/figure-2-real-expenditures-on-goods-and-services.png?resize=2048,1601 2048w, https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/figure-2-real-expenditures-on-goods-and-services.png?resize=819,640 819w, https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/figure-2-real-expenditures-on-goods-and-services.png?resize=1638,1280 1638w, https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/figure-2-real-expenditures-on-goods-and-services.png?resize=1038,811 1038w"
width="2092" height="1635" />
</figure>

## **Our Periscope on Supply Chains**

Starting today, we will be publishing a twice monthly dashboard of
metrics to track progress at both the ports of Los Angeles and Long
Beach, and in the economy at large. Here, we explain what we are
tracking and why it matters.

### Ships at Anchor

One of the most visible and widely reported-on indicators that the
demand for goods remains abnormally high is the number of container
ships waiting to dock at the Ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach, which
together handle 40 percent of containerized imports entering the
country. Normally, there are only few container ships “at anchor”
waiting to dock; on Friday, there were 75. This number is partly driven
by consumer demand for goods, and also impacted by delta-related port
and factory shutdowns in Asia.

### Cumulative Import Volume

A closer look shows that in fact more—not less—goods are moving through
our transportation and logistics supply chain, across our ports,
warehouses, and stores. This can be seen by looking at the volume of
containers (as measured by twenty-foot equivalent units or TEUs) coming
into the Ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach (Figure 3). Between January
and September, over 7 million loaded containers were imported, 18
percent higher than over the same period in 2018, which had been the
previous record.

<figure>
<img
src="https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/fig3-supply-chain.png"
class="wp-image-37103" loading="lazy"
sizes="(max-width: 662px) 100vw, 662px"
srcset="https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/fig3-supply-chain.png 662w, https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/fig3-supply-chain.png?resize=615,336 615w"
width="662" height="362" />
</figure>

The Biden-Harris Administration will be closely tracking the cumulative
number of imported containers processed for the rest of the year and
will be highlighting data twice a month. Preliminary data for the first
half of October indicates that the ports imported nearly 380,0000 loaded
containers for a cumulative 8.1 million containers imported this year.
That suggests the ports remain significantly ahead of where they were at
the same point in 2018 and are on pace to break new records by year’s
end.

### Retail Inventories

It’s not enough to move goods into the country—we also need to make sure
that we get them on shelves. The gold-standard U.S. Census Bureau data
suggests that the rest of the supply chain is in fact succeeding in
keeping store shelves stocked. Inflation-adjusted retail inventories
excluding autos grew between the end of August and the end of September.
And at the end of September, they were 4 percent higher than they were a
year ago and are actually above pre-pandemic levels (Figure 4). We have
excluded autos from this measure because the decline in auto inventories
is a result of a global semiconductor shortage affecting the autos
sector worldwide, including in large auto producing countries like
[Germany](https://www.wsj.com/articles/supply-chain-issues-car-chip-shortage-covid-manufacturing-global-economy-11633713877)
and
[Japan](https://www.reuters.com/business/autos-transportation/japans-auto-sales-slump-clouds-prospects-consumption-rebound-2021-11-01/).

Other real time measures of availability of goods in stores—[such as the
IRI Supply
Index](https://indices.iriworldwide.com/covid19/?i=6)—similarly shows
that retail stores’ rates of keeping goods in-stock is 89 percent, near
the pre-COVID level of 91 percent. These higher frequency data measures
also suggest that, as recently as last week, there had been no
deterioration in retail inventories since the Census reported the end of
September retail inventory numbers.

<figure>
<img
src="https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/figure-4-store-shelves-have-recovered-to-pre-pandemic-levels.png?w=640"
class="wp-image-37093" loading="lazy"
sizes="(max-width: 2147px) 100vw, 2147px"
srcset="https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/figure-4-store-shelves-have-recovered-to-pre-pandemic-levels.png 2147w, https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/figure-4-store-shelves-have-recovered-to-pre-pandemic-levels.png?resize=615,346 615w, https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/figure-4-store-shelves-have-recovered-to-pre-pandemic-levels.png?resize=768,432 768w, https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/figure-4-store-shelves-have-recovered-to-pre-pandemic-levels.png?resize=1270,715 1270w, https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/figure-4-store-shelves-have-recovered-to-pre-pandemic-levels.png?resize=1536,864 1536w, https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/figure-4-store-shelves-have-recovered-to-pre-pandemic-levels.png?resize=2048,1152 2048w, https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/figure-4-store-shelves-have-recovered-to-pre-pandemic-levels.png?resize=304,171 304w, https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/figure-4-store-shelves-have-recovered-to-pre-pandemic-levels.png?resize=608,342 608w, https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/figure-4-store-shelves-have-recovered-to-pre-pandemic-levels.png?resize=1200,675 1200w, https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/figure-4-store-shelves-have-recovered-to-pre-pandemic-levels.png?resize=2400,1350 2400w, https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/figure-4-store-shelves-have-recovered-to-pre-pandemic-levels.png?resize=1137,640 1137w, https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/figure-4-store-shelves-have-recovered-to-pre-pandemic-levels.png?resize=1038,584 1038w"
width="2147" height="1208" />
</figure>

We will continue to track cumulative container imports, retail inventory
levels, and in-stock indicators, to help us monitor the ability of this
historically high volume of goods to make their way to warehouses and
store shelves, comparing inventory levels to the pre-pandemic period. 
Throughout this work, we will remain focused on increasing velocity and
fluidity along the goods movement supply chain, working in close
partnership with the private sector. Our commitment to tackle
bottlenecks and inefficiencies is aimed at helping to get goods to the
families and businesses that need them as our economy continues to
recover from the pandemic. We will also continue to closely watch the
rotation from goods to services consumption, as we expect that rotation
to ease pressures on the goods movement supply chain.

<figure>
<img
src="https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/supply-chain-dashboard.jpg"
class="wp-image-37101" loading="lazy"
sizes="(max-width: 1259px) 100vw, 1259px"
srcset="https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/supply-chain-dashboard.jpg 1259w, https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/supply-chain-dashboard.jpg?resize=615,320 615w, https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/supply-chain-dashboard.jpg?resize=768,400 768w, https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/supply-chain-dashboard.jpg?resize=1180,614 1180w, https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/supply-chain-dashboard.jpg?resize=1038,540 1038w"
width="1259" height="655" />
</figure>

## Lifting more Boats

As U.S. consumers continue to purchase goods at a high level, decades of
neglect and underinvestment in our infrastructure have left the links in
our goods movement supply chains struggling to keep up with the rapid
and persistent increase in goods movement that the pandemic has
generated.

This poses a collective action problem in the largely private system
that moves containers of goods from ships to docks to trains and trucks
to get distributed to warehouses, factories, and stores. Which is why
the [President issued a call to
action](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/10/13/fact-sheet-biden-administration-efforts-to-address-bottlenecks-at-ports-of-los-angeles-and-long-beach-moving-goods-from-ship-to-shelf/)
to encourage every link in the goods movement chain to move towards a
24/7 pace to increase the volume and pace of products flowing through
the system. The Ports of Los Angeles and [Long
Beach](https://polb.com/port-info/news-and-press/president-biden-port-leaders-ilwu-meet-on-extended-gate-hours-10-13-2021/)
and International Longshore and Warehouse Union (ILWU) workers joined
together to make the first commitment. [Some of the countries’ largest
companies](https://thehill.com/homenews/administration/576463-white-house-says-walmart-fedex-ups-will-move-to-24-7-model-to-address)
joined in as well—including Walmart, Target, FedEx, UPS, Home Depot, and
Samsung—committing to try a new solution.

Since then, others have also joined in. The state of California stepped
up, [issuing an executive
order](https://www.gov.ca.gov/2021/10/20/governor-newsom-signs-executive-order-to-help-tackle-supply-chain-issues/)
to identify state-owned sites to serve as temporary warehouses and allow
trucks to carry more goods. The City of Long Beach next helped create
more storage space through [a temporary zoning
change](https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2021-10-23/long-beach-eases-container-rules-to-tackle-national-emergency?sref=P6xXtEaF)
to facilitate container storage. Just in the last week, [Union
Pacific](https://www.up.com/media/releases/211025-supply-chain-congestion.htm),
one of the two major railroads responsible for moving goods out of the
port, announced it would operate its station near the ports 24/7 and
offer discounts to customers for each container they moved by rail. In
addition, the U.S. Department of Transportation (USDOT) and the State of
California announced [a $5 billion
partnership](https://www.latimes.com/business/story/2021-10-28/newsom-buttigieg-announce-5-billion-in-loans-to-fix-californias-clogged-ports)
to modernize California’s goods movement chain, strengthening the
capacity and resiliency of the nation’s key import and export hub.  The
result of these combined efforts will be more space available to store
containers and faster paths for containers to exit and enter the ports.
 

These “pull” strategies are important first steps, and we will continue
to do more to energize the private companies that drive the goods
movement chain. This includes supporting [the ports’ decision
to](https://mailchi.mp/polb/san-pedro-bay-ports-announce-new-measure-to-clear-cargo?e=5c932eafdf)
fine containers that stay on the docks too long. The system of loading
boxes off ships, onto docks, onto trains or trucks, and out of the
port’s gates relies on [collaboration between private
companies](https://www.washingtonpost.com/business/interactive/2021/supply-chain-issues/)
including ocean carriers, terminal operators, cargo owners, freight
forwarders and trucking companies. With more rail cars now operating,
there is more capacity to move goods out of the ports. And some of the
largest retailers have committed to move more goods at off-peak hours.
The system is primed to move a historic volume of goods, with the
companies that drive the goods movement chain coming together to take
action.

## Moving Forward

This is precisely what the Biden-Harris [Supply Chain Disruptions Task
Force](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/06/08/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-supply-chain-disruptions-task-force-to-address-short-term-supply-chain-discontinuities/)
has been set up to do: act as an honest broker to encourage companies,
workers, and others to stop finger-pointing and start collaborating.
Many have responded to this call, recognizing that a once-in-a-century
pandemic requires us all to do our part to support our nation’s economic
recovery.  Moving all links in the supply chain simultaneously doesn’t
happen overnight, but the actions being taken by every link in the chain
are making a difference. These actions are starting to clear the
backlogs and break down the barriers that have made it hard to move this
unprecedented volume of goods.

We will also continue to track how well our nation’s transportation and
logistics supply chain is handling this increased flow. We will report
cumulative imports through Los Angeles and Long Beach, retail
inventories, and the number of ships at anchor at the two ports on a
twice-a-month basis through at least the end of the year.

We need to seize this moment to strengthen our country’s future
competitiveness by focusing longer term on [building the
resilience](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/02/24/executive-order-on-americas-supply-chains/)
of our nation’s supply chains. That includes a goods movement chain that
is more resilient, fluid, and can operate at a higher velocity.  For too
long, our country has underinvested in the roads, railways, ports and
projects that propel goods movement. With the Infrastructure Investment
and Jobs Act, we can make the fundamental changes that are long overdue
for our ports, rail and roads. This is how we build back better, with
government bringing workers and businesses together to leverage American
ingenuity to tackle the challenges brought on by a global pandemic.
