---
date: '2023-04-18'
published_time: 2023-04-18 16:07:38-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/04/18/executive-order-on-increasing-access-to-high-quality-care-and-supporting-caregivers/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Executive Order on Increasing Access to High-Quality Care and Supporting\_\
  Caregivers"
---
 
     By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and
the laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered as
follows:   
  
     Section 1.  Policy.  High-quality early care and education and
long-term care are critical to our Nation’s economic growth and economic
security.  Early care and education give young children a strong start
in life, while long-term care helps older Americans and people with
disabilities live, work, and participate in their communities with
dignity.  Access to both types of care is also critical to our national
security because it helps ensure the recruitment, readiness, and
retention of our military service members.    
  
     Throughout this order, early care and education are collectively
referred to as “child care.”  References to “care” that do not specify
the type of care refer to both child care and long-term care. 
References to the “care workforce” refer to individuals and businesses
working in the fields of child care and long-term care.  
  
     A sizeable majority of families and individuals in the United
States who require care cannot access the affordable, high-quality care
they need.  The markets for child care and long-term care for persons
with disabilities and older adults who need support in their homes and
communities fail to deliver enough high-quality care because of a
persistent gap between the costs of providing this care and the prices
families can pay.  High-quality care is labor intensive and requires
skilled workers, and providers have limited ability to reduce costs.  As
a result, even when high-quality care is available, it costs far more
than many families and individuals can afford, causing them to forgo
care altogether, seek lower-quality care options, juggle unconventional
shifts at work, reduce their own paid work hours, drop out of the labor
force, or make other arrangements.  Care expenditures represent a
significant and increasing share of families’ budgets, with child care
prices growing by approximately 26 percent and some types of long-term
care costs growing by over 40 percent in the last decade.  Inadequate
supply is exacerbated by high turnover in the care workforce.  Care
workers — disproportionately women of color — are among the lowest-paid
in the country and often have to rely on public benefits despite working
complex and demanding jobs.  Investments in the care workforce are
foundational to helping to retain care workers and improving health and
educational outcomes.  In recent years, more than half of the long-term
care workforce and nearly 20 percent of the child care workforce turned
over each year.  And the workforce remains 8 percent smaller than before
the COVID-19 pandemic.  
  
     In 2019, more than three in four United States households that
searched for care reported difficulty finding adequate care for their
young children, and roughly the same share of center-based child care
providers turned families away because they lacked enough child care
slots.  Similarly, more than three in four long-term care service
providers have reported not being able to accept new clients, making it
harder for older Americans and people with disabilities to find the care
they need.  Military families consistently cite access to high-quality
child care as an impediment to military spouse employment and family
economic security.  Difficulty accessing care also poses a challenge for
both spouses — and, as data shows, particularly for women in dual
military couples — to continuing their service if they have caregiving
responsibilities.  The need for long-term care is likely to become more
acute as our Nation’s population ages.  By 2060, there will be
approximately twice as many adults over the age of 65 than in 2016, and
projections indicate that there will be around 8 million long-term care
job openings over the next decade.  
  
     Family caregivers provide informal, often unpaid, care to help
loved ones live in their homes and communities, including caring for
aging family members, people with disabilities, and children.  At least
53 million people are family caregivers in the United States — including
5.5 million who are caring for wounded, ill, and injured service members
and veterans — and many face challenges due to lack of support,
training, and opportunities for rest.  Family caregivers include
spouses, parents, siblings, adult and minor children, grandparents, and
other relatives.  Family caregivers reflect the diversity of America’s
communities, and people can assume family caregiving responsibilities at
any stage of life.  Without adequate resources, family caregiving can
affect caregivers’ own physical and emotional health and well-being and
contribute to financial strain.  These negative consequences are felt
most acutely by women, who make up nearly two-thirds of family
caregivers and drop out of the workforce at a rate three times higher
than men.   
  
     It is the policy of my Administration to enable families —
including our military and veteran families — to have access to
affordable, high-quality care and to have support and resources as
caregivers themselves.  It is also the policy of my Administration to
ensure that the care workforce is supported, valued, and paid well.
 Additionally, care workers should have the free and fair choice to join
a union.  
  
     The Congress must provide the transformative investments necessary
to increase access to high-quality child care — including preschool and
Head Start — and long-term care services, as well as high-quality,
well-paying jobs that reflect the value the care workforce provides to
families and communities.  Such investments include removing barriers
and providing the funding needed for Tribal Nations to effectively
provide high-quality child care and long-term care.  
  
     Nearly every other advanced country makes greater public
investments in care than the United States.  Investing in care is an
investment in the future of America’s families, workforce, and
economy.  
  
     While the Congress must make significant new investments to give
families in this country more breathing room when it comes to care,
executive departments and agencies (agencies) must do what they can
within their existing authorities to boost the supply of high-quality
early care and education and long-term care and to provide support for
family caregivers.  Through this order, I direct agencies to make all
efforts to improve jobs and support for caregivers, increase access to
affordable care for families, and provide more care options for
families.  
  
     Sec. 2.  Increasing Compensation and Improving Job Quality for
Family Caregivers, Early Educators, and Long-Term Care Workers.  (a)  To
increase compensation and benefits for early childhood educators and
long-term care professionals who are providing federally funded
services:  
  
          (i)    the Secretary of Health and Human Services, through the
Administrator for the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS),
shall issue guidance to States on ways to use enhanced funding to better
connect home- and community-based workers who provide services to
Medicaid beneficiaries;  
  
          (ii)   the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall
implement strategies to encourage comparability of compensation and
benefits between staff employed by Head Start grant recipients and
elementary school teachers;  
  
          (iii)  the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall expand
efforts to improve care workers’ access to health insurance; and  
  
          (iv)   the Secretary of Education shall use grant notices for
the Child Care Access Means Parents in School (CCAMPIS) program to
encourage grantees to improve quality in funded programs, including by
increasing compensation and providing support services for early
childhood educators who serve children of students at CCAMPIS colleges
using Federal and non-Federal funding as appropriate;  
  
          (v)    the Department of the Treasury shall conduct outreach
on the Saver’s Match credit, and the Department of Commerce shall
conduct — and the Small Business Administration is encouraged to
consider conducting — outreach on potential Federal resources available
to assist small businesses in offering retirement plans, including a
per-employee credit of up to $1,000, as provided in the SECURE 2.0 Act
of 2022 (Division T of Public Law 117-328), in order to ensure that the
care workforce, including individuals and small businesses, are aware of
Federal retirement assistance for which they may be eligible.  
  
     (b)  To improve working conditions and job quality in federally
assisted child care and long-term care programs, encourage providers to
establish incentives to recruit and retain workers, help prevent
burnout, make it as easy as possible for care workers to access
behavioral health services, and thereby improve the care that
individuals receive, the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall:  
           
          (i)    consider additional actions — such as providing
guidance, technical assistance, and provider and resident education —
and rulemaking on nursing home staffing transparency to promote adequate
staffing at nursing homes, building on the Department of Health and
Human Services’ efforts to propose minimum standards for staffing
adequacy at nursing homes;  
  
          (ii)   consider additional actions to reduce nursing staff
turnover in nursing facilities and improve retention of those staff,
advancing the Department of Health and Human Services’ efforts to
measure and adjust payments based on staff turnover; and  
  
          (iii)  implement strategies to expand mental health support
for the care workforce, including early childhood providers supported
through the Child Care and Development Fund (CCDF) and Head Start.  
  
     (c)  To expand training pathways and professional learning
opportunities to increase job quality, improve quality of care, and
attract new entrants into the care workforce, the Secretary of Labor and
the Secretary of Education, in consultation with the Secretary of Health
and Human Services, shall:  
  
          (i)    encourage recipients of Federal financial assistance to
expand opportunities for early childhood educators and long-term care
professionals through community college programming, career and
technical education, Registered Apprenticeship, pre-apprenticeships
leading to Registered Apprenticeship, and other job training and
professional development;  
  
          (ii)   make available innovative funding opportunities,
develop and evaluate demonstration projects for care training and
educational attainment, and provide technical assistance to State,
local, and Tribal partners to improve job quality for care occupations;
and  
  
          (iii)  develop partnerships with key stakeholders, including
State, local, Tribal, and territorial governments; unions and labor
organizations; State and local workforce development boards;
institutions of higher education (including community colleges,
Historically Black Colleges and Universities, Tribal Colleges and
Universities, and Minority Serving Institutions); aging and disability
networks; and national- and community-based organizations that focus on
care (including professional membership organizations).  
  
     (d)  To support family caregivers of beneficiaries of Federal
health care programs and services, and in conjunction with implementing
the 2022 National Strategy to Support Family Caregivers:  
  
          (i)    the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall,
consistent with the criteria set out in section 1115A(b)(2) of the
Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1315a(b)(2)), consider whether to select
for testing by the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation an
innovative new health care payment and service delivery model focused on
dementia care that would include family caregiver supports such as
respite care;  
  
          (ii)   the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall
consider how better to evaluate and clearly set expectations for family
caregivers in the Acute Hospital Care at Home program, which allows
hospitals to treat in their homes those who would otherwise be hospital
inpatients;  
  
          (iii)  the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall take
steps to ensure that hospitals are actively involving family caregivers
in the discharge planning process, consistent with CMS condition of
participation discharge planning requirements, including by promoting
best practices such as partnerships with community-based organizations
and using resources from the Administration for Community Living and the
Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality;  
  
          (iv)   the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall
increase beneficiary communications and support family caregivers by
increasing promotion of the option for Medicare beneficiaries to choose
to give family caregivers access to their Medicare information via
1-800-MEDICARE and the State health insurance assistance program
networks;  
  
          (v)    the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall consider
issuing a notice of proposed rulemaking by the end of this fiscal year
that would make any appropriate modifications to eligibility criteria
for the Program of Comprehensive Assistance for Family Caregivers, which
provides services and benefits, including a monthly stipend, for
eligible caregivers of veterans who sustained a serious injury or
illness in the line of duty; and  
  
          (vi)   the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall develop and
implement a pilot program to offer psychotherapy via video telehealth to
family caregivers within the Program of Comprehensive Assistance for
Family Caregivers to improve their access to mental health services.  
  
     (e)  To improve and expand opportunities through AmeriCorps to
encourage more individuals to enter early learning careers, the Chief
Executive Officer of AmeriCorps is encouraged to consider:  
  
          (i)   expanding access to Segal AmeriCorps Education Awards,
which AmeriCorps members can use to pay for education and training or
reduce their student debt; providing loan forbearance for AmeriCorps
members involved in early learning; and providing other benefits to
supplement national service activities that support early learning;
and  
  
          (ii)  prioritizing applications that propose to implement or
expand high-quality programs focused on early learning and prioritizing
projects intended to prepare AmeriCorps members and AmeriCorps Seniors
volunteers to enter early learning careers.  
  
     (f)  To improve jobs of domestic child care and long-term care
workers:  
  
          (i)    the Secretary of Labor shall create and publish in
multiple languages, as appropriate, compliance assistance and best
practices materials — such as sample employment agreements for domestic
child care and long-term care workers and their employers — to promote
fair workplaces and ensure the parties know their rights and
responsibilities, and shall identify other means to promote employers’
adoption of best practices;  
  
          (ii)   the Secretary of Labor shall work with community and
other local partners to expand culturally and linguistically appropriate
community outreach and education efforts to domestic child care and
long-term care workers in order to combat their exploitation; and  
  
          (iii)  the Chair of the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission is encouraged to work with the Attorney General, the
Secretary of Labor, and the Secretary of Homeland Security to develop
materials addressing the employment rights of non-citizen domestic child
care and long-term care workers who are legally eligible to work.  
  
     (g)  To improve data and information on the care workforce:  
  
          (i)    the Secretary of Labor shall conduct and publish an
analysis of early childhood and home care workers’ pay in comparison to
the pay of other workers with similar levels of training and skill;  
  
          (ii)   the Secretary of Labor shall issue guidance to help
States and localities conduct their own analyses of comparable pay rates
for care workers in their respective jurisdictions; and  
  
          (iii)  the Secretary of Labor and the Secretary of Health and
Human Services shall, in consultation with relevant agencies and
external experts and organizations, jointly conduct a review to identify
gaps in knowledge about the home- and community-based workforce serving
people with disabilities and older adults; identify and evaluate
existing data sources; and identify opportunities to expand analyses,
supplement data, or launch new efforts to provide important data on the
home- and community-based care workforce and ensure equity for people
with disabilities and older adults.  The Secretaries shall publicly
release the findings and recommendations of this review no later than
April 2024.  
  
     Sec. 3.  Making Care More Accessible and Affordable for Families. 
(a)  To increase access to affordable, high-quality child care and
long-term care for workers delivering federally assisted projects:  
  
          (i)    Agencies shall identify and issue guidance on which
agency discretionary, formula, and program-specific funds can be used
for child care and long-term care as a supportive service for workers
who are being trained for and working on federally funded projects, and
in doing so shall consider agency funds made available by the bipartisan
Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (Public Law 117-58); Public Law
117-169, commonly referred to as the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022;
and division A of Public Law 117-167, known as the Creating Helpful
Incentives to Produce Semiconductors (CHIPS) Act of 2022.  
  
          (ii)   With respect to the agency funds identified in
subsection (a)(i) of this section:  
  
               (A)  Agencies shall consider requiring, where
appropriate, applicants for Federal job-creation or workforce
development funds to provide affordable, accessible, safe, and reliable
child care and long-term care for workers carrying out federally
assisted projects (including both construction and operating phases
where applicable), or shall consider preferencing applicants that use
the funds for this purpose or encouraging applicants to use funds for
this purpose.  Agencies shall provide implementation guidance to
relevant program staff and collaborate with the Department of Labor to
identify potential support for these actions, including technical
assistance for guidance and funding opportunities.  
  
               (B)  Agencies shall consider providing technical
assistance to help funding recipients provide access to child care and
long-term care as a supportive service and to connect funding recipients
with potential partners, including care associations, community-based
organizations, Registered Apprenticeship and pre-apprenticeship
programs, and labor unions.  
  
               (C)  In cases where child care or long-term care is
required or encouraged, agencies shall consider collecting information
from funding recipients on whether and how they will provide access to
child care and long-term care, and how many workers (including
apprentices and pre-apprentices) would be affected.  
  
          (iii)  The Secretary of Labor and the Secretary of Health and
Human Services, in consultation with the Secretary of Commerce, shall
support the efforts outlined in subsection (a) of this section by
issuing guidance and providing technical assistance with best practices
and models for how to provide supportive services, including child care
and long-term care.  
  
     (b)  To lower child care costs for families eligible for Federal
programs, the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall:  
  
          (i)    consider issuing regulations to pursue policies to
reduce child care costs for families benefiting from CCDF;  
  
          (ii)   identify potential opportunities to reduce barriers to
eligibility for Head Start and CCDF;  
  
          (iii)  encourage States, through all available avenues, to
increase the use of Temporary Assistance for Needy Families funds for
basic assistance and work supports for families — including access to
child care — and to spend more funds on cash assistance for families;
and  
  
          (iv)   identify other potential strategies to make child care
and Head Start more accessible for those families most in need.  
  
     (c)  To help more Federal employees access affordable care:   
  
          (i)    the Director of the Office of Personnel Management
shall consider establishing criteria that support equitable and
accessible employee participation in child care programs, to include
agencies’ adoption of income thresholds that are aligned with increasing
costs of child care;  
  
          (ii)   the Director of the Office of Personnel Management
shall conduct a review of child care subsidy policy and agency program
data to determine the effectiveness of current child care subsidies
within the Federal Government;  
  
          (iii)  the heads of agencies are encouraged to expand employee
access to child care services through Federal child care centers, child
care subsidies, or contracted care providers; and  
  
          (iv)   the Department of Defense shall take steps to enhance
recruitment and retention of the Department’s child development program
workers and to improve the affordability of child care for service
members by September 2023, in addition to its ongoing efforts as part of
the Fourteenth Quadrennial Review of Military Compensation to assess how
child care costs impact the ability of the military to attract and
retain its workforce.  
  
     Sec. 4.  Expanding Options for Families by Building the Supply of
Care.  (a)  To provide families with more options for high-quality
long-term, home-, and community-based care and early learning
services:  
  
          (i)    The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall
consider rulemaking to improve access to home- and community-based
services under Medicaid.  As part of any such rulemaking, the Secretary
shall consider taking steps to support provider participation in
Medicaid home- and community-based programs.  
  
          (ii)   The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall issue
policies that would support child care providers to give families more
options to access high-quality child care providers, and shall update
payment practices to improve provider stability and supply.  
  
          (iii)  The Secretary of Education shall update a guide for
schools and districts to expand high-quality early learning programming
using Federal funds so that more preschoolers are fully prepared to
succeed in school.  
  
          (iv)   The Secretary of Education and the Secretary of Health
and Human Services shall identify and disseminate evidence-based
practices for serving children with disabilities and their families in
high-quality early childhood education programs, including Head Start. 
The Secretaries shall also take steps to ensure that services are
inclusive of children with disabilities and their families; highlight
any resources that are available to aid in that effort, including for
preschool-aged children with disabilities under section 619 of the
Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) and for infants and
toddlers with disabilities and their families under Part C of the IDEA;
and provide information to support all early childhood programs in
meeting their obligations under section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of
1973 and the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990.  
  
          (v)    The Director of the Bureau of Consumer Financial
Protection is encouraged to consider developing financial guidance
resources that support families during their care planning.  
  
          (vi)   The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall take
steps to streamline processes for Tribes to use CCDF and Head Start
funding to construct and improve facilities, including facilities that
are jointly funded.  
  
          (vii)  The 12 agencies that signed the October 2022 Memorandum
of Agreement to implement Public Law 102-477 (the “Tribal 477 Program”)
shall increase the effectiveness of Tribal employment and training
programs to ensure child care can be used as a support for families by
reducing and streamlining administrative requirements, including through
consolidation of budgeting, reporting, and auditing systems.  
  
     (b)  To expand options for quality home- and community-based
services to veterans:  
  
          (i)    The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall consider
expanding the existing Veteran Directed Care Program — which provides
veterans who need help with daily living with a budget to spend on home-
and community-based services including personal care services — to all
Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Centers by the end of Fiscal Year
2024, and shall consider developing an implementation plan for this
expansion by June 2023.  
  
          (ii)   The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall consider
designing and evaluating a pilot program in no fewer than five veteran
sites or in five States for a new Co-Employer Option for delivering
veteran home health services.  Features of the program may include
allowing veterans to choose who provides their care and to determine
when and how that care is delivered, and connecting veterans with a
third-party agency that would help coordinate administrative tasks and
act as an intermediary between veterans and their home health workers.
 Should the Department of Veterans Affairs implement this pilot program,
it shall provide an implementation plan — including cost estimates and
evaluation strategy — to the President, through the Assistant to the
President for Domestic Policy, before August 31, 2023.  
  
          (iii)  The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall consider
expanding the Home-Based Primary Care program by adding 75 new
interdisciplinary teams to provide care to veterans in their homes.  
  
     (c)  To increase the supply of providers and options for families
by encouraging greater private financial protection, support, and
technical assistance for care providers:  
  
          (i)    the Secretary of the Treasury shall consider providing
information to and sharing industry best practices with Community
Development Financial Institutions to facilitate capital flows and
support to care providers;  
  
          (ii)   the Administrator of the Small Business Administration
is encouraged to consider publishing a guide on how individuals in the
care workforce may start and sustainably operate care businesses locally
and through Small Business Administration programming; and  
  
          (iii)  the Director of the Bureau of Consumer Financial
Protection is encouraged to consider issuing guidance addressing
financial institution practices that may increase the burden on the care
workforce, discourage their work, and harm their financial well-being.  
  
     (d)  To build the capacity of local communities to better
coordinate and deliver care:  
  
          (i)   the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall review
existing policies to identify opportunities — including among Tribal
communities — to increase the capacity of community care entities by
providing operational support to these networks of providers; and  
  
          (ii)  the Secretary of Agriculture shall use the Rural
Partners Network and issue guidance developed in partnership with the
Secretary of Health and Human Services to promote opportunities —
including by hosting workshops — to increase access to child care and
long-term care in rural and Tribal communities.  
  
     (e)  To make the delivery and design of Federal care assistance and
programs work better for families, the care workforce, and people
seeking care, the Secretaries of the Treasury, Defense, Agriculture,
Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Veterans Affairs shall
consider — and the Administrator of the Small Business Administration is
encouraged to consider — prioritizing engagement with parents,
guardians, and other relatives with care responsibilities; individuals
receiving long-term care; State and local care experts; care providers
and workers; employers; and labor unions.  
  
     Sec. 5.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:  
  
          (i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department
or agency, or the head thereof; or  
  
          (ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of
Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or
legislative proposals.  
  
     (b)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.  
  
     (c)  Where not already specified, independent agencies are
encouraged to comply with the requirements of this order.  
  
     (d)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right
or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity
by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.  
 

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

THE WHITE HOUSE,  
 April 18, 2023.
