---
date: '2023-04-28'
published_time: 2023-04-28 13:05:13-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/04/28/a-proclamation-on-jewish-american-heritage-month-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Jewish American Heritage Month,\_2023"
---
 
     This month, we celebrate the enduring heritage of Jewish Americans,
whose values, culture, and contributions have shaped our character as a
Nation.  For generations, the story of the Jewish people — one of
resilience, faith, and hope in the face of adversity, prejudice and
persecution — has been woven into the fabric of our Nation’s story.  It
has driven us forward in our ongoing march for justice, equality, and
freedom as we recommit to upholding the principles of our Nation’s
founding and realizing the promise of America for all Americans.

     For centuries, Jewish refugees fleeing oppression and
discrimination abroad have sailed to our shores in search of sanctuary.
 Early on, they fought for religious freedom, helping define one of the
bedrock principles upon which America was built.  Union soldiers
celebrated Passover in the midst of the Civil War.  Jewish suffragists
fought to expand freedom and justice.  And Jewish faith leaders linked
arms with giants of the Civil Rights Movement to demand equal rights for
all. 

     Jewish Americans continue to enrich every part of American life as
educators and entrepreneurs, athletes and artists, scientists and
entertainers, public officials and activists, labor and community
leaders, diplomats and military service members, public health heroes,
and more.  Last year, I was proud to host the White House’s first-ever
Jewish New Year reception.  During our Hanukkah celebration, I was also
proud to unveil the first-ever permanent menorah at the White House —
reinforcing the permanency of Jewish culture in America.  In my own
life, the Jewish community has been a tremendous source of friendship,
guidance, and strength through seasons of pain and seasons of joy.

     But there is also a dark side to the celebrated history of the
Jewish people — a history marked by genocide, pogrom, and persecution —
with a through line that continues in the record rise of antisemitism
today.  We have witnessed violent attacks on synagogues, bricks thrown
through windows of Jewish businesses, swastikas defacing cars and
cemeteries, Jewish students harassed on college campuses, and Jews
wearing religious attire beaten and shot on streets.  Antisemitic
conspiracy theories are rampant online, and celebrities are spouting
antisemitic hate.

     These acts are unconscionable and despicable.  They carry with them
terrifying echoes of the worst chapters in human history.  Not only are
they a strike against Jews, but they are also a threat to other minority
communities and a stain on the soul of our Nation.  I decided to run for
President after I saw this hatred on display during the rally in
Charlottesville, when neo-Nazis marched from the shadows spewing the
same antisemitic bile that was heard in Germany in the 1930s.  These
incidents remind us that hate never truly goes away — it only hides
until it is given just a little oxygen.  It is our obligation to ensure
that hate can have no safe harbor in America and to protect the sacred
ideals enshrined in our Constitution:  religious freedom, equality,
dignity, and respect.  That is the promise of America.

     I have made clear that I will not remain silent in the face of this
antisemitic venom, vitriol, and violence.  During my first year in
office, I signed the bipartisan COVID-19 Hate Crimes Act to help State
and local law enforcement better identify and respond to hate crimes.  I
appointed Deborah Lipstadt, a historian of the Holocaust, as the first
Ambassador-level Special Envoy to Monitor and Combat Antisemitism.  And
my Administration also secured the largest increase in funding ever for
the physical security of nonprofits, including synagogues, Jewish
Community Centers, and Jewish day schools.  

     At my direction, we are also developing the first national strategy
to counter antisemitism that outlines comprehensive actions the Federal
Government will undertake and that reflects input from over a thousand
Jewish community stakeholders, faith and civil rights leaders, State and
local officials, and more.  This strategy will help combat antisemitism
online and offline, including in schools and on campuses; improve
security to prevent antisemitic incidents and attacks; and build
cross-community solidarity against antisemitism and other forms of
hate. 

     But governance alone cannot root out antisemitism and hate.  All
Americans — including business and community leaders, educators,
students, athletes, entertainers, and influencers — must help confront
bigotry in all its forms.  We must each do our part to put an end to
antisemitism and hatred and create a culture of respect in our
workplaces, schools, and homes and across social media.

     This Jewish American Heritage Month, let us join hands across
faiths, races, and backgrounds to make clear that evil, hate, and
antisemitism will not prevail.  Let us honor the timeless values,
contributions, and culture of Jewish Americans, who carry our Nation
forward each and every day.  And let us rededicate ourselves to the
sacred work of creating a more inclusive tomorrow, protecting the
diversity that defines who we are as a Nation, and preserving the
dignity of every human being — here at home and around the world.  

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim May
2023 as Jewish American Heritage Month.  I call upon all Americans to
learn more about the heritage and contributions of Jewish Americans and
to observe this month with appropriate programs, activities, and
ceremonies.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-eighth
day of April, in the year two thousand twenty‑three, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh.  

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
