---
date: '2023-04-28'
modified_time: 2023-05-01 15:05:48-04:00
published_time: 2023-04-28 13:12:38-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/04/28/a-proclamation-on-asian-american-native-hawaiian-and-pacific-islander-heritage-month-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander Heritage\
  \ Month,\_2023"
---
 
    During Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander
Heritage Month, our Nation celebrates the diversity of cultures, breadth
of achievement, and remarkable contributions of these communities; of
brave immigrants who, motivated by the promise of possibilities, picked
up their lives and found new homes here; of native peoples who have
stewarded these lands since time immemorial; and of community leaders
shaping a brighter future for us all.  Throughout our history, they have
represented the bigger story of who we are as Americans and embodied the
truth that our diversity is our strength as a Nation. 

     Asian Americans, Native Hawaiians, and Pacific Islanders (AA and
NHPIs) represent us at every level of government, including Vice
President Kamala Harris, the first Vice President of South Asian
descent; Ambassador Katherine Tai, the first Asian American United
States Trade Representative; and Dr. Arati Prabhakar, who is the first
South Asian American to lead the White House Office of Science and
Technology Policy.  Earlier this year, I was also proud to nominate
Julie Su to serve as the Secretary of Labor.  From historic
Oscar-winning performances in film to achievements across business,
culture, sports, and civil rights, AA and NHPIs shape and strengthen the
fabric of this Nation.  We see their contributions as business owners
and caregivers as well as their service in the military and on the
frontlines during the COVID-19 pandemic. 

     Despite the immeasurable ways AA and NHPIs enrich this country, we
continue to see persistent racism, harassment, and hate crimes against
these communities.  Attacks on Asian American women and elders have left
too many families afraid to leave their homes and too many loved ones
traumatized.  The devastating murder of eight victims in Atlanta, six of
whom were women of Asian descent, pierced the soul of this Nation.  This
year, after the shootings in Monterey Park and Half Moon Bay, both the
Vice President and I visited California to honor the victims; grieve
with the community; and witness their resilience, heroism, and courage. 
Hate must have no safe harbor in America, and every person deserves to
be treated with dignity and respect.  To address the rising tide of
anti-Asian violence, I signed the bipartisan COVID-19 Hate Crimes Act
into law — which included the Jabara-Heyer No HATE Act, making it easier
for Americans to report hate crimes and to help State, local, and Tribal
law enforcement agencies better track these hateful acts.

     This year I was proud to launch the first-ever National Strategy to
Advance Equity, Justice, and Opportunity for Asian American, Native
Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander Communities.  This plan reflects my
Administration’s commitment to improving the lives of AA and NHPIs —
ensuring that the census collects accurate data so they are properly
reflected when new policy is made; advancing safety, inclusion, and
belonging for AA and NHPI communities; promoting language access and
preservation; advancing AA and NHPI representation in the Federal
workforce; and striving toward an equitable COVID-19 recovery.  The
White House was proud to host celebrations such as Diwali, Eid al-Fitr,
Lunar New Year, Nowruz, and Vesak so we could celebrate with diverse AA
and NHPI communities from across the Nation. 

     We are also creating economic opportunities for AA and NHPI workers
and business owners.  The Small Business Administration has distributed
nearly $16 billion in loans to AA and NHPI entrepreneurs since I took
office.  I was proud to sign Executive Orders to ensure the Federal
workforce reflects the diversity of the American people.  Our efforts
are paying off.   In the Asian American community, unemployment has
fallen by more than half since I took office, and as of 2021,
entrepreneurship had risen at the fastest rate in over a decade.

     As we make progress to advance equity and opportunity, we know our
work is far from done.  To help more AA and NHPIs see themselves in the
story of America, I signed historic legislation bringing us closer to
creating the National Museum of Asian Pacific American History and
Culture.  To honor the traditional practices and ancestral pathways of
Pacific Island voyagers, I expanded protections for the Pacific Remote
Islands.  To help Americans reckon with and learn from more shameful
chapters of our history, I signed into law the Amache National Historic
Site Act, which establishes a memorial to the 10,000 Japanese Americans
who were unjustly incarcerated at Amache during World War II.  Facing
past wrongs helps us build a more just and equitable future.

     This country’s fundamental promise holds that every person is
created equal and deserves to be treated equally throughout their lives.
 We have never fully lived up to that ideal, but we have never walked
away from it either.  This month, we renew our work to put the American
Dream within reach of all people, and we celebrate the vibrancy,
contributions, and future of AA and NHPI communities across America.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim May
2023 as Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander Heritage
Month.  I call upon all Americans to learn more about the history of AA
and NHPIs and to observe this month with appropriate programs and
activities.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
twenty-eighth day of April, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-three, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-seventh.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
