---
date: '2023-04-21'
modified_time: 2023-04-21 16:12:04-04:00
published_time: 2023-04-21 16:12:03-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/04/21/a-proclamation-on-national-crime-victims-week-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Crime Victims\u2019 Week,\_2023"
---
 
     Every person deserves to feel safe in their home, school,
workplace, and community.  Yet each year, millions of Americans fall
victim to acts of violence, theft, fraud, and other crimes.  Often, the
pain and trauma can have long-term impacts.  During National Crime
Victims’ Rights Week, we recommit to the work of preventing crime,
supporting victims as they heal, and holding offenders accountable.

     Beyond the physical, psychological, and emotional scars, victims
and their families too often bear the economic burden of the crimes they
suffered — such as lost income, medical bills, or expenses for temporary
housing.  As a United States Senator, I was proud to support the Victims
of Crime Act in 1984, which created a Crime Victims Fund using fines
from Federal prosecutions to directly compensate victims and finance
victim assistance services.  In recent years, the fund’s balance
declined significantly, so I signed a bill in 2021 to rebuild it and
ensure that victims can access these critical resources.  
  
     Last year, I also reauthorized and strengthened the Violence
Against Women Act (VAWA), which I first wrote as a United States Senator
more than 30 years ago to change the laws and culture around the scourge
of domestic and sexual violence in America.  For decades, this law has
supported shelters and rape crisis centers; funded housing and legal
assistance for survivors of abusive relationships, sexual assault, and
stalking; and helped train law enforcement agencies and courts to make
the justice system more responsive to survivors’ needs.

     As President, I increased funding for VAWA to its highest level so
that we can hold more offenders accountable and allow more victims to
access trauma-informed care — especially victims from underserved
communities, including those from the LGBTQI+ community and rural areas.
 Tribal courts will now be able to exercise jurisdiction over non-Native
perpetrators of sexual assault, child abuse, and sex trafficking.  The
law also enables victims to take people who disseminate their intimate
images without consent to court, and it provides training for law
enforcement, prosecutors, and victim service providers in addressing
online abuse and cyberstalking. 

     I signed into law the COVID-19 Hate Crimes and Khalid
Jabara-Heather Heyer NO HATE Acts, which help State, local, and Tribal
law enforcement agencies better track and prosecute hate-fueled acts of
violence against people from marginalized groups, including by
establishing state-run reporting hotlines for victims of hate crimes. 
We also made lynching a Federal hate crime for the first time in
American history with the Emmett Till Antilynching Act, giving
prosecutors more power to pursue perpetrators of these vile acts.  I
also hosted the United We Stand Summit, convening civic, faith,
philanthropic, and business leaders to prevent and respond to hate
crimes, and to help survivors of hate crimes and their communities heal
from these tragic events.

     While my Administration continues to take historic action to reduce
gun crime, we are also taking action to help survivors of gun violence
and families that have lost loved ones to this public health epidemic.
 Last June, I was proud to sign the Bipartisan Safer Communities Act,
the most sweeping gun safety law in nearly three decades.  Among other
steps, this law helps keep guns out of the hands of dating partners
convicted of violent crimes and provides over a billion dollars to
address the youth mental health crisis in America, especially trauma
experienced by survivors of gun violence.  In March 2023, I signed an
Executive Order directing key members of my Cabinet to submit a proposal
for improving Federal support for communities and individuals impacted
by gun violence.

     Supporting crime victims also requires building trust between the
public and law enforcement.  When someone falls victim to a crime, first
responders should have the resources they need to ensure victims feel
heard, valued, and supported.  We have provided States with over $10
billion to improve law enforcement training, fund community violence
interventions, purchase necessary equipment like body-worn cameras,
clear court backlogs, and support crime victims.  My Safer America Plan
calls for an additional $37 billion to prevent crime, reduce gun
violence, and create a fairer justice system — including by hiring
100,000 more officers for safe, effective, and accountable community
policing, consistent with the standards of my policing Executive Order,
which will also help strengthen public trust in law enforcement.

     This week and every week, let us all commit to doing our part to
help prevent crimes and to provide survivors with the resources they
need to heal, pursue justice, and emerge stronger.  If you or a loved
one are a victim of crime, I encourage you to visit
www.Crimevictims.gov.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim April
23 through April 29, 2023, as National Crime Victims’ Rights Week.  I
call upon all Americans to observe this week by participating in events
that raise awareness of victims’ rights and services and by volunteering
to serve and support victims in their time of need.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
twenty-first day of April, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-three, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-seventh.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
