---
date: '2023-04-28'
published_time: 2023-04-28 13:25:03-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/04/28/a-proclamation-on-national-building-safety-month-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Building Safety Month,\_2023"
---
 
     Modern building codes help to ensure that our homes, schools,
workplaces, and gathering spots are safely constructed and secure,
keeping the power on, our country strong, and our lives moving forward.
 During National Building Safety Month, we recommit to helping every
community in America make all of its structures safer, more sustainable,
and more resilient for the future.

     From planning and design to construction and renovation, many
buildings are safer today than they were decades ago.  But nearly
two-thirds of Americans live in communities that have not yet adopted
the latest building codes, which are designed to avoid damages and keep
emerging threats like climate change from further devastating
communities with increasingly powerful fires, floods, and storms.  We
need to do more to help everyone prepare for and prevent disasters; to
promote building safety; and to support our too-often overlooked
engineers, construction workers, and code enforcement inspectors, who do
so much every day to keep Americans safe.

     My Administration has taken major steps in that direction.  Last
year, we launched a new National Initiative to Advance Building Codes,
designed to help State, local, Tribal, and territorial governments adopt
the latest building standards.  With our once-in-a-generation
infrastructure law, we are rebuilding the Nation’s roads, bridges,
ports, water systems, and more; we are investing over $50 billion to
weatherize American homes and to help protect communities against
droughts, heat, and floods; and we are replacing toxic lead pipes in 10
million homes and 400,000 schools or child care centers so every
American can turn on the faucet and drink clean water.  We are also
investing in training workers to meet and enforce new standards.

     The Inflation Reduction Act, meanwhile, is America’s biggest-ever
investment in fighting climate change, providing $1 billion to help
States and localities adopt building energy codes that reduce greenhouse
gas emissions.  It invests another nearly $1 billion to improve energy
efficiency and indoor air quality in federally-supported housing and
make these properties more resilient to climate impacts.  At the same
time, the Federal Emergency Management Agency has helped rebuild
communities devastated by floods, fires, tornadoes, and hurricanes while
incentivizing the use of low-carbon materials when rebuilding.  Across
the board, we have committed to sending 40 percent of the benefits of
certain Federal investments — including investments in clean energy,
energy efficiency, affordable housing, and pollution reduction — to
disadvantaged communities, which too often have been left out and left
behind.

     Regularly-updated building codes and tough enforcement are key to
safety — but we can each do our part to build a stronger, more resilient
America.  To keep your homes safe, we urge all Americans to change the
batteries in your smoke alarms; to regularly check that your appliances,
vents, plumbing, and electrical systems are working; and to keep an eye
out for mold and pests that can make loved ones sick.  If you live in
wildfire country, find time to clear the leaves and debris from around
your home.  While there are few things more proudly American than
do-it-yourself renovations, make sure your work is in line with local
requirements designed to save lives or hire qualified contractors to do
it for you.  Finally, we urge everyone to support their local code
enforcement inspectors and to give them the respect and thanks they
deserve for keeping us safe and making all our communities more
resilient.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim May
2023 as National Building Safety Month.  I encourage citizens,
government agencies, businesses, nonprofits, and other interested groups
to join in activities that raise awareness about building safety.  I
also call on all Americans to learn more about how they can contribute
to building safety at home, at work, and in their communities.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-eighth
day of April, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
