---
date: '2023-04-27'
published_time: 2023-04-27 11:41:14-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/04/27/a-proclamation-on-workers-memorial-day-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Workers Memorial Day,\_2023"
---
 
    A record 160 million Americans get up and go to work every day to
provide for their families, build their communities, and earn a piece of
the American Dream.  But too many are exposed to unsafe working
conditions, injured, or even killed in preventable accidents on the job.
 And millions of firefighters, police officers, and other first
responders put their lives on the line as a matter of course to keep the
rest of us safe.  We need to have their backs.  On Workers Memorial Day,
we honor every American worker who has sacrificed their own life or
well-being; we stand with the unions that fight for them every day; and
we recommit to protecting the fundamental right to a safe and healthy
workplace.

     I ran for office to restore the backbone of America — the middle
class — and I am proud to be the most pro-labor President in history.
 The middle class built this country, and union workers built the middle
class.  Nearly every law protecting workers’ rights passed because
unions fought for it.  That includes the Occupational Safety and Health
Act, which took effect 51 years ago today, laying the groundwork for
foundational health, safety, and whistleblower protections that continue
to protect workers nationwide.

     My Administration has built on that legacy from the start, securing
$200 million in American Rescue Plan funding to help keep workers safe
and guarantee paid sick leave during the COVID‑19 pandemic.  We
protected pensions for millions of workers and retirees so that
hardworking Americans can enjoy the healthy and stable retirement they
worked their whole lives to secure.  The historic infrastructure,
manufacturing, and clean energy laws that I signed as part of our
Investing in America agenda are spurring billions of dollars in private
investments and helping to create millions of good-paying jobs while
requiring strong labor practices like prevailing wages, expanding
Registered Apprenticeships, and protecting benefits for coal miners with
black lung disease.  Throughout, we have stood against union busting and
supported striking workers, who fight for better pay and safer
conditions.  We have cracked down on wage theft and worker
misclassification so employers cannot avoid paying fair wages or full
benefits.  We are making it easier for workers to report abuses and
unsafe working conditions, even if they are undocumented — improving
safety, boosting pay, and raising standards for everyone.

     At the same time, my Administration has strengthened workplace
safety enforcement and training, hiring hundreds of new workplace
inspectors and increasing site visits by 30 percent.  We launched a
program to inspect workplaces for extreme heat, which can harm
construction, farm, factory, warehouse, delivery, and other workers.  We
have invested more than $100 million in training farm workers to avoid
injuries.  And we have fought for first responders by cracking down on
toxic PFAS — the so-called “forever chemicals” that have been used for
years to produce firefighting equipment and fire suppression agents,
making firefighters sick — and funding research into PFAS alternatives.
 I also signed bills qualifying more than 10,000 Federal firefighters
for critical workers’ compensation and extending tax-free retirement
benefits to firefighters permanently disabled on the job and to families
of late firefighters who faced trauma.  My latest Budget would invest
$430 million more to help Federal agencies promote safe worksites,
protect benefits, increase penalties for labor violations, and end child
labor for good.  Our Administration has worked across the board to
expand access to health care through the Affordable Care Act and
Medicaid, saving millions of families $800 a year each on premiums.
 Today, more Americans have health insurance than ever before in our
history.

     We have more to do.  For starters, the United States is still one
of the only countries in the world that does not guarantee paid sick
leave, forcing too many workers to have to choose between a paycheck and
caring for a sick or injured loved one or for themselves.  The Congress
needs to pass sick days for all and a national paid leave program right
away to change that.

     A safe and healthy workplace is fundamental.  In the United States
of America, no one should have to risk their lives just to make a
living.  Today, we honor those workers who put it all on the line, and
we keep their families in our hearts.  We celebrate the whistleblowers
and union organizers whose courage and persistence has saved countless
lives, and we join them in standing up for all American workers, who are
the best in the world.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim April
28, 2023, as Workers Memorial Day.  I call upon all Americans to observe
this day with appropriate service, community, and education programs and
ceremonies in memory of those killed or injured due to unsafe working
conditions.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-seventh
day of April, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh.  

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
