---
date: '2023-04-14'
published_time: 2023-04-14 12:08:39-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/04/14/a-proclamation-on-national-volunteer-week-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Volunteer Week,\_2023"
---
 
This week, we honor the selfless spirit of Americans who volunteer, and
we sound the call for more Americans to seize opportunities to serve
their communities.

     Every day across America, volunteers are performing extraordinary
acts of service.  They are repairing and rebuilding homes, educating our
youth, and connecting people to jobs.  They are supporting veterans and
military families, helping to run our elections, and combating climate
change.  In the aftermath of natural disasters, neighbors volunteer to
restore communities and cook hot meals.  And amid a pandemic, volunteers
have stepped forward to help administer vaccines and provide lifesaving
resources to people in need. 

     Volunteering defines America.  Our Nation is a place where light
triumphs over darkness, where we seek to lift everyone up, and where we
lead not by the example of our power but by the power of our example. 
As those who volunteer know firsthand, service also benefits the
volunteer.  It can teach important skills, help build professional
networks, and provide an empowering sense of purpose.  Volunteering
brings people together, uniting us around our common belief in the
dignity and equality of every person and giving us a chance to learn
from others we might otherwise never meet. 

     This year marks the 30th anniversary of AmeriCorps.  In the decades
since President Clinton created this Federal agency, more than a million
Americans have fanned out to communities across our country to serve
neighbors, respond and rebuild after natural disasters, educate students
in need, and provide critical support in the face of public health
challenges like the opioid crisis and COVID-19.  Every year, AmeriCorps
matches over 140,000 AmeriCorps Seniors volunteers with service
opportunities.  AmeriCorps embodies our Nation’s commitment to service,
and I was proud to strengthen it with a historic $1 billion investment
through our American Rescue Plan.  My new Budget calls on the Congress
to raise the living allowance provided to AmeriCorps members, making
national service more accessible to Americans of all backgrounds. 
It also calls for the largest-ever request in funding for the Peace
Corps in order to expand opportunities for Americans to volunteer
overseas.  For over 60 years, Peace Corps volunteers have worked in
dozens of countries on projects related to agriculture, community
development, education, environmental protection, health, and improving
opportunities for youth.

     Additionally, my Administration hosted the United We Stand Summit,
convening civic, faith, philanthropic, and business leaders to address
the hate-fueled violence that threatens our democracy.  Responding to
this call to action, leading community organizations announced a new
partnership, A Nation of Bridgebuilders, to train tens of thousands of
Americans in techniques that build bridges across diverse identities and
backgrounds — including storytelling, finding shared values, and
volunteering together in common purpose.  This initiative will host over
1,000 service events in more than 300 communities, improving lives and
bringing Americans closer together.

     This week, I encourage all Americans to seek volunteer
opportunities near you and to visit AmeriCorps.gov and
peacecorps.gov/volunteer to learn more about getting involved.   Large
and small acts of service can mean so much — lifting spirits, opening up
new doors of opportunity, and cementing our identity as a great country
full of good people. 

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim April
16 through April 22, 2023, as National Volunteer Week.  I call upon all
Americans to observe this week by volunteering in service projects
across the country and pledging to make service a part of their daily
lives.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
fourteenth day of April, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-three, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-seventh.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
