---
date: '2023-04-21'
modified_time: 2023-04-21 16:10:43-04:00
published_time: 2023-04-21 16:10:42-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/04/21/a-proclamation-on-national-park-week-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Park Week,\_2023"
---
 
Edward Abbey, park ranger and author, wrote that “Every man, every
woman, carries in heart and mind the image of the ideal place, the right
place, the one true home, known or unknown, actual or visionary.”  For
so many Americans, this place can be found in our magnificent National
Park System.  From the pristine lakes of Glacier National Park to the
breathtaking cliffs of Acadia and from Independence Hall in Philadelphia
to the César E. Chávez National Monument in California, these 424
cultural treasures and natural wonders provide endless opportunities for
recreation, reflection, and inspiration.  This week, we celebrate our
cherished National Park System and recommit ourselves to protecting it
for years to come.

     Preserving our remarkable lands, which have been home to Tribal
Nations since time immemorial, not only bridges our past to our present
but also invests in our planet’s future.  By tending to our forests, we
support our trees’ ability to cycle carbon dioxide out of the
atmosphere.  By safeguarding our wetlands, we shore up our defenses
against hurricanes and superstorms and improve our chances of beating
back forest fires.  Ensuring the health of our ecosystems is vital to
our fight against the climate crisis and our resilience when disasters
strike.

     That is why I launched the “America the Beautiful” initiative
during my first year in office.  This set a national goal of voluntarily
conserving 30 percent of our country’s lands and waters by 2030.  Our
National Park System is a cornerstone of this conservation effort, and
expanding and protecting it is key to meeting our goal. 

     My Administration is also investing over a billion dollars through
our Bipartisan Infrastructure Law to help Federal agencies, including
the National Park Service, restore our extensive system of national
parks and public lands.  This funding supports critical ecosystems by
combating invasive species, replanting vegetation, and improving soil
health.  It expands recruitment, training, and pay for thousands of
brave wildland firefighters.  And it supports new trails, roads,
bridges, and other transportation within national parks, making it
easier and safer to travel and see the sights.  These efforts go
hand-in-hand with our Inflation Reduction Act, the largest investment in
combating climate change in American history.  With this law, the
National Park Service will hire new employees, and we will build out
clean energy charging stations across our national parks and public
lands, bringing us closer to a net-zero emissions future.

     I have been proud to use executive authorities — including my
authority under the Antiquities Act — to protect and expand some of
America’s most cherished natural wonders in and outside the National
Park System.  I designated the Camp Hale-Continental Divide Monument in
Colorado and protected Alaska’s Tongass National Forest.  I restored
protections for Alaska’s Bristol Bay, Minnesota’s Boundary Waters Area
Watershed, Utah’s Bears Ears and Grand Staircase-Escalante National
Monuments, and the Northeast Canyons and Seamounts National Monuments. 
And last month, I established our two newest national monuments — Avi
Kwa Ame National Monument in Nevada and Castner Range National Monument
in Texas — protecting nearly 514,000 total acres of public land.

     Throughout this work, my Administration is ensuring that all
Americans have equal access to our national parks.  My new Budget
requests $3.8 billion from the Congress for the National Park Service so
we can improve transportation options to and from these sites — making
it easier for all Americans to visit, especially people in underserved
communities and people with disabilities.  We are taking steps to
recognize traditional indigenous knowledge and to expand Tribal
co-stewardship of national parks because drawing upon Tribal Nations’
deep expertise of these lands is key to sustaining them.  And through
the Outdoor Recreation Legacy Partnership, the National Park Service is
helping renovate and build public parks and other outdoor spaces in
communities with little access to outdoor recreation.  

     Our national parks are the envy of the world.  Jill and I have
taken our children and grandchildren to these extraordinary places
around the country to remind them of the magnificence and majesty of
America.  They unite us all and are the birthright that we pass down
from generation to generation.  This week and always, let us appreciate
these national treasures that our ancestors conserved for us and
rededicate ourselves to preserving them for all Americans to enjoy.

     On April 22, the National Park Service will be offering free entry
to all national parks.  I encourage everyone to take advantage of this
opportunity and to visit these treasured places.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim April
22 through April 30, 2023, as National Park Week.  I encourage all
Americans to find their park, recreate responsibly, and enjoy the
benefits that come from spending time in the natural world.  
  
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
twenty-first day of April, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-three, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-seventh.  

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
