---
date: '2023-04-28'
published_time: 2023-04-28 13:15:42-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/04/28/a-proclamation-on-national-mental-health-awareness-month-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Mental Health Awareness Month,\_2023"
---
 
     During National Mental Health Awareness Month, we honor the
absolute courage of the tens of millions of Americans living with mental
health conditions, and we celebrate the loved ones and mental health
professionals who are there for them every day.  Treatment works, and
there is no shame in seeking it.  Together, we will keep fighting to get
everyone access to the care they need to live full and happy lives.

     As Americans, we have a duty of care to reach out to one another
and leave no one behind.  But so many of our friends, colleagues, and
loved ones are battling mental health challenges, made worse by the
isolation and trauma of COVID-19.  Two in five adults report anxiety and
depression, and two in five teens describe experiencing persistent
sadness or hopelessness, exacerbated by social media, bullying, and gun
violence.  Drug overdose deaths are also near record highs, and suicide
is the second leading cause of death among young people.  It does not
have to be this way.

     As President, I released a new national strategy to transform how
we understand and address mental health in America — supporting and
training more providers, improving access to care, and building healthy
environments that promote mental health.  This work is a core pillar of
the Unity Agenda that I outlined in my first State of the Union Address.
 Mental health is health; it affects everyone, regardless of race,
gender, politics, or income.  Promoting it is one of the big things that
we can all agree to do together as Americans to make our country
stronger.

     The United States has long faced a shortage of mental health
providers.  It takes an average of 11 years to get treatment after the
onset of symptoms, and less than half of Americans struggling with
mental illness ever receive the care they need.  This is especially true
in rural and other underserved communities.  That is why the American
Rescue Plan made our Nation’s biggest-ever investment in mental health
and substance use programs — recruiting, training, and supporting more
providers at the State and local levels, including in our schools.  Last
year, when we passed the Nation’s first major gun safety law in nearly
30 years, it contained measures to further increase the number of school
psychologists and counselors available to our kids, to make it easier
for schools to use Medicaid to deliver mental health care, and to expand
the Certified Community Behavioral Health Clinics that deliver 24/7
care.  Additionally, we have invested in training more first responders
to address mental health-related issues.

     Last year, we also launched 988 as the Nation’s new Suicide and
Crisis Lifeline so anyone in the midst of a crisis can receive
life-saving confidential help right away.  We added dedicated counselors
trained in supporting LGBTQI+ youth to the 988 lifeline, and for
veterans, we made it easier to reach the Veterans Crisis Line by dialing
988 and pressing 1 to reach trained crisis responders.  We created a
separate Maternal Mental Health Hotline to help mothers navigate mental
health issues like postpartum depression, anxiety, and substance use
disorders, which affect one in five pregnant and postpartum women.  Far
too often, these disorders go undiagnosed and untreated, so we have
invested in programs that bolster screening and treatment and call
specific attention to them during Maternal Mental Health Awareness Week,
which we also observe this month.  Finally, we have passed historic laws
that further require insurers to cover mental health care as they would
any other kind of treatment, that lower prescription drug costs, and
that expand health coverage generally.  I am proud that we have seen
historic health insurance coverage gains since I took office.

     At the same time, we are fighting to expand access to prevention
and treatment for substance use disorders, including opioid use
disorder, which have devastated so many families and communities.  This
includes expanding access to mental health and substance use treatment
in jails and prisons and during reentry to support people when they
return home.  And last year, we passed a law making it easier for
doctors to prescribe effective addiction treatment.  Anyone suffering
should know they are not alone:  We believe in recovery, and we
celebrate the courage of the 23 million Americans who have come so far
down that road.

     We are also expanding mental health care for service members and
veterans, to better honor our sacred obligation to the troops we send
into harm’s way and to care for them and their families when they are
home.  We cannot keep losing 17 veterans a day to the silent scourge of
suicide.  My Administration is increasing access to mental health care,
hiring more mental health professionals, and investing in programs that
recruit veterans to help one another get the support they need.  And we
are working to expand rental assistance and job placement programs to
help smooth veterans’ return to civilian life.  I have also signed laws
extending counseling, benefits, and other mental health resources to
first responders and their families to help them heal from the trauma
that they or their loved ones faced on the job.

     There is much more to do.  For one, we must finally hold social
media companies accountable for the experiments they are running on our
children for profit.  I have called on the Congress to limit the
personal data that tech companies collect, to ban targeted advertising
directed at minors, and to require social media platforms to put health
and safety first, especially for kids.

     We all have a role to play in ending the stigma around mental
health issues.  It starts by showing compassion, so everyone feels free
to ask for help.  If you are facing a crisis, dial 988 to reach the
National Suicide and Crisis Lifeline.  If you are a new or expecting
mother, you can call 1-833-9-HELP4MOMS for confidential professional
advice.  If you are feeling overwhelmed or just need someone to talk to,
ask your healthcare provider, contact the Substance Abuse and Mental
Health Services Administration’s National Helpline at 1-800-662-HELP, or
visit www.FindSupport.gov.  If someone you know is going through a tough
time, reach out and tell them you are there for them.  We are all in
this together.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim May
2023 as National Mental Health Awareness Month.  I call upon citizens,
government agencies, private businesses, nonprofit organizations, and
other groups to join in activities and take action to strengthen the
mental health of our communities and our Nation.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
twenty-eighth day of April, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-three, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-seventh.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
