---
date: '2023-04-28'
published_time: 2023-04-28 13:10:14-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/04/28/a-proclamation-on-older-americans-month-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Older Americans Month,\_2023"
---
 
     On this 60th anniversary of Older Americans Month, we honor our
Nation’s senior citizens, whose lifetimes of hard work, devotion to
family, and commitment to community have laid the foundation for the
country we are today.  We have a rock-solid responsibility to ensure our
Nation’s seniors can age with dignity and financial security.

     When President John F. Kennedy issued the first proclamation
recognizing older Americans, approximately a third of seniors lived in
poverty, and close to half were without health insurance.  Our Nation
rallied together to confront this crisis, passing Medicare to deliver
affordable, quality health care to our seniors; strengthening Social
Security, the bedrock of American retirement; and ultimately raising so
many seniors out of poverty.  We extended lifespans and provided
critical breathing room to Americans who had worked hard their whole
lives.  But there is still more work to do to ensure that no senior lies
in bed at night wondering how they are going to pay for lifesaving
drugs, put food on the table, or support their children and
grandchildren.

     That is one reason why I signed the Inflation Reduction Act.  For
those on Medicare, this law caps the cost of insulin at $35 per month
and will cap out-of-pocket prescription drug costs at $2,000 per year. 
That means seniors could save upwards of tens of thousands of dollars on
lifesaving drugs — including for cancer, heart disease, Alzheimer’s, and
more.  It also means Americans can get vaccinated for free against
shingles, whooping cough, tetanus, and other diseases.  And by holding
drug companies responsible when they increase prices faster than
inflation and finally allowing Medicare to negotiate drug prices, this
law is helping bring down prescription drug costs for seniors across our
country.  Affordable health care is about basic dignity, which is also
why I issued an Executive Order calling on the Food and Drug
Administration to make hearing aids available over the counter without a
prescription.  Now, millions of adults with mild-to-moderate hearing
loss can save as much as $3,000 per pair by buying hearing aids at a
store or online without a prescription.

     At the same time, standing by our seniors means honoring our
Nation’s fundamental promise that when it comes time to retire after
working hard and contributing to our economy, Social Security and
Medicare will be there for you.  I am committed to defending these vital
programs — a lifeline for millions of seniors — which is why my newest
Budget extends the life of the Medicare Trust Fund by at least 25
years.  And I will veto any effort to deny older Americans the benefits
they have earned.

     We must keep building on this progress.  Older Americans should be
able to live, work, and participate in their communities with dignity. 
That’s why I recently signed an Executive Order on Increasing Access to
High-Quality Care and Supporting Caregivers.  I call on the Congress to
expand on the investments we have already made to help seniors receive
care in their own homes and to support family caregivers — including
aging caregivers — and the home care workers who perform selfless work
every day.  I also call on the Congress to expand access to nutrition
counseling for seniors and others with Medicare coverage, to increase
funding for nutrition services for older adults, and to pilot coverage
of medically tailored meals in Medicare — actions that are also part of
my Administration’s National Strategy on Hunger, Nutrition, and Health. 
We need to improve the quality and safety of nursing homes and protect
vulnerable residents and the health care heroes who care for them.  And
we must keep pushing to end cancer as we know it and win the fight
against other deadly diseases that deny us time with those we love most.

     Older Americans are the pillars of our community, and we owe it to
them to value their wisdom, celebrate their contributions, and champion
their well-being.  To older Americans across this Nation, we will always
support you. 

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim May
2023 as Older Americans Month.  This month and beyond, I call upon all
Americans to celebrate older adults for their contributions, support
their independence, and recognize their unparalleled value to our
Nation.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-eighth
day of April, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
