---
date: '2023-04-06'
modified_time: 2023-04-06 16:23:53-04:00
published_time: 2023-04-06 16:23:52-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/04/06/executive-order-on-modernizing-regulatory-review/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Executive Order on Modernizing Regulatory\_Review"
---
 
     By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and
the laws of the United States of America, and in order to modernize the
regulatory process to advance policies that promote the public interest
and address national priorities, it is hereby ordered as follows:  
  
     <span style="text-decoration: underline">Section</span> <span
style="text-decoration: underline">1</span>.  <span
style="text-decoration: underline">Improving the Effectiveness of the
Regulatory Review Process</span>.  (a)  This order supplements and
reaffirms the principles, structures, and definitions governing
contemporary regulatory review established in Executive Order 12866 of
September 30, 1993 (Regulatory Planning and Review), and Executive Order
13563 of January 18, 2011 (Improving Regulation and Regulatory Review). 
Any provisions of those orders not amended in this order shall remain in
effect.  This order also further implements the Presidential Memorandum
of January 20, 2021 (Modernizing Regulatory Review).  
  
     (b)  Section 3(f) of Executive Order 12866 is hereby amended to
read as follows:

          “(f)  “Significant regulatory action” means any regulatory
action that is likely to result in a rule that may:  
  
               (1)  have an annual effect on the economy of $200 million
or more (adjusted every 3 years by the Administrator of OIRA for changes
in gross domestic product); or adversely affect in a material way the
economy, a sector of the economy, productivity, competition, jobs, the
environment, public health or safety, or State, local, territorial, or
tribal governments or communities;  
  
               (2)  create a serious inconsistency or otherwise
interfere with an action taken or planned by another agency;  
  
               (3)  materially alter the budgetary impact of
entitlements, grants, user fees, or loan programs or the rights and
obligations of recipients thereof; or  
  
               (4)  raise legal or policy issues for which centralized
review would meaningfully further the President’s priorities or the
principles set forth in this Executive order, as specifically authorized
in a timely manner by the Administrator of OIRA in each case.”  
  
     <span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>. <span
style="text-decoration: underline">2</span>.  <span
style="text-decoration: underline">Affirmative Promotion of Inclusive
Regulatory Policy and Public Participation</span>.  (a)  To the extent
practicable and consistent with applicable law, regulatory actions
should be informed by input from interested or affected communities;
State, local, territorial, and Tribal officials and agencies; interested
or affected parties in the private sector and other regulated entities;
those with expertise in relevant disciplines; and the public as a whole.
 Opportunities for public participation shall be designed to promote
equitable and meaningful participation by a range of interested or
affected parties, including underserved communities.  
  
     (b)  To inform the regulatory planning process, executive
departments and agencies (agencies) shall, to the extent practicable and
consistent with applicable law:  
  
          (i)    clarify opportunities for interested persons to
petition for the issuance, amendment, or repeal of a rule under 5 U.S.C.
553(e);  
  
          (ii)   endeavor to respond to such petitions efficiently, in
light of agency judgments of available resources and priorities; and  
  
          (iii)  maintain, subject to available resources, a log of such
petitions received, and share with the Administrator of the Office of
Information and Regulatory Affairs (OIRA), upon request, information on
the status of recently resolved and pending petitions.  
  
     (c)  To inform the development of regulatory agendas and plans,
agencies shall endeavor, as practicable and appropriate, to proactively
engage interested or affected parties, including members of underserved
communities; consumers; workers and labor organizations; program
beneficiaries; businesses and regulated entities; those with expertise
in relevant disciplines; and other parties that may be interested or
affected.  These efforts shall incorporate, to the extent consistent
with applicable law, best practices for information accessibility and
engagement with interested or affected parties, including, as
practicable and appropriate, community-based outreach; outreach to
organizations that work with interested or affected parties; use of
agency field offices; use of alternative platforms and media for
engaging the public; and expansion of public capacity for engaging in
the rulemaking process.  
  
     (d)  The Administrator of OIRA, in consultation with relevant
agencies, as appropriate, shall consider guidance or tools to modernize
the notice-and-comment process, including through technological changes.
 These reforms may include guidance or tools to address mass comments,
computer-generated comments (such as those generated through artificial
intelligence), and falsely attributed comments.  
  
     (e) Section 6(b)(4) of Executive Order 12866 establishes a process
for persons not employed by the executive branch of the Federal
Government to request meetings with OIRA officials regarding the
substance of regulatory actions under OIRA review. Public trust in the
regulatory process depends on protecting regulatory development from the
risk or appearance of disparate and undue influence, including in the
OIRA review process. In order to reduce this risk or appearance, the
Administrator of OIRA shall, to the extent practicable and consistent
with applicable law:  
  
          (i) Provide information to facilitate the initiation of
meeting requests regarding regulatory actions under OIRA review from
potential participants not employed by the executive branch of the
Federal Government who have not historically requested such meetings,
including those from underserved communities; and  
  
          (ii) Implement reforms to improve procedures and policies with
respect to OIRA’s consideration of meeting requests initiated by persons
not employed by the executive branch of the Federal Government regarding
the substance of regulatory actions under OIRA review to further the
efficiency and effectiveness of such meetings. These reforms may
include:  
  
               (A)  efforts to ensure access for meeting requesters who
have not historically requested such meetings;  
  
               (B)  discouraging meeting requests that are duplicative
of earlier meetings with OIRA regarding the same regulatory action by
the same meeting requesters;  
  
               (C)  consolidation of meetings by requester, subject
matter, or any other consistently applied factors deemed appropriate to
improve efficiency and effectiveness; and  
  
               (D)  disclosure of data in an open, machine-readable, and
accessible format that includes the dates and names of individuals
involved in all substantive meetings and the subject matter discussed
during such meetings, as required by section 6(b)(4)(C)(iii) of
Executive Order 12866, so as to better facilitate transparency and
analysis.  
  
     <span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>. <span
style="text-decoration: underline">3</span>.  <span
style="text-decoration: underline">Improving Regulatory
Analysis</span>.  (a)  Regulatory analysis should facilitate agency
efforts to develop regulations that serve the public interest, advance
statutory objectives, and are consistent with Executive Order 12866,
Executive Order 13563, and the Presidential Memorandum of January 20,
2021 (Modernizing Regulatory Review).  Regulatory analysis, as
practicable and appropriate, shall recognize distributive impacts and
equity, to the extent permitted by law.   
  
     (b)  Within 1 year of the date of this order, the Director of the
Office of Management and Budget, through the Administrator of OIRA and
in consultation with the Chair of the Council of Economic Advisers and
representatives of relevant agencies, shall issue revisions to the
Office of Management and Budget’s Circular A-4 of September 17, 2003
(Regulatory Analysis), in order to implement the policy set forth in
subsection (a) of this section.   
  
     <span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>. <span
style="text-decoration: underline">4</span>.  <span
style="text-decoration: underline">General Provisions</span>.  (a) 
Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise
affect:  
  
          (i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department
or agency, or the head thereof; or  
  
          (ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of
Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or
legislative proposals.  
  
     (b)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.  
  
     (c)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right
or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity
by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

  
THE WHITE HOUSE,  
   April 6, 2023.
