---
date: '2023-04-10'
published_time: 2023-04-10 10:43:46-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/04/10/a-proclamation-on-black-maternal-health-week-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Black Maternal Health Week,\_2023"
---
 
     Black Maternal Health Week is a reminder that so many families
experience pain, neglect, and loss during what should be one of the most
joyous times of their lives.  It is an urgent call for action.  Black
women in America are three times more likely to die from
pregnancy-related complications than white women.  This is on top of the
fact that women in America are dying at a higher rate from
pregnancy-related causes than in any other developed nation. 

     Tackling this crisis begins with understanding how institutional
racism drives these high maternal mortality rates.  Studies show that
Black women are often dismissed or ignored in hospitals and other health
care settings, even as they suffer from severe injuries and pregnancy
complications and ask for help.  Systemic inequities are also to blame. 
When mothers do not have access to safe and stable housing before and
after childbirth, they are at greater risk of falling ill.  When women
face barriers traveling to the hospital for prenatal and postpartum
checkups, they are less likely to remain healthy.  Air pollution, water
pollution, and lead pipes can have dangerous consequences for pregnant
women and newborns.  And when families cannot afford nutritious foods,
they face worse health outcomes. 

     That is why my Administration wrote the Blueprint for Addressing
the Maternal Health Crisis, which lays out specific actions that the
Federal Government will take to improve maternal health, and secured
funding from the Congress to help implement it.  Vice President Kamala
Harris has been a leader on the issue of maternal mortality for years
and led the charge to improve maternal health outcomes, including by
issuing a call to action to address disparities in maternal care.  She
continues to elevate the issue nationally, convening State legislators,
medical professionals, and others so all mothers can access the care
they need before, during, and after childbirth.

     Additionally, my American Rescue Plan gave States the option to
provide a full year of postpartum coverage to Medicaid beneficiaries —
up from just 60 days of coverage.  As a result, my Administration has
approved requests from 30 States and Washington, D.C. to provide women
with Medicaid coverage with a full year of postpartum coverage, and we
have made this option permanent for every State that extends Medicaid
postpartum coverage.  My Administration has helped facilitate Medicaid
expansion in four States since I took office, and I continue to call on
the Congress to close the Medicaid coverage gap. We are also working to
expand and diversify the maternal health workforce, helping health care
providers hire and train diverse and culturally-competent physicians,
certified nurse midwives, doulas, and community health workers to
support women during pregnancy, delivery, and postpartum care.  My
American Rescue Plan included historic investments in our health
workforce, and my Budget includes $471 million to reduce maternal
mortality and morbidity rates — improving access to care in rural
communities, expanding implicit bias training for health care providers,
and further supporting the perinatal health workforce.

     Because expecting mothers deserve to know where to find the best
care, the Department of Health and Human Services created a new
“Birthing Friendly” hospital designation, a public-facing recognition of
the quality and safety of maternity care which will be publicly reported
on the Care Compare website beginning this Fall.  My Administration is
committed to implementing the No Surprises Act, which helps ensure that
women are protected from certain unexpected out-of-network medical bills
that can come up during pregnancy, postpartum care, and delivery.

     One in 5 women in America experience maternal mental health
conditions like postpartum depression, anxiety, or substance use
disorder, so we launched the Maternal Mental Health Hotline.  By calling
1-833-9-HELP4MOMS — a confidential, 24-hour, toll-free number — new and
expecting moms can now connect with professional counselors.  We are
also supporting and expanding maternal mental health screening programs,
including for postpartum depression.  My Administration is also
partnering with community-based organizations to help pregnant people
access addiction services and work with professionals trained in
treating substance use disorder.

     We are protecting the job security and workplace rights of pregnant
and nursing mothers — including Black women, who are more likely to be
fired, quit, or be forced to return to work after giving birth before it
is healthy for them to do so.  Over the past 2 years, I signed
legislation to ensure employers make reasonable accommodations for
pregnant workers and job applicants, expand the use of break time and
access to private spaces for millions of nursing parents, and study the
unique maternal health challenges facing veterans and help ensure they
get the quality health care they deserve through the Department of
Veterans Affairs.

     At the same time, my Administration is using the power of the
Federal Government to address the long-standing disparities that Black
communities continue to face — disparities that directly impact the
health and well-being of Black mothers.  During the height of the
COVID-19 crisis, my Administration provided relief to hardworking
families, cutting the rate of poverty for Black Americans by nearly a
third.  We are also confronting racial discrimination in housing;
expanding public transit to every neighborhood in the country; improving
access to affordable and healthy food through our National Strategy on
Hunger, Nutrition, and Health; and tackling dangerous environmental
injustices that have hit communities of color the hardest. 

     This week, as we continue our work to make pregnancy and childbirth
safe, dignified, and joyful for all, let us remember that health care
should be a right and not a privilege.  Let us give thanks to the
extraordinary maternal health care workforce, which serves its patients
and their families every day.  And let us join in common cause to end
the tragedy of maternal mortality once and for all.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim April
11 through April 17, 2023, as Black Maternal Health Week.  I call upon
all Americans to raise awareness of the state of Black maternal health
in the United States by understanding the consequences of institutional
racism; recognizing the scope of this problem and the need for urgent
solutions; amplifying the voices and experiences of Black women,
families, and communities; and committing to building a world in which
Black women do not have to fear for their safety, their well-being,
their dignity, or their lives before, during, and after pregnancy.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
tenth day of April, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three,
and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred
and forty-seventh.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
