---
date: '2023-04-21'
published_time: 2023-04-21 16:39:29-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/04/21/a-proclamation-on-earth-day-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Earth Day,\_2023"
---
 
America’s natural wonders help define who we are as a Nation.  They
unite and renew us, a constant reminder of something bigger than
ourselves.  But nature is not only a catalyst for reflection — it
demands action.  On Earth Day, we celebrate the modern environmental
movement that kicked off 53 years ago, when millions of Americans of
every age and background first rallied together to change our laws and
become better stewards of our planet.  Because of their courage and
commitment, the Environmental Protection Agency was created to safeguard
our environment and the health of all Americans, and the National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration was established to help protect
our ocean.  The Congress passed the Clean Water Act to restore our
rivers and streams; the 1970 Clean Air Act to slash deadly emissions;
and the Endangered Species Act, which has helped prevent 99 percent of
potential extinctions of species under its care.  Advocates have since
built a global coalition that today will see a billion people worldwide
take action to protect the Earth.  Their work has called us all to
conscience and has inspired us to reject the false choice between a
sustainable planet and a strong economy.  Today we are continuing to
prove that we can and must demand both.

This work has never been more urgent.  Climate change is a clear and
present danger — in the words of UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres,
it is a “code red for humanity.”  We see it across the world and in
every corner of our country:  more destructive hurricanes and tornadoes;
more severe and longer-lasting droughts; and wildfires that have
destroyed millions of acres — more land than many whole States.  Extreme
weather is disrupting our supply chains and overwhelming our energy
grids, costing America $165 billion in damages last year alone and often
hitting low-income communities hardest.  Deforestation, biodiversity
loss, toxic spills, and plastic pollution only make things worse.  Our
economy, our national security, and our children’s futures are at stake.

When I was sworn in as President, we set groundbreaking goals to cut
America’s greenhouse gas emissions in half by 2030 and achieve net-zero
emissions by 2050 in order to keep global warming below the critical
1.5-degrees-Celsius threshold.  We immediately rejoined the Paris
Agreement and have worked to strengthen global resilience — rallying 130
nations to commit to slashing methane emissions, working to halt
deforestation, and putting healthy ecosystems at the heart of healthy
economies.  At home, we are in the midst of a generational upgrade in
our infrastructure; and we passed the most aggressive climate investment
law in history, making record investments in green manufacturing, clean
public transit, and climate-smart agriculture while giving families tax
credits to make their homes more energy efficient.  In the first 2 years
of my Administration, more solar, wind, and battery storage technology
were deployed in the United States than any prior 2-year period.  In
2022 alone, wind and solar provided nearly three-quarters of new power
generation capacity in the United States.  We are making the United
States the world’s electric vehicle leader, building a nationwide
network of 500,000 charging stations and providing tax credits to help
families afford electric cars and save on the cost of gasoline.
 Throughout, we are making sure that the technology powering our clean
energy future is made in America by American workers, creating
good-paying union jobs.  Since we know environmental factors can impact
businesses and markets, I have made sure that pension fund managers can
continue to take those factors into account.

As we unleash this new era of economic growth powered by clean energy,
we are also making historic investments in environmental justice —
cleaning up toxic waste, improving air quality, capping old oil and gas
wells, and expanding safe outdoor spaces across the country so
communities smothered by the legacy of pollution can rebuild.  We are
working to replace every lead pipe left in America so children
everywhere can turn on the faucet and drink clean water, and we are
partnering with communities to get dangerous “PFAS” chemicals out of
their water supplies.  To complement and enable these efforts, today
I signed an Executive Order committing the Federal Government to
incorporating environmental justice perspectives, values, and
considerations into our work.  I have also committed to working with the
Congress to quadruple American support for global climate finance,
unlocking the additional pools of private investment needed to bring the
world along.  There is no denying that we are in this together.

At home, we have also deepened our conservation work, preserving our
natural wonders as bridges to our past and future.  Our “America the
Beautiful” Initiative aims to conserve at least 30 percent of our
Nation’s lands and waters by 2030; in its first year, we protected more
territory than any administration since President John F. Kennedy’s.
 Last Earth Day, I signed an Executive Order strengthening America’s
forests to harness their power in the fight against climate change and
reduce wildfire risk.  I have designated magnificent lands from Avi Kwa
Ame –- or Spirit Mountain –- in Nevada to Camp Hale in Colorado as
national monuments, restored protections to treasures like Bears Ears
and Grand Staircase-Escalante in Utah, and acted to protect the Tongass
National Forest and Bristol Bay in Alaska.

The environmentalist and author Rachel Carson once wrote:  “Those who
contemplate the beauty of the Earth find reserves of strength that will
endure as long as life lasts.”  Today, we renew that strength to keep
building on our progress.  The challenges we face are great, but our
capacity is greater.  The inspiring passion of young people and climate
activists, civil society and Indigenous communities, and thoughtful
consumers and forward-thinking businesses is galvanizing the world to
finally deliver a more equitable, prosperous, and just planet, preserved
for generations to come.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim April 22, 2023, as
Earth Day.  Today, I encourage all Americans to reflect on the need to
protect our precious Earth; to heed the call to combat our climate and
biodiversity crises while growing the economy; and to keep working for a
healthier, safer, more equitable future for all. 

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-first
day of April, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
