---
date: '2023-04-21'
modified_time: 2023-04-21 15:57:03-04:00
published_time: 2023-04-21 15:57:02-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/04/21/executive-order-on-revitalizing-our-nations-commitment-to-environmental-justice-for-all/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Executive Order on Revitalizing Our Nation\u2019s Commitment to Environmental\
  \ Justice for\_All"
---
 
     By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and
the laws of the United States of America, and in order to advance
environmental justice, it is hereby ordered as follows:  
  
     Section 1.  Policy.  To fulfill our Nation’s promises of justice,
liberty, and equality, every person must have clean air to breathe;
clean water to drink; safe and healthy foods to eat; and an environment
that is healthy, sustainable, climate-resilient, and free from harmful
pollution and chemical exposure.  Restoring and protecting a healthy
environment — wherever people live, play, work, learn, grow, and worship
— is a matter of justice and a fundamental duty that the Federal
Government must uphold on behalf of all people.  
  
     We must advance environmental justice for all by implementing and
enforcing the Nation’s environmental and civil rights laws, preventing
pollution, addressing climate change and its effects, and working to
clean up legacy pollution that is harming human health and the
environment.  Advancing environmental justice will require investing in
and supporting culturally vibrant, sustainable, and resilient
communities in which every person has safe, clean, and affordable
options for housing, energy, and transportation.  It is also necessary
to prioritize building an equitable, inclusive, and sustainable economy
that offers economic opportunities, workforce training, and high-quality
and well-paying jobs, including union jobs, and facilitating an
equitable transition of the workforce as part of a clean energy future. 
Achieving this vision will also require improving equitable access to
parks, tree cover, playgrounds, sports fields, rivers, ponds, beaches,
lakes, and all of the benefits provided by nature, including America’s
public lands and waters.  Pursuing these and other objectives integral
to advancing environmental justice can successfully occur only through
meaningful engagement and collaboration with underserved and
overburdened communities to address the adverse conditions they
experience and ensure they do not face additional disproportionate
burdens or underinvestment.    
  
     We have more work to do to make environmental justice a reality for
our Nation, both for today and for the generations that will follow us.
 Even as many communities in the United States have prospered and
thrived in recent decades, many other communities have been left behind.
 Communities with environmental justice concerns face entrenched
disparities that are often the legacy of racial discrimination and
segregation, redlining, exclusionary zoning, and other discriminatory
land use decisions or patterns.  These decisions and patterns may
include the placement of polluting industries, hazardous waste sites,
and landfills in locations that cause cumulative impacts to the public
health of communities and the routing of highways and other
transportation corridors in ways that divide neighborhoods.  These
remnants of discrimination persist today.  Communities with
environmental justice concerns exist in all areas of the country,
including urban and rural areas and areas within the boundaries of
Tribal Nations and United States Territories.  Such communities are
found in geographic locations that have a significant proportion of
people who have low incomes or are otherwise adversely affected by
persistent poverty or inequality.  Such communities are also found in
places with a significant proportion of people of color, including
individuals who are Black, Latino, Indigenous and Native American, Asian
American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander.  Communities with
environmental justice concerns also include geographically dispersed and
mobile populations, such as migrant farmworkers.  
  
     Communities with environmental justice concerns experience
disproportionate and adverse human health or environmental burdens.
 These burdens arise from a number of causes, including inequitable
access to clean water, clean air, natural places, and resources for
other basic human health and environmental needs; the concentration of
pollution, hazardous waste, and toxic exposures; and underinvestment in
affordable housing that is safe and healthy and in basic infrastructure
and services to support such housing, including safe drinking water and
effective sewage management.  The cumulative impacts of exposure to
those types of burdens and other stressors, including those related to
climate change and the environment, further disadvantage communities
with environmental justice concerns.  People in these communities suffer
from poorer health outcomes and have lower life expectancies than those
in other communities in our Nation.  Moreover, gaps in environmental and
human health data can conceal these harms from public view, and, in
doing so, are themselves a persistent and pernicious driver of
environmental injustice.  
  
     Nearly three decades after the issuance of Executive Order 12898 of
February 11, 1994 (Federal Actions To Address Environmental Justice in
Minority Populations and Low-Income Populations), the Federal Government
must build upon and strengthen its commitment to deliver environmental
justice to all communities across America.  Our Nation needs an
ambitious approach to environmental justice that is informed by
scientific research, high-quality data, and meaningful Federal
engagement with communities with environmental justice concerns and that
uses the tools available to the Federal Government, including
enforcement of civil rights and environmental laws.  Our Nation must
also take further steps to dismantle racial discrimination and
institutional bias that disproportionately affect the health,
environment, safety, and resiliency of communities with environmental
justice concerns.  
  
     To ensure that the Nation’s policies and investments respond to the
needs of every community, all people should be afforded the opportunity
to meaningfully participate in agency decision-making processes that may
affect the health of their community or environment.  The Federal
Government must continue to remove barriers to the meaningful
involvement of the public in such decision-making, particularly those
barriers that affect members of communities with environmental justice
concerns, including those related to disability, language access, and
lack of resources.  The Federal Government must also continue to respect
Tribal sovereignty and support self-governance by ensuring that Tribal
Nations are consulted on Federal policies that have Tribal
implications.  In doing so, we must recognize, honor, and respect the
different cultural practices — including subsistence practices, ways of
living, Indigenous Knowledge, and traditions — in communities across
America.  As our Nation reaffirms our commitment to environmental
justice, the Federal Government must continue to be transparent about,
and accountable for, its actions.  
  
     It is the policy of my Administration to pursue a
whole-of-government approach to environmental justice.  This order
builds upon my Administration’s ongoing efforts to advance environmental
justice and equity consistent with Executive Order 13985 of January 20,
2021 (Advancing Racial Equity and Support for Underserved Communities
Through the Federal Government), Executive Order 13990 of January 20,
2021 (Protecting Public Health and the Environment and Restoring Science
To Tackle the Climate Crisis), Executive Order 14008 of January 27, 2021
(Tackling the Climate Crisis at Home and Abroad), Executive Order 14052
of November 15, 2021 (Implementation of the Infrastructure Investment
and Jobs Act), Executive Order 14057 of December 8, 2021 (Catalyzing
Clean Energy Industries and Jobs Through Federal Sustainability),
Executive Order 14082 of September 12, 2022 (Implementation of the
Energy and Infrastructure Provisions of the Inflation Reduction Act of
2022), and Executive Order 14091 of February 16, 2023 (Further Advancing
Racial Equity and Support for Underserved Communities Through the
Federal Government).  This order also supplements the foundational
efforts of Executive Order 12898 to address environmental justice.  In
partnership with State, Tribal, territorial, and local governments, as
well as community organizations, businesses, and members of the public,
the Federal Government will advance environmental justice and help
create a more just and sustainable future for all.  
       
     Sec. 2.  Definitions.  As used in this order:  
  
     (a)  “Agency” means an executive agency as defined by 5 U.S.C. 105,
excluding the Government Accountability Office and independent
regulatory agencies, as defined in 44 U.S.C. 3502(5).  
  
     (b)  “Environmental justice” means the just treatment and
meaningful involvement of all people, regardless of income, race, color,
national origin, Tribal affiliation, or disability, in agency
decision-making and other Federal activities that affect human health
and the environment so that people:  
  
          (i)   are fully protected from disproportionate and adverse
human health and environmental effects (including risks) and hazards,
including those related to climate change, the cumulative impacts of
environmental and other burdens, and the legacy of racism or other
structural or systemic barriers; and  
  
          (ii)  have equitable access to a healthy, sustainable, and
resilient environment in which to live, play, work, learn, grow,
worship, and engage in cultural and subsistence practices.   
  
     (c)  “Federal activity” means any agency rulemaking, guidance,
policy, program, practice, or action that affects or has the potential
to affect human health and the environment, including an agency action
related to climate change.  Federal activities may include agency
actions related to:  assuring compliance with applicable laws;
licensing, permitting, and the reissuance of licenses and permits;
awarding, conditioning, or oversight of Federal funds; and managing
Federal resources and facilities.  This may also include such activities
in the District of Columbia and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the
Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa, Guam, the
U.S. Virgin Islands, and other Territories and possessions of the United
States.  
  
     (d)  “Tribal Nation” means an American Indian or Alaska Native
tribe, band, nation, pueblo, village, or community that the Secretary of
the Interior acknowledges as a federally recognized Tribe pursuant to
the Federally Recognized Indian Tribe List Act of 1994, 25 U.S.C. 5130,
5131.    
  
     Sec. 3.  Government-Wide Approach to Environmental Justice.  (a)
 Consistent with section 1‑101 of Executive Order 12898 and each
agency’s statutory authority, each agency should make achieving
environmental justice part of its mission.  Each agency shall, as
appropriate and consistent with applicable law:  
  
          (i)     identify, analyze, and address disproportionate and
adverse human health and environmental effects (including risks) and
hazards of Federal activities, including those related to climate change
and cumulative impacts of environmental and other burdens on communities
with environmental justice concerns;  
  
          (ii)    evaluate relevant legal authorities and, as available
and appropriate, take steps to address disproportionate and adverse
human health and environmental effects (including risks) and hazards
unrelated to Federal activities, including those related to climate
change and cumulative impacts of environmental and other burdens on
communities with environmental justice concerns;  
  
          (iii)   identify, analyze, and address historical inequities,
systemic barriers, or actions related to any Federal regulation, policy,
or practice that impair the ability of communities with environmental
justice concerns to achieve or maintain a healthy and sustainable
environment;  
  
          (iv)    identify, analyze, and address barriers related to
Federal activities that impair the ability of communities with
environmental justice concerns to receive equitable access to human
health or environmental benefits, including benefits related to natural
disaster recovery and climate mitigation, adaptation, and resilience;  
  
          (v)     evaluate relevant legal authorities and, as available
and appropriate, take steps to provide, in consultation with unions and
employers, opportunities for workforce training and to support the
creation of high-quality and well-paying jobs, including union jobs, for
people who are part of communities with environmental justice
concerns;  
  
          (vi)    evaluate relevant legal authorities and, where
available and appropriate, consider adopting or requiring measures to
avoid, minimize, or mitigate disproportionate and adverse human health
and environmental effects (including risks) and hazards of Federal
activities on communities with environmental justice concerns, to the
maximum extent practicable, and to address any contribution of such
Federal activities to adverse effects — including cumulative impacts of
environmental and other burdens — already experienced by such
communities;  
  
         (vii)   provide opportunities for the meaningful engagement of
persons and communities with environmental justice concerns who are
potentially affected by Federal activities, including by:  
  
               (A)  providing timely opportunities for members of the
public to share information or concerns and participate in
decision-making processes;  
  
               (B)  fully considering public input provided as part of
decision-making processes;  
  
               (C)  seeking out and encouraging the involvement of
persons and communities potentially affected by Federal activities by:  
  
                    (1)  ensuring that agencies offer or provide
information on a Federal activity in a manner that provides meaningful
access to individuals with limited English proficiency and is accessible
to individuals with disabilities;  
  
                    (2)  providing notice of and engaging in outreach to
communities or groups of people who are potentially affected and who are
not regular participants in Federal decision-making; and  
  
                    (3)  addressing, to the extent practicable and
appropriate, other barriers to participation that individuals may face;
and  
  
               (D)  providing technical assistance, tools, and resources
to assist in facilitating meaningful and informed public participation,
whenever practicable and appropriate;  
  
          (viii)  continue to engage in consultation on Federal
activities that have Tribal implications and potentially affect human
health or the environment, pursuant to Executive Order 13175 of November
6, 2000 (Consultation and Coordination With Indian Tribal Governments),
the Presidential Memorandum of January 26, 2021 (Tribal Consultation and
Strengthening Nation-to-Nation Relationships), and the Presidential
Memorandum of November 30, 2022 (Uniform Standards for Tribal
Consultation), and fulfill obligations established pursuant to Executive
Order 13007 of May 24, 1996 (Indian Sacred Sites);  
  
          (ix)    carry out environmental reviews under the National
Environmental Policy Act (NEPA), 42 U.S.C. 4321 *et seq.*, consistent
with the statute and its implementing regulations and through the
exercise of the agency’s expertise and technical judgment, in a manner
that:  
  
               (A)  analyzes direct, indirect, and cumulative effects of
Federal actions on communities with environmental justice concerns;  
  
               (B)  considers best available science and information on
any disparate health effects (including risks) arising from exposure to
pollution and other environmental hazards, such as information related
to the race, national origin, socioeconomic status, age, disability, and
sex of the individuals exposed; and  
  
               (C)  provides opportunities for early and meaningful
involvement in the environmental review process by communities with
environmental justice concerns potentially affected by a proposed
action, including when establishing or revising agency procedures under
NEPA;  
  
          (x)     in accordance with Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of
1964, 42 U.S.C. 2000d, and agency regulations, ensure that all programs
or activities receiving Federal financial assistance that potentially
affect human health or the environment do not directly, or through
contractual or other arrangements, use criteria, policies, practices, or
methods of administration that discriminate on the basis of race, color,
or national origin;  
  
          (xi)    ensure that the public, including members of
communities with environmental justice concerns, has adequate access to
information on Federal activities, including planning, regulatory
actions, implementation, permitting, compliance, and enforcement related
to human health or the environment, when required under the Freedom of
Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552; the Government in the Sunshine Act,
5 U.S.C. 552b; the Clean Air Act, 42 U.S.C. 7401 *et seq*.; the Clean
Water Act, 33 U.S.C. 1251 *et seq.*; the Emergency Planning and
Community Right-to-Know Act of 1986 (EPCRA), 42 U.S.C. 11001 *et seq.*;
or other environmental statutes with public information provisions;  
  
          (xii)   improve collaboration and communication with State,
Tribal, territorial, and local governments on programs and activities to
advance environmental justice;  
  
          (xiii)  encourage and, to the extent permitted by law, ensure
that Government-owned, contractor-operated facilities take appropriate
steps to implement the directives of this order;  
  
          (xiv)   consider ways to encourage and, as appropriate, ensure
that recipients of Federal funds ‑‑ including recipients of block grant
funding ‑‑ and entities subject to contractual, licensing, or other
arrangements with Federal agencies advance environmental justice;  
  
          (xv)    develop internal mechanisms to achieve the goals of
this order, including by:  
  
               (A)  creating performance metrics and other means of
accountability;  
  
               (B)  identifying and dedicating staff, funding, and other
resources; and  
  
               (C)  providing appropriate professional development and
training of agency staff; and  
  
          (xvi)   consistent with section 2-2 of Executive Order 12898,
ensure that Federal activities do not have the effect of:  
  
               (A)  excluding persons, including populations, from
participation in Federal activities on the basis of their race, color,
or national origin;  
                 
               (B)  denying persons, including populations, the benefits
of Federal activities on the basis of their race, color, or national
origin; or    
  
               (C)  subjecting persons, including populations, to
discrimination on the basis of their race, color, or national origin.  
  
     (b)  The Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)
shall:  
  
          (i)   in carrying out responsibilities under section 309 of
the Clean Air Act, 42 U.S.C. 7609, assess whether each agency analyzes
and avoids or mitigates disproportionate human health and environmental
effects on communities with environmental justice concerns; and  
  
          (ii)  report annually to the Chair of the Council on
Environmental Quality (CEQ) and the White House Environmental Justice
Interagency Council (Interagency Council) described in section 7 of this
order on EPA’s Clean Air Act section 309 reviews regarding communities
with environmental justice concerns and provide recommendations on
legislative, regulatory, or policy options to advance environmental
justice in Federal decision-making.  
  
     (c)  In carrying out assigned responsibilities under Executive
Order 12250 of November 2, 1980 (Leadership and Coordination of
Nondiscrimination Laws), the Attorney General shall assess agency
efforts to ensure compliance with civil rights laws in programs and
activities receiving Federal financial assistance that potentially
affect human health or the environment and shall report annually based
on publicly available information to the Chair of CEQ regarding any
relevant pending or closed litigation.  
  
     Sec. 4.  Environmental Justice Strategic Plans.  (a)  No later than
18 months after the date of this order and every 4 years thereafter,
each agency shall submit to the Chair of CEQ and make available to the
public online an Environmental Justice Strategic Plan.    
  
     (b)  Each Environmental Justice Strategic Plan shall, based on
guidance provided by the Chair of CEQ under section 9 of this order, set
forth the agency’s vision, goals, priority actions, and metrics to
address and advance environmental justice and to fulfill the directives
of this order, including through the identification of new staffing,
policies, regulations, or guidance documents.  
  
     (c)  Each Environmental Justice Strategic Plan shall also identify
and address opportunities through regulations, policies, permits, or
other means to improve accountability and compliance with any statute
the agency administers that affects the health and environment of
communities with environmental justice concerns.  Such measures may
include:  
  
          (i)    increasing public reporting by regulated entities;  
  
          (ii)   expanding use of pollution measurement and other
environmental impact or compliance assessment tools such as fenceline
monitoring;  
  
          (iii)  improving the effectiveness of remedies to provide
relief to individuals and communities with environmental justice
concerns, such as remedies that penalize and deter violations and
promote future compliance, including harm mitigation and corrective
action; and  
  
          (iv)   considering whether to remove exemptions or waivers
that may undermine the achievement of human health or environmental
standards.  
  
     (d)  No later than 2 years after the submission of an Environmental
Justice Strategic Plan, each agency shall submit to the Chair of CEQ,
and make available to the public, an Environmental Justice Assessment
that evaluates, based on guidance provided by the Chair of CEQ under
section 9 of this order, the effectiveness of the agency’s Environmental
Justice Strategic Plan.  The Environmental Justice Assessment shall
include an evaluation of:  
  
          (i)    the agency’s progress in implementing its Environmental
Justice Strategic Plan;  
  
          (ii)   any barriers to implementing the agency’s Environmental
Justice Strategic Plan; and  
  
          (iii)  steps taken to address any barriers identified.  
  
     (e)  An agency’s completion of an Environmental Justice Strategic
Plan and Environmental Justice Assessment shall satisfy the requirements
of section 1-103 of Executive Order 12898.  
  
     (f)  The Environmental Justice Scorecard established under section
223(d) of Executive Order 14008 shall address agency progress toward
achieving the goals outlined in this order and shall include, among
other items, a section on agencies’ Environmental Justice Strategic
Plans and Environmental Justice Assessments.  
  
     (g)  The Chair of CEQ may request additional periodic reports,
information, or evaluations on environmental justice issues from
agencies.  
  
     (h)  Independent regulatory agencies are strongly encouraged to
comply with the provisions of this order and to provide a notice to the
Chair of CEQ of their intention to do so.  The Chair of CEQ shall make
such notices publicly available and maintain a list online of such
agencies.  
  
     Sec. 5.  Research, Data Collection, and Analysis to Advance
Environmental Justice.  (a)  To address the need for a coordinated
Federal strategy to identify and address gaps in science, data, and
research related to environmental justice, the Director of the Office of
Science and Technology Policy (OSTP) shall establish an Environmental
Justice Subcommittee of the National Science and Technology Council
(Environmental Justice Subcommittee).   
  
          (i)    The Director of OSTP, in consultation with the Chair of
CEQ, shall designate at least two co-chairs of the Environmental Justice
Subcommittee and may designate additional co-chairs as appropriate.  The
membership of the Subcommittee shall consist of representatives of
agencies invited by the Director, in consultation with the Chair of
CEQ.  
  
          (ii)   The Environmental Justice Subcommittee and the
Interagency Council described in section 7 of this order shall hold an
annual summit on the connection of science, data, and research with
policy and action on environmental justice.  
  
          (iii)  The Environmental Justice Subcommittee shall prepare,
and update biennially, an Environmental Justice Science, Data, and
Research Plan (Research Plan) to:  
  
               (A)  analyze any gaps and inadequacies in data collection
and scientific research related to environmental justice, with a focus
on gaps and inadequacies that may affect agencies’ ability to advance
environmental justice, including through the Environmental Justice
Strategic Plans required under section 4 of this order;  
  
               (B)  identify opportunities for agencies to coordinate
with the research efforts of State, Tribal, territorial, and local
governments; academic institutions; communities; the private sector; the
non-profit sector; and other relevant actors to accelerate the
development of data, research, and techniques — including consideration
of Indigenous Knowledge — to address gaps and inadequacies in data
collection and scientific research that may affect agencies’ ability to
advance environmental justice;  
  
               (C)  provide recommendations to agencies on the
development and use of science, data, and research to support
environmental justice policy and the agency responsibilities outlined in
section 3 of this order;  
  
               (D)  provide recommendations to the Chair of CEQ on data
sources to include in the Climate and Economic Justice Screening Tool
established pursuant to section 222(a) of Executive Order 14008;  
  
               (E)  provide recommendations to agencies on ethical
standards, privacy protections, and other requirements for the
development and use of science, data, and research addressed in the
Research Plan, including recommendations with respect to engaging in
consultation with and obtaining consent of Tribal Nations; and  
  
               (F)  provide recommendations to agencies on:  
  
                    (1)  encouraging participatory science, such as
research or data collection undertaken by communities or the public,
and, as appropriate, integrating such science into agency
decision-making processes;  
  
                    (2)  taking steps to ensure or encourage, as
appropriate, that collections of data related to environmental justice
include data from the Territories and possessions of the United
States;  
  
                    (3)  improving the public accessibility of research
and information produced or distributed by the Federal Government,
including through the use of machine-readable formats, where
appropriate;  
                     
                    (4)  disaggregating environmental risk, exposure,
and health data by race, national origin, income, socioeconomic status,
age, sex, disability, and other readily accessible and appropriate
categories;  
  
                    (5)  identifying and addressing data collection
challenges related to patterns of historical or ongoing racial
discrimination and bias;  
  
                    (6)  analyzing cumulative impacts (including risks)
from multiple sources, pollutants or chemicals, and exposure pathways,
and accounting for non-chemical stressors and current and anticipated
climate change;  
  
                    (7)  in collaboration with Tribal Nations, as
appropriate, collecting, maintaining, and analyzing information on
consumption patterns of fish, wildlife, and plants related to
subsistence and cultural practices of Tribal and Indigenous
populations;  
  
                    (8)  providing opportunities for meaningful
engagement for communities with environmental justice concerns on the
development and design of data collection and research strategies
relevant to those communities; and  
  
                    (9)  implementing sections 3-3 and 4-4 of Executive
Order 12898 in an efficient and effective manner.  
      
     (b)  Consistent with sections 3-3 and 4-4 of Executive Order 12898,
each agency shall take appropriate steps, considering the
recommendations of the Environmental Justice Subcommittee, to promote
the development of research and data related to environmental justice,
including enhancing the collection of data, supporting the creation of
tools to improve the consideration of environmental justice in
decision-making, providing analyses of cumulative impacts and risks, and
promoting science needed to inform decisions that advance environmental
justice.   
  
     (c)  When conducting research and data collection in furtherance of
the directives in this order and Executive Order 12898, agencies shall
comply with applicable regulations and directives, including those
related to standards of ethics for the protection of human subjects,
such as those set forth in Executive Order 12975 of October 3, 1995
(Protection of Human Research Subjects and Creation of National
Bioethics Advisory Commission), and the Presidential Memorandum of
January 27, 2021 (Restoring Trust in Government Through Scientific
Integrity and Evidence-Based Policymaking).  
  
     Sec. 6.  Community Notification on Toxic Chemical Releases.  To
ensure that the public, including members of communities with
environmental justice concerns, receives timely information about
releases of toxic chemicals that may affect them and health and safety
measures available to address such releases:  
  
     (a)  Each agency shall report in accordance with sections 301
through 313 of EPCRA after considering applicable EPA guidance and
without regard to the Standard Industrial Classification or North
American Industry Classification System delineations.  
  
     (b)  No later than 6 weeks following a release requiring
notification by an agency under section 304(a) of EPCRA, the notifying
agency shall hold a public meeting providing the information required
under section 304(b)(2) of EPCRA, including information on the nature of
the release, known or anticipated health risks, and the proper
precautions to take as a result.  The agency shall provide notice of a
public meeting no later than 72 hours after a release.  
  
     (c)  The Administrator of EPA shall evaluate available legal
authorities and consider any additional steps it may require or
encourage non-Federal facilities that report releases under EPCRA to
undertake in connection with the report.  
  
     (d)  The Administrator of EPA shall provide the Environmental
Justice Subcommittee established by section 5 of this order with an
annual report on trends in data in the Toxic Release Inventory
established by section 313 of EPCRA to inform the development of the
Research Plan required under section 5(a)(iii) of this order.  
  
     Sec. 7.  White House Environmental Justice Interagency Council.
 (a)  Section 1-102(b) of Executive Order 12898, as amended by section
220(a) of Executive Order 14008, and further amended by section 4(b) of
Executive Order 14082, creating the White House Environmental Justice
Interagency Council, is amended to read as follows:  
       
     “(b)  Membership.  The Interagency Council shall consist of the
following additional members:  
           
          (i)      the Secretary of State;  
         
          (ii)     the Secretary of Defense;  
           
          (iii)    the Attorney General;  
           
          (iv)     the Secretary of the Interior;  
           
          (v)      the Secretary of Agriculture;  
           
          (vi)     the Secretary of Commerce;  
  
          (vii)    the Secretary of Labor;  
  
          (viii)   the Secretary of Health and Human Services;  
  
          (ix)     the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development;  
  
          (x)      the Secretary of Transportation;  
  
          (xi)     the Secretary of Energy;  
  
          (xii)    the Secretary of Veterans Affairs;  
  
          (xiii)   the Secretary of Homeland Security;  
  
          (xiv)    the Administrator of the Environmental Protection
Agency;  
  
          (xv)     the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget;  
  
          (xvi)    the Chair of the Council of Economic Advisers;  
  
          (xvii)   the Administrator of General Services;  
  
          (xviii)  the Executive Director of the Federal Permitting
Improvement Steering Council;  
  
          (xix)    the Director of the Office of Science and Technology
Policy;  
  
          (xx)     the Assistant to the President and National Climate
Advisor;  
  
          (xxi)    the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy;  
  
          (xxii)   the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy;  
  
          (xxiii)  the Executive Director of the White House Gender
Policy Council;  
  
          (xxiv)   the Senior Advisor to the President for Clean Energy
Innovation and Implementation; and  
  
          (xxv)    other relevant agency heads as determined by the
Chair of CEQ.”  
  
     (b)  Section 1-102(d) of Executive Order 12898, as amended by
section 220(a) of Executive Order 14008, is further amended by adding
the following sentence at the end:  “The Interagency Council shall
support and facilitate interagency collaboration on programs and
activities related to environmental justice, including the development
of materials for environmental justice training to build the capacity of
Federal employees to advance environmental justice and to increase the
meaningful participation of individuals from communities with
environmental justice concerns in Federal activities.”  
  
     (c)  Section 1-102(g) of Executive Order 12898, as amended by
section 220(a) of Executive Order 14008, is amended to read as follows:
 “Officers.  The head of each agency on the Interagency Council shall
designate an Environmental Justice Officer within the agency with the
authority to represent the agency on the Interagency Council and with
the responsibility for leading agency planning and implementation of the
agency’s Environmental Justice Strategic Plan, coordinating with CEQ and
other agencies, and performing such other duties related to advancing
environmental justice as the head of the agency deems appropriate.”  
  
     (d)  Section 1-102 of Executive Order 12898, as amended by section
220(a) of Executive Order 14008, is further amended by adding the
following at the end:  
  
     “(h)  Memorandum of Understanding.  The Interagency Council shall
adopt a Memorandum of Understanding among its members that sets forth
the objectives, structure, and planned operations of the Interagency
Council.  
  
     (i)  Public meetings.  In coordination with the White House
Environmental Justice Advisory Council, the Interagency Council shall
hold at least one public meeting per year.  The Interagency Council
shall prepare, for public review, a summary of the comments and
recommendations discussed at public meetings of the Interagency
Council.  
  
     (j)  Clearinghouse.  The Administrator of EPA, in coordination with
the Interagency Council, shall, no later than March 31, 2024, establish
a public, internet-based, whole-of-government clearinghouse composed of
culturally and linguistically appropriate and accessible materials
related to environmental justice, including:  
  
          (i)    information describing the activities of the members of
the Interagency Council to address issues relating to environmental
justice;  
  
          (ii)   information on technical assistance, tools, and
resources to assist communities with environmental justice concerns in
building capacity for public participation;  
  
          (iii)  copies of training materials developed by the
Interagency Council or its members to help individuals and employees
understand and carry out environmental justice activities; and  
  
          (iv)   any other information deemed appropriate by the
Administrator, in coordination with the Interagency Council.”  
  
     (e)  Section 5-5(a) of Executive Order 12898 is amended to read as
follows:  “The public may submit recommendations to Federal agencies
relating to the incorporation of environmental justice principles into
Federal agency programs or policies.  Each Federal agency shall convey
such recommendations to the Interagency Council.”  
  
     Sec. 8.  White House Office of Environmental Justice.  (a)  The
White House Office of Environmental Justice is hereby established within
CEQ.    
  
     (b)  The Office shall be headed by a Federal Chief Environmental
Justice Officer, who shall be appointed by the President.  The Federal
Chief Environmental Justice Officer shall advance environmental justice
initiatives, including by coordinating the development of policies,
programs, and partnerships to achieve the policies set forth in this
order; identifying opportunities for collaboration and coordination with
State, Tribal, territorial, and local governments; supporting the
Interagency Council; and advising the Chair of CEQ and the Interagency
Council on environmental justice matters.  
     (c)  The heads of all agencies shall cooperate with the Federal
Chief Environmental Justice Officer and provide such information,
support, and assistance as the Federal Chief Environmental Justice
Officer may request, as appropriate.  
  
     Sec. 9.  Guidance.  Within 6 months of the date of this order, the
Chair of CEQ shall issue interim guidance, in consultation with the
Interagency Council, to inform agency implementation of this order, and
shall request recommendations on the guidance from the White House
Environmental Justice Advisory Council established by Executive Order
14008 (Advisory Council).  To reduce redundancy and streamline reporting
obligations, the interim guidance shall identify ways for agencies to
align other related efforts, such as obligations that agencies may have
under Executive Order 13985 and Executive Order 14008.  Within 18 months
of the date of this order, the Chair of CEQ shall issue final guidance
after considering any recommendations of the Advisory Council.  The
Chair of CEQ may revise any guidance, or issue additional guidance under
this order, as appropriate, and shall consider any additional
recommendations made by the Advisory Council in issuing or revising
guidance under this section.   
  
     Sec. 10.  Reports to the President.  Within 1 year of the date for
the submission of agency Environmental Justice Strategic Plans to the
Chair of CEQ under section 4(a) of this order, the Chair shall, after
consultation with the Interagency Council and after considering
recommendations from the Advisory Council, submit to the President a
report that describes the implementation of this order, includes each
agency’s Environmental Justice Strategic Plan, provides recommendations
for additional steps to advance environmental justice, and, beginning
with the second report, also provides any insights gathered from each
agency’s Environmental Justice Assessment required under section 4(d) of
this order.  
  
     Sec. 11.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:  
  
          (i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department
or agency, or the head thereof; or  
  
          (ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of
Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or
legislative proposals.  
  
     (b)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.  
  
     (c)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right
or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity
by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.  
 

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.  
 

THE WHITE HOUSE,  
   April 21, 2023.
