---
date: '2023-04-26'
modified_time: 2023-04-26 09:44:49-04:00
published_time: 2023-04-26 09:40:22-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/04/26/a-proclamation-on-the-70th-anniversary-of-the-lavender-scare/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on the 70th Anniversary of the Lavender\_Scare"
---
 
Our Nation has made tremendous progress in advancing the cause of
equality for LGBTQI+ Americans.  To keep building on that progress, we
must reflect honestly on the darkest chapters of our story and on how
far we have come.  Seventy years ago, as the Cold War set in, President
Eisenhower signed an Executive Order banning LGBTQI+ Americans from
serving in the Federal Government.  This action codified a shameful
chapter in our Nation’s history known as the “Lavender Scare.”  It was a
decades-long period when 5,000 to 10,000 LGBTQI+ Federal employees were
investigated, were interrogated, and lost their jobs simply because of
who they were and whom they loved. 

On this anniversary, we acknowledge the importance of telling the
complete history of our Nation, reflecting on the lives changed by this
discrimination, honoring the courageous Americans who fought to end this
injustice, and celebrating the contributions of today’s proud LGBTQI+
public servants — including members of our Armed Forces.

Our Nation was founded on the sacred idea that all of us are created
equal and deserve to be treated equally under our laws.  But for so many
members of the LGBTQI+ community, hate, discrimination, and isolation
throughout our country’s history have denied them the full promise of
America.  The Lavender Scare epitomized — and institutionalized — this
injustice.  As LGBTQI+ employees were forced out of the workforce, the
Federal Government attempted to defend its policies by propagating false
and hateful stereotypes — accusing this community of being a threat to
our national security and unworthy of public trust.  Employees who were
fired under these policies often lost future employment, other
opportunities, and even relationships with their own families.  Many
endured poverty and public disgrace.  Some took their own lives as a
result of the trauma they had to bear.

While this is a story of profound injustice, it is also a story of
remarkable bravery.  From seeking relief in the courts to picketing in
front of the White House, activists stood up for their rights and helped
lay the foundation for the modern-day LGBTQI+ civil rights movement. 
One such trailblazer was Franklin Kameny, an Army astronomer, who after
being fired because he was gay, dedicated over 50 years of his life to
activism and helping LGBTQI+ workers stand up for their rights.  In
2009, I was proud to meet Frank Kameny in the Oval Office as President
Obama and I officially expanded many Federal benefits to same-sex
partners of Government employees.

I am equally proud to have mandated additional protections for the
fundamental rights of LGBTQI+ Americans.  I have appointed
barrier-breaking LGBTQI+ leaders to the highest levels of Government,
including the first openly gay Senate-confirmed Cabinet Secretary, the
first two openly transgender Americans to be confirmed by the United
States Senate, and the first open lesbian to achieve the rank of
Ambassador.  When Americans tune in to the daily White House press
briefing, they see the first openly gay White House Press Secretary
representing my Administration on the world stage.

But this is just the beginning.  I rescinded the discriminatory ban on
transgender service members, paving the way for these brave Americans to
once again serve openly in the United States military.  I signed an
Executive Order on Advancing Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, and
Accessibility in the Federal Workforce, taking additional steps to
ensure that LGBTQI+ public servants are treated with dignity and
respect.  I also signed a landmark Executive Order charging the Federal
Government to prevent and combat discrimination on the basis of sexual
orientation and gender identity.  Federal agencies have since
strengthened or clarified protections for LGBTQI+ Americans in housing,
health care, education, employment, credit and lending services, and the
criminal justice system.  Just last year, I proudly signed the Respect
for Marriage Act to defend the rights of LGBTQI+ and interracial
couples. 

The struggle for equal justice is not over.  Today and in each
generation, we must rededicate ourselves to ending the hatred and
discrimination that LGBTQI+ Americans continue to face.  That includes
addressing a wave of discriminatory laws that target them — especially
transgender children — and that echo the hateful stereotypes and stigma
of the Lavender Scare.  My Administration is standing firmly with brave
LGBTQI+ Americans to push back against these injustices.

Great nations face their history openly and honestly:  the good, the
bad, and the truth.  Today, we make our message simple to every public
servant who suffered from the un-American policies and discrimination of
the Lavender Scare:  We see your sacrifices.  We acknowledge what you
lost and what you wrongfully endured.  I have mandated my Administration
to do all we can to write a new chapter of our American story that will
demonstrate our abiding commitment to equal rights, respect for human
dignity, and limitless opportunity for all.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim April 27, 2023, as
the 70th Anniversary of the Lavender Scare.  I call upon government
officials and the people of the United States of America to honor the
contributions of LGBTQI+ public servants, to recognize the lives
impacted by the Lavender Scare, and to celebrate the great diversity of
the American people.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-sixth day of
April, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
