---
date: '2023-04-28'
published_time: 2023-04-28 13:24:01-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/04/28/a-proclamation-on-national-foster-care-month-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Foster Care Month,\_2023"
---
 
The more than 391,000 American children and youth living in foster care
deserve to grow up in safe and loving homes devoted to their health,
happiness, and advancement.  This month, we honor the absolute courage
of young people in foster care, who too often endure challenges that no
child should ever have to confront, and we give thanks to the dedicated
kinship and foster parents who care for them during their times of
greatest need.  We recognize the biological parents and families of
foster children who work hard to overcome difficult circumstances so
they can safely reunite with their children.  We also rededicate
ourselves to supporting the volunteers and professionals who help
America’s foster youth find temporary and permanent homes.

     Despite the selflessness and service of loving foster parents
across the country, children in foster care often face an uphill battle
in achieving their full potential.  Many carry lasting physical and
emotional scars from trauma they experienced at a young age, which can
increase their risk of mental health issues or lead to substance use
disorders.  These challenges are magnified for children of color, who
are disproportionately represented in the child welfare system:  1 in 9
Black children and 1 in 7 Native American children spend part of their
childhood in foster care.  Meanwhile, recent estimates suggest 30
percent of youth in foster care identify as LGBTQI+.

     To fulfill our Nation’s responsibility to our children, we need to
prevent the conditions that lead to kids entering foster care in the
first place.  My Administration has invested hundreds of millions of
dollars in community-based child abuse and neglect prevention programs,
and we are requesting an increase from the Congress for these programs.
 We are also proposing a $5 billion expansion of evidence-based foster
care prevention services to allow more children to remain safely in
their own homes with their own families.  Because poverty can trigger
interventions that unnecessarily remove children from their families, we
are fighting to restore the expanded Child Tax Credit, which in 2021
helped slash child poverty to its lowest rate ever.  And as a dangerous
wave of cynical State investigations targets families with transgender
children, we will keep working to stop politicians from weaponizing
child protective services against loving families who simply want to
support their kids and help them to be their authentic selves.

     For children and youth already in the foster care system, we must
continue finding them loving temporary homes and, ultimately, safe and
supportive permanent homes.  My Administration is working to help States
place more children with relatives and other trusted adults instead of
in group homes.  We are seeking to make it easier for biological parents
to safely reunite with their children by providing these families with
legal representation to help them navigate the complex child welfare
system.

     To make adoption and legal guardianship more manageable for
families who could otherwise create safe and supportive homes, I have
called for the adoption tax credit to be made fully refundable and
proposed extending it to legal guardians — including grandparents,
aunts, uncles, and other relatives.  This would provide more breathing
room to the kinship caregivers currently raising nearly one-third of all
children in the foster care system, and it would also help reduce racial
inequities in our country’s child welfare system.  

     To further increase the number of loving families who can take in
foster children, I issued an Executive Order removing barriers and
combating biases that make it harder for LGBTQI+ families to foster and
adopt.  At the same time, we are working with State child welfare
agencies to make sure LGBTQI+ youth are placed in supportive
environments that see and value them for who they are.

     Since coming to office, my Administration has worked hand-in-hand
with States to help youth aging out of the foster care system to stay in
school, participate in job training programs, pay their bills, and
transition to adulthood.  I have also expanded the Military Parental
Leave Program, which enables service members to spend needed time with
their families following a child’s birth, adoption, or placement in
long-term foster care.   My latest Budget calls for $9 billion to
provide housing vouchers to all 20,000 youth exiting foster care
annually — a key step in helping them secure stable housing during this
difficult transition.  I have also called for an additional $1 billion
to help youth aging out of foster care find a job, enroll in and afford
higher education, obtain basic necessities, and access preventative
health care.

     One of my great privileges during my career in public service has
been meeting some of the remarkable young people in foster care and
their foster parents.  I have seen what good foster care can do. 
Despite the challenges that no young person should ever have to face,
loving foster families can help children become independent, confident,
successful members of society and can be a critical resource to children
and families in times of need.  Ensuring that children who are separated
from their families are placed in loving and supportive environments,
while ensuring that as many families as possible have the resources they
need to remain safely together, is a moral duty we all share and an
investment in America’s future that will pay dividends for generations
to come. 

     This National Foster Care Month, we express our gratitude to every
loving foster parent in America, and we acknowledge every young person
navigating the child welfare system, unsure of what the future might
hold.  You can succeed, and my Administration will do all it can to
provide you with the tools and resources you need and the secure,
respectable upbringing you deserve to create a meaningful life.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim May
2023 as National Foster Care Month.  I call upon all Americans to
observe this month by reaching out in their neighborhoods and
communities to the children and youth in foster care and their families,
to those at risk of entering foster care, and to kin families and other
caregivers.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-eighth
day of April, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
