---
date: '2023-04-28'
published_time: 2023-04-28 13:15:44-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/04/28/a-proclamation-on-national-small-business-week-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Small Business Week,\_2023"
---
 
     From barber shops, beauty salons, and pizza parlors to
manufacturing companies and mom-and-pop shops, Americans have applied to
form a record 10.5 million small businesses in the past two years.  This
week, we celebrate the backbone of our economy and the glue of our
communities:  our small businesses, which help make our Nation strong.

     Nearly half of all private sector workers in our country are
employed by small businesses.  These businesses also account for almost
half of our Nation’s gross domestic product.  They create many of the
goods and services Americans rely on to sustain their everyday lives. 
For many families, owning a small business is also the fulfillment of
their dreams, their path to a better life, their chance to build a
family legacy, and a source of community enrichment.  But as so many
entrepreneurs know well, success can never be taken for granted.  

     Success requires access to capital to meet payroll, pay rent, buy
inventory, and grow.  Small businesses need resilient supply chains so
products can get out the door and arrive on time, and they need
high-speed Internet to process transactions and connect with customers
around the world.  They also need the confidence that, when the going
gets tough, support is close by. 

     When companies were shuttering their doors and laying off workers
at the height of the COVID-19 pandemic, my Administration delivered a
capital infusion of more than $450 billion to the small business sector
to keep Main Streets across America operating and employees on the
payroll.  To create long-term benefits for our economy, I signed the
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, the CHIPS and Science Act, and the
Inflation Reduction Act.  Together, these new laws are creating billions
of dollars in contracting opportunities for America’s small businesses
and investing hundreds of billions of Federal dollars to rebuild our
infrastructure, bring manufacturing back to America, and launch a clean
energy revolution right here in the United States. 

     Our historic investment in semiconductors — the tiny computer chips
that power everything from smartphones to cars — will create a
manufacturing boom, including for small businesses throughout the
semiconductor supply chain.  Record funding for clean energy development
means small businesses have the opportunity to build electric and other
fuel cell vehicles and charging stations.  My Administration is
committed to investing in America and empowering its small businesses to
thrive.  I underscored that during my State of the Union Address when
I announced new standards that require all construction materials used
in these new Federal infrastructure projects to be made in America —
ensuring our country’s future is built right here at home.

     We need to make sure all American small business owners benefit
from these investments.  That is why I am committed to improving access
to capital, contracts, technical expertise, and financial and legal
assistance for small business owners from historically underrepresented
communities.  Through our State Small Business Credit Initiative,
States, territories, and Tribal governments are helping small business
owners, including socially and economically disadvantaged entrepreneurs,
access billions of dollars in loans and investments.  The Small Business
Administration is revamping its existing loan programs to expand access
to small-dollar loans and increase the number of lenders that offer
guaranteed loans, both of which can make a major difference for the
smallest businesses and minority- and women-owned businesses that may
have trouble accessing capital. 

     One of the first actions taken by my Administration was to make the
Minority Business Development Agency a permanent part of the Department
of Commerce.  In March, I hosted the second annual Women’s Small
Business Summit at the White House, where I announced the establishment
of the largest network of Women’s Business Centers ever across America. 
My Administration has invested nearly $70 million in this network,
expanding it to all 50 States for the first time in our history.  The
centers offer training and mentoring to help women entrepreneurs develop
business plans, launch new businesses, and access credit and capital.

     Vice President Kamala Harris has convened small business owners and
entrepreneurs across our Nation to inform them about the resources,
capital, and support we are offering them.  Last year she announced the
formation of the new Economic Opportunity Coalition, an alliance of
private sector companies and nonprofits committing tens of billions of
dollars of investments in community financial institutions and small
businesses.  In April of this year, she and the Deputy Treasury
Secretary Wally Adeyemo announced our new $1.73 billion investment in
the Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, which provides
historically underserved and often low-income communities access to
credit, capital, and financial support to grow their businesses.

     We are making progress, but I know there is more we can do.  I have
set a goal to award 15 percent of all Federal contracts to small
disadvantaged businesses by 2025, which will bring an estimated
additional $100 billion in Federal contracting money to these
companies.  My new Budget calls for an additional $341 million for the
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, and I am seeking an
additional $30 million for the Community Navigators Pilot Program —
which we have already supported with $100 million — so that local
nonprofits, government agencies, and organizations can help new
entrepreneurs navigate the complex paperwork involved in applying for
small business loans.

     Building an economy from the middle out and bottom up, not the top
down, means investing in America’s small businesses.  It means opening
up doors of opportunity for doers, dreamers, and job creators who
represent the restless, bold, and optimistic American spirit.  When we
make these investments and support these innovators, our Main Streets
thrive, our families have good-paying jobs, and America’s future truly
knows no bounds.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim April
30 through May 6, 2023, as National Small Business Week.  I call upon
all Americans to recognize the contributions of small businesses to the
American economy, continue supporting them, and honor the occasion with
programs and activities that highlight these important businesses.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-eighth
day of April, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh.  

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
