---
date: '2023-04-14'
modified_time: 2023-04-14 12:04:17-04:00
published_time: 2023-04-14 12:04:16-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/04/14/a-proclamation-on-days-of-remembrance-of-victims-of-the-holocaust-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Days Of Remembrance Of Victims Of The Holocaust,\_2023"
---
 
     During *Yom HaShoah* and throughout these days of remembrance, we
mourn the six million Jews who were murdered during the horror of the
Holocaust — as well as the millions of Roma and Sinti, Slavs, disabled
persons, LGBTQI+ individuals, and political dissidents who were murdered
at the hands of the Nazis and their collaborators.  Together with
courageous survivors, descendants of victims, and people around the
world, we renew our solemn vow:  “never again.”

     Last year, I returned to Yad Vashem, the World Holocaust
Remembrance Center, to pay tribute to the lives that were stolen during
this dark chapter of our history and to honor their memory.  I will
never forget meeting with two survivors on that sacred ground and
hearing their stories.  The horrors of the Holocaust are painful to
recount — the savage murder of innocent families and the systemic
dehumanization of entire populations.  We remember the cries for help
that went unanswered and the bright futures cut short.  We must never
look away from the truth of what happened.  The rite of remembrance
becomes more urgent with each passing year, as fewer survivors remain to
share their stories and open our eyes to the harms of unchecked hatred. 

     Unfortunately, hatred never truly goes away.  It only hides —
lurking until it is given the oxygen to emerge again.  We have seen this
hard truth across our country, from swastikas on cars and antisemitic
banners on bridges to attacks against Jewish people at schools and
synagogues and outright Holocaust denialism.  The venom and violence of
antisemitism goes against all the values we stand for as Americans.  And
it is a stark reminder — as my dear friend Elie Wiesel once said — that
“Indifference is always the friend of the enemy.”  And as my father
taught me, “silence is complicity.”

     My Administration has not and will not be indifferent.  That is why
I appointed Deborah Lipstadt, a historian of the Holocaust, as the first
Ambassador-level Special Envoy to Monitor and Combat Antisemitism.  We
are developing a national strategy to counter antisemitism — mobilizing
the full weight of the Federal Government to fight this scourge of hate
in America — and we have co-sponsored a United Nations resolution to
combat Holocaust denial through education.  We secured the largest
increase in funding ever for the physical security of nonprofits,
including synagogues, Jewish Community Centers, Jewish day schools, and
other houses of worship.  And I convened the first-ever White House
summit on combating hate-fueled violence because nobody should fear
going to a religious service, wearing a symbol of their faith, or simply
being who they are.

     Hate must have no safe harbor in America or anywhere else.  Today
and always, we make our message clear:  Evil will not win.  Hate will
not prevail.  And the violence of antisemitism will not be the story of
our time.  Together, we can ensure that “never again” is a promise we
keep.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim April
16 through April 23, 2023, as a week of observance of the Days of
Remembrance of Victims of the Holocaust, and I call upon the people of
the United States to observe this week and pause to remember victims and
survivors of the Holocaust.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this fourteenth day
of April, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
