---
date: '2023-04-28'
published_time: 2023-04-28 13:31:23-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/04/28/a-proclamation-on-national-hurricane-preparedness-week-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Hurricane Preparedness Week,\_2023"
---
 
     Powerful hurricanes, typhoons, and tropical storms can devastate
our communities, threaten the lives of our families, and damage
everything we have worked so hard to build.  During National Hurricane
Preparedness Week, we raise awareness about the hazards posed by
hurricanes and share resources to help Americans stay safe and protect
their property before these storms make landfall.  We also celebrate the
remarkable first responders and community members who help rescue,
recover, and rebuild in the aftermath of these natural disasters.

     During last year’s hurricane season, especially in Florida and
Puerto Rico, we witnessed the overwhelming damage these storms so often
leave in their wake.  Families lost their homes.  Business owners lost
their livelihoods.  Survivors were left with unimaginable grief.  As the
climate crisis intensifies, the impacts of storm surges, flooding,
mudslides, and heavy rainfall will only increase, and communities that
lack the resources to respond and recover will be hit hardest.   

     That is one reason why I signed the historic Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law, which will keep Americans safer from natural
disasters by building stronger roads and bridges, improving levees and
floodwalls, and making our power grid more resilient.  This law includes
over $50 billion to shore up our defenses against flooding and other
weather and climate disasters.  It provides States with billions of
dollars to prepare evacuation routes and improve other at-risk coastal
infrastructure.  It also invests in community-wide planning to ensure
that those most impacted by extreme weather have a voice in preparing
for the future.

     Our Inflation Reduction Act takes these efforts a step further,
making the largest investment in our Nation’s history to combat climate
change.  With historic funding for green manufacturing, clean energy
development, and climate-smart agriculture, this law puts us on a path
to cut America’s greenhouse gas emissions in half by 2030.  It gives
families tax credits to make their homes more energy efficient, saving
money and helping ensure that the power stays on when the grid goes
down.  And it provides the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration with billions of dollars to improve weather forecasting
and invest in resilience projects in coastal communities that will help
them more easily recover from extreme weather events.

     These actions build on our efforts to ensure communities consider
climate resilience as they plan for the future — from modernizing
building codes so that structures are more protective and less pollutive
to harnessing the power of ecosystems like reefs, beaches, and wetlands,
which keep us safer during storms.

     These bold investments will benefit our communities for years to
come.  But as we enter another hurricane season, every American can do
their part to plan, prepare, and protect their families.  Check your
insurance policies to ensure they are up to date.  Put your important
documents in a location where they are easy to find.  Know your local
evacuation route, and have an emergency kit ready to go.  Help increase
awareness about the risks among your friends, family, and neighbors.
 And when storms approach, pay attention to storm surge and hurricane
warnings, and follow the guidance from your local authorities, including
guidance about when it is safe to return to affected areas.

     As we prepare, we must also remember and honor the courage,
kindness, and resilience of our fellow Americans.  As President, I have
issued dozens of disaster declarations to support the American people
wherever they live, and every time, first responders have worked around
the clock to save lives and provide food and shelter.  Neighbors,
community organizations, and faith groups have opened their doors to
people in need.  Workers have rebuilt homes, schools, and businesses to
make them more resilient to future disasters.  Scientists have helped
communities adapt and remain safe.  Families, having often lost
everything, have found the strength to move forward.  Time and again, in
America’s most trying moments, we are reminded that we are a great
Nation because we are a good people. 

     This National Hurricane Preparedness Week, let us each recommit to
doing our part to help safeguard our families, our communities, and our
Nation from these devastating natural disasters.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim April
30 through May 6, 2023, as National Hurricane Preparedness Week.  I urge
all Americans to help build our climate resilient Nation so that
individuals, organizations, and community leaders are empowered to take
action to make their communities more resilient to extreme weather and
climate change.  I call on our Federal, State, Tribal, territorial, and
local government agencies to share information that will protect lives
and property.  
  
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-eighth
day of April, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh.  

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
