---
date: '2023-04-28'
published_time: 2023-04-28 13:21:28-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/04/28/a-proclamation-on-national-physical-fitness-and-sports-month-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Physical Fitness and Sports Month,\_2023"
---
 
     Forty years ago, our Nation observed its first National Physical
Fitness and Sports Month to promote the benefits of exercising and
leading a healthy lifestyle.  Since then, we have learned more about how
physical activity can improve mental health, reduce the risk of disease,
and foster social connection.  This month, we recommit to making fitness
accessible in every community and encourage all Americans to adopt
healthy habits that strengthen our bodies and minds and increase the
prospect of a long and healthy life.

     Studies show that regular exercise can have a dramatic impact on
our health, lowering the likelihood of heart disease, stroke, type 2
diabetes, and some types of cancer.  It also improves memory and sleep,
increases our ability to focus, and reduces symptoms of depression and
anxiety.  This is particularly important for people most affected by
diet-related diseases, including communities of color, people living in
rural areas and territories, people with disabilities, older adults,
LGBTQI+ people, military families, and veterans.  For young people,
sports can also be a great way to build leadership skills, learn
teamwork, forge friendships, and foster mental health. 

     But too often, obstacles prevent Americans from getting the
exercise they need.  Less than half of Americans live within a half-mile
of a park.  Adults who work multiple jobs or take care of family members
have less time to pursue an active lifestyle.  Low-income families
typically have less access to safe streets and playgrounds.  Youth
sports leagues can be unaffordable, leaving students with few fitness
options if their school cuts back on physical education. 

     No one’s health should suffer because exercise opportunities are
too expensive or because outdoor spaces are too far away.  That is why I
released a National Strategy on Hunger, Nutrition, and Health to make
America a stronger, healthier Nation.  I am also working with the
Congress to make outdoor spaces more accessible by increasing the number
of parks around our country and expanding opportunities for people to
travel to national parks and other public lands.  We have partnered with
State, local, Tribal, and territorial governments to improve community
access to parks and spaces within our communities where people can be
physically active.  And to encourage a healthy lifestyle for our
Nation’s kids, my Administration has been working with summer schools
and after-school programs to expand physical education opportunities.
 We’ve also invested $800 million into communities across the country to
help redesign roads and make sidewalks and crosswalks safer for people
to walk, bike, and roll.  My Administration has also partnered with
business, civic, academic, and philanthropic leaders who have committed
billions of dollars to take on projects like improving physical
education curricula and taking children on trips to national parks.

     But we must do more.  That is why I launched the White House
Challenge to End Hunger and Build Healthy Communities.  This initiative
encourages all sectors of society to make bold and impactful commitments
to offer Americans more opportunities to be physically active in their
schools and communities.  I also recently announced my upcoming
appointments to the President’s Council on Sports, Fitness, and
Nutrition, which promotes access to healthy foods and physical activity
for all Americans.  Those appointees include prominent athletes,
anti-hunger and nutrition advocates, health care professionals, and
other leaders.

     In addition, my Administration continues to support the Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention’s “Active People, Healthy Nation”
initiative, which provides local governments, schools, and community
organizations with a blueprint to help 27 million Americans become more
physically active by 2027.  We are also supporting the Department of
Health and Human Services’ “Move Your Way” campaign, which informs
Americans about the newest guidance on staying healthy through physical
activity.

     This month, I encourage all Americans to find ways to be active,
whether it is taking a walk or hike, joining a gym, trying a new fitness
class, signing up for a local sports team, or registering for a
community race.  I also call on State, local, Tribal, and territorial
governments, as well as business leaders, to make physical activity more
accessible to all.  When we invest in our health, we foster healthy
homes, more productive communities, and a more resilient society for
generations to come.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim May
2023 as National Physical Fitness and Sports Month.  I call upon the
people of the United States to make daily physical activity a priority,
to support efforts to increase access to sports opportunities in their
communities, and to pursue physical fitness as an essential part of
healthy living.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
twenty-eighth day of April, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-three, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-seventh.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
