---
date: '2022-05-20'
published_time: 2022-05-20 09:24:47-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/05/20/remarks-by-president-biden-after-touring-samsung-electronics-pyeongtaek-campus/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden After Touring Samsung Electronics Pyeongtaek\_\
  Campus"
---
 
Samsung Electronics Pyeongtaek Campus  
Pyeongtaek, Republic of Korea

  
7:47 P.M. KST

THE PRESIDENT:  Mr. President, thank you.  (Applause.)  Thank you. 
You’re very generous.  Thank you very much.  Mr. President, thank you
for that introduction.  It’s wonderful to be back in the Republic of
Korea.

President Yoon, I’m honor- — I’m honored by the welcome you’ve given me
to your beautiful country, and congratulations again on your election —
congratulations — and recent inauguration.  (Applause.)

I and my country look forward to a very productive few days together
where we can get to know one another better and explore ways to take the
alliance between the Republic of Korea and the United States to an even
greater heights than it already exists. 

And Vice Chairman Lee, thank you for welcoming us to this Samsung
semiconductor facility.  This is an auspicious start for my visit
because it’s emblematic of the future of cooperation and innovation that
our nations can and must build together.

I’m joined by my Secretary of Commerce — Secretary Raimondo is here in
the front row — who is working every day to bring us closer to that
goal.

I’ve just seen how this plant makes the most advanced semiconductor
chips in the world.  They’re a wonder of innovation and design,
precision and manufacturing.

Semiconductors power our economies and enable our modern lives, from our
automobiles to our smartphones to medical diagnostic equipment.

And when it comes to the most advanced chips, like the ones made here at
Samsung — it’s only one of only three companies in the world that makes
these chips.  It’s an incredible — an incredible achievement.

Because these little chips, only a few nanometers thick, are the key to
propelling us into the next era of humanity’s technological development:
artificial intelligence, quantum technologies, 5G, and so very much more
— things we haven’t even thought of at this point. 

This plant also reflects the close bonds in innovation between our
countries.  Much of the technology and machinery that is used to make
these chips was designed and produced in the United States. 

And by uniting our skills and our technological know-how, it allows the
production of chips that are critical to both our countries and are
essential — essential — sectors of our global economy.

And thanks for the incredible $17 billion investment that Samsung
announced last May, soon to the United States — to have a facility like
this one that manufactures the most advanced chips in the world in
<s>Tylor</s> \[Taylor\], Texas.  Thank you.  (Applause.)

This investment will create 3,000 new high-tech jobs in Texas and add —
to add to 20,000 jobs Samsung already supports in the United States of
America. 

So, I want to thank Samsung for their investment and for continuing to
expand the very productive partnership between the Republic of Korea and
the United States.

And I — I know that Samsung will also be working with Stellantis on a
joint venture to build a new facility in the United States that will
manufacture batteries for electric vehicles.

Inve- — Investments like these are going to help catapult us forward
toward a clean energy future, which we both badly need, advancing our
shared economic growth, our energy security, and our climate goals.

I also want to make clear that these are smart business decisions. 
Samsung investment of — didn’t invest $17 billion without, as we say in
America, running the numbers.

The United States is a top destination for foreign direct investment,
like the one Samsung is making, because we have world-class, highly
skilled, and highly committed workers.

I urge Samsung and Stellantis and any company investing in the United
States to enter into partnerships with our most highly skilled and
dedicated and engaged workers you can find anywhere in the world:
American union members. 

Stellantis knows how much benefit comes from a successful relationship
with a union in America.  They have a national agreement with my friend
Ray Curry and the United Auto Workers.

For every joint venture that manufactures electric vehicle batteries
would be made stronger by collective bargaining relationships with
America unions.

We also have outstanding, skilled, dedicated union building and
construction trades workers ready to build the new Samsung facility in
Texas.

So, let’s work together to make this happen and to get that plant built
on time and on budget safely and efficiently.  Because union labor means
high-quality work that delivers the best possible return on investment.

The United States has premier colleges and universities; a culture that
fosters innovation and entrepreneurship; a transparent and predictable
legal system, where companies know their ideas and their investments
will be protected.  And my administration is doubling down on all of
these strengths.

We’re investing more than $1 trillion to upgrade America’s
infrastructure coast to coast over the next decade.

And hopefully soon, with the Bipartisan Innovation Act,

we will deliver historic federal investments in U.S. research and
development, including funding for something called the CHIPS Act to
revitalize the U.S. semiconductor industry.

Our two nations work together to make the best, most advanced technology
in the world.  And this factory is proof of that.

And that gives both the Republic of Korea and the United States a
competitive edge in the global economy if — if — we can keep our supply
chains resilient, reliable, and secure.

Over the last few years, we’ve seen just how critical it is.  COVID-19
pandemic — the COVID-19 pandemic exposed the fragility of “just in time”
supply chains.  A global semiconductor shortage has caused a shortfall
in consumer goods, especially automobiles, and it is contributing to
higher prices around the world.

And now, Putin’s brutal and unprovoked war on Ukraine

has further spotlighted the need to secure our critical supply chains so
that our economy — our economic and our national security are not
dependent on countries that don’t share our values.

A critical component of how we’ll do that, in my view, is by working
with close partners who do share our values, like the Republic of Korea,
to secure more of what we need from our allies and partners and bolster
our supply chain resilience.

That’s why our strategy is to build around strengthening our ties and
our cooperation across the board.  That’s how both our nations can
improve our long-term resilience, increase our shared prosperity, and
put our people in the best position to come out ahead in the competition
for the 21st century.

And that’s why, Mr. President, I came to the Republic <s>in</s> \[of\]
Korea on my first trip to Asia as President of the United States.  So
much — so much of the future of the world is going to be written here in
the Indo-Pacific over the next several decades.

We’re standing at an inflection point in history where the decisions we
make today will have far-reaching impacts on the world we leave to our
children tomorrow.

This vibrant democracy has become a powerhouse of global innovation by
investing in educating its people.

And companies like Samsung that are driven by a responsible development
of technology and innovation will be critical to shaping the future and
the direction our two countries — the direction we both want to go.

So, this is the moment, in my view, to invest in one another, to deepen
our business ties, to bring our people even closer together.

This is something President Yoon and I will be talking about on our
visit later this — after this meeting and in the months ahead.  Because
the Alliance between the Republic of Korea and the United States of
America is a linchpin of peace, stability, and prosperity for the region
and the world that we seek.

So, thank you all very much and, President Moon \[sic\] — Yoon, thank
you for everything you’ve done so far.  Appreciate it.  Thank you. 
(Applause.)  

7:56 P.M. KST
