---
date: '2022-05-16'
modified_time: 2022-05-16 23:03:22-04:00
published_time: 2022-05-16 23:02:36-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/05/16/remarks-by-president-biden-first-lady-jill-biden-and-prime-minister-mitsotakis-of-greece-at-a-reception-honoring-greek-american-relations/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks By President\_Biden,\_First Lady Jill\_Biden,\_and Prime Minister\
  \ Mitsotakis Of Greece at a Reception Honoring Greek American\_Relations"
---
 
East Room

5:22 P.M. EDT

FIRST LADY BIDEN:  Thank you, everyone.  Please sit down.  And thank
you, Your Eminence, for your kind words.  Thank you.

And welcome, finally, to the Bicentennial Celebration and the very in —
first in-person Greek Heritage event of our administration. 
(Applause.)  And it’s — it’s so wonderful to see so many friends with us
today.

I’m told that there’s a Greek proverb that says, “A society becomes
great when its elder\[s\] plant trees whose” — “plant trees whose shade
they know they will never enjoy.”

From democracy and philosophy, to astronomy and medicine, to art and
literature, the legacy of Greece touches every corner of our culture. 
We all enjoy the shades of its branches.

And I’ve had the chance to visit Greece many times over the years.  And
I’ve stood in awe at the history of Athens and the beauty of the
islands.  And each time, I’ve been welcomed with open arms.

So it’s my pleasure to be able to return that welcome to you, our Greek
and Greek American friends.

And I’m especially honored to welcome Prime Minister Mitas- — Mitsotakis
and his wife.  And we spent a couple minutes getting to know one
another, and it was so nice to get to know you and Sofia and Dafni.  You
want to stand up and say hello?  (Applause.)

Your work is so inspiring, and I hope that we can continue to deepen our
friendship.  
  
The story of America is the story of all of you.  You are a part of our
beautiful and rich history.  You help write our future every day.  And
the trees you plant will continue to cover our world.  So thank you very
much.  
  
And now, as all of you know, this community has been a true partner to
my husband throughout the years, and you mean so much to him.

So please welcome your President, my husband, Joe Biden.  (Applause.)  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Thank you.  Your Eminence, I’ve been hanging around
with the Greek American community for so long, as a Roman Catholic, I
bless myself the wrong way.  (Laughter.)  I find myself going right.  I
don’t know.  I — the Pope is not real crazy about my change. 
(Laughter.)   
  
Welcome to the White House.  It’s a welco- — it’s wonderful to be able
to host this reception again in person and to welcome the Prime Minister
to Washington.  (Applause.)     
  
We’ve had good conversations.  And I’m delighted to welcome your wife
and daughters today as well, because when it comes to Greek American
relations, it’s all about family in my experience.  As we — my
grandfather Finnegan would say, “That’s the Irish of it.” 
(Laughter.)    
  
But I want to welcome Speaker Pelosi.  Where are you, Nancy?  There you
go.  (Applause.)  And Paul Pelosi, her husband.  
  
And to the members of Congress that are here today, including a great
many proud Greek Americans that are here with us today.   
  
And if you will excuse a point of personal privilege, I’d like to
introduce John Sarbanes.  I want you to know how much we all are
thinking about and missing your dad today.  Every day.  (Applause.)  His
dad was an enormous influence on me and educated me a lot when I got
here as a 30-year-old kid in the United States —  
  
FIRST LADY BIDEN:  And his mom.  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Oh, his mom is there.  
  
FIRST LADY BIDEN:  No — and missing his mom, too.   
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Oh, yes.  Excuse me.  And missing your mom as well. 
But your dad really took me school, and I appreciate it.  
  
And, Your Eminence, it’s great to get to honor and see you again.  What
an honor it is.  And I want to thank you for your moral leadership and
all of the work the Greek Archdiocese of America is doing to shine a
light in the world.   
  
And last year, we had to commemorate the bicentennial of independence
virtually because of the pandemic.  
  
And, by the way, I want to thank the proud Greek Americans who are on
the forefront of the fight against COVID-19 and our efforts to vaccinate
the world.  
  
Last year, we celebrated two hundred — this year, we celebrate 201
years, the end of a year of bicentennial celebrations.  And it’s an
opportunity to honor the history of our two nations and peoples and how
we share so much together — a chance to look to the future that we’re
going to build together.  
  
I’m incredibly proud the first year of my presidency was able to be the
first year of the next 100 years of relations between Greece and the
United States of America.  (Laughter and applause.)  
  
It’s no exaggeration to say that today our friendship and partnership
and our alliance is closer and stronger than it has ever been.  We had a
great conversation.  and the dangerous part for you all is we like one
another a lot.  (Laughter.)   
  
Our two nations are working together across the board on climate and
energy, on trade and investment, on defense and disaster response, and
so much more.  
  
And our new Ambassador to Greece, George Tsunis, a proud Greek American,
is with us today.  (Applause.)  I’m not sure if I was prouder to be
elected president or George to be named ambassador, which he was.  But
George — thank you, pal — has just taken up his post in Athens to
continue carrying forward this important work.  
  
And, Prime Minister, I think there is no area as vital for Greece and
the United States to stand together than in the defense of our shared
and diplomatic principles and our democratic systems.    
  
The United States and the world owe a debt to the ancient Greek ideas
that first taught us that “we the people” and the “demos,” our
democracy, can control our own destiny.  And you made us believe it. 
And the idea that has endured for a millennia.  But it’s also an idea
that every generation has had to fight to uphold.  
  
Every generation has had to defeat democracy’s mortal foes.   Because in
our imperfect world, the appetites and ambitions of the few forever seek
to dominate the lives and liberties of the many.  
  
And, sadly, we have both discussed, including at the Summit for
Democracies last year, that democracy is more under assault today than —
including in the United States — than any time in the recent past.    
  
But the Greek people know, just as the American people do, that freedom
and democracy are worth sacrificing for.  Just as the ideals of the
ancient Athenians inspired America’s founders, the American Revolution,
I’m presumptuous to say, helped inspire Greek patriots to fight for
their own independence over 201 years ago.   
  
And Greece remembers that when dictators and strongmen seek to dominate
their neighbors, there is only one answer:*Oxi!  Oxi!*  No!  No!    
  
During World War Two, when the Axis forces of fascism were sweeping
across Europe, Greece said “no,” inspiring the world through its
resistance.  
  
Today, the war and wisdom and the wanton disinformation have returned to
Europe with Russia’s brutal and unprovoked attack on its neighbor,
Ukraine.  
  
We’re seeing horrific atrocities and war crimes, children being buried
in mass graves, millions of refugees fleeing Putin’s war, and Greece and
the United States standing as one to support the people of Ukraine and
impose severe economic costs on Russia to hold Putin accountable.  
  
And I want to thank you, Mr. Prime Minister, for the moral courage — and
I mean it — the moral courage and clarity you have shown from the very
beginning of this crisis: speaking out immediately to condemn Russia’s
aggression, welcoming Ukrainian refugees, being a bulwark of security
for NATO’s eastern and southeastern Europe and the Mediterranean.    
  
Together, we’re showing the power and the capacity of democracies to be
able to act in unison.  And we’re helping Ukrainians say “no” to Russian
aggression.  And we’re saying “no” to tyranny and to the idea that
autocracies will outpace democracies in the 21st century, because that’s
what is at stake here in my view.   
  
On a personal note, it’s wonderful to see so many friends here today. 
Friends like Andy and Mike Manatos — where are you guys?  There you go. 
(Applause.)  Go back a long way.  Who’ve helped with these events over
the years since I was a senator and Vice President.   
  
And Father Alex, who can’t be here today — I wanted him to know that
he’s the reason I bless myself the wrong way.  (Laughter.)  
  
And my friend from the University of Delaware, President Dennis
Assanis.  Where are you, Dennis?  There you go.  (Applause.)  The
President of the university and his sons, Nicholas and Dimitris. 
Welcome, gentlemen.  It’s great to have you both here.   
  
I like to joke about being known as “Joe Bidenopolous” in my Greek
American community in Delaware.  (Laughter.)  I only own by 3,100 votes
when I ran as a United States senator.  And I think we got 92 percent of
the Greek vote in Delaware — (laughter) — and the nickname stuck. 
(Applause.)  Small population.   
  
But the truth is, I’ve been blessed with lifelong friendships and
political mentors in the Greek American community.  
  
I’ve found inspiration in the courage and principled leadership of the
Greek Orthodox Archdiocese of America, who fought for social justice and
from the days — all the back to the days of Martin Luther King and right
through George Floyd.  And I thank you.  I thank the church.   
  
As a proud Irish American, I’ve felt a great kinship with the Greek
American community.  The same values define the way we grew up: courage,
decency, honor, treating people with dignity as well as an immense pride
in the heart and the heritage of our ancestors that they brought with
them to America.  
  
This is an incredible resilience among Greek Americans.  A determination
— a determination to keep going, to keep fighting, no matter the odds —
no matter what.    
  
And there’s no greater symbol of the faithfulness and perseverance of
the community than seeing Greek Americans proudly celebrate the
reconstitution and re-consecration of the Saint Nicholas Greek Orthodox
Church and National Shrine last November in Manhattan.  (Applause.)   
  
The original structure was destroyed more than 20 years ago during the
9/11 terrorist attacks in our — on our country.  And in rebuilding that
sacred home of the Greek Orthodox Church and the Greek American
community, reaffirmed that even in the deepest, darkest days we always
have hope for the future.  Always.   
  
And today, let us tap into that same spirit and rededicate ourselves to
all the hard work that lies ahead: to defend democracy in Greece, in the
United States, and in all the places where it is under threat today; to
stand up to the — for the dignity and rights of all people.  
  
My dad used to have expression that everyone, no matter what — everyone
— and this is not a joke; he would say it all the time — is entitled to
be treated with dignity.  Dignity.  
  
And to renew our commitment to leave our children a world that is more
peaceful and more secure and more just than we found it.   
  
So I want to thank you again, Mr. Prime Minster, for making the trip and
for the el- — the excellent discussions we had today.  
  
And I look forward to see you again at the NATO Summit very soon in
Spain and continuing our close cooperation on behalf of our two nations
and all of our shared values.  
  
But really, Jill and I are looking forward to seeing in Greece as well. 
(Laughter.)   
  
Thank you.  Thank you.  The floor is yours.  (Applause.)   
  
PRIME MINISTER MITSOTAKIS:  Thank you.  Thank you all so much.

Thank you, Mr. President, Dr. Biden.  Ladies and gentlemen, it is really
a great privilege to be here with you at this bicentennial celebration. 
My wife, my daughters, my team, myself are tremendously grateful for the
warm reception you have offered us.

And honorable guests, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for joining us
here tonight.  

I know this is a very special moment for you, Mr. President.  I’m sure
you see lots of very good friends amongst this gathering.  But this
visit, as you pointed out, has very strong historical connotations.  

Modern Greece, like America before it, was forged in the hands of
dreamers, of revolutionaries fighting for freedom, fighting for
justice.  And it was the story of your independence struggle and its
eventual success, coming as it did decades before ours, that inspired
the oppressed Greeks to fight against all odds for their own freedom.

The leaders of the Greek revolution drew inspiration from what was
achieved on this soil.  Our ancestors did not just dream of freedom and
self-determination; they fought for democracy, Mr. President — that
elusive government of the people, by the people, for the people, which
was invented in ancient Greece 25 centuries ago.

And in his annual message on the 3rd of December, 1822, President James
Monroe remarked: “The mention of Greece fills the mind with the most
exalted sentiments and arouses in our bosoms the best feelings of which
nature is susceptible.”  “A strong hope,” he said, “is entertained that
these people will recover their independence and resume their equal
station among the nations of the earth.”

And it is this shared history of struggle, this shared history of
sacrifice that binds our two nations together.  It places upon us, as
you said, a solemn responsibility to protect and defend the values that
our forefathers risked so much to pass on to the next generations.

And today, this duty is more relevant than ever.  The war in Ukraine,
the invasion of Russia is a chilling reminder that what we took for
granted in Europe — that maps cannot be redrawn by force — is
unfortunately no longer the case.

As you know, Mr. President, we supported Ukraine from the very beginning
with humanitarian aid but also with military assistance.

We did so for reasons of principle, which should be painfully obvious,
but we did so also to protect a world order that is based on the premise
of respect for international law — what you like to call a “rules-based”
international order.

Neo-imperial fantasies belong to other centuries.  They must not
succeed.  And they must not succeed not only for the sake of Ukraine,
but to send a very clear signal to other authoritarian leaders that any
violation of sovereignty will be met by a unified and a forceful
response.

And this is why it is so important that Europe and the United States
stand shoulder to shoulder in this fight.  After all, what we are
protecting are the values which lie at the foundations of our liberal
democracies.

And as a Prime Minister of Greece but also as a member of the European
Council, I would like to thank you again, Mr. President, for your
leadership.

The sanctions we have imposed on Russia are crushing, and rightfully
so.  But as we discussed, we must not lose sight of the fact that our
societies are paying a heavy price in terms of energy prices.  And in
this respect, there is so much more we can do together, the European
Union and the United States, to bring down the prices of energy and, in
particular, the price of gas.

And as we reduce our dependence on Russian hydrocarbons, we also need to
use our market power as larger purchases of gas to deliver short-term
relief to our households and our businesses.

Mr. President, I really mean it when I say that the relationship between
Greece and the United States is today at an all-time high.

Last Thursday, our parliament ratified the new defense and cooperation
agreement between our two countries.  And this new cooperation manifests
itself not just in the naval base at Souda Bay, on Crete, which I hope
you will have an opportunity to visit.  It has been described by many as
the jewel in the crown of our fantastic military relationship.  But it
also manifests itself in the port city of Alexandroupolis in
northeastern Greece, just 500 miles from the Ukrainian border.

And apart from its military importance for NATO, Alexandroupoli, as we
discussed, is rapidly becoming a regional energy hub, an entry point for
liquefied natural gas into the Balkans and Eastern Europe.   
  
And Greece plans to play an important role as a gateway for electricity
produced from cheap, renewable sources, primarily sun, in the Middle
East, in Africa.  And we’re very happy, Mr. President, that the U.S. has
provided its unequivocal support for these projects.   
  
A quick word about our region, Mr. President.  You are extremely
knowledgeable about the Cyprus issue.  And please, use all your
influence to put the negotiation process back on track in accordance
with the U.N. Security Council resolutions.  No one — no one can or will
accept a two-state solution in Cyprus.  (Applause.)  
  
The Balkans are also still quite fragile.  We must keep the European
perspective alive and tangible.   
  
Greece is a pillar for regional prosperity and security, and we will
always seek peaceful ways to resolve our differences with our
neighbors.  I’m convinced that we can achieve that.  
  
We gre- — we place great emphasis on the 3+1 scheme — a framework that
connects the U.S. with Greece, with Cyprus, and with Israel.  And at the
same time, Mr. President, we will continue to invest in our armed forces
and make it very clear that we will not accept any violations of our
sovereignty and our sovereign rights.  And after all, we’re doing so in
order not just to strengthen Greece, but also in order to strengthen
NATO’s southeastern flank.    
  
We will continue our longstanding cooperation between our defense
industries.  We will launch the process for the acquisition of a
squadron of F-35 aircraft, and we do hope to be able to add this
fantastic plane to the Greek Air Force before the end of this decade.   
  
And I’m happy that on Friday, Lockheed Martin officially expressed its
interest in investing in Hellenic aerospace.  Of course, the bonds that
connect us — the bonds between America and Greece reach far beyond our
shared history, security and defense, and across the board from trade to
tourism and technology and cultural exchanges.  There is so much, ladies
and gentlemen, to be mutually gained.   
  
As you know, Greece has come through severe adversity.  The recent
economic crisis was extremely painful for our people.  But Greeks have
proven their resilience.  Democracy in Greece has proven its
resilience.  And today, Greece bears no comparison to the Greece that
became the poster boy of European financial crisis a decade ago.   
  
Our economy is strong.  Earlier this year, we paid off Greece’s
outstanding debt to the IMF two years ahead of schedule.  (Applause.)   
  
We are creating jobs and investing in new industries, such as digital
and clean tech.  Many European companies, wary of their dependence on
China, are bringing back manufacturing jobs to the European continent,
and Greece is an obvious candidate to welcome them.   
  
And many American companies are investing in Greece for the first time —
companies such as Microsoft, Pfizer.  They’re doing so because they see
a country that has an advantageous geographic position, that is both a
member of NATO and the European Union, a country with a stable
government that is welcoming foreign investors.   
  
Because Greece, Mr. President, is back and a promising future lies ahead
of us.  (Applause.)  
  
Let me conclude, Mr. President, by saying that you recognize many Greek
American friends amongst this gathering tonight.  You’ve mentioned
several of them by name.  They call you “Bidenopolous” — (laughter) —
for a reason, although I suggested that maybe you should be called
“Bidenakis.”  (Laughter.)  It would rhyme well.  (Applause.) 

I’m sure everyone in this audience is particularly proud today.  I’m
equally proud about what Greek Americans have achieved in the United
States.  Let me especially acknowledge the presence of your new
ambassador to Greece, George Tsunis.  (Applause.)  
  
I met him at my office a few days ago.  The first thing he told me was a
story of his parents leaving a small village in western Greece called
Platanos.  We’re honored to welcome George back to his second homeland.

And, Mr. President, marking this bicentennial, albeit with a year’s
delay due to COVID, matters deeply to the Greek people and to me
personally.

Recent events make this celebration that much more pertinent.  The fight
of democracies against autocracies is a defining battle of our
generation.  And the proumo- — the proud moments from the history of our
two nations give us confidence in what we can achieve in the future.

We should never lose sight of what our ancestors fought for and that
which we must now defend.  All of us should draw great strength from
their example.

I’m hugely grateful to you, Mr. President, and Dr. Biden for hosting
this magnificent gathering.  And I took your word very seriously that
you do intend to visit Greece — (laughter) — to reciprocate this visit.

Thank you again, all, very much.  (Applause.)

FIRST LADY BIDEN:  You know, my husband has always told me that all
politics is personal.  And I think that you can see that in the
relationship that Joe has with the Prime Minister.  And Mareva and I are
already making plans to see how we can work together.

And talking about, you know, personal relationships, I want to thank
each and every one of you for the relationships that we’ve formed with
all of you and the support that you’ve given us.

So, please enjoy the People’s House with food and drink and music.  So,
we look forward to saying hello.  Thank you.  (Applause.)

5:50 P.M. EDT
