---
date: '2022-05-04'
published_time: 2022-05-04 13:41:12-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/05/04/remarks-by-president-biden-on-economic-growth-jobs-and-deficit-reduction/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden On Economic Growth, Jobs, and Deficit\_Reduction"
---
 
Roosevelt Room

11:01 A.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, good afternoon.  Before I begin, let me tell you,
I’ll be around to answer questions on a lot of things, but I got 600
Olympians waiting out there for me.  If you keep me too long, they’ll
rush the place. 

And — all kidding aside, I — this week, my administration released new
information that contains that we’re on track to cut the federal deficit
by another — another $1.5 trillion by the end of this fiscal year — the
biggest decline in a single year ever in American history.  And the
biggest decline on top of us having a $350 billion drop in the deficit
last year, my first year as President. 

We also learned that for the first time since 2016, the Treasury
Department is planning to pay down the national debt issued to the
public this quarter.  And for all the talk that Republicans make about
deficits, it didn’t happen a single quarter under my predecessor.  Not
once.

The bottom line is the deficit went up every year under my predecessor,
before the pandemic and during the pandemic.  And it’s gone down both
years since I’ve been here — period.  That’s — they’re the facts.

And why is it important?  Because bringing down the deficit is one way
to ease inflationary pressures in an economy where a consequence of a
war and gas prices and oil and food and — it all — it’s just a different
world right this moment because of Ukraine and Russia.  We reduce
federal borrowing and we help combat inflation. 

This <s>process</s> \[progress\] is a great deal — is good news, but it
didn’t happen by itself.  The previous administration increased the
deficit every year it was in office, in part because of its reckless $2
trillion tax cut.  I know you’re tired of hearing me saying that, but a
$2 trillion tax cut that was not paid for.  Was not paid for.  And a tax
cut that largely benefited the biggest corporations — 55 of which earned
$40 billion in profits and paid not a single penny in income tax in 2020
— and wealthiest Americans, like the billionaires who on average pay
just 8 percent in federal taxes.

The previous administration not only ballooned the deficit, it
undermined the watchdogs, the inspector generals, whose job it was to
keep the pandemic relief funds from being wasted. 

Remember, at the time, I kept saying they’re going fire this — the
inspector generals.  Well, they fired the inspector general. 

And in my administration, those watchdogs are back.  The Justice
Department has a chief prosecutor for pandemic fraud who is going to go
after the criminals who stole billions — billions in relief money meant
for small businesses and American families but never got to them — got
in the pockets of criminals.

When I came to office, we took a different approach across the board. 
With the American Rescue Plan and other actions, we started to grow the
economy from the bottom up and the middle out: rescue checks and tax
cuts for working families that gave them just a little bit of breathing
room and put food on the table and a roof over their heads.  

Remember the first year — all those long lines of automobiles lined up
and going through a parking lot just to get a box of food in their
trunk?  Those — all that — we put — we got vaccine shots in arms that
helped us go from 2 million Americans who had been vaccinated to more
than 220 million Americans fully vaccinated. 

And we made it easier for millions of Americans to sign up for coverage
under the Affordable Care Act, saving them an average of $2,400 a year.

As a result of these and other economic recovery plans, we recovered
faster than projected.  A record 6.7 million jobs created last year —
the most in the first year of any president in American history, and the
fastest economic growth in any year in nearly four decades.  And,
looking ahead, I have a plan to reduce the deficit even more, which will
help reduce inflationary pressures and lower everyone’s costs for
families.     

Look, it’s a plan that lets Medicare negotiate the price of prescription
drugs, as they do with the Department of Veterans Affairs.  We can cap
the price of insulin at $35 instead of the hundreds of dollars or even
$1,000 a month for some families. 

And my plan provides tax credits to utility companies to generate clean
energy and those companies are required to pass those savings on to
families.  I met with about a dozen of those utility CEOs here in the
White House, and they confirmed this plan will lower energy bills for
families immediately.

My plan includes tax credits for consumers to purchase electric or
fuel-cell vehicles, new or used, which will save the typical driver
about $80 a month not having to pay for gas at the pump; tax credits for
folks to buy solar panels and heat pumps and more efficient windows and
doors for their homes — estimated savings: $500 per year on average. 

And we can do these things by making sure that no one earning less than
$400,000 a year will pay a single penny more in federal taxes. 

All we’re asking is that the very wealthiest Americans and largest
corporations begin to pay their fair share — at least part of their fair
share. 

You’ve heard me say it before: I’m a capitalist.  I believe you should
be able to make as much as you legally can, but just pay your fair
share.  There’s no reason why a billionaire should be paying a lower tax
rate than a teacher or a firefighter. 

And that’s in sharp contrast to what today’s Republican Party is
offering.  And if I — and if they hadn’t put this in print, you’d think
I was making it up. 

Senator Rick Scott of Florida, a United States senator who is leading
the Republican National Senatorial Campaign Committee, released what he
calls the “Ultra-MAGA Agenda.”  It’s a MAGA agenda all right. 

Let me tell you about this Ultra-MAGA Agenda.  It’s extreme, as most
MAGA things are.  It will actually raise taxes on 75 million American
families, over 95 percent of whom make less than $100,000 a year.

Among the hardest hit: working families, kids with folks.   Imagine
you’re a family of four and you don’t pay — you don’t make enough money
to have federal taxes.  You’re not technically — because you don’t — you
don’t make enough money to pay them.  You pay all your taxes, but you —
you just don’t make enough.

And under this new plan, this tax plan — the Ultra-MAGA Agenda — while
big corporations and billionaires are going to pay nothing more, the
working-class folks are going to pay a hell of a lot more. 

And it goes further than that.  This extreme Republican agenda calls for
Congress — now, this is — I’m not making this up either.  You got to
really think about this.  It requires a vote if it were to pass.  Every
five years, the Congress would have to vote to reinstate or eliminate
Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid.  Social Security — something
seniors have paid in for their whole life, and it has to be
reauthorized?  It has to be reauthorized every five years?

Look, again, it’s hard to make this up, but then again, it’s a MAGA
agenda.  

You know, meanwhile, millionaires and billionaires and corporations
skate by.  Imagine that.  Just imagine that.  I think it is truly
outrageous.   

I’ve offered a different plan — a plan rooted in American values of
fairness and decency.  Wealthy folks and corporations will pay a little
more.  Billionaires will have to pay a minimum tax.  

And again, most importantly, no one making less than $400,000 will pay a
penny more in federal taxes.  We’re going to protect and strengthen
Social Security and Medicare, not put it on the block every five years.

Let me remind you again: I reduced the federal deficit.  All the talk
about the deficit from my Republican friends, I love it.  I’ve reduced
$350 billion in my first year in office.  And we’re on track to reduce
it by the end of September by another 1 trillion 500 billion dollars —
the largest drop ever. 

I don’t want to hear Republicans talk about deficits and their
Ultra-MAGA Agenda.  I want to hear about fairness.  I want to hear about
decency.  I want to hear about help on ordinary people. 

The bottom line is that, for decades, the trickle-down economics has
failed as income inequity grew to historic levels under the Republicans
— the MEGA \[sic\] Republicans — the MAGA Republicans — excuse me, I
don’t want to mispronounce it.  The MAGA Republicans. 

This — it’s time to grow the economy but from the bottom up and the
middle out.  Because here’s the deal: When the poor have a ladder up and
the middle class grows, the wealthy always do very well.  They do very
well.  That’s what this is about.   That’s what this is about: everybody
doing better. 

And so, I want you to understand: Again, first year, $350 billion
reduction deficit; this year, a trillion-five.  It’s going to bring some
relief.  Thank you.   I’ll take a few questions quickly.

Q    Mr. President, may I ask you — may I ask you a question about
sanctions that the EU —

THE PRESIDENT:  About what?

Q    About sanctions against — or about further sanctions in Europe. 
The European Union today announced new sanctions against oil against
Russia.  What’s the next round for the U.S.?

And also, on a separate issue, what’s the next step on abortion once
this case gets settled?

THE PRESIDENT:  No one asked about deficits, huh? 

Q    I’ve got one of those too.

THE PRESIDENT:  You want to make sure this doesn’t get covered.  Okay. 
Here we go.

I’m going to answer those two questions and then go out to talk to the
Olympians.  With regard to the additional sanctions: We’re always open
to additional sanctions, and I’ve been in consultation — I’ll be
speaking with the members of the G7 this week about what we’re going to
do or not do, number one.

Number two — what was the second one?  You want — oh, look —

Q    Oil.  And the second one was on abortion.

THE PRESIDENT:  As I said when I — when this hit, as I was getting on
the plane to go down to Alabama, this is about a lot more than
abortion.  I haven’t — I hadn’t read the whole opinion at that time. 

But this reminds me of the debate with Robert Bork.  Bork believed the
only reason you had any inherent rights was because the government gave
them to you.  If you go back and look at the opening comments from — by
the Bork-Biden — when I was questioning him as chairman, I said, “I
believe I have the rights that I have not because the government gave it
to me, which you believe, but because I’m just a child of God; I
exist.”  I delegated, by joining this union here, to delegate some
obligati- — some rights I have to the government for — for social good. 

So, the idea that somehow there is a inherent right — that there is no
right of privacy, that there is no right — and remember the debate we —
you don’t remember, but we had a debate about Griswold vs. Connecticut. 
There’d been a law saying a married couple could not purchase birth
control in the privacy of their own bedroom and use it.  Well, that got
struck down.  Griswold was thought to be a bad decision by Bork and I —
my guess is the guys on the Supreme Court now. 

What happens if you have — a state changes the law saying that — that
children who are LGBTQ can’t be in classrooms with other children?  Is
that — is that legit under the way the decision is written? 

What are the next things that are going to be attacked? Because this
MAGA crowd is really the most extreme political organization that’s
existed in American history — in recent American history. 

Thank you.  Thank you.

11:14 A.M. EDT
