---
date: '2022-05-23'
modified_time: 2022-05-24 02:58:32-04:00
published_time: 2022-05-23 13:30:31-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/05/23/remarks-by-president-biden-and-prime-minister-fumio-kishida-of-japan-in-joint-press-conference/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden and Prime Minister Kishida Fumio of Japan in Joint\
  \ Press\_Conference"
---
 
Akasaka Palace  
Tokyo, Japan

2:16 P.M. JST  
  
PRIME MINISTER KISHIDA:   (As interpreted.)  Well, thank you.  We are
immensely pleased with President Biden’s first visit to Japan as the
President of the United States.  
  
The United States is Japan’s only ally who shares the universal values
of freedom, democracy, human rights, and rule of law.  
  
It goes without saying that Japan-U.S. alliance is the linchpin of
Japan’s diplomatic and security policy.  The Japan-U.S. summit this
time, in this context, was more important than ever in respect of two
points.  
  
For one, we are currently faced with a crisis that shakes the foundation
of international order, which is Russia’s aggression against Ukraine. 
To defend a resolutely free and open international order based on the
rule of law, unity amongst allies and likeminded countries are required
utmost now than any other.  
  
Another thing is that the challenge of ensuring peace and prosperity of
the Indo-Pacific region is the most important strategic issue for the
international community, and Japan and the United States are thought to
take on leadership role.   
  
In this sense, we highly value the visit by President Biden to Japan, as
it powerfully demonstrates United States’ enhanced engagement in this
part of the region.  
  
Also, together with President Biden, we will later make tomorrow’s Quad
Summit a sure success.  
  
Based on this common awareness, today, frank and useful discussion took
place on matters of international community.  
  
First, on Russia’s egregious aggression, unilateral attempt to change
the status quo by force is totally unacceptable.  Regardless of
location, we reaffirm to respond resolutely together with the
international community, including G7.  
  
Also, confirmation was made to support fully the government and people
of Ukraine.   
  
We also discussed the impact the Ukraine situation could give on the
Indo-Pacific.   
  
For China, we concurred to monitor closely recent activities of Chinese
navy and joint military exercise of China and Russia, and strongly
oppose the attempt to change the status quo by force.  
  
In East China Sea and South China Sea, the Japan and the United States
will closely cooperate on responding to China-related issue, including
human rights.  
  
Also, we affirmed that our two countries’ basic position on Taiwan
remains to be unchanged; and underscored the importance of peace and
stability of Taiwan Straits, which is an indispensable element for peace
and prosperity of the international community; and called for peaceful
resolution of Cross-Strait issue.  
  
On DPRK, sharing the serious concern over nuclear and missile issues,
including the launch of ICBM-class ballistic missiles.  Japan and the
United States and Japan-U.S.-ROK to cooperate to even more closely was
affirmed.  
  
Toward immediate resolution of abduction issue, I reiterated my request
for full understanding and cooperation.  President Biden extended his
strong support.  After this, President Biden will be meeting with family
members of the abductees.   
  
At a time when regional security environment is becoming more severe,
with President Biden we affirmed the need to quickly reinforce the
deterrence and response capability of Japan-U.S. alliances.  I stated my
determination to fundamentally reinforce Japan’s defense capabilities
and secure a substantial increase of its defense budget needed to effect
it.  President Biden strongly supported my determination.  
  
We also concurred to expand and deepen security and defense cooperation
between Japan and the United States.  Further, President Biden
reiterated his commitment to Japan’s defense.  And to make sure that
extended deterrence will remain unwavering, we concurred to keeping
close touch, including on the ministerial level, between our two
countries.  
  
In addition, to alleviate the impact on local communities of Okinawa and
others, we also concurred to steadfastly implement U.S. forces in Japan
realignment, including construction in Henoko of replacement facilities
Futenma Air Station.   
  
And because situation around the nuclear weapons are getting severe, we
also concurred at once realistic and effective efforts on nuclear
disarmament and non-proliferation, and work toward a world without
nuclear weapons.  
  
Engagement in the Indo-Pacific by the United States, and especially in
the economic order, is becoming ever more important.  Japan welcomes the
launch of the Indo-Pacific Economic Framework — IPEF — by President
Biden, and will participate and cooperate in this initiative.  Having
said so, Japan hopes to see the United States return to the TPP from a
strategic perspective.   
  
Also, in order to expand and deepen Japan-U.S. economic cooperation, we
agreed to hold the ministerial-level Japan-U.S. Economic Policy
Consultative Committee, the so-called economic 2+2, coming July.  
  
Further, we concurred on cooperation in economic security, including the
development of advanced semiconductors and specific cooperation
regarding space.  
  
With Russia’s aggression of Ukraine severely damaging the situation over
energy and food, we confirmed that we shall respond through coordination
with the G7 and likeminded nations, as well as with international
organizations.  Through such cooperation, Japan and the United States
hopes to engage in initiatives to realize a sustainable and inclusive
social economic environment.  
  
Regarding the new form of capitalism, which I am proposing, President
Biden reconfirmed his strong support.  By cooperating with President
Biden, who is promoting policies that focus on the middle class, we hope
to create a major global trend of common economic policies among major
countries.  
  
We also exchanged views on global health, cancer research, climate
change, production and promotion of human rights and democracy, and
other global challenges, and agreed that our two countries should lead
efforts of the international community in such areas.  
  
Further, I expressed the necessity to reform and strengthen the United
Nations, including the Security Council, which bears an important
responsibility for the peace and security of the international
community, and gained President Biden’s support.  
  
The President stated that the United States will support Japan becoming
a permanent member of a reformed Security Council.   
  
“The Pacific Ocean does not separate Japan and the United States. 
Rather, it unites us.”  Those are the words delivered by President
Kennedy to Prime Minister Ikeda, which resonate with amplified weight in
today’s context.

I conveyed the importance of human resources development and
people-to-people exchange towards a free and open Indo-Pacific, and
President Biden concurred.

Japan will hold the presidency of the G7 next year.  As the world faces
an unprecedented challenge caused by Russia’s aggression of Ukraine and
the heightened risk of use of weapons of mass destruction, at next
year’s G7 Summit I hope we can demonstrate the will of the G7 to
resolutely reject aggression by force, threat by nuclear weapons, and
attempts to overturn the international order with a strength that will
make a mark in history.

As the Prime Minister of Japan, the only country to have ever suffered
atomic bombings, I believe there is no other venue as fitting as
Hiroshima to demonstrate our commitment to peace.   
  
I hope that we can vow to the world that mankind will never cause the
catastrophe brought about by nuclear weapons, that President Biden and
other leaders of the G7 will together confirm in front of the Peace
Memorial on solidarity to defend peace, global order, and values.

I explained such plans to the President.  And we reaffirmed that next
year’s G7 Summit will be held in Hiroshima and that we shall work
together for its success.

Today, as an outcome of our meeting, we decided to issue a joint
statement.  This statement is the joint strategy of Japan and the United
States as we keep in mind the current situation in Ukraine and the
strategic importance of the Indo-Pacific and aim to uphold and develop a
free and open international order.

Under the current situation of international affairs, which may be
described as the end of the post-Cold War era, the true value of the
Japan-U.S. alliance is being tested more stringently than ever before.

In order to realize a free and open Indo-Pacific and to establish a free
and open rules-based international order, Japan and the United States
will engage in utmost efforts with irreversible resolve.  I look forward
to furthering our partnership with President Biden.  
Thank you, Joe.  Thank you very much.

I now would like to give the floor to President Biden of the United
States of America.

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Thank you very much, Prime Minister, for that warm
welcome you’ve given me here in Japan.  
  
In recent years, the alliance between Japan and the United States has
grown stronger, deeper, and more capable as we work together to take on
the challenges — just as important as the opportunities — of a rapidly
changing world.  
  
A great example of this: We viewed Japan’s lunar rover just coming out
here — over out here — before — after lunch.  A symbol of how our space
cooperation is taking off, looking toward the moon and to Mars.  
  
And I’m excited — I’m excited at the work we will do together on the
Gateway Station around the moon, and I look forward to the first
Japanese astronaut joining us on the mission to the lunar surface under
the Artemis program.  
  
And tomorrow, we’re going to meet with the fel- — our fellow Quad
partners, Australia and India, for our fourth Leaders’ Summit, and our
second time meeting together in person.  
  
The Quad is showing the world that cooperation among democracies can get
big things done, and I am grateful for your leadership.  
  
And thank you for bringing us all together again to keep driving our
progress as we advance a positive vision for the future of the
Indo-Pacific region.  
  
Today, we made several commitments to further increase our bilateral
cooperation and to work together to ensure a free and open Indo-Pacific
that creates opportunity and prosperity for all the people in the
region.  
  
Through our comprehensive and reliance — excuse me — and Resilience
Partnership, which we announced last year, we’re in a situation now that
we’ve invested our cooperation to spur innovation while delivering
concrete progress for our people:  
  
Promoting a secure 5G network and improving Internet connectivity for
our partners in the region.  
  
Improving critical infrastructure and strengthening supply chain
resilience, particularly on semiconductors, batteries, and critical
minerals.  
  
Responding to COVID-19 and building a greater health security and
stronger health system is also part of the future, and helping the world
prepare for the next pandemic with our new CDC regional office right
here in Japan.  
  
Cooperating on clean energy and decarbonization to tackle the climate
crisis.  
  
And after this, the United States and Japan, together with 11 other
nations, will be launching the Indo-Pacific Economic Framework.  
  
This framework is a commitment to working with our close friends and
partners in the region on challenges that matter most to ensuring
economic competitiveness in the 21st century — by improving security and
trust in the digital economy, protecting workers, strengthening supply
chains, and tackling corruption that robs nations of their ability to
serve their citizens.  
  
You know, the two lis- — the two largest democracies — the two largest
economic — economies in the democratic world, the United States and
Japan, are demonstrating the strength of democracies in action.  
  
Our cooperation has been particularly vital in organizing the global
response to hold Putin accountable for his brutal war in Ukraine and his
attack on the norms and principles that are the foundation of our
international order.  
  
Mr. Prime Minister, you’ve been outstanding; you’ve been an outstanding
partner throughout this crisis.  And our unity in the G7 to impose
economic costs on Russia and support the people of Ukraine is sending a
strong message about our willingness to defend a rule-based
international order.   
  
And I’m looking forward to continuing our discussions at the upcoming G7
Summit in Germany and returning to Japan next year, in 2023, for the G7
Summit.  And I welcome the Prime Minister’s announcement that the G7
Summit will take place in his hometown of Hiroshima.   
  
Today, we also discussed ways to continue to strengthen our security
cooperation.  
  
The United States remains fully committed to Japan’s defense, and we
welcome — we welcome the opportunity to work more closely together in an
increasingly challenging security environment.  
  
I applaud Prime Minister Kishida’s determination to strengthen Japanese
defense capabilities as well.  
  
A strong Japan and a strong U.S.-Japan alliance is a force for good in
the region.  I support the peace and stability that’s going to continue
and, we hope, increase across the Taiwan Straits; promote freedom of
navigation in the East and South China Seas; and to deter the Democratic
People’s Republic of Korea.  
  
So, thank you again, Mr. Prime Minister, for your partnership and your
friendship.  
  
The alliance between our two countries is stronger than it’s ever been
and it’s as important as it has ever been.  
  
I’m looking forward to exploring even more ways that our relationship
will help move us toward a future that benefits all people.  
  
So, thank you very much, Mr. <s>President</s> \[Prime Minister\].  And I
really, truly, appreciate your hospitality.   
  
MODERATOR:  (As interpreted.)  Thank you very much.  We will now accept
questions from the press.  First, Japanese journalists, to be followed
by U.S. journalists.  That will be the order of the questions.   
  
Those of you who have questions, please raise your hand.  For Japanese
journalists, I will appoint the journalist, and U.S. journalists will be
appointed by President Biden.   
  
Please come to the closest microphone, identify yourself and your
affiliation, and please be brief and clear in your questions.   
  
Due to infection prevention, please keep your facial masks when you
deliver your question.   
  
Now, Japanese journalists, are there any questions?  The front row,
Yamamoto-san?  
  
Q    (As interpreted.)  TV Asahi.  My name is Yamamoto.  Prime Minister,
President Biden, thank you very much.   
  
First, to Prime Minister: With the Russian aggression of Ukraine, Prime
Minister, you’ve been saying that security of Europe and security of the
Indo-Pacific are inseparable.  In today’s meeting, did you talk about
response to China?  How did you analyze the current status of the
Cross-Straits relations?  Did the Japanese side or U.S. side explain how
U.S. would respond in times of contingency?  What was the request from
the U.S. side regarding Japanese response to a contingency in
Cross-Straits situation?  Did you explain the defense budget increase or
enemy base strike capability?  What did you explain in that context,
Prime Minister?  
  
PRIME MINISTER KISHIDA:  (As interpreted.)  Well, thank you for your
question.  First of all, at today’s summit meeting, as regard Taiwan
Strait issue that you asked, we confirmed that basic stances of two
countries on Taiwan remains to be unchanged, and underscored the
importance of peace and stability of Taiwan Strait, which is an
indispensable element for security and prosperity of international
community, and called upon peaceful resolution of Cross-Strait issues.  
  
In the region, security-related environment is getting severer. 
Unilateral attempt to change the status quo by force, like Russia’s
aggression against Ukraine this time, should never be tolerated in
Indo-Pacific.  Above all, in East Asia, it’s indispensable to further
strengthen Japan-U.S. alliance.  
  
Based on this shared awareness, I have said that — fundamentally
reinforce Japan’s defense capability.  And I stated my determination to
fundamentally reinforce Japan’s defense capabilities and secure
substantial increase of its defense budget needed to effect it.  And
President Biden strongly supported my determination.  
  
And also from myself, I have said that includes what is called “enemy
base strike capability.”  All the options will be there, not to exclude
any one of them.  And this is what I said to President in Indo-Pacific
region, as well as to ensure the peace and prosperity of the
international community, the basis is the cornerstone of which is
Japan-U.S. alliance.  And toward the further strengthening of the
alliance, we would like to remain in close coordination between Japan
and the United States.  
  
Thank you.  
  
Q    Thank you, Mr. President.  I have a question for Prime Minister
Kishida as well.  But, Mr. President, I wanted to ask you about the
economy.  During your trip here to Asia, you’ve promoted the investments
by Samsung and Hyundai.  But back home in the United States, Americans
are dealing with record-high inflation.  The Fed has raised interest
rates to try to address those issues.  And there are also just
enormously high gas prices.  
  
Given the cross-currents of the economy right now — the war in Ukraine,
the China lockdowns that we’ve seen — should Americans be prepared for a
recession?  In your view, is a recession in the United States
inevitable?  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  No.  
  
Q    Why not?  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Look, you’re talking about the significant progress
we’ve made in making sure we don’t have supply chain backups — about the
8,000 jobs that Hyundai is going to be bringing to Georgia; 3,000 jobs
to Texas from Samsung, $17 billion investment; Toyota, 1,700 jobs in
North Carolina on battery technology; the situation where we — at —
we’ve created over 8 million new jobs, where unemployment is down to 3.6
percent, and so on and so forth — as if they’re a problem.  Imagine
where we’d be with Putin’s tax and the war in Ukraine had we not made
that enormous progress.  
  
Our GDP is going to grow faster than China’s for the first time in 40
years.  Now, does that mean we don’t have problems?  We do.  We have
problems that the rest of the world has, but less consequential than the
rest of the world has because of our internal growth and strength.  
  
Here’s the situation.  And when it comes to the gas prices, we’re going
through an incredible transition that is taking place that, God willing,
when it’s over, we’ll be stronger and the world will be stronger and
less reliant on fossil fuels when this is over.  
  
You see what Europe is doing relative to the importation of Russian
gas.  You see what — anyway, I won’t go through it all, but —  
  
And what I’ve been able to do to keep it from getting even worse — and
it’s bad.  The price of gas at the pump is something that I told you —
you heard me say before — it would be a matter of great discussion at my
kitchen table when I was a kid growing up.  It’s affecting a lot of
families.  
  
But we have released over two hundred and, I think, fifty-seven thousand
— million barrels of oil, I should say.  Us and the rest of the world we
convinced to get involved.  It’s helped, but it’s not been enough.  
  
We also find ourselves in a situation where we have food shortages —
food shortages because of Ukraine.  There are over — there are literally
millions of bushels of oil — I mean, excuse me, of grain being held up
in Ukraine that would fundamentally impact positively on the market in
terms of bringing down food prices across the board.  
  
So we’re finding ourselves in a position where we’re working very hard
with American farmers and American manufacturing- — and American
agricultural products to provide more fertilizer and a whole range of
things.  
  
This is going to be a haul.  This is going to take some time.  But in
the meantime, it seems to me the best thing I can do — in addition to
try to get the Middle Eastern countries, including OPEC, to raise their
production of oil and move along that route — is to see to it that we
continue to grow our economy, create jobs.  
  
And the other thing is: There’s a second wave — I know you don’t want to
talk about it — not necessarily you; people don’t want to talk about it
right now.  And I won’t take up the time.  But there’s a second wave to
impact on inflation, in terms of people’s daily cost.   
  
If you’re able to have childcare at 17 percent of — 7 percent of your
income, if you’re able to be in a position where we were able to provide
for a tax cut for middle-class people and working-class people, et
cetera — all those things would be very helpful.    
  
And we — but when we have a 50-50 Senate, it means we have 50
presidents.  And I’m having a little trouble getting some of these
things passed.  But we’re not going to give up.  We’re going to keep
pushing.  
  
Q    Can I just follow you on one point?  Secretary Yellen said recently
that some of the tariffs on Chinese imports impose more harm on
consumers and businesses, and aren’t very strategic.  Do you share that
view?  And are you considering taking down some of those tariffs?  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  I’m talking with the Secretary when we get home.  I am
considering it.  We did not impose any of those tariffs.  They were
imposed by the last administration, and they’re under consideration.

Q    Thank you.

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Thank you.  
  
Q    Prime Minister Kishida, if I may, sir: We’re going to be hearing
more about this Indo-Pacific Economic Forum today.  What message do you
hope that it sends to China in the global market?  And do you see this
as a potential precursor to some type of trade pact, given the — the
political situation in the United States dealing with TPP?  
  
PRIME MINISTER KISHIDA:  (As interpreted.)  Well, thank you for the IPEF
— your question.  Well, United States in the Indo-Pacific region is
making economic interest known and highly interested, and the very
posture shown by the United States is something we highly value in
Japan.  
  
Regarding the TPP, we are truly hoping for return of the United States. 
But even with the TPP, it’s important that we proceed with discussions
on IPEF.  And that attitude of the United States is wholeheartedly
welcomed by the Japanese government, and we would like to support the
U.S. initiative.

China right now in the Indo-Pacific region is demonstrating significant
economic presence.  That’s true, but look into the substance of their
presence.  Are they abiding by international rules?  What about
development finance?  Are they carrying about sustainable initiatives? 
They have to do that because they are a major power.  They have
significant responsibility.  Even in the economic field, they have to
live up to that responsibility.  
  
So Japan will cooperate with the United States — and, vis-à-vis China,
persuade them to live up to their responsibilities to abide by
international rules.  And we think that such attitude is very
important.  
  
Thank you.

MODERATOR:  (As interpreted.)  So, once again, we will receive question
from a Japanese reporter.  Please raise your hand.  
  
Asahi (inaudible).  
  
Q    (As interpreted.)  Ikejiri from Asahi Newspaper.  Prime Minister
Kishida, President Biden, nice to meet you.  I have a question once
again about IPEF.

It is said that IPEF is different from the framework of TPP, and some
other members are saying that there is less merit there, benefit.  Would
the IPEF will be effective a framework?  Or in order to ensure the
effectiveness for IPEF, what is the role that Japan will be playing,
Prime Minister Kishida?

And also, there was expectations expressed for United States to come
back to TPP.  What was the response you received?  
  
PRIME MINISTER KISHIDA:  (As interpreted.)  First of all, on IPEF, under
the leadership of President Biden, shortly after this press conference,
there will be official launch of IPEF.  That’s the plan.  Such ceremony
is slated to take place.

I said this before, but this is a demonstration of the positive
commitment of the United States to the Indo-Pacific.  Japan welcomes
such steps, and we are in full support.  And I’m going to join President
Biden to participate in the inauguration ceremony.

And through IPEF, it’s important to realize sustainable and inclusive
economic growth in the Indo-Pacific.  
  
In your question, you asked about the concern of some countries who may
think that there is very little merit or advantage to them, but we’re
going to discuss various matters, not only with the United States, but
regional partners, including the ASEAN countries, in order to jointly
deliver concrete results.

So this is a venue to engage in positive discussion for cooperation. 
And through such initiatives, we want to deliver concrete and specific
results.  And that will serve as specific and actual advantage or merit
for those countries.

You asked the question on TPP.  From the strategic perspective of U.S.
engagement in the international order of the Indo-Pacific, we want
United States to be engaged from the economic perspective as well, so
our position remains unchanged.  We think it’s desirable for the United
States to return to the TPP.  
  
So, Japan hopes to see Japa- — to see U.S. come back to the TPP.  And
during the meeting, I directly communicated our hopes as such to the
President.  
  
I will not make any further detailed comments since it pertains to
diplomatic exchanges.  
Finally, I invite questions from the U.S. press.  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Nancy Cordes, with NBC — CBS.  Hey, Nance.  
  
(Reporter approaches microphone.)  
  
Q    Sorry.  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Dangerous.  (Laughs.)  
  
Q    Tight quarters.  
  
Thank you so much.  I have a question for the Prime Minister, but first
to you, Mr. President: We’re already dealing with one global pandemic,
and you said yesterday that monkeypox is something that everyone should
be concerned about.  There are a few confirmed cases in the U.S., and
some countries are imposing 21-day quarantines for people who are
infected or even, in some cases, just exposed.  Should Americans expect
something similar?  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  No, I don’t think so.  Look, we’ve had this monkeypox
in the larger numbers in the past, number one.   
  
Number two, we have vaccines to care for it — to take care of it.   
  
Number three, there is — thus far, there doesn’t seem to be a need for
any kind of extra — extra efforts beyond what’s going on.  And so, I
just don’t think it rises to the level of the kind of concern that
existed with COVID-19 or — and the smallpox vaccine works for it.  So —
but I think people should be careful.  
  
Q    Do you think that the U.S. has enough smallpox vaccine
stockpiled?  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  I think we do have enough to deal with the likelihood
of the problem.  
  
Q    And, Mr. Prime Minister, can you tell us how Japan would respond if
China were to invade or tried to take over Taiwan?  And how do you hope
that the U.S. would respond if that were to happen?  
  
And, Mr. President, if you could tell us how the U.S. is prepared to
respond, we would appreciate it.   
  
PRIME MINISTER KISHIDA:  (As interpreted.)  Thank you.  On Taiwan: In
the summit meeting, it was brought up in our discussions — the situation
in the Taiwan Straits.   
  
The fundamental position of Japan and the United States was reaffirmed;
there is no change.  And we asserted the importance of peace and
stability of the Taiwan Straits, which is fundamental to international
order, and peaceful resolution of the Straits issue should be pursued. 
We reconfirmed that position.   
  
Now, in Asia, we are against any unilateral attempt to change status quo
by force in Asia, all the more so because of such position regarding the
situation in Ukraine.  We think that unilateral attempt to change status
quo is impermissible.  That’s why we’re cooperating with the
international cooperation and we decided to participate in the strong
sanctions, and we are providing humanitarian assistance.   
  
And in Asia as well, peace and stability must be upheld and defended. 
And in order to defend peace and stability in Asia, we will drastically
upgrade and strengthen our defense capability, and United States is the
only ally for Japan.  And Japan-U.S. alliance is thus very, very
important.  We have to strengthen this alliance to defend peace and
stability of the region.  That’s our belief.   
  
And in so doing, extended deterrence and response by the United States
must be reliable.  We have full confidence in response by the United
States, including extended deterrence.  And strengthening of Japan-U.S.
alliance is very important.   
  
And we truly hope that as many members of the general public will have
even deeper confidence on this alliance so that that in turn will lead
to regional peace and stability.  And I look forward to cooperating with
President Biden to that end.  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Our policy toward Taiwan has not — Taiwan — has not
changed at all.  We remain committed to supporting the peace and
stability across the Taiwan Straits and ensuring that there is no
unilateral change to the status quo.   
  
I would add that one of the reasons why it’s so important that Putin pay
a dear price for his barbarism in Ukraine: The idea that on your station
today and every other station in America they’re showing bombings of
every school — no — no military purpose — schools, hospitals, daycare
centers, all the things, museums — blowing up all the museums.  I
believe what Putin is attempting to do is eliminate the identity of
Ukraine — the identity.  He can’t occupy it, but he can try to destroy
its identity.   
  
And the reason I bother to mention that is: He has to pay and Russia has
to pay a long-term price for that, in terms of the sanctions that have
been imposed.   
  
And the reason I bother to say this — it’s not just about Ukraine: If,
in fact, after all he’s done there’s a rapprochement met between China —
I mean, excuse me, between the Ukrainians and — and Russia, and these
sanctions are not continued to be sustained in many ways, then what
signal does that send to China about the cost of attempting — attempting
to take Taiwan by force?  They’re already flirting with danger right now
by flying so close and all the maneuvers they’ve undertaken.   
  
But the United States is committed.  We’ve made a commitment.  We
support the One China policy.  We support all — all that we’ve done in
the past, but that does not mean — it does not mean that China has the
ability — has the — excuse me, the jurisdiction to go in and use force
to take over Taiwan.   
  
So we stand firmly with Japan and with other nations that — not to let
that happen.  And my expectation is it will not happen; it will not be
attempted.   
  
And my expectation is — a lot of it depends upon just how strongly the
world makes clear that that kind of action is going to result in
long-term disapprobation by the rest of the community.  
  
Q    Very quickly: You didn’t want to get involved in the Ukraine
conflict militarily for obvious reasons.  Are you willing to get
involved militarily to defend Taiwan, if it comes to that?  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Yes.  
  
Q    You are?  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  That’s the commitment we made.  That’s the commitment
we made.  We are not —  
  
Look, here’s the situation: We agree with the One China policy; we’ve
signed on to it and all the attendant agreements made from there.  But
the idea that — that it can be taken by force — just taken by force — is
just not a — is just not appropriate.  It will dislocate the entire
region and be another action similar to what happened in — in Ukraine. 
And so, it’s a burden that is even stronger.   
  
Thank you very much.  Appreciate it.   
  
Q    Thank you, Mr. President.  
  
MODERATOR:  (As interpreted.)  Thank you very much.  This will be the
end of the joint press conference by Prime Minister Kishida and
President Biden.  Thank you very much for your cooperation.   
  
2:58 P.M. JST
