---
date: '2022-05-11'
published_time: 2022-05-11 16:19:44-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/05/11/remarks-by-president-biden-on-supporting-farmers-and-american-families/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on Supporting Farmers and American\_Families"
---
 
O’Connor Farm  
Kankakee, Illinois

1:15 P.M. CDT

THE PRESIDENT:  Hello, hello, hello.  Is this one working?  There you
go.  Please, sit down. 

One of the things I want to put to rest — everybody looks at me and
says, “Have you ever been on a farm?”  And I remind them that that no- —
what nobody knows: I come from the state of Delaware; I represented
Delaware for 36 years in the United States Senate before I became Vice
President.  The single-largest industry in Delaware and the Delmarva —
Delaware, Maryland, Virginia peninsula; that peninsula that goes down —
is agriculture.  It’s a $4 billion industry.  Four billion dollars —
that whole peninsula.

And we have more chickens than there are Americans.  (Laughter.)  More
broilers.  And so, you know, I’ve been very — let me put it this way: If
I didn’t know something about farms, I’d have been a United States
senator for 6 years, not 36 years.

But every part of the country is different.  Every part of the country
is different.

But before I go on, I want to pay a little bit of a tribute to this guy
right here.  I’m going to embarrass you a little bit.  This is the man
who happens to be the son of the owners of this farm.  And this guy is
doing — you know, there’s an old expression: God made man and then he
made a few firefighters.  Not a joke.  Firefighters are incredible.  Who
else runs — who else is crazy enough to run into flames, you know?

But all kidding aside, what you’re doing in terms of helping
conservation as well out in Wyoming is astounding.  It really is. 

I’ve been to — I don’t want to make you stand.  I’m sorry.  The — but
the whole point of my raising this is — and we’re not going to be able
to talk much about it today — but conservation is also pretty darn
important and climate is pretty important.

I’ve been to every major fire but two this year, because FEMA is working
again.  We show up; we don’t wait.  We don’t have to wonder.  Governors
only have to call me once.

And here’s the deal: More timber, more land, more buildings, more
territory has been burned to the ground this year than the entire state
of New Jersey, from New York all the way down to Virginia.  The entire
state of New Jersey.

And so, what this young man does is — amazing what they do, trying to —
and it relates to lack of water in most of the places I’ve flown over —
those reservoirs that were 200 feet deep that are now two inches deep. 
Literally, not figuratively.

So one of these days, I want to come back and talk to you all about
conservation as well and climate.

But thank you for what you’re doing, man.  You’re — I really mean it. 
Thank you.  (Applause.)

Folks, I know it’s hot in here, so I’m not going to talk more than an
hour and a half.  (Laughter.)

Look, I want to make a few I think are fairly important points.

First of all, I want to thank Jeff for that introduction and — and you,
Gina, for your hospitality you’ve extended today.

I joined Congresswoman Robin Kelly here — the real champion of working
families and farmers — who represents this area, and I just do what she
says.  She sends a note to the White House, and I get it done.  No, but
she’s a key player on infrastructure — getting high-speed Internet,
clean water to every person across this district.

And I know we — wanted to be here also was Dick Durbin and Tammy
Duckworth, but they — and I mean they were going to come, but there’s a
vote today in the United States and they’re unable to be here.  They’re
one of the — they’re two of the most genuine, reliable people that I’ve
ever worked with, and I’ve been doing this for a few days.

And I want to thank Tom Vilsack.  Tom and I became friends when Tom was
governor in Iowa.  We traveled the state.  And Tom has forgotten more
about farming than most people will ever learn.  I’m sure this rooms
knows as much, but the idea — Tom talks about how critically important
that agriculture is to the United States in every single, solitary way.

But the real reason I’m here is to thank the American farmers — thank
farmers.  You feed America.  You get us through — you got us through a
pandemic.  And you’re literally the backbone of our country.  It’s not
hyperbole.  But you also feed the world.  And we’re seeing with Putin’s
war in Ukraine, you’re like the backbone of freedom.

You know, I was at factory not long ago, a couple — eight days ago, down
in Alabama.  And they make Javelin missiles to help the Ukrainians stave
off the Russians, beat them back in their aggression.  And I pointed out
that — the proof point that America is the arsenal of democracy.  That’s
what they are.  We always have been.  We’ve been the arsenal of
democracy.

And I stand here today to thank American farmers who are the — who are
the breadbasket of democracy.  You really are.

You know, we talk about — you know, every investment banker could leave
their job.  If every farmer left, we’d all starve to death.  You know,
let’s talk about what’s important to us.  Everybo- — all these jobs are
important.

But I — just think about it: Right now, America is fighting on two
fronts.  At home, it’s inflation and rising prices.  Abroad, it’s
helping Ukrainians defend their democracy and feeding those who are left
hungry around the world because Russian atrocities exist.

And Jeff and the American farmers understand Putin’s war has — has cut
off critical sources of food.  Ukraine was the world’s largest producer
of wheat and corn and cooking oil — but wheat, the largest.

For example, Ukraine says they have 20 million tons of grain in their
silos right now — 20 million tons.  And guess what?  If those tons don’t
get to market, an awful lot of people in Africa are going to starve to
death because they are the sole — sole supplier of a number of African
countries.  Somalia — I won’t go through them all.

But the point is this: that because of what the Russians are doing in
the Black Sea, Putin has warships — battleships preventing the access to
Ukrainian ports to get this — this grain out, to get this wheat out. 

The brutal war launched on Ukrainian soil has prevented Ukrainian
farmers from planting next year’s crop and next year’s harvest. 

And they’re not doing too damn — darn well in Russia either.  Russia is
the second-largest producer.

And — but we’re doing something about it.  And our farmers are helping
both — on both fronts, reducing the food — cost of — price of food at
home and expanding production and feeding the world in need.

You know, I just toured Jeff’s beautiful family farm — 800 acres of
soybeans, corn, and wheat.  We talked about farmers all across America —
what they’re experiencing today.

In addition to Putin’s war in Ukraine, it’s been cold and wet this
spring, like it is cold today.  (Laughter.)  We waited for 90-degree
weather until I showed up here.

But, look, many farmers in the Midwest have been put behind the eight
ball because of that.  But it kept them from getting into their fields
and planting crops.

But as Jeff just shared, American farmers always find a way.  They
always feel something extra — a spark of patriotism.  And that’s not
hyperbole.  A spark of patriotism.  A sense of never giving up, of
always finding a solution.

To all of our farmers, I want you to know: Your congresswoman, me, the
Secretaries of my Cabinet — we have your back.  Robin has your back. 
She’s always looking at what’s going on in the agricultural world. 

For example, we’re reducing the red tape so it’s easier for farmers to
conserve inputs and double crop. 

For folks at home who don’t know what “double cropping” means:
harvesting two different crops from the same field in the same year. 
And that’s what Jeff does with wheat and soybeans, which America is a
top producer of — soybeans.

And wheat will be harvested around July 4th, if all goes well, God
willing, and “the crick not rising,” as my grandfather would say. 

But, look, then you plant soybeans on the same acreage.  And he’ll tell
you, double cropping comes with some real risks. 

The growing season for wheat is short, and if the weather conditions
aren’t ideal or aren’t at least good, or there are other disruptions,
then the timing of everything is thrown off.  But it’s a risk we need to
take.

That’s why my administration is looking at how to extend crop insurance
coverage to give financial security to farmers like Jeff who practice
double cropping.

Secondly, I want to also — farmers are worried about raising fer- —
rising fertilizer costs and what is the content of the fertilizer. 
That’s why, earlier this year, the U.S. Department of Agriculture
announced it would invest $250 million to boost fertilizer production.

Literally on the plane out here, on Air Force One, I turned to Tom and I
said, “Tom, double that.  Make it $500 million.  It’s so desperately
needed.  We can’t take chances.” 

It’s critical to get this done.  Now, when we — when we leave here
today, I’m heading up to Chicago.  You know where Tom is going?  He’s
getting — he’s heading to the airport — when we get to Air Force One —
he’s heading to Germany, to the G7.  That is all the democracies in
Europe getting together and their agricultural teams getting together. 
North America, Europe, and Asia — they’re all part of it.  And what — to
solve some really big problems. 

They’re going to see what actions we can take to increase fertilizer
suppliers globally and identify how we can work together to prevent
export restrictions on food and agricultural inputs and bring more
global production to market, which will stabilize prices and bring more
certainty to our farmers and keep people from dying of hunger.

You know, this builds in other ways as well.  My administration has been
working to drive down the costs to farmers — and Tom mentioned it a
little bit — and prices to consumers.

To reduce gas prices last month, I was in Iowa — a biofuel processing
plant — at a biofuel processing plant.  And I announced an emergency
waiver to allow E15 gasoline to be sold across America during the
summer.  It’s an extraordinary effort, but it had to be done for this
summer. 

E15 uses more ethanol on crops grown here in Illinois and elsewhere
around the country.  And it can reduce the cost of a gallon of gasoline
at the pump by 10 cents per gallon.  Every little bit matters. 

I know it’s a big deal.  And Robin is a big supporter of this, and she’s
pushing it in the House as well.  Only four big companies, by the way,
control more than half the markets for beef, pork, and poultry. 

Without meaningful competition, our farmers and ranchers have to pay
whatever the four big re- — retailers are saying they’ll pay for their
chickens, their hogs, and their cattle.  These big companies can use
their position as middlemen to overcharge grocery stores and,
ultimately, families. 

Just consider this: Fifty years ago, ranchers got over 60 cents on every
dollar spent to produce the beef they raised.  Today, they get 39 cents.

Fifty years ago, hog farmers got 40 to 60 cents for each dollar the
family spent raising that hog.  Today, it’s about 19 cents. 

And as big companies made massive profits, the prices you see at the
grocery stores have gone up and the prices farmers receive has gone
down.  This reflects a market distorted by the lack of competition. 

So last year, I signed — one of the first executive orders I signed was
the — the competition on a — to make competition more available and
level the playing field.  And though the American Res- — through the
American Rescue Plan, we’re investing about $1 billion to help smaller
meat processors expand their capacity; give farmers, ranchers, and
consumers more options and be- — better prices. 

Look, I’m a capitalist.  But capitalism without competition is not
capitalism.  It’s exploitation.  It’s exploitation. 

Folks, we can make sure that American agricultural exports will make up
for the gap in Ukrainian supplies.  In fact, during my first year in
office, American agriculture exports shattered all previous records:
$177 billion last year alone. 

I remind people: My predecessor did not come close.

By traveling in our — you know, by — we can’t — we have to keep
investing in our farmers to reduce the costs, to reduce prices to
consumers, and have the most productive, most efficient farmers in the
world here in the United States. 

We’ve always combined generations of know-how with cutting-edge
technology to feed us and the world. 

And I’m going to keep fighting for family farmers like Jeff so they can
do what they do best.  I hope Congress is going to join me — I know
Robin is going to fight like hell to have it happen — in working hard to
invest in farmers like Jeff and feed America and the world.  That’s what
we have to do.

Let me close with this: Look at the family farms like this one as a
reminder of the bounty, beauty, and generosity of this nation. 

I know this — and you’re tired of hearing me say this for the last two
years.  It’s never, ever — I always —

I was on the Tibetan Plateau with Xi Jinping.  I’ve traveled with him
and spent more time with him than any other world leader has in China.

And he said — he was talking about why America is a diminishing power. 
And I said, “Mr. President, it’s never been a good bet to bet against
the American people.  No one has ever won betting against the American
people.”

And I said, “And, by the way, you asked me…”  He went on and he said,
“Can you define America for me?”  Just me and a translator, and him and
a translator.  Simultaneous translation. 

By the way, I turned all my notes over to the State Department. 
(Laughter.)  It matters.

But, you know, what happened was, he said, “Can you define America for
me?”  And this is the God’s truth because — been quoted a thousand times
now.  I said, “Yes, one word: possibilities.” 

We’re the only nation in the world — the only nation in the world that
has come out of every crisis stronger than we went in it, every single
time, regardless of what it was.  No other nation has done that.

It’s one of the reasons why in some places we’re called the “ugly
Americans.”  We think we can do anything.  We know we can do anything. 
We know.

This nation leads the world.  We stand up for freedom.  We’re the United
States of America.  And when we are united, there’s not a damn thing we
can’t do.  That’s not hyperbole.  It’s a fact.  As a student of history,
it’s a fact.  There’s nothing beyond our capacity when we work
together.  Nothing.

So, I’m here to say: God bless our farmers.  And I mean this sincerely. 
God protect our firefighters.  And may God protect our troops. 

Thank you for what you do.  America owes you.  They owe you big. 
(Applause.) 

1:30 P.M. CDT
