---
date: '2022-05-09'
published_time: 2022-05-09 16:22:31-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/05/09/remarks-by-president-biden-on-the-affordable-connectivity-program%ef%bf%bc/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks By President\_Biden\_on the Affordable Connectivity\_Program\uFFFC"
---
 
Rose Garden

1:47 P.M. EDT  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Hello, everyone.  Welcome to the sunny Rose Garden. 
(Applause.)  Thank you, thank you, thank you.  
  
That old saying, “All that needs to be said has already been said, but
I’m going to say it again.”  (Laughter.)  
  
Look, Alisha, thank you very much for your story.  
  
And I wanted to — I want to thank the Vice President, Vice President
Harris, for leading this effort and this administration on this
issue.   
  
And I’m proud to announce today that our administration has brought
together Democrats, Republicans, the private sector to lower the
high-speed Internet costs for tens of millions of Americans.  
  
You know, but before we get into the details, I want to talk about why
this matters.  You already know that, actually, from hearing my two
colleagues speak before me.  
  
But here in the United States of America, how many times have you seen a
mom or a dad drive up to a parking lot outside a McDonald’s and — just
so they could get connected to the Internet so their kid could do their
homework during the pandemic, literally?  It’s just not right.  It’s not
who we are.  
  
And we saw, during the pandemic, how essential high-speed Internet
really is in allowing seniors to connect with their doctors through
telemedicine, as the Vice President referenced, when it wasn’t safe to
go in person; allowing students to keep learning back when schools were
closed; allowing millions of — millions workers to do their job
remotely; allowing small businesses to stay afloat on the strength of
their online sales; allowing farmers to use precision agriculture
technology to improve their yields; and allowing countless families to
stay connected to the people they love, even when they weren’t able to
get together.   
  
You know, the need for high-speed Internet is — is a little bit like
what used to be probably what my grandfather talked about: needing to
have a telephone.  It’s pretty consequential.  And it’s only going to
keep growing, this need.  High-speed Internet is not a luxury any
longer, it’s a necessity.   
  
And that’s why the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law included $65 billion to
make sure we expand access to broadband Internet in every region of the
country — urban, suburban, and rural — everywhere — everywhere —
(applause) — so every household in America can get connected.  
  
By — by expanding access it’s only — it’s only part of the challenge,
though, as was referenced by the Vice President.  It was about
affordability as well.  And today, too many families simply can’t afford
to get connected, even if there’s access to get connected.  So they go
without high-speed Internet or they sacrifice other necessities in order
to make it work.   
  
That’s why — that’s why, in November, when we passed the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Bill, we also created something called the Affordable
Connectivity Program.  I refuse to call it the “ACP.”  (Laughter.)  I am
so tired of acronyms in Washington.  I can’t stand it.  (Applause.)  I
cannot stand it.  But I’m going to have to learn, aren’t I? 
(Laughter.)   
  
Here’s how it works: If your household income is twice the federal
poverty level or less — that’s about $55,000 per year for a family of
four or $27,000 for an individual — or a member of your household is on
Medicaid or Supplemental Security Income or a number of other programs,
you’re eligible to — for affordably connect — the Affordable
Connectivity Program.   
  
Nearly 40 percent of the households in America qualify.  And if you
qualify, you’re going to get a $30 credit per month toward your Internet
bill, which me- — which most folks — will mean they get on for nothing. 
Look — zero.     
  
Let me explain: In the past, 30 bucks a month meant you had to settle
for a slow Internet service, unless you wanted to pay a heck of a lot
more out of pocket.  But over the last few months, my administration has
worked closely with Internet providers — this is a case where big
business stepped up — urging them to cut their prices and raise their —
their speeds.  

I’m trying to get others to do the same thing with inflation but that —
these guys are the best.  (Laughter.)

Well, look, we secured commitments from 20 providers — most of whom are
here in the garden today.  Going to lower prices for high-speed Internet
for tens of millions of households.  So, now families who are eligible
can select a plan from pr- — a participating provider and receive
high-speed Internet at no cost, in most cases.  
  
These include providers like AT&T.  Is AT&T here?  Thank you, man. 
(Applause.)

AT&T, Comcast — Comcast, where are you?  Stand up, man.  Let them see
you.  Frontier, Spectrum, and Verizon.  (Applause.)  Thank you, thank
you, thank you.  You’re really changing people’s lives.  You really
are.    
  
Along with smaller providers serving rural areas, like Jackson Energy
Authority in Tennessee and Ideatek in Kansas.  (Applause.)  Are you guys
here?  Thank you.  Thank you, thank you, thank you.      
  
All told, providers taking part — you know, everybody — it’s — you’re
going to cover about 80 percent of the United States’ population,
including about half the rural population.  Each of the — each of them
has committed to offering families who use this program at least one
high-speed plan that is fully covered.   
  
For example, Verizon lowered the price of its high-speed service from
$40 a month to $30 a month.  Spectrum doubled the speed of its
$30-a-month plan for eligible households.  And we made sure that there
would be no hidden fees, no tricks.  This is straight stuff.    
  
This means fast Internet, good download speeds, with no data caps and no
extra fees for millions of American families.      
  
And it’s going to change people’s lives.  You know, in — from rural
Appalachia to Brooklyn to the Black Belt.  Families who have struggled
to get the Internet that they need — even getting — finding if they
could connect to it, let alone if they could afford it — for schoolwork,
telemedicine, standing a — starting a business, and so much more — and
will finally get connected reliably and affordably.  
  
And I want to thank the companies who are working with us to deliver
this for all families.  It’s a big deal.  And this is a great example of
what we can achieve if the federal government and the private sector
work together to solve serious problems.  (Applause.)

And this is — not only is it this great news for family budgets, it also
means more jobs, more new small businesses, more connectivity.  So many
people in so many communities that have been left behind.  Already, more
than 11.5 million have signed up and are on the program.  Thousands more
are signing up each day.  And you can get started by taking advantage of
this — in this new phase today.  

They’re — but we urge — there’s about 30 million additional people who
are eligible for this plan that basically get free Internet and good
Internet.  We want each of you — each and every one of you to take
advantage of the chance and cut your Internet cost.

To find out if you’re eligible, you can dial 877-384-2575.  Now, if you
got that, you’re way ahead of me.  (Laughter.)  877-384-2575, and — for
English or Spanish.

Or if you’re able to get onto the Internet, just visit, Get- — just go
to GetInternet.gov, and you’ll be able to connect as well.  
  
You know, we’re also working with local, state, and federal agencies, as
well as local and national organizations, to help get more eligible
families enrolled so they can get connected.  You got to know how to
know, as a friend of mine used to say.  You know, this program is a big
deal.  It’s the only one — only one piece of work that we’re doing to
try to bring down the cost of high-speed Internet to every single
American.   
  
We’re also promoting the — competition.  More than 65 million Americans
live in a place with only one high-speed Internet provider.  Research
shows that when you live somewhere with limited Internet options, you
pay five times more on average than families that have more choices. 
That’s what the lack of cont- — lack of competition does: It raises the
prices you pay.  So, we’re working to fix that problem as well.  
  
For example, my administration is taking steps to put a stop to the
exclusive deals that landlords make with Internet companies.  Because
\[of\] those sweetheart arrangements, millions of Americans who live in
apartment buildings only have one Internet option.  And they — they can
stop — if they can stop those exclusive deals, then families will have
options to choose a provider that they want, and that means companies
will have to compete for their business, which in turn means lower
prices.      
  
In addition, more than 30 million Americans live in places where the
speeds are too slow or where there is no broadband and there’s no
infrastructure at all.  That’s especially true in rural communities. 
And as I said at the start: Thanks to the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law,
we’re delivering high-speed Internet infrastructure to every part of the
country.  And I mean that literally — every part of the country.   
  
The bottom line is this: My top priority is fighting inflation and
lowering prices for families and the things they need.  Today’s
announcement is going to give millions of families a little more — a
little more breathing room to help them pay their bills.    
  
You know, we worked with Democrats and Republicans and business and
non-profits to make this happen.  And we’re going to keep working to
fight inflation and lower cost of — to all American families for a lot
of other things as well.    
  
But again, I want to thank the businesses that are here today.  I want
to thank the Internet companies — or the providers.  It really matters. 
You’re going to change people’s lives.   
  
And, by the way, you know, one of the things that is — it’s a totally
different subject, and I’m just going to touch it for a second.  There’s
an awful lot of growing data that what’s happened because of COVID and
other things — the mental health problems are — have become a serious
problem.  Feeling left out, feeling you can’t participate, not knowing
what to do.  
  
I know — and Vivek Murthy, the Surgeon General, is going to talk about
this in another context.  But, you know, I really think that just
knowing that you belong, knowing and feeling that you can get access to
what other people get on a regular basis will make a big difference for
people.   
  
So, God bless you all.  And may God protect our troops.  And all the
members of Congress who made this happy — I was going to name each one
of you, and I was told don’t, because people who aren’t here wanted to
be here.  (Laughter.)  But I — but I think I should name you anyway,
shouldn’t I?  I mean — no?  (Laughter.)  Well, I don’t know, man.  
Anyway.  (Laughter.)  
  
They’re all in the front here, and they’re all doing a hell of a job. 
(Applause.)   
  
I started off – and I had the list, I said, “Give me the…”  And I
started off with saying, “Cheri Bustos.”  And they said, “Wait, there’s
a lot of people who aren’t here.  Don’t do it.”  Anyway.  But I — and
the people who are here are, you know, John Hickenlooper, Cheri Bustos,
Dan Kildee — (laughter) — Debbie Dingell, Tom O’Halleran, Eliza \[sic\]
Slotkin — excuse me, Elissa Slotkin, and — and Representative
Stansbury.  So — but there’s a lot more to it, but anyway. 
(Applause.)   
  
Thank you.  It’s going to make a big difference.  Thank you, everybody. 
And stick around and sunbathe.  (Laughter.)  All right.  Thank you. 
(Applause.)  
  
2:00 P.M. EDT
