---
date: '2022-05-18'
published_time: 2022-05-18 16:14:31-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/05/18/remarks-by-president-biden-before-briefing-on-interagency-efforts-to-prepare-for-and-respond-to-hurricanes/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden Before Briefing on Interagency Efforts to Prepare\
  \ for and Respond to\_Hurricanes"
---
 
Joint Base Andrews  
Prince George’s County, Maryland

2:02 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, folks, first of all, concluding this tour with
Admiral Linda Fagan, Vice Commander of Coast Guard — soon to be the
Commander of the Coast Guard; and Administrator Spinrad of NOAA, it — it
really is amazing what — what you all do to protect us, and it’s
astounding.  I still marvel at the idea that somebody jumps out of a
perfectly good helicopter in the middle of the ocean to save people. 
But it really is amazing what you all do.

You know, I met with some of these brave women and men who perform these
high-risk missions — and they are — trying to help not only deal with
but predict the hurricanes — the severity of them, where they’re going
to land, and flying right into the heart of them.

I — including the dedicated personnel from the Air Force, NOAA, the
Coast Guard, who help warn about hurricanes that are forming and predict
their strength, what they’re likely to be, and — and keep Americans
safe.

But it’s not going to — this job is not going to slow up anytime soon. 
It’s likely to get — I’m here to get a read on what’s going to happen,
what the hurricane season this year is going to look like.  But we’re
prepared for the upcoming hurricane season.

My message to all Americans is straightforward: We know hurricanes are
coming our way.  They grow more extreme every season thus far.  Pay
attention to the hurricane warnings.  And, and, and — follow — follow
the guidance of your local authorities.

While you do everything you can to protect yourself and your families, I
promise you we — all of us here — are going to do everything we can to
protect you.

Our top priority is to help Americans prevent, prepare, and respond in
every community to what we’re going to — what’s going to happen.

And our — you know, one of our charges is — well, put another way, one
the changes I directed is that — to ensure that the piles of paperwork
and the bureaucratic excuse — excuses we’ve — been used in the past
sometimes don’t stand in the way of getting to help the most
disadvantaged communities as fast as possible. 

And I know it’s not preventing but, in the aftermath, you know, you’ve
done an incredible job.  You’ve done an incredible job of making sure
we’re not leaving anybody behind.  Thank you.

And I — unfortunately, I’ve visited too many devastated areas with you —
hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, et cetera.  You do an incredible job.

And that’s why HUD and Marcia Fudge, Secretary of HUD; and the SBA
Administrator Isabel Guzman is — briefed me today, along with FEMA and —
and Administrator Criswell.

In 2021, it was the third-most active hurricane season ever recorded,
including the first hurricane to hit the Northeast in 30 years, killing
more than 100 people and causing billions — billions of dollars in
damage. 

And given the climate crisis, it’s likely to — we expect another tough
hurricane season.  And storms are going to be more intense, and we’re
going to have shorter notice, as we saw last year with Hurricane Ida.  
  
That’s why the work of these women and men is so important.  And we’re
going to continue to ensure Hurricane Hunters and their partners have
what they need to get their job done.

  
It’s about — this isn’t about red states and blue states; it’s about
helping communities prepare, having their back when the hurricane
strikes, and being there to help, being the — there to help clear the
roads, rebuild the Main Streets so families can get back to their
lives.  
  
And so, we don’t have a moment to lose.  But I want to thank the leaders
and the personnel assembled here for all the work you do, and I mean
that sincerely.  And I look forward to hearing from you.  
  
And I’ve had the opportunity to, with notable exception — I can only
think of one — visit every serious area that has been affected by fires,
hurricanes, tornadoes.   
  
You know, as I was talking to Deanne, our Administrator, yesterday, you
know, we’ve lost more territory burned to the ground because of fires —
forest fires than the entire state of New Jersey, from the New York
border all the way down to the end of New Jersey, more has been lost. 
It’s an enormous amount of damage.  And the firefighters are risking
their lives and losing them sometimes.   
  
So, I wish everybody — I think they do know, but I wish they knew how
serious, how prepared, and how much risk all of your folks take in order
to get things done.  
  
So, thank you, thank you, thank you.  And I’m ready to be briefed on all
you have to tell me.  And — and I’m sure you’re going to tell me, “No
hurricanes this year.”  (Laughter.)  But —  
  
Q    Mr. President, how will you convince Turkey to support Sweden and
Finland’s NATO bid?

THE PRESIDENT:  I’m going to — I’m going to say one thing.  I’m going to
be — I got a call months ago from the President of Finland, wanted to
come and see me.  I saw him.  He told me what he was thinking about. 
And then I got a call that both the leader of Finland and Sweden are
coming to see me on Thursday.  I think we’re going to be okay.

  
Q    You can convince Turkey to accept their bid?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  I — I think — I’m not going to Turkey, but I think we’re
going to be okay.  
  
Thank you.  
  
2:08 P.M. EDT

  
