---
date: '2022-05-16'
published_time: 2022-05-16 18:42:23-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/05/16/remarks-by-president-bidenand-prime-minister-mitsotakis-of-greecebefore-bilateral-meeting/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_BidenAnd Prime Minister Mitsotakis of GreeceBefore Bilateral\_\
  Meeting"
---
 
Oval Office

3:39 P.M. EDT

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Well, Mr. Prime Minister, welcome.  It’s great to have
you here.  And later this afternoon, we’re going to celebrate 201 years
— 201 years of Greek independence and strong ties of family and shared
democratic values with the United States, and a burgeoning personal
friendship between you and I.  You’ve been wonderful.

The democratic ideals that we so cherish originated in Greece, as we all
know, inspired by our founders who were students of Greece, and for
centuries has empowered —

(A cell phone interrupts.)  Someone is playing music.  Anybody want to
make that phone call?  (Laughter.)  There you go.  Thank you.  It
happens all the time.  Don’t worry about it.

Sadly, Russia’s brutal attack on Ukraine is also about a threat to
democracy from autocrats who want to bear down on rules-tested orders
and — rules-based orders.

I want to thank you, Mr. Prime Minister, for Greeks’ moral leadership
here.  It’s not easy, I know.  But thank you. 

And we have much to discuss today on our ongoing support for Ukraine,
our deepening defense and trade partnerships, energy security, climate
change, and so much more.

Today, the friendship and partnership between our countries, between
Greek — the Greeks and Americans is, I think, more important than ever. 
And I’m honored to celebrate that partnership with you because you’ve
been a good friend.  So, welcome. 

The floor is yours. 

PRIME MINISTER MITSOTAKIS:  Thank you.  Thank you very much, Mr.
President, for these kind words.  It is indeed a privilege for me to be
here in the United States to celebrate with you 201 years since the
beginning of our War of Independence.

As you know, your founding fathers were inspired by the ideals of
Athenian democracy, and our founding fathers were inspired by the
struggle for independence on these — on these lands.  And over the past
two centuries, our two countries have always been on the right side of
history.  We fought in wars together.  And, of course, we are now
facing, united, the challenge of Russia’s invasion into Ukraine.

At the same time, this visit is an opportunity to reassess the status of
our relationship.  I honestly believe it is at an all-time high.  And
I’m not just speaking about the defense component of the relationship,
but I’m also speaking about trade investment — Greece’s role as a
reliable partner in the eastern Mediterranean, as a country that
overcame the financial crisis with a booming economy, and as a pillar of
stability both in the Balkans and in the broader region. 

So, when we talk about issues such as energy security, there’s so much
more we can — we can do together.

And I’m very, very happy to be here with you to discuss these important
topics and, later, to be able to address also your many Greek-American
friends.  And I know how close your ties are to Greeks and Greek
Americans.  And it’s a privilege to have them here at the White House.

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Well, I’m delighted you’re here.  Thank you.  And I
look forward to our discussion.

3:43 P.M. EDT
