---
date: '2022-05-03'
published_time: 2022-05-03 13:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/05/03/remarks-by-president-biden-before-air-force-one-departure-15/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden Before Air Force One\_Departure"
---
 
Joint Base Andrews  
Prince George’s County, Maryland

11:24 A.M. EDT  
  
Q    What do you think of the ruling — or the draft that leaked, sir?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Well, first of all, I just got a call saying that it’s
been announced that it is a real draft, but it doesn’t represent who’s
going to vote for it yet.  I hope there are not enough votes for it.  
  
It’s the main reason why I worked so hard to keep Robert Bork off the
Court.  It reflects his view almost — almost word — anyway.  
  
Look, the idea that — it concerns me a great deal that we’re going to,
after 50 years, decide a woman does not have a right to choose within
the limits of the Supreme Court decision in Casey, number one.  
  
But even more equally as profound is the rationale used.  And it would
mean that every other decision relating to the notion of privacy is
thrown into question.   
  
I realize this goes back a long way, but one of the debates I had with
Robert Bork was whether — whether Griswold vs. Connecticut should stand
as law.   
  
The state of Connecticut said that the privacy of your bedroom — you — a
husband and wife or a couple could not choose to use contraception; the
use of contraception was a violation of the law.  
  
If the rationale of the decision as released were to be sustained, a
whole range of rights are in question — a whole range of rights.  And
the idea we’re letting the states make those decisions, localities make
those decisions would be a fundamental shift in what we’ve done.  
  
So, it goes far beyond — in my view, if it becomes a law and if what is
written is what remains, it goes far beyond the concern of whether or
not there is the right to choose.  It goes to other basic rights: the
right to marry, the right to determine a whole range of things.  Because
one of the issues that this Court — many of the members of the Court — a
number of the members of the Court have not acknowledged is that there
is a right to privacy in our Constitution.  
  
I strongly believe there is.  I think the decision in Griswold was
correct overruling; I think the decision in Roe was correct, because
there’s a right to privacy.  There can be limitations on it, but it
cannot be denied.  
  
Q    Do you think this leak has irreparably changed the Court?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Beg your pardon?  
  
Q    Do you think that this leak has irreparably changed the Court? 
We’ve never seen this happen before.

THE PRESIDENT:  You know, if — if this decision holds, it’s really quite
a radical decision. 

And, again, the underlying premise — and, again, I’ve not had a chance
to thoroughly go into the report — the decision.  But it basically says
all the decisions related to your private life — who you marry, whether
or not you decide to conceive a child or not, whether or not you can
have an abortion, a range of other decisions — whether or not — how you
raise your child —

What does this do — and does this mean that in Florida they can decide
they’re going to pass a law saying that same-sex marriage is not
permissible, that it’s against the law in Florida?

And so, there’s a whole — it’s a fundamental shift in American
jurisprudence if it were to hold.

Q    Mr. President, should the Senate do away with the filibuster to
codify Roe?

THE PRESIDENT:  I’m not — I’m not prepared to make those judgments now
about — but, you know, I think the codification of Roe makes a lot of
sense.

Look, think what Roe says.  Roe says what all basic mainstream religions
have historically concluded — that the right — that the existence of a
human life and being is a question.  Is it at the moment of conception? 
Is it six months?  Is it six weeks?  Is it — is it quickening, like
Aquinas argued? 

I mean, so the idea that we’re going to make a judgment that is going to
say that no one can make the judgment to choose to abort a child based
on a decision by the Supreme Court, I think, goes way overboard.

Q    What does this mean for the midterms?  What does this mean for the
Democrats’ argument in the midterms?

THE PRESIDENT:  I haven’t thought that through yet.

Q    Do changes need to be made to the Court in light of this, if this
decision holds?

THE PRESIDENT:  I beg your pardon?

Q    Do changes need to be made to the Court in light of this, if this
decision holds?

THE PRESIDENT:  We have to choose — I mean, look, one of the reasons why
I voted against a number of the members of the Court: They refuse to
acknowledge that there’s a 9th Amendment.  They refuse to acknowledge
there’s a right to privacy.

I mean, there are so many fundamental rights that are affected by that. 
And I’m not allo- — I’m not prepared to leave that to the whims and the
— and the — of the public at the moment in local areas.

Thank you so much.

11:29 A.M. EDT
