---
date: '2022-05-16'
modified_time: 2022-05-16 14:42:16-04:00
published_time: 2022-05-16 14:41:24-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/05/16/remarks-by-president-biden-at-the-medal-of-valor-ceremony/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at the Medal Of\_Valor\_Ceremony"
---
 
East Room

11:52 A.M. EDT  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you, General.  Thank you very much.  And welcome
to the White House, everyone.

The Attorney General Garland’s introduction is incredibly worthwhile. 
We’re here to recognize your leadership and all you’ve done.  

You know, we’re also joined by Deputy Attorney General Lisa Monaco — is
here — and the Drug Enforcement Agency, Anne Milgram.  Where’s Anne? 
Anne is in the back.  

And I would like to thank members of Congress here today: Senator Chris
Murphy — Chris.  And I also want to — Jim — Jimmy Himes — Jim Himes is
here with us today.  And Congressman Adriano Es- — *Espla-nat*.  And —
Espaillat — excuse me.  You can call me *Bid-en*.  (Laughter.)  We’ve
known each other so long, and I still stumbled.  I apologize.

It’s good to see you all.

And, you know, they represent members of — and the districts that many
of you are from.

And, of course, we’re honored to be joined by law enforcement and
firefighter leaders from all across the country.

We can never fully thank you for your service or for your sacrifice. 
But today is an important day for the nation to give thanks for all that
you do for everymony \[sic\] — for all of us.

Because of COVID-19, we couldn’t have this special ceremony for the past
two years.  But I’m honored that we finally can today honor 15 — 15
public safety officers from eight different departments with the Medal
of Valor, the highest award a President can bestow on a public safety
officer.

This designation reads, and I quote: “For action above and beyond the
call of duty; and exhibiting exceptional courage, extraordinary
decisiveness and presence of mind, or unusual swiftness \[in\] action,
regardless of his or her personal safety, in an attempt to save or
protect human life.”  End of quote.

That’s valor.  That’s valor.

To the honorees: I — I don’t know all of you personally, but I do know
you.

Growing up, you’re the ones who, when we were outnumbered three to one,
you jumped in.  No, you did.  I — I grew up in a neighborhood where you
either became a cop, a firefighter, or a priest.  I wasn’t qualified for
any of them, so here I am.  (Laughter.)

But, you know, and you jumped in to help the one.  Not a joke.  Think
about — and your parents can attest to it.  You were the ones to run
into help when everyone else ran away, even before you became involved
in firefighting or law enforcement.

As adults, you’re the first ones to volunteer to coach a Little League
team or shovel your neighbor or elderly neighbor’s driveway or walkway
when it snows.

You’re the heart and soul and the very spine — the very spine of this
country and your communities. 

Each one of you, from small-town departments to big cities, you’re cut
from the same cloth.  You possess a selflessness that’s really hard to
explain.  A rare commitment to your neighbors and your fellow
Americans.  An unusual bravery that inspires everyone.  And — and you’ve
been singled out because of your extraordinary heroism.

In a few moments, a full citation of your valor will be read.  But this
is who you are.  You plunged into icy lake waters and dove into choppy
oceans to save people who were drowning.  You faced a hail of gunfire to
save your colleagues.  You climbed burning buildings to save a baby and
more than 100 senior citizens.  You drew fire to yourself — to yourself
— to save a hostage.

And you did all this without concern for your own safety, thinking only
of somebody else — the other. 

You know, you’ve gone above and beyond.  I think it’s instinctive. 
Because this job isn’t just what you do, it’s who you all are.  It’s
really who you are.  

But we also know you didn’t do this alone.  To the parents who are here
today, you get — you set a standard for remarkable public safety
officers.  They didn’t just get this by osmosis; they got it through all
of you.  Something about the example you set made them want to do what
they do.

I want to thank you moms and dads here for teaching your children the
values that we honor today, because what we’re honoring is their basic
values.  

And I want to — I want to thank the spouses and the children of the
honorees.  It takes a special person to marry or a child — to be the
child of a firefighter or a law enforcement officer.  How many times
have you sat in front of the steps of the house when the city lights
have gone out, and you turn to your husband or your wife, holding your
kids and say, “We’ll be fine.  We’ll be fine.  Go do your job.  Go do
your job”? 

You know, when your loved — when your loved one puts on that shield and
walks out the door each day, every family member dreads the possibility
of receiving that phone call, knowing the uncertainty that faces you as
they walk out the door.

So today, from the bottom of our hearts, we thank you, the spouses, the
children of the public safety officers.  And I really mean it.  

And there are two families in particular I want to acknowledge.  Two of
our honorees, Officer Jason Shuping and Lieutenant Jared Lloyd, are not
with us today because they gave their lives in the full service to their
communities and this nation.

To their families — unless you would rather not, I’d like you to stand
so everybody can see you.  (Applause.)

On behalf of the American people, my wife Jill and I want to extend our
love.  We know from personal but different experience that these events
are really bittersweet.  It brings everything back as if you just got
the news.  You’re proud, but it’s hard. 

Just yesterday, I stood at the United States Capitol for the
National <s>Police</s>\[Peace\] Officers’ Memorial Service to pay
tribute to hundreds of fallen heroes.  And I was joined by the President
of the Fraternal Order of Pres- — Police, Patrick Yoes, who is here
today.  I don’t know where Patrick is, but I know he’s here today.

There you go, Patrick.  Thank you for yesterday, and thank you for
today. 

We pay tribute to all the law enforcement officers and their families
who understand what it takes, what’s at risk to save and protect all of
us. 

And that includes paying tribute to the Buffalo Police Officer Aaron
Salter — <s>Slater</s> \[Salter\], excuse me — who gave his life trying
to save others when a gunman shot and killed 10 innocent people in a
grocery store in Buffalo on Saturday.  He actually was able to shoot the
assailant twice, but he had on a — he had on a bulletproof vest.  And he
lost his life in the process. 

No one understands more than all of you here today the pain and anguish
those families in Buffalo feel.  But if they were pulled into a — as if
— when it happens, at least in my experience, you feel like you’re
pulled into a black hole inside your chest and everything — everything
you can’t — and it’s hard. 

But as you know, you’re part of a special community — a special
community because the firefighters and police officers will always be
there for you.  I know it’s a small consolation, but they’ll always be
there for you and your family and your children and your grandchildren
and the whole family.

To talk about law enforcement being a family, about firefighters being a
family, it’s real — just like being a military family.  It’s
unbreakable.

  
There is a headstone in a cemetery in Ireland that reads: “Death leaves
a heartache no one can heal, love leaves a memory that no one can
steal.”

To the families of the fallen, no one can ever steal the memory of your
loved one. 

And I hope the day will come when the memory of your lost dad, son,
husband brings a smile to your lips before it brings the tear to your
eye.  I promise you, it will come, but, you know, my prayer is it comes
sooner than later. 

You know, I want to say a special thanks to the — to you all for being
here because I know it’s hard and — but understand all the people in
this room and all the people listening, they understand the sacrifices
that not only that — that your spouse made, your son made, but you make
every day. 

And all the families that are here — like I said, when that alarm goes
off, when the bell sounds, you all wish them well, but you know and you
worry.  Thank you for all you do. 

I’d like to conclude with this.  There is an incredible group of 15
heroes.  I know you don’t do this work for recognition, but you reflect
the best part of who we are as Americans.  These medals reflect the
profound gratitude of our nation.  It’s the highest medal that can be
honored. 

So, God bless you all.  May God protect our firefighters and law
enforcement officers and their families everywhere.

And it’s now my honor now to award these medals and ask the military
aides to read the citations.  Thank you.  (Applause.) 

  
MILITARY AIDE:  Assistant Chief Ryan Sprunger.  

Assistant Chief Ryan Sprunger of the East Wayne, Ohio, Fire Depart- —
District was off duty when he responded to a call about several
individuals who fell into a frozen pond.  Without any thermal protection
and equipped with nothing but a throw rope, Assistant Chief Sprunger
jumped into the freezing water to rescue the victims: a grandfather and
his two grandchildren.  He pulled the grandfather and one child out, and
guided medics who arrived to the second child, demonstrating
extraordinary courage to save lives.  (Applause.)

(The Medal of Valor is presented.) 

Officers Ryan Smith, Vincent Mendoza, and Robert Paul. 

Officers Ryan Smith, Vincent Mendoza, and Robert Paul III of the
California Highway Patrol were caught in a gunfight with a violent
assailant who had shot and killed their colleague in an unprovoked
attack during a traffic stop.  The officers went to incredible lengths
to protect each other, even as Officer Smith and Officer Paul each
sustained multiple gunshot wounds to their legs.  Officer Mendoza
engaged the suspect so his wounded colleagues could evacuate safely, all
three of them demonstrating bravery and composure while enduring a
deadly rampage.  (Applause.)

(The Medals of Valor are presented.)  (Applause.)  

Firefighter Abraham “Abe” Miller. 

Firefighter Abraham Miller of the New York City Fire Department
rappelled down — down the roof of a burning residential building,
without a solid anchor for his rope, to rescue a five-year-old girl
being held out a window by her grandmother.  Firefighter Miller smashed
the glass, reached through heavy smoke, and saved the little girl as
they were lowered six floors to safety, demonstrating brave and decisive
action to save lives.  (Applause.)

(The Medal of Valor is presented.)  (Applause.)  

Haylee Shuping, accepting on behalf of fallen Officer Jason Shuping; and
Officers Kyle Baker, Paul Stackenwalt, and Kaleb Robinson.

Fallen Officer Jason Shuping and Officers Kyle Baker, Paul Stackenwalt,
and Kaleb Robinson of the Concord, North Carolina, Police Department
engaged a suspect in a busy retail area who opened fire on the officers
and took a woman hostage.  The officers fired at the suspect to turn
attention away from their colleagues and shielding each other with their
own bodies until they ended the threat.  During the gunfight, Officer
Shuping paid the ultimate sacrifice.  All four men demonstrated
courageous action in a volatile encounter with a gunman to protect the
public.  (Applause.) 

(The Medals of Valor are presented.)  (Applause.)

Deputy Sheriff Dalton Rushing.

Deputy Sheriff Dalton Rushing of the Perry County, Ohio, Sheriff’s
Office plunged into a frozen lake to rescue a person who had fallen
through the ice and remained stuck in hypothermic conditions for 45
minutes.  When the victim couldn’t grab on — on to him and said he was
prepared to give up, Deputy Rushing tied a rope to the victim and
submerged himself into the icy water until rescuers could pull them both
to shore, demonstrating courageous action and uncommon poise to save
lives.  (Applause.)   

(The Medal of Valor is presented.)  (Applause.)

Sabrail Davenport, mother of Fallen 2nd Lieutenant Jared Lloyd.

Fallen 2nd Lieutenant Jared Lloyd of the Spring Valley, New York, Fire
Department repeatedly rushed into a burning nursing home to carry out
elderly residents who couldn’t escape in their wheelchairs and walkers. 
Along with his team, Lieutenant Lloyd rescued all 112 residents.  As
flames engulfed the building, Lieutenant Lloyd ran back in one more time
to make sure no residents were trapped, ultimately sacrificing his life
as the building collapsed and demonstrating heroic actions to protect
innocent civilians.  (Applause.) 

(The Medal of Valor is presented.)  (Applause.)

Firefighters John Colandro, Michael Rosero, and Chad Titus.

Firefighters John Colandro, Michael Rosero, and Chad Titus of the
Stamford, Connecticut, Fire Department <s>drove</s> \[dove\] into
freezing water during a blizzard to rescue two trapped occupants of a
truck that was rapidly sinking below the waterline.  After rescuing one
victim, the truck fully submerged and, facing strong offshore winds, the
rescul- — rescuers then broke a glass window while underwater and
successfully pulled the remaining passenger out to safety.  All three
men demonstrated extraordinary courage to save accident victims. 
(Applause.)

(The Medals of Valor are presented.)  (Applause.)

Officer Anthony Giorgio.

Officer Anthony Giorgio of the Pensacola, Florida, Police Department,
while on a beach vacation with his family, heard screams coming from the
water as swimmers were pummeled by tall, crashing waves.  Officer
Giorgio ran into the dangerous rip current and brought a child back to
shore.  He then jumped back in the water several more times and, in
total, swam approximately 300 yards and successfully rescued two
children and one adult in distress, putting himself in grave danger to
save lives.  (Applause.) 

(The Medal of Valor is presented.)  (Applause.)

THE PRESIDENT:  A vacation he’ll never forget.  (Laughter.)

I would like to give one last round of applause to the recipients of the
Medal of Valor.  (Applause.)  

Thank you all for your service and sacrifice. 

And may God bless you, keep you safe.  And may God protect all
firefighters and all police officers.  Like I said, you’re — you’re the
character of the country, and you’re the best of all of them.  Thank you
all for being here.  Appreciate it.  (Applause.)  

ANNOUNCER:  Ladies and gentlemen, please remain in your seats as the
President departs.  

THE PRESIDENT:  (Inaudible.)  (Off-mic.)  (Laughter.)  Thanks,
everybody.  I really mean it.  (Applause.)  (Inaudible.)  Thank you.

12:18 P.M. EDT
