---
date: '2022-05-13'
modified_time: 2022-05-13 21:20:51-04:00
published_time: 2022-05-13 21:20:50-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/05/13/remarks-by-president-biden-at-the-u-s-asean-special-summit/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks By President\_Biden\_at the U.S.-ASEAN Special\_Summit"
---
 
State Department  
Washington, D.C.

4:16 P.M. EDT  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Well, thank you.  (Applause.)  My whole name.  Thank you
all very much.  Good afternoon, everyone.  I said last night — let me
reiterate: It’s been wonderful, wonderful to host you all in the
first-ever U.S-ASEAN Summit in Washington, D.C.   
  
And besides, Mr. President, the food wasn’t bad.  It was pretty good. 
We haven’t had — been ha- — been able to have, essentially, state
dinners in a long time because of COVID.  But thank you all for being
there.   
  
We’re not only celebrating 45 years of partnership and friendship
between ASEAN and the United States, we’re launching a new era — a new
era in U.S.-ASEAN relations.   
  
Let me thank Prime Minister Hun Sen and — for the 22 — as the 2022 ASEAN
Chair.   
  
And President Widodo, I want to thank you as well — the Country
Coordinator for ASEAN and U.S. Dialogue Relations — and — and for all
the hard work to make this summit, I believe — I hope you believe — a
success.  
  
Over the past two days, we’ve spent time with members of –you — you’ve
spent time with members of Congress, the American business community. 
You just finished a good session with the Vice President.  And you’ve
met with a number of our Cabinet members.  And I wanted you to be as
exposed as you could and understand there’s enthusiasm — that it’s not
just at the President’s level and the Vice President’s level, but
throughout the entire administration — for this relationship and — and
bettering it.  
  
You know, discussions have covered a broad range of critical issues,
including working together to keep the fight against COVID under control
and to take climate action.    
  
And by the way, I see Secretary Kerry down there.  And, John, thanks for
letting me into your old house.  (Laughter.)  Appreciate it.  John has
forgotten about — more about, in my view, the needs we have for climate
security than anyone that I know.  Thanks, John, for being here.  I want
to talk about that a little bit as we go into this here — in this — the
rest of the day.  
  
Discussions have covered a broad range of critical issues, including
working together to keep up the fight against COVID-19; to take climate
action and pursue a clean energy future; build a sustainable,
high-standard infrastructure; and to expand access to education; enhance
maritime cooperation.   
  
And — and the breadth of our discussions reflect just how vital the
Indo-Pacific and ASEAN region are to the United States of America, from
our perspective.  
  
And a great deal of history — the great deal of history of our world in
the next 50 years is going to be written and the ASEAN countries and our
relationship with you is the future in the coming years and decades.   
  
The ASEAN centrality is the very heart of my administration’s strategy
in pursuing the future we all want to see.  And I mean that
sincerely.   
  
The — the Indo-Pacific is an Indo-Pacific that is free and open, stable
and prosperous, and resilient and secure.  It’s what we’re all
seeking.  And that’s why I asked \[Vice\] President Harris to travel to
the region last August.  And that’s why, last October, at our virtual
summit, I announced $100 million to support — for programs to strengthen
U.S.-ASEAN cooperation.   
  
And today, I’m announcing another $150 million of initiatives to deepen
U.S.-ASEAN relations and achieve more — our — even better our shared
objectives from the Coast Guard to climate change to — to modern
infrastructure.  There’s a whole range of things that we have to work
on.   
  
And I’m also proud to announce that I have nominated one of my closest
advisors to be U.S. Ambassador to ASEAN: Yohannes Abraham.  I know
you’ve already all seen him.  But, Yohannes, you got to come back once
in a while and say hi to us.  
  
Yohannes served as the Chief of Staff of the National Security Council
since the first day of my administration.  And so, this is a fellow who
I’m a little concerned to send in because he knows how I think.  You
know, I mean, he knows so much about me, I’m a little worried.   
  
But all kidding aside, he is — I think you’re going to find him
completely knowledgeable and he speaks for — will speak for me and speak
for my administration.    
  
Yohannes is — I wish him luck.  He’s a — he’s the key reason why I think
we — this summit has been the success it has.  I presume to believe you
believe as I do: It has been a success thus far.  And he’ll be a trusted
representative and — to continue deepening this critical partnership
among all of us.   
  
We’re committed to a future where the rules and norms that have made
possible so much growth and prosperity and stability in the Indo-Pacific
are upheld and strengthened, including respect for the rule of law and
for human rights.  
  
This is something that benefits all one billion of the people who live
in our countries, from the United States and all of you.  And as we look
around the world — all the challenges we’re facing — the ASEAN-U.S.
partnership is critical, I think, to meeting the moment we find
ourselves in history right now.  
  
And so, let me thank you again for making the journey to Washington to
celebrate the enduring friendship we share and to look ahead at all that
I believe — we all believe — we can accomplish together and how much
more we can do.  
  
We’ll continue to elevate this partnership and strengthen our
cooperation and to make a better, safer, and more prosperous world for
all our children.   
  
So, thank you, thank you.  Thank you very much.  
  
4:22 P.M. EDT
