---
date: '2022-05-24'
published_time: 2022-05-24 10:44:32-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/05/24/remarks-by-president-biden-and-prime-minister-narendra-modi-of-the-republic-of-india-before-bilateral-meeting/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden and Prime Minister Narendra Modi of the Republic\
  \ of India Before Bilateral\_Meeting"
---
 
Kantei,  
Tokyo, Japan

2:36 P.M. JST

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Well, Mr. Prime Minister, it’s a pleasure to see you
again here in Japan.  We just finished, I thought, a very productive
morning together at the Quad Leaders’ Summit. 

And our — on our video call in April, you highlighted the need for
democracies to deliver.  I think that’s what we’re doing today.  We’re
talking about how to deliver through the Quad and the U.S.-India
cooperation as well.  And so, we’re delivering for our people and for
the wider world.

Do I want to stop for interpretation? 

INTERPRETER:  Yes, sir.  Yes, sir.

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  I think it’s a good idea.  (Laughter.)

And here in Tokyo, we announced two new initiatives — the Indo-Pacific
Economic Framework and the Indo-Pacific Maritime Domain Awareness
program — that’s going to bring India and the United States together
with other nations to reflect our vision for a more open and more
prosperous, connected, and secure world.

I’m pleased that we’ve reached agreement for the U.S. Development
Finance Corporation to continue its important work in India supporting
vaccine production, clean energy initiatives.  And I am also glad we’re
renewing the Indo-U.S. Vaccine Action Program.

We also discussed the ongoing effects of Russia’s brutal and unjustified
invasion of Ukraine and the effect it has on the entire global world
order.  And the U.S. and India are going to continue consulting closely
on how to mitigate these negative effects.

I’m looking forward to continuing our conversation today.  Mr. Prime
Minister, there’s so much that our countries can and will do together,
and I am committed to making the U.S.-India partnership among the
closest we have on Earth.

Thank you.

PRIME MINISTER MODI:  (As interpreted.)  Mr. President, it’s always a
pleasure to meet you.  And today, we also participated together in a
very positive and useful Quad Summit.

The India-America strategic partnership is, in the true sense, a
partnership of trust.

Our common interests — our common interests in defense and other
relations — in defense and other matters, and our shared values, have
indeed strengthened this bond of trust between our two countries.

Our people-to-people relations and our strong economic cooperation makes
our partnership even more unique. 

Our trade and investment relations are also steadily on the rise, but
they are still well below potential. 

I am absolutely confident that with the conclusion of the India-USA
Investment Incentive Agreement, we will see concrete progress in
investment between our two countries.

We’re also increasing bilateral cooperation in the domain of
technology.  And even on global issues, we cooperate closely.

We both share similar views on the Indo-Pacific.  And at the bilateral
level, as well as with likeminded countries, we continue to work to
protect our common concerns.

The Quad and the IPEF are two important examples of this cooperation. 
And I believe that our discussions today will give even further speed to
this positive momentum.

I’m absolutely sure that the India-U.S. friendship will continue to be a
force for good, for global peace and stability, for sustainability of
the planet, and for human development.

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  So am I.  Thank you.

2:45 P.M. JST

              
