---
date: '2022-05-02'
published_time: 2022-05-02 18:40:58-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/05/02/remarks-by-president-biden-at-a-reception-to-celebrate-eid-al-fitr/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at a Reception to Celebrate Eid\_al-Fitr"
---
 
East Room

4:22 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT:  Mom, with your permission — you boys can come up on
stage if you want. 

AUDIENCE:  Awww —

THE PRESIDENT:  Come on.  Don’t worry, he’s coming.  (Laughter.)

(Children are brought on stage.)

Well, welcome to the White House, guys.  (Laughter.)  Welcome to the
White House.  And Eid Mubarak.

AUDIENCE:  Eid Mubarak!

THE PRESIDENT:  I’m honored to welcome Representatives Tlaib and
Carson.  I think they’re here.  (Applause.)  I see a hand going up back
there.  All right.

And although she can’t be here today, I also enjoyed seeing
Representative Omar over the weekend.

And, look, welcome to the members of the diplomatic corps and to the
elected representatives and community leaders all across the country,
the thinkers, and activists.  And it’s great to have you here in the
White House, all working to make our nation and our world stronger and
more inclusive.  I emphasize “inclusive.”

And if you’ll excuse a point of personal privilege, I want to — is — is
Madinah Wilson-Anton here?

STATE REPRESENTATIVE WILSON-ANTON:  Yeah, I’m here.  (Laughter.)

THE PRESIDENT:  Welcome.  It’s good to see you.  She represents the
state of Delaware, by the way.  (Applause.)

And I want you to know she works at the University of Delaware, at the
Biden Institute.  (Applause.)  So, we call that “using a point of
personal privilege.”  (Laughter.)  And there have not been many senators
from Delaware.  It’s a small state.  As a matter of fact, there’s never
been one.  (Laughter.)  And so, I want to take advantage of it by making
sure I introduce her.

Jill and I are so glad to host all of you on this joyous occasion.  You
know, we send our warmest greetings celebrating Eid all across the
United States and, quite frankly, around the world.

One of the promises I made when I ran for office is that I was to
restore this annual celebration, because it’s important.  It’s
important.  Sadly — (applause) —

Sadly, last year, because of the pandemic, we had to hold a virtual
event.  This year, thanks to the progress we’ve made fighting the
pandemic, we can fully honor my promise.

And it’s in no small part thanks to the courage and commitment of many
Muslim frontline workers and first responders — many of them.  Many. 

And to the brilliant Muslim scientists who helped pioneer the technology
for COVID-19 vaccine — don’t forget that either.  (Applause.)  Not only
helping people here but people around the world.

At the same time, we know that that it’s a bittersweet day for many —
too many families.

You know, even as we celebrate Eid and mark the end of the holy month of
Ramadan, we also, in our hearts, have those families who lost a loved
one to the pandemic.  
  
And, by the way, I was telling the doc — you know, there’s a lot of
similarities between all the three major religions here.  But I want you
to know you have a slight advantage in Ramadan.  For Lent, I got to go
40 days.  (Laughter.)  Forty days with no sweets and no ice cream. 
(Laughter.)  And I did it.  Forty.  (Laughter.)  It’s harder, guys.  You
know what I mean?  (Laughter.)  
  
Anyway, throughout the past month, Muslims have fasted each day from
dawn to dusk.  And — while — you know, while exercising the patiences of
discipline can be a solitary act, it also is something that strengthens
community bonds.  It helps communities stick together.  Communities are
— is essential — essential to the celebration of Ramadan and Eid.

You know, whether breaking your fast with friends or family, or joining
neighbors in acts of volunteering, or gathering for nightly communal
prayers special to the month of Ramadan, this is a time to reflect not
just on oneself and one’s faith but on the entire community — a whole
community.

You know, through their fast, Muslims demonstrate empathy for suffering
of others, strengthening and renewing their resolve to give generously
and to make the world a better place — better for all who suffer.  And I
mean that sincerely.  I’ve witnessed it around the world.

This year, for the first time in decades, three Abrahamic faiths all
celebrate their holy days at the same time.  Think about that.  The same
time.  That’s a message, guys.  (Laughter.)  No, I really mean that.  I
think — I really believe it. 

Ramadan.  Passover.  Easter.  And each a time of celebration for the
light that has triumphed over darkness and — and for death giving way to
renewal of life.

You know, each of us remember the work that remains to be unfinished
here on Earth — and there’s a lot of it — to which God calls all his
children.  You know, that we should strive to show kindness and mercy,
understanding to one another.  And that we should do unto others as we
wish to have done — do unto us.  Sound familiar?  Sound familiar in
every language.  It’s similar.

Today, we celebrate the incredible stories of the indispensable
contributions of Muslims all across this great nation. 
Muslim-Americans, a diverse and vibrant part of the United States,
making invaluable cultural and economic contributions to communities all
across the nation.

You know what I think it’s about?  I think you understand the sense of
empathy.  How can you move without empathy to understand?  Teachers,
counselors, mentors helping young people achieve their full potential.

By the way, I don’t know which one of you guys is going to be President,
but, you know — (laughter) — if I were you, I’d be Secretary of State. 
(Laughter.) 

Anyway, all kidding aside, look at these young men.  They can be
anything they want in this country, if we’re smart.  Anything.  Anything
at all. 

And members of the military, first responders serving with such
distinction, keeping us safe at home and abroad.  Public servants across
this country and across the administration who are leading the work to
address the challenges of our time.

I’ve said it from the beginning that my administration — and I meant it
and I proved it — is going to look like America — look like America —
(applause) — really — with Muslim Americans serving at every level.  And
it does.

Muslim Americans in my administration have key roles in

tackling the climate crisis, rebuilding our economy, safeguarding our
health, restoring our alliances, and so much more.

And I’m incredibly proud to have nominated the first Muslim American
ever confirmed to the federal bench.  (Applause.) 

And I’ve appointed the first Muslim to serve as 

Ambassador-at-Large for International Religious Freedom.  (Applause.)

And it’s especially important because today, around the world, we’re
seeing so many Muslims being targeted with violence.  No one — no one
should discriminate against oppressed — or be oppressed for their
religious beliefs.  Nobody.  Nobody.  (Applause.)

So, today, we also remember all those who are not able to celebrate this
holy day, including Muslim and Ro- — excuse me — and including Uyghurs
and Rohingyas and all — all those who are facing famine, violence,
conflict, and disease. 

And we honor — we honor the signs of hope and progress toward the world
we want to see, including the ceasefire, which allowed the people in
Yemen to honor Ramadan and celebrate Eid in peace for the first time in
six years.  (Applause.)

But at the same time, we have to acknowledge that an awful lot of work
remains to be done abroad and here at home.

Muslims make our nation stronger every single day, even as they still
face real challenges and threats in our society, including targeted
violence and Islamophobia that exists.  I mean, it’s just astounding. 
And — well, I won’t go into it.  Anyway — (laughter) — I won’t get —

Making our own nation more equitable, more inclusive for Muslim
Americans is an essential part of the enduring work

to form the more perfect union.  That’s what we seek.

You know, we’re the only nation in all the history of the world that’s
been organized not based on a religion, race, ethnicity, geography, but
on an idea.  Think about that.  An idea.

“We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men \[and women\] are
created equal…endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable
rights…life, liberty, the pursuit of happiness” — et cetera.

We’ve never met that goal, but we’ve never walked away from it — except
one brief moment, and we’re back.  And we’re back and making —
(applause) — no, I really mean it.

And the resilience of Muslim Americans enriching the fabric of this
nation is testament to Quran’s teaching: We have made you into nations
and tribes so that you may know one another.  The last part: so you may
know one another.

Our differences should not be obstacles that divide us but opportunities
to learn from one another.

You know, it was mentioned earlier — excuse the diversion here — but
when I became Chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee — I’m a — if
you come to my home, in my library you’ll see a lot of contemporary
theology and comparative theology.  And I’m just — been interested in it
my whole career. 

And I realized how little I knew about the details of Islam.  I knew — I
knew about it, but I didn’t know the difference that existed.  I didn’t
know what the hidden Imam — I mean, I — so I went out and I hired a full
professor — a professor of Islamic studies who came to work with me. 

He thought he was only staying a year.  Every Wednesday, he had lunch
with me.  And he said, “How much more do you need to know?”  (Laughter.)

But all kidding aside — I really mean it — I really mean it — it was a
chance to seek out and build and celebrate a common community. 

So, let’s celebrate today as we move forward this year, holding this
teaching in our heart.

I am so proud to serve this community as your President, and I’m humbled
by all the amazing accomplishments reflected in this room in front of
me.  And I’m grateful to have this opportunity to join together today to
renew our common commitment to shared values.

Thank you.  And God bless you.  May God bless America.  And may God
protect our troops.  Thank you.  (Applause.) 

 4:33 P.M. EDT
