---
date: '2022-05-21'
modified_time: 2022-05-21 19:53:40-04:00
published_time: 2022-05-21 19:52:48-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/05/21/remarks-by-president-biden-and-president-yoon-suk-yeol-of-the-republic-of-korea-in-joint-press-conference/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden and President Yoon Suk Yeol of the Republic of\
  \ Korea in Joint Press\_Conference"
---
 
The People’s House  
Seoul, Republic of Korea  
  
(May 21, 2022)

4:18 P.M. KST

PRESIDENT YOON:  (As interpreted.)  Mr. President Biden, it is my honor
to welcome you to the Republic of Korea. 

At this summit, we shared the goal of developing the ROK-U.S. alliance
into a global, comprehensive, strategic alliance, and we discussed
relevant actions to that end.  Moreover, we engaged in a candid
conversation, building friendship and trust.

Today, I also realized that President Biden and I see eye-to-eye on so
many fronts.  Over the past 69 years, the ROK-U.S. alliance has evolved
into the linchpin of peace and prosperity in the region. 

Now, a longstanding mission of denuclearizing North Korea, as well as
the COVID-19 crisis, shifting trade order, supply chain realignment,
climate change, democracy in crisis, and numerous other new challenges
confront our alliance.  These challenges can be tackled only when
countries sharing the universal values of a liberal democracy and human
rights come together. 

The ROK- U.S. alliance sets an exemplary model of such solidarity. 
Korea and the U.S., as global comprehensive strategic allies, stand
ready to meet these challenges collectively and shape a rules-based
order in that process. 

These aspirations that President Biden and I share are well reflected in
the joint statement we’re adopting today.  In the negotiations leading
up to the joint statement, our two countries’ deputies have exhibited
trust and partnership, which I note with appreciation. 

A sustainable peace on the Korean Peninsula is underpinned by a
principled and consistent policy towards North Korea.  In lockstep
coordination with the Biden administration, I commit to resolutely
safeguard peace on the Korean Peninsula and encourage North Korea to
come forward for dialogue and engage in practical cooperation.  I will
exert diplomatic endeavors to that end.

We, as the leaders of the two countries, reiterated our common goal of
the complete denuclearization of the DPRK.  There is no compromise for
security.  Under this shared belief, we concurred that strong deterrence
against North Korea is paramount. 

President Biden affirmed the ironclad U.S. commitment to the defense of
the Republic of Korea and substantive extended deterrence.  At the same
time, our two countries hope to see North Korea take the path towards
genuine denuclearization.  Together with a community of nations, we
pledge to spare no diplomatic efforts to that end. 

U.N. Security Council resolutions will also be faithfully and fully
implemented together with other countries.  The door to dialogue remains
open if North Korea genuinely embarks upon denuclearization.  In
partnership with the international community, I am prepared to present
an audacious plan that will vastly strengthen its economy and improve
the quality of life for its people. 

Currently, North Korea is struggling with a COVID-19 crisis.  Putting
aside political and military considerations, I am more than willing to
provide assistance from humanitarian and human rights perspectives.  I
call on North Korea to respond to this proposal positively and begin
taking practical steps towards denuclearization.

We live in an era where economy is security and security, in turn, is
economy.  Supply chain disruptions resulting from a change in global
security order are directly linked to the lives of our people. 

To adapt to the new reality, the ROK- U.S. alliance must also evolve
further — not just with words, but with actions.  We should ceaselessly
strive to deliver real benefits that can impact the peoples of our two
countries. 

President Biden and I — in the field of semiconductors, batteries, civil
nuclear power, space development, cyberspace, and other emerging
industries — agree to step up our practical cooperation. 

Market shocks stemming from a shifting international order will also be
actively addressed through our collective response.  And as a first
step, our Offices of the President will launch an economic security
dialogue so that in supply chains, advanced science and technology, and
other areas of economic security, our two countries can have timely
communication and cooperation. 

An orderly and well-functioning foreign exchange market is crucial to
sustainable growth and financial stability.  To that end, President
Biden and I decided to engage in even closer consultation. 

For advanced reactors and small modular reactors development and export
promotion, our two countries’ civil nuclear industries committed to work
together. 

Moreover, our two nations, with regard to the defense industry now
emerging as a future growth engine, concurred to initiate discussions on
a reciprocal Defense Procurement Agreement that can be likened to an FTA
in the defense sector.

Korea, amid the ravages of war, achieved a remarkable growth with the
help of the United States and the wider international community.  The
world now recognizes us as an advanced democracy, the 10th-largest
economy, and a cultural powerhouse.

We stand ready to proactively fulfill the role expected of us by the
international community to honor our responsibility and commitment.  
  
The Indo-Pacific is a region important to both our countries.  Our two
nations will work in concert to build a rules-based order in the
Indo-Pacific.  And taking that first step is to participate in the
Indo-Pacific Economic Framework.  
  
With a view to expanding our contributions and roles in the region, we
will also work to formulate a relevant strategy.  
  
Our two countries, in response to immediate global challenges, will
pursue even closer coordination.  
  
A tragedy brought on by Russia’s invasion of Ukraine must be resolved
swiftly so that the people can return to their peaceful, normal lives.  
  
To that end, Korea and the United States decided to cooperate vigorously
with the international community.  
  
Building on the KORUS Global Vaccine Partnership, Korea will actively
join the global fight against COVID-19.  A Global Health Security
coordinating office will be established in Seoul as a way to contribute
to sustainable global health security.  
  
In addressing the existential threat to humanity posed by climate
change, our two countries will endeavor to achieve our 2030 greenhouse
gas reduction targets and 2050 net-zero emission goals through even
greater coordination.  
  
The friendship and trust I have forged with President Biden today will
pave the way for further reinforcing our bilateral partnership for a new
era.  Towards this goal, I hope our two countries will engage in
frequent communication and close consultation with each other.  
  
Thank you.  
  
Next, we’re going to invite the President of the United States for his
statement.

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Thank you for all the time that you gave me today,
particularly our private conversations and the incredible hospitality
and welcome we’ve received.  
  
I’m honored to be able to be — to meet you so early in your tenure, and
it’s a pleasure to get to know — get to know you personally.  
  
I’m delighted to be back in your beautiful country and at a time when
the alliance between the Republic of Korea and the United States has
never been stronger, more vibrant, or, I might add, more vital. 

And I believe that this trip is coming at a particularly interesting
moment, because we’re seeing so many expectations in Asia and the
broader Indo-Pacific region being updated.  I — I’m looking forward to
it even occurring more.  
  
My administration is pursuing an economic strategy designed to grow our
economy from the bottom up and the middle out, and it’s paying
dividends.  Even in the face of historic economic challenges, our
economy is providing and proving to be resilient.

In fact, just yesterday, an independent analysis projected that the
American economy is poised to grow at a faster rate than China — than
the Chinese economy for the first time in 45 years, since 1976.

And our relationship with our allies — including, I’m proud to say, the
Republic of Korea — are closer than they’ve ever been.  And our people
are growing even closer as we speak.

Our businesses are blazing new trails together.  And — and it all goes
to my core belief, something I’ve said for a long time: It’s never a
good bet to bet against the United States of America.

We’re a nation that is all about one thing: possibilities.  Endless
possibilities.  And that optimism is a commitment and — commitment to an
innovation where breaking barriers is something that Koreans and
Americans share. 

Yesterday, the President and I visited a factory where Korean and
American innovation are working in tandem to produce the most advanced
semiconductors in the world.  And I welcome the billions of dollars of
investment that Korean companies like Samsung are making in the United
States — investments that will bring our two countries even closer
together, cooperating even more closely than we already do, and help
strengthen our supply chains, secure them against shocks, and give our
economies a competitive edge.

Today, President Yoon and I discussed the broad range of issues, as he’s
mentioned today — I apologize for repeating him — on both regional and
global terms.  The cooperation between the Republic <s>in</s> \[of\]
Korea and the United States is vital to our shared strategic progress —
at least, we both believe that.

From fighting this pandemic to strengthening global health security,
health systems, and so that we can better be prepared for the next major
global health event — and there will be others; from increasing our
climate ambitions to accelerating climate solutions, like development of
electric vehicles; from standing up to our shared — for our shared
democratic values and defending a rule-based international order against
threats in stability, our alliance is making important contributions to
shape the future for our children.  And Korea’s strong and its dynamic
economy is a powerful example of that for the rest of the world. 

I also want to thank the people of Korea for their strong support for
the people of Ukraine.

Putin’s war against Ukraine isn’t just a matter for Europe, it’s an
attack on democracy and the core international principles of sovereignty
and territorial integrity.

And the Republic of Korea and the United States are standing together —
part of a global response with our allies and partners around the world
— to condemn Russia’s flagrant violations of international law, and to
hold Russia accountable, and to support the people of Ukraine.

Tomorrow, the President and I will be visiting with the Korean and
American troops who are still serving side-by-side even today, decades
after our troops first fought valiantly together, to preserve the
freedom of the Republic of Korea.

It’s emblematic of our strength and our continuing strength, and of the
durability of our alliance and our readiness to take on all threats
together.

And today, President Yoon and I committed to strengthening our close
engagement and work together to take on challenges of regional security,
including addressing the threat posed by the Democratic People’s
Republic of Korea by further strengthening our deterrence posture and
working toward a complete denuclearization of the prin- — of the Korean
Peninsula, as the President has already spoken to; promoting stability
across the Taiwan Straits as well; and ensuring freedom of navigation,
including in the South China Sea and beyond.

So thank you again, Mr. President, for your warm welcome, for your
commitment to strengthening our alliance, and for explan- — expanding
our global partnership. 

I look forward to years to come.

Now, I believe — who asks the first question?

MODERATOR:  (As interpreted.)  Now we’re going to open the floor for
questions and answers.  The presidents of the two countries will be —
designate a person that will be asking questions.

Now we’ll be taking a question from — a Korean journalist will be posing
a question to the Korean president.  So please raise your hand, and the
president will designate a person for the question.

Q    (As interpreted.)  Thank you for this opportunity to pose a
question.  My name is Han Ji-hoon, Yonhap News Agency.

First, regarding the concept of economic security, a number

of Koreans find the concept pretty unfamiliar. 

So what are the benefits the Korean economy can gain from the economic
security promote — cooperation?  What are the real benefits that can be
experienced by the Korean people?  
  
And in addition to that, you talked about universal values — solidarity
and alliance — and you very much underscored that point.  But if there
are, for example, countries that cannot share those values — for
example, strong export regulations or controls that the United States is
imposing on other countries — do you think you can take — resort to
those measures as well?  
  
PRESIDENT YOON:  (As interpreted.)  As you may be very well aware,
economic security is probably something that you have already heard and
seen through various newspaper channels. 

Let’s say, for example, this is directly related to the livelihoods of
our people.  And important industrial goods, for them to be produced —
for example, let’s say that we’re trying to produce and manu- — a car —
the unique system of semiconductors.  And, for example, we had
(inaudible) water issues recently.  And so these are materials that are
critically needed for our daily lives as well as our industrial
production.  

And to secure stability in the supply chain is very much and directly
related to the lives of the people as well as the national economy.  And
this is, in turn, related to the national security as well as military
security.

And in the past, we had the WTO system that brought countries together
to form a free and universal trading order, but due to the COVID-19
pandemic and the formation of the blocks in the market, we see permanent
risks when it comes to the supply chain.  So it is very important to
stabilize the supply chain. 

And especially our two countries, the United States and Korea, we share
the values of democracy and human rights.  And among the likeminded
countries, they share the values that would be important to stabilize
the supply chain.  That is why we need to deal with the issue of
economic security. 

The NSCs of the Offices of the President are given that authority to
deal with this issue.  And, for example, if there are any difficult
issues to be resolved, then the two countries will be engaged in closer
cooperation for economic security.  And we decided to pursue this goal
going forward.  
  
In addition, if you look at the financial market or the foreign exchange
market, there could be possible shocks.  And when that happens, the two
countries can step in to help with each other, and also related to the
military security and also economic security.  Especially in relation to
the export of defense items, what the two countries hope to do is to
initiate the negotiations in this area so that we can pave the way for
promoting our cooperation in the specific fields.  
  
This is not just cooperation in terms of words or empty words — empty
promises.  It is going to be an alliance that takes action together. 
And we decided to evolve our alliance even further. 

And the United States and Korea, we advocate democracy, human rights,
and freedom.  And even those countries that are not sharing those
specific values, for the world peace, of course, we’re not trying to
exclude them in the process, but we want these countries to be embraced
in these universal values.

So, especially, we want to start this close solidarity and cooperation
among the likeminded countries and countries that share the values. 

MODERATOR:  (As interpreted.)  Now we’ll take the question from the
American journalist who will be posing questions to the American
President.  Please raise your hand.

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Trevor Hunnicutt.

Q    Thank you.  First of all, President Yoon, your joint statement
mentions a number of initiatives that you’ll be taking on the security
front, but it doesn’t mention whether you asked the President for
nuclear bombers, submarines, or aircraft carriers.  Are those of
interest to you?  And do you expect that the President will be deploying
them?

And for you, President Biden, there is no mention in the joint statement
about whether there would be any preconditions for you meeting with
North Korea’s Kim or providing vaccines to North Korea.  And so, I
wanted to see if there are any preconditions for that. 

And then, ahead of your meetings in Tokyo, I understand that they will
be asking for you to consider rejoining the TPP that was negotiated by
President Obama.  Could you talk a little bit about your thinking about
whether this Indo-Pacific Economic Framework can lead to a bigger trade
deal in the region?  Thank you.

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Would you like me to go first?

The answer with regard to would I meet — would I provide vaccines for
North Korea and would I prepare to meet: The answer is yes.  We’ve
offered vaccines not only to North Korea but to China as well, and we’re
prepared to do that immediately.  We’ve gotten no response. 

With regard to whether I would meet with the leader of North Korea, that
would be dependent on whether he was sincere and whether it was
serious. 

What was the other question you asked me?

Q    The TPP — the TPP and whether there’s room for a broader trade deal
to come out of the Indo-Pacific Economic Framework.  We understand that
Japan and others would like you to consider — reconsider joining.

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Well, I think what you’re going to see is — what we’re
talking about in terms of this — this arrangement we’re discussing now,
it’s — it’s quite significant.  And what we’re talking about is, as it
was pointed out, an economic strategy that — for the Ind- — the entire
Indo-Pacific region. 

And it’s working on — in critical areas in the supply chain, not just
the semiconductors, but a range of other products as well. 

Semiconductors, which is — we’ve already discussed a little bit. 

Infrastructure and making sure we make available the capacity to provide
modern infrastructure to many of the countries in the region who may not
have the capacity. 

Three, the — a digital economy, dealing with cybersecurity standards and
sharing major standards of data access, based on the boundaries within
trust.  And that we — that needs to be done, in our view.

As well as a clean and renewable environment, clean energy technologies,
a global minimum tax; the tax side of the equation, just like we — we
recently negotiated; and deal with establishing foreign product- —
practices act — effect internationally. 

All that is quite broad, and it is separate from and also semi-inclusive
of what the TPP was about.  So, this is the objective that I have in
mind — we have in mind at the front end here.

PRESIDENT YOON:  (As interpreted.)  A journalist from the U.S. posed me
a question regarding extended deterrence.  Let me address that
question. 

Every day, we’re seeing North Korea advancing its nuclear and missile
capabilities.  And President Biden and I shared grave concerns.  And
more than anything else, we believe that this is something that merits
our utmost attention.

President Biden also reiterated and reemphasized his commitment — the
U.S. commitment to effective extended deterrence.  And at the same time,
key to our combined defense capability is the combined military
exercises.  And we are going to step up our exercises, and we will be
coordinating between ourselves regarding the deployment of U.S.
strategic military assets.  We will take some time in coordinating
between ourselves.

And regarding the cyber threats or the threats emanating from North
Korea’s asymmetrical capabilities, we will continue to consult with one
another as to how to counter those threats. 

And at the same time, we will reactivate the EDSCG and we will continue
to advance and step up our high-level consultative mechanisms. 

I hope that I answered your question.

MODERATOR:  (As interpreted.)  So, we’re taking questions from Korean
journalists and American journalists.  But — so, we’ll go back to the
Korean journalists.  So please keep your question to just one item. 

Q    I am Cho Young-min from Channel A.  Thank you very much for giving
me this opportunity to pose a question.  We — this is an extension of
the previous question.

We talked about how to respond to the evolving nuclear threat of North
Korea, that you said that you’re going to present an action plan to
strengthen the effect of extended deterrence.  So, regarding that action
plan, I wonder what kind of specific discussions you had today.  Did you
see eye-to-eye on this action plan?

PRESIDENT YOON:  (As interpreted.)  In the past, when it came to
extended deterrence, we just talked about a nuclear umbrella.  That was
what I thought about extended deterrence in the past. 

But beyond that, there could be many other aspects, including fighters,
bombers, and missiles.  So, regarding the timely deployment of such
strategic assets, we did engage in the discussions today.

And going forward, I believe that there will be more concrete
discussions between our two sides.  That was our agreement, and it will
be between our NSCs. 

And also, as I already stated in the course of answering the question
from the U.S. journalist: In order to prepare against a possible nuclear
attack, our two countries combined military exercises, I believe, should
be stepped up in many aspects.  We had that discussion. 

Thank you.

MODERATOR:  (As interpreted.)  We are going back to the American
journalist posing questions to the American President.  This is going to
be the last question, so please keep your question to just one item.

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Seung Min, with the Washington Post.

Q    Thank you, Mr. President.  You are here in the region to promote
the United States economic cooperation with South Korea and Japan.  But
the two countries have been locked in a trade dispute, on top of their
bilateral relationship deteriorating for a number of reasons over in
recent years. 

So, what kind of a role would the United States play here in resolving
those and other disputes so that your administration can further your
goal of — of bolstering your economic alliance with the region?

And then I have a question for President Yoon.

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  You only get one.  (Laughter.)

Q    One per leader.

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  I’m protecting him.  (Laughter.)

The answer is that we discussed that in generic terms.  The fact is that
I’ll be going from here to Tokyo and discussing this as well.

I think it’s critically important that we have a very close trilateral
relationship, including economically as well as — as militarily.  And I
think you’ll see that there are ways to deal with some of the trade
barriers that were placed — some of which, by the way, were placed by my
predecessor, which we’re — we’re looking at very closely right now.  So,
I think there’s a lot of room to move.

In addition to that, if — you know, I think you covered the fact that I
spend a lot of time with the ASEAN nations, as well as the Quartet. 
There’s — there’s a whole range of — things have changed.  There is a
sense among the democracies in the Pacific that there’s a need to
cooperate much more closely — not just militarily, but in terms of
economically and politically.

And so, we talked in — at some length about the need for us to make this
larger than just the United States, Japan, and — and Korea but to the
entire Pacific and the South Pacific and the Indo-Pacific. 

And I think this is an opportunity.  You know, you’ve heard me say it a
hundred times — I’m sorry to the American press to repeat it — but I
really do think we’re at an inflection point in world history.  Things
are changing so rapidly.  I think you’re seeing that — what you’re going
to see more of is this is going to be competition between democracies
and autocracies.  And I mean that sincerely.  And, unfortunately, I
think I’m being proven to be correct — not just here, but around the
world.

And again, we talked at length about — this is a — not only just
regional, but it’s also a global alliance, in effect, of how we’re going
to respond. 

And I don’t mean a formal written alliance.  But, for example, if you
notice, Korea and Japan have both stepped up in support of Ukraine.  You
find that in — the Quad is supporting Ukraine. 

So, there’s a whole range of things that affect whether or not
democracies can be sustained in the midst of this incredible change that
is taking place.  We both agreed that it could and should be and that,
together, we can play a major part in having that done.

Thank you.  Appreciate it.

Q    Your Cabinet nominees are overwhelmingly male.  South Korea
consistently ranks low among developed countries on professional
advancement of women.  And you, yourself, during your presidential
campaign, proposed abolishing the Ministry of Gender Equality. 

What role should a leading world economy like South Korea play in
improving the representation and advancement of women?  And what will
you and your administration do to improve the state of gender equality
in this country?

PRESIDENT YOON:  (As interpreted.)  If you look at the public officials
sector, especially the ministers in the Cabinet, we really didn’t see a
lot of women advancing to that position thus far.  Probably in various
regions, equal opportunities were not fully ensured for women.  We have
actually a quite short history of ensuring that.  So, what we’re trying
to do is to very actively ensure such opportunities for women. 

MODERATOR:  (As interpreted.)  This concludes the joint press
conference.  The presidents of the two countries will leave the room
first.

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Thank you.

MODERATOR:  (As interpreted.)  This concludes the joint press conference
in the interest of time, and they have other schedules to attend to
later on. 

So, we would like to thank the journalists once again for their time
here and also for constructive questions. 

Thank you.

4:51 P.M. KST
