---
date: '2022-05-03'
modified_time: 2022-05-03 17:41:02-04:00
published_time: 2022-05-03 17:30:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/05/03/remarks-by-president-biden-on-the-security-assistance-to-ukraine/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on the Security Assistance to\_Ukraine"
---
 
Lockheed Martin Pike County Operations  
Troy, Alabama

2:03 P.M. CDT

THE PRESIDENT:  I tell you what, Linda: If I were CEO of this company,
I’d be worried.  (Laughter.)

Well, good afternoon, everybody.  And thank you, Jim, for the invitation
to be here today and, Linda, for the warm welcome today.  And
Congressman Sewell — -woman Sewell, thank you for all you do for the
people of this state and the country and for your friendship — our
friendship.

I wanted to come down to Alabama to make sure that the American people
know what workers at this —

And, by the way, if you have a seat, please take it.  (Laughter.)  By
the way, sometimes — the press is always fair with me, but once — every
once in a while, I make a mistake — not like — well, once a speech.

But, at any rate, I — years ago, when I first started talking to this —
for this job, I said, “Please take your seats.”  There weren’t any
seats.  Everyone was standing.  There were no chairs.  (Laughter.)  So,
I just wanted to make sure I checked whether you had seats.

Look, the American people know what workers at this facility are doing
and support — to support Ukraine’s fight for freedom.

And the bottom line is I came to say thank you, thank you, thank you. 
That’s the reason I’m here.

I’ve been on those battlefields where these missiles are fired, and I
spent a lot of time going in and out of Iraq and Afghanistan — maybe a
total of 40 times.  And I tell you what: You’re — and I’ve been in
Ukraine a lot prior to the war and on the border since the war.  And
it’s — it’s amazing what you’ve done.

We see on the news every single day the atrocities and the war crimes
that are being committed by Russian forces in Ukraine, directed by
Vladimir Putin.  And it really is gut-wrenching.

We see the incredible bravery of the Ukrainian fighters defending their
country from ev- — with everything they have.  And, by the way, it’s not
just their warriors.  It’s not just their military.  It’s people in the
street — people in the street, staying behind.  A lot have gotten out —
5 million — but a lot are staying, including women as well as men,
staying to fight for their country.

And — and we know that the United States is leading our Allies and
partners around the world to make sure that courageous Ukrainians who
are fighting for the future of their nation have the weapons and the
capacity and ammunition and equipment to defend themselves against
Putin’s brutal war.  A lot of war crimes being committed.

But what we don’t — what we don’t see — we don’t always see — is the
work that so much of — that makes so much of this possible.  And that’s
you.  It’s not hyperbole.  It’s you.  You make it possible.  You make it
possible for them to have a shot.

You know, during World War Two, the United States was known as the
arsenal of democracy.  There was Rosie the Riveter — who I actually got
to meet, quite frankly, before she passed away — and a lot of people
who, in fact, kept the — kept it going.

I was — a slight digression — I went over for the 50th anniversary of
the — the end of World War Two.  And I was in Normandy, and I went up
afterwards with the — to the cemetery.  And I was walking by myself. 
And it’s — it’s incredible.  It’s immaculate.  It’s perfectly manicured,
and the headstones are all the same.

I looked down one row, and I saw three names — same names.  A father and
two sons who had died in the landing.  And I was bent down, and I was
reading the dates of their birth.  And all of a sudden, I heard behind
me, “Attention!”  And I turned around and there was a gentleman who had
to be in his early 80s, in a wheelchair, being wheeled by his son who —
big guy — looked like Hoss Cartwright — and his — and his wife and one
of their — and a daughter.

And he saluted me, so I saluted him, and — at the time.  And I turned
around, and I said, “Thank you for what you did.  Thank you for saving —
literally saving civilization.”

And he put his hand on his wife’s — his wife — his hand was on her
shoulder.  And he said, “No, no.  She did it.  She did it.”

And I looked at her, and he said, “She built the landing craft that got
us in here.  She and her friends — they’re the ones that did it.”  And
he went on.  And he filled up. 

And all of a sudden, it dawned on me: You’re doing it.  You really are
doing it.  You’re making a gigantic difference for these poor sons of
guns who are under such enormous, enormous pressure and firepower.

Those Javelins I saw — there’s 10 for every tank that there is in
Ukraine right now.  You’re changing people’s lives.  (Applause.)  We
built the weapons — no, you really do.  But we built the weapons and the
equipment that helped defend freedom and sovereignty in Europe years
ago.  But that’s true again today.

You know, some of the best, most effective weapons in our arsenal are
those Javelin missiles, like the ones manufactured right here in Pike
County.

They’re highly portable.  They’re extremely effective against a wide
range of armored targets.  They can hit targets up to <s>400</s>
\[4,000\] meters away and have a “fire-and-forget” capability.  That
means the person firing can — and I know you know it, but for anybody
who may be listening — can change positions or take cover before that
Javelin even strikes home and strikes the target.

In fact, they’ve been so important there’s even a story about Ukrainian
parents naming their children — not a joke — their newborn child
“Javelin” or “Javelina.”  Not a joke.

So, the brave people of Ukraine, including the many civilians who have
taken up arms to defend their country, deserve every ounce of credit for
pushing back the Russian assault and frustrating Putin’s desire to
dominate Ukraine.

We’re at an inflection point in history, for real — it comes along about
every six or eight generations — where things are changing so rapidly
that we have to be in control.

Folks, there’s an ongoing battle in the world between autocracy and
democracy.  Xi Jinping, the leader of China, who I’ve talked — I’ve
spent more time with than any other world leader has — over 78 hours on
the — either in person or on the telephone with him.  And the fact of
the matter is he just is straightforward about it.  He says that
democracies cannot be sustained in the 21st century.  Not a joke.  They
cannot be sustained — because things are moving so rapidly, democracies
require consensus, and it’s hard to get consensus, therefore they can’t
keep up with an autocracy — one-man rule.

But that’s not going to be the case.  If that happens, the whole world
changes.

And because of you — in this first, really, battle, if you will — for
that to determine whether that’s going to happen is because you’re
making it possible.  You’re making it possible for the Ukrainian people
to defend themselves without us having to risk getting in a third world
war by sending in American soldiers fighting Russian soldiers.  
  
My dad used to have an expression.  He’d say, “The only war worse than
one that’s intended is one that’s unintended.”  
  
You’re allowing the Ukrainians to defend themselves.  And, quite
frankly, they’re making fools of the Russian military in many instances.

A big part of the reason they’ve been able to keep on fighting and to
make this war a strategic failure for Russia is because the United
States, together with our Allies and partners, have had their back.

The United States alone has committed more than 5,500 Javelins to
Ukraine.  You’re changing the nation.  You really are.  Add to that
significant supplies from our Allies and partners, as well as many
thousands of other anti-tank and anti-air weapons, helicopters, armored
vehicles, artillery, coastal defense systems.

Before Russia attacked, we made sure <s>Russia</s> \[Ukraine\] had
Javelins and other weapons to strengthen their defenses so Ukraine was
ready for whatever happened. 

And in the last two months, we continued to move even more resources and
equipment at a rapid pace into Ukraine.  We’ve made sure that there are
no interruptions in the flow of equipment to Ukraine.

Since Russia invaded Ukraine just over two months ago, we have sent more
than $3 billion in security assistance to Ukraine — alone, us — not
counting our Allies.  And that money is a direct investment in defending
freedom and democracy itself.

Because if you don’t stand up to dictators, history has shown us they
keep coming.  They keep coming.  Their appetite for power continues to
grow.

And every worker in this facility and every American taxpayer is
directly contributing to the case for freedom.  And that’s something we
can all be incredibly proud of, in my view.

Last week, I sent Congress — if you excuse a point of personal
privilege, talking like an old senator — but I sent a supplemental
budget — a fancy way of saying we need more money — to make sure the
United States can continue to send weapons directly to the frontlines of
freedom in Ukraine and to continue to provide economic and humanitarian
assistance to help the Ukrainian people.

And I urge the Congress to pass this funding quickly to help Ukraine
continue to succeed against Russian aggression, just as they did when
they won the Battle of Kyiv, and to make sure the United States and our
Allies can replenish our own stocks of weapons to replace what we’ve
sent to Ukraine.

As I said from the beginning, this fight is not going to be cheap, but
caving to aggression would even be more costly.  
  
We either back the Ukrainian people as they defend their country or
stand by as Russia continues its atrocities and aggression. 

I know what my answer is, and I think you all do too.  I bet I know what
the answer of this plant is.

There’s something else here that — to be understand.  Being the arsenal
of democracy also means good-paying jobs for American workers in Alabama
and the states all across America where defense equipment is
manufactured and assembled.

Two hundred and sixty-five people here at this plant are directly
employed working on the Javelin program.  All told, Lockheed Martin has
brought nearly 3,000 jobs to Alabama.

The Armed Forces of the United States of America is going to continue to
be the best-armed, most capable fighting force in the history of the
world.

In order to do that, we have to make sure our vital defense
<s>supplies</s> \[suppliers\] are getting the inputs and supplies they
need to produce and protect and provide the full capacity.

I learned on the tour today that each of the Javelins you produce
includes more than 200 semiconductors.  I’ve been a broken record, as
the press will tell you, on our need to be able to produce more
semiconductors in the United States.  
  
We invented the sucker, going to the moon — we, the United States. 
We’re the one that modernized it.  We’ve done more than anybody else. 
But guess what?  We stopped investing in ourselves.  We stopped
investing in ourselves.  
  
And so, now we’re back in the game, making sure that we become — we
become the primary producer of those semiconductors — computer chips
that power much of our modern lives.   
  
They’re in our phones, our cars, almost anything that has an on/off
switch.  And the semiconductor is critical to defense production
capacity, as you — you all know better than I do.

That’s why we are making it as hard as we can for Russia to get a hold
of semiconductors and advanced technologies that it could use to upgrade
its military during this conflict, and why we’re taking steps to make it
easier to source what we need here in the United States during a global
semiconductor shortage. 

And just one more — there is just one more reason why Congress has to
act quickly to provide the emergency funding for the so-called CHIPS Act
by passing the broader Bipartisan Innovation Act so we can produce tens
of millions of these chips.

There is something we have to focus on and something I’ve focused on
from my earliest days of our administration: I’m determined to make sure
the United States holds the technological high ground in competition
with other nations, especially China, as we move forward.

Folks, you know, we — we used to invest, as a nation, years ago — 35
years ago, we invested 2 percent of our entire GDP in research and
development.  We do half of that now.  We do half of that.  We used to
be number one in the world.  Now we’re number 13 in the world.  My
administration — we’re changing that.  
  
The United States used to own the innovation field.  In fact, it was a
Department of \[Defense\] research program that established DARPA.  It
was the first development of an anti-tank missile with advanced infrared
guidance systems that culminated in today’s Javelin.

The Bipartisan Innovation Act is going to help reverse decades-long
decline in federal research and development investment.  And it should
create \[jobs\] and support entire families, and expand U.S.
manufacturing and strengthen our national security. 

Where in God’s name is it written that the United States can no longer
be a leading manufacturer in the world?  We’ve created, just in the last
17 months, 465,000 permanent manufacturing jobs in America.  We have the
best workers, the most competent employees, the best science in the
world. 

And by funding the CHIPS Act, we’re going to ensure the semiconductors
that power the economy and our national security are made here in
America again. 

Today, all — all the world’s most advanced chips are made overseas.  But
the events of the past few years have proven beyond a doubt that
America’s security should never be held hostage to events overseas — not
a pandemic, not a war, not the politics of — ambition, or other
countries.

Fundamentally, there’s a national — this is a national security issue. 
This is one of the reasons why the Chinese Communist Party is lobbying
folks to oppose this bill.  And it’s an issue that unites Democrats and
Republicans.

So, let’s get it done.  Let’s get it done. 

In her introduction, Linda said she personally touched every single
solitary Javelin — 50,000 — that had been manufactured in this plant 20
years ago.

I was worried to shake your hand.  I thought you may — I might be
electrocuted.  (Laughter.)  But that’s where they start: right here with
American skill, American craftsmanship, American patriotism.

And just a few days ago, the Wall Street Journal quoted a young
<s>Hungarian</s> \[Ukrainian\] fighter saying, and I quote, “Without the
Javelins, it would have been very hard to stop the enemy pushing
ahead.”  End of quote. 

So these weapons, touched by the hands — your hands — are in the hands
of Ukrainian heroes, making a significant difference.  And that’s
something each and every day you could and should be proud of.

And I’m once more urging Congress to quickly pass the supplemental
funding bill for over <s>$300</s> \[$30\] billion to help the Ukrainians
so they can keep — they can keep all of the very, very — all of you
very, very busy for a while here.

So, again, let me end where I began.  I came for a basic reason, from
the bottom of my heart: to say thank you.  Thank you, thank you, thank
you for what you do.  Thank you for what you continue to do.  Unless you
go out in the field and see it, you don’t realize what a difference
you’re making. 

May God bless you all.  And may God protect our troops. Thank you so
much.  (Applause.) 

2:20 P.M. CDT
