---
date: '2022-05-24'
modified_time: 2022-05-24 02:51:26-04:00
published_time: 2022-05-24 02:51:25-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/05/24/remarks-by-president-biden-prime-minister-kishida-fumio-of-japan-prime-minister-narendra-modi-of-india-and-prime-minister-anthony-albanese-of-australia-at-the-second-in-person-quad-leaders/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden, Prime Minister Kishida Fumio of Japan, Prime\
  \ Minister Narendra Modi of India, and Prime Minister Anthony Albanese of Australia\
  \ at the Second In-Person Quad Leaders\u2019\_Summit"
---
 
Kantei  
Tokyo, Japan

10:35 A.M. JST

PRIME MINISTER KISHIDA:  (As interpreted.)  Good morning, ladies and
gentlemen.  President Biden, Prime Minister Modi, Prime Minister
Albanese: I am delighted to welcome my friends to Tokyo. 

In particular, I thank Prime Minister Albanese.  Welcome to Tokyo.  I
would like to offer him my sincere congratulations for assuming the post
of prime minister, and thank you very much for flying over to Japan
right after the election.

Since last year, with Joe taking the leadership, our four countries were
able to meet from time to time at the leaders’ level.  Japan is taking
over the baton this year, and I am truly happy that this time we are
able to hold the Quad Summit in Tokyo.

A grave incident which has fundamentally shaken the rule-of-law-based
international order we value has happened since we met last September. 
Russian invasion into Ukraine squarely challenges the principles which
are enshrined in the United Nations Charter.  We should never, ever
allow a similar incident to happen in the Indo-Pacific.

Because of the harsh reality unfolding, it is extremely significant for
us to get together and show to the international society the four
countries’ solidarity and our firm commitment toward the shared vision
of free and open Indo-Pacific.

Today, as we meet in person, I am looking forward for a candid exchange
of views on global and regional situations.

At the same time, I must say that without walking in step with the
countries in the region, we cannot secure success for the Quad either. 
We should therefore listen carefully to the voices of the countries in
the ASEAN, South Asia, as well as the Pacific Island countries so as to
further advance cooperation conducive in solving urgent issues facing
the region.

During this meeting, I wish to clarify the concrete progress of
broad-based practical cooperation that we have worked so far and also to
discuss on new areas of cooperation such as assisting in regional
climate change countermeasures, maritime domain awareness, as well as
humanitarian aid and disaster relief.

Now, first of all, may I invite Prime Minister Albanese to speak,
please?

PRIME MINISTER ALBANESE:  Well, Prime Minister Kishida, President Biden,
and Prime Minister Modi: Firstly, can I thank you for your sincere
congratulations on my election as Australia’s 31st prime minister.  It
is an honor that this is my first act as prime minister to attend this
important Quad Leaders Meeting here in Japan.

And as we gather today, I acknowledge all that the Quad has achieved,
standing together for a free, open, and resilient Indo-Pacific region
and working together to tackle the biggest challenges of our time,
including climate change and the security of our region.

My government is committed to working with your countries, and we are
committed to the Quad.  The new Australian government’s priorities align
with the Quad agenda, taking action on climate change and building a
stronger and more resilient Indo-Pacific region through better economic
security, better cybersecurity, better energy security, and better
environmental and health security.

Our cooperation is built on the values that we share: a commitment to
representative democracy, the rule of law, and the right to live in
peace.

Today, we look ahead to the work we’re yet to do.  As the Indo-Pacific
is reshaped, our Quad partnership is needed now more than ever to meet
the challenges and threats of a less certain world; to shape that world
for the better; and build a stronger, more cooperative Indo-Pacific
region that respects sovereignty.

The region is looking to us to work with them and to lead by example. 
That’s why my government will take ambitious action on climate change
and increase our support to partners in the region as they work to
address it, including with new finance.

We will act in recognition that climate change is the main economic and
security challenge for the island countries of the Pacific.

Under my government, Australia will set a new target to reduce emissions
by 43 percent by 2030, putting us on track for net zero by 2050. 

We have had a change of government in Australia, but Australia’s
commitment to the Quad has not changed and will not change.  And our
commitment to ASEAN and its centrality has not changed.

My government has already committed to a greater focus on Southeast
Asia, including the appointment of a special envoy for the region and
$470 million in additional foreign aid over the next four years.  This
is in addition to our increasing assistance to the Pacific by over half
a billion dollars, deepening our defense and maritime cooperation and
using the power of proximity to strengthen our partnerships.

We will bring more energy and more resources to securing our region as
we enter a new and more complex phase in the Pacific’s strategic
environment.  And we will continue to stand with you, our likeminded
friends.  And collectively, we will continue to stand up for each other.

We will stand firm on our values and our beliefs on what we know will
enhance the stability and prosperity of our region and what is firmly in
the interests of all those who call the Indo- Pacific home.

I’m honored to be among such close friends of Australia to take these
next steps with you to pursue positive and practical ways to support a
free, open, and resilient Indo-Pacific.

I look forward to strengthening our Quad partnership, starting with a
productive meeting today.  And I’m delighted to hand over to Prime
Minister Modi.

PRIME MINISTER KISHIDA:  (As interpreted.)  Thank you very much, Prime
Minister Albanese.  May I now ask the Prime Minister Modi to speak?

PRIME MINISTER MODI:  (As interpreted.)  Your Excellencies — Prime
Minister Kishida, Prime Minister Anthony Albanese, and President Biden. 

Prime Minister Kishida, thank you very much for your wonderful
hospitality.  I am very pleased to be among friends today in Tokyo. 

First of all, Prime Minister Anthony Albanese, my heartfelt
congratulations to you on your electoral victory.  Your being here with
us within just 24 hours of your swearing-in demonstrates the strength of
our friendship within the Quad and your commitment to it.

Excellencies, the Quad group has made an important place for itself on
the global stage in a very short time today.  The scope of the Quad has
increased and also it is more influential.  Our mutual trust, our
determination are giving democratic forces a new energy and enthusiasm.

At the Quad level, mutual cooperation is encouraging a free, open, and
inclusive Indo-Pacific region, which is a shared objective for all of
us. 

Despite the difficult circumstances of COVID-19, we have increased
mutual coordination in several areas such as vaccine delivery, climate
action, supply chain resilience, disaster response, and economic
cooperation.  This is ensuring peace, prosperity, and stability in the
Indo-Pacific region. 

The Quad is moving forward with a constructive agenda for the
Indo-Pacific region.  This will continue to strengthen the image of the
Quad as a force for good. 

Thank you very much. 

PRIME MINISTER KISHIDA:  (As interpreted.)  Thank you very much, Prime
Minister Modi.

May I now invite President Biden.  Joe, please. 

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Thank you very much.  It’s wonderful to be together
with friends and — at this transformative moment in the world, and we
are at a transformative moment.  
  
Prime Minister Kishida, I want to commend you for the extraordinary
leadership that, over the past few months, you’ve shown and for the
gracious way in which you’ve hosted all of us.   
  
And, Prime Minister Modi, it’s wonderful to see you again in person. 
The — and I thank you for your continuing commitment to making sure
democracies deliver, because that’s what this is about: democracies
versus autocracies.  And we have to make sure we deliver.  
  
Prime Minister Albanese, I welcome you to your first Quad meeting.  Like
I said, you got on a plane — you were sworn in and got on a plane.  And
I’m — if you fall asleep while you’re here, it’s okay.  (Laughter.) 
Because I don’t know how you’re doing it.  But — (laughs) — it is really
quite extraordinary.  Just getting off the campaign trail as well.  
  
Congratulations on your election.  As I told when you won — I called you
— that we greatly appreciate your commitment of being here so soon after
taking office.  
  
Quad leaders met for the first time just over one year ago.  It seems
longer, but, to date, our partnership is central to achieving our goals
and critical for the foundation of our continuing cooperation, in my
view.  
  
We already accomplished a great deal, as was referenced earlier:
cooperating on COVID-19 response and health security — more to do, to
state the obvious; partnering on 5G and technology supply chains,
technology standards setting; and launching our — our Quad Fellowship
Program, which I think can make a difference, which we talked about
earlier.  
  
At the same time, we’re navigating a dark hour in our shared history.
 The Russian brutal and unprovoked war against Ukraine has triggered a
humanitarian catastrophe.  And innocent civilians have \[been\] killed
in the streets, and millions of refugees are internally displaced as
well as exiled.  
  
And this is more than just a European issue; it’s a global issue.  The
fact is that what — if you turn on the television and you’ll see what
Russia is doing now, it appears to me that Putin is just trying to
extinguish a culture.  He’s not even aiming at military targets anymore;
he’s taking out every school, every church, every — every natural
history museum as if to try to obliterate the Ukrainian culture.  And
the world has to deal with it, and we are. 

The global food crisis is made worse by Russia’s blocking Ukraine from
exporting its millions of tons of grain.  And also, as long as Russia
continues the war, the United States will work with our partners to help
be the global response, because it’s going to affect all parts of the
world. 

At the same time, the United States must and will be strong, steady, and
an enduring partner in the Indo-Pacific.  We are in the Indo-Pacific —
we are — we are an Indo-Pacific power.

I was once asked by — well, I won’t go into it.  But I was once asked by
the leader of China why I kept talking about being an Indo-Pacific
power.  And I said, “Because we are.  We share the Pacific — one entire
side of our country.”  And we have been deeply involved with all of you
for a long time. 

As long as Russia continues this war, we’re going to continue to be
partners and gle- — lead a global response. 

And, you know, we’re an Indo-Pacific power, as I said.  We’re going to
stand with you, our close democratic partners.  And we’re going to stand
for the shared values that — and the shared vision we all have. 

You know, shortly before Russia launched this invasion, my
administration published our Indo-Pacific strategy to advance a free,
open, connected, secure, and resilient Indo-Pacific.

Russia’s assault on Ukraine only heightens the importance of those goals
— the fundamental principles of international order, territorial
integrity and sovereignty, international law.  Human rights must always
be defended, regardless of where they’re violated in the world. 

So, the Quad has a lot of work ahead of us.  It’s — the fact of the
matter is — and we’ve a lot of work to do keeping this region peaceful
and stable; tackling this pandemic and the next one; and addressing the
climate crisis, as referenced by our new colleague; ensuring that
technologies of the future are governed according to our values —
governed according to our values.

But a short time — in a short time, we’ve shown the Quad isn’t just a
passing fad.  We mean business.  We’re here to get things done for the
region.  And I’m proud of what we’re building together.  And I look
forward to our vital partnership flourishing and for many years to
come. 

Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister.

10:53 A.M. JST
