---
date: '2022-05-11'
modified_time: 2022-05-11 23:01:42-04:00
published_time: 2022-05-11 21:37:02-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/05/11/remarks-by-president-biden-at-the-international-brotherhood-of-electrical-workers-40th-annual-conference/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks By President\_Biden at the International Brotherhood of Electrical\
  \ Workers 40th Annual\_Conference"
---
 
McCormick Place Convention Center  
Chicago, Illinois

4:10 P.M. CDT  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Hell, hello, hello!  (Applause.)  Thank you, thank you,
thank you.  I want to start off by saying two things.  Number one, the
only reason I’m standing here as your President of the United States of
America is because of the IBEW came on with me early.  (Applause.)  
  
And secondly, is Delaware in the house?  Anybody from Delaware?   
  
AUDIENCE MEMBER:  (Inaudible.)  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Holler loudly, man, because I want to see you after this
is over.  
  
Folks, please sit down.  Please sit down.   
  
Well, Lonnie, I want to thank you.  You’re a de- — a dear friend and one
of the great leaders of labor of our time.  I mean that.  You’ve been
there every time.  
  
And I also want to thank the IBEW’s Kenneth Cooper, Chris Erickson, Paul
Nobel.  
  
And as I said early on, the IBEW was with me when I was a kid running
for the Senate in Delaware.  And some of them are back there
somewhere.  
  
And I’m also proud of our Secretary of Labor — a card-carrying union
member — Marty Walsh — fighting for union and worker power every day.
 (Applause.)    
  
But, Lonnie, I only have one problem: Sometimes I can’t understand him. 
He talks about *cars* and *car barns — *(said in Boston accent) — and
all that kind of thing.  I wonder what he’s talking about sometimes. 
But he’s the best, man.  If you got to be in a foxhole, you want him
with you.  
  
And, folks, there’s an expression where I come from: “You go home with
them that brung you to the dance.”  You all brought me to the dance, and
I mean it.    
  
I said early on that I was going to be the most pro-labor, -union
President we’ve ever had for a simple reason: You allow — (applause) —
you allow workers to maintain their dignity.  You allow them to hold
their heads up high.  I mean it.  It’s a lot more than just what you do
in terms of their paychecks and their benefits, but it’s about their
dignity.   
  
My dad used to have an expression.  He said, “Joey, a job is a lot more
than a paycheck.  It’s about your dignity.  It’s about your place in the
community.  It’s about…”  And I swear to God it’s what he’d say.  “It’s
about being able to look your kid in the eye and say, ‘Honey, everything
is going to be okay.’”   
  
Well, the union movement in the United States of America is the primary
reason why that happened — the primary reason why that happened.    
  
And, folks, look, there’s so much — we’ve done a lot, but there’s so
much more to do.  
  
So I — basic thing is, first of all: Thank you, thank you, thank you for
your support.  Thank you.  (Applause.)  
  
You’re the reason I’m standing here today as President.  I’ve never
forgotten not only what you’ve done for me, but what you’ve done for
America.  I’ve said this before, I’ll repeat it again — when I spoke to
you a couple — about a year ago: You literally built this country.  
  
If every investment banker in America would go on strike, not a whole
hell of a lot would happen.  But guess what?  If you all went on strike
nationwide, the country would shut down — shut down.  (Applause.)  
  
You’ve heard it a thousand times when I was running for office — a
thousand times: The middle class built this country.  Your plan was to
build this economy around you, from the middle up and the bottom down —
the bottom up.   
  
I’m so sick and tired of trickle-down economics that only trickles to a
few people.    
  
When the middle class does well, the poor have a way up and the wealthy
do just fine.  
  
As I’ve said, Wall Street didn’t build this country, the middle class
did.  And unions built the middle class, not labor.  Unions built the
middle class.  (Applause.)  That’s a tr- — it’s a fact.  That’s a
fact.  
  
With your help, we’re seeing the strongest job creation in modern
times.  
  
We inherited an economy on the brink of a great depression — millions of
people losing their jobs, losing their homes, but even more importantly,
losing hope.  
  
But look at the economy today: 8.3 million jobs in my first 15 months in
office — a record.  (Applause.)  
  
The unemployment rate now stands at 3.6 percent, the fastest decline —
the fastest decline in unemployment at the start of any President’s term
on record.  
  
Jobs and companies are coming home again.  We’re making “Buy America” a
reality, not just a slogan.  (Applause.)  
  
Look, folks, our economy has gone from being on the mend to being on the
move.  You know, it started with my American Rescue Plan.  Because of
it, we had the best year of state and local job growth in 20 years.  We
gave governors — great governors like the one in this state — we gave
them a whole lot of money.  We added back 460,000 jobs — critical state
and local workers, educators, firefighters, police officers.  This
includes a record 279,000 education jobs in 2021, because they didn’t
have the tax base to be able to hire them.   
  
The American Rescue Plan provided eviction relief, funding for states
and cities to allocate to landlords and renters — help them keep a roof
over the heads — 5 million households.  
  
Remember those long lines you’d see on the television and people lining
up in all kinds of vehicles just to get a box of food in their trunk? 
How quickly we forget people were hurting.    
  
And what did the MAGA crowd want to do?  Forget it.  Forget it.   
  
God, this is the United States of America.  The idea that people would
have to wait in line an hour or hour and a half to get a box of food in
their trunk — it’s just unbelievable.  
  
You know, the American Rescue Plan helped 41 million people put food on
the table — 41 million; the money in the pockets of hardworking
Americans who, through no fault of their own, were in trouble, giving
families what my dad called “just a little bit of breathing room.”   
  
And now, not only has “Infrastructure Week” finally arrived after four
years of the other guy, we can look forward to the infrastructure decade
for 10 years.  (Applause.)  It’s a fact.    
  
I know you’re all over the country.  (Applause.)  And the projects are
coming to you.  It’s not just for a year; it’s for the next decade — 10
years.  (Applause.)    
  
Here in Illinois alone there are over 6,000 miles of highway, 2,300
bridges in poor condition.  
  
This year alone, Illinois will receive 1 billion 900 million dollars in
highway funding for roads and bridges and $297 million dedicated —
dedicated to funding for bridges that are in disrepair.  
  
You know, I was going to Pittsburgh a couple of months ago, early —  
  
AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Woo!  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Yeah, I like Pittsburgh, man.  But I was going to
Pittsburgh a couple months ago to speak.  And as I got there, a bridge
going over a culvert about — looked like about 200 yards long and about,
at the top, probably 120 feet from the little creek below — totally
collapsed.  Totally collapsed.   
  
Thank God one of the only things that the COVID crisis did was their
kids weren’t in school; otherwise there’d be hundreds of kids in school
buses going across there at the time.    
  
This is the United States of America.  The idea we have bridges that are
collapsing, or about to collapse — I really mean it — it just drives me
crazy to think about it.    
  
And, folks, look, Mayor Lightfoot talked about how Chicago has lead
service pipes — more lead service pipes in drinking water than any other
city in America, affecting nearly 400,000 Chicago homes.  
  
And guess what?  That lead causes brain damage, particularly to kids, in
those pipes.  The law is going to fix that, because every American
deserves to be able to turn on a spigot and drink clean water. 
Nationwide, 10 million homes.  
  
Because of the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, we’ve announced nearly $3
billion to modernize more than <s>300</s> \[3,000\] airports across all
50 states — just like this year.      
  
Chicago airports are going to receive — just this year — nearly $100
million that can be used to improve runways, taxiways, and terminals.  
  
You know, some of you may remember, if you’re from New York City, when I
was Vice President, I landed there to meet with a group of — to go in
and speak to a union convention.  I came back out to LaGuardia.  And
when I was in there, I said — and I walked into the terminal and there
was a sign — one of the escalators wasn’t working.  It’s the God’s
truth.  I looked up the escalator.  It said, “Will be fixed in one
month.”   
  
One of the finest cities in all of America and you have a sign saying
it’s going to take a month to fix an escalator.   
  
So, I made a comment about that at the — at the union I spoke to and the
group I spoke with.  And it made instant news: “Biden was
criticizing…”  
  
Here’s what I said: I said, “If I took you to an airp- — blindfolded
you, put you in an airport in Beijing and one in New York and I said to
you, ‘Where are you: Beijing or New York?’” — you would’ve thought the
Beijing airport was the American airport with no one in it.  Not a
joke.   
  
And guess what?  As I went back to get on Air Force Two, I’m standing
there and I get off — I get out of the vehicle and I’m on the runway,
and there’s nine guys and two women with their yellow, you know, bibs on
and everything, who worked at the airport.  I thought, “Oh, God.  I’m
not going to get up on the train — up on the plane.”   
  
Do you know what they said?  “Thank you.  Thank you, thank you, thank
you.”  And guess what?  They ended up investing almost a billion dollars
in the airport, and it works.  (Applause.)    
  
This is the United States of America!  (Applause.)  We used to have the
finest infrastructure in the world.  We were rated number one in the
world; we’re now rated number 14.  The United States of America.  Why? 
I would argue it’s because of the greed of the folks at the top not
wanting to get things done.   
  
But, folks, look, we’ve announced $5 billion, including
$615 <s>billion</s> \[million\] this year alone so the IBEW can get to
work building a national network of 500,000 charging stations all across
America.  (Applause.)  
  
And guess what?  This guy here is part of the reason.  Not a joke. 
(Applause.)   
  
He won’t rem- — he won’t remember this, but I met with all the heads of
— the CEOs of the major car companies.  And you may remember General
Motors back then, when I first got elected, was suing California because
they said they had a higher standard for emissions than other states,
and they couldn’t have a na- — a local standard higher than a federal
standard.   
  
And so, I talked to Mary Barra.  And about two weeks later, she called
me and said, “We’re dropping our suit.  We’re dropping our suit.”  And I
listened, and she said, “We’re going to go all electric by 2035.”  Guess
what?  Five hundred thousand charging stations are going to have to be
built as we build these things.  (Applause.)    
  
And I think this guy is partially to blame.  (Applause.)   
  
Look, more than $20 billion so IBEW workers can modernize our electric
grid, building larger and more resilient transmission lines that can
withstand storms and get new and clean energy to our homes.   
  
Think about it, folks: Who the hell but you crazy guys climb up poles in
the middle of a storm to try to replace a generator?  (Applause.)  No,
I’m serious.  I’m genuinely serious.  People don’t get — we have to let
people know more of what you actually do.      
  
We’re investing $65 billion so that highly skilled and certified IBEW
wor- — members can deliver affordable high-speed — high-speed Internet
everywhere — rural, urban, suburban.  (Applause.)    
  
Just this week, I announced that 40 million low-income Americans from
families of four earning less than $55,000 a year will get high-speed
Internet installed in their homes for free.  Free!  Free!  (Applause.)  
  
And we worked it out with the Internet companies.  Nearly 40 percent of
households in America will qualify.  
  
We can’t be a country where a mother has to drive up to a McDonald’s
parking lot in the evening with her child just so he can get on the
Internet to do his homework.    
  
Again, this is the United States of America, for God’s sake.   
  
And what this means to all of you is good-paying union jobs.  Jobs you
can raise a family on.  Jobs that can’t be outsourced.  
  
This law is about more than rebuilding infrastructure.  It’s also how
about rebuilding the middle class.   
  
As I said, unions built the middle class.  And that’s why we made sure
that the Infrastructure Law included significant labor protections. 
(Applause.)   
  
For example, the overwhelming majority of the funds included in the law
are subject to Davis-Bacon requirements, so folks rebuilding our country
can earn a prevailing wage.  (Applause.)   
  
Look, it’s why we’re strongly encouraging grantees who get
infrastructure funding to use project labor agreements to ensure that
workers building the major projects are well-trained, highly-skilled,
and have a voice on the work site.  
  
That’s why I continue to call on Congress to fully and finally pass the
PRO Act, which makes — (applause) — which makes it easier for workers to
organize a union.  (Applause.)   
  
You know, I’m not just saying this to be pro-union.  I’m saying this
because I’m pro-America.   
  
Look, when Congress passed the National Labor Relations Act in 1935, it
didn’t just say that we should “allow” unions.  Everybody forgot this
for a long time.  What it said is: We, the federal government, should
“encourage” unions and collective bargaining.  That’s what it said. 
(Applause.)  There’s a reason for that.    
  
Let’s be clear for our Republican friends: You can’t say you’re working
— you’re for working people and vote against the PRO Act.  It’s not
consistent.    
  
Look, you all know why this matters.  Union members get higher wages,
better benefits and health insurance, paid leave; protections against
discrimination and harassment; and safer and healthier workplaces.  
  
But there’s another reason: Workers join unions to gain power.  That’s
what it’s about.  The only way to match power is with power.  It’s the
only way it can be done.  You can’t count on the good graces of major
corporations to decide they’re going to help.  Power is needed to be
exerted to deal with power.  Power over the decisions that affect your
lives.   
  
Unions provide, in one word, democracy.  
  
Rebuilding America with union labor is also smart for business. 
(Applause.)  This is the point I make — and, by the way, I’m not getting
many arguments from CEOs.  It’s smart for business.  Why?  When union
workers are on the job, projects are completed efficiently and
professionally, and they ultimately save money.  
  
For folks at home, maybe you’re not in a union or know anyone who is in
a union, but know this: It’s hard work.  You got to earn it.    
  
Ask a journeyman electricians, anyone — a journeymen electricians here
today — (applause) — no, I’m serious.  Think about this.  And you guys
got to talk — with all due respect, you got to talk more about this.  
  
The fact is: It takes four to five years as an apprentice — 8,000 hours
of training.  Now, granted, you get paid while you’re doing it.    
  
But the power goes out in a storm — why do you think — who climbs up
that pole while the snow and the rain are still coming down?  Union
workers.  They’re the best workers in the world.  You’re the most qua- —
this is not — again, I’m not trying to be nice to you all.  No, I really
— I mean this sincerely.  
  
Why, if you have the capacity, would you not hire a union worker,
whatever the job is — not just IBEW, a union worker — to do the job? 
(Applause.)  Seriously.  
  
We all talk about — you go to college for four years.  Well, guess
what?  When you got to be an apprentice and it takes up to five years to
get your apprenti- — to go through the program, you’re getting a hell of
an edu- — you’re working like hell.  That’s why you’re the most
qualified people in the world — not just here, in the world.  
  
And we’re beginning to see the effects of unions and the impact on
everything from what you see going on in Ukraine right now.  Our stuff
isn’t falling apart.  (Laughs.)  Theirs is.  (Laughter and applause.) 
Theirs is.  No, I’m serious.  (Applause.)  
  
So, folks, their quality of work is good for the American taxpayer.
 We’re not costing the American taxpayers money.  We’re saving them
money.  (Applause.)  No, no — I — I — you guys don’t say this enough,
quite frankly.  Excu- — if you don’t mind my saying so.  All in the
family here.  You don’t say it enough.  
  
It’s good for families in every neighborhood where infrastructure
projects are underway.  
  
Look, but here’s the deal: Building an economy from the bottom up and
middle out doesn’t happen by itself.  
  
For example, I know folks are concerned about inflation.  I come from a
family — and I mean this sincerely — like most of you, where if the
price of gasoline went up significantly and the price of food went up,
that’s what we talked about at the dinner table and the kitchen table. 
It meant a lot.  We felt it.  We felt it.  I understand.  
  
That’s why I’ve got a plan to lower the costs for everyday things that
make most people — who work to have, who need it.  And that would
fundamentally change the standard of living if we just made things more
affordable.   
  
There’s more than one way to deal with the impact on a family than what
we’re doing.  And we’re going to beat inflation.  But beyond that, it’s
all about the quality of life.  
  
You know, I remember my dad used to say — if he had an opportunity — my
dad, I guess, made — back in the late ’60s, he probably made the
equivalent of $20,000 a year.  It wasn’t a bad salary, but it wasn’t
great.  He had four kids.  
  
And if someone came along and said to my dad, “I can guarantee that your
salary is going to go up 500 bucks a year every year for the next 10
years, or we can make sure your kid can go to college with a lot cheaper
than it costs now.  I can make sure your cost of electricity and energy
in your home is down, not up.  I can make sure that you’re going to be
in a position where you’re going to have — the roads in front of the
house are going to be paved.  What do you ask for?”  
  
My dad would say, “All the rest relates to my standard of living.” 
That’s what middle-class folks are concerned about.  And not being
embarrassed in front of their kids when they can’t do something that
they know they should be able to do for them.  
  
I really mean it.  Again, it gets back to a word that’s probably
overused in my house.  As my grandfather would say, “Maybe it’s the
Irish of it.”  The word “dignity.”  The simple dignity.  
  
And so, there are so many things we can do that don’t do anything other
than make the country better and don’t cost the taxpayers more money if
we just decide to be fair and everybody would begin to pay their fair
share.  
  
Look, folks, you know, an example of my plan would be to let Medicare
negotiate the price of prescription drugs like the Department of
Veterans Affairs does.    
  
We say to the — the companies that are — the drug companies, “We’re only
going to pay X number of dollars for the following thing.  If you don’t
want to do that, we’re not going to buy any of your drugs.”  Well, since
you got thousands of people and when you’re talking millions of people,
they say, “Okay.”  
  
But here’s the deal, going back to this idea — just making sure we have
basic dignity.  
  
You know, putting a cap on the price of insulin — many of you have
children — or maybe some of you have Type 2 diabetes.  People with Type
2 diabetes need their insulin shots.  Need them.  It’s not like an
option — not like an option.  
  
Well, guess what?  It costs the drug companies 10 bucks — you hear me? 
— $10 to make that insulin and — counting in all the research and
development they did to get to that point.  
  
Yet, you know what the average cost of insulin for a month for a Type 2
diabetic is?  And there’s 200,000 kids out there who have
Type <s>2</s> \[1\] diabetes.  They — the average cost is $640 a
month.  
  
Now, what the hell do you do, as a mom or a dad, if you don’t have
private insurance and you don’t have coverage?  
  
Not only do you look at your child — I mean this sincerely and from the
bottom of my heart.  You look at your child, and not only do you worry
about where they’re going to live — because you got to divide up what
little you have and maybe stretch it out.  What do you think it does to
you as a parent, looking at your child?  Talk about being deprived of
your personal dignity.  
  
What the hell are we doing?  Why?  Think of the difference that it would
make for millions of Americans struggling every single month to afford
insulin for their child.    
  
Take childcare: In a city like this or any major cities in America, it
costs about $14,000 a year per child who’s not at school age.    
  
I remember.  I was 29 years old.  You guys helped to get me elected to
the United States Senate.  I wasn’t old enough to be sworn in.    
  
I was down in Washington, interviewing staff before I was sworn in.  And
I got a phone call from the first responders in my state.  They said,
“You got to come home.  There’s been an accident.”  I said, “What
happened?”  They said, “Well, a tractor trailer broadsided your wife’s
car with your three kids while they were Christmas shopping.”  And the
poor young woman they put on the phone to tell me said, “And your wife
is dead.  Your daughter is dead.  And your boys are really hurt.”  
  
So, I went home, obviously.  And I didn’t want to stay in the Senate.  I
wanted no part of it.  But because of some really fine men — one
Republican and five Democrats — they convinced me that, “Well, Joe, just
come and stay six months.  Help us organize.”  See how smart I was?  We
had elected 58 Democrats and a Democratic governor in my state that
would have appointed a Democrat.  So, I said okay.  I thought I had to
go because — to help.   
  
Well, one of the things I found out was: How am I going to take care of
my two little boys?  Almost three and almost four.  I couldn’t afford
daycare.  I couldn’t afford childcare.  Not a joke.  And I was making
$42,000 a year, which was a lot of money, as a U.S. senator.  I couldn’t
afford it.  Thank God I got a big family.  My dad would say, “Family is
the beginning, middle, and the end.”    
  
My sister moved in, and I bought an old farmhouse.  And my brother was
single, moved in.  Took a barn and turned it into an apartment.  Every
morning, I’d drive to the train station to drop my kids off at my
mom’s.  I had a lot of help.  
  
But it made me realize: How about that single woman with a high-school
education or less, with two little kids without a dad — how in God’s
name they can make it.  And yet, how can they go to work?   
  
The point being that if we just said anyone making under — a family
making under 120 grand a year would not have to pay more than 7 percent
of their income for childcare, we’d cut in half the cost of childcare on
a yearly basis, making it easy for — much easier for a whole lot of
people to be able to work.  It’d put over 200,000 women back in the job
market who are leaving only because they can’t afford — can’t afford
childcare.   
  
Folks, imagine what that would mean to the standard of living for a
household.  
  
Folks, there’s no reason why we shouldn’t get a tax credit for
weatherizing your homes.  (Applause.)  Make it more efficient to buy
electric vehicles.  My plan does that.    
  
I met with nearly a dozen CEOs of America’s largest utility companies. 
Literally a dozen of them came to see me.  They confirmed that if we
pass the investments allowing families to — if they weatherize their
homes, to write it off — a tax credit — it will immediately lower the
bills of these families an average of $500 a year.  
  
We can do these things without making a lot of sacrifices.  We just
asked the large corporations, the wealthiest Americans just to begin to
pay part of their fair share of taxes.    
  
No one making less — (applause) — no one making less — no one making
under $400,000 a year, I promise you, will pay an additional penny in
federal taxes.  I said that at the beginning, and I’ve kept that
commitment.  
  
Meanwhile, right now, the average billionaire — there’s about 790 of
them or so in America — you know what their average tax rate is?  Eight
percent.  E-I-G-H-T.  Eight percent.  Now — in federal taxes.  But most
of you are likely paying two to three times that much.   
  
No billionaire should be paying a lower tax rate than a teacher, a
firefighter, an electrician, a cop.  (Applause.)  No, I mean it.  And
they shouldn’t be paying 90 percent either.  If we just moved the tax
rate back to 39 percent, we’d have enough money to pay for all these
things — for them, for people making tens of millions of dollars.   
  
This is about fairness.  It’s about dignity.  It’s about fiscal
responsibility.  
  
My Republican colleagues say these programs to help the working-class
and middle-class people — that’s — they say that’s why we have
inflation.  They’re dead wrong.   
  
Under my predecessor, the great MAGA king, the deficit increased every
single year he was President.  The first year of my presidency — the
first year, I reduced the deficit — literally reduced the deficit by
$350 billion.  First year.  (Applause.)  
  
And this year — and this year, we’re on track to cut the federal deficit
by 1 trillion 500 billion dollars — the biggest decline in debt ever in
American history.  (Applause.)  
  
It matters to families, because reducing the deficit is one of the main
ways that we can ease inflationary pressures.  
  
But pay close attention.  I believe in bipartisanship.  Right now, the
majority of our Republican friends just see things differently.  They
don’t want to solve inflation — inflation by lowering the costs.  They
want to solve it by raising taxes and lowering your income.   
  
Now, you think I’m making this up.  If I didn’t see the actual document,
I’d think you — I was making it up.  I happen to think it’s good — a
good thing when American families have more money in their pockets. 
American workers deserve a raise.   
  
All this concern — “Ameri- — wages went up 5 percent.  Oh my God.”  I
thought that we were supposed to see happen.   
  
Republicans in Congress have proposed a plan that will make working
families and American families poorer.  Now, I’m not — I — you know, I’m
not usually this discreet about my Republican friends.  I get along with
a lot of them — used to anyway.   
  
But Senator Rick Scott, a Republican from Florida, laid out a plan in
writing — the Ult- — well, it’s called the — I call it the “Ultra-MAGA”
plan — Make America Great Again plan.  It’s in writing.    
  
And here’s what it does: It raises taxes on 75 million American
families, over 95 percent of whom earn less than $100,000 a year in a
combined income.  It would raise taxes by nearly $1,500 per family. 
It’s all in writing.  You can go online.   
  
They’ve got it backwards.   
  
I’ve proposed a minimum tax for billionaires, but congressional
Republicans have proposed a minimum tax for teachers, firefighters, and
electricians.   
  
And while on this — you know, 55 of the Fortune 500 — Fortune 500
companies in 2020 — 55 of them paid zero in federal taxes after making
$40 billion.  Forty billion dollars.  Zero in federal taxes.  It isn’t
right.    
  
I proposed a minimum tax for corporations that asks them to pay their
fair share in taxes.  Senator Scott’s plan lets them off, no pun
intended, scot-free.  
  
I want to strengthen Social Security benefits to make folks who have
worked for their whole lives and have paid into it — make sure they have
it.   
  
I want to give Medicare the power to negotiate drug prices.  I want
states to continue to expand Medicaid.   
  
And the ultra-MAGA Republicans’ proposal puts — here’s what it does: It
puts Social Security, Medicare — this is the Republican plan now; the
only one out there — and Medicaid on the chopping block every five
years.    
  
Here’s how it works: Their plan explicitly states that, every five years
it will require a vote on whether or not to continue each of these
programs.  Republicans in Congress want to put Medicare’s very existence
up for a vote every five years.  Same with Social Security and
Medicaid.   
  
Now, really, ask yourself: How well are you going to sleep at night
knowing that every five years everything you’ve paid into may not be
there?  
  
Not — this is — this is serious.  The MAGA Republicans are going to vote
on whether you’ll have Social Security, Medicare, or Medicaid and what
amount you get.  Every five years it’s reconsidered.  
  
Now, I have to admit it’s unlikely they’ll vote Social Security totally
out of existence.  But what do you think they’re likely to do if this
were to pass?  I — I’ve been a — I’ve been in Congress a long time.  I
was pretty good at what I did in Congress.  I guarantee you what they do
every five years — they’ll hold hostages to get their way.  
  
They’ll say, “If, in fact, you don’t vote for this particular thing,
we’re going to cut Social Security.  We’re going to cut Medicaid.  We’re
going to cut whatever.”  
  
The idea you’d have to renegotiate Social Security every five years?  I
mean, this is in writing.  Look it up.  
  
You know, they’re going to say, “If you don’t stop investing in clean
energy — because we don’t like it, we don’t think there’s global warming
— we’re going to cut the following.”  
  
Folks, this is not who we are.  So we’ve got to keep fighting for an
economy that’s about fairness, dignity, and opportunity; that’s about
America — about America.    
  
And, folks, you know, as my mother used to say, “Out of everything bad,
Joey, something good will happen if you look hard enough for it.”  So
let me close it this.  
  
Last month, I visited the main airport in Portland, Oregon, which is
undergoing major renovations being funded by the Bipart- — (applause) —
being funded by the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law.     
  
I met a woman named Lauren of IBEW Local 48.  (Applause.)  She came up
to me.  She shared what the job meant to her, how she grew up poor and
was raised by a single mom, how she bounced around in different careers
until she came in a — until she became an apprentice with the IBEW.  
  
She’s putting in her years and the thousands of hours that she needs to
put in to become a journeyman electrician.  Lauren told me that the
airport will symbolize the crown jewel of the Pacific Northwest but it
will also symbolize something else: a better life — a better life for an
IBEW member.  That means fairness and dignity in the workplace.   
  
And it’ll be a symbol for a better America because the IB- — IBEW is
just getting started.  
  
Folks, I promised you that I’d be the most pro-union President in
American history — (applause) — because I know this: In a crisis,
America always counts on you.  (Applause.)  So you can count on me to
keep fighting for you!  (Applause.)  Keep going!  Keep building!  Keep
the faith!  (Applause.)  
  
God bless you all, and may God protect our troops.  Thank you, thank
you, thank you, thank you.  (Applause.)    
  
4:49 P.M. CDT
