---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2022-03-14'
modified_time: 2022-03-14 11:28:02-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/03/14/remarks-as-prepared-for-delivery-by-first-lady-jill-biden-at-the-2022-international-women-of-courage-award-ceremony/
published_time: 2022-03-14 11:28:01-04:00
title: "Remarks as Prepared for Delivery by First Lady Jill\_Biden at the 2022 International\
  \ Women of Courage Award\_Ceremony"
---
 
U.S. Department of State

Washington, D.C.

From soft lullabies to battle cries for justice, women nurse and
nurture, teach and build, lead and dream our world forward—each and
every day. 

Women have never been silent, but women have been silenced: with
violence, with hate, discrimination, and isolation, with work and care
that is never done.

Women have been told that they are dangerous. And that’s because they
are—dangerous to corruption and injustice. When we raise our voices, we
have the power to shatter the shields of oppression.

That’s why cowardly men stop girls from learning. It’s why women’s
bodies become casualties of war. 

Like all of us, my heart has ached watching videos of Ukraine. Sick kids
fleeing on makeshift medical trains, the unthinkable bombing of a
maternity ward. Parents weeping over their children’s broken bodies in
the streets. The senselessness is staggering.  
  
We also know that there are horrors happening around the globe that
never make the evening news. There are children’s broken bodies and
women who bear the scars of war all around the world. 

And there are women everywhere whose voices need to be heard — because
stories are powerful. They shape our lives —defining the shades of our
joy and sorrow, dividing what matters from the rest. They’re how we
understand and connect to each other—beyond language, and distance, and
time. They foster empathy and compel each of us to act. 

I continue to teach writing at a nearby community college, and in my
classes, I watch students find confidence when they lay their lives down
on paper. I’ve seen them draw closer to one another when they share,
realizing that their differences are precious and their similarities
infinite.  

The stories we tell matter. 

My husband, our President, knows that. He knows how the stories he heard
from survivors of abuse kept him up at night, how they inspired him to
write and champion the Violence Against Women Act.

He knows that women’s voices have been the heart of resistance to
tyranny, and that no country that oppresses half of its population can
thrive.

And he knows that the United States must lead a global community
dedicated to stopping the corruption, and injustice, and brutality that
silences women.  

Because there can be no true democracy, no true peace, no true
prosperity without women’s voices. There can be no history without our
stories. 

That’s why what we do here resonates far beyond these walls. 

For 16 years, these awards have lifted up the voices of women around the
world. It has shined light on the struggles and strength of women in the
global North, South, East, and West. It has declared to all: The United
States stands with these heroes. They are not alone. 

Today, we honor twelve women—and we go further, giving them a platform
to speak their truth in their own words. We recognize the power that
they hold—to take on the most dire challenges of our time and move us
all to do more.

When you hear their words, hold them close to your heart. Share them
with your daughters and sons, and with everyone you know. 

Tell their stories because they can inspire our world to rise to their
courage. 

Tell them because women warriors everywhere need to hear what’s
possible. 

Tell them because there is a sisterhood of girls who hold a universe of
possibility within themselves, who need to know that the future belongs
to them, too. 

To all Women of Courage—those fighting injustice in Latin America or
hoping to learn in the Middle East, working for democracy and stability
in Europe, protecting their families in sub-Saharan Africa, or speaking
out against gender violence in Asia—we will continue to work with
passion and persistence, with development and democracy, to stop those
who wish to silence you.

And we will tell your stories, even when you cannot.

\###
