---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2022-03-11'
modified_time: 2022-03-11 16:03:50-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/03/11/president-biden-announces-key-nominees-6/
published_time: 2022-03-11 15:00:00-05:00
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key\_Nominees"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
the following individuals to serve as key leaders in his administration:

-   Shefali Razdan Duggal, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
    Plenipotentiary to the Kingdom of the Netherlands 
-   Susie Feliz, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Legislative and
    Intergovernmental Affairs, Department of Commerce
-   Brendan Owens, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Energy,
    Installations and Environment, Department of Defense
-   Russell Rumbaugh, Nominee for Assistant Secretary of the Navy
    (Financial Management and Comptroller), Department of Defense
-   Rheanne Wirkkala, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Legislative
    Affairs, Department of Defense
-   Carmen Cantor, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Insular and
    International Affairs, Department of the Interior
-   Naz Durakoğlu, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Legislative
    Affairs, Department of State
-   Rebecca Dye, Nominee for Commissioner of the Federal Maritime
    Commission
-   Luis Botello, Nominee for Member of the International Broadcasting
    Advisory Board, United States Agency for Global Media
-   Kenneth Jarin, Nominee for Member and Chair of the International
    Broadcasting Advisory Board, United States Agency for Global Media
-   Janet Keller, Nominee for Member of the United States Advisory
    Commission on Public Diplomacy

**<u>Shefali Razdan Duggal, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary to the Kingdom of the Netherlands </u>**

Shefali Razdan Duggal, an immigrant to the United States from Kashmir,
India, is an experienced political activist, women’s rights advocate,
and human rights campaigner. Razdan Duggal is a former Presidential
Appointee to the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum Council, and
continues to serve as a Western Regional Advisor. She is a San Francisco
Committee member of Human Rights Watch, a member of the Wake Forest
University Leadership and Character Council, and served on the National
Board of Directors for Emily’s List. Razdan Duggal is the recipient of
numerous civic awards, including being recognized with the Western
Regional Leadership Award by the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum, as a
Community Hero by the California State Assembly, and as one of the Most
Powerful Women in California by the National Diversity Council. She
served National Co-Chair of Women for Biden, and as a Deputy National
Finance Chair at the Democratic National Committee.

Razdan Duggal received a B.S. in Mass Communication from Miami
University (Oxford, OH) and a M.A. in Media Ecology from New York
University.

**<u>Susie Feliz, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Legislative and
Intergovernmental Affairs, Department of Commerce</u>**

Susie Feliz has nearly two decades of Capitol Hill experience as an aide
to former Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton (D-NY); a legislative director
to Representatives Joe Baca (CA-43), Al Green (TX-09) and Karen Bass
(CA-37), including as a leader of the Congressional Hispanic Staff
Association; and currently as the Vice President for Policy and
Legislative Affairs at the National Urban League. As a result, she
brings an in-depth understanding of how public policy is formulated, an
extensive network across all levels of government, the private sector,
trade associations, and civil society, and a track record of creating
and then shepherding legislation through its congressional life cycle.

In her current role at the National Urban League, Feliz is responsible
for directing and overseeing the Washington Bureau’s policy team in the
development of public policy priorities and advocacy strategies that
advance the National Urban League’s economic empowerment and civil
rights agenda. As such, Feliz promotes the Urban League’s policy
objectives externally through strategic advocacy before Congress and the
Administration as well as through targeted education and outreach to
business leaders, advocacy organizations, and other key stakeholders and
partners. She earned a Master of Public Administration degree from the
George Washington University and a Bachelor of Arts degree from the
University of Denver. She has called the DMV area home for the last 22
years, and lives in Alexandria, Virginia, with her husband and their two
sons. 

**<u>Brendan Owens, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Energy,
Installations and Environment, Department of Defense</u>**

Brendan Owens is Principal of Black Vest Strategy, a consultancy focused
on the intersection of health, equity, and climate issues in the built
environment. He is also a co-founder of Ecountabl, Inc., a platform
seeking to democratize access to corporate environmental, social, and
governance information. Prior to founding Black Vest Strategy, he had a
19-year career with the U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC). At USGBC,
Owens supported the technical development of USGBC’s LEED Green Building
Rating System, as well as the creation of numerous other building sector
standards and codes for green buildings, net zero energy buildings, and
grid interactive buildings. He has experience across supply and demand
sectors of the energy industry, buildings, and infrastructure with a
focus on integrative technology and inclusive policy to optimize
outcomes. Prior to his work at USGBC, Owens was the energy manager at
U.S. Army’s Fort Belvoir, where he participated in source selection,
implementation, and measurement and verification of what was the largest
energy savings performance contract in Department of Defense history.

Owens is an engineering graduate from Purdue University where he serves
on the Dean’s Advisory Council for the University’s Honor’s College. He
is a Virginia-registered Professional Engineer, a Board Member for the
New Buildings Institute, a member of the Environmental Policy Commission
for the City of Alexandria, VA, a member of ASHRAE, and was honored as a
LEED Fellow in 2012. He grew up a Coast Guard child, but considers Old
Town Alexandria, VA – where he lives with his wife, Wendy, and their
children, Harper and Eamon – home.

**<u>Russell Rumbaugh, Nominee for Assistant Secretary of the Navy
(Financial Management and Comptroller), Department of Defense</u>**

Russell Rumbaugh currently analyzes institutional policy at the Center
for Space Policy and Strategy at the non-profit Aerospace Corporation.
He has previously worked on national security budgets in the Department
of Defense, the U.S. Congress, and in think tanks. Rumbaugh served twice
in the Office of the Secretary of Defense’s Cost Assessment and Program
Evaluation office, as the Defense and International Analyst on the
Senate Budget Committee, and on personal staff in the House of
Representatives. Additionally, he was the Director of Budgeting for
Foreign Affairs and Defense at the Stimson Center, and worked at the
Congressional Research Service. Rumbaugh began his career as a U.S. Army
infantry officer. He has taught a graduate course on defense budgets at
Georgetown University, George Mason University, and the University of
Maryland, and has published on the subject.

Rumbaugh holds degrees in political science and security studies from
the University of Chicago and Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He
is originally from Omaha, Nebraska and is married to Dr. Candice Chen.
They have two children.

**<u>Rheanne Wirkkala, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Legislative
Affairs, Department of Defense</u>**

Rheanne Wirkkala joined the Biden-Harris Administration in February 2021
and currently serves as the Special Assistant for Strategy to Secretary
of Defense Lloyd Austin. In that role, Wirkkala helps drive Secretary
Austin’s national defense priorities, and is responsible for long-term
strategic planning for the Secretary of Defense. Wirkkala has spent a
decade in federal service. Before joining the Biden-Harris
Administration, she served in various roles on the House Permanent
Select Committee on Intelligence, including as the Director of
Investigations, Deputy Director of Investigations, Policy Director, and
as a Professional Staff Member. Prior to serving on the Committee,
Wirkkala was an intelligence analyst at the Defense Intelligence Agency,
focused on political and military leadership in Afghanistan and
Pakistan, and on al Qaida. Wirkkala also served at the State Department
in the office responsible for counter-threat finance and economic
sanctions policy.

Wirkkala has a master’s degree in International Relations from Yale
University, and bachelor’s degrees in Philosophy and Political Science
from Boston University. She studied abroad at St. Anne’s College, Oxford
University. Wirkkala is a Term Member of the Council on Foreign
Relations and a Truman National Security Project Security Fellow. She is
married with two children.

**<u>Carmen Cantor, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Insular and
International Affairs, Department of the Interior</u>**

Ambassador Carmen G. Cantor is a career member of the Senior Executive
Service and currently serves as Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary to the Federated States of Micronesia. Previously,
Cantor served in various roles within the Department of State, including
as the Executive Director of the Bureau of Educational and Cultural
Affairs and Bureau of International Information Programs, Executive
Director of the Bureau of Counterterrorism, Director of the Office of
Civil Service Human Resource Management, and as Deputy Director for
Recruitment, Examination, and Employment. Cantor also served as Director
of the Office of Civil Rights for the Foreign Agricultural Service, and
as Director of the Office of Equal Employment Opportunity at the Federal
Maritime Commission.

Cantor earned a B.A. from the University of Puerto Rico and an M.A. from
the Inter-American University of Puerto Rico.

**<u>Naz Durakoğlu, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Legislative
Affairs, Department of State</u>**

Naz Durakoğlu currently serves as the Principal Deputy Assistant
Secretary in the Bureau of Legislative Affairs at the U.S. Department of
State. Prior to returning to the Department of State, she was Senior
National Security Advisor to Senator Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH). Earlier in
her career, Durakoğlu was a Senior Fellow at the Atlantic Council’s
Digital Forensic Research Lab where she researched foreign election
interference trends. Durakoğlu also served in the Obama-Biden
Administration as Senior Advisor to the Assistant Secretary of State for
European and Eurasian Affairs. She began her career in the U.S. House of
Representatives where she held various positions, including as
Legislative Director to Congressman Bill Keating, Subcommittee Staff
Director on the Foreign Affairs Committee, and Legislative Assistant to
Congressman Mike McMahon.

Durakoğlu is a first-generation American who speaks fluent Turkish and
holds a B.A. from Rutgers University and a M.A. from the Naval War
College.

**<u>Rebecca Dye, Nominee for Commissioner of the Federal Maritime
Commission</u>**

Rebecca F. Dye, of Virginia, has nearly 20 years of experience at the
Federal Maritime Commission, having been appointed to serve by
Presidents of both parties. While at the Commission, Dye has led four
fact-finding investigations, and has developed an innovative approach to
produce collaborative solutions in the nation’s complex supply chain.
Most recently, Dye has worked to address systemic congestion in the U.S.
international ocean freight delivery system, and to eliminate fees and
charges that add unnecessary cost and complexity for U.S. exporters and
importers.

Dye comes to the Commission with an extensive background in maritime
matters. She began her federal career as a commissioned officer and
attorney in the U.S. Coast Guard’s Office of the Chief Counsel, then
served as a law instructor at the U.S. Coast Guard Academy. After two
years as an attorney at the U.S. Maritime Administration, she joined the
staff of the former Committee on Merchant Marine and Fisheries and later
the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the U.S. House of
Representatives, providing advice to Members of Congress on issues
pertaining to commercial shipping, international maritime agreements,
oil pollution, maritime safety, and law enforcement. Dye graduated from
the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and earned a law degree
from the University of North Carolina School of Law. 

**<u>Luis Botello, Nominee for Member of the International Broadcasting
Advisory Board, United States Agency for Global Media</u>**

Luis Botello is a journalist with more than 30 years of experience
building and enabling free and independent press around the world. After
covering international and domestic affairs in Latin America, he became
a strong advocate for press freedom and high standards in journalism.
The driving force behind his career is his mission to promote
high-quality, in-depth reporting that holds governments accountable.

Botello currently serves as Deputy Vice President of Global Impact and
Strategy at the International Center for Journalists (ICFJ), where he
oversees ICFJ’s monitoring, evaluation, and learning process and leads
ICFJ’s efforts in ensuring programs’ impact. In previous leadership
roles at ICFJ, he launched the International Journalists Network
(IJNet), and expanded ICFJ’s presence in Latin America, where it is now
a journalism organization that develops groundbreaking programs on
journalism ethics, press freedom, digital technology, and investigative
reporting in more than 20 countries. He has taught courses at American
University, Hampton University, and the Interamerican Defense College in
Washington, D.C., as well as the Iberoamerican University in Mexico
City. Botello is also an international media analyst for major news
networks such as CNN en Español, NTN24, and Voice of America. He serves
as a board member for the Fund for Investigative Journalism, the Border
Center for Journalism and Bloggers, and the Latin American Center for
Journalism (CELAP). He has a master’s degree in mass communications and
a bachelor’s degree in journalism from Louisiana State University.

**<u>Kenneth Jarin, Nominee for Member and Chair of the International
Broadcasting Advisory Board, United States Agency for Global Media</u>**

Kenneth Jarin is partner in the law firm Ballard Spahr LLP. For a
significant part of his career both as a city solicitor and private
practitioner, he specialized in labor and employment law, serving as
chief labor negotiator for many cities and states including the City of
Philadelphia and the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. More recently, he
founded and led the firm’s public policy and political law compliance
practice. In government, Jarin served as Chief Deputy City Solicitor for
the City of Philadelphia early in his legal career. During the
Clinton-Gore Administration, he was a Board Member on the National
Council on the Arts, the governing body of the National Endowment for
the Arts. He also chaired the Board of Governors of the Pennsylvania
State System of Higher Education, which governs Pennsylvania’s 14 public
universities. In the non-profit arena, Jarin has served as a Board
Member of the Duke University Sanford School of Public Policy, the
Anti-Defamation League, the Underground Railroad Freedom Center, and the
Chamber Orchestra of Philadelphia.

Jarin grew up in Oreland, Pennsylvania, where he worked his way through
college as a mailman. He received his undergraduate degree from Duke
University and his J.D. from Temple University.

**<u>Janet Keller, Nominee for Member of the United States Advisory
Commission on Public Diplomacy</u>**

Janet Keller has been involved in politics and public policy issues at
the local, state, and federal level for more than 30 years. In 1990, she
founded Keller Consultants, which provides strategic advice to
candidates, campaigns, and private clients in support of their political
and philanthropic interests.

In 2000, Keller was appointed by Governor Gray Davis to serve for six
years as a member of the California Regional Water Quality Control Board
which seeks to preserve, enhance, and restore California’s water
resources. During the second term of the Obama-Biden Administration, she
served as a member of the President’s Committee on the Arts and the
Humanities. Keller also served as Secretary and a member of the
Executive Committee and Board of Directors of the California Partners
Project. Since 2017, Keller has been an advocate for many of the
survivors of Larry Nassar, including United States National Team and
Olympic team members. She prepared and accompanied survivors to meetings
with members of the United States Senate, hearings of the Senate
Commerce and Judiciary Committees, and other public events in support of
the efforts to protect generations of athletes. Keller graduated from
the University of San Diego with a Bachelor of Arts degree in Political
Science.

\###
