---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2022-03-01'
modified_time: 2022-03-01 18:46:19-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/03/01/fact-sheet-president-bidens-historic-actions-to-make-our-communities-safer-by-reducing-gun-crime/
published_time: 2022-03-01 18:44:48-05:00
title: "Fact Sheet: President\_Biden\u2019s Historic Actions to Make Our Communities\
  \ Safer by Reducing Gun\_Crime"
---
 
In his 2022 State of the Union Address, President Biden will highlight
how his Administration is executing on his comprehensive strategy to
make our communities safer and reduce gun crime. The President’s
comprehensive strategy advances two foundational policies – investing in
crime prevention and helping cities and towns hire additional community
police officers to walk the streets, get to know their neighbors, and
restore trust and safety. These are the two foundational policies that
then-Senator Biden advanced when the United States faced record crime
rates in the 1990s. At that time, he wrote a law to change how our
country fights crime. We then experienced the sharpest drop in crime on
record.

  
President Biden recognizes the important role that law enforcement plays
in stopping the interstate flow of guns used in crimes and taking off
our streets the small number of individuals responsible for a
disproportionate amount of gun crimes. To support state and local law
enforcement, the U.S. Department of Justice has launched five gun
trafficking strike forces and is cracking down on the “Iron Pipeline” –
the illegal flow of guns sold in the south, transported up the East
Coast, and found at crime scenes in cities from Baltimore to New York
City. In addition, the Justice Department has directed every U.S.
Attorney’s Office nationwide to increase resources dedicated to district
specific violent crime strategies. The Justice Department is working
with state and local law enforcement to address the most significant
drivers of violence in each district, including to get repeat gun
violence offenders off of our streets. New York City’s Gun Violence
Strategic Partnership – which the President and Attorney General visited
in February 2022 – is one model of the strategies Justice will help
expand nationwide.   

The President is committed to serving as a strong partner for state and
local law enforcement on the frontlines of the fight against crime.
That’s why his American Rescue Plan gives cities and states historic
levels of funding that they can use to put more cops on the beat for
community policing. That’s also why the President continues to urge
Congress to act on his $300 million budget request to more than double
the size of the Department of Justice’s COPS community policing grant
program.

Stronger law enforcement is made more effective when we make real
investments in making our communities stronger and in addressing the
causes of crime before it spills over into violence. That’s why
President Biden’s comprehensive approach makes sure cities and states
have the funding, training, and know-how they need to invest in proven
tactics including street outreach by credible messengers, hospital-based
intervention, and youth programming. And it’s bolstered by additional
funding to create economic opportunity with job training, expand
after-school activities, and provide stable housing and other
stabilizing supports necessary to reduce recidivism and help formerly
incarcerated individuals reenter their communities. The President has
proposed a $5 billion investment in community violence interventions,
including a $200 million investment in Fiscal Year 2022.

  
Taken together, President Biden’s gun crime reduction strategy steps up
and focuses law enforcement efforts on violent offenders, stems the
trafficking of illegal guns, and makes real investments in communities
to intervene in and prevent gun violence. The President knows a complex
and devastating challenge like the surge of gun crime we’ve seen over
the last two years requires an ambitious, evidence-based response that
uses every tool at our disposal, and that’s exactly what his plan does.

At the same time, President Biden will use the State of the Union
Address to reiterate his call for Congress to pass commonsense gun
violence prevention legislation that will save lives. This legislation,
which fully aligns with the Second Amendment, includes requiring
background checks for all gun sales, ensuring that no terrorist can buy
a weapon in the United States, banning assault weapons and high capacity
magazines, repealing gun manufacturers’ protection from liability, and
banning ghost guns.

**EXECUTING ON THE PRESIDENT’S COMPREHENSIVE GUN CRIME REDUCTION
STRATEGY**

President Biden spent his first year in office executing on his
[five-part comprehensive
strategy](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/06/23/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-comprehensive-strategy-to-prevent-and-respond-to-gun-crime-and-ensure-public-safety/)
make our communities safer and reduce gun crime, which:

-   Stems the flow of firearms used to commit violence,
-   Supports local law enforcement with federal tools and resources to
    address violent crime,
-   Invests in evidence-based community violence interventions,
-   Expands summer programming, employment opportunities, and other
    services and supports for teenagers and young adults, and
-   Helps formerly incarcerated individuals successfully reenter their
    communities.

In fact, during President Biden’s first year in office, the Biden-Harris
Administration made more progress on executive actions to reduce gun
violence than any other Administration has in its first year. Since
taking office, President Biden has announced four packages of executive
actions – [an initial set of
actions](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/04/07/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-initial-actions-to-address-the-gun-violence-public-health-epidemic/)
during a Rose Garden address in April, [a comprehensive gun crime
reduction
strategy](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/06/23/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-comprehensive-strategy-to-prevent-and-respond-to-gun-crime-and-ensure-public-safety/),
[steps to promote safe storage of
firearms](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/11/02/fact-sheet-biden-administration-takes-steps-to-prevent-suicide-including-by-promoting-safe-storage-of-firearms/),
and [additional Justice Department actions to enforce our gun laws and
keep guns out of dangerous
hands](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/02/03/president-biden-announces-more-actions-to-reduce-gun-crime-and-calls-on-congress-to-fund-community-policing-and-community-violence-intervention/).
These executive actions represent a whole-of-government approach,
mobilizing the Departments of Justice, Veterans Affairs, Defense,
Transportation, Health and Human Services, Labor, Homeland Security,
Education, and Housing and Urban Development toward the shared goal of
reducing gun violence. Highlights of these actions include three
significant Justice Department rulemakings, agency guidance encouraging
the use of hundreds of billions of American Rescue Plan dollars for gun
violence reduction, and historic progress to advance community violence
interventions.

***Keeping Especially Dangerous Weapons and Repeat Shooters Off Our
Streets***

**Helping state and local law enforcement take repeat shooters off our
streets.** The Attorney General has directed every U.S. Attorney’s
Office nationwide to increase resources dedicated to district specific
violent crime strategies. The Justice Department will work with state
and local law enforcement to address the most significant drivers of
violence in each district, including to get repeat gun violence
offenders off of our streets.  New York City’s Gun Violence Strategic
Partnership – which the President and Attorney General visited with
Mayor Eric Adams in February 2022 – is one model of the strategies
Justice will help expand nationwide.

**Reining in the proliferation of ghost guns.** In May 2021, the Justice
Department’s Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF)
[issued a proposed
rule](https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2021/05/21/2021-10058/definition-of-frame-or-receiver-and-identification-of-firearms)
to help stop the proliferation of “ghost guns,” which are unserialized,
privately made firearms that are increasingly being recovered at crime
scenes and have been identified by law enforcement officials as a
serious threat to public safety. Today, criminals are buying kits
containing nearly all of the components and directions for finishing a
firearm within as little as 30 minutes and using these firearms to
commit crimes. When these firearms turn up at crime scenes, they often
cannot be traced by law enforcement due to the lack of a serial number –
making it harder to catch the criminals behind shootings. ATF is
reviewing public comments in response to the proposed rule, the next
step in the regulatory process. In the meantime, the Justice Department
launched a National Ghost Gun Enforcement Initiative, which will train a
national cadre of prosecutors and disseminate investigation and
prosecution tools to help bring cases against those who use ghost guns
to commit crimes.   

**Better regulating devices marketed as stabilizing braces.** In June
2021, ATF [issued a proposed
rule](https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2021/06/10/2021-12176/factoring-criteria-for-firearms-with-attached-stabilizing-braces)
to better regulate when devices marketed as firearm stabilizing braces
effectively turn pistols into short-barreled rifles subject to the
National Firearms Act. These braces can make a firearm more stable and
accurate while still being concealable. ATF is reviewing public comments
in response to the proposed rule, the next step in the regulatory
process.

***Keeping Guns out of the Wrong Hands***

**Helping states enact model extreme risk protection order (“red flag”)
legislation.** In June 2021, the Justice Department [published model
extreme risk protection order
legislation](https://www.justice.gov/doj/reducing-gun-violence/commentary-extreme-risk-protection-order-model-legislation)
to make it easier for states that want to adopt these red flag laws to
do so. These laws allow family members or law enforcement to petition
for a court order temporarily barring people in crisis from accessing
firearms if they present a danger to themselves or others. 

**Making progress on a report to give policymakers the information they
need to help address firearms trafficking.** In April 2021, the Justice
Department announced that it will issue a new, comprehensive report on
firearms commerce and trafficking and annual updates necessary to give
policymakers the information they need to help address firearms
trafficking today. To ensure the report is rigorous and helpful for
policymakers, ATF has assembled a group of accomplished researchers and
law enforcement subject matter experts. The academic team is currently
undertaking such work as an independent analysis of ATF firearms
commerce data to ensure accurate research that informs key policy
findings and recommendations, and an analysis of technological
developments over the past twenty years, including the use of polymers
for the modular manufacture of firearms, the evolution of 3D printing of
firearm components, and the pervasive availability of kits on the
commercial market, facilitating the assembly of privately made firearms.

**Established zero tolerance for rogue gun dealers that willfully
violate the law.** In June 2021, the Justice Department announced a new
policy to underscore zero tolerance for willful violations of the law by
federally licensed firearms dealers that put public safety at risk.
Absent extraordinary circumstances that would need to be justified to
the Director, ATF will seek to revoke the licenses of dealers the first
time that they violate federal law by willfully 1) transferring a
firearm to a prohibited person, 2) failing to run a required background
check, 3) falsifying records, such as a firearms transaction form, 4)
failing to respond to an ATF tracing request, or 5) refusing to permit
ATF to conduct an inspection in violation of the law.

**Launched multijurisdictional firearms trafficking strike forces. **In
July 2021, the Justice Department launched five new law enforcement
strike forces focused on addressing significant firearms trafficking
corridors that have diverted guns to New York, Chicago, Los Angeles, the
Bay Area, and Washington, D.C. Those strike forces have already opened
more than 540 investigations and taken custody of almost 3,100 crime
guns. In February 2022, the Justice Department built on this commitment
by announcing that it is cracking down on the “Iron Pipeline” – the
illegal flow of guns sold in the south, transported up the East Coast,
and found at crime scenes in cities from Baltimore to New York City –
and other firearms trafficking by adding personnel and other resources
to strengthen these strike forces.

**Launched a public education campaign to encourage firearm safe
storage**. In September, the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA)
launched a new paid media campaign featuring a series of public service
announcements to reinforce the key message that a simple gun lock can
save lives. These PSAs appeared across multiple platforms, including TV,
social media, and streaming services. The campaign also targeted
specific venues and events and involved a diverse array of channels,
yielding more than 1.8 billion impressions across all platforms in less
than 3 months. Viewers were directed to KeepItSecure.net for additional
resources. This campaign will continue through 2022.

**Launched an unprecedented focus on improving lethal means safety in
the Military and Veteran Suicide Prevention Strategy.** In November, the
Departments of Defense (DOD), Health and Human Services (HHS), Homeland
Security (DHS), Justice (DOJ), and Veterans Affairs (VA), as well as the
Office of Emergency Medical Services within the Department of
Transportation (DOT), announced that they will jointly create a plan for
addressing lethal means safety awareness, education, training, and
program evaluation. This coordinated campaign will build upon the VA
launch in September and encourage safer storage practices, safety
planning, and time and space behavioral measures for crisis response.

**Making it easier for customers to obtain secure gun storage or safety
devices.** In January 2022, ATF
[issued](https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2022/01/04/2021-28398/secure-gun-storage-and-definition-of-antique-firearm#:~:text=This%20rule%20amends%20ATF%27s%20regulations%20to%20account%20for,are%20sold%20under%20the%20license%20to%20nonlicensed%20individuals.)
a final rule clarifying firearms dealers’ statutory obligations to make
available for purchase compatible secure gun storage or safety devices.
Additionally, ATF has now issued a best practices guide to all federal
firearms dealers to reiterate the important steps they are legally
required to take, and additional steps they are encouraged to take, to
keep their customers and communities safe. The guide includes materials
for Federal Firearms Licensees (FFLs) to distribute to customers to help
them better understand their legal obligations as firearms owners, as
well as practical steps they can take to facilitate the safe storage of
firearms and keep firearms out of the hands of people prohibited from
possessing firearms.

***Making Additional Progress to Reduce Community Violence***

Many actions listed above will directly reduce community violence
disproportionately affecting Black and brown communities. The
Administration has also taken a number of steps focused solely on
advancing community violence interventions, proven strategies for
reducing gun violence in urban communities. As part of his Build Back
Better agenda, President Biden proposed $5 billion in funding for the
Department of Justice and Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
(CDC) to invest in community violence interventions, evidence-based
programs that are shown to help reduce violent crime. The President has
proposed a $5 billion investment in community violence interventions,
including a $200 million investment in Fiscal Year 2022.

But this Administration isn’t waiting on Congress to act; we have
already invested in and expanded community violence interventions. These
actions include:

**Investing historic levels of existing federal funding in community
violence interventions, including American Rescue Plan funding.** The
Biden Administration made certain American Rescue Plan (ARP) funding –
$350 billion in state and local funding, and $122 billion in K-12
funding – available as unprecedented resources for CVI. Senior White
House advisors also issued a memo to state and local officials outlining
how these elected leaders not only can – but should – use ARP funds for
CVI. Cities across the country, such as Seattle, Washington; Buffalo,
New York; and Atlanta, Georgia – have responded to this call by
committing and deploying ARP funds for CVI. In addition, five federal
agencies made changes to 26 different programs to direct vital support
to community violence intervention programs as quickly as possible. For
example, the National Institutes of Health announced funding through its
Firearm Injury and Mortality Prevention Research grants for four
community violence programs – including a place-based strategy involving
repurposing vacant lots in Detroit, an evaluation of READI Chicago, a
burnout prevention program for violence interrupters in Chicago, and a
hospital-based violence intervention program focused on youth in
Virginia. The Justice Department announced $187 million for states and
$85 million for localities through the Byrne JAG Program to support
coordinated violence prevention and intervention; the Department
explicitly encouraged the use of these funds for CVI. In September, the
Department of Housing and Urban Development published a guide explaining
to localities how Community Development Block Grants–a $3.4 billion
annual funding stream–can be used to fund CVI strategies. The Department
of Education released a letter to state school associations on how
21<sup>st</sup> Century Learning Centers funds and Student Support and
Academic enrichment programs – both billion-dollar formula grant funding
streams – can be used to fund CVI strategies in schools.

**Making progress on state legislation to allow Medicaid to support
community violence interventions.** The U.S. Department of Health and
Human Services hosted a webinar and [published
information](https://www.medicaid.gov/state-resource-center/downloads/allstatecall-20210427.pdf)
to educate states on how they can use Medicaid to reimburse certain
community violence intervention programs, like Hospital-Based Violence
Interventions. Last year, Connecticut and Illinois enacted legislation
that allows Medicaid to reimburse providers for hospital-based violence
prevention services – the first two states in the country to pursue this
approach. According to reporting by [USA
Today](https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/politics/2021/09/17/medicaid-funds-tapped-combat-rise-crime-gun-debate-stalls/8326102002/?gnt-cfr=1),
“\[t\]he idea has been in the works for years, advocates say, but not
until the Biden administration signaled that states could – and should –
use Medicaid dollars to support these violence prevention programs have
state lawmakers stepped up.”

**Using the White House’s convening power to support community violence
interventions.** In July 2021, senior White House staff
[established](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/07/16/readout-of-first-meeting-of-white-house-community-violence-intervention-collaborative/)
The White House Community Violence Intervention Collaborative, a
16-jurisdiction cohort of mayors, law enforcement, CVI experts, and
philanthropic leaders committed to using American Rescue Plan funding or
other public funding to increase investment in their community violence
intervention infrastructure. The Collaborative is spending 18 months
strengthening and scaling the jurisdictions’ community violence
intervention infrastructure to reduce gun crime and promote public
safety. National experts and federal agencies are providing training and
technical assistance to help communities assess their existing public
safety ecosystem, identify gaps, and build the capacity to expand
programming that saves lives. White House staff continue to regularly
work with the Collaborative.

***Providing Law Enforcement with the Tools and Resources They need to
Reduce Gun Violence***

**Deploying federal law enforcement to support local communities in
addressing gun violence.** As part of the Justice Department’s
[Comprehensive Strategy for Reducing Violent
Crime](https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/attorney-general-merrick-b-garland-announces-new-effort-reduce-violent-crime),
the Justice Department has supported law enforcement in local
communities in addressing gun violence. In particular, the Justice
Department has provided enforcement support from the Federal Bureau of
Investigations (FBI), ATF, Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA), and
United States Marshals Service (USMS). In Fiscal Year 2021 alone, the
USMS partnered with over 1,700 state and local agencies through district
and regional task forces, apprehended more than 84,000 fugitives
including more than 6,000 murder suspects, and seized more than 7,000
firearms during numerous violence reduction and counter gang operations.
In 2021, ATF embedded with homicide and shooting investigation units in
police and sheriff’s departments in more than 60 communities across the
country, and expanded the reach of its National NIBIN Correlation and
Training Center to an additional 35 sites. ATF now provides ballistic
matching services and generates leads for more than 1,400 local police
departments nationwide. In 2021, FBI partnered with nearly 2,000 state
and local officers as part of its Violent Crime Task Forces and Safe
Streets Task Forces, which together have confiscated more than 5,000
illegal firearms. Finally, DEA has strong partnerships with state and
local law enforcement – 4,600 of whom served as DEA task force officers
in 2021, disrupting the activity of some of the most violent drug
trafficking organizations in the country. In 2021 alone, DEA was
involved in the seizure of over 8,700 crime guns and opened 912
investigations with a nexus to violent crime.

**Investing American Rescue Plan funding in community-oriented policing
to reduce gun violence.** The Biden Administration made historic levels
of funding from the American Rescue Plan – $350 billion in state and
local funding – available for law enforcement purposes such as hiring
law enforcement or paying overtime where the funds are directly focused
on advancing community policing strategies in those communities
experiencing an increase in gun violence associated with the pandemic.
Funds were also made available for additional enforcement efforts to
reduce gun violence exacerbated by the pandemic, including prosecuting
gun traffickers, rogue dealers, and other parties contributing to the
supply of crime guns, as well as collaborative federal/state/local
efforts to identify and address gun trafficking channels. Cities across
the country, such as Milwaukee, Wisconsin; Albuquerque, New Mexico;
Syracuse, New York; and Mobile, Alabama, have responded to this call by
committing and deploying ARP funds for advancing community-oriented
policing. In addition, the Department of Justice continues to further
the Administration’s support of community-oriented policing, including
through the announcement of $139 million in grants to local law
enforcement that will put over 1,000 police officers on the beat through
the COPS Office Hiring Program. President Biden was instrumental in that
program’s creation and has called for it to be doubled in size in his
FY22 budget request.

**Keeping Guns Out of the Hands of Domestic Abusers.** In 2021, the
Department of Justice’s Office on Violence Against Women (OVW) expanded
the Domestic Violence Homicide Prevention Firearms Technical Assistance
Project (FTAP) to provide funding directly to those communities that
participated in FTAP in the past, as well as choosing new communities to
receive funding and technical assistance. FTAP helps communities
identify challenges limiting a more robust implementation of domestic
violence firearms laws in their jurisdictions and assists them in
establishing a localized response that is best suited to their
communities’ unique needs and characteristics.  OVW will award an
estimated $6 million for up to 12 sites and $4 million for training and
technical assistance on firearms and domestic violence.

***Addressing the Root Causes of Gun Violence***

**Investing American Rescue Plan funding in public safety strategies
such as summer jobs for young adults and substance abuse and mental
health services.** The Biden Administration has made historic levels of
funding from the American Rescue Plan  – $350 billion in state and local
funding and $122 billion in school funding  – available for purposes
such as hiring nurses, counselors, and social workers; providing court
personnel and operations costs to return to pre-pandemic operation
levels; providing and expanding employment services, including summer
jobs for young people and programs that provide training and work
experience for formerly incarcerated persons and other individuals who
live in communities most impacted by high levels of violence; providing
and expanding summer education and enrichment programs, including summer
camp; and scaling up wraparound services, such as housing, medical and
mental health care, trauma-informed care, substance use disorder
treatment, food assistance, and job placement services, for victims of
crime, young people, formerly incarcerated persons, and individuals and
households facing economic insecurity due to the pandemic. Cities and
counties across the country, including St. Louis, Missouri; Tucson,
Arizona; and Los Angeles County, California, have responded to this call
by committing and deploying ARP funds for these purposes.

**Providing meaningful work, education, or enrichment to keep young
people safe and give them a path to success.** For example, in June
2021, the Department of Labor awarded $89 million through its YouthBuild
program to provide pre-apprenticeship opportunities for young people
ages 16-24. The Department of Labor also awarded $20 million through its
Workforce Pathways for Youth program to expand workforce development
activities that serve youth ages 14-21 during “out of school” time
(non-school hours).

**Helping formerly incarcerated individuals successfully reenter their
communities.** Individualswho secure employment after release have much
lower recidivism rates than those who do not. Good, stable jobs for the
formerly incarcerated promote public safety and reduce violence. That is
why the Administration is taking concrete steps to facilitate employment
and associated services, such as housing assistance, for people who are
formerly incarcerated. For example, in June 2021 the Department of Labor
awarded $85.5 million to help formerly incarcerated adults and young
people in 28 communities transition out of the criminal justice system
and connect with quality jobs. The Department also awarded $25.5 million
in Young Adult Reentry Partnership grants to organizations that will
help provide education and training services to young adults between
18-24 who were previously involved with the justice system or who left
high school before graduation. In addition, the President’s House-passed
Build Back Better Act includes $1.5 billion for grants to help formerly
incarcerated individuals successfully reenter their communities.

**Supporting Survivors of Domestic Violence.** Research shows that a
male abusers’ access to a firearm increases the risk of intimate partner
femicide by
[1,000%.](https://www.pbs.org/newshour/health/domestic-violence-shelters-are-swamped-experts-worry-surging-gun-sales-could-make-things-worse)
The COVID-19 pandemic and economic crisis have increased the rates and
risk for domestic violence nationwide.  For many women and children who
experience abuse, home is not a safe place and there were increased
barriers to accessing services and support. Last year, the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), through the Family
Violence Prevention and Services Program, awarded nearly $1 billion in
American Rescue Plan (ARP) supplemental funding to support services for
survivors of domestic violence and sexual assault and their children.

\###
