---
category: statements-releases
date: '2022-03-09'
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/03/09/president-biden-announces-key-nominees-5/
published_time: 2022-03-09 11:02:58-05:00
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key\_Nominees"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
the following individuals to serve as key leaders in his administration:

-   Shereef Elnahal, Nominee for Under Secretary for Health, Veterans
    Health Administration, Department of Veterans Affairs
-   Ray Jefferson, Nominee for Under Secretary for Benefits, Veterans
    Benefits Administration, Department of Veterans Affairs
-   Rita Landgraf, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Aging, Department
    of Health and Human Services
-   Roselyn Tso, Nominee for Director of the Indian Health Service,
    Department of Health and Human Services
-   Patrick Murphy, Nominee for Chair of the Asset and Infrastructure
    Review Commission, Department of Veterans Affairs
-   Jonathan Woodson, Nominee for Vice Chair of the Asset and
    Infrastructure Review Commission, Department of Veterans Affairs
-   William Blake, Nominee for Member of the Asset and Infrastructure
    Review Commission, Department of Veterans Affairs
-   Michael Blecker, Nominee for Member of the Asset and Infrastructure
    Review Commission, Department of Veterans Affairs
-   Christine Hill, Nominee for Member of the Asset and Infrastructure
    Review Commission, Department of Veterans Affairs
-   Joyce Johnson, Nominee for Member of the Asset and Infrastructure
    Review Commission, Department of Veterans Affairs
-   Lucretia McClenney, Nominee for Member of the Asset and
    Infrastructure Review Commission, Department of Veterans Affairs
-   José Ramos, Nominee for Member of the Asset and Infrastructure
    Review Commission, Department of Veterans Affairs

**<u>Shereef Elnahal, Nominee for Under Secretary for Health, Veterans
Health Administration, Department of Veterans Affairs</u>**

Dr. Shereef Elnahal is a physician leader who has served as President
and Chief Executive Officer of University Hospital in Newark, NJ since
2019. Prior to this role, Elnahal served as New Jersey’s 21st Health
Commissioner, appointed by Governor Phil Murphy and confirmed
unanimously by the New Jersey Senate. He was the first Muslim member of
New Jersey’s Cabinet in state history. He also served as Assistant
Deputy Under Secretary for Health for Quality, Safety, and Value at the
U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs from 2016 through 2018, overseeing
quality of care for the Veterans Health Administration (VHA). He
co-founded the VHA Innovation Ecosystem, a program that continues to
foster the spread of innovation and best practices that improve veteran
care across the nation.

Elnahal led University Hospital through the COVID-19 public health
emergency, and also set up one of the first COVID-19 vaccination sites
in NJ, vaccinating the state’s first health care worker on December
15th, 2020. In addition, Elnahal has overseen improvements in care
quality and patient safety at the hospital. He has brought his public
health background to bear in community-based programming, including a
recently announced partnership with a developer and the NJ Housing and
Mortgage Financing Authority to provide supportive housing to homeless
patients; a hospital-based violence intervention program that has served
as a national model; and a program that deploys trusted chaplains as
community health workers.

**<u>Ray Jefferson, Nominee for Under Secretary for Benefits, Veterans
Benefits Administration, Department of Veterans Affairs</u>**

Ray Jefferson is the President of Jefferson Group, a global leadership
development consultancy, as well as the Chair and Co-Founder of the
Service Academies Global Summit. Earlier in his career, Jefferson served
as a White House Fellow and worked as a Special Assistant to the U.S.
Secretary of Commerce. Additionally, he served as a Fulbright Fellow in
Singapore; as the Deputy Director for Hawaii’s Department of Business,
Economic Development and Tourism; and as a Leadership Consultant with
McKinsey & Company based in Singapore. In 2009, President Barack Obama
appointed Jefferson as the Senate-confirmed U.S. Assistant Secretary for
Veterans’ Employment and Training at the U.S. Department of Labor. 

Jefferson graduated from the U.S. Military Academy at West Point in 1988
and served as an Army Officer with the infantry, Rangers, and Special
Forces. Jefferson lost all five fingers on his left hand while
attempting to protect his teammates from a hand grenade detonating
prematurely during training. He attended Harvard’s Kennedy School of
Government, earning an MPA in Strategic Management, and went on to earn
an MBA from Harvard Business School. Jefferson’s commitment to service
has been recognized throughout his career, including when he was
selected by then-Secretary of State Colin Powell as one of the two
inaugural recipients of the Harrison H. Schmitt Fulbright Alumni
Leadership Award for dedication to public service. Jefferson is a member
of the Asia Society, Council on Foreign Relations (life member),
Fulbright Association, HBS African-American Alumni Association, NAACP,
Special Forces Association, 75th Ranger Regiment Association, and Young
Presidents’ Organization. Born and raised in Guilderland, New York, he
now considers home to be Honolulu, Hawaii.

**<u>Rita Landgraf, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Aging,
Department of Health and Human Services</u>**

Rita Landgraf joined the University of Delaware’s College of Health
Sciences in 2017 as Professor of Practice and Distinguished Health and
Social Services Administrator in Residence. She also serves as Director
of the UD Partnership for Healthy Communities, a cross-college,
cross-state initiative. Landgraf serves as a leader within the Dean’s
Office and supports a variety of activities including community
engagement and outreach, development of a Master’s level degree in
public health, and the college’s pipeline program. Landgraf’s focus is
concentrated on the social, economic, and environmental conditions that
support and sustain healthy communities and the relationship of these
conditions to promote equity in health, a cost-effective health system,
and the advancement of policy.

From 2009 to 2017, Landgraf served as Cabinet Secretary of the Delaware
Department of Health and Social Services under Governor Jack Markell. As
Secretary, she led the principal agency charged with keeping Delawareans
healthy, ensuring they get the health care they need, and providing
children, families, individuals with disabilities and seniors with the
essential services. She managed one of the largest departments in
Delaware’s government that included Medicaid, aging and disability
services, with an annual budget of over $2 billion. Under Landgraf’s
leadership, Delaware expanded community-based services to help older
adults age in place, and people with disabilities live, work and
participate in their communities.  Landgraf is the former President of
AARP Delaware, the former Executive Director of the National Alliance on
Mental Illness Delaware, and the former Executive Director of the Arc of
Delaware.

**<u>Roselyn Tso, Nominee for Director of the Indian Health Service,
Department of Health and Human Services</u>**

Roselyn Tso is an enrolled member of the Navajo Nation. Tso began her
career with the Indian Health Service (IHS) in 1984. She previously
served in various roles in the Portland Area IHS and IHS Headquarters.
Currently, Tso serves as the Area Director for the Navajo Area IHS. The
Navajo Area IHS delivers health services to a user population of over
244,000 American Indians; the Navajo Nation is one of the largest Indian
reservations in the United States consisting of more than 25,000
contiguous square miles and three satellite communities, and extends
into portions of the states of Arizona, New Mexico, and Utah. In her
leadership position, she was responsible for the implementation of the
Indian Self-Determination and Education Act and worked directly with
tribes and direct service tribes.

Tso holds a Bachelor of Arts in interdisciplinary studies from
Marylhurst University in Portland, Oregon and a master’s degree in
organizational management from the University of Phoenix, Portland,
Oregon.

**<u>Patrick Murphy, Nominee for Chair of the Asset and Infrastructure
Review Commission, Department of Veterans Affairs</u>**

Patrick Murphy, a Pennsylvania native, was the first Iraq War Veteran to
serve in Congress. He received a Bronze Star for his service in Iraq as
paratrooper with the 82nd Airborne Division. While in Congress, Murphy
led the signing of two landmark bills into law, including the repeal of
Don’t Ask Don’t Tell and the 21st Century GI Bill. As Under Secretary of
the Army during the Obama-Biden Administration, Murphy oversaw the
management and operation of the Army – a Fortune 10-sized organization
and the nation’s second largest employer of over 1.3 million
individuals. Murphy led the expansion of the Soldier for Life
initiative, which saved $340M in FY16, and helped the Army reach
recruitment goals for the first time in five years with over 130,000
millennials hired.

In 2019, Murphy chaired the Cyberspace Solarium Commission which
generated more than 100 recommendations for improving the United States’
approach to digital security issues, many of which became law through
multiple defense bills and a high-profile infrastructure package. For
the last several years, Murphy has been working across the public and
private sector to invest in veteran-owned businesses, advocate for
stronger healthcare policy, and recruiting young people and veterans to
run for public office.

**<u>Jonathan Woodson, Nominee for Vice Chair of the Asset and
Infrastructure Review Commission, Department of Veterans Affairs</u>**

Dr. Jonathan Woodson is the Lars Anderson Professor in Management and
Professor of the Practice at the Boston University Questrom School of
Business, and holds joint appointments as Professor of Surgery at the
School of Medicine, and Professor of Health Law, Policy, and Management
at the School of Public Health. He established and led the
University-wide Institute for Health System Innovation and Policy.

From 2010-2016, Woodson was the Assistant Secretary of Defense for
Health Affairs and Director of the Tricare Management Activity in the
United States Department of Defense (DOD). He was the principal advisor
to the Secretary of Defense for all health and force health protection
related issues, and ensured the effective execution of the DOD medical
mission. He exercised authority, direction, and control over the Defense
Health Agency, Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences,
Armed Forces Radiobiology Research Institute, Defense Center of
Excellence for Psychological Health and Traumatic Brain Injury, and the
Tricare Health Plan serving 9.5 million beneficiaries. Woodson holds the
rank of Major General, United States Army, Reserve, and is Commander of
the United States Army Reserve Medical Command, Pinellas Park, Florida.

**<u>William Carl Blake, Nominee for Member of the Asset and
Infrastructure Review Commission, Department of Veterans Affairs</u>**

Carl Blake is the Executive Director for Paralyzed Veterans of America
(PVA), a position he has served in since January 2018. He is responsible
for exercising administrative control, as directed by the President of
PVA, of all offices and functions of the organization, including
overseeing all efforts devoted to financial management, development and
fundraising, strategic communications, and service programs executed by
PVA. Blake previously served as the Associate Executive Director of
Government Relations for PVA. He has represented PVA to federal agencies
and has frequently testified before committees of the U.S. House of
Representatives and Senate.

Blake was raised in Woodford, Virginia. He attended the United States
Military Academy at West Point, New York. He received a Bachelor of
Science Degree from the Military Academy in May 1998. He was assigned to
the 2nd Battalion, 504th Parachute Infantry Regiment (1st Brigade) of
the 82nd Airborne Division at Fort Bragg, North Carolina. He graduated
from Infantry Officer Basic Course, U.S. Army Ranger School, U.S. Army
Airborne School, and Air Assault School. His awards include the Army
Commendation Medal, Expert Infantryman’s Badge, and German Parachutist
Badge. Blake retired from the military in October 2000 due to injuries
suffered during a parachute training exercise. He completed spinal cord
injury rehabilitation at the Richmond VA Medical Center in Virginia.
Blake received his Master’s in Public Administration from Old Dominion
University with a concentration in Nonprofit Management. Blake lives in
Fredericksburg, VA, with his wife Venus, son Jonathan, and daughter
Brooke.

**<u>Michael Blecker, Nominee for Member of the Asset and Infrastructure
Review Commission, Department of Veterans Affairs</u>**

Michael Blecker served in the U.S. Army from 1967 to 1970, with combat
infantry service in Vietnam from 1968 – 1969. Upon finishing law school,
he joined Swords to Plowshares in 1976 to help veterans navigate the
complex VA disability system. In 1982, he became Executive Director of
Swords to Plowshares, and has over the past 45 years guided the agency
from its small grassroots origins to one with a continuum of specialized
services and an annual budget of over $35 million.

Blecker has a nationwide reputation for dedicated service and as an
authority on veterans’ services and veterans’ rights. He is co-founder
of the National Coalition for Homeless Veterans and the California
Association of Veterans’ Service Agencies. He has served on the
Congressional Commission on Service Members and Veterans Transition
Assistance, the California Senate Commission on Homeless Veterans, the
San Francisco Mayor’s Homeless Planning Committee, the National Agent
Orange Settlement Advisory Board, the Agent Orange Information Center,
and the Veterans Speakers Alliance. From 2015 to 2016, Blecker served on
the federal Commission on Care, examining veteran access to VA care.

**<u>Christine Hill, Nominee for Member of the Asset and Infrastructure
Review Commission, Department of Veterans Affairs</u>**

Christine Hill currently serves as the Republican Staff Director for the
House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs Subcommittee on Health. Prior to
this position, she was the Executive Vice President, Government Affairs
for Wounded Warrior Project (WWP). In the Bush Administration, Hill was
Senate-confirmed as the Assistant Secretary for Congressional and
Legislative Affairs for the Department of Veterans Affairs. Prior to her
appointment, Hill was Director, Congressional and Intergovernmental
Affairs for the 2005 Defense Base Closure and Realignment Commission.
Before joining this congressionally mandated commission, Hill was the
military legislative assistant to Senator Elizabeth Dole.

A 1983 graduate of the United States Air Force Academy, Hill held
numerous positions as a KC-135 instructor navigator and senior
standardization/evaluation navigator. During this time, she flew combat
support during the U.S. intervention in Panama, and was deployed to
Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, flying in support of Desert Storm as the chief of
tanker air operations. Following an assignment to Headquarters Air
Combat Command, Hill was hand-picked to become the first woman assigned
to fly the B-1B Bomber. She completed qualification as both an offensive
and defensive systems officer and was the first initial qualification
student combat qualified as a weapons system officer and instructor.
During this time, she also held various Squadron- and Wing-level
leadership positions. Hill concluded her military career at the Pentagon
with assignments in Air Force plans and budget, and in the weapon
systems division of the Air Force Office of Legislative Liaison. She
retired as a Lieutenant Colonel.

**<u>Joyce Johnson, Nominee for Member of the Asset and Infrastructure
Review Commission, Department of Veterans Affairs</u>**

Rear Admiral Dr. Joyce M. Johnson, DO, MA is a physician with senior
public health leadership experience in the civilian and military
sectors. Her last active duty assignment was with the U.S. Coast Guard
as Director, Health and Safety and she retired at the rank of Rear
Admiral, Upper Half (08). As a physician, she is board certified in
Public Health/Preventive Medicine and Psychiatry, and is also a
board-certified Clinical Pharmacologist and Certified Addiction
Specialist. She is a Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine, earning a D.O.
degree; prior to that she earned a master’s degree in Hospital and
Health Administration.  

Based on her previous experiences, Johnson understands the clinical
needs of veterans from both provider and patient perspectives, and
recognizes the many contributions the VA health care system makes to
patients, their families, and the overall community in meeting the needs
of America’s veterans. For many years, she was a surveyor for a national
accreditation body, surveying both inpatient and ambulatory care
facilities. At the Department of Veterans Affairs, Johnson served as a
Senior Research Resident, and more recently on has been appointed to the
VA Commission on Care, the Advisory Committee on Disability
Compensation, and the Advisory Committee on Women Veterans. In addition,
Johnson served on the Board and chaired several committees of the
Military Officers Association of America (MOAA). Johnson has been
awarded eight honorary doctoral degrees, and has extensive on-site
disaster relief experience, and has provided clinical care and/or
medical consultation on all seven continents.

**<u>Lucretia McClenney, Nominee for Member of the Asset and
Infrastructure Review Commission, Department of Veterans Affairs</u>**

Lucretia M. McClenney has dedicated her professional life to our
nation’s men and women who have served and are serving in uniformed
armed services, and their families. She served with distinction for 30
years in the Army in various medical treatment facilities and staffs
worldwide, and retired as a Colonel in November 2001. Immediately
following McClenney’s retirement from the Army, she joined the
Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) as Special Assistant to the
Assistant Secretary for Policy, Planning, and Preparedness. She also
served as Director of the VA’s Center for Minority Veterans, where she
was the principal advisor to the Secretary of the VA on policies and
programs affecting minority veterans. As an outcome of her efforts in
this role, the VA established an Office of Health Equity to ensure
health equity for all veterans.

Her dedication and passion for the health care of veterans led to her
selection in 2015 to serve on the congressionally mandated Commission on
Care that provided recommendations for transforming veterans’ health
care. She served as a consultant with the DOD Vietnam War Commemoration.
Currently, McClenney is a member of the Military Officers Association of
America (MOAA) Board of Directors, VA’s Former POW Advisory Committee, a
Life Member of The ROCKS, Inc., and a Life Member of Alpha Kappa
Sorority, Inc. She received a BSN from Murray State University, and an
MSN in Psychiatric/Mental Health Nursing from Catholic University. She
lives in Alexandria, VA.

**<u>José Ramos, Nominee for Member of the Asset and Infrastructure
Review Commission, Department of Veterans Affairs</u>**

José R. Ramos is the Vice President of Government and Community
Relations for the Wounded Warrior Project (WWP). Ramos grew up in El
Paso, TX and joined the Navy as a Hospital Corpsman, spending his entire
career serving alongside Marines as a platoon “Doc”. He served one tour
in Afghanistan and two tours in Iraq. In 2004, while serving as a member
of a Sniper Team, he was hit by a rocket and was severely injured. His
injuries were nearly fatal and included a left arm amputation, lung
contusions, nerve damage to the left leg, bulged discs in the lumbar
region, and numerous shrapnel wounds which led to his retirement from
service in November 2005. Ramos used adaptive sports through his
recovery, running the New York City Marathon, cycling with other injured
troops from Washington, D.C. to the Hamptons, N.Y. in seven days, and
competed in endurance events as a way of raising awareness for those
with disabilities.

In 2007, Ramos was appointed by President Bush to serve on the
President’s Commission on Care for America’s Returning Wounded Warriors,
tasked to conduct a review of the care America is providing wounded
servicemen and women returning from the battlefield. Ramos graduated
from George Mason University, *summa cum laude*, with a B.A. in
Government and International Politics and a Minor in Islamic Studies.
Earlier in Ramos’ career, he worked at the Center for Strategic and
International Studies, sat on the Peer Reviewed Orthopedic Research
Program Integration Panel for the Department of Defense, and served as a
Special Assistant at the Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense
for Legislative Affairs. Ramos resides in Great Falls, VA with his wife
Jodie, their sons Donovan and Luke, and their Labrador Scout.
