---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2022-03-25'
modified_time: 2022-03-25 12:03:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/03/25/united-states-and-european-commission-joint-statement-on-trans-atlantic-data-privacy-framework/
published_time: 2022-03-25 11:04:29-04:00
title: "United\_States and European Commission Joint Statement on Trans-Atlantic Data\
  \ Privacy\_Framework"
---
 
The United States and the European Commission announce that they have
agreed in principle on a new Trans-Atlantic Data Privacy Framework,
which will foster trans-Atlantic data flows and address the concerns
raised by the Court of Justice of the European Union in the *Schrems II*
decision of July 2020.   
  
The new Framework marks an unprecedented commitment on the U.S. side to
implement reforms that will strengthen the privacy and civil liberties
protections applicable to U.S. signals intelligence activities.  Under
the Trans-Atlantic Data Privacy Framework, the United States is to put
in place new safeguards to ensure that signals surveillance activities
are necessary and proportionate in the pursuit of defined national
security objectives, establish a two-level independent redress mechanism
with binding authority to direct remedial measures, and enhance rigorous
and layered oversight of signals intelligence activities to ensure
compliance with limitations on surveillance activities.  
  
The Trans-Atlantic Data Privacy Framework reflects more than a year of
detailed negotiations between the U.S. and E.U. led by Secretary of
Commerce Gina Raimondo and Commissioner for Justice Didier Reynders. It
will provide a durable basis for trans-Atlantic data flows, which are
critical to protecting citizens’ rights and enabling trans-Atlantic
commerce in all sectors of the economy, including for small and medium
enterprises.  By advancing cross-border data flows, the new framework
will promote an inclusive digital economy in which all people can
participate and in which companies of all sizes from all of our
countries can thrive.   
  
The announcement is another demonstration of the strength of the U.S.-EU
relationship, in that we continue to deepen our partnership as a
community of democracies to ensure both security and respect for privacy
and to enable economic opportunities for our companies and citizens. 
The new Framework will facilitate further U.S.-EU cooperation, including
through the Trade and Technology Council and through multilateral fora,
such as the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, on
digital policies.  
  
The teams of the U.S. Government and the European Commission will now
continue their cooperation with a view to translate this arrangement
into legal documents that will need to be adopted on both sides to put
in place this new Trans-Atlantic Data Privacy Framework. For that
purpose, these U.S. commitments will be included in an Executive Order
that will form the basis of the Commission’s assessment in its future
adequacy decision.

\###
