---
category: statements-releases
date: '2022-03-01'
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/03/01/fact-sheet-the-biden-administrations-historic-investments-to-create-opportunity-and-build-wealth-in-rural-america/
published_time: 2022-03-01 15:15:48-05:00
title: "FACT SHEET:   The Biden Administration\u2019s Historic Investments To Create\
  \ Opportunity and Build Wealth in Rural America"
---
 
President Biden is committed to ensuring that rural Americans have the
opportunity to succeed – and that they can find that
opportunity *in* rural America. This commitment is not just vital for
rural Americans, but vital for the country as a whole. For centuries,
rural Americans have driven the country’s economic growth and provided
the country and the world with food and fuel—and they continue to do so
today. They are small business owners revitalizing Main Streets. They
care for our land, ensuring that all Americans have access to nature and
recreation.  
  
In its first year, the Biden Administration has made historic
investments in rural communities through the American Rescue Plan:
slashing poverty and lowering costs, creating jobs and new economic
opportunities, and expanding access to health care. President Biden’s
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law provides a once-in-a-generation federal
investment so that all rural Americans gain access to clean drinking
water, are able to use high-speed broadband internet for education and
business, and have safe roads and bridges for both people and goods. In
addition, the Administration has invested $2.8 billion in coal and power
plant communities, ensuring that these communities that fueled our
country’s industrial revolution will continue to thrive in decades to
come.  
  
In the year ahead, the Biden Administration will partner with rural
America to determine how best to invest these unprecedented federal
resources to support local priorities.  
  
**Lowering costs for working families in rural America**  
  
The Biden Administration is building a stronger, more equitable economy
that does not leave anyone behind, including rural communities that for
too long have faced underinvestment and persistent poverty. Already,
because of the Administration’s support for working families through the
American Rescue Plan, rural poverty
is [estimated](https://www.urban.org/sites/default/files/publication/104603/2021-poverty-projections_0_0.pdf) to
have fallen by 70 percent in 2021. President Biden knows working
families are the backbone of our economy, and is delivering for them in
rural America.

-   **Tax relief for rural working families.** The American Rescue Plan
    increased the Child Tax Credit from $2,000 per child to $3,000 per
    child for children over the age of six, and from $2,000 to $3,600
    for children under the age of six, while raising the age limit from
    16 to 17 for 2021. The President’s plans call for extending this
    critical tax cut, which expired in December 2021. The American
    Rescue Plan also ensured that all lower- and moderate-income
    families were eligible for the full expanded child tax credit. In
    addition, the American Rescue Plan nearly tripled the maximum Earned
    Income Tax Credit for workers without dependent children to $1,500,
    benefitting about 2.7 million rural workers.  
     
-   **Lowering rural Americans’ rent and mortgage payments and energy
    and water bills. **The American Rescue Plan enabled single-family,
    COVID-affected borrowers with mortgages backed by the Department of
    Agriculture (USDA) to refinance their mortgages and provided rental
    assistance to 26,000 rural tenants. Rural Americans have also
    benefitted from the Department of the Treasury’s Emergency Rental
    Assistance Program and Homeowner Assistance Fund, which together
    provided tens-of-billions of dollars to keep people safely housed
    during the pandemic. In addition, the American Rescue Plan provided
    $4.5 billion for the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program—more
    than doubling typical annual funding—and $500 million for the
    first-ever federal water assistance program, lowering water and
    wastewater bills for rural households.  
     
-   **Lower child care costs and support child care providers. **Even
    before the pandemic, nearly two-thirds of rural Americans lived in
    areas where there is a significant shortage of licensed child care
    slots, with nine infants and toddlers for every one child care slot
    in rural America. Rural children are less likely to be enrolled in
    pre-K programs than urban and suburban children. The pandemic made
    it harder for rural families to access these programs – with 1 in 11
    licensed child care providers closing before between December 2020
    and March 2021. The President secured $39 billion in American Rescue
    Plan funds to provide a lifeline to child care providers so they
    could stay open without raising prices for families. This funding
    has already reached more than 150,000 child care providers,
    including those across rural America. The American Rescue Plan also
    provided funding to all 1,600 Head Start grantees, which serve the
    vast majority of rural counties and sometimes serve as the only
    provider in a rural community. This funding helped allow these
    grantees to serve 91% of Head Start children fully in-person,
    compared to 38% in December 2020. Early care and education were out
    of reach for too many rural families before the pandemic, which is
    why the President has also called on Congress to cut child care
    spending in half for most families, offer every 3- and 4-year old
    free preschool, and boost the number of high-quality child care
    programs in high-need areas, including in rural America.
-   **Helping states and local governments – as well as tribes and
    territories – provide additional direct assistance to lower
    families’ costs. **The American Rescue Plan delivered $350 billion
    for the State and Local Fiscal Recovery Fund, providing support for
    critical investments in 3,000 counties and 30,000 small towns. These
    funds offer the flexibility local governments need to address their
    communities’ most pressing needs. Already, over 20 states and scores
    of counties have used these funds to directly help families,
    including critical food assistance, utility assistance, and other
    help with basics for the hardest hit families. For example,
    Macon-Bibb County, GA committed $2.5 million to fight food
    insecurity in the community, including funds to address food deserts
    and support local food banks; New Hanover County, NH has committed
    $1 million to support homeowners who are behind on their mortgage;
    and Doña Ana County, NM has committed $1.2 million in direct medical
    relief funds for COVID-19 medical bills.

<!-- -->

-   **Lowering costs and improving access to an education beyond high
    school for rural students. **The Department of Education (ED) is
    investing $198 million in American Rescue Plan funding for
    competitive grants for rural colleges and universities that serve a
    high percentage of low-income students and are experiencing
    enrollment declines. With this funding, rural institutions can cover
    the cost of COVID-19 mitigation efforts, such as testing and
    personal protective equipment; support their students’ ability to
    meet basic needs by providing meal vouchers, childcare subsidies,
    and mental health services; facilitate continued enrollment and
    re-enrollment through support services such as academic counseling;
    and expand workforce programs that lead to in-demand jobs.    
     
-   **Improved access to affordable, nutritious food for rural
    Americans. **Through the American Rescue Plan, USDA expanded access
    to the Pandemic EBT (P-EBT) program, including through the summer,
    to allow families with children receiving school meals to purchase
    healthy food more easily. The American Rescue Plan also increased
    SNAP benefits by 15% through September 2021. Beginning on October 1,
    2021, USDA’s Thrifty Food Plan update increased SNAP benefits by
    $36.30 per person per month on average. These updates
    will [increase](https://www.cbpp.org/research/food-assistance/usda-announces-important-snap-benefit-modernization) the
    well-being of 2.9 million people in rural areas, including 800,000
    children, reducing rural poverty by 11 percent and rural child
    poverty by 20 percent. USDA also invested $1 billion, including $500
    million in American Rescue Plan funding, in The Emergency Food
    Assistance Program (TEFAP) to support and expand emergency food
    access so states, food banks, and local organizations can reliably
    serve their communities, with a focus on reaching rural and
    underserved areas.

**Creating jobs in rural America and supporting rural-led economic
development**

The Biden Administration is committed to expanding opportunity to all
corners of the country. That means good-paying, union jobs and economic
opportunity in rural communities so that today’s workers can live with
dignity and security, and rural youth can see a bright future right in
their hometowns. As of October 2021, the unemployment rate in rural
counties that experience persistent poverty
had [returned](https://www.ers.usda.gov/data-products/chart-gallery/gallery/chart-detail/?chartId=102922) to
pre-pandemic levels, ranging from 3.4 percent to 4.7 percent. President
Biden will continue building on that progress and the many efforts
across the Administration to create jobs and build wealth in rural
America.

-   **Build resilient rural economies.** The American Rescue Plan
    invested a historic $3 billion in the Department of Commerce’s (DOC)
    Economic Development Administration (EDA) to build local economies
    that are resilient to future economic shocks, including a $300
    million Coal Communities Commitment. In December 2021, EDA announced
    60 finalists for its $1 billion Build Back Better Regional
    Challenge, which will support regional coalitions to develop
    transformative projects that strengthen regional industry clusters.
    These finalists include 12 coal communities, and more than 80% of
    the finalists propose to serve rural communities, including ten
    proposals focused on growing or developing agriculture and natural
    resource industries.  
     
-   **Revitalize America’s energy communities.** In February 2021,
    President Biden established the Interagency Working Group on Coal
    and Power Plant Communities and Economic Revitalization to identify
    and deliver resources to the coal, oil and gas, and power plant
    communities that have powered our country for generations. The
    working group identified [25
    communities](https://energycommunities.gov/priority-energy-communities/) across
    the country for immediate strategic investment. Since then, member
    agencies have delivered more than $2.8 billion in federal investment
    to these communities, including $167 million through USDA’s
    Renewable Energy for America Program and the Electric Loan Program.
    The working group also established a [resource
    clearinghouse](https://energycommunities.gov/funding-opportunities/) with
    more than $181 billion in open and planned funding opportunities for
    energy communities, to facilitate access to federal programs.  
     
-   **Invest in state and local workforce programs and small business
    support.** More than half of all states are using the American
    Rescue Plan State and Local Fiscal Recovery Fund to retain and train
    workers for new and better jobs, and over 20 states have provided
    direct support to small businesses. Wisconsin’s $9.4 million
    investment in American Rescue Plan funds in University of
    Wisconsin-Eau Claire’s regional workforce development strategy
    recruits and connects rural workers and students with careers in
    healthcare, education, and social services – areas where the state
    has critical shortages. Gallatin County, MT is investing $2 million
    in American Rescue Plan funds to develop and expand programs in
    construction trades, welding, fabrication, manufacturing and
    healthcare. And, local governments are using American Rescue Plan
    funds to retain essential workers across the country, from Erie, NY
    to St. Croix County, WI to Umatilla County, OR.  
     
-   **Support outreach and technical assistance to rural
    businesses.** The Small Business Administration’s (SBA) Community
    Navigator Pilot Program, funded by the American Rescue Plan, is
    reducing barriers that underrepresented and underserved
    entrepreneurs – including those in rural America – often face in
    accessing the resources they need to recover, grow, or start their
    businesses. The program is providing a total of $100 million to 51
    nonprofits, state and local governments, universities, and tribal
    entities that will work with organizations in all 50 states and
    Puerto Rico to provide technical assistance to small businesses in
    underserved communities.  
     
-   **Advance workforce development solutions in rural
    communities. **The Department of Labor’s (DOL) Workforce Opportunity
    for Rural Communities Initiative (WORC) is a partnership with the
    Appalachian Regional Commission and the Delta Regional Authority to
    support workers in rural communities impacted by economic
    transitions, especially in the energy sector. WORC funds provide job
    training and support services to dislocated workers, incumbent
    workers, and new entrants to the workforce to help connect them with
    good jobs in high-demand occupations. In 2021, DOL announced a third
    round of WORC grants for $29 million to 23 organizations,
    demonstrating the Biden Administration’s ongoing commitment to
    strengthening economic stability and opportunities for workers in
    rural communities.  
     
-   **Grow rural America’s outdoor recreation economy by expanding
    hunting and fishing.** To help expand rural America’s outdoor
    recreation economy, the Biden Administration last year opened new or
    expanded hunting and fishing opportunities on 2.1 million acres of
    public lands, the largest such expansion in U.S. history. The
    Administration also recently announced a record [$1.5
    billion](https://www.doi.gov/pressreleases/interior-department-announces-over-15-billion-support-state-wildlife-conservation-and) in
    annual funding through the Wildlife and Sport Fish Restoration
    Program to support state and local outdoor recreational
    opportunities, and wildlife and habitat conservation efforts. These
    efforts, along with a new Task Force on Collaborative Conservation
    that the Administration launched in partnership with the Western
    Governors Association, will support America’s hunting and fishing
    traditions and help power the continued growth of the nation’s
    outdoor economy. In addition, the Departments of Agriculture and the
    Interior are collaborating to invest [$2.8
    billion](https://www.usda.gov/media/press-releases/2021/06/03/president-bidens-budget-invests-28-billion-support-economies) under
    the Great American Outdoors Act to improve access, experiences, and
    partnerships for outdoor recreation that not only promote tourism
    but also protect America’s public lands while creating jobs and
    opportunities in rural communities. EDA is also investing $750
    million in American Rescue Plan funding through the Travel, Tourism
    & Outdoor Recreation program, including $510 million that has
    already been provided to states.

**Responding to the COVID-19 pandemic in rural communities**

The COVID-19 pandemic spared no part of the country, but rural
communities have faced additional challenges that impact the delivery of
services and assistance, including limited health care infrastructure
and clinicians. As our nation turned the tide of the pandemic from
crisis to recovery, the Biden Administration worked to ensure rural
communities have the tools they need to combat COVID-19, keep schools
open and safe, and come back stronger than before.

-   **Safely reopen rural schools and help students make up for lost
    learning time. **The American Rescue Plan surged $130 billion to our
    states, territories, tribes, and local communities to help them
    safely reopen our schools and keep them open, while addressing the
    impacts of the pandemic on students, including on their learning and
    mental health. Roughly $16 billion of these funds went to rural
    communities and $850 million went to Bureau of Indian Education
    (BIE) schools and Tribally-controlled Colleges and Universities
    (TCCUs). These are critical resources that are helping rural
    communities and school districts meet key challenges, including
    funds that school districts can use to address staff shortages. In
    addition, investments in broadband in the Bipartisan Infrastructure
    Law will be critical to supporting the education of young people in
    rural communities and closing the homework gap. As part of the Biden
    Administration’s commitment to reopen healthy learning environments,
    USDA issued a broad range of flexibilities and provided significant
    additional resources to allow school meal programs across the
    country to return to serving nutritious meals in fall 2021.  
     

<!-- -->

-   **Dedicated COVID-19 testing for rural hospitals and clinics. **The
    Biden Administration delivered $425 million in American Rescue Plan
    funding to support COVID-19 testing and mitigation in 4,200 rural
    health clinics, and $398 million in funding to support COVID-19
    testing and mitigation for over 1,500 small rural hospitals. HHS
    provided up to $100,000 per clinic and up to $230,000 per hospital
    to increase COVID-19 testing, expand access to testing in rural
    communities, and broaden efforts to respond to and mitigate the
    spread of the virus in ways tailored to community needs.  
     
-   **Deliver rapid tests to rural health clinics. **HHS is currently
    distributing millions of rapid over-the-counter at-home COVID-19
    tests to rural health clinics that reach uninsured and underserved
    communities, often among those hardest-hit by the pandemic.  
     
-   **Increase vaccine education and outreach efforts in rural
    communities.** The Biden Administration awarded over $100 million in
    American Rescue Plan funding to rural health clinics across the
    country to support vaccine outreach in rural communities. This
    funding is being used to assist rural residents in accessing
    vaccinations, as well as education and outreach efforts around the
    benefits of vaccination.   
     
-   **Expand access to COVID-19 vaccines, testing, and supplies, while
    strengthening rural health care providers. **The American Rescue
    Plan provided $500 million for USDA to create the Emergency Rural
    Health Care Grant Program. The program provides $350 million to help
    rural hospitals and local communities increase access to COVID-19
    vaccines and testing, medical supplies, telehealth, and food
    assistance, and support the construction or renovation of rural
    health care facilities. It also provides recovery funds that
    compensate for lost revenue or staffing expenses due to COVID-19. In
    addition, the program provides up to $125 million in grants to plan
    and implement models that help improve the long-term viability of
    rural health care providers, including health care networks that
    allow rural providers to collectively address community challenges
    and develop innovative solutions.

**Improving access to health care and lowering health care costs for
rural communities**

Rural communities face persistent disparities in health outcomes and
access to care, including higher rates of uninsured individuals, health
care workforce shortages, and often difficulty reaching the nearest
hospital. In many rural communities, the hospital is the largest
employer in the area, providing jobs and supporting the local economy.
Yet, rural hospitals have increasingly closed their doors, including 19
in 2020 alone. And rural hospital closures have been pervasive in
non-expansion states. Of the ten states with the most rural hospital
closures since 2010, most are in non-expansion states —the only two that
are not, Oklahoma and Missouri, just began their expansions in 2021.
Moreover, rural counties in the South are [racially and ethnically
diverse](https://www.brookings.edu/blog/the-avenue/2021/09/28/mapping-rural-americas-diversity-and-demographic-change/),
and in some non-expansion states, rural hospitals that closed were more
likely to be in counties with a higher share of Black residents.
Similar [disparities](https://www.shepscenter.unc.edu/wp-content/uploads/dlm_uploads/2017/11/Characteristics-of-Communities-Served-by-Hospitals-at-High-Risk-of-Financial-Distress-1.pdf) exist
for rural hospitals *at risk* of closure. The Biden Administration is
taking action to improve the health of rural communities by ensuring
rural Americans have the health care and coverage they need and deserve
and helping rural hospitals stay open.

-   **Lower health care costs for rural Americans.** The American Rescue
    Plan has done more to lower costs and expand access to health care
    than any action since the passage of the Affordable Care Act. It has
    made quality coverage more affordable than ever—with families saving
    an average of $2,400 on their annual premiums, and four out of five
    consumers finding quality coverage for under $10 a month. The
    President’s plan continues these savings, keeping health insurance
    affordable for millions of Americans, including those living in
    rural communities.  
     
-   **Expand rural health care coverage and keep rural hospitals
    open. **Since President Biden took office, nearly 700,000 rural
    Americans have gained coverage through the Affordable Care Act and
    the American Rescue Plan. Throughout 2021, the Administration
    ensured that rural Americans who needed coverage could sign up for
    it, including through the most recent HealthCare.gov Open Enrollment
    period in which over 1.8 million rural Americans enrolled in
    coverage. The President’s plan builds on that progress, expanding
    Medicaid coverage in those states that have refused to expand it.
    Closing this gap is estimated to reduce the risk of rural hospital
    closure by 62%. Rural hospital closures deprive people living in
    rural areas of crucial services, including access to emergency
    care. To fill this gap, HHS will establish a new provider type,
    Rural Emergency Hospitals, which will allow facilities to offer
    emergency department services, observation care, and/or outpatient
    services in rural areas.  
     
-   **Support rural health care providers.** The American Rescue Plan
    provided $8.5 billion in American Rescue Plan funding to help
    compensate health care providers who serve rural Medicare, Medicaid,
    and Children’s Health Insurance Plan (CHIP) patients for lost
    revenue and increased expenses associated with COVID-19. In December
    2021, HHS announced that it distributed $7.5 billion of these funds
    to 40,000 providers in all 50 states, Washington, D.C., and six
    territories. These funds help ensure that providers can effectively
    respond to the COVID-19 pandemic, including supporting recruitment
    and retention efforts amidst workforce shortages and staff burnout,
    and place them on stable financial footing to continue serving their
    communities into the future.  
     
-   **Increase the number of health care providers in rural
    communities.** The Administration made a historic $1.5 billion
    investment, including $1 billion from the American Rescue Plan, in
    its health workforce loan repayment and scholarship programs. More
    than 22,700 primary care clinicians funded by these programs now
    serve in underserved communities, including rural and tribal
    communities—the largest number ever. This group of health care
    providers includes nearly 20,000 National Health Service Corps
    members, more than 2,500 Nurse Corps nurses, and approximately 250
    awardees under a new program, the Substance Use Disorder Treatment
    and Recovery Loan Repayment Program. Currently, one-third of HHS’s
    Health Resources and Services Administration workforce serves in a
    rural community where health care access may be especially limited
    or require patients to travel long distances to receive treatment.
    HHS is also making $48 million from the American Rescue Plan
    available to expand public health capacity in rural and tribal
    communities through health care job development, training, and
    placement. This will increase the number of well-trained health care
    professionals and connect them with future employers, including
    hospitals and clinics in rural areas.  
     
-   **Expand access to pulmonary rehabilitation services. **This year,
    HHS will support a demonstration project to enhance access to
    pulmonary rehabilitation services in Critical Access Hospitals that
    serve rural communities with high rates of chronic obstructive
    pulmonary disease (COPD). COPD is one of the leading causes of death
    in the U.S., and adults in rural areas are almost twice as likely to
    have it compared to those in urban areas.  
     
-   **Expand Veterans Affairs training programs for rural providers
    outside of the VA system.** The Rural Interprofessional Faculty
    Development Initiative, developed by the Department of Veterans
    Affairs (VA), is an innovative two-year training program designed to
    provide teaching and training skills for clinicians in rural
    settings, preparing rural clinicians to take on faculty roles,
    mentor medical professionals to serve in rural America, and grow the
    healthcare workforce in rural communities. In 2021, VA launched a
    new joint initiative with HHS, adding non-VA community clinicians to
    the program. This joint initiative will benefit up to 40 rural
    communities each year and enable rural clinicians to better train
    the next generation of clinicians who will serve rural America.  
     
-   **Increase access to telehealth.** Telehealth services greatly
    increased during the pandemic and the Biden-Harris Administration
    has issued several telehealth supports including research conducted
    by NIH; funding for broadband, smart phones and internet
    connectivity; and an expansion of eligible services that can be
    delivered via telehealth, including a new rule that expands access
    to tele-mental health services for Medicare beneficiaries. Medicare
    will also now pay for mental health visits furnished via telehealth
    when they are provided by Rural Health Clinics and Federally
    Qualified Health Centers. This policy expands access to Medicare
    beneficiaries, especially those living in rural and other
    underserved areas.  
     
-   **Ensure access to effective treatment and recovery for substance
    use disorders.** In January, HHS announced the availability of $13
    million in funding to increase access to behavioral health care
    services and address health inequities in rural America, including
    through evidence-based, trauma-informed treatment for substance use
    disorder.  
     
-   **Address America’s mental health crisis.** Through the American
    Rescue Plan, the Administration has made significant investments in
    expanding access to mental health and substance use services. The
    President’s FY22 budget also calls for investments in the mental
    health care workforce that will help address the shortage of
    professionals in rural and underserved areas. The Administration is
    committed to additional actions to address the mental health crisis
    by building workforce capacity, connecting more people to care, and
    creating a continuum of support for all Americans.  
     
-   **Support states in making public health investments through the
    American Rescue Plan State and Local Fiscal Recovery Fund. **Over
    two thirds of states and hundreds of communities have already
    committed funds from the American Rescue Plan State and Local Fiscal
    Recovery Fund to address public health needs in their communities.
    For example, the State of Colorado is investing in an online
    training curriculum for providers in rural areas on mental health
    and substance use disorders to improve behavioral health supports.
    Bowie County, TX partnered with Christus St. Michael Hospital to
    provide vaccines at the hospital facility and several mobile vaccine
    clinics throughout the county, to reach the rural area of the
    county.

**Rebuilding rural America’s infrastructure with a once-in-a-generation
investment**

For far too long, critical infrastructure needs in rural communities
have been ignored. Building on an initial investment in the American
Rescue Plan, the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law delivers on the
President’s promises to provide high speed internet, safe roads and
bridges, modern wastewater systems, clean drinking water, reliable and
affordable electricity, and good paying jobs in every rural community. A
generational investment in rural America, the Bipartisan Infrastructure
Law will spend billions of dollars to revitalize and rebuild rural
communities across the country.

-   **Provide high-speed internet to every home and making internet
    affordable for low-income rural Americans. **By one definition, more
    than 30 million Americans live in areas where there is no broadband
    infrastructure that provides minimally acceptable speeds – a
    particular problem in rural areas across the country. The Bipartisan
    Infrastructure Law invests $65 billion to make high-speed internet
    available to all Americans, bring down high-speed internet prices
    across the board, and provide technical assistance to rural
    communities seeking to expand broadband. In addition, it will help
    families afford internet service by providing eligible households
    with a discount of up to $30 per month toward internet services, as
    well as a one-time discount of up to $100 to purchase a laptop,
    desktop or tablet.
-   **Invest in critical rural broadband and water infrastructure
    through the American Rescue Plan State and Local Fiscal Recovery
    Fund.** Through the American Rescue Plan’s State and Local Fiscal
    Recovery Fund, 20 states have expanded access to high-speed internet
    and 21 states are improving water and sewer infrastructure,
    including lead removal. Additionally, many local communities are
    leveraging American Rescue Plan funds to expand broadband services
    in rural areas. For example, Kandiyohi County, MN made an initial
    $1.3 million investment in a project that will expand high-speed
    broadband to rural townships. Miami County, FL allocated $1.4
    million to help fund an expansion of high-speed internet to rural
    parts of the county, including to underserved students in low-income
    areas. Oconto County, WI approved $2 million to provide high-speed
    wireless internet to underserved rural areas.  
     
-   **Create good-paying jobs cleaning up legacy pollution in rural
    communities. **The President is committed to creating good-paying
    jobs in rural communities across the country and ensuring those
    communities are safe, high-quality places to live. Legacy pollution
    from industries that extracted natural resources from rural areas
    and left behind huge quantities of environmental degradation has
    held back the economic growth and success of rural communities. The
    Bipartisan Infrastructure Law is creating good-paying jobs cleaning
    up these sites by investing $4.7 billion through an interagency
    initiative to plug, remediate, and restore dangerous orphan well
    sites across the country; nearly $11.3 billion to create good-paying
    union jobs and catalyze economic opportunity by reclaiming abandoned
    mine lands; and $1 billion to initiate cleanup and clear the backlog
    of 49 previously unfunded Superfund sites and accelerate cleanup at
    dozens of other sites across the country.  
     
-   **Improve rural Americans’ access to transit systems and functional
    highway systems to they can get to school and work and bring their
    products to market. **Limited access to transportation options in
    rural and remote areas impedes American’s access to jobs, basic
    services, and their communities. The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law
    invests billions of dollars to make sure rural families can get
    where they need to go, including through a $4.58 billion investment
    in Rural Area Formula Grants at the Department of Transportation
    (DOT). This program will support 1,300 rural transit systems by
    enabling them to purchase transit vehicles and infrastructure, plan
    transit more effectively, and fund operations. This investment
    builds on $282 million in American Rescue Plan funding that helped
    rural transit systems maintain and restore service during the
    pandemic.  
     
-   **Ensure clean drinking water and basic sanitation in rural
    homes. **Across the country, including in rural and Tribal
    communities, pipes and treatment plants are aging and polluted
    drinking water endanger public health. The Bipartisan Infrastructure
    Law’s transformative $55 billion investment in our water and
    wastewater infrastructure will fundamentally change quality of life
    for millions of Americans by eliminating lead pipes, providing
    critical access to sanitation, ensuring access to affordable clean
    drinking water, and reducing drought.  
     
-   **Build rural communities resilient to natural disasters and the
    threats of climate change. **Last year, the United States faced 22
    extreme weather and climate-related disaster events with losses over
    $1 billion – a cumulative price tag of nearly $100 billion. These
    included damaging floods, wildfires, and wind storms across rural
    America. The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law will improve the
    resilience of rural communities by investing $3.5 billion to improve
    home energy efficiency for low-income families, reducing energy
    costs, improving household comfort and safety, and cutting
    pollution.  
     
-   **Invest in resilience and restoration on national forest
    lands.** The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law will restore our national
    forests through the planting of 1.2 billion trees over the next
    decade, coupled with landmark investments in science-based hazardous
    fuels treatments that will protect communities from wildfire. The
    resources in the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law will provide a
    critical down payment to implement the USDA Forest Service’s 10-year
    strategy to reduce wildfire, which has a goal of treating 50 million
    acres across Federal and non-Federal lands.   
     
-   **Provide high-quality, safe roads and bridges for rural
    communities. **While Americans living in rural areas account for
    just 20% of the population, they comprise nearly half of all roadway
    fatalities. The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law will deliver safer
    roads, bridges, railway crossings, and other critical improvement to
    the quality and safety of our roadways. The Bipartisan
    Infrastructure Law also invests $1.2 billion to complete the
    Appalachian Development Highway System, connecting the rural regions
    of Appalachia, creating jobs, and linking businesses with domestic
    and international markets.  
     
-   **Upgrade electric and transmission infrastructure in rural
    America.** Power outages cost the U.S. economy up to $70 billion
    annually. For example, the recent Texas power outages caused
    estimated losses of up to $90 billion for the state. At times, rural
    communities can be without power for days during these outages. The
    Bipartisan Infrastructure Law invests $1 billion in Energy
    Improvement in Rural or Remote Areas to support entities in rural or
    remote areas to increase environmental protection from the impacts
    of energy use and improve resilience, reliability, safety, and
    availability of energy.  
     
-   **Explore the use of materials made from bioproducts to open up new
    market opportunities for farmers. **The Bipartisan Infrastructure
    Law invests $10 million in grants to support research on the
    economic, social and environmental benefits of using materials
    derived from bioproducts in the development and manufacturing of
    construction and consumer products.

**Strengthening the food system and creating market opportunities for
America’s farmers, ranchers and foresters**

Throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, American farmers, ranchers,
processors, farmworkers, and other workers across the supply chain
continued to adapt and put food on the table for American families,
despite disruptions and other challenges. The Biden-Harris
Administration is building on lessons learned during the pandemic to
transform the food system so that it is more competitive, balanced, and
equitable for everyone working in food and agriculture.

-   **Address supply chain disruptions for families and farmers. **As
    part of a whole-of-government response to tackle new and emerging
    near-term supply chain disruptions arising from the COVID-19
    pandemic and historic economic recovery, President Biden established
    a Supply Chain Disruptions Task Force in June, bringing together
    industry, labor, and federal partners to alleviate bottlenecks and
    higher input costs for farmers, address rising prices at the grocery
    store, and support agricultural exporters. For example, USDA is
    leveraging $100 million in American Rescue Plan funds to offer a
    Food Supply Chain Guaranteed Loan Program, making available nearly
    $1 billion in loan guarantees to back private investment in
    processing and food supply infrastructure that will strengthen the
    food supply chain for the American people and create jobs in rural
    communities.  
     
-   **Advance equity in agriculture. **In February 2022, USDA held the
    first meeting of the new USDA Equity Commission, which is supported
    by the American Rescue Plan and will evaluate USDA programs and
    services and recommend how USDA can reduce barriers for accessing
    them.  Additionally, USDA has begun to deploy American Rescue Plan
    funds to support technical assistance and access to land, credit,
    and markets for historically underserved producers. USDA provided
    $50 million in Natural Resource Conservation Funds to organizations
    working with underserved communities and another approximately $75
    million in American Rescue Plan funding to 20 organizations to
    provide technical assistance to connect underserved producers with
    USDA programs and services. Additionally, in July 2021, USDA rolled
    out the Heirs’ Property Relending Program, which provides funds to
    assist heirs in resolving ownership and succession issues on
    farmland with multiple owners.  
     
-   **Support a fairer, more competitive, and more resilient meat and
    poultry supply chain. **In, January 2022, the Biden-Harris
    Administration announced its [Action Plan for a Fairer, More
    Competitive, and More Resilient Meat and Poultry Supply
    Chain](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/01/03/fact-sheet-the-biden-harris-action-plan-for-a-fairer-more-competitive-and-more-resilient-meat-and-poultry-supply-chain/),
    outlining how USDA will invest an additional $900 million in
    American Rescue Plan funding. As part of this effort, USDA recently
    announced $150 million in grants for new and expanded processing
    through a new [Meat and Poultry Processing Expansion
    Program](https://www.rd.usda.gov/mppep), $25 million to provide
    technical assistance support, and $40 million to support workforce
    development and training, including at community and junior colleges
    and Minority-Serving Institutions. As part of the Action Plan, USDA
    will invest $500 million in additional grants and lending to further
    strengthen financing for independent processing, along with $85
    million in additional funding for workforce development and to
    promote innovation in this sector. This work builds on the $100
    million already available to reduce overtime and holiday inspection
    fees to help small processing plants keep up with unprecedented
    demand. This also builds on USDA’s December 2021 announcement of $32
    million in pandemic assistance funds to more than 160 meat and
    poultry processors, helping them get federally inspected so they can
    reach more customers.  
     
-   **Issue stronger rules under the *Packers & Stockyards Act* and new
    rulemaking on “Product of USA” labeling to protect farmers,
    ranchers, and consumers, as well as promote an all-of-government
    approach to strengthening competition.** USDA has begun work on
    three proposed rules to provide greater clarity and strengthen
    enforcement under the Packers & Stockyards Act, and USDA will also
    pursue rulemaking to ensure the “Product of USA” label for meat
    products meets consumer expectations and allows for fair and
    competitive markets. In February 2022, the Department of Justice
    (DOJ) and USDA launched a new joint initiative to better coordinate
    their enforcement efforts, including a new
    portal—FarmerFairness.gov—for reporting concerns about potential
    violations of competition laws. And today, the President is
    announcing an historic agreement between the DOJ and the Federal
    Maritime Commission to put more cops on the beat to ensure large,
    foreign ocean carriers cannot take advantage of U.S. farmers,
    businesses, and consumers.  
     
-   **Ensuring nutritious food gets to those who need it while opening
    up new market opportunities for farmers and ranchers. **In December
    2021, USDA committed $1.5 billion in funds from the Commodity Credit
    Corporation to help schools make direct food purchases and access
    food purchased by USDA and will also invest in cooperative
    agreements with state and Tribal governments to purchase foods from
    local underserved producers. All purchases will support domestic
    agriculture. Additionally, in December 2021, USDA announced a new
    Local Food Purchase Assistance Cooperative Agreement Program that
    will award up to $400 million for emergency food assistance
    purchases of domestic local foods. Utilizing American Rescue Plan
    funds, these purchases will expand local and regional markets and
    place an emphasis on purchasing from historically underserved
    farmers and ranchers.  
     
-   **Ensuring all of agriculture benefits from financial assistance to
    address the impacts of COVID-19.** The pandemic affected all of
    agriculture, but many farmers did not benefit from previous rounds
    of pandemic-related assistance under the previous administration’s
    Coronavirus Food Assistance Program (CFAP). The Biden-Harris
    Administration worked to fill those gaps to help get financial
    assistance to a broader set of producers, including to underserved
    communities, small and medium sized producers, and farmers and
    producers of less traditional crops.
    USDA [announced](https://www.usda.gov/media/press-releases/2021/03/24/after-identifying-gaps-previous-aid-usda-announces-pandemic) ‘Pandemic
    Assistance for Producers’ to distribute resources more equitably and
    committed to directing at least $6 billion to the agricultural
    producers and sectors that needed assistance the most. This includes
    re-opening signup for CFAP2, $700 million in grants to [provide
    relief](https://www.usda.gov/media/press-releases/2021/09/07/usda-invests-700-million-grants-provide-relief-farm-and-food) to
    farm and food workers affected by COVID-19; $700 million to [provide
    relief](https://www.usda.gov/media/press-releases/2021/09/09/usda-invests-700-million-provide-relief-small-producers-processors) for
    small producers, processors, farmers markets and seafood vessels
    affected by COVID-19; and $2 million to establish partnerships with
    organizations to provide outreach and technical assistance to
    historically underserved farmers and ranchers. As a result, there
    was a fourfold increase in participation among historically
    underserved producers in CFAP2 since April 2021.    
     
-   **Invest in farmworker training.** DOL’s National Farmworker Jobs
    Program provides grants to community-based organizations and public
    agencies to enable farmworkers to receive skills training, career
    services and other critical services like housing assistance to help
    them obtain, retain and advance in the agricultural sector. DOL
    awarded $87 million in career services and training grants across
    the United States and Puerto Rico and $6.2 million in housing
    grants.
-   **Pay farmers, ranchers, and forest landowners to be part of the
    solution to climate change. **In February 2022, USDA launched a $1
    billion investment in partnerships to support America’s
    climate-smart farmers, ranchers, and forest landowners. The
    new [Partnerships for Climate-Smart
    Commodities](https://www.usda.gov/climate-solutions) opportunity
    will finance pilot projects that create market opportunities for
    U.S. agricultural and forestry products that use climate-smart
    production practices and include innovative, cost-effective ways to
    measure and verify greenhouse gas benefits. USDA has also invested
    $50 million in new 118 partnerships to expand access to conservation
    assistance for climate-smart agriculture and forestry. The new
    Equity Conservation Cooperative Agreements will fund two-year
    projects to expand the delivery of conservation assistance to
    farmers who are new to farming, low-income, historically
    underserved, or military veterans.

<!-- -->

-   **Reward farmers, ranchers, and forest owners for their voluntary
    conservation efforts**. Recognizing the critical role that America’s
    farmers, ranchers, and forest-owners play in the stewardship of the
    nation’s lands, waters, and wildlife, the Administration is, as part
    of the President’s America the Beautiful Initiative, expanding
    support for voluntary conservation efforts on private lands. USDA,
    for example, has made changes to its Conservation Reserve
    Enhancement Program to remove barriers to access and provide
    partners increased flexibility to participate in and benefit from
    the program.  USDA enrolled 5.3 million new acres in the
    Conservation Reserve Program by raising rental payment rates and
    expanding the number of incentivized environmental practices allowed
    under the program.   
     
-   **Support renewable fuel producers and infrastructure.** USDA
    has [dedicated](https://www.usda.gov/media/press-releases/2021/12/07/usda-make-800-million-available-provide-economic-relief-biofuel) $700
    million to provide economic relief to biofuel producers and restore
    renewable fuel markets affected by the pandemic, and committed to
    $100 million to increase the sales and use of higher blends of
    bioethanol and biodiesel by expanding the infrastructure for
    renewable fuels derived from U.S. agricultural products.  
     
-   **Facilitate U.S. agricultural products in reaching export
    markets. **USDA is working with the Port of Oakland to set up a new
    “pop-up” site to make it easier for agricultural companies to fill
    empty shipping containers. The new site, supported by Commodity
    Credit Corporation funds, will provide access to equipment and
    provide trucks faster turns without having to wait for in-terminal
    space. The Port of Oakland is a potential model for other ports
    experiencing similar issues. The Administration also continues to
    call on ocean carriers to mitigate disruptions to agricultural
    shippers by restoring full and fair service to the Port of Oakland.
    In addition, over $600 million in American Rescue Plan resources
    have already been announced to strengthen the port workforce and
    improve facility efficiency at our most critical ports, from
    California and Florida to Massachusetts and Louisiana.  
     
-   **Ensure trade rules work for American farmers and ranchers.** The
    United
    States [prevailed](https://ustr.gov/about-us/policy-offices/press-office/press-releases/2022/january/united-states-prevails-usmca-dispute-canadian-dairy-restrictions) in
    the first dispute settlement panel proceeding under the
    U.S.-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA), bringing the U.S. dairy sector
    one step closer to realizing the full benefits of the USMCA. The
    Administration scored another trade policy win when Vice President
    Kamala Harris traveled to Hanoi in August 2021, securing
    a [commitment](https://www.fas.usda.gov/newsroom/vietnam-lowers-mfn-tariffs-corn-wheat-pork) from
    the Vietnamese government to reduce tariffs on U.S. agricultural
    products. This will give U.S. corn, wheat, and pork producers
    greater access to our seventh-largest agricultural export market, in
    line with competitors from countries that have free trade agreements
    with Vietnam. These actions contributed to
    a [record-shattering](https://www.usda.gov/media/press-releases/2022/02/08/american-agricultural-exports-shattered-records-2021) $177
    billion in exports of U.S. farm and food products in 2021.

\###
