---
category: statements-releases
date: '2022-03-29'
modified_time: 2022-03-29 13:07:30-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/03/29/u-s-singapore-joint-leaders-statement/
published_time: 2022-03-29 13:15:00-04:00
title: "U.S.-Singapore Joint Leaders\u2019\_Statement"
---
 
President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. is honored to welcome Prime Minister of
the Republic of Singapore Lee Hsien Loong to Washington, D.C. The
U.S.-Singapore strategic partnership is anchored in our shared respect
for the rules-based international order, adherence to international law,
and the principles enshrined in the United Nations Charter – including
respect for sovereignty, the peaceful resolution of disputes,
cooperation among nations, and fundamental human rights. These
principles have underpinned decades of unprecedented peace and stability
as well as economic and social development, in the Indo-Pacific region
and around the world.  
  
The United States and Singapore recognize that threats to the UN Charter
and rules-based international order anywhere, including Russia’s
unprovoked attack on Ukraine, place peace and prosperity everywhere at
risk. The war in Ukraine has a negative impact on the Indo-Pacific
region, which already faces many complex challenges. Taken together, the
opportunities and challenges of the 21st century demand deeper
cooperation between us.  
  
The leaders welcome the enduring strength of the bilateral strategic
partnership, marked by Singapore’s unique status as a Major Security
Cooperation Partner, by the 5,400 U.S. companies that call Singapore
home, by the countries’ close people-to-people ties, and by the series
of high-level bilateral visits during the first year of the Biden-Harris
Administration. The leaders resolve to further expand bilateral
cooperation, taking bold new steps to drive broad-based economic growth
and innovation, raise infrastructure standards in the region, address
the climate crisis, promote health security, increase supply chain
resilience, improve cybersecurity, ensure the long-term sustainability
of outer space activities, and more. As we strengthen our partnership,
we will promote a world in which all nations, large and small, can stand
together as equals to tackle the most pressing challenges of our era and
deliver for our people.  
  
**Upholding the Rules-Based International Order**  
  
President Biden reiterates the sustained and growing commitment of the
United States to its allies and partners in the Indo-Pacific region, as
described in the Indo-Pacific Strategy of the United States. President
Biden and Prime Minister Lee reaffirm their strong support for ASEAN
Centrality and the ASEAN-centered regional architecture. Prime Minister
Lee welcomes President Biden’s invitation to ASEAN leaders for a
historic ASEAN-U.S. Special Summit in Washington, D.C. The leaders
highlight the success of the U.S.-Singapore Third Country Training
Program, which has received more than 1700 officials from across ASEAN.
The United States seeks cooperation with all partners who share our
objectives in the Indo-Pacific region, and to that end, we welcome the
Quad’s support for ASEAN Centrality, deeper economic integration,
addressing of regional challenges, and promotion of an open, inclusive,
stable and secure Indo-Pacific region and a rules-based order. We also
welcome the enhanced engagement of European and regional partners in
Southeast Asia and the broader Indo-Pacific region.  
  
The United States and Singapore emphasize our unwavering commitment to
the principles of sovereignty, independence, and territorial integrity,
and condemn Russia’s unprovoked invasion of Ukraine, which clearly
violates international law, including the United Nations Charter. The
United States and Singapore recognize the need to preserve a world in
which borders cannot be changed by force and state-to-state relations
are guided by international law. Given the unprovoked attack on Ukraine,
many countries across the Atlantic and the Pacific, including the United
States and Singapore, have imposed their own financial sanctions and
export controls against Russian entities. The United States and
Singapore will ensure the effective implementation of their respective
measures. The United States and Singapore are deeply concerned about the
deteriorating humanitarian crisis in and around Ukraine, and call on all
parties to allow safe and unfettered passage of civilians, facilitate
unhindered access to humanitarian assistance for those in need in
Ukraine, protect civilians, and respect human rights.  
  
Amid global security challenges, the United States and Singapore
continue to build on our partnership to pursue our shared interests. The
leaders reaffirm a shared commitment to the goal of the complete
denuclearization and the establishment of a permanent peace on the
Korean Peninsula. Both leaders call on the DPRK to engage in serious and
sustained diplomacy and emphasize the importance of full implementation
of relevant United Nations Security Council resolutions. The leaders
underscore the importance of peace and stability in the Indo-Pacific
region and encourage the peaceful resolution of disputes. President
Biden and Prime Minister Lee also reflected on the close
counterterrorism partnership shared by the United States and Singapore,
and Singapore’s support of the United States relocation efforts related
to Afghanistan last year.  
  
In the maritime domain, the United States and Singapore reaffirm the
right of freedom of navigation and overflight and other lawful uses of
the seas accorded by international law, including the 1982 United
Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS). We reaffirm the need
to pursue peaceful resolution of disputes in accordance with
international law, including UNCLOS, which sets out the legal framework
within which all activities in the oceans and seas must be carried out.
We respect states’ ability to conserve, sustainably develop, and
effectively manage their maritime natural resources in accordance with
international law, including UNCLOS. We reaffirm that all concerned
parties must abide by the 2002 Declaration on the Conduct of Parties in
the South China Sea, and reiterate our support for ASEAN-led efforts to
develop an effective and substantive Code of Conduct for the South China
Sea that upholds the legitimate rights and interests of all parties and
is consistent with UNCLOS. We also affirm the importance of acting
consistently with the relevant Standards and Recommended Practices of
the International Civil Aviation Organization, and the relevant
instruments and conventions of the International Maritime
Organization.  
  
The United States and Singapore share deep concerns about the situation
in Myanmar and the challenges it poses to regional stability. We
continue to call for an end to violence against civilians in Myanmar,
the release of all political detainees, including State Counsellor Aung
San Suu Kyi, President Win Myint and foreign detainees; unhindered
humanitarian access; and for Myanmar to return to its path of democratic
transition. We appreciate the constructive role played by Singapore and
ASEAN in facilitating a peaceful solution in the interest of the people
of Myanmar, and we call for the Myanmar military regime to urgently
implement the ASEAN Five Point Consensus. We are concerned the crisis
has reversed years of economic progress in Myanmar and increased the
risk of illicit finance.  
  
**Driving Inclusive Prosperity and Addressing Emerging Challenges**  
  
President Biden and Prime Minister Lee underscore their shared
commitment to promoting broad-based economic growth in the United
States, in Singapore, and throughout the region. They reaffirm the close
collaboration between the United States and Singapore on developing an
Indo-Pacific economic framework with regional partners that will expand
cooperation on trade, supply chains, clean energy, decarbonization,
infrastructure, tax, and anti-corruption. They welcome Thailand’s
leadership as host of Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) in 2022,
and look forward to the United States hosting APEC in 2023. The leaders
reviewed ongoing efforts to facilitate regional trade and increase
supply chain resilience and looked forward to the implementation of the
U.S.-ASEAN Economic Futures initiative.  
  
The leaders also look forward to expanding economic cooperation under
the U.S.-Singapore Partnership for Growth and Innovation (PGI), which
aims to secure inclusive growth for our economies and regions in new and
forward-looking areas: digital economy, energy and environmental
technology, advanced manufacturing, and health services. New initiatives
announced under the PGI include the development of interoperable ethical
Artificial Intelligence governance frameworks, and plans for a U.S.
business development mission to Singapore to facilitate new business
opportunities and strengthen partnerships in advanced manufacturing.  
  
President Biden and Prime Minister Lee commit to deepening cooperation
between the United States and Singapore on high quality infrastructure
development in the region. To that end, the United States and Singapore
renewed and expanded the MOU to deepen cooperation on infrastructure
development to cover new collaborations in green and sustainable
infrastructure projects in the region that address social and economic
needs and promote inclusive, private sector-led growth.  
  
The climate crisis poses an existential threat to the world. Recognizing
the need to enhance ambition in this decisive decade, the United States
has put forward an ambitious target to achieve a 50-52 percent reduction
from 2005 levels in economy-wide net greenhouse gas pollution in 2030
and to reach net-zero greenhouse gas emissions by no later than 2050,
and Singapore has announced it will raise its climate ambition to
achieve net-zero emissions by or around mid-century, and will be making
a formal revision to both its Nationally Determined Contribution and
Long-Term Low-Emissions Development Strategy (LEDS) later this year
after consulting closely with key stakeholders. We commit to
strengthening the U.S.-Singapore Climate Partnership, and we look
forward to working with other countries to implement the Paris
Agreement. President Biden and Prime Minister Lee recognize that
decarbonizing the shipping sector is essential to transitioning to a
clean energy economy and they commit to working together to advance
green shipping, including by establishing alternative bunkering
infrastructure for the provision of low- and zero-carbon fuels at our
ports.  
  
The United States and Singapore highlight their shared commitment to
bolstering global health security and building back better from the
COVID-19 pandemic, and preparing for further pandemics and other shocks
to health systems. We must work with allies and partners to strengthen
and finance vaccine readiness and accelerate efforts to control COVID-19
globally, for example by working with global health organizations such
as the World Health Organization, GAVI, the Vaccine Alliance, and the
Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations.

The United States and Singapore affirm the importance of ensuring that
critical and emerging technologies foster an open, accessible, and
secure technology ecosystem, based on mutual trust, confidence, and
respect for a rules-based international order. To this end, we commit to
increasing resiliency in our technology supply chains, and developing
robust approaches to data governance and security, seeking consistency
and interoperability where feasible. We also plan to explore R&D and
other collaborations, including through the PGI, in order to progress
towards affordable, resilient, secure and interoperable advanced
high-speed wireless communications (“NextG”) in the Indo-Pacific
region.  
  
The United States and Singapore maintain a strong and growing
partnership on cybersecurity. We seek global adherence to the UN
framework of responsible state behavior in cyberspace and pledge to
deepen our cooperation on combating cyber threats, promoting resilience,
and securing our critical infrastructure, amongst other issues. We
welcome the establishment of the United States-Singapore Cyber Dialogue
to cement our cross institutional linkages to jointly tackle
cybersecurity issues. We will continue to jointly lead critical efforts
in the International Counter Ransomware Initiative to tackle the surge
in ransomware attacks worldwide.  
  
The United States and Singapore believe in the importance of creating a
safe, stable, secure, and sustainable space environment that facilitates
space exploration, science, and commercial activities that benefit all
of humanity. President Biden welcomes Singapore’s commitment to the
Artemis Accords. President Biden and Prime Minister Lee also welcome the
convening of a United States-Singapore Space Dialogue.  
  
Today’s challenges all demand closer cooperation between us. For many
decades the United States and Singapore have worked together to overcome
the challenges of the day, and we will continue to do so, with
determination and resolve. Together, we are deepening our strategic
partnership to seize opportunities and address emerging threats. We are
defending and strengthening the rules-based international order that has
long supported global security and prosperity, and will continue to do
so long into the future.

\###
