---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2022-03-11'
modified_time: 2022-03-11 08:23:08-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/03/11/joint-statement-on-u-s-uk-consultations-on-the-indo-pacific/
published_time: 2022-03-11 09:00:00-05:00
title: "Joint Statement on U.S.-UK Consultations on the\_Indo-Pacific"
---
 
On 7-8 March, the United Kingdom and United States held high-level
consultations on the Indo-Pacific. The U.S. delegation was led by
Indo-Pacific Coordinator Kurt Campbell and included representatives from
the Department of State, Department of Defense, and National Security
Council. The UK delegation was led by Deputy National Security Advisor
David Quarrey and included representatives from across Her Majesty’s
Government. Officials from both governments resolved to broaden and
deepen their alignment and cooperation on and in the region. They
welcomed growing coordination among allies and partners across the
Atlantic and the Pacific. In particular, they noted unprecedented
commitments from Indo-Pacific countries—including Japan, Australia, the
Republic of Korea, New Zealand, and Singapore—to support Ukraine and to
impose costs on Russia for its brutal and unprovoked attack. They also
noted that these steps come at a time when the U.S., UK and European
partners are enhancing their engagement with the Indo-Pacific and
preparing to meet the challenge of systemic competition with China.

U.S. and UK officials committed to coordinate implementation of the U.S.
Indo-Pacific Strategy and the UK’s Indo-Pacific tilt, as set out in its
Integrated Review. They noted progress made on AUKUS and reaffirmed
their commitment at the highest level to ensuring the delivery of
conventionally-armed nuclear-powered submarines and other advanced
capabilities to promote security and stability in the region. They
agreed to pursue positive economic engagement in the Indo-Pacific,
including through supporting just green transitions as part of the Clean
Green Initiative and Build Back Better World agendas; to collaborate on
critical and emerging technologies; to ensure economic security; and to
oppose economic coercion. They reaffirmed the importance of the
maintenance of peace and stability across the Taiwan Strait. They also
discussed Hong Kong. In the coming months, the U.S. and the UK will work
together to invest in partnerships with the Pacific Islands; to support
the centrality of ASEAN and to advance concrete cooperation with ASEAN
and its member states; and to enhance ties with India.     

To reinforce their commitment and sustain it in the long term, the
United States and the United Kingdom agreed to inaugurate a continuing
dialogue on the Indo-Pacific. The dialogue will be led in the U.S.
Government by the National Security Council and the Department of State
and in Her Majesty’s Government by the National Security Secretariat and
the Foreign, Commonwealth, and Development Office.

\###
