---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2022-03-15'
modified_time: 2022-03-15 17:51:44-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/03/15/what-they-are-saying-state-local-and-tribal-leaders-celebrate-the-first-anniversary-of-the-american-rescue-plan/
published_time: 2022-03-15 17:51:43-04:00
title: "WHAT THEY ARE SAYING: State, Local, and Tribal Leaders Celebrate the First\
  \ Anniversary of the American Rescue\_Plan"
---
 
Last Friday marked one year since President Biden signed the American
Rescue Plan into law. This historic legislation drove our economic
recovery, helped students safely return to their classrooms, and allowed
Americans to get back to work. Moody’s estimates that 4 million of the
7.4 million jobs created in the first year of the Biden-Harris
Administration would not exist without the American Rescue Plan.
Notably, since January 2021, we have created 467,000 jobs at the state
and local levels and education jobs experienced the best growth on
record.

State, local, and tribal leaders applauded the legislation today.

*See below for what they’re saying:*

***Governors***

**Alabama Governor Kay Ivey:** “With the support of the Alabama
Legislature, I’m proud to award $10 million of the State Fiscal Recovery
Fund from the American Rescue Plan Act to establish COVID recovery
grants for volunteer fire departments. \#alpolitics”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/GovernorKayIvey/status/1500865770330464257),
3/7/22\]

**Connecticut Governor Ned Lamont**: “Nearly one year after the American
Rescue Plan passed, its positive impact is still felt in CT. Thank you
to @POTUS and our congressional delegation for providing the resources
to keep kids safely in school while uplifting workers and businesses
during the darkest days of Covid.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/GovNedLamont/status/1501339792122040322),
3/8/22\]

**Nevada Governor Sisolak**: “One year ago, with the support of
@SenCortezMasto, @SenJackyRosen, @repdinatitus, @RepHorsford and
@RepSusieLee the \#AmericanRescuePlan became law. These funds supported
the COVID response & we’re laser focused on investing in critical issues
for Nevadans, like housing.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/GovSisolak/status/1502382779597680640),
3/11/22\]

**New Mexico Governor Michelle Lujan Grisham**: “A year ago today @POTUS
enacted the \#AmericanRescuePlan, delivering billions to support New
Mexico. ARPA has made possible innovative investments in programs that
reduce costs and build a stronger foundation for New Mexico families,
including a historic expansion of child care… We enacted the single
largest eligibility expansion in the history of New Mexico’s child care
assistance program, supporting tens of thousands more families. And we
delivered $157 million to over 1,000 childcare businesses across the
state, supporting providers & increasing pay.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/GovMLG/status/1502355239344930817?cxt=HHwWgoDQ-auIuNkpAAAA),
3/11/22\]

**Pennsylvania Governor Tom Wolf**: “One year ago, the American Rescue
Plan became law — sending Pennsylvania $13.72 billion to help us recover
from the pandemic. Thank you to @POTUS and the federal lawmakers who
made this plan happen. This support has been critical to our recovery…
\[[Tweet
thread](https://twitter.com/GovernorTomWolf/status/1502268357520859136),
3/11/22\]

**Vermont Governor Phil Scott**: “Last year, using American Rescue Plan
and state funds, we invested almost $100M for housing. With much more
underway, we’ve already: • Added 800 homes • Are building 800 more •
Helped over 1,300 families transition out of homelessness … This is
important, but it’s not been enough to help Vermonters find affordable
housing. The good news is, we have 100s of millions in ARPA funds to
continue this progress. We have to act now and need legislative support
to pass this year’s $145M proposed housing investment.2/2”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/GovPhilScott/status/1502037050874343432),
3/11/22\]

***Mayors***

**Albany Mayor Kathy Sheehan**: “Today is the one-year anniversary of
the \#AmericanRescuePlan. The relief money Albany received is not only
helping us recover from the pandemic, but giving us the opportunity to
further invest in our city so we can continue to be an \#AlbanyForAll.”
/
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/MayorSheehan/status/1502261883163844618),
3/11/22\]

**Albuquerque** **Mayor Tim Keller:** “…\[ARPA\] was a
game-changer…especially \[for\] Albuquerque, because we could use it
right away, and we could use it in the way we thought was best for our
city… It remains to me the most helpful federal incentive or action that
I’ve ever dealt with as a mayor.”
\[[Statement](https://www.usmayors.org/2022/03/09/one-year-after-american-rescue-plan-mayors-offer-testimonials-about-importance-of-direct-local-relief-dollars/),
3/9/22\]

**Akron Mayor Dan Horrigan**: “The ARPA funds are already making a big
impact here in Akron. We recently announced over $1.3 million in grants
to 11 local organizations working to prevent violence from occurring,
stop the progression of violence, and rehabilitate individuals with a
history of violent behavior. I believe it is our duty and responsibility
to support organizations that are offering evidence-based programming to
create a safer community, and the American Rescue Plan funding gives us
the opportunity to do just that.”
\[[Tweet](https://ohiomayorsalliance.org/clips/one-year-of-arpa-what-ohios-mayors-are-saying/),
3/10/22\]

**Augusta** **Mayor Hardie Davis Jr.:** “We know best how to distribute
those dollars, how to meet the needs of people on the ground. And that
was the key element that made these dollars so instrumental in coming to
us at the time that they did. In Augusta, we used them for a number of
things. Some challenges that we had, particularly in terms of law
enforcement, being able to keep people – from a public safety and law
enforcement perspective – on the ground.”
\[[Statement](https://www.usmayors.org/2022/03/09/one-year-after-american-rescue-plan-mayors-offer-testimonials-about-importance-of-direct-local-relief-dollars/),
3/9/22\]

**Austin Mayor Steve Adler:** “This week is the 1 year anniversary of
the historic American Rescue Plan! States and cities received $350B for
investments in workforce development, health care, and more. Here’s one
story detailing how \#ATXCouncil dedicated $100M to combat
homelessness.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/MayorAdler/status/1501640550818226177),
3/9/22\]

**Baton Rouge Mayor Sharon Weston Broome:** “American Rescue Plan is
working for Baton Rouge! Thank you President Biden (@potus) for your
leadership on this important investment! @WhiteHouse • $40M+ Drainage
Improvements • $14M Community Violence Intervention • $2M Economic
Development & Tourism • $2M Blight Elimination”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/MayorBroome/status/1501548606871977988),
3/9/22\]  

**Boca Raton Mayor Scott Singer:** “\[ARPA funds were\] a game-changer
for so many communities like ours. Our city is poised to receive about
$12 million, which we’re going to redeploy in improved infrastructure,
community policing, and other public safety efforts and creative
initiatives for businesses.”
\[[Statement](https://www.usmayors.org/2022/03/09/one-year-after-american-rescue-plan-mayors-offer-testimonials-about-importance-of-direct-local-relief-dollars/),
3/9/22\]

**Boise Mayor Laura McLean**: “Through a combination of regulatory
changes and funds from the \#AmericanRescuePlan, we made it easier for
childcare facilities to operate. By allowing for temporary licensing,
paying application fees & assisting with safety classes we removed
barriers for childcare services.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/boisemayor/status/1502041343706603524),
3/11/22\]

**Brownsville Mayor Trey Mendez:** “Throughout the country, the American
Rescue Plan has enabled dozens of other local officials to tailor
investments where we need it most….”
\[[Op-Ed](https://www.route-fifty.com/infrastructure/2022/03/arpa-broadband-digital-divide/362954/),
3/1o/22\]

**Burnsville** **Mayor Elizabeth Kautz:** “Now for ARPA funds, because
we only got about $8 million in my city, and so what we used the first
$6 million is for cost recovery for lost revenue… I have a power plant
\[and natural gas plant\] in my city, so we have some very critical
assets. We need to make sure that we have those assets still running,
because all of us, all of us, need electric power.”
\[[Statement](https://www.usmayors.org/2022/03/09/one-year-after-american-rescue-plan-mayors-offer-testimonials-about-importance-of-direct-local-relief-dollars/),
3/9/22\]

**Cleveland Mayor Justin Bibb:** “We received over $511 million dollars
from President Biden through the American Rescue Plan… and I’m using
that capital to do a couple things: number one, we’ve already authorized
over $20 million to eradicate the digital divide, we’ve raised already
over $100 million to eradicate the lead paint crisis…\[and\] I intend to
launch an Office of Economic Recovery working with public and private
partners from all across our community to make sure we can leverage this
capital to truly create the right recovery that can be an inclusive
economic comeback for our city in the future.”
\[[Statement](https://www.usmayors.org/2022/03/09/one-year-after-american-rescue-plan-mayors-offer-testimonials-about-importance-of-direct-local-relief-dollars/),
3/9/22\]

**Columbus Mayor Andrew Ginther:** “ICYMI: On Monday, the city and
county announced $8M from the American Rescue Plan for small businesses
in underserved communities led by minority, women and veteran
entrepreneurs… These funds would not have been possible without the
American Rescue Plan, which tomorrow celebrates its one-year
anniversary. \#ARPA @usmayors \#Columbus \#community”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/MayorGinther/status/1502043168119959564),
3/10/22\]

**Dayton Mayor Jeffrey J. Mims, Jr:** A year ago today, @POTUS signed
the \#AmericanRescuePlan into law. In Dayton, we are using our $138M in
funds to remove blight, improve neighborhood amenities, construct a new
Fire-Police station, aide small and minority-owned businesses, and
catalyze economic recovery. @usmayors
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/MayorMims/status/1502375473023569921),
3/11/22\]

**Denver Mayor Michael Hancock:** “So, ARPA helped us to begin to
restore those critical services and bring back our employees — everyone
was furloughed for the most part, except for our uniforms…Then, we began
to restore and invest in our businesses, in our community-based
organizations so that they could also be responsive to our community.
And we really heavily invested in housing and shelter, particularly for
our most vulnerable — our homeless.”
\[[Statement](https://www.usmayors.org/2022/03/09/one-year-after-american-rescue-plan-mayors-offer-testimonials-about-importance-of-direct-local-relief-dollars/),
3/9/22\]

**Des Moines** **Mayor Frank Cownie:** “A lot of these people started
working virtually. Well, what does that do to all those businesses you
know whether they’re restaurants or retail or whatever that people are
starting to not frequent? And so they started laying people off, and in
some cases shutting down because their workers became ill with the
pandemic and COVID. And so there were lots of people that needed a lot
of help. And you know they were having to try to keep a roof over their
heads, make rental payments, make house payments, put food on the
table.”
\[[Statement](https://www.usmayors.org/2022/03/09/one-year-after-american-rescue-plan-mayors-offer-testimonials-about-importance-of-direct-local-relief-dollars/),
3/9/22\]

**Dubuque Mayor Brad Cavanaugh:** “On the 1 year anniversary of its’
enactment, Mayor Cavanagh recognizes the impact \#AmericanRescuePlan
funds have had on Dubuque and will continue to have through funding
future priorities. Learn more about the importance and allocation of
funds.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/CityOfDubuque/status/1502341878234193926),
3/11/22\]

**Edina** **Mayor Jim Hovland:** “We thought we had great broadband
coverage in our community, but we found out there were blind spots, bad
spots for kids, so we dedicated $500,000 of that 2.4 million… \[so\]
that they’d have the kind of access to the internet we wanted them to
have… In the aftermath of the killing of George Floyd, we set up… the
use of a social worker to help on some police calls where officers were
being asked to cover mental health challenges… We committed about
$400,000 of that \[ARPA\] money to enhancing that operation within our
police department and also assisting our school district and our
community with some outside mental health services, either for kids or
families that need some assistance.”
\[[Statement](https://www.usmayors.org/2022/03/09/one-year-after-american-rescue-plan-mayors-offer-testimonials-about-importance-of-direct-local-relief-dollars/),
3/9/22\]

**Finley** **Mayor Christina Muryn**: “With the American Rescue Plan
dollars, we are being able to provide some grant opportunities to
support our nonprofits in a variety of ways, certainly focusing on basic
needs: food, housing, education, getting folks back to work, and
childcare… \[including\] things like Cancer Patient Services, an
organization that helps individuals who are struggling with medical
bills while going through cancer treatment, or Hope House, which helps
individuals that have been displaced or are seeking refuge from domestic
violence.”
\[[Statement](https://www.usmayors.org/2022/03/09/one-year-after-american-rescue-plan-mayors-offer-testimonials-about-importance-of-direct-local-relief-dollars/),
3/9/22\]

**Fremont** **Mayor Lily Mei**: “Having that ability to leverage and
utilize ARPA to balance our budget allowed us to then focus some of
those funds, along with the combination of county and state, to help
with rental assistance. As of January to date, we have used almost $11
million of our $16 million to help provide rental assistance for over
770 families.”
\[[Statement](https://www.usmayors.org/2022/03/09/one-year-after-american-rescue-plan-mayors-offer-testimonials-about-importance-of-direct-local-relief-dollars/),
3/9/22\]

**Fresno Mayor Jerry Dyer**: “I was asked by the White House and
Treasury Sec. Janet Yellen to participate in a news conference with
local leaders from around the nation about the American Rescue Plan… I
joined the news conference to demonstrate the importance of these
dollars in our community that will enhance our public safety efforts,
address our homeless population, and invest in underserved
neighborhoods. I also talked about the impact on our business community
and the much-needed relief provided to our struggling small businesses,
especially restaurants.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/MayorJerryDyer/status/1501657438553968642),
3/9/22\]

**Grand Rapids Mayor Rosalynn Bliss, Chair Urban Core Mayors**:
“Michigan’s urban core cities were at the heart of the state’s pandemic
response… One year ago, the American Rescue Plan Act gave us hope that
there was light at the end of the tunnel. This federal stimulus is
allowing our cities to emerge from the pandemic on a stronger footing by
using these funds to help build up our small businesses and refill out
downtowns. We are also able to strategically invest in core issues like
housing and infrastructure so that our children can see the benefit of
these funds long into the future.” \[Statement, 3/11/22\]

**Grove City Mayor Richard L. “Ike” Stage**: “The ARPA stimulus has been
a tremendous help for our community The funds were vital to the repair
and update of our aging stormwater sewer infrastructure in our older
neighborhoods.”
\[[Tweet](https://ohiomayorsalliance.org/clips/one-year-of-arpa-what-ohios-mayors-are-saying/),
3/10/22\]

**Hallandale Beach** **Mayor Joy Cooper**: “Once we did all those
calculations, we saw that within two-to-three years, the rate we were
going, facing COVID closing businesses, all the other stresses and
having to keep employees well and keep them paid, we were facing
bankruptcy. So without the support of the federal government — which all
our residents are very grateful for — as a smaller city, we really were
facing really dire times, so we have really applied every, every penny
of ARPA to make sure that we can balance our budget.”
\[[Statement](https://www.usmayors.org/2022/03/09/one-year-after-american-rescue-plan-mayors-offer-testimonials-about-importance-of-direct-local-relief-dollars/),
3/9/22\]

**Houston Mayor Sylvester Turner:** “We stood to lose or lay off nearly
2,000 employees if it were not for CARES funding and then the ARPA
funding. It was just that bad. It would have forced us to lay off
municipal workers… It was the ARPA funding that was primarily used to
plug that $200 million shortfall… Do you want to lose police officers?
The answer is ‘no.’ Do you want to lose firefighters? The answer is
‘no’.’ Do you need your solid waste workers, the people who pick up the
trash every week? The answer is ‘absolutely’… You take away the people,
you take away the services.”
\[[Statement](https://www.usmayors.org/2022/03/09/one-year-after-american-rescue-plan-mayors-offer-testimonials-about-importance-of-direct-local-relief-dollars/),
3/9/22\]

**Huntington Mayor Steve Williams:** “We put together an extremely
aggressive \[economic revitalization\] plan… I just knew what we had to
do in order to transform our community. It had to be something that was
bigger than what any small town would imagine doing. But the only way
you’re going to do that within a shortened time frame is it has to be
big. Go big or don’t go… The big worry that I had was ‘how in God’s name
am I going to pay for this.”… And then the Rescue Plan came.”
\[[Statement](https://www.usmayors.org/2022/03/09/one-year-after-american-rescue-plan-mayors-offer-testimonials-about-importance-of-direct-local-relief-dollars/),
3/9/22\]

**Irvine Mayor Farrah N. Khan**: “With a commitment from @POTUS for
mental health support & a visit by @SecBecerra discussing programs &
services in Irvine, we’re ready for more direct funding to help our
community thrive. \#Irvine \#ARPA”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/MayorofIrvine/status/1501649811996434432),
3/9/22\]

**Issaquah Mayor Mary Lou Pauly**: “Today is the one-year anniversary of
the passage of the \#AmericanRescuePlan. The resources @cityofIssaquah
received were a lifeline during the pandemic, giving us additional
options to address the immediate needs of our community while paving the
way for an inclusive recovery.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/MayorMaryLou/status/1502338207542702081),
3/11/22\]

**Kansas City Mayor Quinton Lucas:** “…There is an organization in
Kansas City called the KC Care Clinic. Their primary work…is working
with people who are living with HIV and AIDS. And, early in the
pandemic, of course, immunocompromised folks are an area of concern. Our
ability to support KC Care through our federal funds has been a
lifesaver for a lot of these folks, who, as I noted, weren’t going to
the doctor for a while, didn’t know what part of society they could
engage with, making sure they had access and consistent treatment
throughout this crisis.”
\[[Statement](https://www.usmayors.org/2022/03/09/one-year-after-american-rescue-plan-mayors-offer-testimonials-about-importance-of-direct-local-relief-dollars/),
3/9/22\]

**Lancaster Mayor David Scheffler:** “The timing of these funds was
important as we were able to quickly invest in a major water
infrastructure project that was key to finalizing a significant economic
development project for the region. These infrastructure investments can
be very costly for cities but are vital to the lon-term success of our
communities.”
\[[Statement](https://ohiomayorsalliance.org/clips/one-year-of-arpa-what-ohios-mayors-are-saying/),
3/11/22\]

**Lakewood Mayor Meghan George**: “The City of Lakewood received $47
million from the American Rescue Plan Act. More than half of those
dollars will be spent on necessary improvements to our century old
water/sewer infrastructure. This allows for rate reductions for every
resident and business owner in our city. Additionally, we have allocated
roughly $1.6 million towards homelessness prevention. We continue to
explore other uses for these dollars that will make the most impact for
our community.”
\[[Tweet](https://ohiomayorsalliance.org/clips/one-year-of-arpa-what-ohios-mayors-are-saying/),
3/10/22\]

**Lincoln** **Mayor Leirion Gaylor Baird**: “We used our American Rescue
Plan funds, first and foremost, to help stabilize small businesses in
Lincoln. We’ve allocated over $7 million in grants to small businesses…
provide up to six months of rent and mortgage payments… And through our
exit interviews with recipients of these funds, we’ve heard that this is
what helped keep them in business. This is what’s helping keep people
employed who work in their companies. We’ve helped over 250 small
businesses and micro businesses with those dollars from the American
Rescue Plan. It really has been a lifeline for them.”
\[[Statement](https://www.usmayors.org/2022/03/09/one-year-after-american-rescue-plan-mayors-offer-testimonials-about-importance-of-direct-local-relief-dollars/),
3/9/22\]

**Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti**: “On this day, a year ago, Congress
passed the American Rescue Plan — a turning point for the country, and
today Los Angeles is stronger for it. An extraordinary crisis demands an
extraordinary response, Los Angeles could not have asked for a better
partner than @POTUS.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/MayorOfLA/status/1501610051609378818),
3/9/22\] 

**Louisville** **Mayor Greg Fischer:** “First and foremost, the ARPA
funds were used to make sure that we could mitigate the impact of the
pandemic as much as we possibly could. It literally was a lifesaver for
our community. And then when you go beyond that to the type of economic
uplift that ARPA has provided, and will provide even further, it allowed
us to address challenges in our community that we’ve always dreamed of
addressing, but we never had the resources to address. So it gives us
the double impact of economic lift, and then also taking on big
challenges for generational change in Louisville.”
\[[Statement](https://www.usmayors.org/2022/03/09/one-year-after-american-rescue-plan-mayors-offer-testimonials-about-importance-of-direct-local-relief-dollars/),
3/9/22\]

**Madison Mayor Satya Rhodes-Conway:** “Today is the one-year
anniversary of the \#AmericanRescuePlan becoming law! Communities like
Madison have used these essential investments to address community
needs. @leagueofcities’ tracker shows how local recovery funds are being
used: ow.ly/q9Va50Ihu22”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/MayorOfMadison/status/1502382720135147529),
3/11/22\]

**Memphis Mayor Jim Strickland**: “Honored to have Deputy Secretary of
the Treasury @wallyadeyemo visit @memlawschool and thank him in person
for his help with the American Rescue Plan, which helped us help over
14,000 families with rental and utility assistance during the pandemic.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/MayorMemphis/status/1501346771112505344),
3/9/22\]

**Miami Mayor Francis Suarez, President of the U.S. Conference of
Mayors:** “Mayors of all political persuasions recognized that for
America to have a strong recovery, a strong federal investment in
America’s cities would be required… Republicans, Democrats, and
Independents alike called on Washington to act, and mayors are grateful
that our colleagues at the federal level heard our call and passed the
American Rescue Plan Act one year ago today. Since this legislation was
signed into law, mayors have been hard at work making sure these funds
are used responsibly… Mayors look forward to continuing to responsibly
implement these funds, and we thank lawmakers for working closely with
mayors and making local funding a priority.”
\[[Statement](https://www.usmayors.org/2022/03/11/statement-by-the-u-s-conference-of-mayors-on-one-year-anniversary-of-american-rescue-plan-act/),
3/11/22\]

**Newark Mayor Ras J. Baraka: “**Thanks to @POTUS’ \#AmericanRescuePlan,
Newark has made continued investments in affordable housing, housing the
homeless, violence reduction, guaranteed income, rental assistance, aid
for small businesses and combating food insecurity, all while fighting
against COVID. @usmayors”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/CityofNewarkNJ/status/1501696745461407754),
3/9/22\]

**New Orleans Mayor LaToya Cantrell**: “Today is the one-year
anniversary of the passage of the \#AmericanRescuePlan The relief money
New Orleans received was a lifeline during the pandemic, giving us the
resources to address the immediate needs that we faced & the opportunity
to continue to invest in our city🎉💛”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/mayorcantrell/status/1502335065099014153),
3/11/22\]

**Oakland Mayor Libby Schaaf**: “Today I joined fellow mayors to
commemorate the 1 year anniversary of the \#AmericanRescuePlan – TY
@SpeakerPelosi, @POTUS + @VP. The \#ARP was a lifeline to our cities +
residents, and it helped us withstand the pandemic’s devastating fiscal
impacts”
\[[Twitter](https://twitter.com/LibbySchaaf/status/1501974843956219914),
3/10/22\]

**Tampa Mayor Jane Castor**: “For the past year, the
\#AmericanRescuePlan has allowed the @CityofTampa to maintain
services/programs without cuts or millage increases by filling revenue
shortfalls of over $30 million! This critical funding has allowed us to
make needed investments in affordable housing, (1/2)…public safety,
sidewalks and resurfacing, and neighborhood parks – all of which will
have a positive impact for years ahead. Today on \#ARPA’s first
anniversary, I thank everyone involved in making it happen for our
community, including @POTUS, @USRepKCastor, & @usmayors! (2/2)”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/JaneCastor/status/1502369056661327877),
3/11/22\]

**Oklahoma City Mayor David Holt of Oklahoma City:** “In Oklahoma City,
we’re getting about $120 million dollars through ARPA. We’ve already
utilized it for some direct pandemic response. We worked with our
City-County Health Department to build a drive-through vaccination and
testing facility. . . We’ve also used it to continue our sewage
surveillance program. But, we’re also and probably predominantly going
to use it for economic recovery…We still have communities that haven’t
fully recovered — certainly in minority communities and small business
communities — so we’re focused there with our ARPA dollars.”
\[[Statement](https://www.usmayors.org/2022/03/09/one-year-after-american-rescue-plan-mayors-offer-testimonials-about-importance-of-direct-local-relief-dollars/),
3/9/22\]

**Orlando Mayor Buddy Dyer**: “One year ago this week the American
Rescue Plan Act was passed. Like my fellow @usmayors, I’m grateful for
funding which has allowed @citybeautiful to launch initiatives like our
RISE program that will connect residents to career opportunities.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/orlandomayor/status/1501914267884347396),
3/10/22\]

**Philadelphia Mayor Jim Kenney**: “This week, we’re marking the 1-year
anniversary of the passage of the \#AmericanRescuePlan. The ARP funds
Philadelphia received were a lifeline during the pandemic, giving us
resources to address our immediate needs and the opportunity to continue
to invest in our city.”
\[[Twitter](https://twitter.com/PhillyMayor/status/1501650122039562249),
3/9/22\]

**Phoenix Mayor Kate Gallego**: “As we approach the 1-year anniversary
of the \#AmericanRescuePlan becoming law, I want to highlight how
Phoenix has become stronger and more resilient because of this
transformative legislation. The \#AmericanRescuePlan assisted our city
in expanding our existing Better Health Outcomes and Community Testing &
Vaccines program, to continue providing access to tests and vaccinations
through our Mobile Testing & Vaccination Units.”
\[[Thread](https://twitter.com/MayorGallego/status/1501654088559120394),
3/9/22\]

**Providence Mayor Jorge Elorza**: “The American Rescue Plan is helping
our city rebuild after the economic devastation of the pandemic. On the
one-year anniversary of the enactment of ARPA, I want to celebrate the
progress we’ve made with the help of these relief funds, addressing some
of our most pressing issues… These funds will continue to impact our
city – from our tourism industry to enhanced programming and job
opportunities for youth, and so much more. You can learn more and engage
with the ARPA process in Providence by visiting pvdrescueplan.com.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/Jorge_Elorza/status/1502041912622071815),
3/11/22\]

**Richmond Mayor Levar Stoney**: “When @POTUS signed the
\#AmericanRescuePlan into law a year ago today, we were given a historic
opportunity to create tangible change… Read more about how we can be
innovative in the ways we use federal funding in my recent op-ed at
@GOVERNING.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/LevarStoney/status/1502383244997795855),
3/11/22\]

**San Jose Mayor Sam Liccardo:** “The American Rescue funds helped to
fill holes that would have otherwise forced a layoff of many dedicated
public servants and would have left our residents much, much more
vulnerable. In addition to filling holes, it also helped us to be
creative, to address what we knew would be looming challenges with this
pandemic… We took $20 million dollars of the federal funds and focused
on young adults living in low-income neighborhoods, because we knew that
those are residents who were most dislocated economically because they
work in service industries, working in hotels or restaurants, or
whatever it might be, and they were the ones who were facing the layoffs
and struggling the most to support their families.”
\[[Statement](https://www.usmayors.org/2022/03/09/one-year-after-american-rescue-plan-mayors-offer-testimonials-about-importance-of-direct-local-relief-dollars/),
3/9/22\]

**San Leandro** **Mayor Pauline Cutter:** “I work at a food pantry every
Tuesday and of course the food pantries were really well in demand. And
little by little you have people donating and so forth, but with ARPA
funds, we were able to give $15,000 to each of our ten food pantries…
And without those funds, they never would’ve gotten that big chunk of
money that they needed to make them more efficient, and that was
something that I was really proud of and I know it helped a lot of
people in our city.”
\[[Statement](https://www.usmayors.org/2022/03/09/one-year-after-american-rescue-plan-mayors-offer-testimonials-about-importance-of-direct-local-relief-dollars/),
3/9/22\]

**Scranton Mayor Paige Cognetti:** “.@usmayors & @POTUS know that local
government matters. One year ago tomorrow, @POTUS signed the
\#AmericanRescuePlan into law. It gave money directly to cities so we
could tailor recovery programs to support our residents and businesses –
based on what our communities need most”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/PaigeGCognetti/status/1502082404323844098),
3/11/22\]

**St. Louis Mayor Tishaura O. Jones**: “This week marks the one-year
anniversary of the \#AmericanRescuePlan. As a co-chair of
\#MayorsAgainstIllegalGuns, I am thankful to @POTUS and @RepCori for
working hard to deliver the resources we need to expand community
violence intervention programs. pic.twitter.com/mLVZ2vwRPX”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/saintlouismayor/status/1502297779363794945), 
3/11/22\]

**Tampa Mayor Jane Castor**: “For the past year, the
\#AmericanRescuePlan has allowed the @CityofTampa to maintain
services/programs without cuts or millage increases by filling revenue
shortfalls of over $30 million! This critical funding has allowed us to
make needed investments in affordable housing, (1/2)…public safety,
sidewalks and resurfacing, and neighborhood parks – all of which will
have a positive impact for years ahead. Today on \#ARPA’s first
anniversary, I thank everyone involved in making it happen for our
community, including @POTUS, @USRepKCastor, & @usmayors! (2/2)”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/JaneCastor/status/1502369056661327877),
3/11/22\]

**Toledo Mayor Wade Kapszukiewicz**: “There’s still a debate in Congress
even now about the merits of the American Rescue Plan and whether it was
needed or not needed. But what we know here in Toledo is that because of
ARPA, we are able to dedicate $10 million to Toledo’s lead line
replacement program and replace nearly 3,000 residential lead lines by
the end of 2024. Because of the infusion of resources, we are able to
shave 25 years off the timeline for this project. The value is clear.”
\[[Tweet](https://ohiomayorsalliance.org/clips/one-year-of-arpa-what-ohios-mayors-are-saying/),
3/10/22\]  
  

**West Wendover Mayor Daniel Corona**: “Economic recovery starts at
home. One year since the \#AmericanRescuePlan was signed into law, we’ve
been able to rebuild and recover stronger than before. Visit
@leagueofcities’ tracker to learn how communities are using their local
fiscal recovery funds”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/DanielCoronaNV/status/1502331216028073985),
3/11/22\]

**Youngstown Mayor Tito Brown**: “The COVID-19 pandemic had significant
impacts on cities across Ohio and the investments provided by the
American Rescue Plan will be incredibly important to our economic
recovery. These investments will not only help us rebuild, they will
also prevent potentially catastrophic funding cuts in cities like
Youngstown and others throughout Ohio.”
\[[Tweet](https://ohiomayorsalliance.org/clips/one-year-of-arpa-what-ohios-mayors-are-saying/),
3/10/22\]

***State Legislators***

**Arizona Rep. Alma Hernandez**: “The impact of the \#AmericanRescuePlan
is unmeasurable! It has helped all of us through times of trouble,
lowered costs for working families and set us up to prosper in the
future! I am grateful to @POTUS for being our leader and @SenMarkKelly
fighting for \#AZ Thank you!”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/almaforarizona/status/1502337439066517505),
3/11/22\]

**California Assemblymember Akilah Weber:** “As a proud graduate of
Xavier University of Louisiana, I’m encouraged to know The American
Rescue Plan funding includes over over $2.7 billion for HBCUs, one of
the largest-ever federal investment! @POTUS @VP”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/asmakilahweber/status/1501640847535734785),
3/9/22\] 

**Hawaii Representative Adrian Tam:** “Nearly one year ago, the
\#AmericanRescuePlan was passed when Hawaii faced a major budget crisis.
With @POTUS and our congressional delegation’s help, the Legislature was
able to protect critical services such as HIV prevention and homeless
outreach.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/adrianktam/status/1501630722141933568),
3/9/22\]

**Tennessee Senator Raumesh Akbari: “**One year ago today, @POTUS signed
the \#AmericanRescuePlan and what a difference it’s made! In Tennessee,
the historic Child Tax Credit benefited over 1.3M children, helping
families when they needed it the most. That’s how you
\#BuildABetterAmerica for everyone!”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenAkbari/status/1502329846113972229),
3/11/22\]

**North Dakota House Democratic Leader Joshua Boschee:** “NoDak is
stronger one year out from passing the \#AmericanRescuePlan. More than
$2.2 billion invested in physical & human infrastructure throughout the
state. $94.5M provided to cities & $148M to counties for local solutions
to the challenges they face. Over $400M to education.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/JoshBoschee/status/1501661476586758144),
3/9/22\]

**Ohio House Democratic Caucus:** “This Friday will mark the one-year
anniversary of the American Rescue Plan (ARP) — investment in
communities to fund critical resources to state and local governments
and to aid with the effects the pandemic has had on Ohio.
\#AmericanRescuePlan”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/OHHouseDems/status/1501626443213590528),
3/9/22\]

**Pennsylvania Senate Democrats:** “One year ago today, Congress passed
the American Rescue Plan. Since then, billions of federal dollars have
been spent to help us fully recover from the pandemic. In Pennsylvania,
we used this money to help frontline workers, provide housing assistance
& aid small businesses.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/PaSenateDems/status/1502336050345086977),
3/11/22\]

**Pennsylvania Senator Maria Collett**: “The \#AmericanRescuePlan passed
1 year ago this week. 🎂 In PA, we’ve used \#ARP funds to support
economic recovery for small biz, schools, police + first responders,
local govts + more. I’m particularly proud to have fought for $20M for
the Student Loan Relief for Nurses Program.” 
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenatorCollett/status/1501630393535053830),
3/9/22\]

**Pennsylvania Senate Democratic Leader Jay Costa:** “Happy birthday to
the American Rescue Plan! 🎂 Over the past year, I am so proud of how we
spent that federal money on frontline worker protection, housing
assistance, and small business grants. We still have more than $2B left
– it’s time to spend it on & for Pennsylvanians.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/Senatorcosta/status/1501618997787254784),
3/9/22\] 

**Pennsylvania Senator Tim Kearney:** “Nearly 1 year ago, @POTUS signed
the American Rescue Plan Act into law, giving our country the financial
support needed to see our way through the pandemic. This funding was a
lifeline to local governments and to Pennsylvanias in jeopardy of losing
businesses, homes and more.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenTimKearney/status/1501624680687489038),
3/9/22\]

**South Dakota Senator Reynold Nesiba:** “ARPA has been transformative
for South Dakota. Thank you to @POTUS and @GabrielUy46 for helping us
make unprecedented investments in water, waste water, and storm water
management for state among other things. See the attached lists.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/ReynoldNesiba/status/1501653572697665537),
3/9/22\]

**Washington Representative & National Association of Jewish Legislators
Co-President Tana Senn:** “With \#AmericanRescuePlan funds passed 1 yr
ago, WA distributed over $400 million in stabilization grants to support
\#childcare across our state! We know that childcare is critical for
economic recovery. And the roll out of \#FairStart4Kids and add’l
investments continue! \#waleg”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/TanaSenn/status/1501668323733348353),
3/9/22\]

***County, City, and Local Elected Officials***

**Alaska Municipal League**: “One of the ways Anchorage Borough utilized
\#AmericanRescuePlan funds was to serve the immediate needs of \#local
people who are in need of extra financial assistance other than rental
relief or food through collaborators. See how other \#Alaska cities
helped their communities ⬇️”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/AlaskaMunicipal/status/1502324598905327621),
3/11/22\]

**Burien City Council Member Hugo Garcia**: “On a definite highlight of
today I was able to speak to Latinx Club at Highline High School about
our city ARPA Funding and got their feedback on good investments for our
$10MM American Rescue Plan Act money \#Burien \#YouthCivicEngagement”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/CMHugoGarcia/status/1501398096839790593),
3/8/22\]

**City of Edina, MN**: “Using American Rescue Plan Act funding, the City
of Edina is sponsoring high-speed internet for income-qualified
residents through Comcast’s Internet Essentials program. Residents who
are approved can receive free internet through Dec. 2022.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/EdinaMN/status/1502324333569622018),
3/11/22\]

**City of Lancaster, PA**: “Small businesses are the backbone of our
local economy. Gov. Wolf visited Lancaster last week to advocate for the
use of state American Rescue Plan funds to support small businesses
across PA including in Lancaster. Let’s get this needed relief to our
small businesses owners…” 
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/cityoflancpa/status/1500924575944744960),
3/7/22\]

**City of Newark**: “Thanks to @POTUS’ \#AmericanRescuePlan, Newark has
made continued investments in affordable housing, housing the homeless,
violence reduction, guaranteed income, rental assistance, aid for small
businesses and combating food insecurity, all while fighting against
COVID. @usmayors”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/CityofNewarkNJ/status/1501696745461407754),
3/9/22\]

**Erie County Executive Mark Poloncarz**: “One year ago, @POTUS signed
into law the \#AmericanRescuePlan. Because of that, @ErieCountyNY was
able to create the @ECDOH Office of Health Equity. Led by Director Kelly
Wofford, it will identify health challenges across our county and offer
solutions to solve them. Learn more:”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/markpoloncarz/status/1502391642116050944),
3/11/22\]

**Harris County Community Services Department**: “Today is Day 3 of our
celebration of the American Rescue Plan (ARP) with @WhiteHouse & @POTUS
, highlighting how local governments like us are investing these funds
into our communities! 🏛💸🏘 Read more about Harris County’s plans”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/HarrisCountyCSD/status/1501590082016497664),
3/9/22\]

**Hennepin County:** “It’s \#ARPA’s one-year anniversary! This crucial
funding has helped Hennepin County take care of residents during the
pandemic and further our commitment to reduce disparities and advance
racial equity. See thread for highlights, or view the full list”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/Hennepin/status/1502296951982739463),
3/11/22\]

**Hidalgo County:** “🎉Celebrate the 1st anniversary of the American
Rescue Plan Act by visiting https://bit.ly/3sYCFng to learn more about
the Hidalgo County ARPA Program’s efforts to mitigate the spread of
COVID-19 and address socioeconomic disparities among vulnerable
populations.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/HidalgoCounty/status/1501612681614213120),
3/9/22\]

**Michigan Municipal League and Michigan Association of Counties:**
“While the COVID-19 pandemic caused immense suffering across the state,
the American Rescue Plan Act has also given cause for hope. The $6.5
billion in federal stimulus allocated to Michigan through this landmark
legislation offers our state leaders a once-in-generation opportunity to
strategically invest in our collective future. That’s why we have come
together as business and labor leaders, policy experts and local
officials to present a unified strategy that leverages these funds for a
maximum return on investment.” \[Statement, 3/11/22\]

**North Carolina League of Municipalities:** “The American Rescue Plan
is giving cities and towns a lifeline to recover from the pandemic, and
local governments are making the most of it. Helping working families.
Making transformational investments. Building communities. There are
countless examples around NC.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/NCLeague/status/1501625610401112073),
3/9/22\]

**Texas Association of Counties:** “Today marks the one-year anniversary
of the \#AmericanRescuePlan, which authorized $65.1 billion in direct,
flexible aid to every county nationwide. @NACoTweets’ Untold Stories
campaign highlights how counties are investing their \#ARPA funds.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/TexasCounties/status/1502283992393035777),
3/11/22\]

**Washtenaw County Board of Commissioners**: “It’s been one year since
the @POTUS Biden Administration passed the \#AmericanRescuePlan Act.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/WashtenawBOC/status/1502279679369256966),
3/11/22\]

***Tribal Leaders***

**Oglala Sioux Tribe President Kevin Killer: “**On the one year
anniversary of the American Rescue Plan Act, I can say that the ARPA’s
authorities and resources have been a lifeline for our Tribe, the Oglala
Sioux Tribe. We have been able to use ARPA resources to stave off to
best of our abilities the ravages of the COVID-19 virus on our
vulnerable population and to work to address the severe negative
economic impacts the COVID-19 public health emergency has wrought.  I am
not sure what our Tribe would have done without the ARPA Act during
these difficult times.  We continue to rely on the ARPA resources each
day as we, hopefully, are moving to the other side of this pandemic.”
\[Statement, 3/11/22\]  

**Suquamish Chairman Leonard Forsman: “**This historic investment in
Tribal communities is a long over-due step towards meeting the federal
government’s trust responsibilities to the original peoples of this
land… The funding received through the American Rescue Plant Act means
Suquamish Tribal members can afford to live on their own Reservation, or
to return home. It means families will have access to 21<sup>st</sup>
Century necessities, like broadband internet. And it means our children
can be educated in a facility that is both safe and welcoming… With the
American Rescue Plan Act, the Biden Administration made a substantial
down payment on promises made to Indian Country… The nation’s Tribes
have yet to recovery from centuries of disinvestment and broken promise.
But, a year after this historic commitment to Indian Country, we are
seeing real progress for our Suquamish families.” \[Statement, 3/11/22\]

**Walker River Paiute Tribal Council:** “The Walker River Paiute Tribal
Council recognizes the once in a lifetime opportunity the American
Rescue Plan funds have provided to the Tribe to respond to the
Coronavirus pandemic.  The Tribal Council strategically engaged tribal
and community members to develop a funding needs assessment and Long
Term Community Plan to leverage ARPA funds to respond and recover from
the pandemic and position the Tribe for future success. \[Statement,
3/11/22\]

***Intergovernmental Affairs Organizations***

**African American Mayors Association**: “Help is here, and we will not
stop working for you,” said @POTUS a year ago with the signing of the
\#AmericanRescuePlan. Since then, millions of Americans have been kept
afloat by the \#ARP… One year later and the
[\#AmericanRescuePlan](https://twitter.com/hashtag/AmericanRescuePlan?src=hashtag_click)
rescued our economy and expanded health care access for working
Americans everywhere… ”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/OurMayors/status/1502327958232576005),
3/11/22\]

**Council of State Governments**: “In the year following the signing of
the \#AmericanRescuePlan, CSG worked to help \#states make decisions on
how to spend this influx of funding. Explore these resources, which
include the innovative State ARPA Utilization Database”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/CSGovts/status/1502281940451405825),
3/11/22\]

**National League of Cities:** National League of Cities on Twitter:
“Economic recovery starts at home. One year since the
\#AmericanRescuePlan was signed into law, cities have been able to
rebuild and recover stronger than before. Visit NLC’s tracker to learn
how communities are using their local fiscal recovery funds”
\[[Thread](https://twitter.com/leagueofcities/status/1502295991122202631),
3/11/22\]

**New DEAL Leaders:** “We are thrilled to release a new report, “The
\#AmericaRescuePlan — One Year Later,” in which we highlight some of the
innovative policies made possible by the law. This money is allowing
policymakers to build an equitable future for their communities”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/NewDEALLeaders/status/1501593918294704137),
3/9/22\]

**National Association of Counties**: “NACo President @LarryJohnsonD3:
“For the past two years, \#counties have served on the front lines of
our nation’s response to the pandemic, and the historic American Rescue
Plan recognizes the vast responsibilities county governments fulfill.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/NACoTweets/status/1501590671823671300),
3/9/22\]

**National Conference of State Legislatures: “**Are you a policymaker
and interested in building your state’s \#workforce? \#NCSL has a new
report that helps explore options for states to use \#ARPA funds to
build a strong workforce. \#AmericanRescuePlan”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/NCSLorg/status/1500533678467858432),
3/7/22\]

**National League of Cities:** National League of Cities on Twitter:
“Economic recovery starts at home. One year since the
\#AmericanRescuePlan was signed into law, cities have been able to
rebuild and recover stronger than before. Visit NLC’s tracker to learn
how communities are using their local fiscal recovery funds
\[[Thread](https://twitter.com/leagueofcities/status/1502295991122202631),
3/11/22\]

**U.S. Conference of Mayors:** “Friday marks the one-year anniversary of
the enactment of the American Rescue Plan Act (ARPA). A critical
component of this legislation was direct fiscal relief to state and
local governments, which were devastated by unprecedented need and
budget shortfalls as a result of the pandemic. Marking the anniversary,
mayors from across the country – Republicans and Democrats alike – are
reflecting on how important that lifeline was for their cities and
sharing how these funds are being put to use to strengthen communities
and help drive America’s economic recovery.”
\[[Statement](https://www.usmayors.org/2022/03/09/one-year-after-american-rescue-plan-mayors-offer-testimonials-about-importance-of-direct-local-relief-dollars/),
3/11/22\]
