---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2022-03-08'
modified_time: 2022-03-08 12:14:15-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/03/08/president-biden-announces-key-nominees-4/
published_time: 2022-03-08 13:00:00-05:00
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key\_Nominees"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
the following individuals to serve as key leaders in his administration:

-   Kate Heinzelman, Nominee for General Counsel of the Central
    Intelligence Agency
-   Joseph Goffman, Nominee for Assistant Administrator for the Office
    of Air and Radiation, Environmental Protection Agency
-   Paul Rosen, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Investment Security,
    Office of International Affairs, Department of the Treasury
-   Evelyn Wang, Nominee for Director of the Advanced Research Project
    Agency – Energy, Department of Energy
-   David Applegate, Nominee for Director of the United States
    Geological Survey, Department of Interior

**<u>Kate Heinzelman, Nominee for General Counsel of the Central
Intelligence Agency</u>**

Kate Heinzelman currently serves as Chief Counselor in the Office of the
Attorney General at the U.S. Department of Justice. She was previously a
partner in the Washington, D.C. office of Sidley Austin LLP. During the
Obama-Biden Administration, Heinzelman served as Deputy General Counsel
at the U.S. Department of Health & Human Services, Special Assistant and
Associate Counsel to the President, and Counsel to the Assistant
Attorney General for National Security at the U.S. Department of
Justice. Earlier in her career, Heinzelman was a staff member in the
Office of the Director of National Intelligence and on the Commission on
the Intelligence Capabilities of the United States Regarding Weapons of
Mass Destruction established by President George W. Bush.

Heinzelman served as a law clerk to Supreme Court Chief Justice John G.
Roberts, Jr. and to Judge Merrick B. Garland on the U.S. Court of
Appeals for the D.C. Circuit. She received her law degree from Yale Law
School and her B.A. from Yale University.

**<u>Joseph Goffman, Nominee for Assistant Administrator for the Office
of Air and Radiation, Environmental Protection Agency</u>**

Joseph Goffman has served as the Principal Deputy Assistant
Administrator in EPA’s Office of Air and Radiation (OAR) since January
2021. Prior to that, he was Executive Director of the Environmental and
Energy Law Program at Harvard Law School. In 2017, he served as
Democratic Chief Counsel to the U.S. Senate Committee on Environment and
Public Works (EPW). From 2009 to 2017, Goffman was Associate Assistant
Administrator for Climate and Senior Counsel to the Assistant
Administrator for OAR. There, he played a key role in developing a range
of pollution control rules under the Clean Air Act. During an earlier
stint as an EPW Associate Counsel, he worked extensively on a number of
provisions of the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990, including Title IV,
which pioneered the use of cap and trade to reduce the pollutants
causing acid rain. His career has also included senior legal, policy,
and management positions at the Environmental Defense Fund.

Goffman grew up in Philadelphia, working summers at a box plant as a
member of the United Paperworkers International Union and earning enough
to attend Yale University and graduate with B.A. and J.D. degrees. He
and his wife live in Washington, D.C. and have three grown children.

**<u>Paul Rosen, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Investment
Security, Office of International Affairs, Department of the
Treasury</u>**

Paul Rosen is a partner at the law firm Crowell & Moring LLP, where he
co-chairs the firm’s national security practice and works as a
cybersecurity and government investigations lawyer. Rosen has more than
15 years of experience in national and homeland security, investigations
and law enforcement matters, including a dozen years in public service.
In government, Rosen served in various leadership positions at the U.S.
Department of Homeland Security during the Obama-Biden Administration,
including as Chief of Staff to DHS Secretary Jeh Johnson. Prior to that,
he worked at the Department of Justice in various roles, including as a
federal prosecutor in the Criminal Fraud Section where he investigated
and prosecuted financial crime. For this work, Rosen was recognized by
the Council of Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency (CIGIE)
with the Investigative Award of Excellence. 

Rosen started his legal career as Counsel on the Senate Judiciary
Committee after clerking for United States District Judge Gary Allen
Fees (Ret.) in the Central District of California. Rosen received his
J.D. from the University of Southern California where he graduated Order
of the Coif, and his Bachelor’s Degree, *summa cum laude*, from the
University of Colorado.  

**<u>Evelyn Wang, Nominee for Director of the Advanced Research Project
Agency – Energy, Department of Energy</u>**

Evelyn N. Wang is the Head of the Mechanical Engineering Department at
the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) and the Ford Professor
of Engineering. Her research combines heat and mass transport processes
with nanoengineered materials to create innovative solutions for clean
energy and water. She is a leading researcher in phase-change heat
transfer, which she has applied to thermal management of electronics,
thermal batteries, solar thermal energy conversion, water harvesting,
and desalination devices. She served as Associate Director of the Solid
State Solar Thermal Energy Conversion Center, a Department of Energy,
Energy Frontiers Research Center. She was also a member of the Defense
Science Study Group (DSSG), where she advocated for increased
collaboration between academia and national defense.

Wang grew up in California, received her B.S. degree from the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, earned her S.M. and Ph.D. degrees
from Stanford University, and worked as a postdoctoral researcher at
Bell Laboratories, Alcatel-Lucent. 

**<u>David Applegate, Nominee for Director of the United States
Geological Survey, Department of Interior</u>**

David Applegate is the Associate Director for Natural Hazards at the
U.S. Geological Survey (USGS), and is currently exercising the delegated
authority of the USGS Director. He joined the USGS in 2004 and has
served as Associate Director since 2011 with responsibility for geologic
hazard and coastal and marine programs, as well as hazard response and
planning activities for the USGS. He co-chairs the federal interagency
Science for Disaster Reduction coordination group. Prior to joining the
USGS, Applegate worked for the American Geological Institute, a
non-profit federation of geoscience societies. Applegate previously
served with the U.S. Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources as
the American Geophysical Union’s Congressional Science Fellow and as a
professional staff member.

Applegate is an adjunct full professor at the University of Utah, and is
a fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science and
the Geological Society of America. He has an undergraduate degree in
geology from Yale University and a doctorate in geology from the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Born and raised in Chambersburg,
Pennsylvania, he currently resides in Washington, D.C. with his wife and
two daughters.

\###
