---
category: statements-releases
date: '2022-03-28'
modified_time: 2022-03-28 14:24:59-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/03/28/fact-sheet-the-biden-administrations-historic-investment-in-pandemic-preparedness-and-biodefense-in-the-fy-2023-presidents-budget/
published_time: 2022-03-28 12:00:00-04:00
title: "FACT SHEET: The Biden Administration\u2019s Historic Investment in Pandemic\
  \ Preparedness and Biodefense in the FY 2023 President\u2019s Budget"
---
 
COVID-19 has exacted an unfathomable toll on our nation and the world,
causing millions of deaths and trillions of dollars in economic losses
globally, and highlighting the inter-dependency between our nation’s
health security and that of the world. Throughout the pandemic,
Americans and people around the world have personally experienced the
health, social, and economic impacts caused by infectious diseases. The
COVID-19 response has illuminated both longstanding and newly discovered
limitations in our local, national, and international health systems and
health security capabilities. It has also resulted in an unparalleled,
multisectoral, whole-of-society response, which has galvanized
breakthrough innovation. The Biden-Harris administration has made great
progress in combatting COVID-19 and building better health security to
protect against future pandemics and other health emergencies. However,
much more is needed to prevent future biological catastrophes. In
America and around the world, people want to know: what can we do to
stop future pandemics? We must increase and sustain our investments
across the U.S. Government to better prevent, detect, and respond to
pandemics, and to build a world safe and secure from biological threats.

The FY23 President’s Budget includes a historic $88.2 billion request
for mandatory funding, available over five years, across the Department
of Health and Human Services (HHS), the Office of the Assistant
Secretary for Preparedness and Response (ASPR), the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention (CDC), the National Institutes of Health (NIH),
the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the Department of State, and the
U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) to prepare for future
biological threats in support of objectives within U.S. national and
global biodefense and pandemic preparedness strategies and plans. This
investment will fund transformative improvements in our capabilities to
prevent, detect, and respond to emerging biological catastrophes.  If we
want to create a world free of pandemics and other biological
catastrophes, the time to act is now.  

The Budget will:

-   **Transform our capability to rapidly produce and deliver
    countermeasures against pandemics and other biological threats.**
    The Budget includes $40 billion for the HHS ASPR to invest in
    advanced development and manufacturing of countermeasures for high
    priority threats and viral families, including vaccines,
    therapeutics, diagnostics, and personal protective equipment (PPE).
    This funding would support development of novel technologies,
    including rapidly scalable vaccine production technologies;
    technologies to simplify the administration of vaccines; effective
    and broadly-acting therapeutics; next-generation PPE; rapidly
    scalable, affordable, and effective diagnostics; pathogen-agnostic
    detection technologies; and tools to suppress pathogen transmission
    in the built environment, including ventilation, sterilization, and
    antimicrobial and antiviral surfaces. This funding will also support
    manufacturing capacity to surge countermeasure production in
    response to future biological threats, whether from COVID-19
    variants or another emergent biological threat. These investments
    build towards the ambitious goals of developing effective vaccines
    and therapeutics within 100 days of identifying a biological threat,
    producing sufficient quantities to vaccinate the United States
    population within 130 days, and supporting surge production to
    rapidly meet global needs.

<!-- -->

-   **Strengthen our public health infrastructure and early warning
    capabilities.** The Budget provides $28 billion for the CDC to
    enhance public health system infrastructure, domestic and global
    threat surveillance, public health workforce development, public
    health laboratory capacity, and global health security. These
    efforts will ensure the nation is prepared to effectively contain
    and mitigate future biological threats and will enable States,
    localities, tribal nations, and Territories to mount a rapid and
    robust response to future outbreaks. These investments will
    complement discretionary funding to modernize public health data
    collection and increase capacity for disease early warning
    forecasting and analyzing future outbreaks, including at the Center
    for Forecasting and Outbreak Analytics. Funding will also promote
    health equity in pandemic response infrastructure through
    initiatives to support marginalized and underserved communities
    through community-based public health services and support
    state-based and international efforts to control antibiotic
    resistance.

<!-- -->

-   **Invest in basic research to enable an effective response to novel
    pandemics and biological threats.** The Budget provides $12.1
    billion to NIH for research and development of vaccines,
    diagnostics, and therapeutics against high priority biological
    threats, including safe and secure laboratory capacity and clinical
    trial infrastructure. Developing a vaccine against COVID-19 built on
    twenty years of prior federally funded scientific research on
    coronaviruses. Accordingly, the Budget supports preclinical and
    clinical research and development of prototype vaccines and
    therapeutics against priority viral families. These investments will
    provide essential foundational knowledge to meet the goal of
    developing vaccines and therapeutics against novel biological
    threats within 100 days.

<!-- -->

-   **Modernize and streamline our regulatory infrastructure.** The
    Budget provides $1.6 billion for the FDA to expand and modernize
    regulatory capacity, information technology, and laboratory
    infrastructure to support the evaluation of medical countermeasures.

<!-- -->

-   **Advance biosafety and biosecurity in the United States and
    globally to prevent biological incidents. **The Budget provides $1.8
    billion within the total $88.2 billion request to enable the CDC and
    NIH to expand efforts to strengthen biosafety and biosecurity
    practices domestically and globally. This includes applied research
    and innovation in biosafety and biosecurity, which will expand
    capabilities to identify and minimize safety and security risks in
    the design and development of biotechnology.

<!-- -->

-   **Transform global health security and pandemic preparedness for
    COVID-19 variants and future biological threats.** A biological
    threat anywhere can turn into a health emergency everywhere.  The
    most effective way to respond to biological threats is to respond to
    it at its source. The Budget includes $6.5 billion in mandatory
    funding for the Department of State and USAID to make transformative
    investments in pandemic and biological threat preparedness globally,
    which complements ongoing U.S. investments to also strengthen health
    systems. This includes $4.5 billion in seed funding to establish
    global, regional, and local capacity through a new financial
    intermediary fund at the World Bank focused on global health
    security and pandemic preparedness. This effort will build on U.S.
    global health security investments and provide a more structured
    platform to account for and measure international gaps and gains. 
    It will also accelerate U.S. leadership to bring other donors to the
    table and will provide $500 million over five years to the Coalition
    for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI) to support innovating
    science and technological capabilities to shorten the cycle for
    development of safe, effective, and affordable vaccines.

These investments will build on and accelerate innovations to prepare
for future COVID-19 variants, and ensure the capabilities we are
building to combat COVID-19 are sustained for future
pandemics.Acknowledging the possibility that future COVID-19 variants
could have severe consequences for U.S. health and livelihoods, the
White House Office of Science and Technology Policy, HHS, and the White
House COVID-19 team launched the Pandemic Innovation Task Force, which
assembled science and technology leaders across the executive branch to
accelerate pandemic innovations with the potential to have a major
impact on our ability to respond to the COVID-19 pandemic and future
biological threats.

Collectively, these activities will build capabilities the nation
urgently needs to respond to future pandemics and biological threats
from any source, strengthen international systems so that we can detect
threats early and respond rapidly, and enable the nation to decisively
act on the lessons from COVID-19. 

  
\###
