---
category: statements-releases
date: '2022-03-21'
modified_time: 2022-03-21 15:03:00-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/03/21/statement-by-president-biden-on-our-nations-cybersecurity/
published_time: 2022-03-21 14:00:00-04:00
title: "Statement by President Biden on our Nation\u2019s Cybersecurity"
---
 
This is a critical moment to accelerate our work to improve domestic
cybersecurity and bolster our national resilience.  I have previously
warned about the potential that Russia could conduct malicious cyber
activity against the United States, including as a response to the
unprecedented economic costs we’ve imposed on Russia alongside our
allies and partners. It’s part of Russia’s playbook. Today, my
Administration is reiterating those warnings based on evolving
intelligence that the Russian Government is exploring options for
potential cyberattacks.

From day one, my Administration has worked to strengthen our national
cyber defenses, mandating extensive cybersecurity measures for the
Federal Government and those critical infrastructure sectors where we
have authority to do so, and creating innovative public-private
partnerships and initiatives to enhance cybersecurity across all our
critical infrastructure. Congress has partnered with us on these efforts
— we appreciate that Members of Congress worked across the aisle to
require companies to report cyber incidents to the United States
Government.

My Administration will continue to use every tool to deter, disrupt, and
if necessary, respond to cyberattacks against critical infrastructure.
But the Federal Government can’t defend against this threat alone. Most
of America’s critical infrastructure is owned and operated by the
private sector and critical infrastructure owners and operators must
accelerate efforts to lock their digital doors. The Department of
Homeland Security’s Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency
(CISA) has been actively working with organizations across critical
infrastructure to rapidly [share information and mitigation
guidance](http://www.CISA.gov/Shields-Up) to help protect their systems
and networks

If you have not already done so, I urge our private sector partners to
[harden your cyber defenses
immediately](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/03/21/fact-sheet-act-now-to-protect-against-potential-cyberattacks/)
by implementing the best practices we have developed together over the
last year. You have the power, the capacity, and the responsibility to
strengthen the cybersecurity and resilience of the critical services and
technologies on which Americans rely. We need everyone to do their part
to meet one of the defining threats of our time — your vigilance and
urgency today can prevent or mitigate attacks tomorrow.

\###
