---
category: statements-releases
date: '2022-03-15'
modified_time: 2022-03-15 14:49:22-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/03/15/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-commitments-to-advance-pay-equity-and-support-womens-economic-security/
published_time: 2022-03-15 10:12:09-04:00
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden Harris Administration Announces Commitments to Advance Pay\
  \ Equity and Support Women\u2019s Economic Security"
---
 
  
*This Equal Pay Day, the White House is announcing critical steps
that the Biden-Harris Administration is taking to advance pay equity and
promote women’s economic security.*

President Biden and Vice President Harris have long championed equal pay
as a cornerstone of their commitment to ensuring all people have a fair
and equal opportunity to get ahead. Closing gender and racial wage gaps
is essential to building an equitable economy and addressing the
barriers that have long hampered women from fully participating in the
labor force. There is growing recognition that reliance on past salary
and a lack of pay transparency can contribute to arbitrary and
potentially discriminatory pay that then follows women and workers of
color from job to job, entrenching gender and racial pay gaps over
time. But we still have work to do. In 2020, the average woman working
full-time, year-round earned 83 cents for every dollar paid to their
average male counterpart.  Compared with the average man working
full-time, year-round, disparities are even greater for Black women,
Native American women, and Latinas, as well as certain subpopulations of
Asian women.

This Equal Pay Day, the Vice President is hosting a virtual
summit, bringing together partners across the country who are taking
critical steps to tackle pay discrimination, create good-paying jobs,
and support families’ access to care.

Today, the Biden-Harris Administration is announcing new actions to
promote women’s employment and support working families across the
country. These actions will:

• **Advance pay equity for the Federal workforce.**  The Office of
Personnel Management announced that they anticipate issuing a proposed
regulation that will address the use of prior salary history in the
hiring and pay-setting process for Federal employees, consistent with
the President’s Executive Order on Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, and
Accessibility in the Federal Workforce.  

 • **Promote efforts to achieve pay equity for job applicants and
employees of Federal contractors.** President Biden signed an Executive
Order directing the Federal Acquisition Regulatory Council to
consider enhancing pay equity and transparency, including by limiting or
prohibiting federal contractors from seeking and considering information
about job applicants’ and employees’ existing or past compensation when
making employment decisions, and appropriate accountability
measures.  The Department of Labor will consult with the FAR Council on
the efficiency, economy, and effectiveness in Federal contracting that
would be promoted by potential regulatory changes, and the most
effective implementation strategy for any subsequent rulemaking.

• **Strengthen pay equity audits by Federal contractors.** The
Department of Labor’s Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs
issued a
new [directive](https://www.dol.gov/agencies/ofccp/directives/2022-01) clarifying
federal contractors’ annual obligation to analyze their compensation
practices.  Conducting these pay equity audits helps address and prevent
pay disparities based on gender, race, or ethnicity.

• **Ensure equitable access to good-paying jobs. **The Department of
Labor issued
a [report](https://www.dol.gov/sites/dolgov/files/WB/media/BearingTheCostReport.pdf) analyzing
the impact that women’s concentration in low-wage sectors – and their
relative underrepresentation in many good-paying occupations – has on
their overall economic security and gender and racial wage gaps. The
report finds that, in 2019, Black women lost $39.3 billion and Hispanic
women lost $46.7 billion in wages compared to white men due to
differences in industry and occupation. This segregation intensified the
COVID-19 pandemic’s disproportionate impact on women, in part due to the
overrepresentation of women in hard-hit industries such as hospitality.
 

• **Address discrimination against caregivers.  **Yesterday, the Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission [published technical
assistance](https://www.eeoc.gov/laws/guidance/covid-19-pandemic-and-caregiver-discrimination-under-federal-employment) on
caregiver discrimination, addressing the circumstances under which
discrimination against applicants and employees based on
pandemic-related caregiving responsibilities may violate federal
employment discrimination laws.

The actions announced today build on steps the Administration has taken
to advance pay equity, including:

• **Provided immediate relief through the American Rescue Plan (ARP) to
millions of women who have borne the brunt of the pandemic. ** This work
includes: standing up a historic vaccination program that has fully
vaccinated more than 215 million Americans; reopening schools; providing
direct payments to individuals; expanding nutrition programs for
families; providing paid leave tax credits for small and midsize
employers; distributing the majority of emergency rental assistance to
female-headed households; and expanding the [Child Tax
Credit](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/09/15/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-whole-of-government-effort-to-ensure-child-tax-credit-reaches-all-eligible-families/),
which last year helped reduce child poverty to its estimated lowest
level in recorded American history.

• **Helped keep child care providers open and boosted pay for child care
workers.** States have already delivered American Rescue
Plan stabilization grants to more than 150,000 child care providers
serving more than 5 million children and their
families. One [survey](https://www.naeyc.org/sites/default/files/wysiwyg/user-98/naeyc_ece_field_survey_february2022.pdf) finds
that 92% of providers receiving funds relied on them to help stay open
and nearly half used them to repay debt incurred during the
pandemic. Many states also used funds to help boost compensation of
the child care workforce. For example, Minnesota is requiring providers
to increase compensation, while North Carolina and Connecticut offered
bonus payments to providers who increased compensation of the
workforce. Increasing compensation for child care workershelps narrow
gender and racial pay gaps, as more than nine in ten are women and more
than four in ten are women of color. While ARP funds allowed child care
programs to provide temporary bonuses, they need long-term funding asthe
President has proposed to sustainably increase wages.

• **Provided tax relief to help families with child care costs during
the pandemic by delivering a historic increase in the Child and
Dependent Care Tax Credit (CDCTC) to support millions of working
families this tax season.** The ARP increased the maximum CDCTC for a
median income family with two children under age 13 by more
than sixtimes—providing up to $8,000 towards child care expenses in
2021. It will reimburse most families for up to half of their child care
expenses. And the ARP CDCTC is fully-refundable, helping lower-income
parents fully benefit regardless of their tax liability. Even before the
pandemic, families struggled to afford child care, forcing parents and
especially mothers to forego higher paying jobs, work fewer hours,
or take time out of the workforce, leading to lower pay over their
career. The President has urged Congress to pass his plan for child
care, which could lower child care costs for nine in ten families with
young children.

• **Increased the minimum wage to $15 per hour for Federal workers
and contractors, benefiting manywomen and people of color. **The
President issued [Executive
Orders](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/04/27/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-issues-an-executive-order-to-raise-the-minimum-wage-to-15-for-federal-contractors/) directing
the Administration to work toward ensuring that employees working on
federal contracts and federal employees earned a $15 per hour minimum
wage. Those directives went into effect in January, raising the wages of
about 370,000 federal employees and employees of federal contractors. In
addition to helping the government do its work more efficiently, these
directives take a step towards narrowing racial and gender disparities
in income, as many low-wage workers are women and people of color. The
order also eliminates the subminimum wage for workers with
disabilities. The President has called on Congress to raise the federal
minimum wage to $15 an hour, so that American workers can have a job
that delivers dignity, and to make greater strides towards pay equity.

• **Signed into law the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law.  **Administration
investments through this law will increase access to good-paying jobs,
including for women, people of color, and members of other communities
who are currently underrepresented in the sectors where these jobs will
be created, such as transportation, clean energy, and
broadband.**  **The Department of Transportation and the Department of
Labor signed a [memorandum of
understanding](https://www.dol.gov/sites/dolgov/files/OPA/newsreleases/2022/03/OSEC20220210.pdf) to
promote the creation of good infrastructure and transportation jobs with
a focus on equitable workforce development using funding from the
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law.

• **Issued an [Executive
Order](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/06/25/executive-order-on-diversity-equity-inclusion-and-accessibility-in-the-federal-workforce/) to
promote diversity, equity, inclusion, and accessibility across the
federal government – the nation’s largest employer** – including by
prioritizing efforts to close gender and racial wage gaps, address
workplace safety and harassment, including in our national security
workforce, and advance equity for LGBTQI+ public servants.

• **Issued an [Executive
Order](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/07/09/fact-sheet-executive-order-on-promoting-competition-in-the-american-economy/) on
Promoting Competition in the American Economy. **This established the
Administration’s policy of addressing [anticompetitive
behavior](https://home.treasury.gov/system/files/136/State-of-Labor-Market-Competition-2022.pdf) in
labor markets, which can fall heavily on women and workers of color. The
Order includes specific initiatives to promote competition in labor
markets, including encouraging the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) to ban
or limit non-compete agreements, and encouraging the FTC and the
Department of Justice to strengthen antitrust guidance to prevent
employers from collaborating to suppress wages or reduce benefits by
sharing wage and benefit information with one another.
