---
category: statements-releases
date: '2022-03-31'
modified_time: 2022-03-31 10:35:50-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/03/31/fact-sheet-president-bidens-plan-to-respond-to-putins-price-hike-at-the-pump/
published_time: 2022-03-31 10:45:00-04:00
title: "FACT SHEET: President\_Biden\u2019s Plan to Respond to Putin\u2019s Price\
  \ Hike at the\_Pump"
---
 
Americans face rising prices at the pump because of Putin’s Price Hike.
 Since Putin accelerated his military build-up around Ukraine, gas
prices have increased by nearly a dollar per gallon.  Because of Putin’s
war of choice, less oil is getting to market, and the reduction in
supply is raising prices at the pump for Americans.  President Biden is
committed to doing everything in his power to help American families who
are paying more out of pocket as a result.  That is why today, President
Biden will announce a two-part plan to ease the pain that families are
feeling by increasing the supply of oil starting immediately and
achieving lasting American energy independence that reduces demand for
oil and bolsters our clean energy economy. 

**<u>Immediately Increasing Supply</u>**

At the start of this year, gas was about $3.30 a gallon.  Today, it’s
over $4.20, an increase of nearly $1.  And now, a significant amount of
Russian oil is not making it to market.  The President banned the import
of Russian oil – which Republicans and Democrats in Congress called for
and supported.  It was the right thing to do.  But, as the President
said, Russian oil coming off the global market would come with a cost,
and Americans are seeing that at the pump.

The first part of the President’s plan is to immediately increase supply
by doing everything we can to encourage domestic production now and
through a historic release from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve to serve
as a bridge to greater supply in the months ahead.

***Increasing Domestic Production***

The fact is that there is nothing standing in the way of domestic oil
production. The United States is already approaching record levels of
oil and natural gas production. There are oil companies that are doing
the right thing and committing to ramp up production now.  Right now,
domestic production is expected to increase by 1 million barrels per day
this year and nearly 700,000 barrels per day next year.

Still, too many companies aren’t doing their part and are choosing to
make extraordinary profits and without making additional investment to
help with supply.  One CEO even acknowledged that, even if the price
goes to $200 a barrel, they’re not going to step up production. 

Right now, the oil and gas industry is sitting on more than 12 million
acres of non-producing Federal land with 9,000 unused but
already-approved permits for production. **Today, President Biden is
calling on Congress to make companies pay fees on wells from their
leases that they haven’t used in years and on acres of public lands that
they are hoarding without producing.** Companies that are producing from
their leased acres and existing wells will not face higher fees. But
companies that continue to sit on non-producing acres will have to
choose whether to start producing or pay a fee for each idled well and
unused acre.

***Historic Release from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve as a Bridge
Through the Crisis***

After consultation with allies and partners, the President will announce
the largest release of oil reserves in history, putting one million
additional barrels on the market per day on average – every day – for
the next six months.  The scale of this release is unprecedented: the
world has never had a release of oil reserves at this 1 million per day
rate for this length of time. This record release will provide a
historic amount of supply to serve as bridge until the end of the year
when domestic production ramps up. 

The Department of Energy will use the revenue from the release to
restock the Strategic Petroleum Reserve in future years. This will
provide a signal of future demand and help encourage domestic production
today, and will ensure the continued readiness of the Strategic
Petroleum Reserve to respond to future emergencies.  

President Biden is coordinating this action with allies and partners
around the world, and other countries are expected to join in this
action, bringing the total release to well over an average 1 million
barrels per day.

**<u>Achieving Real American Energy Independence</u>**

The United States is the largest oil producer in the world and is a net
energy exporter.  Despite that, the actions of a dictator half a world
away can still impact American families’ pocketbooks. The President will
announce his commitment to achieving real energy independence – which
centers on reducing our dependence on oil altogether.

**The President will call on Congress to pass his plan to speed the
transition to clean energy that is made in America.**  His plan will
help ensure that America creates millions of good-paying union jobs in
clean, cutting-edge industries for generations to come. And it will save
American families money in theimmediate future – including more than
$950 a year in gas savings from taking advantage of electric vehicles,
and an additional $500 a year from using clean electricity like solar
and heat pumps to power their homes. ** ** 

**And, the President will issue a directive, authorizing the use of the
Defense Production Act to secure American production of critical
materials to bolster our clean energy economy** by reducing our reliance
on China and other countries for the minerals and materials that will
power our clean energy future.  Specifically, the DPA will be authorized
to support the production and processing of minerals and materials used
for large capacity batteries–such as lithium, nickel, cobalt, graphite,
and manganese—and the Department of Defense will implement this
authority using strong environmental, labor, community, and tribal
consultation standards. The sectors supported by these large capacity
batteries—transportation and the power sector—account for more than half
of our nation’s carbon emissions.  The President is also reviewing
potential further uses of DPA – in addition to minerals and materials –
to secure safer, cleaner, and more resilient energy for America.

This week alone, President Biden announced historic efforts to increase
energy efficiency and lower costs for consumers.  The Department of
Energy opened applications for more than $3 billion in new Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law funding—ten times the historical funding levels of
the Weatherization Assistance Program—for **energy efficiency and
electrification upgrades in thousands of homes** **that will save
families hundreds of dollars on utility bills**.  The Administration
also advanced smart standards that will lower consumer costs, including
a roadmap of 100 actions this year that will **save families $100
annually through more efficient home appliances and equipment,** as well
as **new fuel economy standards for cars and trucks** **to save drivers
money at the pump**.  And the Administration is seeking additional
opportunities to ramp up the deployment of **heat pumps to displace fuel
burned in buildings**, as well as programs to drive **efficiency,
electrification, and use of clean fuels in the industrial sector**.

\###
