---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2022-03-03'
modified_time: 2022-03-03 14:09:52-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/03/03/what-they-are-saying-members-of-the-congress-applaud-president-bidens-state-of-the-union-address/
published_time: 2022-03-03 14:09:51-05:00
title: "WHAT THEY ARE SAYING: Members of the Congress Applaud President\_Biden\u2019\
  s State of the Union\_Address"
---
 
In his first State of the Union, the President spoke directly to the
American people about his vision to build a better America. He reminded
the country that our best days lie ahead, and that his Presidency is
about giving everyone a fair shot – because when given half a shot,
ordinary people can do extraordinary things. The President’s economic
strategy is an historic shift from the old, outdated trickle-down
approach to one that puts workers, families, and small businesses first.

The President also announced his unity agenda, consisting of four areas
where we have historically been able to come together and find agreement
regardless of party. He has called on Congress to send bills to his desk
to deliver progress for the American people: to beat the opioid crisis,
address mental health, support our veterans, and end cancer as we know
it.

Over the next year, the Biden-Harris Administration will continue
working to make communities safer, move forward safely from COVID-19,
and lower prices.

Members of Congress praised the President’s remarks.

*Here’s what they are saying:*

### Senators

**Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer:** “Here’s how far we’ve come
with President Biden and Dems in Congress: —Fastest economic growth in
one year since the 80s —More jobs in one year than in any president’s
1st year on record —COVID cases dropping —Over 215M Americans vaccinated
And there’s so much more to do! \#SOTU”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenSchumer/status/1498848825313800195),
3/1/22\]

**Senate Majority Whip Dick Durbin:** “I look forward to working with
the President to deliver on his Unity Agenda to combat the opioid crisis
that has plagued our country, strengthen mental health resources,
support our veterans, and end cancer as we know it. These are bipartisan
issues we can all agree on.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenatorDurbin/status/1498865777428029442?s=20&t=sJMwXqaIQz3RaJB0EDkB-A),
3/1/22\]

**Delaware Senator Tom Carper, Chairman, Senate Environment and Public
Works Committee**: “We’re rebuilding our nation’s crumbling roads &
bridges, upgrading our airports, and removing lead pipes to help all
Americans have access to clean drinking water. Like @POTUS said, enough
with infrastructure week. We’re starting an infrastructure decade.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenatorCarper/status/1498848960928178184),
3/1/22\]

**Maryland Senator Ben Cardin, Chairman, Senate Small Business
Committee:** “I challenge you to understand prescription drug prices in
the US. I’ve been studying them for years and I don’t understand why the
US pays more for prescription drugs than other industrialized nations.
\#SOTU”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenatorCardin/status/1498849998410338304),
3/1/22\]

**Michigan Senator Debbie Stabenow, Chair, Senate Agriculture, Nutrition
and Forestry Committee**: “There’s no doubt that MI workers & businesses
are the best in the world. That’s why I worked with @POTUS to include my
Make It in America Act in the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act!
This makes sure our tax dollars are spent on American products &
American jobs. \#SOTU”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenStabenow/status/1498847275086487554),
3/1/22\]

**New Jersey Senator Bob Menendez, Chairman, Senate Foreign Affairs
Committee:** “Under @POTUS leadership, the transformative bipartisan law
that Congress passed is delivering long-overdue investments in our
nation’s infrastructure while creating jobs and economic opportunity for
communities long overlooked.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenatorMenendez/status/1498847549066784770),
3/1/22\]

**Ohio Senator Sherrod Brown, Chairman, Senate Banking, Housing and
Urban Affairs Committee:** “President Biden has united the free world
against Russia’s invasion. Tonight, members of both parties are standing
together in solidarity with the people of Ukraine. \#SOTU”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenSherrodBrown/status/1498845255013179397),
3/1/22\]

**Washington Senator Patty Murray, Chair, Senate Health, Education,
Labor and Pensions Committee:** “It’s good to see @POTUS start the
\#SOTU strong with steps to hold Russia accountable for its unjustified
and unprovoked war of aggression while uniting our global allies.
Congress has a critical role to play and I’ll keep looking for ways to
support the Ukrainian people.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/PattyMurray/status/1498846398741102592),
3/1/22\]

**California Senator Alex Padilla:** “.@POTUS is right — we need to
lower your costs, not your wages. \#SOTU”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenAlexPadilla/status/1498849898904576001),
3/1/22\]

**Hawaii Senator Mazie Hirono:** “.@POTUS and @SenateDems are working
hard to: —Reduce the costs of everyday expenses —Help small businesses
thrive —Create good-paying jobs \#SOTU”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/maziehirono/status/1498846427849662471),
3/1/22\]

**Illinois Senator Tammy Duckworth:** “Thanks to President Biden’s
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, we’re done talking about infrastructure
\*weeks.\* We’re heading for an infrastructure \*decade.\*👏#SOTU”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/TammyDuckworth/status/1498849634353041410),
3/1/22\]

**Maryland Senator Chris Van Hollen:** “Thanks in large part to the
\#AmericanRescuePlan, our nation is now experiencing the fastest
economic growth in nearly 40 years. Not to mention, a faster recovery
than any other advanced economy. We’re putting money back in hardworking
Americans’ pockets. \#SOTU”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/ChrisVanHollen/status/1498847618889404417),
3/1/22\]

**Nevada Senator Jacky Rosen:** “Thank you @POTUS for your commitment to
a clean energy future. 🌎 Investments in clean energy help Nevada by
protecting our environment and helping to conserve our treasured public
lands. \#SOTU”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenJackyRosen/status/1498849802926309382),
3/1/22\]

**Pennsylvania Senator Bob Casey:** “Our economy has added an
earth-shattering 7.1 million jobs since @POTUS took office. Congress
worked with President Biden to make a once-in-a-generation investment in
the Nation’s infrastructure. America is leading the world in its
economic recovery. It’s historic. \#SOTU2022”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenBobCasey/status/1498847071234842631),
3/1/22\]

### Members of Congress

**Speaker of the House, California Congresswoman Nancy Pelosi**: “With
@POTUS leadership, we will make more goods in America, lower everyday
costs of energy, child care, prescription drugs and more, deliver better
prices for consumers & create more good-paying union jobs. Together, we
are Building a Better America.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SpeakerPelosi/status/1499002644098162693?s=20&t=sJMwXqaIQz3RaJB0EDkB-A),
3/1/22\]

**House Majority Leader, Maryland Congressman Steny Hoyer:** “In his
\#SOTU address, @POTUS laid out his vision for \#BuildingABetterAmerica
that leads the fight for democracy around the world while ensuring that
our democracy delivers opportunity at home & grows stronger, safer, &
more prosperous in the years ahead.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/LeaderHoyer/status/1498876229642035206?s=20&t=sJMwXqaIQz3RaJB0EDkB-A),
3/1/22\]

**House Democratic Caucus Chair, New York Congressman Hakeem Jeffries**:
“President Biden and House Democrats are Building a Better America.
FACTS.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepJeffries/status/1498846943501553665?s=20&t=sJMwXqaIQz3RaJB0EDkB-A),
3/1/22\]

**House Majority Whip, South Carolina Congressman Jim Clyburn: “**As
Chair of @COVIDOversight, I can tell you we are in a much better place
today than where we were when @POTUS took office. Under @POTUS’
leadership, vaccinations are up and cases are down. Recent updates to
public health recommendations reflect our success. \#SOTU2022”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/WhipClyburn/status/1498852912428208130?s=20&t=sJMwXqaIQz3RaJB0EDkB-A),
3/1/22\]

**Massachusetts Congressman Jim McGovern, Chairman, House Rules
Committee**: “American diplomacy matters. President Biden has continued
to champion diplomacy on the world’s stage and is holding Putin and his
corrupt regime accountable for their senseless violence in Ukraine. I am
so glad he is president in this moment. \#SOTU”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepMcGovern/status/1498843832703672323),
3/1/22\]

**California Congressman Jared Huffman: **“At tonight’s State of the
Union there will be a lot of accomplishments for @POTUS to talk about.
But when it comes to the State of our Climate, we’ve got work to do.
Thanks @GND\_Network for showing up with me tonight to send the message
that \#climateaction is \#PastDue. \#SOTU.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepHuffman/status/1498819400610238465),
3/1/22\] 

**California Congresswoman Nanette Barragan:** “@POTUS is right, the
climate, clean energy, & EJ investments in \#BuildBackBetter will save
the avg family $500 a year! Add to that reducing dependance on Russian
oil, union jobs, less air pollution, & bold climate action.
\#ActOnClimate #SOTU.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepBarragan/status/1498851101570908170),
3/1/22\] 

**California Congressman Mark Takano:** “We have a sacred obligation to
deliver veterans the care they’ve earned. As Chairman of
@VetAffairsDems, I’m committed to that obligation, and @POTUS is, too.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepMarkTakano/status/1498857387352068101?s=20&t=FQEdYHPxu12THulaCXN6pg),
3/1/22\]

**California Congresswoman Sara Jacobs**: “Over this past year, @POTUS
has delivered big for San Diego. Through the Bipartisan Infrastructure
Law, San Diego Int. Airport will receive $24 million to boost tourism +
strengthen our economy while $29 billion is on its way to fund
much-needed repairs to CA’s roads + bridges.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SaraJacobsCA/status/1498848646510567428),
3/1/22\]

**California Congresswoman Judy Chu, Chairwoman, Congressional Asian
American Pacific Caucus (CAPAC):** “Tonight, President Biden laid out
his vision to build a better America for all of us. This is especially
important for the Asian American and Pacific Islander (AAPI) communities
that have been disproportionately impacted by the pandemic. We need to
help AAPI families get back to work and back on their feet and that is
precisely what the President detailed tonight.”
\[[Statement](https://capac-chu.house.gov/press-release/capac-chair-statement-president-biden%E2%80%99s-state-union-address),
3/1/22\]

**Colorado Congressman Joe Neguse**: “Through a global pandemic,
economic upheaval, devastating western wildfires and crises at home and
abroad, President Biden has never faltered in delivering needed support
to the American people and providing leadership and direction in times
of great consequence.”
\[[Statement](https://neguse.house.gov/media/press-releases/congressman-neguse-responds-to-president-bidens-state-of-the-union-address),
3/1/22\]

**Delaware Congresswoman Lisa Blunt Rochester**: “.@POTUS knows what
he’s talking about when it comes to cracking down on fraud and abuse. He
did it with the Recovery Act and he’ll do it with pandemic relief.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepLBR/status/1498851765386715139),
3/1/22\]

**Florida Congresswoman Lois Frankel**: “The people of Ukraine are
inspiring the world with their bravery & resilience in their fight for
the future of democracy. @POTUS said it best: “freedom will always
triumph over tyranny,” & we will support them against Russian
aggression. \#SOTU”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepLoisFrankel/status/1498843461692370949),
3/1/22\]

**Illinois Congressman Mike Quigley:** President Biden’s Infrastructure
Investment & Jobs Act will help Illinois fight climate change by
investing $4 billion in public transportation and $226 million in
bicycle and pedestrian infrastructure. \#SOTU
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepMikeQuigley/status/1498847184711819268),
3/1/22\] 

  
**Michigan Congresswoman Debbie Dingell**: “Last night, @POTUS presented
a clear vision for \#BuildingABetterAmerica, & he showed a deep
understanding of the challenges rising costs are causing our neighbors &
working families.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepDebDingell/status/1499085614112772101?s=20&t=sJMwXqaIQz3RaJB0EDkB-A),
3/2/22\]

**Nevada Congresswoman Susie Lee:** “.@POTUS is right. I hear it all too
often. Seniors going hungry in order to cover the costs of life-saving
medications. Diabetics who can’t afford insulin. It’s heartbreaking. I
stand with @POTUS and my Democratic colleagues. We must
\#LowerDrugPrices now.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepSusieLee/status/1498851795514400776),
3/1/22\]

**New York Congressman Mondaire Jones**: “Last night, @POTUS laid out
his plan to build a better America. Higher wages, affordable child care
for every family, lower prescription drug costs, and environmental
justice. I’m all in. Are you with us?”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/MondaireJones/status/1499117863717773312?s=20&t=sJMwXqaIQz3RaJB0EDkB-A),
3/2/22\]

**North Carolina Congresswoman Alma Adams:** “The American people stand
united behind the people of Ukraine and against Putin’s attempts to
divide our country. As long as we stand together, dictators will never
prevail. 🇺🇦 Thank you President Biden for your leadership. \#SOTU”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepAdams/status/1498844195016036371),
3/1/22\]

**North Carolina Congressman David Price:** “@POTUS’ four-point economic
plan will reduce everyday costs for American families while stimulating
job growth and increasing good paying jobs for workers across the
country. \#SOTU”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepDavidEPrice/status/1498851500675813377),
3/1/22\]

**Ohio Congresswoman Joyce Beatty, Chair, Congressional Black Caucus**:
“Tonight, President Biden laid out a clear message for every American:
We are building a better America, and the state of our union is strong.”
\#SOTU2022
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepBeatty/status/1498864591744425988),
3/1/22\]

**Ohio Congressman Tim Ryan**: “$20 billion. 7,000 good-paying, union
construction jobs. 3,000 good-paying manufacturing jobs. + millions of
dollars more that will be felt across Ohio. A reminder of what’s
possible when we have the guts to take on China by investing in our
workers here at home. \#SOTU”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepTimRyan/status/1498848641422929921),
3/1/22\]

**Texas Congressman Colin Allred:** “.@POTUS provided free masks, free
tests and more resources to help protect Americans from COVID-19. This
was critical to help people stay safe and more help is on the way.
\#SOTU”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepColinAllred/status/1498853326485700609),
3/1/22\]

**Texas Congressman Joaquin Castro: “**Climate change is one of the
biggest threats we face, and it’s accelerating at dangerous speed. From
Winter Storm Uri to Hurricane Harvey, Texans known the devastating
impacts of climate change firsthand. Glad to see @POTUS’s commitment to
this. \#SOTU”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/JoaquinCastrotx/status/1498851874199506947),
3/1/22\]
