---
category: statements-releases
date: '2022-03-31'
modified_time: 2022-03-31 11:32:15-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/03/31/president-biden-announces-appointments-to-board-of-advisors-on-historically-black-colleges-and-universities/
published_time: 2022-03-31 16:00:00-04:00
title: President Biden Announces Appointments to Board of Advisors on Historically
  Black Colleges and Universities
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Biden announces his intent to appoint
qualified and diverse leaders to the President’s Board of Advisors on
Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs). The President’s
Board will advance the goal of the [HBCU
Initiative](https://thehilltoponline.com/2021/09/03/exclusive-biden-harris-administration-announces-white-house-initiative-targeting-hbcus/),
established by the Carter Administration, to increase the capacity of
HBCUs to provide the highest-quality education to its students and
continue serving as engines of opportunity.  
 

In 2021, President Biden appointed Drs. Tony Allen and Glenda Glover to
serve as Chair and Vice Chair of the President’s Board of Advisors on
HBCUs, respectively. In February, he appointed Dr. Dietra Trent as
executive director of the White House HBCU Initiative.

  
The Biden-Harris Administration is committed to supporting the vital
mission of HBCUs. Through the American Rescue Plan, grant funding, and
by forgiving capital improvement debt of many these institutions, the
Biden-Harris Administration has already committed more than [$5.8
billion in
support](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/12/17/fact-sheet-the-biden-%E2%81%A0harris-administrations-historic-investments-and-support-for-historically-black-colleges-and-universities/).
[Reestablishing the White House HBCU
Initiative](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/09/03/executive-order-on-white-house-initiative-on-advancing-educational-equity-excellence-and-economic-opportunity-through-historically-black-colleges-and-universities/) –
and appointing qualified and diverse individuals to the Board – will
allow the administration to build on that financial commitment with
continued institutional support. 

President Biden announces his intent to appoint the following
individuals to serve as members on the board:

-   Makola M. Abdullah
-   Javaune Adams-Gaston
-   Paige Blake
-   Thasunda Brown Duckett
-   Willie A. Deese
-   Patrick Cokley
-   Monica Goldson
-   Brett J. Hart
-   Taraji P. Henson
-   Beverly W. Hogan
-   Lisa P. Jackson
-   Shevrin D. Jones
-   Walter M. Kimbrough
-   William F. L. Moses
-   Christopher E. Paul
-   Quinton T. Ross Jr.
-   Ruth J. Simmons
-   Janeen Uzzell

**Makola M. Abdullah**

Dr. Makola M. Abdullah is the 14<sup>th</sup> President of Virginia
State University (VSU). He is a member of numerous boards and committees
including: Council of 1890s Presidents for Association of Public
Land-Grant Universities (APLU); Board of Trustees for the Southern
Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on College, and the
Council of Presidents for Virginia Institutions of Higher Education, and
Board member of Big Brothers Big Sisters of America. Prior to his
appointment as President of Virginia State University, Dr. Abdullah
served as provost and senior vice president at Bethune-Cookman
University in Daytona Beach, provost and vice president for academic
affairs at Florida Memorial University in Miami Gardens, and dean and
director of 1890 land grant programs at Florida Agricultural and
Mechanical University in Tallahassee. Dr. Abdullah is a Chicago native.
He earned his undergraduate degree from Howard University in civil
engineering and his doctorate and master’s degrees in civil engineering
from Northwestern University. He is the youngest African American to
receive a Ph.D. in engineering. He is a member of Alpha Phi Alpha
Fraternity. He and his wife, Ahkinyala Cobb-Abdullah, Ph.D., are the
proud parents of a son, Mikaili, and a daughter, Sefiyetu, who both are
college graduates.

**Javaune Adams-Gaston  **

Javaune Adams-Gaston, Ph.D., serves as the seventh President of Norfolk
State University, the Commonwealth of Virginia’s largest Historically
Black College and University in Norfolk, Virginia. Dr. Adams-Gaston is
committed to the mission of Norfolk State University to transform the
lives of students through access to higher education and excellence in
scholarship, career preparation, and service. Dr. Adams-Gaston is
committed to student success and the development of the student
holistically through academic excellence, mentorship, mental and
physical wellness, internships, and civic engagement. Since her arrival
on campus in June 2019, Dr. Adams-Gaston has advocated for increased
financial support for the benefit of students, faculty and staff and the
stability of the institution. Dr. Adams-Gaston was pivotal in securing a
$40 million gift from philanthropist MacKenzie Scott—the largest single
gift in NSU’s history. She has led the university in successful efforts
to secure grants and partnerships from corporations such as Microsoft,
Netflix, Apple, IBM, Dominion Energy, and others. Under her tenure, NSU
has been designated a Top 20 HBCU for consecutive years in U.S News and
World Report Rankings. Prior to becoming President at Norfolk State
University, Dr. Adams-Gaston served as Senior Vice President for Student
Life at The Ohio State University. During her career at the University
of Maryland, Dr. Adams-Gaston held numerous positions including
psychologist, associate dean in academic affairs, assistant athletic
director, equity administrator, and graduate faculty member. Dr.
Adams-Gaston had a practice for 25 years as a licensed psychologist and
as an educator, she is frequently asked to provide speeches, lectures,
and to serve on panels regarding student success and leadership.

**Paige Blake**

Paige Blake is a 20-year-old native of Prince George’s County, Maryland.
She is a junior at Bowie State University where she majors in Biology
and is on the pre-med track. Paige plans to attend medical school to
study Neurology to help others with Spina Bifida and other neurological
conditions. Paige was diagnosed at age 4 with a rare form of Sacral
Agenesis (a form of Spina Bifida). Over time she’s learned the
importance of advocacy after having her own share of hardships in her
life with her disability. Paige has used her personal experiences to
advocate and help others in various ways, such as organizing donation
drives with her Girl Scout troop where they sent medical supplies to
countries overseas and working with The Congressional Black Caucus and
President Obama’s White House Initiative on African American Excellence
to advocate for disabled students. Currently, Paige has been named the
2021-2022 White House Initiative HBCU Competitiveness Scholar for Bowie
State University. She also is working with The University System of
Maryland Student Council as the Director of Student Affairs, where she
advocates for students to ensure that present and future college
students in the state of Maryland will have positive and equal
opportunities.

**Thasunda Brown Duckett**

Thasunda Brown Duckett is President and Chief Executive Officer of TIAA,
a Fortune 100 provider of secure retirements and outcome-focused
investment solutions to millions of people working in higher education,
healthcare and other mission-driven organizations. As TIAA’s CEO,
Duckett leads a company whose mission is defined by financial inclusion
and opportunity – goals and values she has upheld throughout her career.
Duckett joined TIAA after serving as Chief Executive Officer of Chase
Consumer Banking, where she oversaw a banking network with more than
$600 billion in deposits and 50,000 employees. Duckett serves on the
boards of NIKE, Inc., Brex Inc., Robert F. Kennedy Human Rights, Sesame
Workshop, National Medal of Honor Museum, Economic Club of New York,
University of Houston Board of Visitors and Dean’s Advisory Board for
the Baylor University’s Hankamer School of Business. She’s a member of
the Executive Leadership Council, Delta Sigma Theta Sorority Inc. and
Jack and Jill of America Inc. She holds a Bachelor’s degree in Finance
and Marketing from the University of Houston and an MBA from Baylor
University.

**Willie A. Deese**

Willie A. Deese is a retired pharmaceutical executive and corporate
board member whose career spans 5 decades.  He most recently served as
Executive Vice President of Manufacturing at Merck and Co. Inc.  He is a
graduate of North Carolina A&T State University and credits his alma
mater with providing him the foundational platform on which he was able
to build a successful career.  He is recognized for his expertise in
manufacturing and supply chain management as well as his proactive
contributions defining healthy, engaged corporate cultures, implementing
environmental and sustainability standards, DEI practices and policies,
and leadership development.  He fervently believes that when we level
the playing field by providing equitable resources and opportunities for
all, it leads to positive outcomes that have an exponential impact on
society.  Recently, North Carolina A&T named its College of Business and
Economics in his honor.

**Patrick Cokley**

Patrick Cokley works to bring issues of inclusion to the forefront of
all communities. In his role as Chief of Organizing Advocacy and
Learning at Civic Influencers, Patrick believes in the importance of
giving all young people the tools they need to be engaged citizens with
the ability to bring positive change to their communities. Patrick’s
dedication to service stems from the values he learned from his family
as well as time at an HBCU. As a graduate of Howard University, Patrick
believes that it is imperative that the disability and traditional
diversity communities learn to work together as they both share the core
values of inclusion. Only together can our communities realize the
success of an America that is inclusive of all of its citizens.
Originally from South Carolina, Patrick now makes his home in New
Jersey. In addition to being a person who is low vision, Patrick is also
the parent of two children with disabilities.

**Monica Goldson**

Dr. Monica Goldson, Chief Executive Officer for Prince George’s County
Public Schools (PGCPS), is the dedicated and dynamic leader of the 20th
largest school district in the nation. A three-time HBCU graduate, she
is committed to creating transformative experiences that propel students
to their highest levels of excellence. Dr. Goldson focuses on doing what
is best for students and educators, especially amid the challenges of
the COVID-19 pandemic. Her longtime advocacy for public education was
key in mobilizing the PGCPS community to provide laptops, internet
service and technology assistance to families in need while building
virtual learning from the ground up. Beyond the schoolhouse, she is a
member of Chiefs for Change, a graduate of Leadership Greater
Washington, and a board member of Nonprofit Prince George’s and the
Prince George’s Chamber of Commerce. Dr. Goldson holds a bachelor’s
degree in Mathematics from Florida A&M University, a master’s degree in
Elementary and Secondary School Administration from Bowie State
University, and a doctorate in Educational Administration and Policy
from Howard University. She has two adult sons, both graduates of Prince
George’s County Public Schools.

**Brett Hart**

Brett Hart is President of United Airlines and is responsible for
leading the company’s external-facing teams as well as operational
workgroups including Technical Operations, Airport Operations, Corporate
Safety, United Ground Express and Network Operations. He also oversees
business-critical functions such as the customer experience, government
affairs, corporate real estate, human resources, and labor relations
teams.  Mr. Hart previously served as executive vice president and chief
administrative officer for United.  A longtime resident of Chicago, Mr.
Hart has been extensively involved in social, cultural, and economic
causes impacting his home community.  Brett serves on the boards of
World Business Chicago, the Herbie Hancock Institute of Jazz,
Northwestern Medical Group, and the Obama Foundation Inclusion Council.
Brett received his Bachelor of Arts in philosophy and English from the
University of Michigan and a Juris Doctor from the University of Chicago
Law School. He is married and has three sons.

**Taraji P. Henson**

Academy Award-nominated and SAG and Golden Globe-winning actor,
filmmaker, and activist, Taraji P. Henson quickly rose to fame after her
breakout performance in the critically acclaimed film *Hustle & Flow.* 
In 2020, Henson wrapped her iconic run as “Cookie Lyon” in Fox’s hit
musical drama *Empire*, which has earned her three Emmy nominations, a
Golden Globe Award, a Critics Choice Award, and three BET Awards. Prior
credits include *Hidden Figures*, which won her a SAG for Best Ensemble,
and *The Curious Case of Benjamin Button* with Brad Pitt, for which she
earned an Academy Award nomination.  In Summer 2022, she has *Minions:
The Rise of Gru* and is currently in production on Blitz Bazawule’s *The
Color Purple*, where she will star as Shug Avery. Henson launched TPH
Entertainment with upcoming projects including *Two-Faced* with Bron
Entertainment, which will mark Henson’s feature film directorial debut,
Alessandro Camon’s *Time Alone*, which Henson will also star in, and
*Sorcerority*, which she will co-produce with Game Changer Films and
Gabrielle Union’s I’ll Have Another Productions. In October 2016, Henson
released her New York Times bestselling novel “Around The Way Girl.”
Henson launched the Boris Lawrence Henson Foundation in 2018 in honor of
her late father, which provides scholarships to African-American
students majoring in mental health, offers mental health services to
youth in urban schools, and works to lower the recidivism rates of
African-American men and women. Henson recently co-hosted the Facebook
Watch series on mental health called *Peace of Mind with Taraji*, for
which she received a Daytime Emmy Award nomination. In 2019, Henson
received her star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame.

**Beverly W. Hogan**

Beverly Wade Hogan has a long and distinguished career as a public
administrator, educator, community leader and humanitarian. As the first
woman to lead the historic institution, Hogan served as President at
Tougaloo College for 17 years. She retired with the distinction of
President Emerita. She had also served the College as the founding
director of the George A. and Ruth B. Owens Health, Wellness and Human
Resources Center, Vice President for Institutional Advancement and
Interim President. During her presidential tenure, she and her team
enhanced the college’s curricula with new undergraduate and graduate
degree programs and  expanded partnerships with major research
institutions for three plus two degree programs in law, engineering, and
public health; established the Undergraduate Research Center, the Center
for International Studies and Global Change, the Institute for the Study
of Modern Day Slavery, the Early College High School; and made
significant improvements in campus physical and technological
infrastructure. Prior to becoming a college president, Hogan served as
Commissioner of the Workers’ Compensation Commission; Executive Director
of the Governor’s Office of Federal State Programs; Executive Director
of the Mental Health Association. She is a national voice for higher
education, having served on the board of directors for the Council of
Independent Colleges, National Association for Independent Colleges and
Universities, NAFEO and UNCF. She was appointed by former President
Barack Obama to the Board of Advisors for the White House Initiative on
HBCUs.

**Lisa P. Jackson**

Lisa P. Jackson is Apple’s vice president of Environment, Policy and
Social Initiatives, where she leads the company’s environmental
initiatives, racial equity and justice initiative, global education
policy programs, product accessibility efforts, corporate giving and
philanthropic partnerships, and worldwide government affairs. Her work
includes driving Apple’s support for HBCUs through coding initiatives,
innovation partnerships and the launch of the Propel Center. Under
President Barack Obama, she served as Administrator of the Environmental
Protection Agency, becoming the first Black person to hold the position.
She also served as Chief of Staff to New Jersey Governor Jon S. Corzine
and as Commissioner of New Jersey’s Department of Environmental
Protection, following nearly 20 years with the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency. Lisa has been recognized as a leader in business and
sustainability by numerous publications, including Ebony’s Power 100,
Black Enterprise’s Women of Power, Essence Magazine’s 40 Women Who Have
Influenced the World lists, and Women of Color magazine. She is the
recipient of Princeton’s James Madison Medal and Tulane University’s
Distinguished Alumni Award, among others. Lisa holds a master’s degree
in Chemical Engineering from Princeton University and a bachelor’s
degree in Chemical Engineering from Tulane University. She also holds an
honorary degree from Spelman College and maintains close ties to Xavier
University in New Orleans. She serves on the boards of Tulane
University, the American Film Institute, and Conservation International
and is an honorary member of Delta Sigma Theta sorority. Lisa and her
husband Kenneth reside in San Francisco.

**Shevrin Jones**

Florida State Senator Shevrin “Shev” Jones is an educator, public
servant, and consensus builder who has dedicated his life to serving
others and building pathways to opportunity. Thanks to the encouragement
of his close-knit family and supportive teachers, Jones recognized from
a young age the power of education as the great equalizer, a foundation
that drove Shevrin into teaching to help students reach their full
potential. A proud graduate of Florida A&M University, Jones taught high
school chemistry in Broward Public Schools before founding L.E.A.D.
Nation, a South Florida nonprofit organization committed to youth
leadership development and social entrepreneurship training. Jones’
firsthand look at the inequities in education and society at large
propelled him to enter public service, and since 2013, he has served in
the Florida legislature, championing meaningful bipartisan legislation
including two consecutive bills to secure dignity for incarcerated
women; statewide expansion of a clean syringe exchange program; safety
and oversight for athletic coaches for youth athletic teams; increased
investment in underserved communities; and greater transparency and
accountability for law enforcement. The first LGBTQ State Senator
elected in Florida history, Jones served on President Barack Obama’s
College Promise Task Force and is an active member of the Alpha Phi
Alpha Fraternity Inc., Young Elected Officials Network, and Millennial
Action Project’s Florida Future Caucus. Today, Jones is completing his
Ph.D. in Educational Leadership at Florida Atlantic University.

**Walter M. Kimbrough**

A native of Atlanta, Dr. Walter M. Kimbrough was his high school
salutatorian and student bodypresident, and went on to earn degrees from
the University of Georgia, Miami University in Ohio, and a doctorate in
higher education from Georgia State University. He has enjoyed a
fulfilling career in student affairs, serving at Emory University,
Georgia State University, Old Dominion University, and Albany State
University. In October of 2004, at the age of 37, he was named the 12th
President of Philander Smith College. In 2012, he became the 7th
President of Dillard University in New Orleans, Louisiana. Kimbrough has
been recognized for his research and writings on HBCUs and African
American men in college. Recently he has emerged as one of the leaders
discussing free speech on college campuses. Kimbrough also has been
noted for his active use of social media. He was cited by Education Dive
as one of 10 college presidents on Twitter who are doing it right and
was profiled in the text, “Digital Leadership In Higher Education.” In
2020 he was named by College Cliffs as one of 50 Top U.S. College and
University Presidents.

**William F. L. Moses**

William F. L. Moses serves as Managing Director for the Kresge
Foundation’s Education Program, which supports postsecondary access and
success for low-income, first-generation and underrepresented students
in the United States and South Africa. The key architect of Kresge’s
education programming, Bill leads the team’s continuum of grant
activities and for more than 20 years has awarded grants to HBCUs and
MSIs, including UNCF, Thurgood Marshall College Fund, Spelman College,
Morehouse College, Paul Quinn College, Delaware State University,
Jackson State University, and Xavier University, among others. Prior to
joining Kresge, Bill served as Executive Director of the Thomas J.
Watson Foundation, a Senior Analyst at the Investor Responsibility
Research Center, a research officer at TechnoServe, and in various
positions at the Alaska State Legislature, and the federal government,
including the U.S. Embassy in Cape Town, South Africa. A graduate of
Claremont McKenna College, Bill holds a master’s degree in international
relations from Yale University, and is the author of *A Guide to
American State and Local Laws on South Africa* and co-author of
*Corporate Responsibility in a Changing South Africa*.  Bill currently
serves on the advisory committees or boards of the Africa Grantmakers’
Affinity Group, APIA Scholars, California Community Colleges
Chancellor’s External Leadership Council, College Promise, Detroit
College Access Network, and the Seal of Excelencia. 

**Christopher Paul**

Christopher “Chris” Paul is a twelve-time NBA All-Star with the Phoenix
Suns, two-time Olympic Gold medalist and is listed as one of the NBA’s
75 greatest players in NBA history. Off the court, he’s a father,
husband, entrepreneur, activist, and philanthropist. His leadership and
impact are well noted in the sports industry as he recently ended an
eight-year tenure as the President of the National Basketball Players
Association. His advocacy for Historically Black Colleges and
Universities (HBCUs) is extremely important and through his Chris Paul
Family Foundation, he has actively expanded a Business of Entertainment
Media and Sports special topics course at NC A& T, Southern University,
Winston Salem State and Clark Atlanta University.  His production
company, Ohh Dip!!! creates content across multiple platforms, which
includes the Why Not Us franchise of shows with NC Central Men’s
Basketball and FAMU Football. Paul co-launched the Social Change Fund
United dedicated to investing in and supporting organizations focused on
empowering communities of color and advocating for the human rights of
all black lives. His philanthropic efforts have earned him the 2016
ESPYs “Humanitarian of the Year” award, 2016 Mannie Jackson Human Spirit
Award, the NBA Community Assist Award five times, and most recently the
inaugural Kobe and Gigi Bryant Advocacy Award for his significant
contributions to the advancement of girls’ and women’s basketball and
advocacy for the WNBA.

**Quinton T. Ross Jr.**

Dr. Quinton T. Ross, Jr., is entering his fifth year as President of
Alabama State University, having assumed the leadership role at his alma
mater on October 3, 2017. His tenure has been marked by transformative
and innovative leadership that has included a 130 percent increase in
fundraising, expansion of national and global partnerships, advancement
of strategic initiatives under the brand of “CommUniversity,” and an
increased emphasis on student success. President Ross is a three-time
graduate of Alabama State University, where he earned a Bachelor of
Science degree in Political Science, a Master of Education degree in
Secondary Education English, and a Doctorate of Education in Educational
Leadership, Policy, and Law. Dr. Ross is a distinguished career educator
with more than 28 years of experience in Higher and K-12 public
education. Prior to becoming the University’s 15th President, Dr. Ross
served with distinction as a senator in the Alabama Legislature for four
terms.

**Ruth J. Simmons**

Ruth J. Simmons is President of Prairie View A&M University. Prior to
joining Prairie View, she served as President of Smith College from 1995
to 2001 and President of Brown University from 2001 to 2012. She holds a
Bachelor’s degree from Dillard University and a Ph.D. in Romance
Languages and Literatures from Harvard University. Simmons serves on the
Council of the Smithsonian National Museum of History and Culture and
the Board of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, Houston Branch.

**Janeen Uzzell**

Janeen Uzzell is the Chief Executive Officer at the National Society of
Black Engineers (NSBE), the largest Black STEM community impacting
society and industry. In her former role as the Chief Operating Officer
for the Wikimedia Foundation, which operates Wikipedia, Janeen drove
process improvement and helped launch the Wikimedia Knowledge Equity
Fund to address racial inequities in free knowledge. For nearly two
decades, she held various roles at General Electric, working in
healthcare technologies in some of the world’s most challenging
environments. As the head of Women in Technology, she accelerated the
number of women in technical roles. Her previous roles at GE included
Global Director of External Affairs and Technology Programs, Director of
Healthcare Programs at GE Africa (where Janeen lived for several years
as an Ex-Pat in Accra, Ghana), Director of Global Healthcare Programs,
Director of Healthcare Disparity Programs, and Director of Service
Operations. She is a recipient of numerous awards, including the United
Nations Global Leadership Award and one of ADWEEK’s Top Black Women
Trailblazers in Tech. Janeen received her Bachelor of Science in
mechanical engineering from North Carolina Agricultural and Technical
State University, and an MBA in International Business from Fairleigh
Dickinson University. Janeen fuses her passion for social justice and
her leadership to shine light on inequality in tech spaces and forge
opportunities for others. In her spare time, she enjoys playing tennis
and spending time with her family and friends in Washington, D.C.

**\###**
