---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2022-03-03'
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/03/03/a-message-to-the-congress-on-the-continuation-of-the-national-emergency-with-respect-to-zimbabwe/
published_time: 2022-03-03 11:17:32-05:00
title: "A Message to the Congress on the Continuation of the National Emergency with\
  \ Respect to\_Zimbabwe"
---
 
TO THE CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES:

Section 202(d) of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d))
provides for the automatic termination of a national emergency unless,
within 90 days prior to the anniversary date of its declaration, the
President publishes in the *Federal Register* and transmits to the
Congress a notice stating that the emergency is to continue in effect
beyond the anniversary date.  In accordance with this provision, I have
sent to the *Federal Register* for publication the enclosed notice
stating that the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13288 of
March 6, 2003, with respect to the actions and policies of certain
members of the Government of Zimbabwe and other persons to undermine
Zimbabwe’s democratic processes or institutions is to continue in effect
beyond March 6, 2022. 

President Emmerson Mnangagwa has not made the necessary political and
economic reforms that would warrant terminating the existing targeted
sanctions program.  Throughout the last year, government security
services routinely intimidated and violently repressed citizens,
including members of opposition political parties, union members, and
journalists.  The absence of progress on the most fundamental reforms
needed to ensure the rule of law, democratic governance, and the
protection of human rights leaves Zimbabweans vulnerable to ongoing
repression and presents a continuing threat to peace and security in the
region.

The actions and policies of certain members of the Government of
Zimbabwe and other persons to undermine Zimbabwe’s democratic processes
or institutions continue to pose an unusual and extraordinary threat to
the foreign policy of the United States.  Therefore, I have determined
that it is necessary to continue the national emergency declared in
Executive Order 13288, as amended, with respect to Zimbabwe and to
maintain in force the sanctions to respond to this threat.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

THE WHITE HOUSE,

    March 3, 2022. 
