---
category: statements-releases
date: '2022-03-07'
modified_time: 2022-03-07 08:56:52-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/03/07/fact-sheet-vice-president-harris-announces-actions-to-accelerate-clean-transit-buses-school-buses-and-trucks/
published_time: 2022-03-07 11:30:00-05:00
title: 'Fact Sheet: Vice President Harris Announces Actions to Accelerate Clean Transit
  Buses, School Buses, and Trucks'
---
 
*New Actions Will Deliver Cleaner Air, Healthier Neighborhoods, and
Better Transportation*

Today, Vice President Kamala Harris is announcing major federal actions
that will expand clean public transit and school buses, reduce emissions
from dirty diesel trucks, and create good-paying jobs. The Biden-Harris
Administration will modernize public transit that connects people to
their jobs, school, health care, and loved ones, freight trucks and
ports that move goods through the American economy, and the iconic
American yellow buses that bring children safely to school leveraging
investments from the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and American Rescue
Plan investments, as well as a new proposed rule that would set
heavy-duty vehicle emissions standards. Together, these actions will
deliver better transportation for the American people while reducing air
pollution that has long overburdened low-income communities and
communities of color. They also boost American leadership on the
zero-emissions transit, trucking, and port technologies of the future—to
create good-paying, union jobs, improve public health, and confront
climate change. 

Heavy-duty vehicles, like buses and trucks, make up nearly one-quarter
of all U.S. transportation greenhouse gas emissions, and heavy-duty
vehicles are the largest contributor of nitrogen oxides (NOx)—air
pollution that is known to cause asthma, heart and lung disease, and
other serious respiratory issues. Neighborhoods near highways, ports,
and other congested areas are especially impacted by health problems and
premature deaths associated with dirty diesel exhaust. These burdens
disproportionately impact people of color and low-income households.  
  
To seize new economic opportunities and address these environmental
injustices and climate concerns, while expanding public transit and
ensuring efficient delivery of goods, the Administration is announcing a
fleet of new and expanded actions to advance clean heavy-duty vehicles,
as part of our electric, zero-emissions transportation future:

-   **Cleaner, More Convenient Public Transit:** The Bipartisan
    Infrastructure Law represents the single largest investment in
    public transit in history. As part of the historic $5.5 billion
    expansion of the Low- and No-Emission Transit Vehicle Program, the
    Department of Transportation (DOT) is announcing $1.1 billion in
    funding for 2022 and an additional $372 million under the Bus and
    Bus Facilities program. The Low-No Program helps state and local
    governments purchase U.S.-built electric transit buses and other
    cleaner models, to improve local air quality and expand affordable,
    accessible, transportation options in communities across the
    country. The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law increased Low-No program
    funding by ten times, compared to the prior five years.  Also, as a
    result of changes enacted in the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, the
    grants will dedicate funding to workforce training that helps
    protect and upskill transit workers – ensuring that those who work
    on transit vehicles today are ready to do so in the future. To keep
    transit workers on the job and transit services running, DOT is also
    announcing $2.2 billion in funding to 35 transit agencies across 18
    states through the American Rescue Plan.  
-   **Saving Lives, Reducing Emissions:** The Environmental Protection
    Agency (EPA) is issuing a proposed rule that would, if finalized,
    dramatically reduce harmful nitrogen oxides (NOx) emissions from
    heavy-duty vehicles and set stronger greenhouse gas emissions
    standards for certain heavy-duty vehicle categories. This proposed
    rule would ensure heavy-duty vehicles and engines are as clean as
    possible while helping jump-start the transition to zero-emission
    vehicles in the heavy-duty fleet. When fully implemented, this rule
    will save roughly 2,000 lives annually, eliminate 18,000 cases of
    childhood asthma, and lead to 1.1 million fewer missed days of
    school.  
-   **Electrifying School Buses:** The Environmental Protection Agency
    is awarding $17 million to fund electric zero-emission and
    low-emission school buses. Through the American Rescue Plan, $7
    million is being awarded to replace old diesel school buses in
    underserved communities with new, zero-emission electric buses. In
    addition, $10 million is being awarded to replace old diesel school
    buses with new cleaner buses through the Diesel Emissions Reduction
    Act (DERA) School Bus Rebate Program. This funding complements the
    $5 billion in funding from the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law for
    clean school buses, the first tranche of which will become available
    in the coming months.  
-   **Lower Emissions from Ports:** The Department of Transportation is
    using new project eligibilities in the Port Infrastructure
    Development Program – which is now funded at the highest levels ever
    through the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law – to advance clean port
    equipment like electric vehicle charging infrastructure for drayage
    trucks, cargo equipment, and harbor craft. [Grant
    applicants](https://www.maritime.dot.gov/PIDPgrants) are encouraged
    to submit projects that reduce emissions, strengthen resilience,
    improve air quality in fenceline communities, and plan for the
    zero-emission ports of the future.  
-   **Innovation on Clean Trucks of the Future:** The Department of
    Energy is partnering with industry to expand zero-emission truck
    technology through its SuperTruck 3 Program, with the latest round
    of $127 million in funding focused for the first time on reducing
    costs and improving durability in hydrogen and battery electric
    trucks.  
-   **Leading by Example:** The General Services Administration is
    doubling the amount of zero-emission medium and heavy-duty vehicle
    models available to federal agencies, charging towards 100% zero
    emission vehicle acquisitions by 2035.

These steps build upon President Biden’s Executive Order on
Strengthening American Leadership in Clean Cars and Trucks, which he
[signed](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/08/05/fact-sheet-president-biden-announces-steps-to-drive-american-leadership-forward-on-clean-cars-and-trucks/)
in August 2021 alongside American automakers and autoworkers, launching
development of smart fuel efficiency and emissions standards across all
vehicles. President Biden and Vice President Harris also secured
historic investments in clean transportation through the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law and American Rescue Plan. The announcement today of
$1.1 billion for clean transit buses through the $5 billion Lo-No
Program expansion, $17 million for clean school buses, and the ongoing
buildout of a national EV charging network will transform bus transit
from city centers to rural towns – improving connectivity and quality of
life – while contributing to President Biden’s goal to reduce greenhouse
gas emissions by 50-52% compared to 2005 levels by 2030.  
  
Together, today’s actions will:  
  
**Electrify Our Buses**  
To accelerate our transition to clean public transit, over $5.5 billion
is being infused into the Department of Transportation’s popular Low-
and No-Emission Transit Vehicle Program through the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law – by far the largest ever investment in this program,
and ten times larger than the last five years of funding. The Low-No
Program helps state and local governments purchase or lease
zero-emission and low-emission transit buses and other vehicles and
expand or retrofit supporting facilities. These include vehicles that
use technologies such as battery electric and fuel-cell power to provide
clean, quieter, and more efficient transit service in communities across
the country. In 2022, $1.1 billion will be granted to clean and
electrify transit buses – representing almost a billion dollars in new
investment compared to last year. This comes on top of nearly $2 billion
over five years, and $372 million in 2022, provided in the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law for the Buses and Bus Facilities Competitive Program
to be used in part for low or no emissions bus projects.  The clean
buses purchased by these grants will be made here in the United States,
creating manufacturing jobs in places like Minnesota, Alabama, South
Carolina, and California.  
  
Also, the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law provides the first-ever
dedicated investment in our transit workforce to support the transition
to new clean technologies like battery electric buses.  Five percent of
grants under the program – up to $280 million over five years – will be
used to fund workforce development training, including registered
apprenticeships and other labor-management training programs, to train
and upskill transit workers to maintain and operate zero emission
vehicles and related charging infrastructure.  
  
To keep all of these buses running – along with our country’s trains,
ferries and other transit services – the Department of Transportation is
also announcing $2.2 billion in grants to 35 transit agencies across 18
states. These funds are made available through President Biden’s
American Rescue Plan and will help public transit agencies pay for
day-to-day operations, keep tens of thousands of employees on the
payroll, and provide essential transportation services to workers across
America.  
  
The EPA is also moving to deploy more clean school buses – awarding $17
million in rebates to fund electric zero-emission and low-emission
school buses. Through the American Rescue Plan, $7 million is being
awarded to replace old diesel school buses with new, zero-emission
electric buses. These funds are reserved exclusively for school
districts in underserved communities, tribal schools, and the private
fleets serving those schools. In addition, the EPA awarded $10 million
to replace old diesel school buses with new electric, diesel, gasoline,
propane, or compressed natural gas buses through longstanding Diesel
Emissions Reduction Act (DERA) School Bus Rebates. Later this year,
major new investments funded by the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law’s new
$5 billion clean school bus program will allow EPA to greatly expand the
impacts of clean school bus deployment.  
  
**Reduce Truck Emissions, Save Lives**  
Today, the EPA announced a proposed rule that would reduce NOx emissions
from new trucks by up to 90% by 2031 compared to today’s standards. The
current regulations set under the Clean Air Act for trucks were last
updated over 20 years ago. However, trucks meeting this standard are
still major sources of NOx and other harmful pollutants.  
  
All traditional truck engines combust fuel which leads to creation of
NOx – a harmful pollutant and precursor to the formation of smog and
particulates. This pollution makes it difficult to breathe, triggers
asthma and other lung diseases and is associated with premature death.
These harmful conditions disproportionately impact low-income
communities and communities of color. Without the actions taken today
and the resulting shift to low- and zero-emission vehicles, these
communities will continue to bear the brunt of these emissions.  
  
When this rule is fully implemented, there will be numerous benefits to
communities around the country, including:

-   **Lives Saved:** Roughly 2,000 premature deaths avoided and 6,700
    fewer hospital and ER visits each year;
-   **Healthy School Kids**: 18,000 fewer cases of childhood asthma and
    1.1 million fewer missed days of school each year;
-   **Productive Communities**: 78,000 fewer missed days of work each
    year.

In addition to strengthening NOx regulations, EPA and DOT are preparing
to redouble the Administration’s commitment to zero-emissions trucks by
using the upcoming Heavy-Duty GHG Phase 3 Program to set ambitious
greenhouse gas and efficiency standards beginning in 2030. Because costs
have fallen and state and local policy will drive deployment,
zero-emission trucks and buses are entering the market much faster than
anticipated when rules were previously set. To account for this, EPA is
considering technical updates to its standards for model years 2027 to
2029 to better reflect new levels of market penetration in segments with
expected zero-emission vehicle deployment.   
  
**Clean Our Port Operations**  
The ports on our coasts, rivers, and Great Lakes will need to be
transformed to eliminate pollution affecting neighboring communities,
address climate change, and strengthen supply chain resilience. This
includes a focus on reducing emissions from heavy-duty road vehicles and
rail that play key roles in port operations.  
  
The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law provides the largest investment ever
in the [DOT’s Port Infrastructure Development
Program](https://www.transportation.gov/briefing-room/president-biden-and-us-department-transportation-announce-historic-new-funding)
– with the expansion designed to advance the Administration’s climate
and environmental justice goals. Grant applicants are encouraged to
submit projects that reduce emissions, strengthen resilience, and
improve air quality in fenceline communities. These investments will
touch all points of port operations – cleaning cargo handling equipment,
harbor craft, and building out needed charging infrastructure for
drayage trucks. The program also encourages master planning for port
electrification and grid upgrades. In addition, the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law funded DOT to issue new grants to reduce truck idling
and emissions at ports, including through the advancement of port
electrification, which will complement other port investments.  
  
**Catalyze Zero Emission Truck Infrastructure  
**Through the President’s Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, the Departments
of Energy and Transportation are making significant investments in
updating the nation’s trucking fleets and freight infrastructure to be
cleaner and more efficient.  
  
To spur investment in zero emission trucks, the Federal Transit
Administration, in conjunction with the Federal Highway Administration,
is helping states purchase medium and heavy-duty vehicles through the
Congestion Mitigation and Air Quality Program. DOE’s Loan Program Office
has been given expanded authority for manufacturing of clean medium and
heavy-duty on-road vehicles as well as vehicles and components in the
aviation, maritime, and rail sectors, pending future appropriations.  
  
To advance the build-out of our nation’s network of 500,000 EV chargers,
DOT’s recent EV charging guidance to states includes eligibility to
support charging infrastructure for trucks. Given the unique needs of
medium- and heavy-duty vehicles, DOE’s Sustainable Transportation
offices are studying how to advance clean, affordable hydrogen and
electrification corridor solutions to connect ports, highways, and end
users, and provide clean freight solutions to move goods and materials
from first mile to the last.  
  
**Accelerate Path Towards Zero-Emission Trucks**  
Through major advances in zero-emissions technology, clean trucks are
becoming cheaper and more readily available. Today, the National
Renewable Energy Lab published a study showing that zero emission
electric medium and heavy-duty trucks can reach total-cost-of-driving
parity with diesel counterparts for many vehicle types this decade and
for all trucks by 2035. As technology continues to improve, and more
infrastructure is deployed, more and more clean trucks will become
cost-effective. That’s good for business and good for the planet.  
  
In order to continue to drive down costs, the Department of Energy is
investing in trucking innovation and next generation clean technologies.
In 2009, DOE launched its SuperTruck Initiative to partner with industry
to improve heavy-duty truck freight efficiency by 50%. This year,
SuperTruck 3 is off to the races with a combined $127 million in funding
to industry focused on reducing costs and improving durability in
zero-emission hydrogen and battery electric trucks. In addition, its
SuperTruck 2 Program is set to conclude this year having developed
cost-effective technology that doubles the fuel economy for 18-wheeler
trucks.  
  
Multiple other research projects across government and industry are
targeting progress in fuel cell electric trucks, batteries, and freight
efficiency, including:

-   Advanced Research on Integrated Energy Systems (ARIES) – providing a
    real world environment for testing large battery and fuel cell
    electric trucks.
-   Million Mile Fuel Cell Truck consortium – developing cost-effective
    technology with industry for next generation fuel cells.
-   21<sup>st</sup> Century Truck Partnership – launching a new
    electrification tech team focused on removing barriers to wide-scale
    truck electrification and deploying technology to improve freight
    efficiency.

**Transform the Federal Truck Fleet**  
This Administration is leading by example – acting as an early adopter
by transforming its federal fleet of over 110,000 medium- and heavy-duty
vehicles. \[1\] Today, federal agencies are able to acquire 38 different
models of medium and heavy duty zero emissions vehicles through the
General Services Administration – more than double the offerings in
fiscal year 2021. The President’s Federal Sustainability Plan, outlined
in [Executive Order
14057](https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2021/12/13/2021-27114/catalyzing-clean-energy-industries-and-jobs-through-federal-sustainability),
also calls for 100% of all annual medium and heavy-duty vehicle
acquisitions to be zero emissions by 2035.  
  
The federal government will work with American vehicle, battery, and
charging equipment manufacturers and installers to transform its truck
fleet. This will accelerate the advancement of America’s industrial
capacity to supply zero-emission trucks and electric batteries –
creating and sustaining good-paying, union jobs in manufacturing,
engineering, and skilled trades. This federal truck transformation
complements the Administration’s commitment to 100% zero-emission
light-duty vehicle acquisitions by 2027.  
 

\###

------------------------------------------------------------------------

\[1\] (Non-Postal)
