---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2022-03-17'
modified_time: 2022-03-18 09:32:54-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/03/17/president-biden-announces-key-regional-appointments-for-usda-fema-and-hud-2/
published_time: 2022-03-17 16:00:00-04:00
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key Regional Appointments for USDA, FEMA, and\_\
  HUD"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden appointed the following
individuals to serve in key regional leadership roles at the United
States Department of Agriculture (USDA), the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) at the Department of Homeland Security, and the
Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD):

-   Julia Wickard, USDA State Executive Director, Farm Service Agency,
    Indiana
-   Jeffrey Holmes, USDA State Executive Director, Farm Service Agency,
    New Hampshire
-   Steve Dick, USDA State Executive Director, Farm Service Agency,
    South Dakota
-   Deidre Deculus Robert, USDA State Director, Rural Development,
    Louisiana
-   Lucas Ingvoldstad, USDA State Director, Rural Development, Nevada
-   Erin Oban, USDA State Director, Rural Development, North Dakota
-   Nikki Gronli, USDA State Director, Rural Development, South Dakota
-   Perry Hickman, USDA State Director, Rural Development, Virginia
-   Ryan Thorn, USDA State Director, Rural Development, West Virginia
-   Thomas Sivak, FEMA Regional Administrator, Region 5
-   Juana Matias, HUD Regional Administrator, Region 1
-   Candace Valenzuela, HUD Regional Administrator, Region 6

These regional appointees will be critical to the President’s efforts to
rebuild communities most impacted by the pandemic, the economic
recovery, and climate change. They bring deep expertise in their issue
areas as well as critical relationships with federal, state, tribal, and
local leaders. And, consistent with the President’s commitment to
building an administration that looks like America, these regional
appointees represent the diversity of America and the communities they
serve.****

**<u>UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (USDA)</u>**

The USDA’s Farm Service Agency implements agricultural policy,
administers credit and loan programs, and manages conservation,
commodity, disaster, and farm marketing programs in each U.S. State. Its
mission is to equitably serve all farmers, ranchers, and agricultural
partners through the delivery of effective, efficient agricultural
programs for all Americans. State Executive Directors oversee this work,
ensuring the needs of local constituents are met and that USDA resources
are distributed equitably and fairly.

USDA’s Rural Development mission area is committed to helping improve
the economy and quality of life in rural America. State Directors lead
offices that offer grants, loans, and loan guarantees to help create
jobs and support economic development and essential services.

**<u>Julia Wickard, USDA State Executive Director, Farm Service Agency,
Indiana</u>**

Hailing from her family’s Hoosier homesteaded livestock and row-crop
farm, Julia A. Wickard, her husband, and two children own and operate
Wickard Livestock where they raise registered Angus cattle and Boer
goats. Wickard embarked on a journey with the State of Indiana at the
Indiana Department of Environmental Management (IDEM) in April of 2017
as the Government Affairs Director and Agricultural Liaison. Just a few
short months following her arrival at IDEM, she was appointed as
Assistant Commissioner in the Office of Program Support, while also
maintaining her Agricultural Liaison role. Prior to IDEM, she served for
eight years as the Indiana State Executive Director of the U.S.
Department of Agriculture’s Farm Service Agency (FSA) where she led over
300 employees in 75 county offices in administering federal agricultural
programs. She served as the Executive Vice President of the Indiana Beef
Cattle Association, Chief Operating and Marketing Officer and
Environmental and Natural Resources Director at the Indiana Farm Bureau
Inc., and was the Environmental and Natural Resources Director in the
Office of the Commissioner of Agriculture. She has worked for the
Indiana Association of Soil and Water Conservation Districts, Inc. and
served two members of Congress.

Wickard is a graduate of AgrIInstitute’s Indiana Agricultural Leadership
Program and currently chairs the board of directors. She is a recipient
of Indiana’s highest honor from the Governor of the State, the Sagamore
of the Wabash, and in 2019 was recognized as a Purdue University
Agricultural Sciences Education and Communication Distinguished Alumni.
Wickard is active in her community and enjoys spending time with family
and exhibiting cattle and goats in the state and across the country.

**<u>Jeffrey Holmes, USDA State Executive Director, Farm Service Agency,
New Hampshire</u>**

Jeffrey Holmes is a fifth-generation farmer from Langdon, New Hampshire
on property owned by the family since 1873. The farm was home to
registered jersey cattle for over 80 years. Commodities currently
produced on the farm include hay, corn, maple, timber, and firewood.
Holmes’ public service includes 22 years on the New Hampshire Farm
Bureau (NHFB) Board of Directors with eight years as NHFB President, 15
years as the Langdon town moderator, FSA county committee member, and
County Executive Director in the Cheshire-Sullivan County office. Holmes
and his wife Lisa are the proud parents of two adult children, and are
enjoying the arrival of a grandson born in 2021.

**<u>Steve Dick, USDA State Executive Director, Farm Service Agency,
South Dakota</u>** ****

Steve Dick has served as the Executive Director of Ag United for South
Dakota since January 2005. Within this capacity he worked with the South
Dakota Farm Bureau, South Dakota Cattlemen, South Dakota Pork Producers,
South Dakota Soybeans, South Dakota Corn Growers, South Dakota Dairy
Producers, and the South Dakota Poultry Industries Association to
organize events and activities connecting consumers with South Dakota
farm and ranch families. Before joining Ag United, Dick served on
Senator Tom Daschle’s (D-SD) staff for a total of ten years in South
Dakota and Washington, DC. In his last position with Senator Daschle, he
served as the Agriculture Outreach Coordinator.

A native of southeastern South Dakota, Dick operates his family’s farm
near Canistota in McCook County where he grows corn and soybeans and
feeds cattle. He has served on the boards for East Dakota Water
Development District, South Dakota Ag Foundation, East Dakota Education
Foundation, Sioux Valley Energy Operation Round-Up, and the West Central
School District. He is a graduate of the University of South Dakota.
Dick and his wife, Jeanne, reside in Hartford and are the parents to two
children, Truman, a student at the University of South Dakota, and
Eleanor, a student at West Central High School.

**<u>Deidre Deculus Robert, USDA State Director, Rural Development,
Louisiana</u>**

Deidre Deculus Robert was born and raised in rural Mamou, Louisiana. She
has been immersed in agriculture and rural development her entire life;
her mother retired from the U.S. Department of Agriculture and father
served on the Farm Services Agency State Committee. Robert has over two
decades of legal, administrative, and executive management experience.
Her legal career began in the Parish Attorney’s Office of the City of
Baton Rouge-Parish of East Baton Rouge as an assistant city prosecutor.
During her 11 years with the City-Parish, she advanced to become the
first female African American section chief. She worked for over six
years as an assistant attorney general with the Louisiana Department of
Justice, where she served as deputy director of the Public Protection
Division, deputy director of the Litigation Division, and special
litigation counsel assigned to defend the Louisiana Judiciary.

Recently, Robert served as the executive counsel for the Louisiana
Department of Transportation and Development. Her responsibilities
included managing legislative affairs on the federal, state, and local
levels and supervising the innovative procurement/alternative delivery,
and human resources of the agency. She collaborated with state and local
partners advance infrastructure needs including rail, broadband, and
bridges throughout the state. Previously, Robert served as general
counsel of the Southern University and A&M College System, the only HBCU
college system in the country. Robert has focused her passion for
service with the Louisiana State Bar Association Diversity Committee and
House of Delegates; the Louisiana Bar Foundation as a fellow and board
member; the Louis A. Martinet Legal Society; Junior League of Baton
Rouge; Arts Council of Greater Baton Rouge, and more. She and her
husband James reside on their ranch in Glynn, Louisiana with their two
sons.

**<u>Lucas Ingvoldstad, USDA State Director, Rural Development,
Nevada</u>**

A native Nevadan born and raised in Reno, Lucas Ingvoldstad attended the
University of Nevada, Reno where he earned his Master of Science degree
in Land Use Planning Policy in 2011 and a Bachelor of Arts in Psychology
in 2005. In 2016, Ingvoldstad was acknowledged as the Young Alumni of
Year by the College of Science and Mackay School of Earth Sciences.

Ingvoldstad’s professional experience includes public policy, public
affairs, legislative relations, stakeholder engagement, and business
development. Ingvoldstad previously served as the Senior Director of
Government and External Affairs for Eolus North America, a utility-scale
renewable energy developer focusing on solar, wind, and battery storage
projects throughout the Mountain West. Ingvoldstad directed legislative
and regulatory strategies and closely engaged with elected officials and
administrators to promote renewable energy development, to combat
climate change and promote economic development.

  
Before joining Eolus, Ingvoldstad served as a senior advisor to U.S.
Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-NV), where he focused on energy,
agriculture, and natural resource issues. Ingvoldstad was responsible
for regularly communicating with Nevadans and stakeholders on issues
relating to energy, public lands, water, natural resources, and economic
development, and worked directly with Native American tribes.
Ingvoldstad developed strategic outreach initiatives by collaborating
with local governments, industry, nonprofit organizations, and advocacy
groups, and played a key role in organizing the Lake Tahoe Summits and
the National Clean Energy Summits. In Ingvoldstad spare time, he loves
spending time with family, is an avid cyclist, and enjoys being
outdoors, backyard gardening, and cooking.

**<u>Erin Oban, USDA State Director, Rural Development, North
Dakota</u>**

Erin Oban grew up in a farm family in Ray, North Dakota, a small, rural
community in the heart of Bakken oil country. Oban moved to Bismarck to
further her education and received a bachelor’s degree in Mathematics
Education at the University of Mary. Oban’s professional career began as
a middle school math and technology teacher before gaining experience in
nonprofit management, politics, and public service. She is currently
employed as the Director of Community Engagement with the Central
Regional Education Association where she supports efficiencies and
effectiveness in education through partnerships between school districts
and local, regional, and statewide organizations and agencies to provide
programs and services for the students, families, and educators in their
communities.

Oban was elected in 2014 and re-elected in 2018 to represent central
Bismarck’s District 35 in the North Dakota State Senate. Oban has become
an effective and respected leader, rising most recently to the position
of Assistant Senate Minority Leader. Throughout her two terms in the
legislature, she has served on the Senate’s Education, Energy and
Natural Resources, Agriculture, Government and Veterans Affairs, and
Political Subdivisions Committees. Oban has been thrice elected by her
peers to serve on the powerful Legislative Management Committee and was
twice appointed with bipartisan support as chairwoman of the
legislature’s Interim Education Policy Committees. Her leadership in the
Senate on issues of importance has been recognized by many local and
statewide associations. Oban makes her home in Bismarck with her
husband, Chad, and their 5-year-old son, Evin.

**<u>Nikki Gronli, USDA State Director, Rural Development, South
Dakota</u>**

Nikki Gronli grew up in Aurora, South Dakota. She received her Bachelor
of Science degree from the University of Minnesota, and began her career
in advertising and marketing in Minneapolis. She returned to South
Dakota in 2001 and continued to work on some of the best-known brands in
the region, including South Dakota Tourism. Gronli will be leaving her
role as Marketing Specialist at SDN Communications where she oversaw the
brand, traditional marketing, and educational events. This professional
experience helped her achieve board positions with Dakota State
University’s Cybersecurity Industry Advisory Board and formerly,
President of the Department of Defense STARBASE program. In her current
role, Gronli has been an advocate for broadband expansion in South
Dakota. Gronli understands extending critical broadband infrastructure
to under-served communities and tribal areas is key to diversifying
South Dakota’s economy.

Gronli is active in her community through numerous board and committee
positions such as Minnehaha County Housing Redevelopment Committee,
Siouxland Heritage Museum Board, and LEAD South Dakota, and recently
served as vice chair of the South Dakota Democratic Party and chair of
the Minnehaha County Democratic Party. Gronli and her husband Brian live
in the rural Dell Rapids area, where they raised their four now-grown
children. They are proud grandparents of two. In their downtime, they
enjoy travel, hiking, and fishing – even in the winter.

**<u>Perry Hickman, USDA State Director, Rural Development,
Virginia</u>**

Perry M. Hickman grew up in Tappahannock, Virginia and still resides in
this small rural community. Hickman is a 1985 graduate of Virginia
Commonwealth University and received a Bachelor of Science Degree in
Business Administration and Management with a concentration in Real
Estate and Urban Land Development.

Hickman has more than 20 years of combined sales experience in mortgage
lending and telecommunications services. Hickman started his federal
career with USDA Rural Development in April 2008, and he has primarily
worked in the Rural Development Community Programs division to assist
rural municipalities, non-profit corporations, and Tribal entities that
seek federal financial assistance to enhance their ability to provide
essential services for the orderly development of a rural community.
Hickman has been a Rural Development National Office Senior Loan
Specialist where he planned Public, Private, Partnership (P3) events
with commercial lenders and other private sector partners. Annually,
these P3 events accounted for obligating more than $200 million of
congressionally appropriated funds through the Rural Development
Community Facilities Direct Loan Program. As the Virginia Community
Programs Director, Mr. Hickman managed a $750 million portfolio.

**<u>Ryan Thorn, USDA State Director, Rural Development, West
Virginia</u>**

Born, raised, and educated in West Virginia, Ryan Thorn grew up the son
of a coal miner and learned early in life the importance of hard work,
serving others, and dedication to creating opportunities for rural
communities. Thorn has 15 years of professional experience in the
private and public sectors, working in the fields of public and
government affairs and economic development. He previously served more
than five years as Economic Development Manager for the Office of U.S.
Senator Joe Manchin III (D-WV). In this role, he worked with local,
state, and federal stakeholders to attract new and expand existing
businesses, strengthen public infrastructure, develop a skilled and
ready workforce, and create economically diverse and resilient
communities across the state. Thorn is the first in his immediate family
to graduate from college and is an advocate for lifelong learning. He
holds a master’s degree from West Virginia University, a bachelor’s
degree from West Virginia Wesleyan College, and is a board member of the
Southern West Virginia Community and Technical College Foundation.

**<u>FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (FEMA)</u>**  
Regional Administrators lead FEMA’s 10 Regional offices and coordinate
directly with the FEMA Administrator to support state, local, tribal,
and territorial (SLTT) communities in their geographic area of
operations delivering frontline services across the spectrum of
preparedness, mitigation, response, recovery, and continuity
programs. The Regional Administrators play a critical role in delivering
timely, efficient, effective, and accessible federal assistance.

**<u>Thomas Sivak, FEMA Regional Administrator, Region 5</u>**

Thomas Sivak serves as the Deputy Director of Operations for Cook
County, Illinois Department of Emergency Management and Regional
Security. Sivak’s key areas of emphasis are preparedness, planning,
logistical response capabilities, information sharing and operational
coordination across 135 municipalities. Throughout Sivak’s 15-year
emergency management and public safety career, he has proudly served
both private and public sector organizations. He is skilled in and
recognized as a subject matter expert in safety, security, emergency
management, disaster relief, pandemic response, and coordination.

Throughout his career, Sivak has served in leadership roles during major
Emergency Operations Center and incident management activations as a
result of major incidents and events. These include the 2012 Super Bowl,
2018 Mercy Hospital Active Shooter Incident, COVID-19 pandemic, civil
unrest in May and August 2020, and Presidential Election Consequence
Management. Sivak is a Certified Emergency Manager through the
International Association of Emergency Managers and a graduate of the
Executive Leadership Program at the Naval Postgraduate School Center for
Homeland Defense and Security. He holds a Master of Science in Public
Service Leadership from DePaul University, a Bachelors of Arts degree
from Marquette University, and is originally from East Cleveland, Ohio.

Region 5 serves Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Minnesota, Ohio, and
Wisconsin.

**<u>DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT (HUD)</u>**

Regional Administrators lead HUD’s 10 Regional Offices that directly
serve state and local organizations. Regional Administrators oversee
field offices across each state in their region and ensure the
Department directly serves local communities. Regional Administrators
play a key role in leading assignments of housing assistance funds
within the region and coordinating those assignments with HUD
headquarters.

**<u>Juana Matias, HUD Regional Administrator, Region 1</u>**

Juana Matias is a member of the Massachusetts Bar Association and served
as the Chief Operating Officer for MassINC, a nonprofit, non-partisan
public policy think and action tank and civic news organization. In this
capacity, she oversaw the organization’s internal operations, policy and
advocacy strategy, development, and communications, and served as the
main spokesperson with elected officials, policy makers, and the media.
She also led efforts to strategically advance MassINC’s research in
policy areas which included the K-16 education continuum, housing
choice, criminal justice reform, transit-oriented development, and
racial and economic justice.

Previously, Matias served as the State Representative for the
16<sup>th</sup> Essex District, becoming the first Latina immigrant
elected to the Massachusetts House of Representatives. During her time
at the State House, she secured an 81% increase in local funding for her
district, and sponsored key legislation that protected immigrant rights,
stimulated the production of new affordable housing, promoted access to
minority-owned and women-owned businesses, addressed inequities in our
public-school systems, and expanded opportunities for working class
Americans.

Region 1 serves Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Rhode
Island, and Vermont.

**<u>Candace Valenzuela, HUD Regional Administrator, Region 6</u>**

Candace Valenzuela is a mother, an educator, and a former school board
trustee. She credits HUD and public education with giving her the
stability she and her family needed to thrive as she experienced food
and housing insecurity throughout childhood. After becoming the first in
her family to graduate college, Valenzuela has since devoted her life to
fighting for opportunities for others. She first ran for her local
school board to improve Texas schools, becoming the first Latina and
first Black woman to serve on the Carrollton-Farmers Branch school
board. While on the board, she worked to ensure that faculty and staff
would be able to afford to live in the district they served, and that
students would have a strong education to help them overcome life’s
challenges. Valenzuela was the Democratic nominee for Congress in Texas’
24<sup>th</sup> District in 2020. She previously worked as a development
manager for Metrocrest Services, a half-century-old non-profit that has
worked hard to fight hunger, housing insecurity, and unemployment in her
community.

Region 6 serves Arkansas, Louisiana, New Mexico, Oklahoma, and Texas.

\###
