---
category: statements-releases
date: '2022-03-16'
modified_time: 2022-03-16 08:14:24-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/03/16/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-resources-for-historically-black-colleges-and-universities-that-have-recently-experienced-bomb-threats/
published_time: 2022-03-16 08:14:23-04:00
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden- \u2060 Harris Administration Announces Resources for Historically\
  \ Black Colleges and Universities that Have Recently Experienced Bomb Threats"
---
 
*Vice President Harris To Make Announcement During White House
Event* *March 16<sup>th</sup>, 2022*

In the last three months, more than one-third of our country’s
Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) have received bomb
threats. While, thankfully, no explosive devices were found on any of
these campuses, significant and lasting damage has been done by
threatening the safety and security of the students, faculty, and staff
at these institutions. As a result of these threats, learning has been
disrupted, critical resources have been diverted to emergency response,
and there has been an increased burden on already overwhelmed campus
mental health systems. HBCU students – already experiencing negative
impacts from the pandemic such as lingering effects of illness, trauma,
and basic needs insecurities – are now experiencing additional stress
and anxiety because of these bomb threats that can negatively affect
their academic success.

It is important to view these recent and repeated threats through both
the lens of the present day as well as our country’s history. HBCUs were
founded to educate Black people in an America that refused to accept
them as full human beings and prevented them – because of racial
discrimination – from attending other colleges. Threats to the education
and well-being of Black Americans and HBCUs are an unfortunate part of
American history. The bomb threats that we witnessed in January, each
week in February – Black History Month, and this month are reminiscent
of the attempts during the Civil Rights Era to intimidate and provoke
fear in Black Americans. 

The Biden-Harris Administration is taking a whole-of-government approach
in responding to these threats and ensuring the safety and well-being of
students, staff, and faculty. Immediately following the first reports of
the threats, Education Secretary Cardona and Homeland Security Secretary
Mayorkas hosted a briefing with more than 40 presidents of HBCUs from
across the nation to share information on grant programs, training
resources, and other tools available to HBCUs to strengthen campus
safety and security. Leaders from the Department of Education (ED) and
other federal agencies have visited HBCU campuses. During these visits,
federal officials heard firsthand about the need to modernize and update
their operations, including campus safety and security, as well as the
need for more resources to help bolster mental health services due to
increased apprehension across the campus community.

Today, in response to these needs, Vice President Kamala Harris is
announcing that HBCUs that have recently experienced a bomb threat
resulting in a disruption to the campus learning environment are
eligible for grant funds. These grant funds are from the Project School
Emergency Response to Violence (Project SERV) program at ED. Project
SERV provides short-term, immediate funding for local educational
agencies and institutions of higher education that have experienced a
violent or traumatic incident to assist in restoring a safe environment
conducive to learning. 

ED will work with the HBCUs that have received recent bomb threats to
determine if Project SERV can help get funds to their campuses for
immediate needs, such as targeted mental health resources or enhanced
security, to restore the learning environment on their campuses. ED is
able to provide this funding to HBCUs to ensure students feel safe on
their campuses. ED staff will work with each HBCU to help determine
their specific immediate needs. Awards typically range from $50,000 to
$150,000 per school.

In addition to the short-term funds provided through Project SERV, the
Biden-Harris Administration is providing HBCUs a compendium of resources
that are available across the federal government – from ED, Department
of Health and Human Services, Department of Homeland Security, and
Department of Justice – to help with long-term improvements to campus
mental health programs, campus safety, and emergency management planning
and response. The resource guide offers a centralized source of
information on grant programs and technical assistance activities across
federal agencies.

These announcements today build off the historic investments and support
the Biden-Harris Administration has already delivered to HBCUs – $5.8
billion in total to date, including more than $2.7 billion in American
Rescue Plan funding – to ameliorate chronic underfunding and help
address critical needs brought on by the COVID-19 pandemic.

Educational opportunity is a fundamental element of the American promise
and HBCUs have played an outsized role in securing that opportunity for
Black people. As President Biden indicated in Executive Order 14041 –
which re-established the White House Initiative on HBCUs – HBCUs have a
proud history and legacy of achievement. That legacy continues, with
more than 100 HBCUs, located in 19 states, the District of Columbia, and
the U.S. Virgin Islands that serve nearly 300,000 students annually.
These storied institutions have excelled, in the face of discrimination,
and their strength and convictions will not be compromised by these
violent bomb threats.  

\###
