---
category: statements-releases
date: '2022-03-08'
modified_time: 2022-03-08 12:11:04-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/03/08/fact-sheet-united-states-bans-imports-of-russian-oil-liquefied-natural-gas-and-coal/
published_time: 2022-03-08 12:08:28-05:00
title: 'FACT SHEET: United States Bans Imports of Russian Oil, Liquefied Natural Gas,
  and Coal'
---
 
Today, President Biden will sign an Executive Order (E.O.) to ban the
import of Russian oil, liquefied natural gas, and coal to the United
States – a significant action with widespread bipartisan support that
will further deprive President Putin of the economic resources he uses
to continue his needless war of choice.

The United States made this decision in close consultation with our
Allies and partners around the world, as well as Members of Congress of
both parties. The United States is able to take this step because of our
strong domestic energy infrastructure and we recognize that not all of
our Allies and partners are currently in a position to join us. But we
are united with our Allies and partners in working together to reduce
our collective dependence on Russian energy and keep the pressure
mounting on Putin, while at the same taking active steps to limit
impacts on global energy markets and protect our own economies.

This announcement builds on unprecedented economic costs the United
States and our Allies and partners have imposed on Russia. As a result
of our historic, multilateral coordination, Russia has become a global
economic and financial pariah. Over 30 countries representing well over
half the world’s economy have announced sanctions that impose immediate
and severe economic costs on Russia, cut off access to high-tech
technology, sap its growth potential, and weaken its military for years
to come. The Russian ruble is now worth less than a penny and has hit an
all-time low after losing almost half of its value since Putin announced
his further invasion of Ukraine. By isolating Russia’s Central Bank and
cutting off the largest Russian banks from the international financial
system, we have disarmed his war chest of foreign reserves and left
Putin to soften the blow of our sanctions. U.S. and allied export
controls are impacting industrial production in Russia, Russian
commercial aviation, and other key sectors of the Russian economy. The
United States and governments all over the world are going after Putin’s
cronies and their families by identifying and freezing the assets they
hold in our respective jurisdictions – their yachts, luxury apartments,
money, and other ill-gotten gains.  

**Today’s Executive Order bans:**

-   The importation into the United States of Russian crude oil and
    certain petroleum products, liquefied natural gas, and coal. Last
    year, the U.S. imported nearly 700,000 barrels per day of crude oil
    and refined petroleum products from Russia and this step will
    deprive Russia of billions of dollars in revenues from U.S. drivers
    and consumers annually.  
     
-   New U.S. investment in Russia’s energy sector, which will ensure
    that American companies and American investors are not underwriting
    Vladimir Putin’s efforts to expand energy production inside
    Russia.  
     
-   Americans will also be prohibited from financing or enabling foreign
    companies that are making investment to produce energy in Russia.

**Putin’s brutal war has led to higher energy prices and raised costs
for Americans at home. Today, President Biden made clear that he will
keep working to mitigate the pain American families feel at the pump and
reduce our dependence on foreign oil and fossil fuels:**

-   The Administration has already committed to releasing more than 90
    million barrels from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve this fiscal
    year, with an emergency sale of 30 million barrels announced just
    last week. After intensive around-the-clock coordination and
    consultation by President Biden, the International Energy Agency
    (IEA) Member countries agreed to a collective release of an initial
    60 million barrels of crude oil from our strategic petroleum
    reserves, with the United States committing half of that in the
    emergency sale. We are in conversations with a range of energy
    producers and consumers on further steps we can take to ensure a
    stable global supply of energy.  
     
-   U.S. oil and gas production is approaching record highs, while
    thousands of drilling permits on federal lands go unused. Federal
    policies are not limiting the production of oil and gas.  To the
    contrary, the Biden Administration has been clear that in the
    short-term, supply must keep up with demand, at home and around the
    world while we make the shift to a secure clean energy future.  We
    are one of the world’s largest producers with a strong domestic oil
    and gas industry. Natural gas production has never been higher, and
    crude oil production is expected to hit a new high next year. Oil
    and gas companies, and the finance firms that back them, should not
    use Putin’s war as an excuse for excess price increases or padding
    profits, and, as major energy company leaders have themselves said,
    they have the resources and incentives they need to further increase
    production in the United States.

<!-- -->

-   In the long run, the way to avoid high gas prices is to speed up –
    not slow down – our transition to a clean energy future.  We cannot
    drill our way out of dependence on a global commodity controlled in
    part by foreign nations and their leaders, including Putin. The only
    way to eliminate Putin’s and every other producing country’s ability
    to use oil as an economic weapon, is to reduce our dependency on
    oil.  So, even as President Biden does everything in his power in
    the short term to make sure we can readily access the oil and gas
    necessary to protect American consumers and allied countries–
    including through greater U.S. domestic production that is expected
    to hit record highs next year – this crisis reinforces our resolve
    to make America truly energy independent, which means reducing our
    dependence on fossil fuels. This is a shared goal with our European
    allies, that we will work together to achieve.

\###
