---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2022-03-11'
modified_time: 2022-03-11 15:24:55-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/03/11/fact-sheet-united-states-partnership-with-the-african-union-africa-centres-for-disease-control-and-prevention/
published_time: 2022-03-11 12:00:00-05:00
title: "FACT SHEET: United\_States Partnership with the African Union \u2013 Africa\
  \ Centres for Disease Control and\_Prevention"
---
 
Today, the United States and African Union (AU) – Africa Centres for
Disease Control and Prevention (Africa CDC) renewed our partnership by
signing an updated Memorandum of Cooperation (MOC) between His
Excellency Moussa Faki Mahamat, Chairperson of the African Union
Commission (AUC), and U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken. This
strategic memorandum signifies a continued and expanded commitment to
this partnership by outlining our shared priorities for a safer,
healthier, and more equitable future. Together, we will continue efforts
to achieve the Sustainable Development Agenda. 

At the February 2022 AU Heads of State Summit, a resolution was approved
to elevate Africa CDC’s status to an autonomous health agency of the
African Union – a recognition of its global and regional leadership
during the COVID-19 pandemic, Ebola outbreaks, and many other health
events. In its support to Member States, Africa CDC serves as a platform
to share and exchange knowledge and lessons from public health
interventions. Since our partnership officially began in 2015, the U.S.
government and Africa CDC have worked together to combat some of the
world’s most pressing crises, including Ebola and COVID-19. We have
continued to build on our strong relationship through technical
assistance, embedded experts and deployed staff to work alongside the
organization, and funding to support Africa CDC activities and
staffing.  

Today, we celebrate ongoing work and highlight key areas of future
engagement, including: 

**National Public Health Institutes (NPHIs): **National public health
institutes (NPHIs) serve as a functional home for public health
activities and the foundation of Africa CDC’s operating model. These
science-based agencies monitor the population’s health and respond to
disease outbreaks and other public health priorities. They provide
leadership and coordination to focus on core public health functions,
including surveillance, laboratory, workforce, and public health
emergency management. There is natural synergy between Africa CDC and
the United States in establishing NPHIs and strengthening their core
functions. 

The United States has also supported Africa CDC’s three-tiered
operational model by developing and strengthening NPHIs at the national
level and at five Regional Collaborating Centers (RCCs). The RCCs help
build capacity of, coordinate public health initiatives with, and
coordinate resources among AU Member States. Current Africa CDC
initiatives, in partnership with the United States, can address capacity
needs of NPHIs, including surveillance networks, health information
exchange, early warning systems, and development of testing and
diagnostics capacity. Our partnership will help support Africa CDC’s
ongoing efforts to expand health security throughout the continent, and
help countries reach the goals and target of the Global Health Security
Agenda.

**Public Health Workforce: **The United States and Africa CDC share the
perspective that the public health and healthcare workforce plays a
critical role in strengthen health systems, including preparing for and
responding to pandemics while continuing to address health needs. The
United States works with Africa CDC in building Africa’s public health
workforce through supporting global human resources for health,
expanding the Field Epidemiology Training Program (FETP), and partnering
with Africa CDC’s Institute for Workforce Development (IWD) on other
capacity building efforts.

**COVID-19:** As part of President Biden’s commitment to leading an
international and coordinated vaccine effort, the United States has
shared over 166 million COVID-19 vaccine doses with 48 countries in
Africa, as of February 2022, with plans for sending more.  Africa CDC,
in partnership with the African Union, the African Vaccine Acquisition
Trust and COVAX, has helped guide allocations of those doses. The United
States is supporting updates to regulatory structures and is
facilitating engagement with private sector and international
organizations that will help expand vaccine manufacturing and enable
African public health institutions to produce and supply vaccines for
the continent. The U.S. government has partnered with Africa CDC to
enhance surveillance and laboratory capacity to identify, detect, and
respond to COVID-19 outbreaks and variants of concern. The United States
has also deployed staff to support and collaborate with Africa CDC in
its leadership of COVID-19 response in Africa. 

**Critical Medical Commodities:**  Through the United States
Government’s Initiative for Global Vaccine Access (Global VAX), we are
expanding efforts to work with international partners like Africa CDC to
support infrastructure and capacity in vaccine delivery. While we
currently work together on COVID-19 vaccine development, these efforts
lay the foundation for accelerating the development of vaccines,
therapeutics, and other critical medicals tools for a range of
diseases.  This complements existing work and technical partnerships
across Africa for similar efforts to meet immediate and long-term health
needs.

**Advanced Molecular Detection**: Advanced technologies such as
next-generation sequencing and bioinformatics are essential public
health tools to help prevent and respond to emerging health threats.
Genomics is an increasingly important tool in emerging potential in
global public health. The United States, Africa CDC, and other partners
have worked together to launch Africa CDC’s Pathogen Genomics initiative
to strengthen laboratory systems and enhance disease surveillance by
equipping the continent’s public health institutions with the tools,
training, and data infrastructure to fully leverage critical genomic
sequencing technologies.

\###
