---
category: statements-releases
date: '2022-03-25'
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/03/25/statement-by-national-security-advisor-jake-sullivan-on-houthi-attack-against-saudi-arabia-3/
published_time: 2022-03-25 17:51:20-04:00
title: Statement by National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan on Houthi Attack Against
  Saudi Arabia
---
 
We condemn the Houthi attacks launched against Saudi Arabia’s civil
infrastructure earlier today. Unprovoked Houthi attacks against Saudi
Aramco’s oil storage facilities in Jeddah as well as attacks against
civil facilities in Jizan, Najran, and Dhahran are acts of terrorism
aimed to prolong the suffering of the Yemeni people.  Today’s attacks,
just like the attacks against water treatment plants and energy
infrastructure on March 19 and 20, were clearly enabled by Iran in
violation of UN Security Council resolutions prohibiting the import of
weapons into Yemen.  Saudi Arabia and the Yemeni Government have
endorsed multiple UN calls for ceasefires and de-escalation over the
last year. The Houthis continue to reject these calls and respond with
terrorist acts and military offensives, all of which extend the Yemen
conflict and the consequent humanitarian crisis.  It is time to bring
this war to a close and relief to the Yemeni people but that can only
happen if the Houthis agree to cooperate with the United Nations and
its envoy working on a step-by-step process to de-escalate the conflict.
The United States stands fully behind those efforts, and we will
continue to fully support our partners in the defense of their territory
from Houthi attacks. We call on the international community to do the
same.

\###
