---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2022-03-17'
modified_time: 2022-03-17 07:45:29-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/03/17/statement-by-president-joe-biden-on-the-white-house-covid-19-response-coordinator/
published_time: 2022-03-17 07:45:28-04:00
title: "Statement by President Joe\_Biden on the\_White\_House COVID-\u206019 Response\_\
  Coordinator"
---
 
I called on Jeff Zients to lead my Administration’s COVID-19 response
because there is no one better at delivering results than Jeff.

COVID-19 is the greatest public health crisis we’ve faced in my lifetime
and it required the country to build from scratch an emergency response
infrastructure that could quickly and equitably get people life-saving
protections. Jeff put his decades of management experience to work
formulating and executing on a plan to build the infrastructure we
needed to deliver vaccines, tests, treatment, and masks to hundreds of
millions of Americans.

When Jeff took this job, less than 1% of Americans were fully
vaccinated; fewer than half our schools were open; and unlike much of
the developed world, America lacked any at-home COVID tests.  Today,
almost 80% of adults are fully vaccinated; over 100 million are boosted;
virtually every school is open; and hundreds of millions of at-home
tests are distributed every month.  In addition, the US leads the global
effort to fight COVID, delivering more free vaccines to other countries
than every other nation on Earth.  The progress that he and his team
have made is stunning and even more important consequential. Lives have
been saved.

Jeff spent the last 14 months working tirelessly to help combat COVID. 
He is a man of service and an expert manager. I will miss his counsel
and I’m grateful for his service.

Thanks to all the progress we’ve made, Americans are safely moving back
to more normal routines, using the effective new tools we have to enable
us to reduce severe COVID cases and make workplaces and schools safer. 
But our work in combatting COVID is far from done.   We must continue
the effort to provide more vaccines and boosters.  We must get a vaccine
approved for the youngest children.  We must continue to improve how our
schools and workplaces cope with COVID.  We must take special care to
protect the vulnerable from COVID, even as many restrictions are
lifted.  We need to provide tests, and treatments, and masks.  We must
fight the virus overseas, prepare for new waves, and new variants – all
of which can be coming.  And we must work with Congress to fund these
vital steps, as time is running out to stay ahead of the virus.

To lead this effort, I am excited to name Dr. Ashish Jha as the new
White House COVID-19 Response Coordinator. Dr. Jha is one of the leading
public health experts in America, and a well known figure to many
Americans from his wise and calming public presence. And as we enter a
new moment in the pandemic – executing on my National COVID-19
Preparedness Plan and managing the ongoing risks from COVID – Dr. Jha is
the perfect person for the job.

I appreciate both Jeff and Dr. Jha for working closely to ensure a
smooth transition, and I look forward to continued progress in the
months ahead.

\###
