---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2022-03-23'
modified_time: 2022-03-23 16:58:07-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/03/23/president-biden-announces-key-appointments/
published_time: 2022-03-23 16:00:00-04:00
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key\_Appointments"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Biden announces his intent to appoint the
following individuals to serve in key roles on the President’s Council
on Sports, Fitness, & Nutrition, the Commission of Fine Arts, and the
President’s Committee on the National Medal of Science:

-   José Andrés, Co-Chair, the President’s Council on Sports, Fitness, &
    Nutrition
-   Elena Delle Donne, Co-Chair, the President’s Council on Sports,
    Fitness, & Nutrition
-   Lisa E. Delplace, Member, the Commission of Fine Arts
-   May Berenbaum, Member, the President’s Committee on the National
    Medal of Science
-   Rafael Bras, Member, the President’s Committee on the National Medal
    of Science
-   Joan Ferrini-Mundy, Member, the President’s Committee on the
    National Medal of Science
-   Erika Gonzalez, Member, the President’s Committee on the National
    Medal of Science
-   Juan Maldacena, Member, the President’s Committee on the National
    Medal of Science
-   Cora Bagley Marrett, Member, the President’s Committee on the
    National Medal of Science
-   Valerie Montgomery Rice, Member, the President’s Committee on the
    National Medal of Science
-   Craig Partridge, Member, the President’s Committee on the National
    Medal of Science
-   Padma Raghavan, Member, the President’s Committee on the National
    Medal of Science
-   Pedro A. Sanchez, Member, the President’s Committee on the National
    Medal of Science
-   Robert Sellers, Member, the President’s Committee on the National
    Medal of Science
-   Cherese Winstead, Member, the President’s Committee on the National
    Medal of Science

**<u>The President’s Council on Sports, Fitness, & Nutrition</u>**

The President’s Council on Sports, Fitness & Nutrition (PCSFN) is a
federal advisory committee that aims to promote healthy, accessible
eating and physical activity for all Americans, regardless of background
or ability. President Biden issues Executive Order 14048, renewing the
President’s Council on Sports, Fitness & Nutrition. This Executive Order
allows for continued promotion of the National Youth Sports Strategy,
and provides for the work of the Council to include a focus on expanding
national awareness of the importance of mental health as it pertains to
physical fitness and nutrition.

**José Andrés as Co-Chair**

José Andrés is an internationally recognized culinary innovator, New
York Times bestselling author, educator, and humanitarian. He was named
one of Time Magazine’s “100 Most Influential People” in both 2012 and
2018, and awarded the 2015 National Humanities Medal from President
Barack Obama. As the chef/owner of the award-winning ThinkFoodGroup
restaurant collective, Andrés has been a pioneer of Spanish tapas in the
United States and is also known for his groundbreaking avant-garde
cuisine. In 2010, Andrés formed World Central Kitchen, a non-profit
which uses the power of food to nourish communities and strengthen
economies in times of crisis. His team served over 3.6 million meals to
the people of Puerto Rico following Hurricane María. Since then, WCK has
activated on six continents, serving tens of millions of fresh meals in
the aftermath of both natural and manmade disasters. In response to the
COVID-19 pandemic, the organization partnered with thousands of
restaurants, farmers, and community leaders around the country to combat
food and nutrition insecurity, laying the groundwork for smarter
national food policy—one which builds longer tables in the US and around
the world.  Currently, Andrés and World Central Kitchen are working in
Ukraine and four neighboring countries, feeding refugees who have fled
their homes. Andrés currently serves as co-Chair of the Bipartisan
Policy Center’s Food and Nutrition Security Task Force, was named
Washington Business Journal’s CEO of the Year in 2020 for his leadership
and impact on the global business community during the COVID-19
pandemic, and was awarded the Princesa de Asturias Foundation’s 2021
Concordia Prize for World Central Kitchen’s humanitarian work. As a
naturalized citizen originally from Spain, Andrés has also been a
tireless advocate for immigration reform.

**Elena Delle Donne as Co-Chair**

Elena Delle Donne is one of the most dominant players in the WNBA. The
Washington Mystics star is a Top 25 WNBA player of all time, two-time
WNBA MVP (2015, 2019), WNBA Champion (2019), six-time WNBA All-Star
honor, and four-time All-WNBA First Team selection. Delle Donne is also
the first WNBA player to join the 50-40-90 club, a group of elite sharp
shooters comprised of only eight other NBA players. A member of Team
USA, Delle Donne took home a gold medal during the 2016 Olympics and was
the WNBA scoring champion in 2015. The 2013 WNBA Rookie of the Year, the
Delaware native was drafted second overall in the WNBA draft. Prior to
her WNBA career, Delle Donne attended the University of Delaware to
remain close to her tight-knit family. While at Delaware, Delle Donne
led her team to its first ever NCAA Sweet Sixteen her senior year, was a
consensus first team All-American, and finished as CAA Conference Player
of the Year three times. Off the court, Delle Donne is the author of a
middle-grade series, Hoops, and released her memoir *My Shot: Balancing
it All and Standing Tall*. Additionally, Delle Donne and her wife,
Amanda, turned their passion for woodworking and design into their own
business, Deldon, creating custom pieces like cutting boards, wall art
and basketball hoops. In 2017, she founded the Elena Delle Donne
Foundation to raise funds and awareness of Lyme disease research,
special needs programs and animal welfare work. 

**<u>The Commission of Fine Arts</u>**

The Commission of Fine Arts is an independent federal agency charged
with giving expert advice to the President, the Congress and the federal
and District of Columbia governments on matters of design and
aesthetics, as they affect the federal interest and preserve the dignity
of the nation’s capital. The Commission is composed of seven
presidentially appointed experts in relevant disciplines including art,
architecture, landscape architecture, and urban design.

**Lisa E. Delplace as Member**

Lisa E. Delplace, FASLA, is a landscape architect and Chief Executive
Officer Emeritus of Washington, DC-based OEHME, VAN SWEDEN | OvS. In a
career that spans four decades, Lisa has demonstrated comprehensive
knowledge of ecological processes and a commitment to their artistic
execution. Her diverse body of work ranges from bucolic sculpture parks
to urban redevelopments and reflects a compelling sculptural
relationship between architecture and landscape. Lisa holds a Master of
Landscape Architecture from the University of Michigan and is a member
of the American Society of Landscape Architects’ Council of Fellows. She
serves as a visiting critic and lecturer for universities and
professional organizations and has international experience in Europe,
the Middle East, and service as a U.S. Peace Corps Volunteer in Kenya,
East Africa.

**<u>The President’s Committee on the National Medal of Science</u>**

The President’s Committee on the National Medal of Science evaluates
nominees for the National Medal of Science, a Presidential Award to
recognize individuals for their outstanding contributions to knowledge
in the physical, biological, mathematical, engineering, social, and
behavioral sciences. Since its establishment, the National Medal of
Science has been awarded to 506 distinguished scientists and engineers
whose careers spanned decades of research and development.

**May Berenbaum as Member**

May Berenbaum has been on the faculty of the Department of Entomology at
the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign for more than 40 years,
serving as head since 1992 and as Swanlund Chair of Entomology since
1996. A member of the National Academy of Sciences, she has chaired two
National Research Council study committees, including Status of
Pollinators in North America, testifying before Congress on the study’s
findings. Since January 2019, she has served as Editor-in-Chief of the
Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. She is a Fellow of the
American Academy of Arts and Sciences, the American Association for the
Advancement of Science, the Ecological Society of America, and the
Entomological Society of America. In 2011, she was awarded the Tyler
Prize for Environmental Achievement, and, in 2014, she received the
National Medal of Science from President Obama.

**Rafael Bras as Member**

A native of Puerto Rico, Rafael L. Bras is a professor in the School of
Earth and Atmospheric Sciences and the School of Civil and Environmental
Engineering at the Georgia Institute of Technology. He holds the K.
Harrison Brown Family Chair. Dr. Bras works in the field of hydrology
with particular interest on land-atmosphere-biosphere interactions. He
was Provost and Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs at the
Georgia Institute of Technology. He was also Distinguished Professor and
Dean of the Henry Samueli School of Engineering of the University of
California, Irvine and spent 32 years as a professor in the departments
of Civil and Environmental Engineering and of Earth, Atmospheric, and
Planetary Sciences at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Dr.
Bras is an elected member of the U.S. National Academy of Engineering
and the Academy of Arts and Sciences of Puerto Rico.

**Joan Ferrini-Mundy as Member**

Dr. Joan Ferrini-Mundy was appointed the 21<sup>st</sup> president of
the University of Maine and its regional campus in Machias in 2018. She
was also named Vice Chancellor for Research and Innovation for the
University of Maine System and is a professor in the Department of
Mathematics and Statistics. Ferrini-Mundy came to Maine following her
service as the chief operating officer of the National Science
Foundation. Prior to that role, she headed the National Science
Foundation’s Directorate for Education and Human Resources for six
years. She also has been a faculty member and administrator at her alma
mater, the University of New Hampshire, and at Michigan State
University. President Ferrini-Mundy’s awards and recognitions include
the U.S. Senior Executive Service Presidential Rank Award of
Distinguished Executive, Michigan State University Distinguished
Professorship, election as a fellow of the American Association for the
Advancement of Science and of the American Mathematical Society, and the
2020 Seaman A. Knapp Award for leadership and contributions to food and
agricultural sciences.

**Erika Gonzalez as Member**

Dr. Erika Gonzalez is the CEO & President of both South Texas Allergy &
Asthma Medical Professionals (STAAMP) and STAAMP Clinical Research. She
previously served as the Chief of the Allergy, Immunology & Rheumatology
division at the Children’s Hospital of San Antonio and was an Associate
Professor of Clinical Pediatrics at Baylor College of Medicine. She
serves on the Board of Directors for Central Catholic High School, Girls
Inc. San Antonio, and the San Antonio Economic Development Foundation.
She is an Advisor to the Dean of Science Engineering & Technology at St.
Mary’s University, on the Stock Epinephrine Committee with the Texas
Department of State Health Services, and Co-Chair for the Small Business
for America’s Future. Dr. Gonzalez recently founded the nonprofit Con
Corazon SA to address health inequities and emergency preparedness. She
is a native of San Antonio and served 10 years of Active Duty Service as
a Medical Officer in the U. S. Air Force. She was selected as a 2019
Presidential Leadership Scholar.

**Juan Maldacena as Member**

Juan Maldacena was born in 1968 in Argentina, where he obtained his
college degree. He moved to the U.S. for his physics Ph.D., completed in
1996 at Princeton University. He has been a professor at the Institute
for Advanced Study in Princeton since 2001 and currently holds the Carl
P. Feinberg chair. His research interests include quantum field theory,
quantum gravity, string theory, and cosmology. He is a member of the
National Academy of Sciences and the American Academy of Arts and
Sciences. His awards include the Dannie Heineman Prize, the Einstein
Medal, the Mac Arthur Fellowship, and the Breakthrough Prize in Physics.

**Cora Bagley Marrett as Member**

Cora Bagley Marrett is Professor Emerita of Sociology at the University
of Wisconsin-Madison. She has held posts at the University of North
Carolina, Chapel Hill; Western Michigan University; the University of
Wisconsin System; and the University of Massachusetts-Amherst. At the
University of Massachusetts-Amherst, she was Provost and Vice Chancellor
for Academic Affairs. For eleven years, she served as an administrator
at the National Science Foundation and was appointed Deputy Director of
the National Science Foundation by President Obama. Throughout her
career, she has served on governing or advisory boards with the Social
Science Research Council, the Russell Sage Foundation, the National
Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine, and the Office of Naval
Research. President Carter appointed her to the Commission on the
Accident at Three Mile Island, which examined the nuclear power incident
in Pennsylvania. She holds honorary degrees from Virginia Union
University, the University of Wisconsin-Madison, and Wake Forest
University.

**Valerie Montgomery Rice as Member**

Valerie Montgomery Rice, MD, FACOG, is the sixth President and CEO of
Morehouse School of Medicine and the first woman to lead the
free-standing medical institution. Prior to joining Morehouse School of
Medicine, Montgomery Rice was the founding director of the Center for
Women’s Health Research at Meharry Medical College, one of the nation’s
first research centers devoted to studying diseases that
disproportionately impact women of color. She currently serves on the
Georgia Commission on Women, chairs the Georgia Department of Public
Health’s Covid-19 Health Equity Council, and is a member of the National
Academy of Medicine. A Georgia native, Montgomery Rice holds a
bachelor’s degree in chemistry from the Georgia Institute of Technology,
a medical degree from Harvard Medical School, an honorary degree from
the University of Massachusetts Medical School, and a Doctor of Humane
Letters honorary degree from Rush University.

**Craig Partridge as Member**

Professor Craig Partridge is the chair of the department of Computer
Science at Colorado State University. Previously, he was Chief Scientist
at Raytheon BBN Technologies. Partridge is a member of the Internet Hall
of Fame and a Fellow of the Association for Computing Machinery and
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers. Partridge is a member
of the Computer Science and Telecommunications Board of the National
Academies. He is a former chair of ACM’s Special Interest Group on Data
Communication and a former member of the National Science Foundation’s
Computer and Information Science and Engineering Advisory Committee.
Partridge received his A.B., M.Sc., and Ph.D. degrees from Harvard
University.

**Padma Raghavan** **as Member**

Padma Raghavan is the inaugural Vice Provost for Research and Professor
of Computer Science at Vanderbilt University. Prior to joining
Vanderbilt in 2016, Raghavan served as the Associate Vice President for
Research and Strategic Initiatives, the founding Director of the
Institute for Computational and Data Sciences, and Distinguished
Professor of Computer Science and Engineering at the Pennsylvania State
University. Raghavan was named a fellow of the Institute of Electrical
and Electronics Engineers in 2013 in recognition of her contributions to
the development of energy-efficient supercomputing. She also serves on
editorial boards of the Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics
and the Advisory Boards of the Computing and Information Science and
Engineering Directorate and the Office of Advanced Cyberinfrastructure
of the National Science Foundation. Raghavan also serves on multiple
committees of the National Academies of Science, Engineering, and
Medicine, including Technical Advisory Boards for the Army Research
Laboratory on Computational Science and Information Sciences.

**Pedro A. Sanchez** **as Member**

Pedro Sanchez was born and raised in Cuba, where he worked on his
family’s farm. He has spent 50 years alternating between American
universities and CGIAR’s international research centers. He has been
faculty at North Carolina State University, the University of California
Berkeley, Colombia University, and the University of Florida, where he
is currently a research professor of tropical soils and core faculty
member of the Food Systems Institute. Cambridge University Press
published Sanchez’s book “Properties and Management of Soils in the
Tropics” in 2019 and its translation into Spanish in 2021. Sanchez has
received honorary Doctor of Science degrees from the Catholic University
of Leuven, Guelph University in Canada, the Ohio State University, and
North Carolina State University. He won the World Food Prize in 2002,
became a MacArthur Foundation Fellow in 2004, and was elected to the
U.S. National Academy of Sciences in 2012. In 2016, President Obama
appointed him to the President´s Committee on the National Medal of
Science.

**Robert Sellers as Member**

Robert M. Sellers is the Vice Provost for Equity and Inclusion, Chief
Diversity Officer, and the Charles D. Moody Collegiate Professor of
Psychology and Education at the University of Michigan. Prior to joining
the Provost’s Office, Dr. Sellers was chair of the University of
Michigan Department of Psychology. His research interests include
ethnicity, racial and ethnic identity, personality and health, athletic
participation, and personality. He has received the Theodore Millon
Mid-Career Award in Personality Psychology from the American
Psychological Foundation, the American Psychological Association
Minority Fellowship Program Research Achievement Award, and the APAGS
Kenneth & Mamie Clark Award for Outstanding Contribution to the
Professional Development of Ethnic Minority Graduate Students. Sellers
received his B.S. in Psychology from Howard University and his doctorate
in personality psychology from the University of Michigan.

**Cherese Winstead as Member**

Dr. Cherese Winstead is ranked as Full Professor in the Department of
Chemistry at Delaware State University and currently serves as Dean of
the College of Agriculture, Science & Technology. She previously served
as the Department Chair of Chemistry at Delaware State University for
over eight years. She is a member of Delaware NASA Space Grant, Delaware
Comprehensive Sickle Cell Research Center, Materials Research Society,
American Chemical Society, and the Delaware Science Coalition. Dr.
Winstead is Founder and President of the Young Chemists Society, a
non-profit organization dedicated to the early education of
underrepresented students in science, technology, engineering, and
mathematics. Dr. Winstead obtained her Ph.D. from The Virginia
Polytechnic Institute & State University.

\###
