---
date: '2022-03-30'
modified_time: 2022-03-29 23:05:27-04:00
published_time: 2022-03-30 08:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/03/30/fact-sheet-biden-administration-launches-covid-gov-a-new-one-stop-shop-website-for-vaccines-tests-treatments-masks-and-the-latest-covid-19-information/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Fact Sheet: Biden Administration Launches COVID.gov, a New One-Stop Shop Website\
  \ for Vaccines, Tests, Treatments, Masks, and the Latest COVID-\u206019\_Information"
---
 
***Website will Feature a New Test-to-Treat Locator Tool to Help People
Access the Over 2,000 Locations that Offer COVID-19 Tests and Antiviral
Pills at One Convenient Location***

***Administration Continues to Urge Congress to Provide Funding
Immediately to Help Keep These Life-Saving Protections Readily Available
to All***

Today, the Biden Administration is launching COVID.gov, a new one-stop
shop website to help all people in the United States gain even better
access to lifesaving tools like vaccines, tests, treatments, and masks,
as well as get the latest updates on COVID-19 in their area. The
Administration has worked over the past 14 months to set up over 90,000
vaccination sites, make more than 400 million high-quality masks
available for free, send free tests to peoples’ homes, and stand up new
test-to-treat sites where people can get tested and receive life-saving
antivirals all in one place. Now, with a click of a button, people will
be able to find where to access all of these tools, as well as receive
the latest CDC data on the level of COVID-19 in their community.

As part of COVID.gov, a new Test-to-Treat locator will help people
access pharmacies and community health centers across the nation where
people can get tested for COVID-19 and receive appropriate treatments if
they need them. President Biden announced the Test-to-Treat initiative
in his State of the Union address earlier this month. Since that time,
the Administration has already launched over 2,000 of these sites, plus
more than 240 sites across Veteran’s Health Administration and
Department of Defense facilities to serve veterans, military personnel,
and their families. As has been the case throughout the pandemic, the
Administration is ensuring locations are established in our most
hard-hit and high-risk communities.

Because of the lifesaving tools we now have, America is in a new moment
in the pandemic. The country is moving forward safely and people are
getting back to their more normal routines. To ensure we’re sustaining
and building on this progress and protecting and preparing for new
variants, earlier this month, the President released his [National
COVID-19 Preparedness Plan](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/covidplan/). The
President was clear that in order to execute on this plan and to stay
ahead of the virus, the Administration needs additional funding from
Congress—including $22.5 billion in immediate emergency funds. To date,
Congress has failed to provide those funds and the country is already
suffering the consequences. In the last two weeks, the Administration
has had to stop reimbursing health care providers for treating the
uninsured, cancel monoclonal antibody orders and cut states’ supply,
reduce orders of treatments for the immunocompromised, and pull the U.S.
out of line for future vaccine and next-generation treatment purchases.
These issues disproportionately impact our hardest-hit and highest-risk
populations, including communities of color and individuals with
disabilities. The Administration continues to urge Congress to act
quickly, as the consequences will continue to get worse in the coming
weeks.

Protecting the American people from COVID-19 now and into the future
relies on affordable and accessible tools like vaccines, treatments,
tests and high-quality masks. Through efforts like COVID.gov and
Test-to-Treat, the Administration continues to take steps to make these
tools even more readily available. Now, we need Congress to do its part
and continue to fund the COVID-19 response.

Today’s announcements include:

**<u>Launch of COVID.gov, A New One-Stop-Shop Website Where Individuals
Can Find Where to Access Vaccines, Tests, Treatments, and High-Quality
Masks. </u>**Today, the Administration launched COVID.gov, a new website
to help people access vaccines, tests, treatments, and high-quality
masks. COVID.gov also provides people an easy way to find the level of
COVID-19 in their community. Early last year, the Administration
launched Vaccines.gov and an associated call line to help people locate
and make appointments at vaccine sites near them. In January of this
year, the Administration launched COVIDTests.gov where people could
order tests and have them shipped to their homes for free. COVID.gov
will allow individuals to access both of these services at one
convenient, easy-to-use website. It will also offer information about
where to find free high-quality masks and, for the first time, where to
access COVID-19 treatments.

COVID.gov will be available in English, Spanish, and Simplified Chinese
and is accessible for those using assistive technologies. The
Administration is also making all of these COVID-19 tools available over
the phone through the National Hotline at 1-800-232-0233 (TTY
1-888-720-7489), which supports over 150 languages. For individuals with
disabilities who may need additional support, the Disability Information
and Access Line (DIAL) is also available to help at 1-888-677-1199 or
via email at DIAL@usaginganddisability.org.   
  
**<u>New Locator Tool to Help Individuals Access the Over 2,000
Test-to-Treat Sites Across the Country.</u> **Today, as part of
COVID.gov, the Administration launched a new Test-to-Treat locator tool
to help the public access lifesaving drugs if they are sick with
COVID-19. President Biden announced in his State of the Union address
the creation of the Test-to-Treat initiative. This program creates
one-stop-shop locations where people can get a COVID-19 test and receive
an oral antiviral treatment, if appropriate for them because they test
positive and face high risks from COVID. Since the launch earlier this
month, there are now over 2,000 Test-to-Treat locations nationwide,
including in pharmacy-based clinics, federally-qualified community
health centers (FQHCs), and long-term care facilities. As has been the
case since December, people can still be tested and treated by their own
health care providers who can appropriately prescribe these oral
antivirals at locations where they are being distributed, now more
easily identified than ever by the Test to Treat locator.    
  
**<u>Test-to-Treat Available for All Patients in Veteran’s Health
Administration and Military Personnel and Their
Families.</u>** Test-to-Treat is now available for all Veterans Affairs
(VA) patients in VA clinics across the country. Linking patients who
test positive with treatments that are appropriate for them is the
standard of care in VA clinics. Each test done in the VA is linked to a
care team, and accompanied by review, patient counseling, and
consideration for treatment indication and eligibility. The VA also
allows individuals with a positive home test result to have a virtual
visit to connect with counseling and to receive oral medication if
appropriate. VA sites have access to oral antiviral treatments for
COVID-19, and treatment generally is provided on site or delivered via
expedited mail. In addition, the Department of Defense (DoD) has made
one-stop Test-to-Treat available at more than 60 DoD Medical Treatment
Facilities (MTFs) across the country, with hundreds more primed to start
operating soon. MTF patients across the country—including active duty
service members and TRICARE beneficiaries—can access Test-to-Treat at
facilities in their communities. 

**Hundreds of Test-to-Treat Locations in FQHCs and Indian Health Service
Facilities Across the Country to Protect Hard-Hit and High-Risk
Communities from COVID-19.**Test-to-Treat locations also are available
in more than 240 FQHCs and Indian Health Service (IHS) Facilities across
the country, ensuring access to lifesaving treatments in some of our
hardest-hit and highest-risk communities. The number of these locations
will continue to grow in the coming weeks, as more and more FQHCs, Rural
Health Clinics, and IHS locations come online with Test-to-Treat
programs. These community providers will continue to serve as trusted
messengers in raising awareness about the availability of lifesaving
treatments, and also partner with community-based organizations to reach
specific high-risk populations, including individuals with disabilities.
