---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2022-03-11'
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/03/11/fact-sheet-united-states-european-union-and-g7-to-announce-further-economic-costs-on-russia/
published_time: 2022-03-11 10:31:55-05:00
title: "FACT SHEET: United\_States, European Union, and G7 to Announce Further Economic\
  \ Costs on\_Russia"
---
 
Today, President Biden and G7 Leaders from Canada, France, Germany,
Italy, Japan, and the United Kingdom as well as the European Union will
announce new economic actions to hold Putin accountable for his
continued assault on Ukraine and further isolate Russia from the global
financial system. Each partner will implement actions consistent with
their national processes.

These actions will collectively ramp up pressure on Putin and build on
the unprecedented package of economic sanctions and export controls the
United States and over 30 countries have already imposed on Russia.
Today, the ruble is trading at its weakest level ever and is worth less
than a penny; the Russian stock market is closed for the longest time in
history; the Russian government’s credit rating has been downgraded to
“junk” status, and we’re seeing a mass exodus from Russia by the private
sector – the result of our historic, multilateral coordination and
commitment to ensure that Putin’s war of choice is a strategic failure.
Russia has now become a global economic and financial pariah.  

Today’s announcements include:

**Revoking Russia’s Most-Favored Nation Status. **President Biden will
work closely with Congress to deny Russia the benefits of its WTO
membership and ensure that Russian imports do not receive most favored
nation treatment in our economy. The United States Congress has
demonstrated bipartisan leadership to revoke Permanent Normal Trade
Relations for Russia, and President Biden looks forward to signing a
bill into law. Together with similar actions by the G7, following our
respective national processes, this collective action by more than half
of the global economy will deliver another serious economic blow to
Russia.

**Denying Borrowing Privileges at Multilateral Financial
Institutions. **The G7 Leaders will agree to ensure Russia cannot obtain
financing from the leading multilateral financial institutions, such as
the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. Russia cannot
grossly violate international law and expect to benefit from being part
of the international economic order.

**Full blocking Sanctions on Additional Russian Elites and their Family
Members**. This includes Yuri Kovalchuk, executives of banks we have
sanctioned, and Duma members who sponsored legislation to recognize the
so-called “Donetsk People’s Republic” and “Luhansk People’s Republic.”
This action will follow up on multiple efforts, along with those of our
allies and partners, to target Russian elites and their family members
who are profiting from this war of choice, and cuts them off from the
U.S. financial system, freezes any assets they hold in the United States
and blocks their travel to the United States. We will work through the
international task force announced on February 26 to pursue the
ill-gotten gains of these elites.  
  
**Ban Export of Luxury Goods to Russia. **President Biden will sign an
Executive Order (E.O) that will end the exportation of luxury items to
any person located in the Russian Federation. This will ensure that U.S.
persons are not providing luxury items, such as high end-watches, luxury
vehicles, high-end apparel, high-end alcohol, jewelry, and other goods
frequently purchased by Russian elites. The U.S. export value of the
products covered by today’s luxury goods restrictions is nearly $550
million per year. The elites who sustain Putin’s war machine should no
longer be able to reap the gains of this system and squander the
resources of the Russian people.

**Ban U.S. Import of Goods from Several Signature Sectors of Russia’s
Economy. **President Biden’s E.O. will also prohibit the import of goods
from several signature sectors of Russia’s economy – including seafood,
spirits/vodka, and non-industrial diamonds. This will deny Russia more
than $1 billion in export revenues and ensure U.S. citizens are not
underwriting Putin’s war. The United States retains the authority to
impose additional import bans as appropriate.

**New guidance by the Department of Treasury to Thwart Sanctions
Evasion, including through Virtual Currency.** The Department of the
Treasury, through new guidance, will continue to make clear that
Treasury’s expansive actions against Russia require all U.S. persons to
comply with sanctions regulations regardless of whether a transaction is
denominated in traditional fiat currency or virtual currency. Treasury
is closely monitoring any efforts to circumvent or violate
Russia-related sanctions, including through the use of virtual currency,
and is committed to using its broad enforcement authorities to act
against violations and to promote compliance.  

**Create the Authority to Ban New Investment in Any Sector of the
Russian Federation Economy**. President Biden has already banned new
U.S. investments in the Russian energy sector. This E.O. will establish
the legal authority for future investment restrictions in any sector of
the Russian economy, as may be determined by the Secretary of the
Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, by a United
States person.

\###
