---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2022-03-24'
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/03/24/joint-statement-by-president-biden-and-president-von-der-leyen/
published_time: 2022-03-24 16:48:35-04:00
title: "Joint Statement by President\_Biden and President von der\_Leyen"
---
 
We are united in our condemnation of Russia’s unjustified and unprovoked
war of aggression against Ukraine. We stand in solidarity with the
Ukrainian people, who are bravely defending their homeland, and we call
on Russia to end the brutal onslaught against its neighbor.  We are
united in our support of Ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial
integrity.  And we are united in our resolve to defend our shared
values, including democracy, respect for human rights, global peace and
stability, and the rules-based international order.   
  
Today, we are continuing coordinated transatlantic efforts to support
the Ukrainian people, impose severe costs on Russia for its
unjustifiable actions, and strengthen the resilience of our democracies,
economies, and societies. In particular,   

-   The United States and the European Union have strengthened and
    aligned their **sanctions regimes**, together with like-minded
    partners across the world. Additionally, efforts should be stepped
    up to coordinate responses against sanctions evasion.  
-   We continue to mobilize and coordinate significant **humanitarian
    relief** to support people within Ukraine, those who have been
    forced to flee, and those affected by the severe impacts Russia’s
    war is causing around the world. This includes more than $1 billion
    in new humanitarian assistance the United States is prepared to
    provide on top of the nearly $300 million already contributed and
    €550 million from the EU.  
-   The United States and the European Union are coordinating closely to
    ensure that their **efforts on temporary protection and humanitarian
    admission, including resettlement or transfers,** are complementary
    and provide much-needed support to Ukraine’s neighbors.  
-   We are announcing new actions to bolster **democratic resilience and
    defend human rights** in Ukraine and neighboring countries.  
-   The United States and the European Union are supporting the work of
    **war crimes documentation experts** who are gathering evidence on
    the ground in Ukraine.  
-   We are taking further, concrete steps in our **energy cooperation**
    to ensure the security of supply and to reduce dependence on Russian
    fossil fuels.  
-   In order to prevent a potential **food crisis** triggered by price
    hikes and disruptions to food supply sparked by Putin’s war in
    Ukraine, we intend to redouble our combined efforts to increase
    global food security and provide direct food aid, where warranted,
    to our partners worldwide.  
-   We will advance our cooperation on **cybersecurity** through a
    variety of actions, from supporting the Government of Ukraine on
    cyber resilience and cyber defense to aiming to combat the abuse of
    virtual currency.

**ANNEX – TRANSATLANTIC COOPERATION AND SUPPORT FOR UKRAINE  
**  
**Imposing Additional Costs on Russia**  
  
The United States and the European Union have strengthened and aligned
their sanctions regimes, together with our like-minded partners across
the world. Today, the United States is sanctioning more than 400
additional individuals and entities to align with measures taken by the
EU and our allies and partners. This includes the Duma (Russia’s lower
house of parliament) and 328 of its members, dozens of defense companies
that fuel Putin’s war machine and sustain its military industrial base,
and more than 20 financial elites, including the head of Russia’s
largest financial institution. The Commission, in line with its
competences, will continue to support further similar measures.
Together, we should aim at holding accountable those responsible for the
devastation and commit to imposing further costs on Russia until Putin
ceases his aggression.  
  
The United States and the European Union are jointly working to blunt
Russia’s ability to deploy its remaining international reserves,
including gold, to prop up its economy and fund its illegal war.  
  
Additionally, as announced in today’s G7 leaders’ statement, we are
establishing an initiative to monitor the full implementation of our
sanctions measures and coordinate responses against sanctions evasion.
This will ensure that Russia will not be able to backfill or find
workarounds that undermine the effect of our sanctions.  
  
**Providing Humanitarian Assistance to the Ukrainian People**  
  
We reaffirm our deep support for the Ukrainian people, who are suffering
from Russia’s devastating bombing of civilians and civilian
infrastructure.  We urge Russia to facilitate unhindered humanitarian
access and permanent safe passage for civilians. We continue to mobilize
humanitarian relief to support people within Ukraine and those who have
been forced to flee.  The United States and the European Union are
responding to the humanitarian needs in Ukraine and in countries
impacted by the situation in Ukraine. The United States and the European
Commission are coordinating closely on the provision of aid, including a
through a newly-established high-level dialogue and a U.S. government
liaison in the EU’s Emergency Response Coordination Centre.  Today, the
United States is announcing it is prepared to provide more than $1
billion in new funding toward humanitarian assistance for those affected
by Russia’s war in Ukraine and its severe impacts around the world over
the coming months. The European Commission has made available EUR 550
million in emergency and humanitarian assistance and, through the Union
Civil Protection Mechanism in cooperation with its partners, it has
delivered almost EUR 300 million worth of in-kind assistance.   
  
**Welcoming Ukrainians Fleeing Violence**  
  
The European Union has generously welcomed almost three and a half
million Ukrainians fleeing Russia’s violence, providing them food,
shelter, school, and employment opportunities, paying particular
attention to the plight of children and providing them protection for
the time they need.  The United States and the European Union are
coordinating closely to ensure that their efforts on temporary
protection and humanitarian admission, including resettlement, are
complementary and provide much-needed support to Ukraine’s neighbors.
Today, the United States is announcing plans to welcome up to 100,000
Ukrainians fleeing Russia’s aggression through the full range of legal
pathways, including the U.S. Refugee Admissions Program.   
  
**Partnering to Promote Democratic Resilience and Human Rights**  
  
We steadfastly support the democratic aspirations and fundamental
freedoms of the Ukrainian people. Today, we are announcing new
commitments to bolster societal resilience and defend human rights in
Ukraine and neighboring countries, including Moldova.  
  
To support human rights defenders, anti-corruption watchdogs,
journalists, and other members of civil society operating in and around
Ukraine, the United States is launching the *European Democratic
Resilience Initiative* (EDRI), which will provide at least $320 million
in new funding to these groups and regional governments. The EDRI will
support media freedom and counter disinformation, benefit the safety and
security of activists and vulnerable groups, strengthen institutions and
the region’s rule of law, and help ensure accountability for human
rights abuses and violations of international law. And it will expand
rapid response capabilities and technical assistance to build resilience
to Moscow’s strategic corruption and kleptocracy.  
  
The European Commission announced plans to reallocate funds from EU
programmes to support civil society organizations, human rights
defenders, journalists, and pro-democracy activists in Ukraine, Belarus
and Moldova. In addition, the European Endowment for Democracy, with EU
funding contributions, provided a significant number of emergency grants
to contribute to saving and sustaining civic activism and media
pluralism in Ukraine. It also opened a Centre for Ukrainian Activists
(CUA) in Przemyśl, Poland, to provide support for activists and
independent journalists in maintaining and sustaining their connections
to their activities inside Ukraine.  
  
**Promoting Accountability  
  
**There should be accountability for any war crimes committed in
Ukraine.  The United States and the European Union are supporting the
important work of war crimes documentation experts who are gathering
evidence on the ground in Ukraine. The coordination of documentation and
evidence preservation efforts to ensure such accountability should be
facilitated.

**Supporting Europe’s Energy Security  
**  
We reconfirm our commitment to Europe’s energy security and to
accelerating the global transition to clean energy. Energy security and
sustainability for the EU and Ukraine are essential for peace, freedom
and democracy in Europe.  The EU has confirmed its objective to reach
independence from Russian gas well before the end of the decade while
working to ensure reliable, affordable, and clean energy supplies to
citizens and businesses in the EU and its neighbourhood.  The United
States intends to partner with the EU on these efforts.  We understand
that the rapid transition to clean energy is essential to advancing EU
independence from Russian fossil fuels and are committed to meeting the
goals of the Paris Agreement, the objective of net zero emissions by
2050, and keeping a 1.5 degrees Celsius limit on temperature rise within
reach.  In line with this vision, the European Commission and United
States will establish a joint Task Force to address the immediate energy
security needs of the EU and accelerate the clean energy transition.   
  
**Securing Global Food Supplies**  
  
We are deeply concerned by how Putin’s war in Ukraine has caused major
disruptions to international food and agriculture supply chains and the
threat it poses to global food security. We recognize that many
countries around the world have relied on imported food staples and
fertilizer inputs from Ukraine and Russia, with Putin’s aggression
disrupting that trade.  As the United States and EU comprise many of the
world’s major agricultural producers and strong economies, we commit to
redoubling our combined efforts to provide direct food aid and other
forms of assistance, where warranted, and, to continue the necessary
support for agricultural innovation and sustainable productivity growth
to ensure global food security, while balancing enhancing climate
resilience and reducing agricultural greenhouse gas emissions.  
  
We are committed to working with partners to address the attendant
supply challenges and maintaining strong, ruled-based, and open global
markets for staple agricultural commodities that feed the world.
Specifically, the United States, through Feed the Future and our
nutrition commitments, is providing over $11 billion over the next five
years to address food security threats and nutrition across the globe. 
Additionally, the United States will remain one of the top providers of
humanitarian food and nutrition assistance globally, having contributed
approximately $4.6 billion in humanitarian food and nutrition assistance
in 2021.  We are also identifying tools in the U.S. government’s
existing food security tool kit and determining whether programs are fit
for purpose for this situation and will make strategic adjustments as
needed.  
  
For the period 2021 – 2024, the EU is pledging at least EUR 2.5 billion
for international cooperation related to nutrition.  This international
cooperation programme will support food systems in about 70 partner
countries. The proposed EU Emergency Support Programme for Ukraine of
EUR 330 million will secure access to basic goods and services for the
Ukrainian population and also support Ukraine’s agricultural sector.  
  
**Ensuring the Security of Cyberspace**  
  
We are committed to advancing our cybersecurity cooperation, both in
response to Russia’s illegal further invasion of Ukraine and in support
of our longer-term strategic objectives.  Together, we will enhance our
efforts to coordinate cybersecurity assistance and provide Internet
access to the Governments of Ukraine and Moldova, working with Member
States and other likeminded partners. In the context of Ukraine and more
generally, we will continue to reinforce responsible state behavior in
cyberspace and to work together to increase cyber resilience in the face
of destructive, disruptive, and destabilizing cyber activity by both
States and non-State actors, while also working to hold accountable
those responsible for such activity.  
  
We will work towards establishing more structured cybersecurity
information exchanges on threats and threat actors and deepen our
cooperation on new cybersecurity technologies and standards.  We are
committed to our partnership in the Counter Ransomware Initiative to
disrupt ransomware groups and reduce related threats to our citizens and
businesses. We will enhance efforts to address the abuse of virtual
currency; bolster cybersecurity resilience; increase partner capacity
for detecting and responding to ransomware activity within their own
borders; and work to jointly hold accountable states that act as safe
havens for ransomware activity.  
  
**Combatting Illicit Use of Digital Assets**  
  
We intend to announce deeper collaboration to combat the illicit use of
digital assets, including their potential misuse in evading multilateral
sanctions imposed in response to Russia’s unprovoked military invasion
of Ukraine.  Together, we intend to deepen our shared commitment to
advance anti-money laundering and countering financing of terrorism
(AML/CFT) for digital assets, consistent with the Financial Action Task
Force (FATF) standards.  
  
We will share best practices and coordinate capacity building efforts to
help other countries implement AML/CFT frameworks for digital assets. We
intend to form a transatlantic sprint between U.S. and EU government
officials and, as appropriate, digital asset service providers, to
expedite and increase sharing of financial intelligence on illicit use
of digital assets. Finally, we will seek opportunities for joint actions
against those who facilitate the misuse of digital assets for illicit
activity.

\###
