---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2022-03-11'
modified_time: 2022-03-11 16:47:46-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/03/11/president-biden-announces-key-appointments-to-the-presidents-committee-for-people-with-intellectual-disabilities/
published_time: 2022-03-11 16:00:00-05:00
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key Appointments to the President\u2019s Committee\
  \ for People with Intellectual\_Disabilities"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Biden announces his intent to appoint the
following individuals to serve as members on the President’s Committee
for People with Intellectual Disabilities:

-   Shawn Aleong
-   Paul Aronsohn
-   Paul Boskind
-   Eva Bunnell
-   James T. Brett
-   Hillary Dunn Stanisz
-   Kara Jones
-   Nicole Jorwic
-   Cathy Kanefsky
-   M. Brent Leonhard
-   Joseph M. Macbeth
-   Gabriel Martinez
-   Lucy Meyer
-   Tia Nelis
-   Santa Perez
-   Nick Perry
-   James Trout
-   Wendy Strauss
-   Liz Weintraub
-   Jordyn Zimmerman

The President’s Committee on People with Intellectual Disabilities
serves as a federal advisor to the President and the Secretary of Health
and Human Services on matters relating to persons with intellectual
disabilities. The Committee has 21 citizens members who serve two-year
terms. Individuals appointed to this Committee reflect the diversity of
America and include people with intellectual disabilities and their
family members, researchers, service providers and other professionals,
community and business representatives, and systems advocates.

**<u>Shawn Aleong, Member, P</u><u>resident’s Committee for People with
Intellectual Disabilities</u>**

Shawn Aleong is a young African American man with cerebral palsy and an
intellectual disability, as well as a disability and civil rights
activist. He is a sophomore at Temple University, where he studies Legal
Studies, Real Estate, and Finance. Aleong serves as Senior Advisor to
Temple Student Government and sits on the Board of Advisers for Temple’s
Institute on Disabilities. He is also an intern at Disability Rights
Pennsylvania and a member of the NAACP. Previously, he was a member of
Philadelphia’s Police Advisory Commission and the Board of Directors for
The Arc of Philadelphia, an organization that advocates for the rights
of people with disabilities.

**<u>Paul Aronsohn</u><u>, Member, President’s Committee for People with
Intellectual Disabilities</u>**

Paul Aronsohn currently serves as New Jersey’s statewide Ombudsman for
Individuals with Intellectual or Developmental Disabilities and Their
Families – a position to which he was appointed by Governor Phil Murphy
in April 2018. As such, he serves as the administration’s lead advocate
and ally for New Jersey residents in need of critical services and
supports ranging from early childhood through adulthood. Aronsohn has
held positions in both the public and private sectors, serving as Mayor
of Ridgewood, NJ as well as at the U.S. Department of State during the
Clinton Administration. Aronsohn’s understanding and passion for
disability issues is rooted in his family experience. He learned so much
from his siblings, including his sister Patti, who lived her life with
disabilities as well as with enormous strength, courage, grace, and
beauty. He also learned from their mother, Margot, who was his sister’s
primary caregiver.

**<u>Paul Boskind</u><u>, Member, President’s Committee for People with
Intellectual Disabilities</u>**

Paul Boskind, PhD is a licensed psychologist and Founder and Chief
Executive Officer of Deer Oaks, a Behavioral Health Organization.
Boskind is a Person with Disability, as he is legally blind. His
doctoral program focused on clinical and school psychology, and his
doctoral dissertation was on adjustment to physical disabilities with a
focus on adjustment to blindness. He has worked with the disabled
population at Helen Keller Services for the Blind, the Epilepsy
Foundation, and the Lighthouse for the Blind. Boskind is experienced in
working with persons with intellectual disabilities across the age span
and in various settings, including day treatment programs, group homes,
sheltered workshops, and school settings. He serves on the Leadership
Council of the Foundation Fighting Blindness, the Advisory Council of
the San Antonio Lighthouse for the Blind, and the Disability Rights
Working Group at the Berkeley Center on Comparative Equality and
Anti-Discrimination Law at UC Berkeley School of Law.

**<u>Eva Bunnell</u><u>, Member, President’s Committee for People with
Intellectual Disabilities</u>**

Eva Bunnell is a proud, former federal staffer. She served in the
congressional office of Representative John B. Larson (CT-01), rising to
District Director, and most recently as a Senior Partnership Specialist
and Congressional & Tribal Regional Lead, New York Census Region, for
the 2020 Census. During her time as a federal employee, she won the John
Joseph Moakley Award for Exemplary Public Service and the U.S. Census
Bureau’s 2020 Bronze Award-Congressional Team. She has also served as
Director of Government Relations for the Connecticut Children’s Medical
Center and as a family advocate for families who have children with
special needs. Bunnell currently serves as President of the Board of
Directors for The Michael Bolton Charities. Bunnell is most proud of
being partner to her husband, Charles, and mom to four children. Her
first child, who passed away at the age of 26, was born with a serious
brain disease that left her profoundly disabled and medically fragile.
Her beautiful daughter, Jacinta, was then-Senator Christopher J. Dodd’s
inspiration for the federal Family and Medical Leave Act. 

**<u>James T. Brett, Member, President’s Committee for People with
Intellectual Disabilities</u>**

James T. Brett has served as the President and Chief Executive Officer
of The New England Council, the nation’s oldest non-partisan regional
business association, since 1996. Brett is a disability rights advocate,
serving as Chairman of both the Massachusetts Governor’s Commission on
Intellectual Disability and the Disabled Persons Protection Commission.
He also serves as Vice Chairman on the National Council on Disability.
Previously, Brett was President of the Board of Directors of the
Massachusetts Association for Mental Health. He was inducted to the
Massachusetts Special Olympics Hall of Fame and bestowed The Edward M.
Kennedy Leadership Award by Disability Law Center. University of
Massachusetts Boston established the James T. Brett Chair, the nation’s
only endowed chair in disability and workforce development. 

**<u>Hillary Dunn Stanisz</u><u>, Member, President’s Committee for
People with Intellectual Disabilities</u>**

Hillary Dunn Stanisz has an older brother with Angelman Syndrome, and,
as a result of this experience, she has devoted her career and volunteer
activities to assisting individuals with disabilities and their
families. Dunn Stanisz is a Senior Attorney at the Disability Law
Center, the Protection and Advocacy agency for Massachusetts, where she
focuses on advocating for appropriate community supports and services
for individuals with intellectual and developmental disabilities and
conducting abuse and neglect investigations. For several years, Dunn
Stanisz served on the Massachusetts Developmental Disabilities Council.
Currently, she serves on the Steering Committee for The Arc of
Massachusetts and as Co-President of the Board of Directors for the
Massachusetts Sibling Support Network. Dunn Stanisz is a graduate of
Northeastern University School of Law and Tufts University.

**<u>Kara Jones</u><u>, Member, President’s Committee for People with
Intellectual Disabilities</u>**

Kara Jones is a member of many self-advocacy groups. These include
Project ACTION!, a regional coalition of self-advocates and
self-advocacy groups from the District of Columbia, Maryland, and
Virginia, and People on the Go of Maryland, a statewide advocacy group
made up of people with intellectual and/or development disabilities.
Jones is also involved in Expectations Matter: My Life, My Plan, My
Choice, which is a Person-Centered Planning Training program for people
with disabilities and family members.

**<u>Nicole Jorwic</u><u>, Member, President’s Committee for People with
Intellectual Disabilities</u>**

Nicole Jorwic is the Chief of Advocacy and Campaigns at Caring Across
Generations. Before joining Caring Across, Jorwic was Senior Director of
Public Policy and Senior Executive Officer of State Advocacy at The Arc
of the United States. Before coming to DC to work on Federal Advocacy,
she served as Senior Policy Advisor and Manager of the Employment First
Initiative in Illinois. Prior to that appointment, Jorwic was the
CEO/President of the Institute on Public Policy for People with
Disabilities. She is also an accomplished special education attorney and
an advocate for students with disabilities and their families. Jorwic is
most importantly a sibling– her brother Chris is 32 and has autism.

**<u>Cathy Kanefsky</u><u>, Member, President’s Committee for People
with Intellectual Disabilities</u>**

Cathy Kanefsky’s personal experiences fuel her passion for serving
mission-driven organizations. Kanefsky and her husband, Carl, have three
sons. Thirty-year-old twins Sam and Adam were born four months early and
live with significant physical and intellectual disabilities, including
autism. Their 28-year-old son, Stephen, and his wife, Alexandra, are
both special education teachers. After 14 years in leadership roles at
the March of Dimes, Kanefsky built and led national field operations for
Autism Speaks. Following five years as Chief Development Officer at A.I.
duPont Hospital for Children, she now serves as the President and CEO of
the Food Bank of Delaware. Her determination to help those seeking a
better future is the foundation for enhancing job training and
employment opportunities at the Food Bank – for all people – including
those with intellectual disabilities.

**<u>M. Brent Leonhard, Member, President’s Committee for People with
Intellectual Disabilities</u>**

M. Brent Leonhard is an Attorney in the Office of Legal Counsel for the
Confederated Tribes of the Umatilla Indian Reservation. He has spent his
career advocating for the advancement and expansion of the rights of
tribal nations and citizens. In 2011, Leonhard was appointed to Attorney
General Eric Holder’s Federal/Tribal Domestic Violence Taskforce. In
2015, he was appointed to the U.S. Sentencing Commission’s Tribal Issues
Advisory Group. As a parent of an Autistic child, he is intimately
familiar with the structural and systemic problems and frustrations
those with intellectual or developmental disabilities face. Leonhard is
intent on advocating for significant improvements to federal law and
policy in this area.

**<u>Joseph M. Macbeth</u><u>, Member, President’s Committee for People
with Intellectual Disabilities</u>**

Joseph M. Macbeth is the President and Chief Executive Officer of the
National Alliance for Direct Support Professionals and the first
employee hired by the organization in 2011. While working in New York,
Macbeth partnered with the State University of New York to assist more
than 500 direct support professionals in advancing their college
education through the “Disability Studies Certificate”. He is a guest
faculty at the National Leadership Consortium on Developmental
Disabilities and currently sits on the College of Direct Support’s
National Advisory Board. In 2016, Macbeth was appointed by as a Member
of the Advisory Council for the New York State Justice Center for the
Protection of People with Special Needs. In 2019, he was appointed by
the Administration for Community Living as a member of the National
Quality Forum’s Committee on Person-Centered Planning and has been
recognized by the National Historic Recognition Project for significant
national contributions in the field of intellectual and developmental
disabilities. 

**<u>Gabriel Martinez</u><u>, Member, President’s Committee for People
with Intellectual Disabilities</u>**

Gabriel “Gabe” Martinez is currently Project Co-Coordinator at the
University of Arizona Sonoran Center for Excellence in Disabilities,
where he has worked as a peer navigator and office assistant for two
years. He is a 2016 graduate of the Sonoran Center’s Project SEARCH, an
employment preparation program. Martinez is a regular speaker and
trainer for webinars, course guest lectures, high school classroom
presentations, medical student education at the UArizona College of
Medicine-Tucson, as well as a co-coordinator of a Native youth focused
transition and employment program called the Finds Their Way:
Communities for Youth Transition. He works as a peer navigator on
multiple projects, including the Transition AHEAD Roundtable, a
comprehensive youth-to-adult transition program. Martinez serves on the
leadership group for Self-Advocacy Solutions and represents the Sonoran
Center on the Association of University Centers on Disabilities’ Council
on Leadership in Advocacy.

**<u>Lucy Meyer</u><u>, Member, President’s Committee for People with
Intellectual Disabilities</u>**

Lucy Meyer is an international advocate for young people with
disabilities. She has worked closely with Special Olympic, Best Buddies,
and UNICEF. She was born with cerebral palsy as a result of oxygen
deprivation for five minutes at birth. Doctors originally indicated that
Lucy might never be able to sit up or swallow, but she proudly states
that the doctors were wrong. Since 2013, she has worked tirelessly to
make sure that young people with disabilities, wherever they are around
the world, receive quality health and education and experience the joy
of sport and participation in society. Her advocacy for the acceptance
and inclusion of young people with disabilities has taken her to the
United Nations, U.S. Congress, as well as meetings with ministers and
officials throughout the world.

**<u>Tia Nelis</u><u>, Member, President’s Committee for People with
Intellectual Disabilities</u>**

Tia Nelis currently serves as Coordinator of Self-Advocate Engagement at
TASH, an international advocacy association of people with disabilities,
their family members, other advocates, and people who work in the
disability field. In this role, she supports the Self Advocacy Resource
and Technical Assistance Center. Nelis previously served as Director of
Policy and Advocacy. Nelis has drawn on her experience as a person with
a disability to promote and demonstrate the benefits of empowering
people with disabilities to effectively advocate for themselves. 

**<u>Santa Perez</u><u>, Member, President’s Committee for People with
Intellectual Disabilities</u>**

Santa Perez is a published author, mother, and self-advocate living with
cerebral palsy in Las Vegas, Nevada. She currently serves as Chair of
the Nevada Governor’s Council on Developmental Disabilities and sits on
numerous councils and committees, including the Executive Board of
National Association of Council on Developmental Disabilities. Perez is
also the Founding Member and President Emeritus of People First Nevada.
She recently published her first book, *Sitting at Eye Level: My Life as
an Advocate, a Professional, a Woman, a Mom and a Person with a
Significant Disability*. She earned her B.A. in Psychology from Cal
State Northridge. She is a proud mother to her son, Noah.

**<u>Nick Perry</u><u>, Member, President’s Committee for People with
Intellectual Disabilities</u>**

Nick Perry is a sibling of a young man with intellectual and
developmental disabilities (I/DD), and he’s also been a foster father to
children with disabilities. Perry has over 25 years of cumulative
experience in the disability field, ranging from disability policy and
implementation to corporate disability inclusion strategy. Currently, he
is the Disability Inclusion subject matter expert for the Boeing
company. Additionally, he is the Chairman of the Georgia Council on
Developmental Disabilities as appointed by Gov. Kemp and leads the
Georgia Sibling Connection, a support and social group for siblings of
individuals with disabilities. 

**<u>James Trout</u><u>, Member, President’s Committee for People with
Intellectual Disabilities</u>**

James Trout was diagnosed with Asperger’s Syndrome when he was 15 years
old and subsequently diagnosed with Dysthymic Disorder at the age of 25.
He received his B.A. from American University in Political Science and
his M.S. from George Mason University in Transportation Policy,
Operation, and Logistics. For the last three years, Trout has worked as
an analyst for SourceAmerica, a nonprofit dedicated to increasing
employment opportunities for persons with disabilities. Previously, he
was a policy fellow for the nonprofit RespectAbility. In this role, he
traveled to Iowa and New Hampshire to speak with Presidential candidates
about their plans to improve job prospects for persons with
disabilities.

**<u>Wendy Strauss</u><u>, Member, President’s Committee for People with
Intellectual Disabilities</u>**

Wendy Strauss has over 40 years of experience working in the human
service field. She recently retired after serving 23 years as the
Executive Director of the Governor’s Advisory Council for Exceptional
Citizens, which seeks to improve the lives of Delawareans of all ages
through advice and advocacy. Throughout her career, Strauss has worked
for and with individuals with disabilities and their families to
positively impact their lives through legislation, policies, and
procedures. She was born and raised in Delaware and received her A.A.
from Delaware Technical and Community College and her B.S. from the
University of Wilmington.

**<u>Liz Weintraub</u><u>, Member, President’s Committee for People with
Intellectual Disabilities</u>**

Liz Weintraub is a disability policy advocate and a full-time member of
the Association of University Centers on Disabilities’ policy team. She
also hosts “Tuesdays With Liz: Disability Policy for All,” a video
series highlighting current issues in disability policy. Previously,
Weintraub served as a fellow for Senator Casey of Pennsylvania, working
on disability policy. She has also worked for the Council on Quality &
Leadership and is an alumnus of the LEND training program at the Center
for Leadership in Disability at Georgia State University. In 2018, she
testified before the Senate Judiciary Committee about her personal
experience as a woman with disabilities.

**<u>Jordyn Zimmerman</u><u>, Member, President’s Committee for People
with Intellectual Disabilities</u>**

Jordyn Zimmerman is a recent graduate from Boston College, where she
earned her Masters of Education. Before graduate school, she interned at
the National Disability Rights Network and completed her bachelor’s
degree in Education Policy at Ohio University. As a nonspeaking autistic
student who was denied access to effective augmentative communication
until she was 18, Zimmerman has personal experience challenging the
educational status quo, which is featured in the 2021 documentary, *This
Is Not About Me*. Zimmerman also serves on the board of
CommunicationFIRST and is passionate about ensuring every student is
able to access effective communication and exercise their right to a
truly inclusive education.

**\###**
