---
category: statements-releases
date: '2022-03-11'
modified_time: 2022-03-11 16:25:16-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/03/11/president-biden-announces-key-appointments-to-the-presidents-advisory-committee-on-the-arts/
published_time: 2022-03-11 16:00:00-05:00
title: "President Biden Announces Key Appointments to the President\u2019s Advisory\
  \ Committee on the Arts"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Biden announces his intent to appoint the
following individuals to serve as members on the President’s Advisory
Committee on the Arts:

-   Eugene William Stetson III, Chair
-   Andi Bernstein
-   Christopher Carrera
-   Barbaralee Diamonstein-Spielvogel
-   Barbara Gamson
-   Melissa Hedden
-   Lorna Johnson
-   Bonnie Lautenberg
-   Allison Putala
-   Sunil Puri
-   Charlie Pohlad
-   Diane Robertson
-   Thomas Safran
-   Andrew Tavakoli

Established in 1958 by President Eisenhower, the President’s Advisory
Committee on the Arts (PACA) has played a valuable role in sustaining
the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, the National
Cultural Center. Members of the Committee are civic and cultural leaders
who are selected by the President of the United States to serve as
representatives in their own communities for the Kennedy Center. The
Center considers PACA appointees to be “Ambassadors for the Arts.”
Acting as a national network for the Center, the PACA helps to broaden
the Center’s influence and extend its vision across the country. The
Committee serves as a national forum, giving its members the opportunity
to share with the Kennedy Center their views on the Center’s artistic
programming.  
  
**Eugene William Stetson III, Chair, President’s Advisory Committee on
the Arts**  
Eugene William Stetson III has been a film producer, a political, arts
and environmental adviser for over 40 years. Stetson is currently a
Senior Fellow at The Atlantic Council, where he serves on the climate
cohort at the Global Energy Center. Under President Obama, he was a
member of PACA and later co-chaired the Kennedy Center’s Mark Twain
Prize with his wife, Jane Watson Stetson. Stetson has served Governors
Howard Dean, James Douglas and Peter Shumlin as a member of their
Councils on Energy & the Environment.  He has served on Vermont Public
Radio/Vermont PBS, the Harvard University Center for the Environment,
and the Connecticut River Conservancy. He is a Trustee and Governor for
the Smith Richardson Foundation, a foundation dedicated to addressing
domestic and international public policy challenges. He established the
Vermont Film Commission, serving as its founding President. Stetson has
produced numerous independent films, most notably A Closer Walk, which
highlights the impact of the AIDS epidemic on women. Stetson earned his
bachelor’s degree from Harvard University, where he was appointed a
Fellow to the Institute of Politics. He also attended the Harvard
Graduate School of Arts and Sciences.  
  
**Andi Bernstein, Member, President’s Advisory Committee on the Arts**  
Andi Bernstein has worked across a spectrum of industries including
finance, media and technology and the arts. She specializes in start-ups
and new and emerging businesses, having held key roles on the founding
teams of both Oxygen Media and Compass. She is also the founder and CEO
of Beach Walk Media, a diversified media company that produces Emmy
Award-winning content across different platforms, including most
recently, *Obama: In Pursuit of a More Perfect Union* (HBO). She is
currently a Partner at The 98, a venture capital firm investing in
tech-enabled, women-led businesses. Andi is a longstanding Board member
of The Public Theater, and a member of both The Storytelling Committee
for the Obama Presidential Center and the Advisory Board of One
Nation/One Project. Andi graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Princeton
University (1980) with a B.A. from the Princeton School of Public and
International Affairs. She lives in New York City with her husband and
three children.  
  
**Christopher Carrera, Member, President’s Advisory Committee on the
Arts**  
Christopher J. Carrera is President of Carrera-Willowbridge, LLC. He was
previously a Partner in the Fixed Income, Currencies and Commodities
Division at Goldman, Sachs & Co. where he began his career as a summer
intern in high school. Carrera serves on the board of the FDNY
Foundation and is Treasurer of his co-op building. He graduated from the
University of Pennsylvania and was a former member of the Board of
Overseers of the College of Arts and Sciences. Carrera also served as a
Trustee of Riverdale Country School.  
  
**Barbaralee Diamonstein-Spielvogel, Member, President’s Advisory
Committee on the Arts**  
Barbaralee Diamonstein-Spielvogel is an advocate for the arts,
architecture, preservation, design, and public policy. At the White
House, she helped create the White House Fellows and the Presidential
Scholars programs, as well as the first and only White House Festival of
the Arts in 1965. Diamonstein-Spielvogel was the first Director of
Cultural Affairs for New York City and the longest-serving Commissioner
of the NYC Landmarks Preservation Foundation. Previous presidential
appointments include the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum, the U.S.
Commission of Fine Arts, and the American Battle Monuments Commission.
She has also served on the New York State Council on the Arts. The
recipient of numerous honors and awards, Diamonstein-Spielvogel earned
her doctorate with high honors from New York University. She is the
author of 24 books about art, architecture, photography, crafts, design,
and public policy. Diamonstein-Spielvogel serves on numerous, diverse,
cultural and community-oriented boards. She currently serves as the
Chair of the Diamonstein-Spielvogel Foundation.  
  
**Barbara Gamson, Member, President’s Advisory Committee on the Arts**  
A native Houstonian, Barbara Goot Gamson is a passionate supporter of
contemporary art. Pursuant to her belief that the arts and humanities
contribute to the vibrancy of society, promote social awareness, foster
dialogue and curiosity, and nurture creative and critical thinking, she
is integrally involved in the visual arts community in Houston, Texas;
Aspen, Colorado; and around the United States. Barbara serves as Trustee
for The Menil Collection in Houston, the Museum of Fine Arts Houston,
and the Aspen Art Museum, and is a National Committee Member of the
Whitney Museum of American Art in New York. Barbara resides in Houston,
Texas with her husband Michael. Their two daughters, Emma and Carly,
also share their love for the arts.  
  
**Melissa Hedden, Member, President’s Advisory Committee on the Arts**  
A second-generation Greek American from Canton, Ohio, Melissa Hedden is
the daughter of an educator and a retired Common Pleas Court Judge.
Hedden has been on the Ohio Democratic Party’s Executive Committee for
fourteen years and served as a delegate to the 2012, 2016 and 2020
Democratic Conventions. Hedden also chairs the Central Ohio Diabetes
Association Women’s Board, hosts events for the Cystic Fibrosis
Foundation, and serves as development Chair for the Childhood League.
Hedden graduated from Bowling Green State University with a B.S. in
Business Education and Spanish.  
  
**Lorna Johnson, Member, President’s Advisory Committee on the Arts**  
Lorna Mae Johnson is a fierce and proven successful entrepreneur and
philanthropist, Chair and CEO of LMJ Global Enterprises, and host of
podcasts’ “Live with Lorna.” She is a committee member of the White
House Historical Association, former Assistant Treasurer of the DNC, and
an appointee of President Obama. Lorna is a graduate from the University
of Southern California (USC) and former clinical Professor and Lecturer
at UCLA. Crowned Queen Mother in Ghana in 2019, Lorna is a globally
recognized speaker on issues surrounding women, girls, and finance and
has worked alongside Melinda Gate as an Essayist with the UN Foundation
for Women and Girls. An Olympic qualifying athlete in the 100-meter
dash, Lorna Mae Johnson holds no bounds on what she can accomplish.  
  
**Bonnie Lautenberg, Member, President’s Advisory Committee on the
Arts**  
Bonnie Lautenberg is a business woman, author of a new book on her late
husband, Senator Frank R. Lautenberg (D-NJ), a supporter of the arts, an
art collector, photographer and a conceptual artist. She has her first
solo show of a conceptual art project called Artistica!,opening at the
Boca Raton Museum in 2022. She is presently in an exhibition on the
Pandemic at the New York Historical Society. Her work is in six museum
collections including the Library of Congress and the African American
Museum of History and Culture. She is on the International Directors
Council at the Guggenheim Museum and is a co-producer of a new musical
on the life of Andy Warhol that will open in 2023.  
  
**Allison Putala, Member, President’s Advisory Committee on the Arts**  
Allison Kaminsky Putala is from Georgia and is a graduate of American
University. She holds a BA in Public Communications and an MA in Public
Affairs and Journalism. Mrs. Kaminsky Putala served in many positions at
NBC Network News including the Today Show, Nightly News and Dateline.
She founded Kaminsky Putala Public Relations in 2008, providing clients
with targeted media placement and effective media presentation. As a
board member of N Street Village, Allison advised on media strategies
for Washington’s leading non-profit provider of services to homeless
women. She lives in Washington, DC with her husband and their daughter
and son.  
  
**Sunil Puri, Member, President’s Advisory Committee on the Arts**  
Sunil Puri is CEO and Founder of First Midwest Group, a national real
estate firm active in residential, commercial, and industrial
development. Founded in 1984, FMG has expanded into the hotel,
restaurant, self-storage, and gaming industries. Sunil has been active
in venture capital and other private equity investment domestically and
in Africa, South America, and Asia for over two decades. An immigrant
from India who came to the U.S. in 1979, Sunil is a long-standing
advocate for social equity and immigration issues, and previously served
as a commissioner for President Obama on the White House Commission on
Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders. The Puri Family is also highly
active in philanthropy, notably with the creation of the Puri School of
Business at Rockford University in 2014.  
  
**Charlie Pohlad, Member, President’s Advisory Committee on the Arts**  
Charlie Pohlad serves as Director at Pohlad Investment Management, LLC,
the investment arm of Pohlad Companies. Mr. Pohlad serves on the Board
of Trustees of Dia Art Foundation in New York and the Walker Art Center
in Minneapolis, and is actively involved with several other arts
organizations in Los Angeles, New York and London. He is also a member
of the Pohlad Family Foundation Third Generation Board, responsible for
annual grants to organizations serving the greater Twin Cities metro
area. Mr. Pohlad resides in Minneapolis and New York City.   
  
**Diane Robertson, Member, President’s Advisory Committee on the
Arts**  
Diane M. Robertson lives in Carrboro, North Carolina, where she is a
proprietor of a horticultural design firm and plays an integral role in
the state’s voting rights initiative. She is an award-winning
documentary film producer and serves on nonprofit boards for arts and
civic organizations that include the North Carolina Humanities Council,
Playmakers Repertory Company, East Coast Greenways, Planned Parenthood
South Atlantic, and the NAACP. She has committed her time and efforts to
the boards of Democracy North Carolina, and the Southern Documentary
Fund, where she also served as Interim Executive Director. She also
served as the Director of Development for the American Dance Festival.
Ms. Robertson was born in Jamaica, West Indies, and grew up in Queens,
NY. She studied history at Case Western Reserve University in Ohio and
pursued a graduate degree in Latin American history at Indiana
University. She lived in the Rio Grande Valley, before moving to North
Carolina, where she raised her family. She is motivated every day by her
belief that she should leave the world a better place for her
grandchildren and future generations.  
  
**Thomas Safran, Member, President’s Advisory Committee on the Arts**  
Thomas Safran is the Founder & Chair of Thomas Safran & Associates,
developers and managers of multifamily residential housing and mixed-use
projects, specializing in affordable housing for lower income seniors
and families. It owns and manages over 6,000 units of rental housing as
well as commercial retail space mostly in the greater Los Angeles area.
Tom has a Bachelor’s Degree from Trinity College in Hartford, CT, and an
MBA from UCLA.  Prior to establishing his own company in l974, he held
various positions over a five-year period with the Los Angeles Area,
Chicago Regional, and Washington, D.C. Central offices of the federal
Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). Safran has been on
the Board of a variety of organizations over the years including the
Music Center of Los Angeles.  
  
**Andrew Tavakoli, Member, President’s Advisory Committee on the
Arts**  
Andrew Tavakoli is the Principal and CEO of Tavaco Properties, the
holding company for a portfolio of commercial real estate nationwide.
Andrew earned his BSEE degree in computer systems from University of
Pittsburg in 1981, MBA in marketing from CSULB in 1983, and MSBA in
finance from University of Southern California (USC) in 1986. Mr.
Tavakoli holds investment positions in dozens of companies under the
umbrella of Tavaco Capital Management, a private equity firm. Tavakoli
serves on the USC Marshall school of business board of leaders. He is
the chair of development committee as a board member of the Los Angeles
World Affairs Council (LAWAC), and a board member of the Cedars Sinai
Medical Center, the second largest medical center in California. As a
Philanthropist, Mr. Tavakoli supports number of other charitable
organizations.  
