---
category: statements-releases
date: '2022-03-24'
modified_time: 2022-03-24 09:29:48-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/03/24/statement-from-president-biden-on-the-extraordinary-nato-summit/
published_time: 2022-03-24 09:29:47-04:00
title: Statement from President Biden on the Extraordinary NATO Summit
---
 
NATO leaders met today on the one-month anniversary of Russia’s
unprovoked and unjustified invasion of Ukraine to reiterate our strong
support for the Ukrainian people, our determination to hold Russia
accountable for its brutal war, and our commitment to strengthening the
NATO Alliance. We had the privilege of hearing directly from President
Zelenskyy, and we will continue to support him and his government with
significant, and increasing, amounts of security assistance to fight
Russian aggression and uphold their right to self-defense.

In the past few weeks, the United States has announced $1 billion in new
security assistance to Ukraine — anti-aircraft systems, anti-armor
weapons, drones, and millions of rounds of ammunition. I welcome the
steps by many other Allies to provide defensive support to Ukraine and
together, we are committed to identifying additional equipment,
including air defense systems, to help Ukraine.

We also discussed our work to bolster NATO’s collective defense,
particularly on the Eastern flank. Our joint statement today makes clear
that NATO is as strong and united as it has ever been. Immediately after
Russia’s further invasion of Ukraine, we activated NATO’s defensive
plans and the NATO Response Force. The United States has surged
thousands of forces and additional capabilities to Europe, and we have
welcomed the new deployments made by our Allies. Today’s establishment
of four new battle groups in Slovakia, Romania, Bulgaria, and Hungary is
a strong signal that we will collectively defend and protect every inch
of NATO territory. Between now and the NATO summit in June, we will
develop plans for additional forces and capabilities to
strengthen NATO’s defenses. We will adopt an updated Strategic Concept
to ensure NATO is ready to meet any challenge in the new and more
dangerous security environment.

\###
