---
category: statements-releases
date: '2022-03-30'
modified_time: 2022-03-31 10:14:08-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/03/30/readout-of-vice-president-harriss-meeting-with-prime-minister-holness-of-jamaica/
published_time: 2022-03-30 19:09:00-04:00
title: "Readout of Vice President Harris\u2019s Meeting with Prime Minister Holness\
  \ of\_Jamaica"
---
 
Vice President Kamala Harris met today with Prime Minister Andrew
Holness of Jamaica. The Vice President underscored that the U.S.-Jamaica
partnership is a priority for the Biden-Harris Administration and that
this year, the 60<sup>th</sup> anniversary of diplomatic ties between
our two nations, we are committed to strengthening our ties. The Vice
President noted that we will continue to work with Jamaica and our
Caribbean neighbors to address regional and global challenges and to
support the prosperity and security of the people in our Hemisphere.

The two leaders discussed economic recovery and inclusive growth, and
the Vice President was pleased to inform the Prime Minister that the
United States, through the Department of Agriculture, is moving forward
on $20 million of investment over 5 years to strengthen and expand key
industries for Jamaica. The Vice President reiterated that we are
working to expand Jamaican exports and productivity, which will help
Jamaica and the Caribbean as they recover from the impact of the
COVID-19 pandemic. They also discussed assistance to Jamaica to address
the pandemic, and the Vice President noted the U.S. will continue to
provide COVID-19 recovery support to Jamaica. Since the beginning of the
pandemic, the United States has donated 618,000 vaccine doses to Jamaica
and provided $12.3 million to support its pandemic response.

The leaders discussed the issue of security and human capital. In
recognition that crime prevention is a priority for Jamaica, the Vice
President informed the Prime Minister that the U.S. will provide $10
million to support violence reduction projects targeting at-risk youth.
The assistance will be implemented under the Caribbean Basin Security
Initiative.

The leaders also discussed the climate crisis, and areas where we could
partner moving forward, specifically on strengthening climate resilience
and accelerating the transition to clean energy. The leaders welcomed
the close people-to-people ties between our countries, the vibrant
Jamaican-American community, and our common values.

\###
