---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2022-03-23'
modified_time: 2022-03-22 14:25:02-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/03/23/statement-by-president-joe-biden-on-the-12th-anniversary-of-the-affordable-care-act/
published_time: 2022-03-23 09:00:00-04:00
title: "Statement by President Joe\_Biden on the 12th Anniversary of the Affordable\
  \ Care\_Act"
---
 
Twelve years ago, I proudly stood beside President Barack Obama as he
signed into law the most consequential expansion of health care in
generations: the Affordable Care Act. With the stroke of a pen — after
decades of tireless efforts — millions of Americans gained peace of
mind. And because of my Administration’s efforts, including passing the
landmark American Rescue Plan, we have lowered health care costs and
made coverage more accessible than ever before — even amid a global
pandemic.

The ACA delivered quality, affordable health coverage to more than 30
million Americans — giving families the freedom and confidence to pursue
their dreams without the fear that one accident or illness would
bankrupt them. This law is the reason we have protections for
pre-existing conditions in America. It is why women can no longer be
charged more simply because they are women. It reduced prescription drug
costs for nearly 12 million seniors. It allows millions of Americans to
get free preventive screenings, so they can catch cancer or heart
disease early — saving countless lives. And it is the reason why parents
can keep children on their insurance plans until they turn 26.

When I ran for President, I promised I would protect and build on
Obamacare — and that’s exactly what my Administration has done. Thanks
to the American Rescue Plan, ACA premiums are at an all-time low, while
enrollment is at an all-time high. Four out of five Americans can find
quality coverage for under $10 a month, and families are saving an
average of $2,400 on their annual premiums — that’s $200 in savings
every month that families can spend on gas, groceries, and other
necessities. We lowered costs and increased enrollment to a record high
14.5 million Americans gaining quality health coverage last year —
including nearly 6 million who enrolled for the first time — with an
additional 18.7 million low-income Americans now covered by Medicaid
expansion. We’ve also reached communities that have historically been
left behind, with the HealthCare.gov enrollment rate increasing by 26
percent for Hispanic Americans and 35 percent for Black Americans.

We’ve made tremendous progress, but our work is far from over. Over the
last 12 years, Republicans in Congress have voted more than 70 times to
repeal the ACA, with no real plan to replace it. Just this year, a
Republican senator shared his plan to repeal the ACA, strip protections
from the 100 million Americans with pre-existing conditions, and jack up
premiums. As Republicans try to raise health care costs for the middle
class, Congressional Democrats and I will do everything in our power to
protect and build on Obamacare’s landmark achievements.

\###
