---
category: statements-releases
date: '2022-03-11'
modified_time: 2022-03-11 11:30:00-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/03/11/joint-statement-by-the-g7-announcing-further-economic-costs-on-russia/
published_time: 2022-03-11 11:28:34-05:00
title: Joint Statement by the G7 Announcing Further Economic Costs on Russia
---
 
We the Leaders of the Group of Seven (G7) remain resolved to stand with
the Ukrainian people and government who heroically resist Russian
President Vladimir Putin’s military aggression and war of choice against
their sovereign nation. This unprovoked and unjustified attack is
causing enormous suffering and a tragic loss of life, including through
the increasingly indiscriminate bombing and shelling of civilians in
schools, homes, and hospitals.

We are united in our determination to hold President Putin and his
regime accountable for this unjustified and unprovoked war that has
already isolated Russia in the world. The world should join together in
calling on President Putin and his regime to immediately stop its
ongoing assault against Ukraine and withdraw its military forces. We
stand in solidarity with those who are bravely opposing the invasion of
Ukraine.

We urge Russia to ensure safe and unhindered humanitarian access to
victims of its assault in Ukraine, and to allow safe passage for
civilians wishing to leave. We call for, and commit to provide,
humanitarian, medical and financial support to refugees from Ukraine.

Since President Putin launched the Russian Federation’s invasion on
February 24, our countries have imposed expansive restrictive measures
that have severely compromised Russia’s economy and financial system, as
evidenced by the massive market reactions. We have collectively isolated
key Russian banks from the global financial system; blunted the Central
Bank of Russia´s ability to utilise its foreign reserves; imposed
sweeping export bans and controls that cut Russia off from our advanced
technologies; and targeted the architects of this war, that is Russian
President Vladimir Putin and his accomplices, as well as the Lukashenko
regime in Belarus.

In addition to announced plans, we will make further efforts to reduce
our reliance on Russian energy, while ensuring that we do so in an
orderly fashion and in ways that provide time for the world to secure
alternative and sustainable supplies. In addition, private sector
companies are leaving Russia with unprecedented speed and solidarity. We
stand with our companies that are seeking an orderly withdrawal from the
Russian market.

We remain resolved to isolate Russia further from our economies and the
international financial system. Consequently, we commit to taking
further measures as soon as possible in the context of our ongoing
response and consistent with our respective legal authorities and
processes:

First, we will endeavor, consistent with our national processes, to take
action that will deny Russia Most-Favoured-Nation status relating to key
products. This will revoke important benefits of Russia’s membership of
the World Trade Organization and ensure that the products of Russian
companies no longer receive Most-Favoured-Nation treatment in our
economies. We welcome the ongoing preparation of a statement by a broad
coalition of WTO members, including the G7, announcing their revocation
of Russia’s Most-Favoured-Nation status.

Second, we are working collectively to prevent Russia from obtaining
financing from the leading multilateral financial institutions,
including the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank and the
European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Russia cannot grossly
violate international law and expect to benefit from being part of the
international economic order. We welcome the IMF and World Bank Group’s
rapid and ongoing efforts to get financial assistance to Ukraine. We
also welcome the steps the OECD has taken to restrict Russia’s
participation in relevant bodies.

Third, we commit to continuing our campaign of pressure against Russian
elites, proxies and oligarchs close to President Putin and other
architects of the war as well as their families and their enablers. We
commend the work done by many of our governments to identify and freeze
mobile and immobile assets belonging to sanctioned individuals and
entities, and resolve to continue this campaign of pressure as a matter
of priority. To that end, we have operationalised the task force
announced on February 26, which will target the assets of Russian elites
close to President Putin and the architects of his war. Our sanctions
packages are carefully targeted so as not to impede the delivery of
humanitarian assistance.

Fourth, we commit to maintaining the effectiveness of our restrictive
measures, to cracking down on evasion and to closing loop-holes.
Specifically, in addition to other measures planned to prevent evasion,
we will ensure that the Russian state and elites, proxies and oligarchs
cannot leverage digital assets as a means of evading or offsetting the
impact of international sanctions, which will further limit their access
to the global financial system. It is commonly understood that our
current sanctions already cover crypto-assets. We commit to taking
measures to better detect and interdict any illicit activity, and we
will impose costs on illicit Russian actors using digital assets to
enhance and transfer their wealth, consistent with our national
processes.

Fifth, we are resolved to fighting off the Russian regime’s attempts to
spread disinformation. We affirm and support the right of the Russian
people to free and unbiased information.

Sixth, we stand ready to impose further restrictions on exports and
imports of key goods and technologies on the Russian Federation, which
aim at denying Russia revenues and at ensuring that our citizens are not
underwriting President Putin’s war, consistent with national processes.
We note that international companies are already withdrawing from the
Russian market. We will make sure that the elites, proxies and oligarchs
that support President Putin’s war are deprived of their access to
luxury goods and assets. The elites who sustain Putin’s war machine
should no longer be able to reap the gains of this system, squandering
the resources of the Russian people.

Seventh, Russian entities directly or indirectly supporting the war
should not have access to new debt and equity investments and other
forms of international capital. Our citizens are united in the view that
their savings and investments should not fund the companies that
underpin Russia’s economy and war machine. We will continue working
together to develop and implement measures that will further limit
Russia’s ability to raise money internationally.

We stand united and in solidarity with our partners, including
developing and emerging economies, which unjustly bear the cost and
impact of this war, for which we hold President Putin, his regime and
supporters, and the Lukashenko regime, fully responsible. Together, we
will work to preserve stability of energy markets as well as food
security globally as Russia’s invasion threatens Ukraine’s capacity to
grow crops this year.

We continue to stand with the Ukrainian people and the Government of
Ukraine. We will continue to evaluate the impacts of our measures,
including on third countries, and are prepared to take further measures
to hold President Putin and his regime accountable for his attack on
Ukraine.

\###
