---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2022-03-10'
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/03/10/joint-statement-by-president-joseph-r-biden-jr-of-the-united-states-and-president-ivan-duque-marquez-of-the-republic-of-colombia-u-s-colombia-bicentennial-partnership/
published_time: 2022-03-10 19:30:21-05:00
title: "Joint Statement by President Joseph R. Biden Jr. of the United\_States and\
  \ President Iv\xE1n Duque M\xE1rquez of the Republic of Colombia U.S.-Colombia Bicentennial\_\
  Partnership"
---
 
We met today to commemorate 200 years of diplomatic relations and to
outline a vision for the future for the U.S.-Colombia relationship based
on shared prosperity, social equity, the defense of human rights and
fundamental freedoms, and the reaffirmation of the hemispheric consensus
in favor of democracy enshrined in the Inter-American Democratic
Charter.

The United States intends to designate Colombia as a Major Non-NATO Ally
in recognition of our uniquely close cooperation in the hemisphere,
Colombia’s significant contributions as a NATO Global Partner, its
commitment to NATO’s mission to promote democratic values and commitment
to the peaceful resolution of disputes, and its rejection of Russia’s
unprovoked and unjustifiable aggression against Ukraine.

We committed to expanding longstanding bilateral security cooperation,
into a strategic partnership with positive bilateral, regional, and
global implications. Recognizing that strengthening Colombia’s security
is in the national security interest of the United States, we agreed to
sustain robust cooperation to combat terrorism and transnational
criminal actors, including drug trafficking and the smuggling and
trafficking of people, as well as the malign influence of external
actors.

We committed to advance our broader drug policy strategy, with a
holistic approach to counternarcotics focused on expanding access to
evidence-based prevention, treatment, harm reduction, and recovery
support services, as well as reducing the supply of illicit drugs
through renewed efforts that link eradication, interdiction, drug demand
reduction, anti-money laundering efforts and robust rule of law
institutions. Our comprehensive approach will combine rural security and
development efforts and work to consolidate and sustain peace
implementation and reconciliation programs, while ensuring that criminal
actors are brought to justice.

In the face of sustained challenges to democracy and universal human
rights around the world, we recognized the need for our governments to
demonstrate that democracy can deliver to improve the lives of our
citizens by cracking down on corruption and promoting transparency, by
ensuring a green and equitable recovery to the COVID-19 pandemic. The
crisis in Venezuela is a regional challenge and we commit to support the
restoration of democracy as necessary to bring an end to the political,
economic, and humanitarian crises.  In our continued efforts to end the
COVID-19 pandemic worldwide, the United States announced the donation of
an additional two million vaccine doses to Colombia, including for
displaced and migrant communities. 

We agreed to prioritize investments in our shared prosperity through the
Build Back Better World initiative focused on climate change, health and
health technology, digital connectivity, and gender equity. Further, we
committed to ensuring that the future of U.S.-Colombia cooperation is
guided by a continued commitment to environmental and social justice, as
well as racial equity and a respect for human rights. 

Finally, we agreed to work on a new framework for how nations throughout
the hemisphere collectively manage migration. The current migrant crisis
is bigger than any one country and any one border. This is a moment that
calls us all to action. The United States and Colombia urge leaders
across the Americas to join us in developing a Regional Declaration on
Migration and Protection. The Americas have a rich tradition of
welcoming refugees and immigrants and showing solidarity with our
neighbors. Working hand in hand, we can overcome this current crisis and
truly set an example for the rest of the world.

\###
