---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2022-03-01'
modified_time: 2022-03-01 22:03:43-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/03/01/fact-sheet-addressing-addiction-and-the-overdose-epidemic/
published_time: 2022-03-01 22:03:42-05:00
title: "FACT SHEET: Addressing Addiction and the Overdose\_Epidemic"
---
 
Drug overdose deaths have reached a historic high, devastating families
and communities. More than 104,000 Americans died due to a drug overdose
in the [12-month period ending in September
2021](https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/nvss/vsrr/drug-overdose-data.htm). We
grieve these losses, and commit to continuing our work to save lives.

Tonight, President Biden outlined the decisive actions his
Administration is taking to address addiction and the overdose epidemic
and laid out a vision for how his Administration will continue to expand
evidence-based prevention, harm reduction, treatment, recovery, and
supply reduction approaches to save lives. These efforts are bringing
together Republicans and Democrats across the country because every
community has been affected.

Specifically, the President outlined his comprehensive approach,
including:

***Increasing Funding for Public Health and Supply Reduction***

According to the [2020 National Survey on Drug Use and
Health](https://www.samhsa.gov/newsroom/press-announcements/202110260320#:~:text=The%20Substance%20Abuse%20and%20Mental%20Health%20Services%20Administration,had%20a%20negative%20impact%20on%20the%20nation%E2%80%99s%20well-being.),
40.3 million people aged 12 or older had a past-year substance use
disorder. Meanwhile, more than four out of five Americans who need
treatment for illicit drug use do not receive it. Mental health and
substance use disorder services have been under-resourced for far too
long, and the COVID-19 pandemic has placed an even greater burden on the
system. The American Rescue Plan, which delivered nearly $4 billion to
these services, was a down payment to support life-saving interventions.
The President’s FY2022 budget request includes a historic $41 billion
for drug policy efforts that will further these efforts. Specifically,
the President is calling for:  

-   A historic proposed investment of $10.7 billion in discretionary
    funding for the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to
    fund research, prevention, harm reduction, treatment, and recovery
    support services, with a focus on meeting the needs of populations
    at greatest risk for overdose and substance use disorder. The
    President’s FY2022 budget proposes a total of $23.5 billion for
    public health approaches to reduce drug use and its consequences.

<!-- -->

-   A proposed investment of $5.8 billion for interdiction efforts,
    which is an increase from the FY2021 enacted level. This funding
    would help reduce the availability of illicit drugs in the United
    States and abroad through air and maritime seizures; enhancement of
    drug source nations’ ability to interdict drugs; and efforts along
    the nation’s borders to stop the trafficking of illicit drugs,
    weapons, and bulk currency. The President’s FY2022 budget proposes a
    total of $17.5 billion for supply reduction efforts.

***Removing Barriers to Treatment***

Medication for opioid use disorder (MOUD), such as buprenorphine and
methadone, is a safe and effective treatment. However, most Americans
who need treatment for an opioid use disorder do not get it. That is why
President Biden has called for universal access to MOUD by 2025. To
reach this goal, the Administration has advanced actions that remove
unnecessary barriers that prevent medical providers from prescribing
FDA-approved medications to their patients; lifted the moratorium on
mobile vans providing methadone; supported states funding the purchase
of such vans; and begun work on meeting individual treatment needs at
times when people at high risk for an overdose need care and support.

-   To further reduce burdens in accessing MOUD, the President supports
    eliminating outdated rules that place unnecessary administrative
    burdens on providers, discouraging them from prescribing effective
    treatments for addiction. The Administration will increase awareness
    and understanding of these medications so that patients and
    providers can make informed choices. This builds on last year’s
    action by HHS to
    [release](https://www.hhs.gov/about/news/2021/04/27/hhs-releases-new-buprenorphine-practice-guidelines-expanding-access-to-treatment-for-opioid-use-disorder.html) new
    Practice Guidelines for the Administration of Buprenorphine for
    Treating Opioid Use Disorder, which exempted eligible health care
    providers from Federal certification requirements related to
    training, counseling and other ancillary services that are part of
    the process for obtaining a waiver to treat up to 30 patients with
    buprenorphine. This action resulted in more providers registering to
    prescribe buprenorphine, thereby expanding access to evidence-based
    treatment.

<!-- -->

-   The Administration has extended and will propose making permanent
    the emergency provisions implemented during the COVID-19 pandemic
    concerning MOUD authorizations. This includes ongoing work allowing
    providers to begin treating patients with MOUD via telehealth,
    including by audio only, as well as the Substance Abuse and Mental
    Health Services Administration
    (SAMHSA) [announcement](https://www.samhsa.gov/newsroom/press-announcements/202111181000)
    extending the methadone take-home flexibilities for one year,
    effective upon the eventual expiration of the COVID-19 Public Health
    Emergency.

<!-- -->

-   Over the next year, the Administration plans to establish a set of
    hospital recommendations for overdose care and care coordination and
    create a model state law. Individuals who have experienced a
    non-fatal overdose are at greater risk of a fatal opioid overdose. 
    Hospital emergency departments (EDs) offer a unique setting to
    initiate treatment, provide naloxone, and connect patients with peer
    support services.

<!-- -->

-   The Administration is working to expand MOUD throughout Federal
    incarcerated settings, in order to set an example for state and
    local jurisdictions. In conjunction with this effort, educational
    efforts will take place to support state and local jurisdictions in
    understanding the evidence and benefits of MOUD and community care
    connections upon release from incarceration – a time when
    individuals are at the highest risk for overdose. Recognizing that
    the prohibition of the use of federal funds for services behind bars
    acts is a barrier to states and counties in implementing
    evidence-based practices, an examination of federal funds usage and
    opportunities will take place during the coming year.

***Reducing Harm and Saving Lives***

In reaction to the steep rise in overdose deaths and the increasingly
lethal drug supply, the Biden-Harris Administration has prioritized
engaging and building trust with people who use drugs in order to save
lives and provide care. For the first time, harm reduction services –
which include naloxone, fentanyl test strips, and syringe service
programs – are a federal drug policy priority. These interventions are
saving lives in red states and blue states, as years of research have
demonstrated. People who use heroin and others who inject drugs who
regularly utilize a Syringe Services Program (SSP) are [five times more
likely to initiate substance use disorder
treatment](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/9633030/), compared with
those who have never used an SSP. [Syringe services sites can be
effective platforms](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/19413790/) to
motivate people with opioid use disorder to enroll in substance use
treatment and, over time, to reduce drug use and number of drug
injections. Distribution of naloxone to reverse the effects of an opioid
overdose [saves lives and is
cost-effective](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32327162/).

-   The Administration has prioritized funds for harm reduction. The
    American Rescue Plan included [$30 million in support for harm
    reduction
    services](https://www.samhsa.gov/grants/grant-announcements/sp-22-001)
    – a historic amount that will enhance interventions like syringe
    services programs. Additionally, CDC and the SAMHSA
    [announced ](https://www.cdc.gov/media/releases/2021/p0407-Fentanyl-Test-Strips.html)that
    federal funding may now be used to purchase fentanyl test strips in
    an effort to help curb the dramatic spike in drug overdose deaths.

<!-- -->

-   The Administration is including the input of people who use drugs in
    designing harm reduction interventions that will help save lives. In
    December, ONDCP, SAMHSA, and the CDC convened the first-ever Harm
    Reduction Summit. A steering committee made up entirely of people
    with lived experience is working to provide guidance and input on
    future Administration harm reduction efforts.

<!-- -->

-   The Administration plans to continue efforts to support syringe
    services programs through funding opportunities to provide these
    programs with needed supplies such as fentanyl test strips and
    sterile syringes, which have been proven to reduce diseases such as
    Hep-C and HIV.  In addition, ensuring naloxone is easily and readily
    available to these programs will provide the overdose reversal
    medication to people who need it most.

<!-- -->

-   In order to deliver resources to local communities, the
    Administration is working with states and communities to elevate
    harm reduction best practices.  Last year, ONDCP released model laws
    for states to help expand access to naloxone and SSPs. This year,
    ONDCP plans to elevate best practices for harm reduction
    organizations initiating low-threshold treatment through warm
    hand-offs to care or colocation of treatment. The Administration
    plans to work with states to expand this strategy in communities
    most in need.

<!-- -->

-   The overdose reversal medication naloxone is a critical tool for
    saving lives. However, equitable access to naloxone across the
    country is often defined by where you live. The Biden-Harris
    Administration is examining barriers to the acquisition and
    distribution of naloxone at the local level in order to increase
    access and availability where it is most needed.

***Stopping the Trafficking of Illicit Drugs***

Transnational organized crime is a multi-billion-dollar enterprise that
transcends geographical boundaries and threatens global stability. 
Every year, millions of lives are affected by transnational criminal
organizations, including through drug overdose and addiction, violence,
firearm deaths, human trafficking, and smuggling.  Drug trafficking and
transnational organized crime threatens our partners as well, especially
in Latin America. It fuels corruption, unbalances economies, preys on
the most vulnerable, and calls into question the very foundations of
legitimate governance, all of which lead to internal population
displacement and migration. Additionally, domestic drug trafficking
organizations often contribute to public health challenges and violence
in American communities. Addressing the core causes and sources of
transnational and domestic criminal activities is an urgent priority for
the Administration.

-   In October, President Biden
    [announced](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/12/15/fact-sheet-the-biden-administration-launches-new-efforts-to-counter-transnational-criminal-organizations-and-illicit-drugs/)
    two Executive Orders to counter transnational criminal organizations
    and illicit drug trafficking: first, by formally establishing the
    U.S. Council on Transnational Organized Crime; and second, by
    modernizing and expanding the U.S. Government’s ability to target
    drug trafficking organizations, their enablers, and financial
    facilitators through sanctions and other related actions. With these
    new tools, the Administration will disrupt the drug traffickers’
    ability to fund their business and deny them the benefits of their
    illicit activities.  
      

<!-- -->

-   Through its High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas (HIDTA) Program,
    ONDCP is funding new initiatives to reduce the violence associated
    with drug trafficking, refine interdiction efforts through enhanced
    data sharing and targeting, and go after illicit finance using
    innovative approaches, including cryptocurrency investigation. HIDTA
    baseline funds supporting these initiatives will be issued within 45
    days of enactment of FY2022 appropriations. These efforts will
    leverage strategic partnerships with Federal agencies, academics,
    and private industry. ONDCP is evaluating emerging drug threats in a
    variety of geographic regions and is poised to expand the HIDTA
    Program, as needed, by designating new areas as HIDTAs to better
    equip these regions to disrupt and dismantle drug trafficking
    organizations. ONDCP plans to announce HIDTA designations this
    summer in the Federal Register.

<!-- -->

-   The HIDTA Overdose Response Strategy, funded by ONDCP and CDC,
    brings together drug intelligence officers and public health
    analysts at the local and regional levels to share information and
    develop evidence-based intervention and support services that reduce
    overdoses.  The Strategy is piloting a range of innovative
    investigative, overdose prevention, and harm reduction approaches in
    all 50 states, Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, and the
    District of Columbia.

These actions build upon the significant efforts the Administration has
advanced through its first-year drug policy priorities and the American
Rescue Plan. These efforts delivered critical attention and resources to
the communities that are tackling this crisis on the front lines. **More
information about** **actions taken by the Biden-Harris Administration
to address addiction and the overdose epidemic can be
found **[**HERE**](https://www.whitehouse.gov/ondcp/briefing-room/2022/01/18/white-house-releases-list-of-actions-taken-by-the-biden-harris-administration-since-january-2021-to-address-addiction-and-the-overdose-epidemic/)**.**
