---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2022-03-01'
modified_time: 2022-03-01 11:14:54-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/03/01/fact-sheet-supporting-veterans-experiencing-financial-hardship-and-addressing-the-harmful-effects-of-military-environmental-exposures/
published_time: 2022-03-01 12:00:00-05:00
title: "FACT SHEET:  Supporting Veterans Experiencing Financial Hardship and Addressing\
  \ the Harmful Effects of Military Environmental\_Exposures"
---
 
The President believes that our Nation has a sacred obligation– to
properly prepare and equip the troops we send into harm’s way, and to
care for them and their families when they return home. Far too often
military service comes with a cost, and we owe it to our veterans and
their families to address the consequences comprehensively. This means
helping veterans build lives of opportunity when they leave military
service by helping them to find employment, providing pathways to home
ownership, and providing financial support and relief for those who are
struggling.

Our veterans are the best of America and supporting the women and men
who wear the uniform is a commitment that unites all of us. Throughout
history, Democrats and Republicans have been working together to ensure
access to world-class health care and benefits for our veterans. And,
while our nation’s longest war is over, our commitment to support our
veteran continues.

To honor those who have worn the uniform of the United States, and to
ensure we address the needs of veterans in financial hardship or those
who have encountered environmental hazards, the Biden-Harris
Administration is:

**<u>Reducing Financial Hardship</u>**

The President’s American Rescue Plan provided $17 billion to help
veterans, ensuring the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) had funding
to provide health care services for veterans, including funding for
homelessness programs, and to implement a rapid retraining assistance
program to help veterans impacted by the pandemic. The American Rescue
Plan also eliminated all out-of-pocket medical cost for veterans and
provided much needed financial relief to veterans experiencing economic
hardship during the COVID-19 pandemic.

Veterans in financial hardship who get treatment through VA are entitled
to get their medical debt forgiven. But currently, they can only apply
for that medical debt relief through a complex, paper form with
complicated eligibility requirements. Veterans may be deterred from
applying for much-needed relief because the application process is too
confusing and time-consuming. To address this barrier, today the
President is announcing that VA is:

**Simplifying the process for claiming medical debt forgiveness.** VA
will streamline the request process and set a simple income threshold
for receiving medical debt relief. The request process will include an
online option for veterans and reduce the effort required by veterans to
access relief. These changes will go into effect in the next 90 to 120
days. This change comes on top of the approximately $1 billion in
medical debt the VA has already forgiven for veterans under the American
Rescue Plan, which eliminated all out-of-pocket medical cost for
veterans and provided much needed financial relief to veterans
experiencing economic hardship during the COVID-19 pandemic. It also
comes on top of a [final
rule](https://www.va.gov/opa/pressrel/pressrelease.cfm?id=5758) VA
issued in February 2022, under which it will virtually cease reporting
unfavorable debt, including medical debt, to consumer reporting
agencies.

**<u>Addressing Harmful Effects of Environmental Exposures</u>**

Too often, military service results in increased health risks and other
consequences for our veterans. Some of these injuries and illnesses may
take years to manifest. Some are visible and some are invisible. This
can make it difficult for veterans to prove in-service exposure and
establish a direct connection for disabilities resulting from military
environmental exposures such as burn pits.

To mitigate the difficulty in establishing entitlement to benefits, the
Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) has established the presumption of
exposure and service connection for various chronic conditions when the
evidence of a military environmental exposure and the associated health
risks are strong in the aggregate but hard to prove on an individual
basis.

To further advance efforts to address the harmful effects of exposures
during military service, the Biden-Harris Administration is:

**Proposing to establish presumption for rare respiratory cancers.**
Based on a focused review of scientific and medical evidence related to
exposure to fine particulate matter and the subsequent development of
rare respiratory cancers, the Secretary of VA plans to propose a rule
that will add presumptive service connection for several rare
respiratory cancers for certain veterans. These cancers under
consideration include squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) of the larynx, SCC
of the trachea, adenocarcinoma of the trachea, salivary gland-type
tumors of the trachea, adenosquamous carcinoma of the lung, large cell
carcinoma of the lung, salivary gland-type tumors of the lung,
sarcomatoid carcinoma of the lung and typical and atypical carcinoid of
the lung.

**Supporting legislation to better care for veterans with environmental
exposures**. TheAdministration strongly supports ongoing legislative
efforts to expand access to health care services and benefits for
veterans impacted by environmental exposures. We are committed to
ensuring we are able to quickly and fairly recognize additional
presumptions of service-connected disabilities by modernizing the
processes for evaluating the relationship between exposure and health
outcomes. The President looks forward to signing legislation that
addresses the toxic legacy of environmental exposures sustained by
veterans during their military service.

These actions build on ongoing efforts the Administration is taking to
ensure timely access to services and benefits for veterans who
experience service connected disabilities from military environmental
exposures, including:

**Processing claims for new presumptive conditions.** In August, VA
began processing disability claims for asthma, rhinitis, and sinusitis
based on presumed exposure to particulate matter. Veterans who served in
the Southwest Asia theater of operations and other areas and who
developed these conditions within 10 years of military service are now
eligible to apply for disability benefits and access to VA health care.
This rulemaking was based upon application of the new presumptive model
and involved careful review of a study conducted by the National
Academies of Science, Engineering, and Medicine, as well as other
evidence assessed by VA subject matter experts. Since August, VA has
completed 16,537 claims, granting over 12,000 veterans and their
survivors benefits for one or more conditions, leading to over $36
million in retroactive benefit payments.  

**Applying a new model to review evidence of service connection for
constrictive bronchiolitis**. VA continues to test and refine a new
decision-making framework to determine whether to establish presumptions
of service connection based on exposure to military environmental
hazards during active military service and other purposes. The new model
is evidence-based, transparent, and allows VA to make faster policy
decisions on crucial exposure issues. This new model will fundamentally
change how VA makes decisions on environmental exposures. VA continues
to test the model, solicit feedback from internal and external
stakeholders, and evaluate its effectiveness.

**Raising awareness of VA benefits related to military exposures. **Many
veterans were unaware of their eligibility for benefits and services
related to potential military exposures. In addition, some claims
adjudicators may not have up-to-date awareness of recent policies
related to conditions newly presumed to be service-connected. Beginning
in November 2021, VA launched a proactive campaign to inform and
encourage veterans to file claims related to military environmental
exposures. In December 2021, military environmental exposures were
featured in the VA Benefits Newsletter, reaching nearly 5 million
subscribers. VA continues to share information via its social media
platforms weekly.

**Requiring training for VA and non-VA providers.** Veterans often find
that their providers and compensation and pension examiners are not
well-trained to understand or treat veterans’ exposure concerns. To
address this, VA directed compensation and pension providers and
Veterans Health Administration clinicians to complete a training module
on assessing deployment related to environmental exposures. This is the
first module in a series of five essential trainings. VA is also
encouraging all providers who care for veterans outside of VA through
the Community Care Network contract to complete training on the TRAIN
Learning Network, VA’s publicly available training site. Furthermore, VA
employees and community care providers have been directed to utilize the
Exposure Ed App to help providers provide information to Veterans on
health effects associated with certain exposures during military
service. More information on the app is available
[here](https://mobile.va.gov/app/exposure-ed).

**Implementing a network of specialized providers and call center.**
Veterans with concerns about the health outcomes of military exposures
experience inconsistent care to address these specific issues,
especially outside of VA. Earlier this year, VA launched VET-HOME, The
Veterans Exposure Team-Health Outcomes of Military Exposures. VA plans
to hire a total of 73 health professionals, including physicians, nurse
practitioners, and physician assistants who will specialize in
conducting patient assessments regarding the health effects of military
exposures. By January 2023, VA expects to have a fully operational call
center and network of experts to help veterans concerned about
environmental exposure and provide consultative services to veterans in
primary care clinics.

\###
