---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-08-29'
modified_time: 2021-08-29 19:14:27-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/08/29/remarks-by-president-biden-on-hurricane-ida/
published_time: 2021-08-29 19:14:26-04:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on Hurricane\_Ida"
---
 
FEMA Headquarters  
Washington, D.C.

3:22 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT: Thank you. Well, folks, you’ve got your hands full, but
you’ve done an incredible job so far in prepping for this.

You know, Jill and I are just getting back from Dover Air Force Base, up
in my home state, where we met with the families of 13 fallen heroes in
Afghanistan who lost their lives in the service of our country. And
while we’re praying for the best in Louisiana, let’s keep them in our
prayers as well.

You know, I — I’ve just been briefed by the FEMA leadership — and we
have real leadership — on Hurricane Ida and the preparations for rescue
and response. And the storm has made — as you know better than anyone,
but I’m speaking to the public at-large here — the storm made landfall a
few hours ago and it continues to rage and ravage everything it comes in
contact with.

This storm is a life-threatening storm. Governor Edwards, an old friend,
has characterized it as one of the strongest hurricanes — the strongest
in Louisiana history since 1850. And its devastation is likely to be
immense. We shouldn’t kid ourselves.

And so the most important thing I can say right now is that everyone —
everyone should listen to the instructions from local and state
officials just how dangerous this is and take it seriously. It’s not
just the coast. It’s not just New Orleans. It’s north as well. The
rainfall is expected to be exceedingly high.

And to the people of the Gulf Coast: I want you to know that we’re
praying for the best and planning — prepared for the worst.

As soon as the storm passes, we’re going to put this — we’re going to
put the country’s full might behind the rescue and recovery. And I mean
that.

I’ve been around for a lot of hurricanes. I’m no expert, but I’ve been
around for a lot of hurricanes, and I don’t think we’ve ever had as much
preparation — long-term preparation with the levee system and
preparation here.

Thanks to the Administrator’s leadership and the hard work of the FEMA
team — all of whom are gathered behind me — many of whom are gathered
behind me — we’ve already pre-positioned resources that we know are
going to be needed, and equipment, and response teams in the region.

This includes 2.5 million meals and 3 million liters of water. We’ve got
generators in place, and we’re in close touch with the power providers
to get and restore power as soon as possible because a lot of it — a lot
of it’s going to go out. And we should be prepared that it can take a
long time, no matter how much we’ve pre-positioned — which we have —
that it’s going to take a long time for a lot of it to get back up. It
could take a matter of weeks for some places.

We’ve got 13 Urban Search and Rescue Teams — for those of you who aren’t
familiar with that, they’re — these teams make up about 70 people and
experts — each of these teams — and they can do real, serious recovery
work.

More than 100 ambulances and emergency medical teams have been
activated. And we’re working with the Red Cross and local partners to
open dozens and dozens of shelters with cots and blankets and meals to
support those we need to evacuate. That will happen mostly in the
northern part of the state and maybe in parts of Mississippi.

And I’ve already signed an emergency declaration for both Louisiana as
well as Mississippi. And I want to make sure that we’re ready to surge
all the response capacity capability that we have to deal with whatever
comes next. And a lot’s going to be coming.

I’ve been in touch with the governors of Alabama, Mississippi, and
Louisiana. And my team at the White House has been in touch with other
state, local, and federal officials in the region. And they know — they
know there will be the full resources and support of the federal
government.

So, I want to emphasize again: This is going to be a devastating — a
devastating hurricane, a life-threatening storm. So, please, all you
folks in Mississippi and — in Louisiana, Mississippi, and, God knows,
maybe even further east, take precautions. Listen. Take it seriously —
really, very seriously.

And, you know, the whole-of-government effort is ready to get to work. I
can’t think of any time where the federal, state, and local folks have
worked together more closely and in advance of an obvious significant
natural disaster.

And folks, we — we’re going to be here. We’re going to be here to help
the Gulf Coast region get back on its feet as quickly as possible, as
long as it takes — as long as it takes.

So, thank you, and may God protect those in the path of the storm. And
God willing, we’ll get through this sooner than later.

But don’t kid yourself; this is going to take a lot of resources, a
little bit of luck, and as my grandfather would say, “The grace of God
and the goodwill of the neighbors.” And by the way, look out for your
neighbors. If you’re in the region, look out for your neighbors.

So, thank you very much, and thank you, Commissioner. I — I really think
it all works.

I’m not — I’m not supposed to take any questions, but go ahead.

Q Mr. President, on Afghanistan —

THE PRESIDENT: I’m not going to answer Afghanistan now.

Q Can you say if there’s still an acute —

THE PRESIDENT: Okay.

Q — risk at the airport, sir?

THE PRESIDENT: (Addressing the staff of FEMA.) Thank you. (Applause.)
Really and truly, thank you, thank you, thank you. I know there’s no
group of Americans who know how m- — how m- — dangerous it is more than
you guys do. So, let’s stay at it to the very end. I know you will.

You’ve done everything you can to help prepare these folks. But I tell
you what, it’s — I think we’re going to be take — they’re going to be
taking a look at additional levee systems a little further south before
this is over. So, thank you, thank you, thank you.

And I promise you, the governor is truly, truly, truly appreciative.
You’re probably never going to meet him, but he’s a good guy. He’s
really appreciative. Thank you. (Applause.)

3:28 P.M. EDT
