---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-08-30'
modified_time: 2021-08-30 16:18:33-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/08/30/remarks-by-president-biden-in-briefing-on-hurricane-ida/
published_time: 2021-08-30 16:18:32-04:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden in Briefing on Hurricane\_Ida"
---
 
South Court Auditorium  
Eisenhower Executive Office Building

1:43 P.M. EDT  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon, everybody.  We’re waiting for a few more
people to get on, but we’re going to get started if that’s okay with you
all.  And thanks for joining me.  I’m here — the FEMA Director is on. 
FEMA Director Criswell — she’s on.  And I’m here with my senior advisor
and boy who knows Louisiana very, very well, man — and New Orleans and —
Cedric Richmond.  
  
And what I’m going to do is make a brief statement here and then go
through and tell you what we’re doing, but then hear from all of you, if
that’s okay.  I know you’re busy as the devil.  
  
I know you’ve got a lot to manage in your states, but the fact is that I
want to hear from you; we both want to hear from you.  And we know
Hurricane Ida had the potential to cause massive, massive dem- — damage,
and that’s exactly what we saw.  
  
We already know there’s been at least one confirmed death, and a number
— that number is likely to grow.  And I’ve got — we’ve got a million
people in Louisiana without power.  
  
And, for a time, Ida caused the Mississippi River to literally change
its direction, and some folks are still dealing with the storm surge and
flash flooding.  
  
And there are roads that are impassable due to debris and downed power
lines.  And we need people to continue to shelter in place if it’s safe
for them to do so.  
  
And for those who have lost their homes, you know, states, working with
the American Red Cross, have already opened 50 — 50 shelters in affected
areas across the Gulf Coast.  
  
We’ve already begun search and rescue efforts, and we get folks who —
out there who need assistance.  And we’re doing the best we can.  
  
More than 5,000 members of the National Guard have been activated from
Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama, and Texas  
to support search and rescue and recovery efforts.  
  
And FEMA has pre-positioned literally millions of meals and liters of
water.  They’re already pre-positioned, as well as other resources, in
the immediate area.  
  
And we’ve deployed more than 200 generators, and we already moved into
the region; they’ve been moved in ahead of time.  And the Administrator
Criswell and her team at FEMA is working getting more of those into the
area.  
  
We’re in close contact with local electric providers to see what they
need.  They’re all private providers; we don’t control that.  But we’re
doing all we can to minimize the amount of time  
it’s going to take to get power back up for everyone in the region.  
  
And we’ve been working with the electric sector throughout the night and
all day today to assess and understand the full — the full extent of the
damage.  
  
To accelerate the process, I’ve asked the Federal Aviation
Administration to work today with Louisiana and Mississippi electric
companies to authorize the use of surveillance drones to assess Ida’s
damage to energy infrastructure, while ensuring those flights do not
disrupt aerial search and rescue operations.  
  
And I’ve also asked the Pentagon and the Department of Homeland Security
to immediately make available any satellite imagery that can assist in
assessing the damage in your states and cities and parishes.   
  
Local utilities are going to soon begin restoration work, including
prioritizing getting transmission lines into New Orleans and get them
back up and running.  A lot of them have been taken down.  
  
More than 25,000 debris crews and linemen from at least 30 states are
rolling in to support you.  Some are already pre-positioned and close,
and hopefully are already underway.   
  
But we need to be prepared and — that — we’re about as prepared as we
could be for the early stage of this, and there’s a lot more to do.  
  
We also know a lot of people lost their cellphone service if their
particular carrier tower is down or damaged.  
  
So, this morning, the Federal Communications Commission has worked with
the cellular providers to initiate their Cooperative Framework
Agreement.  That agreement allows customers on one line — with one
provider to go to another provider if that provider is down.  So it
allows customers to use roaming <s>access</s> \[across\] carriers — to
any of the carriers that are up and running.  And that means you should
be able to get a signal no matter who your carrier was or is.   
  
The main thing I want to make clear to all of you is we’re providing any
help we — that you’re going to need.  
  
And so I’ve got — as I said, I’ve got my senior advisor, Cedric
Richmond, here with me.  You all know him.  He’s a New Orleans native,
and he’s a congressman of Louisiana — was a congressman from Louisiana’s
2nd District for 10 years.  He knows the area.  He knows the people, and
he — who have been affected by Ida.  And he knows how to get things done
in government.  
  
While FEMA is our lead for on-the-ground response, if there is something
you need — needs my attention, Cedric is your direct line — direct line
into the White House throughout this recovery.  And I mean that. 
Whatever you need, go to Cedric.  He’ll get to me, and we’ll get you
what you need, if we can.  
  
The people of Louisiana and — and Mississippi are resilient and — but
it’s in moments like these that we can certainly see the power of
government to respond to the needs of the people if the government is
prepared and if they respond.  That’s our job, if we work together.  The
folks get knocked down; we’re there to help you get back on your feet.  
  
The most important element, though, is coordinating all the branches of
government — state, local, and federal.  And that’s what we’re trying to
make sure that we tried to do even before this hurricane hit.  That’s
why we began working together — we’re going to stand with you and the
people of the Gulf as long as it takes for you to recover.  
  
And so I’m now going to turn this over to John Bel — Governor Edwards of
Louisiana.  
  
And, Governor, give us your assessment of what you have, what you’re
seeing out there.  Tell me what you’re hearing and what your team on the
ground — and anything you need that we haven’t gotten to you.  
  
GOVERNOR EDWARDS:  Thank you very much, Mr. President.  And you couldn’t
have picked a better person than Cedric Richmond, and we look forward to
working with him as well.   
  
First of all, let me thank you for signing my request for a pre-landfall
declaration and then, last night, signing the major disaster
declaration.  That’s going to be very helpful.   
  
Hurricane Ida came onshore with everything that was advertised: —   
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Yep.  
  
GOVERNOR EDWARDS:  — the surge, the rain, the wind.   
  
The good news, first, is all of our levee systems, particularly our
federal levee systems and hurricane risk reduction systems, performed
magnificently.  They were not overtopped.  None of them were breached. 
Even — even our levee systems that were paid for with state and local
funding in Lafourche and Terrebonne Parish performed extremely well.  It
would be a different story altogether had any of those levee systems
failed.   
  
Having said that, the damage is still catastrophic, but it was primarily
wind-driven.  But we know that there were some areas that received
tremendous rainfall as well.  But we’re going to be dealing with this —
with this damage for quite a while.  
  
And you mentioned the power outage.  That is critical for us.  And it’s
really a million homes and businesses that are out.  And my best guess
is you’re getting closer to 2 million people without electricity right
now.   
  
And, of course, we’re trying to prioritize the restoration so that our
hospitals come back up first.  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.  
  
GOVERNOR EDWARDS:  Because while they’re all on generator power,
generators typically, you know, fail after some period of time.  So, we
want to get them back up first.  And in the meantime, we already have
the Corps of Engineers on the ground identifying additional generators
that we can bring to these hospital locations so that should we have a
failure before power is restored, we’re going to be able to switch them
over.  And they’re working extremely hard on that.  
  
And we have FEMA embedded with us here since before the storm.  The
truth of the matter is, they’ve embedded (inaudible) since the day I
became governor.  They haven’t left because of one disaster or emergency
after another.  But they’re doing really well.   
  
We look forward to visiting with Administrator Criswell, who I think is
going to be able to come down tomorrow, Mr. President.  
  
But this is going to be a long haul, and we know that we’re going to
need assistance with the housing program.  We’re putting together
preliminary information this week that can potentially drive an
appropriation for a CDBG.  We’ll be getting with you all — and I’ll work
through Cedric Richmond on that, Mr. President — to make sure that we
can get a program up and running just as soon as possible.   
  
But I want to — I want to finish with really the most important thing:
We are still in lifesaving mode here doing search and rescue.  The
roads, the highways into the most affected area were completely clogged
with debris, downed powerlines, trees.   
  
We’re making really good progress.  We actually started our ground
search and rescue this morning at daylight.  We dispatched those
forces.  
  
And, by the way, we already had search and rescue teams from 16 states
in Louisiana as of yesterday.  They started moving to the affected areas
at three o’clock this morning.  At six o’clock, they were — they were
actually doing search and rescues from 911 calls that came in over the
night that couldn’t be responded to.  And then, by six o’clock this
morning, we actually were effecting rescues out of the air as well.   
  
And the last thing I want to say is the very first rescues occurred at a
hospital in Galliano, down in Lafourche Parish, by the U.S. Coast Guard,
because they were able to fly before — before any other assets could. 
And they were able to move about seven patients from a hospital down
there.  You probably saw the hospital that had the roof just completely
—  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.  
  
GOVERNOR EDWARDS:  — you know, taken off yesterday.  Your Coast Guard
rescued and relocated those patients first thing this morning, and we
are very appreciative of that.  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Well, thank you.  Well, look, I wanted — we worked real
hard with you to get the search and rescue teams in place.  But they —
you say they have been able to respond in a timely way.  
  
GOVERNOR EDWARDS:  Yes, sir.  And I’m — I can’t tell you they’re
everywhere we want them, but they started responding first thing this
morning.  And those 16 teams — that doesn’t include the National Guard
or the Wildlife and Fisheries officers here.   
  
You know, I’ve got all 5,000 of my National Guardsmen activated.  We’re
going to end up with about 5,000 more coming in from out of state
through an EMAC request.  And one of the reasons this is important, Mr.
President, is we’ve got 2,400 of our soldiers in our 256th Brigade
Infantry Combat Team; they’re deployed to the Middle East.   
  
And so, we’re going to have EMAC requests where, I think as early as
tomorrow, we’re going to have additional soldiers coming from National
Guards from sister states, and that’s going to be very helpful as
well.  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Well, good.  Well, look, if there’s anything else you
need, you know you just call.  I mean, you’ve got the team at the table
there — a lot of them — and so, just holler.   
  
All right.  Now, Cedric, who are we going to next?  
  
MR. RICHMOND:  Governor Reeves.  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Is Gov- — oh, you are.  I understand, Gov, you’re not on
video, but you are on the telephone.  So, Gov, fire away.  
  
GOVERNOR REEVES:  Well, thank you, Mr. President.  When we spoke on
Friday, you assured me that when we asked for the pre-landfall
declaration, that you would immediately sign it, and you did exactly
that, and I want to thank you for doing so.  We’re in a little bit of a
different position right now, obviously, than our friends in
Louisiana.  
  
The storm is — the eye of the storm is currently west of Jackson, and so
we probably have between 18 and 22 more hours of the eye of the storm
being in the state of Mississippi.  We also have — because it’s such a
large storm, our largest threat, in terms of tornadic activity, still
remains along our coastline and in the counties just north of there.  
  
The storm, which really is challenging, has slowed down to about eight
miles an hour, and so that’s the reason it’s going to stay in the state
for so long, which leads to more and more rainfall.  So, the bad news
for us is that we’re going to get even more rainfall than maybe we
originally anticipated.   
  
The good news is, because it’s moving so slow, the wind speeds have not
reached where we thought they would be — in the 65- to 75-mile-an-hour
range — here in Central Mississippi.  They’re really closer to 30 to 40
miles an hour.  Certainly still providing some significant challenges
but not to the extent that it otherwise could have been.  
  
Because of that, we know that our greatest threats here in Mississippi
are with respect to rising water and power outages.  The storm has been
in the state for about 8 to 10 hours now.  We’ve got 135,000-plus
Mississippi dwellings that have not and cannot receive power right now. 
We’re working — working on that, but we anticipate that number to
significantly increase over the next 20 hours as the storm continues to
move mor- — to move north.  
  
We have determined, in meeting with our team, Mr. President, as well as
your team at FEMA earlier today, that the SARs assets — the Search and
Rescue Teams — from FEMA in our state are not currently needed in our
state.   
  
We believe our state and local assets can meet the needs.  And so, we
have encouraged our FEMA counterparts to release those individuals over
to Louisiana to help with the search and rescue.  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Good.  
  
GOVERNOR REEVES:  As well as, I have directed General Boyles, my
Adjutant General, as we progress over the next 8 to 10 hours — he has
already reached out to his counterpart in Louisiana, and we’re going to
be sending men and women in uniform from Mississippi to help in
Louisiana because that’s just — that’s who we are.   
  
And so, we’ve got, again, some — about 20 hours ahead of us of winds and
lots and lots of rain.  But all things considered, because the storm
slowed up so considerably, we’re seeing more rain — more rain, more
water, but a lot less wind, which is certainly helpful.   
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Well, thanks an awful lot, Gov.  And again, thanks for
your generosity in sending some of those search and rescue teams to
Louisiana.   
  
And is — is — Mayor Cantrell on?  Mayor Cantrell, are you on?  I don’t —
I don’t think she was able to get connected.   
  
MR. RICHMOND:  I don’t think so, Mr. President, but we have Cynthia Lee
Sheng —  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Oh, okay.  
  
MR. RICHMOND:  The Parish President from Jefferson Parish, which
includes Grand Isle and other places hard-hit.  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  You were hard-hit, weren’t — weren’t you, Madam
President?  
  
MS. SHENG:  Thank you.   
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Especially down in Grand Isle.  
  
MS. SHENG:  Yes, we were.  Thank you, Mr. President.  Congressman,
Governor, thank you.  
  
We have not had contact with Grand Isle.  Congressman, you know Mayor
Camardelle.  I talked to him yesterday evening.  He thought 40 people
were on the island — couldn’t get them off — including some
firefighters.  We have not had contact with them since yesterday.   
  
I’m told that the — Mayor Camardelle is in Galliano.  And Governor, I
think he’s on a helicopter by the State Police — is what I heard — to
get him to the island.  And as long as there’s communication, we’ll be
able to communicate with him and see what’s going on there.  But it’s —
it’s very hard to not have any word from that island and the people on
it since that time.  
  
In Lafitte, the water was very high — to the roofs of houses.  Our first
responders, Sheriff Joseph Lopinto, our firefighters, Louisiana National
Guard, some — some Coast Guard are there doing search and rescue. 
They’re having to get boats in and out.  We are sheltering those people
at PARD Playground.  And then, I believe, the state is going to
coordinate, Governor, for a pickup and move them out to Alexandria is my
understanding.   
  
And then, of course, our systems are down.  We have no electricity, no
communication.  Our water systems are down.  We’re losing pressure.  We
had to do a boil water advisory.  Our sewer system, as you know, is
based on electricity, so we’re going to start having backups there, so
that’s going to be a hygiene problem.   
  
And we’re encouraging residents who are out of the area to stay out
because we do not have the modern amenities to bring them back home. 
And the people inside, you know, we’re going to have to take care of
them.   
  
But some of the people in here who stayed during the storm and are okay
— in the next couple days, they may want to get out, and it might be a
be- — best idea for them to get out because it’s going to be difficult
life for quite some time.   
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Madam President.   
  
MS. SHENG:  Thank you.   
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Cedric, what about the oil port?  
  
MR. RICHMOND:  Well, the Governor or Parish President Sheng could talk
about that.  The President is inquiring about the oil ports down in Port
Fourchon, and the fact and — and where we are there.   
  
MS. SHENG:  I personally do not have eyes on that situation.  So,
actually, the only the visual I get is if I see something on the
national news.  But I don’t have word about that.   
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.  
  
2:01 P.M. EDT
