---
category: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-08-20'
modified_time: 2021-08-20 16:36:53-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/08/20/remarks-by-president-biden-on-evacuations-in-afghanistan/
published_time: 2021-08-20 16:36:12-04:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on Evacuations in\_Afghanistan"
---
 
East Room

1:49 P.M. EDT  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon.  I’ve just met with the Vice President,
Secretary Blinken, Secretary Austin, National Security Advisor Sullivan,
and other members the national security leadership team in the Situation
Room to discuss our ongoing efforts to evacuate American citizens,
third-country civilians, Afghan allies, and vulnerable Afghans.  And I
want to provide the American people with a brief update and the — on the
situation in Afghanistan.  
  
Since I spoke to you on Monday, we’ve made significant progress.  We
have secured the airport, enabling flights to resume.  Not just military
flights, but civilian charters and other — from other countries and the
NGOs taking out civilians and vulnerable Afghan — vulnerable Afghans.  
  
And now we have almost 6,000 troops on the ground, including the 82nd
Airborne providing runway security, the Army 10th Mountain Division
standing guard around the airport, and the 24th Marine Expeditionary
Unit assisting the civilian departure.  
  
This is one of the largest, most difficult airlifts in history.  And the
only country in the world capable of projecting this much power on the
far side of the world with this degree of precision is the United States
of America.  
  
We’ve already evacuated more than 18,000 people since July and
approximately 13,000 since our military airlift began on August the
14th.  Thousands more have been evacuated on private charter flights
facilitated by the U.S. government.   
  
These numbers include American citizens and permanent residents, as well
as their families.  It includes SIV applicants and their families —
those Afghans who have worked alongside us, served alongside of us, gone
into combat with us, and provided invaluable assistance to us, such as
translators and interpreters.  
  
The United States stands by its commitment that we’ve made to these
people, and it includes other vulnerable Afghans, such as women leaders
and journalists.  
  
In fact, working in close coordination with the management of the New
York Times, the Washington Post, and the Wall Street Journal, we have
successfully evacuated all 204 of their employees in Afghanistan on U.S.
military aircraft earlier this week.  
  
We have established the flow of flights, and we’ve increased the number
of people we are moving out of the country.  
  
We paused flights in Kabul a few hours this morning to make sure we
could process the arriving evacuees at the transit points, but our
commander in Kabul has already given the order for outbound flights to
resume.  
  
Even with the pause, we moved out 5,700 evacuees yesterday, and we’re
working on a variety — to verify that number of the Americans that are
still in the country as we work on this because we’re not — don’t have
the exact number of people who are — Americans who are there.  And those
who may have come home to the United States, we’re not — we want to get
a strong number as to exactly how many people are there, how many
American citizens, and where they are.  
  
Just yesterday, among the many Americans we evacuated, there were 169
Americans who, over the — we got over the wall into the airport using
military assets.  
  
We’re also facilitating flights for our Allies and our partners, and
working in close operational coordination with NATO on this
evacuation.  
  
For example, we provided overwatch for the French convoy bringing
hundreds of their people from the French embassy to the airport.  
  
These operations are going — are going to continue over the coming days
before we complete our drawdown.  
  
We’re going to do everything — everything that we can to provide safe
evacuation for our Afghan allies, partners, and Afghans who might be
targeted if — because of their association with the United States.  
  
But let me be clear, any American who wants to come home, we will get
you home.  
  
But make no mistake: This evacuation mission is dangerous.  It involves
risks to our armed forces, and it is being conducted under difficult
circumstances.   
  
I cannot promise what the final outcome will be or what it will be —
that it will be without risk of loss.  But as Commander-in-Chief, I can
assure you that I will mobilize every resource necessary.  
  
And as an American, I offer my gratitude to the brave men and women of
the U.S. Armed Forces who are carrying out this mission.  They’re
incredible.  
  
As we continue to work the logistics of evacuation, we’re in constant
contact with the Taliban, working to ensure civilians have safe passage
to the airport.  We’re particularly focused in our engagements on making
sure every American who wants to leave can get to the airport.  Where we
have been — seen challenges with Americans — for Americans, we have thus
far been able to resolve them.  
  
We’ve been able — we’ve made — look, we’ve made clear to the Taliban
that any attack — any attack on our forces or disruption of our
operations at the airport will be met with a swift and forceful
response.  
  
We’re also keeping a close watch on any potential terrorist threat at or
around the airport, including from the ISIS affiliates in Afghanistan
who were released from prison when the prisons were emptied.  And
because they are, by the way — to make everybody understand — that the
ISIS in Afghanistan are the — have been the sworn enemy of the
Taliban.   
  
I’ve said all along: We’re going to retain a laser-focus on our
counterterrorism mission, working in close coordination with our allies
and our partners and all those who have an interest  
in ensuring stability in the region.  
  
Secretary Blinken, who is with me today, met this morning with our NATO
Allies in consultation about the way forward so that Afghanistan cannot
be used as a — in the future as a terrorist base of attack — to attack
the United States or our Allies.  
  
For 20 years, Afghanistan has been a joint effort with our NATO Allies. 
We went in together and we’re leaving together, and now we’re working
together to bring our people and our Afghan partners to safety.  
  
In the past few days, I’ve also spoken directly with the British Prime
Minster, Mr. Johnson; Chancellor Merkel of Germany; and President Macron
of France.  
  
We all agreed that we should convene and we will convene the G7 meeting
next week — a group of the world’s leading democracies — so that
together we can coordinate our mutual approach, our united approach on
Afghanistan and moving forward.  
  
We are united with our closest partners to execute the mission at
hand.  
  
We’ve also discussed the need to work with the international community
to provide humanitarian assistance, such as food, aid, and medical care
for refugees who have crossed into neighboring countries to escape the
Taliban; and to bring international pressure on the Taliban with respect
to the treatment of Afghan peo- — the Afghan people overall, but
including Afghan, particularly, women and girls.  
  
The past week has been heartbreaking.  We’ve seen gut-wrenching images
of panicked people acting out of sheer desperation.  You know, it’s
completely understandable.  They’re frightened.  They’re sad — uncertain
what happens next.    
  
I don’t think anyone — I don’t think any one of us can see those
pictures and not feel that pain on a human level.  
  
Now we have a mission — a mission to complete in Afghanistan.  It’s an
incredibly difficult and dangerous operation for our military.  
  
We have almost 6,000 of America’s finest fighting men and women in Ka- —
at the Kabul Airport.  
  
And we’re putting their lives on the line — they’re doing it — in a
dangerous place to save other Americans, our Afghan allies, and citizens
of our al- — our allies who went in with us.  
  
You know, I — I talk — I talk to our commanders on the ground there
every single day, as I just did a few hours — an hour or so ago.  And I
made it clear to them that we’ll get them whatever they need to do the
job.  They’re performing to the highest standard under extraordinarily
difficult and dynamic circumstances.  
  
Our NATO Allies are strongly standing with us — their troops keeping
sentry alongside ours in Kabul.  
  
As is the case whenever I deploy our troops into harm’s way, I take that
responsibility seriously.  I carry that burden every day, just as I did
when I was Vice President and my son was deployed to Iraq for a year.  
  
There’ll be plenty of time to criticize and second-guess when this
operation is over.  But now — now I’m focused on getting this job
done.  
  
I would ask every American to join me in praying for the women and men
risking their lives on the ground in the service of our nation.   
  
As events evolve over the coming days, my team and I will continue to
share the information and update the American people on exactly where
things are.  
  
We’ll use every resource necessary to carry out the mission at hand and
bring to safety American citizens and our Afghan allies.  This is our
focus now.  
  
And when this is finished, we will complete our military withdrawal and
finally bring to an end 20 years of American military action in
Afghanistan.  
  
Thank you, and may God bless you, our troops, our diplomats, and all
those serving in harm’s way.  
  
And now I’ll take questions.  AP, Zeke Miller.  
  
Q    Thank you, Mr. President.  You vowed that your election would usher
in an era where the world could count on America to live up to its
promises.  You promised to leave Afghanistan, but you also promised not
to — to help — to bring out those who helped America in its war effort. 
We’ve seen these heart-wrenching images at the Kabul airport of people
trying to get there, to say nothing of the people who can’t get to that
airport.  
  
You made the commitment to get American troops out, to get the American
citizens out.  Will you make the same commitment to those who assisted
in the American war effort over the last 20 years?  Number one.   
  
And then, number two: What’s your message to America’s partners around
the world who have criticized not the withdrawal, but the conduct of
that withdrawal, and made — made them question America’s credibility on
the world stage?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  I have seen no question of our credibility from our
allies around the world.  I have spoken with our NATO Allies.  We’ve
spoken with NATO Allies — the Secretary of State.  Our National Security
Advisor has been in contact with his counterparts throughout the world
with our Allies, as has the General — or, excuse me, I keep calling him
a General, but my Secretary of Defense.   
  
The fact of the matter is I have not seen that.  Matter of fact, the
exact opposite I’ve got — the exact opposite thing is we’re acting with
dispatch, we’re acting — committing to what we said we would do.  
  
Look, let’s put this thing in perspective here.  What interest do we
have in Afghanistan at this point with al Qaeda gone?  We went to
Afghanistan for the express purpose of getting rid of al Qaeda in
Afghanistan, as well as — as well as getting Osama bin Laden.  And we
did.   
  
Imagine — just imagine if that attack — if bin Laden had decided, with
al Qaeda, to launch an attack from Yemen.  Would we ever have gone to
Afghanistan?  Would there ever be any reason we’d be in Afghanistan —
controlled by the Taliban?  What is the national interest of United
States in that circumstance?  We went and did the mission.  You’ve known
my position for a long, long time.  It’s time to end this war.   
  
The estimates of the cost of this war over the last 20 years ranged from
a minimum of $1 trillion to a think tank at one of the universities
saying $2 trillion.  That’s somewhere between $150 million a day and
$300 million a day.  
  
The threat from terrorism has metastasized.  There’s a greater danger
from ISIS and — and al Qaeda and all these affiliates in other
countries, by far, than there is from Afghanistan.   
  
And we’re going to retain an over-the-horizon capability that if they
were to come back — to be able to take them out, surgically move.   
  
So, this is — this is where we should be.  This is about America leading
the world, and all our allies have agreed with that.   
  
And, by the way, before I made this decision, I was at the G7, as well
as — met with our NATO partners, and I told them all.  Every one of them
knew and agreed with the decision I made to an end — end — jointly end
our involvement in Afghanistan.   
  
The first part of your question was — I can’t remember now.  
  
Q    It is: Are — would you commit to the same commitment — would you
make the same commitment to bring out Afghans who assisted in the war
effort?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Yes.  Yes.  We’re making the same commitment.  There’s
no one more important than bringing American citizens out.  I
acknowledge that.  But they’re equally important, almost — is all those
who — those “SIVs,” we call them, who, in fact, helped us.  They were
translators.  They went into battle with us.  They were part of the
operation.  As well as — we’re also trying to get out as many NGOs —
non-governmental organizations — women’s organizations, et cetera. 
We’re doing all we can.  
  
In the meantime, Secretary Blinken and I am going to be working with our
Allies to see to it that we can bring international pressure on the
Taliban to be — they’re looking to gain some legitimacy.  They’re going
to have to figure out how they’re going to maintain that country.   
  
And there’s going to be harsh conditions we’re — strong condition we’re
going to apply.  And it will depend on whether they get help — based on
whether or not how and well they treat women and girls, how they treat
their citizens.   
  
So, this is just beginning on that score.   
  
Q    And are you willing to stay passed the 31st to make that happen —
to bring all the Americans out, to bring those SIVs out?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  I think we can get it done by then, but we’re going to
make that judgment as we go.   
  
Now, Justin Sink of Bloomberg.  
  
Q    Thank you, Mr. President.  You just said that you would keep a
laser-focus on counterterrorism efforts and that you don’t see as great
of a threat of terrorism from Afghanistan as other parts of the world. 
But if you and your administration so badly misassessed how quickly the
Taliban would sweep through Afghanistan and we no longer have an embassy
there from which to run intelligence operations, how can you at all be
confident of your assessment of the risk of terrorism and the ability of
the U.S. to conduct over-the-horizon missions to keep it in check?  Can
you tell Americans that they’re safe and will remain safe from terror
attacks in Afghanistan?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  I think you’re comparing apples and oranges.  One
question was whether or not the Afghan forces we trained up would stay
and fight in their own civil war they had going on.   
  
No one — I shouldn’t say “no one” — the consensus was that it was highly
unlikely that in 11 days they’d collapse and fall, and the leader of
Afghanistan would flee the country.   
  
That’s a very different question than whether or not there is the
ability to observe whether or not large groups of terrorists began to
accumulate in a particular area in Afghanistan to plot against the
United States of America.  That’s why we retained an over-the-horizon
capability to go in and do something about that if that occurs — if that
occurs.   
  
But in the meantime, we know what’s happening around the world.  We know
what’s happening in terms of what’s going on in other countries, where
there is the significant rise of terrorist organizations in the Middle
East, in East Africa, and other places.   
  
And so, the bottom line is: We have to do — we’re dealing with those
terrorist threats from other parts of the world in failed states without
permanent military — without permanent military presence there.  We have
to do the same in Afghanistan.  
  
Q    And, sir, just on that initial assessment: We’ve learned, over the
last 24 hours, that there was a dissent cable from the State Department
—  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Sure.  
  
Q    — saying that the Taliban would come faster through Afghanistan. 
Can you say why, after that cable was issued, the U.S. didn’t do more to
get Americans out?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  We’ve got all kind of cables, all kinds of advice.  If
you notice, it ranged from this group saying that — they didn’t say it’d
fall when it would fall — when it did fall — but saying that it would
fall; to others saying it wouldn’t happen for a long time and they’d be
able to sustain themselves through the end of the year.   
  
I made the decision.  The buck stops with me.  I took the consensus
opinion.  The consensus opinion was that, in fact, it would not occur,
if it occurred, until later in the year.  So, it was my decision.  
  
Now, my — I got — my next is Stephanie Ramos, ABC.  
  
Q    Thank you, Mr. President.  Two questions for you.  The military has
secured the airport, as you mentioned, but will you sign off on sending
U.S. troops into Kabul to evacuate Americans who haven’t been able to
get to the airport safely?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  We have no indication that they haven’t been able to get
— in Kabul — through the airport.  We’ve made an agreement with the —
with the Taliban.  Thus far, they’ve allowed them to go through.  It’s
in their interest for them to go through.  So, we know of no
circumstance where American citizens are — carrying an American passport
— are trying to get through to the airport.  But we will do whatever
needs to be done to see to it they get to the airport.   
  
Thank you.  
  
Q    And one more, Mr. President.  Last month, my colleague Martha
Raddatz interviewed Abdul, an interpreter who was on the frontlines with
U.S. forces in Afghanistan.  Overnight, we received a photo of Taliban
militants coming to the door of his home, literally hunting him down. 
Thankfully, he was able to escape, but he is obviously still in mortal
danger.  What would be your message to Abdul, his wife, and his three
young daughters?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  We want you to be able to get to the airport.  Contact
us.  We’ll see whatever we can do to get you there.  We’ve got to get
you out.  We are committed to deal with you, your wife, and your child —
to get all three of you out of Afghanistan.  That’s the commitment.   
  
Q    Thank you, sir.   
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Meredith Lee of PBS NewsHour.  
  
Q    Thank you, Mr. President.  You mentioned just now using every
resource available for evacuations.  Why haven’t you ordered the
military to expand the security perimeter around the Kabul airport?  Do
you have any plans to do so, given that it will likely require more U.S.
troops?  And are you considering rescue operations to recover Americans
and Afghan allies stuck behind Taliban checkpoints?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  The last answer is yes — to the last question.  We’re
considering every op- — every opportunity and every means by which we
can get folks to the airport.  That’s number one.  
  
Number two, the reason why we have not gone out and started — and set up
a perimeter way outside the airport in Kabul is that it’s likely to draw
an awful lot of unintended consequences in terms of people who, in fact,
are not part of the Taliban.   
  
We’ve been in constant contact with the Taliban leadership on the ground
in — in Kabul, as well as the Taliban leadership at <s>Daho</s>
\[Doha\], and we’ve been coordinating what we are doing.  
  
That’s why we were able — for example, how we got all of our embassy
personnel out, how we got everyone out of the embassy safely that was at
distance.  That’s how we helped get the French out and — out of their
embassy.   
  
So, the question remains — there will be judgments made on the ground by
the military commanders at the moment, and that — I cannot second-guess
each of those judgments to be made.   
  
But the idea of — again, let me — let me get back to the fundamental
point I made at the outset.  When the decision was made by me that — and
it was made some time ago, when I ran for President saying I wanted to
get us out of Afghanistan — one of the things that is a reality is
people now say to me and to others — and so- — many of you say it on air
— that: Why did we have to move?  Because no Americans are being
attacked.  Why did we withdraw those — why did we agree to withdraw
2,500 troops?  No Americans were being attacked.  
  
As I said before, the reason they weren’t being attacked was part of an
agreement that Trump had made a year earlier.  “We will leave by May
1st,” he said, “as long as there’s no attack on Americans in that year,
period.”  Number one.  
  
Number two, the Taliban was taking large swaths of the countryside,
north and south — none of the major areas, none of the major points of
the capitals of each of these provinces, but they were all over the —
all over the country.   
  
And the idea that if I had said on May the 2nd or 3rd, “We are not
leaving; we are staying” — does anybody truly believe that I would not
have had to put in significantly more American forces — send your sons,
your daughters — like my son was sent to Iraq — to maybe die?  And for
what?  For what?   
  
So the only rational thing to do, in my view, was to set up and
pre-position American forces for the purpose of evacuation, and the
aircraft — to pre-position those ahead of time so that we would be able
to begin the process of evacuation of American citizens, SIVs, and
others who helped us.  
  
The last point I’ll make is this: Look, if we had decided 15 years ago
to leave Afghanistan, it would have been really difficult.  If we
decided five years ago — if we start — if we continued the war for
another decade and tried to leave, there’s no way in which you’d be able
to leave Afghanistan without there being some of what you’re seeing
now.  
  
But what we’ve done so far is we’ve been able to get a large number of
Americans out, all our personnel at the embassy out, and so on.  
  
And, thank God, so far — knock on wood — we’re in a different position. 

Scott Detrow.  Scott.  NPR.  
  
Q    Thank you, Mr. President.  I just want to follow up on something
you said a moment ago.  You said that there’s no circumstances where
American citizens cannot get to the airport.  That doesn’t really square
with the images we’re seeing around the airport and with the reporting
on the ground from our colleagues who are describing chaos and
violence.  Are you saying unequivocally that any American who wants to
get to the airport is getting there and getting past the security
barrier and to the planes where they want to go?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  No, I thought the question was: How can they get through
to the airport outside the airport?  And the answer is: To the best of
our knowledge, the Taliban checkpoints — they are letting through people
showing American passports.   
  
Now, that’s a different question when they get into the rush and crowd
of all the folks just outside the wall near the airport.  That’s why we
had to, I guess, ye- — was it yesterday or the day before? — we went
over the wall and brought in — how many?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  One hundred and sixty-nine.   
  
THE PRESIDENT:  One hundred and sixty-nine Americans.  So, it is a
process to try to figure out how we — how we deal with the mad rush of
non-Americans — those who didn’t help, those who are not on a priority
list — just any Afghan — any Afghan to be able to get out of the
country.   
  
And so my guess is that, no matter what, under what circumstances we —
anyone — there’s not a whole lot of Afghanis — there’s a whole lot of
Afghanis that just as soon come to America, whether there were any
involvement with the United States in the past at all, rather than stay
under Taliban rule or any — any rule.  
  
So, what I was saying is that we have an agreement that they will let
pass through the checkpoints that they — the Taliban — control.  They’ve
let Americans through.  
  
Q    But given this — given the negotiations with the Taliban, the
scenes that we’re seeing, can you just fully explain why the plan wasn’t
to go ahead with these evacuations of both Americans and allies before
the drawdowns began, before Bagram was closed, looking back several
months?  Because whether it was now or several months from now, there
seems to be a broad consensus that the Taliban would make these gains
and these would be needed at some point.  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Well, yeah, at some point.  But the point was that
although we were in contact with the Taliban and Doha for this whole
period of time, that “some point” wasn’t expected to be the total demise
of the Afghan National Force, which was 300 \[thousand\] persons.   
  
Let’s assume the Afghan National Force had continued to fight and ha- —
and they were surrounding Kabul.  It’d be a very different story.  Very
different story.   
  
But the con- — overwhelming consensus was that they — this was not —
they were not going to collapse.  The Afghan forces, they were not going
to leave.  They were not going to just abandon and then put down their
arms and take off.  So, that’s what’s happened.   
  
Thank you very, very much.  Thank you.  
  
2:17 P.M. EDT
