---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-08-03'
modified_time: 2021-08-03 18:46:36-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/08/03/remarks-by-president-biden-on-fighting-the-covid-19-pandemic/
published_time: 2021-08-03 18:46:35-04:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on Fighting the COVID-\u206019\_Pandemic"
---
 
4:29 P.M. EDT  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon.  Last week, I laid out what we need to
do to beat the COVID-19 vi- — pandemic and the challenges posed by the
Delta variant.  
  
This is a very different variant than what we’ve dealt with previously. 
It’s highly transmissible, and it’s causing a new wave of cases.  It
accounts for over 80 percent of all COVID-19 cases in the United States
today.  Experts tell us that we’re going to see these cases rise in the
weeks ahead — a largely preventable tragedy that will get worse before
it gets better.  
  
What’s different about this surge from previous ones is we have the
tools to prevent this rise in cases from shutting down  
our businesses, our schools, our society, as we saw what happened last
year.  
  
And while cases are on the rise, it’s important to note we’ve not seen a
comparable rise in hospitalizations or deaths in most areas of the
country.  
  
That’s because 165 million Americans are fully vaccinated, including 80
percent of the most vulnerable Americans — our seniors.  
  
The best line of defense against the Delta vac- — the virus is the
vaccine.  It’s as simple as that.  Period.  The vaccine.  
  
I want to be crystal clear about what’s happening in the country today:
We have a pandemic of the unvaccinated.  
  
Now, I know there’s a lot of misinformation out there, so here are the
facts: If you’re vaccinated, you are highly unlikely to get COVID-19. 
And even if you do, the chances are you won’t show any symptoms; and if
you do, they’ll most likely be very mild.  
  
Vaccinated people almost never are hospitalized with COVID-19.  In fact,
according to one recent study, 95 percent of overall COVID-19
hospitalizations are among those not fully vaccinated.    
  
And the data shows that virtually all the cases, hospitalizations, and
deaths due to COVID-19 are from the unvaccinated population.  
  
Last month, a study showed that over 99 percent of COVID-19 deaths have
among — have been among the unvaccinated people.  Ninety-nine percent.  
  
That means, if you’re unvaccinated, you are much more likely to, one,
get COVID-19; two, get hospitalized; and, three, die if you get it.   
  
This is a tragedy.  People are dying and will die who don’t have to
die.  The data is absolutely clear: As I’ve said, we have a pandemic of
the unvaccinated.  
  
Think of it this way: A hundred and ninety-one million Americans have
gotten at least one shot, including 70 percent of adults over the age of
18.  A hundred and sixty-five million Americans are fully vaccinated,
but about ninety million Americans are eligible for vaccines and still
haven’t gotten their first shot.  
  
You know, I think there’s a clear link between the lowest-vaccinated — I
know — I don’t think, actually — the lowest-vaccinated states and the
states with the highest case rates.  
  
This past week, the most vaccinated state in America,  
Vermont, has seen just five new cases — five — per day of COVID-19 for
every 100,000 people who live in that state.  That means, on any given
day, only 30 people in the entire state of Vermont got COVID-19.   
  
Nearby Maine, which has vaccinated almost 80 percent of their adults,
has seen just six new cases per 100,000.   
  
But the states with the lowest vaccination rates are seeing 10 to 20
times as many new cases per 100,000 people.  It’s moving like wildfire
through the unvaccinated community.  And it’s heartbreaking,
particularly because it’s preventable.  
  
That’s why we’re doing everything we can to get more people vaccinated. 
And we’re seeing real results.  
  
In the past two weeks, we have seen a 55 percent increase in the average
number of new people getting vaccinated every day.  
  
In the last seven days alone, nearly 3 million Americans have gotten
their first shot.  That’s the highest seven-day total in a month.  
  
Importantly, over the past two weeks, the eight states with the highest
current case rates have seen a doubling of the number of people newly
vaccinated each day.  The message is getting through, apparently.  
  
Louisiana has seen a 212 percent increase in the average number of newly
vaccinated people in that state per day, going from 3,600 to over 11,000
people vaccinated per day.  
  
Arkansas is up 99 percent.  Mississippi is up 125 percent.  Alabama is
up 186 percent — going from 3,200 to 9,150 people vaccinated per day. 
This will make a big difference.  
  
These are encouraging signs.  We have to continue our aggressive efforts
to vaccinate the unvaccinated.  
  
Last week, I announced additional steps to incentivize Americans to get
vaccinated, including calling on states to offer $100 for anyone willing
to step up and get a vaccination shot.   
  
You know, and already Minnesota and New Mexico have done that.  And
North Carolina announced its 100-day incentive — its $100 incentive
today.  
  
Places that have offered the hundred thou- — the hundred thousand —
(laughs) — the hundred dollars — that’d be really good.  I’d go back and
get vaccinated three times.  (Laughter.) But all kidding aside, offered
the $100 to get vaccination have seen an uptick of 25 percent of daily
vaccination rates.  
  
We also announced that small- and medium-sized businesses will be fully
reimbursed for offering paid time off for their employees to get
vaccinated and for them to take a child or a parent to get vaccinated.  
  
And I announced some tough, sometimes unpopular steps to keep people
safe and our economy strong.  All federal workers must report their
vaccination status or be subject to strict requirements.  Any federal
worker who does not attest to their vaccination status or is not
vaccinated will be required to mask no matter where they work, test one
to twice a week, socially distance, and generally will not be allowed to
travel for work.  
  
I directed my administration to take steps to apply similar standards to
all federal contractors.  If you want to do business with the federal
government, get your workers vaccinated.  
  
And I also directed the Pentagon to look at adding COVID-19 to the list
of vaccinations that are required for our troops because others are
required.  
  
I approved the Department of Veterans Affairs to require doctors,
nurses, and other healthcare workers who care for our veterans to be
vaccinated.  
  
And the good news is that now many are following the federal
government’s lead.  In the past several days, states and local officials
have come out to impose similar vaccination mandates.  
  
And the private sector is stepping up as well.  Even Fox has vaccination
requirements.  I want to thank Walmart, Google, Netflix, Disney, Tyson
Foods for their recent actions requiring vaccination for employees.  
  
Look, I know this isn’t easy, but I will have their backs and the backs
of other private and public sector leaders if they take such steps.  
  
But others have declined to step up.  I find it disappointing.  And
worst of all, some state officials are passing laws or signing orders
that forbid people from doing the right thing.   
  
As of now, seven states not only ban mask mandates, but also ban them in
their school districts, even for young children who cannot get
vaccinated.  Some states have even banned businesses and universities
from requiring workers and students to be masked or vaccinated.  
  
And the most extreme of those measures is like the one in Texas that say
state universities or community colleges could be fined if it allows a
teacher to ask her unvaccinated students to wear a mask.   
  
What are we doing?  
  
COVID-19 is a national challenge, and we must come together — we have to
come together — all of us together, as a country, to solve it.  
  
Make no mistake: The les- — the exc- — ex- — excuse me — the escalation
of cases is particularly concentrated in states with low vaccination
rates.  Just two states, Florida and Texas, account for one third of all
new COVID-19 cases in the entire country.  Just two states.   
  
Look, we need leadership from everyone.  And if some governors aren’t
willing to do the right thing to beat this pandemic, then they should
allow businesses and universities who want to do the right thing to be
able to do it.   
  
I say to these governors, “Please, help.”  But if you aren’t going to
help, at least get out of the way of the people who are trying to do the
right thing.  Use your power to save lives.  
  
I’ve made it our first and top priority to have a vaccine available for
every single American from the day I got elected.  That was my
priority.  And let me be clear: We have a supply for every single
American, and that will never change.  
  
At the same time, it’s also in our national interest to share some of
our vaccines with the world, which gets me to the second thing I want to
discuss today.  
  
From the beginning of my presidency, I’ve been very clear-eyed that we
need to attack this virus globally, not just at home, because it’s in
America’s self-interest to do so.  
  
The virus knows no boundaries.  You can’t build a wall high enough to
keep it out.  There is no wall high enough or ocean wide enough to keep
us safe from a vaccination in other — from the COVID-19 in other
countries.  
  
In fact, just like the original virus that caused COVID-19, the Delta
variant came from abroad.  As long as the virus continue to rage outs- —
rage outside the United States, potentially more dangerous variants
could arrive at our shores again.    
  
And we know that COVID-19 in other countries stifles economic growth,
disrupts supply chains, risks instability and weakness of governments. 
And as we’ve seen in the United States, the key to growing economies is
to vaccinate people.   
  
So just as the American economy is recovering, it’s in all of our
interests to have global — the global economy begin to recover as
well.   
  
This is about our values.  We value inherent dignity of all people — the
inherent dignity of everyone.  In times of trouble, Americans reach out
to offer a helping hand.  That’s who we are.  
  
And I’ve said before: In this fight against COVID-19, the United States
is committed to be the arsenal of vaccines, just as we were the arsenal
of democracy during World War Two.  
  
And we’re backing up that commitment.  We have contributed more than any
other nation to COVAX — the collective global efforts delivering
COVID-19 vaccines across the world.  
  
We have supported manufacturing efforts abroad through our partnerships
with Japan, India, Australia –- known as “the Quad.”  
  
During my trip to Europe in June, I announced that the United States
would purchase a groundbreaking 500 million doses of Pfizer and then
donate them — those doses — nearly — to nearly a hundred low- and
middle-income countries who don’t have the vaccine.  Those doses will
start to ship at the end of this month.   
  
We also announced that we’d donate 80 million doses of our own vaccine
to supply the world, which has already begun.   
  
And today, I have an important update.  We’ve already exceeded 80
million doses that have been — gone out.  As of today, the United States
has shipped over 110 million doses of U.S. vaccines to 65 countries that
are among the hardest hit in the world.  
  
Let me say it again: As of today, we have shipped over 110 million doses
to 65 nations.  
  
According to the United Nations, this is more than the donations of all
24 countries that have donated any vaccine to other countries, including
China and Russia — all those nations combined. 

These vaccine donations from America are free.  We’re not selling them. 
There are no demands, no conditions, no coercion attached.  And there is
no favoritism and no strings attached.  We’re doing this to save lives
and to end this pandemic.  That’s it.  
  
In fact, we’re donating vaccines to countries that have real issues — we
have real issues with.  
  
And we’ll continue to give tens of millions of the doses away across the
summer and work to increase U.S. manufacturing and manufacturing of
vaccines around the world as well.  
  
And it’s not just vaccines.  We are continuing to provide  
countries with — in need — with more testing, protective equipment, and
personnel to stem the surge of the virus.  We’ve done it in India and
elsewhere.  
  
Let me close with this.  I’ve said before: In the race for the 21st
century between democracies and autocracies, we need to prove that
democracies can deliver.   
  
And the democracies of the world are looking to America to lead again —
in two ways.  First, to demonstrate we can control this virus at home. 
And second, to show we can help address it around the world.  
  
Vaccinate America and help vaccinate the world — that’s how we’re about
to beat this thing.  
  
We’re always going to have enough doses for every American who wants
one.  Our work in donating vaccines to the world is about America
following through on our promises and delivering what we say we’ll
deliver.  
  
It’s showing how American science and technology, American businesses
and academia, and our government can all work together.  
  
Above all, it’s proving democracies can deliver and, yet again, that
America is back leading the world — not by the example of our power, but
by the power of our example.  
  
We still have a lot of work to do.  So if you’re unvaccinated, please,
please, please get the shot.   
  
But just don’t take it from me.  Just read the news.  Listen to the
voices of the unvaccinated patients in the hospital.  They are
<s>spending</s> \[sending\] the most powerful message to their families
and everyone around the world — a powerful message to everybody.  As
they’re lying in bed, many dying from COVID-19, they’re asking, “Doc,
can I get the vaccine?”  The doctors have to look them in the eye and
say, “No, sorry.  It’s too late.”  
  
Right now, too many people are dying or watching a loved one dying and
saying, “If I just got vaccinated.  If I just…”  
  
Folks, this is isn’t about politics.  The virus doesn’t care if you’re a
Democrat or a Republican.  This is about life and death.  Life and
death.  
  
I can’t say it any more plainly than this: The vaccine saves lives, and
it could save yours or your child’s.  
You know, I know we can do this.  We’re the United States of America. 
We’re prepared like never before.  We have the tools and the resources
to save lives at home and around the world.   
  
This is who we are.  This is what we do.  This is why there’s no nation
like us on Earth.  
  
God bless you all.  And may God protect our troops.   
  
And I’ll take a few questions.  
  
Q    Mr. President, I have a question for you on coronavirus, but first
I’d like to start with the news of the day — given, back in March, you
said that if the investigation confirmed the allegations against
Governor Cuomo, then he should resign.  So, will you now call on him to
resign, given the investigators said the 11 women were credible?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  I stand by that statement.   
  
Q    Are you now calling on him to resign?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Yes.  
  
Q    And if he doesn’t resign, do you believe he should be impeached and
removed from office?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Let’s take one thing at a time here.  I think he should
resign.  
  
Q    Do you think —  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  I understand that the state legislature may decide to
impeach.  I don’t know that for a fact; I’ve not read all that data.   
  
Q    And he’s using a photo of you embracing him in his self-defense to
say that these are commonplace kind of embraces that he made in the
allegations against him.  Do you condone that?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Look, I’m not going to flyspeck this.  I’m sure there
are some embraces that were totally innocent, but app- — apparently, the
Attorney General decided there were things that weren’t.   
  
Q    And on coronavirus, if I could ask you a question about the
evictions.  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Why don’t you come up and take the platform? 
(Laughter.)   
  
Q    No, thank you.   
  
On the evictions and the moratorium that lapsed on Saturday night: What
is your strategy to prevent potentially millions of people from being
evicted from their homes, given what we are told your administration is
considering — a targeted moratorium — is likely to face legal
challenges?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Any call for a moratorium based on the Supreme Court
recent decision is likely to face obstacles.  I’ve indicated to the CDC
I’d like them to look at other alternatives than the one that is in pow-
— in existence, which the Court has declared they’re not going to allow
to continue.  And the CDC will have something to announce to you in the
next hour to two hours.  
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
Q    President Biden, on overseas coronavirus vaccines: Should other
high-income countries follow the lead of the United States and increase
donations to low- and middle-income countries?   
  
THE PRESIDENT:  I think those countries that have been able to cover
their population and have the ability to provide either dollars and/or
vaccine for the 100 or so na- — poor nations that need help should do
so.  We had that discussion at the G7.  A number of those countries said
they were going to do that.  Some have followed through.   
  
The point I was making is, though, I’ve kept the commitment — we’ve kept
the commitment that we would do what we said, which is more than all the
rest of the countries combined thus far.  
  
Q    Mr. President, do you believe that Governor DeSantis and Governor
Abbott are personally making decisions that are harming their own
citizens?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  I believe the results of their decisions are not good
for their constituents.  And it’s clear to me and to most of the medical
experts that the decisions being made, like not allowing mask mandates
in school and the like, are bad health policy — bad health policy.  
  
Q    Mr. President, I have a question about something that you just
said.  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  I’m sure you do.  
  
Q    Thank you.  You just said there is no wall high enough and no ocean
wide enough to protect us from the virus.  So what is the thinking
behind letting untested and unvaccinated migrants cross the southern
border into U.S. cities in record numbers?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  There is — what we’re doing — we have not withdrawn the
order that is sometimes critical — criticized — saying that unvaccinated
people should be — go back across the border.   
  
But unaccompanied children is a different story, because there’s —
that’s the most humane thing to do is to test them and to treat them and
not send them back alone.  
  
Q    Mr. President, have you spoken with Governor Cuomo today?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  I have not.  
  
Q    And then one other question on the virus.  You just said we have —
we have to continue our aggressive efforts to get the unvaccinated
vaccinated.  Other countries have found a lot of success in requiring
vaccines in public places.  New York City just announced today that
they’ll require vaccines for restaurants and gyms.  Do you think more
cities and states should institute rules like that?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  I do.  
  
Q    And are you going to publicly call on them?  Should they institute
a vaccine passport-type system, or it’s up to each city and state to
figure that out on their own?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  I’m sorry.  What did you say?  
  
Q    Do you think that they should institute a vaccine passport-type
system or some sort of verification to use public spaces?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  I don’t think they need to do that.  I think they just
need to give the authority of those restaurants or businesses to say,
“In order to come in, you have to give proof that you’ve been vaccinated
or you can’t come in.”  
  
I’ll take a couple more.  
  
Q    Mr. President can I ask you about news of the day — one more on
Governor Cuomo?  You’re calling for him to resign now.  My question is:
Do you think he should be prosecuted?  And what is your message to the
women who have now accused him of sexually harassing them and abusing
them?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Look, what I said was: If the investigation of the
Attorney General concluded that the allegations were correct, that —
back in March — that I would recommend he resign.  That’s what I’m doing
today.  I’ve not read the report.  I don’t know the detail of it.  All I
know is the end result.  
  
Q    Mr. President, a question on COVID, if I could, really quickly. 
It’s the eviction moratorium.  Can you explain a little bit more why it
took so long to have a possible eviction moratorium be put into place? 
There was — there are people — this expired on Saturday.  I’m wondering
— there are folks who are saying it took too long for this to happen.  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Well, look, the courts made it clear that the existing
moratorium was not constitutional; it wouldn’t stand.  And they made
that clear back in, I guess, July 15th or July 18th.   
  
In the meantime, what I’ve been pushing for and calling for is we have
billions of dollars that were given to states to provide for rent and
utilities for those people who can’t afford to stay in their homes
because they can’t — an apartment — they can’t pay their rent.  And so,
we’re urging them to distribute those funds to the landlords.  I believe
that would take care of the vast majority of what needs to be done to
keep people in their — in their ho- — in their apartments now.   
  
And so that’s what we’re working on.  Some states have done it and some
communities have, but they have not.  The money is there.  It’s not — we
don’t have to send it out.  It’s been sent out to the states and
counties — billions of dollars — for the express purpose of providing
for back rent and rent for the people who are in the middle of this
crisis.  And that’s there; that’s what we’re pushing now.  And we’ve
been pushing that.  That’s the immediate thing to do.  
  
I’ll take one more question.

Q    Mr. President, thank you so much.  There was an expectation that
you would be announcing new vaccines to the world today — a new — other
than the ones you promised.  Are you ready to send more vaccines to the
world?   
  
And there is a delegation from the White House going to Brazil
tomorrow.  Are they bringing more vaccines?  Are they announcing more
vaccines to Brazil?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  No — are they announcing more vaccines overall?  
  
Q    Overall.  And then to Brazil — for the delegation coming to Brazil
tomorrow — will you be bringing vaccines?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  The answer is: I don’t know whether the delegation going
physically has vaccines with them.  We have provided vaccines to —  
  
Q    Are they bringing the announcement?  Are they announcing there?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Well, no, there’s a need for several billion doses
around the world.  We have committed to over a half a billion doses. 
And we’re trying to provide for more and provide for the capacity of
countries like India to be able to produce the vaccine themselves.  And
we’re helping them do that.  That’s what we’re doing now.   
  
And we’re trying to — we’re — and, by the way, it’s free.  We’re not
charging anybody anything.  And we’re trying to do as much as we
possibly can.   
  
Thank you all very much.  
  
Q    Mr. President, we’re learning that your administration is about to
announce a new partial eviction moratorium, COVID related.  Can you tell
us any more about that?  And are you sure it’s going to pass Supreme
Court muster?

THE PRESIDENT:  The answer is twofold.  One, I’ve sought out
constitutional scholars to determine what is the best possibility that
would come from executive action, or the CDC’s judgment, what could they
do that was most likely to pass muster, constitutionally.  
  
The bulk of the constitutional scholarship says that it’s not likely to
pass constitutional muster.  Number one.  But there are several key
scholars who think that it may and it’s worth the effort.  But the
present — you could not — the Court has already ruled on the present
eviction moratorium.   
  
So I think what you’re going to see, and I — look, I want to make it
clear: I told you I would not tell the Justice Department or the medical
experts, the scientists what they should say or do.  So I don’t want to
get ahead.   
  
The CDC has to make the — I asked the CDC to go back and consider other
options that may be available to them.  You’re going to hear from them
what those other options are.  
  
I have been informed they’re about to make a judgment as to potential
other options.  Whether that option will pass constitutional measure
with this administration, I can’t tell you.  I don’t know.  There are a
few scholars who say it will and others who say it’s not likely to.   
  
But, at a minimum, by the time it gets litigated, it will probably give
some additional time while we’re getting that $45 billion out to people
who are, in fact, behind in the rent and don’t have the money.  That’s
why it was passed in — in the act that we passed in the beginning of my
administration, and it went to the states.   
  
We were under the impression that the states were moving this money out
relatively rapidly.  So, for example, if I’m in an apartment — if you’re
in an apartment, and you’re behind on four- or five-month’s rent, and
let’s say your rent is $2,000 a month — I’m just making this up out of
the blue — and you’re behind, you need $10,000 to catch up.  Hardly
anybody has that $10,000.  But there is money that the states have that
can give to the landlord that $10,000 to the back rent.   
  
The future rent, it’s unlikely — at least the hope is, since they have
been made whole to that point — that they’d be inclined — because the
economy is growing — inclined not to throw someone out in the street;
keep that person — no guarantee — keep that person in the apartment,
keep these kids in the same school district, and count on being able to
have the opportunity for that — that person to be able — who may now be
employed — to pay their rent.  
  
But in the meantime, I’ve asked, isn’t there any safety valve we can put
in?  And it’s the one I explained to you.  Again, CDC will announce that
and the details of exactly how it works.  I’m not telling — I told them
I want them to take a look.  I didn’t tell them what they had to do.   
  
And my hope is, it’s going to be a new moratorium that in some way — and
I’m not going to announce it now; I’ll let them announce it — in some
way covers close to 90 percent of the American people who are renters. 
And so that’s all I can tell you now.  
  
Thank you very much.  
  
Q    Why not 100 percent?  What’s the difference?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Because it’s a — (laughs) — let them explain that to
you.  Okay?  I don’t want to get too far ahead.  
  
Thank you.  
  
Q    Mr. President, is COVAX doing enough to get shots in arms?  
  
Q    Why not call Governor DeSantis, Mr. President?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  (Laughs.)  To say “happy birthday”?  What?  I mean —   
  
Q    To deliver the message that you seem to be delivering today about
“get out of the way.”  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  He knows the message.  He knows the message.  We had a
little discussion when I was down there.  He knows the message.   
  
Q    What did he say to you in that discussion?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  (Laughs.)  See you all later.  
  
5:00 P.M. EDT
