---
category: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-08-26'
modified_time: 2021-09-07 16:10:15-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/08/26/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-in-press-conference-in-hanoi-vietnam/
published_time: 2021-08-26 06:39:00-04:00
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris in Press Conference in Hanoi,\_Vietnam"
---
 
JW Marriott Hotel Hanoi  
Hanoi, Vietnam

3:00 P.M. ICT  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon.  I’m going to give a few remarks
and then I’ll take questions.   
  
     First, I want to thank our Vietnamese hosts for so warmly welcoming
us to Vietnam.  As many of you know, I am the first Vice President to
visit Vietnam since diplomatic relations were established in 1995.  And
I believe that this trip signals the beginning of the next chapter in
the relationship between the United States and Vietnam.   
  
     We have had an enduring commitment to this relationship because it
matters to the people, to the security, and to the prosperity of the
American people and, we believe, the people of Vietnam.   
  
     In fact, our cooperation on a whole host of issues today shows that
the trajectory of our relationship since the normalization has been
nothing short of remarkable when we think about where we have been,
where we are, and where we are headed.    
  
Now we are strengthening our partnership.  Together we will take on the
traditional issues and challenges, and we will take on those of the
future, seeing within those challenges also the opportunities that we
have to forge new aspects of our relationship.  
  
First, I know that the COVID-19 surge is the number-one issue for the
Vietnamese people right now, as evidenced by the trip we took recently,
just this afternoon, to the National Institutes of Hygiene to deliver 1
million vaccines from the United States to the people of Vietnam, on top
of the 5 million that we’ve already shared.  
  
Just as you stood with us — and I say this to the people of Vietnam —
during the earliest days of the pandemic, as early as the spring of
2020, we now are here for you in this moment of need.  More United
States-sourced vaccinations arrived through COVAX in Hanoi this
morning.  
  
We are also supplying freezers to distribute the vaccines, and providing
millions in public health assistance — millions of dollars in public
health assistance.    
  
And we opened a new CDC Southeast Asia Regional Office.   
  
We do intend and hope that the people of Vietnam know that we will be
with you as you battle this surge.  
  
Even in the midst of the pandemic, we will continue to partner together
to strengthen our economic ties.  For example, during our meetings with
the officials and leaders here in Vietnam, I advocated for a reduction
of tariffs on American agricultural goods, and there was a positive
reaction.  And we’re looking forward to following up on that
conversation.   
  
We also launched initiatives that will help Vietnam transition to a more
digital economy, and it will help grow women- and ethnic minority-owned
businesses.    
  
As part of our economic partnership, we have also reached agreements
about the importance of addressing the climate crisis and collaborating
toward a clean energy future.  In addition to the extensive
conversations that I’ve had with the leaders of the Vietnamese
government, I’ve also had conversations with young leaders who are
working in the community on this very issue.  
  
We launched, as part of our initiative on working together in
partnership on the climate crisis, the Mekong Coastal Habitat
Conservation program to help with the issues that are impacting the
Mekong Delta region.    
  
And I welcomed Vietnam in joining the Agricultural Innovation Mission
for Climate, because we know we need to accelerate the adoption of
climate-smart agriculture.    
  
And, in fact, I had extensive conversations also with the Prime Minister
yesterday about the connection between that technology and the work that
we are doing in the United States, in terms of space program.  And the
Prime Minister expressed a real interest in working together with us,
understanding that part of that program would include what we can do
around satellite technology, helping farmers, in terms of predicting
weather cycles.   
  
We all agree — and certainly, the U.N. published the report in the last
couple of weeks — that the climate issue has reached crisis proportions,
when, as we all know, the United Nations issued a report with broad
global consensus that by the year 2030 we could see temperatures rise as
much as 2.7 degrees Fahrenheit.  And the cri- — the crisis then is
urgent, and we are proud to stand with Vietnam, and other partners and
allies around the globe, in meeting this moment.    
  
Throughout my visit here, I also reaffirmed the commitment that the
United States has to our common vision for a free and open
Indo-Pacific.  The United States will continue our high-level security
cooperation in support of a strong, prosperous, and independent
Vietnam.  
  
And we will continue to work with Vietnam to push back against threats
to freedom of navigation and the rule-based international order.  
  
I also raised the issue of human rights.  In my meetings, I made clear
the importance that the United States places on human rights.  We will
always be true to our values and will not shy away from speaking out,
even when those conversations may be difficult to have and perhaps
difficult to hear.  
  
When we talk about opening up the next chapter, we also are very proud
that, during this trip, we were able to sign a lease for 99 years to
establish the United States Embassy here in Hanoi.  And we take, as a
point of pride, that it is a 99-year lease as evidence of our enduring
commitment to the partnership we have with Vietnam.  
  
In the same vein, our commitment, as I’ve said at the beginning of this
trip, is in full appreciation and pride of the role of the United States
as a member of the Indo-Pacific region, understanding that Southeast
Asia is at the seat of this region and that the country of Vietnam holds
a particular importance and significance to the United States, as does
the first stop on this trip, which is when we were in the country of
Singapore.    
  
Whether in Singapore or Vietnam, Southeast Asia or the Indo-Pacific
region, the United States intends to strengthen our participation and
partnership with our partners and allies, and further and strengthen our
interests in a way that is collaborative, meeting the challenges of the
moment and the challenges of tomorrow, together.  
  
Throughout this trip and in many meetings with government officials,
business leaders, or civil society, I was reminded about just how much
potential there is in this region and, dare I say, the potential that we
all have when we have the ability to see what is possible, and then have
the ambition to achieve what is possible around common interests and
common goals.  
  
We know it matter deeply to the wellbeing of the American people that we
maintain and strengthen these partnerships.  And that’s why, in the
years ahead, we will be coming back, time and time again, as we follow
through and chart this next chapter in the partnership and the
relationship we have with the spirit of understanding that it is
mutually beneficial and that there is much that we can do together.  
  
With that, I’ll take questions.  
  
MS. SANDERS:  Our first question will come from Nguyen Khanh from Tuoi
Tre.  
  
Q    (As interpreted.)  You have raised the question about the
partnership between the U.S. and Vietnam to the strategic level.  Could
you please collaborate with us, share with us what you mean by that? 
Any details you could share with that?  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Sure.  So, the relationship that we have with
Vietnam is a relationship that really is built on the foundation of
understanding what is in our mutual desire to strengthen both our
nations’ security and economic standing, and our ability to meet the
challenges of tomorrow.   
  
As I said, there were extensive conversations and a joining of
perspective during the meetings that we held here, and particularly
yesterday, with Vietnamese officials, where we talked, for example,
about the issue of COVID as just the current example of a global public
health crisis and what we can do together to join forces to not only
deal with the current moment — as I’ve said and previously mentioned,
the issue of vaccines and what we can do; Vietnam helped the United
States out around PPE; we are helping Vietnam with vaccines — but also
what we can do together to be prepared — we call it “preparedness” — for
the inevitable next pandemic.    
  
That is part of what it means to strengthen this relationship
strategically — “strategically,” meaning thinking about what might be
our challenges, but also what are our opportunities.    
  
For example, we also spent a lot of time talking about what we can do
together as it relates to the supply chain, and how we understand and
know that, one, there’s a connection between a global public health
crisis like COVID and the production, then, of necessary goods and how
that can have a global impact on economies but also the workforce.   
  
We talked extensively, for example, about what that means in terms of
increasing the strength of our workforce, but also increasing the
strength of our supply chain.    
  
So those are some of the many examples.  But, again, going through the
list, it relates to that, it really relates to what we can do together
on the issue of climate.  
  
I will tell you that it was a very productive and in-depth conversation
about how we share the concerns.  If you look at the Mekong River and
what is happening in terms of erosion there, we’re seeing the same kind
of issues in the United States and what we can do together that’s both
about an investment in innovation and technology, and also thinking
about how we can grow our economies around thinking about things like
renewable energy.    
  
So that’s what — that’s what that conversation was, and those are
examples of what it means to strengthen the strategic relationship.  
  
MS. SANDERS:  Our next question will come from Alex Jaffe of the
Associated Press.  
  
Q    Hi.  Thank you, Madam Vice President.  Before I get to my question,
I think it’s important to follow up on the Havana Syndrome incident that
delayed your travel here.  Do you have any sense of who was behind
that?    
  
And considering that these incidents have happened all over the world
over the past five years, what do you say to diplomats that are
concerned for their safety?  And is the U.S. doing anything to address
that situation?    
  
And then I have a follow-up on Afghanistan.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Okay.  On the issue of the health incidents — and
we call them anomalous, as you’ve mentioned, health incidents — I will
tell you that we’re looking into it, and I’m not able to share much more
at this time.    
  
But on your point about embassy staff, I met with them today and then
also saw them yesterday during the lease signing ceremony.  And I will
tell you that the people who work in our embassies, be it here in
mission Vietnam or around the globe, are some of the most courageous and
selfless public servants that you can meet.   
  
I talked with them extensively about the importance of their work and
also a recognition of the sacrifices they make.  For example, during the
last year and a half, around the COVID crisis, many of them, sadly, were
unable to go home even when they lost family members to COVID.   
  
We talked about the significance of their work in doing the groundwork
that we need to do around the globe with our partners and our allies of
strengthening the relationships around people-to-people ties and
relationships.  And that is the work they do, and their safety and
security is one of the highest priorities.  
  
Q    But just on Afghanistan — because you yourself have said throughout
this trip that the evacuation is at the top of mind for most Americans. 
So, when we’re talking about the evacuation, how does the U.S. measure
success?  I mean, what does the completion of that mission look like? 
Is it a matter of simply evacuating all Americans?  Is there a number of
Afghans that we’re hoping to evacuate?   
  
And with that in mind, now that we’re seeing that there are terrorist
threats against the Kabul airport — there’s sort of an increasingly
difficult security situation there — can you affirm that Americans are
safer today than they were before the U.S. withdrew from Afghanistan?  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  As I’ve said before, and as you’ve noted, our
highest priority right now is evacuating American citizens, evacuating
Afghans who worked with us and Afghans who are at risk, with a priority
around women and children.  And we have made significant progress in
that regard.  I believe since August 14th, I believe, we have evacuated
over 80,000 people.   
  
And, as you know, each day and night, we continue to evacuate thousands
of people, understanding that it is — it is risky for them to be there. 
It is a — it is a dangerous and difficult mission, but it must be seen
through, and we intend to see it through as best as we can.  
  
MS. SANDERS:  Thank you.  Our next question will come from Jenny Leonard
from Bloomberg.   
  
Q    Thank you, Madam Vice President.  You spent part of your day today
— I’m over here.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Oh, hi.  (Laughs.)  Thank you.  Sorry.  
  
Q    You spent part of your day today with civil society leaders and
discussed their efforts to increase human and political rights in this
country.  And during this trip, you’ve spoken about how Vietnam is a key
partner as the U.S. pursues a vision of a free and open Indo-Pacific, as
you just reiterated.  
  
Freedom House, however, rates Vietnam as not free, citing increasing
arrests of journalists and human rights activists, restrictions on
political activism, and a lack of democracy.  So my question for you is:
Given that Vietnam and China have very similar political systems, what
makes Vietnam a key U.S. partner and China a threat to the region?  
  
And then, did you get any commitments in your meetings with government
leaders to secure the release of Vietnamese dissidents or any other
tangible result?  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So, on your last point, those issues were raised
and discussed, as was the issue of human rights — both with the leaders
of the Vietnamese government, as well as with civil society leaders —
because it is a real concern for the United States.   
  
And as I said in my opening comments, we’re not going to shy away from
difficult conversations.  Difficult conversations often must be had with
the people that you otherwise may have a partnership with.  And we do
have a partnership with Vietnam.   
  
In addition to concerns about human rights issues, we have a partnership
as it relates to, for example, again — and I’ve said — the reciprocal
relationship that we’ve had around assisting the citizens of each of our
countries during this global health crisis called COVID-19.   
  
We have a relationship with Vietnam when it comes to issues that relate
to our economic strength, including, for example, the concern that
American farmers have about tariffs.  And that is why I raised the issue
of the possibility of a reduction of tariffs around American
agricultural goods.   
  
So there is a lot of work to be done — there’s no question about it —
that is both about strengthening our nations and, in particular, our
security concerns.  And as you said, freedom of navigation is a high
priority for us; it relates not only to security, but also to commerce. 
And what we must do to continue to speak up when necessary about human
rights issues.  And we’ll continue to do that.  
  
MS. SANDERS:  Our next question will come from Tarini Parti of the Wall
Street Journal.  And Tarini is right over there.  
  
Q    Madam Vice President, you called out China this week for its
bullying and aggressive maritime actions.  If China continues its
aggression in the region, particularly in Taiwan, what is the Biden
administration prepared to do differently to deter it, given that
nothing seems to be working so far?  Would the administration consider
significantly increasing its military presence in the South China Sea,
or sanctions?  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah — and this relates to the last question as
well.  When it comes to Beijing, let me be very clear — and the
President has been very clear: We welcome stiff competition.  We do not
seek conflict.  But on issues like you raised — the South China Sea —
we’re going to speak up.  We’re going to speak up when there are actions
that Beijing takes that threaten the rules-based international order —
again, such as activity in the South China Sea.    
  
And the issue, in particular, of freedom of navigation in that regard is
a vital issue for this region.  I spoke of it both in Singapore and here
in Vietnam.   
  
And we are going to continue to do what we can to make sure that we stay
committed to our partners and our allies on these important kinds of
issues.   
  
But our policy is much broader than the South China Sea.  And the
partnership that we have here in Southeast Asia, again — and I will
repeat myself — has to do with a number of issues that are about
productivity and about strengthening the standing of each of our
countries.   
  
MS. SANDERS:  And our final question will come from Sally Bronston from
NBC.  Sally is right over there.   
  
Q    Madam Vice President, you’ve been a strong advocate for women and
children throughout your career.  What specific options does the U.S.
have to continue helping at-risk women and girls — who are not part of
formal U.S. programs — leave Afghanistan after the August 31st deadline,
if they wish to do so?  What will the administration do to support women
who are not permitted to leave Afghanistan?  The Taliban claims it will
respect women’s rights within Islamic law.  How will the U.S. hold the
Taliban accountable on this?  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.  Well, you are right — I have worked almost
my entire career on a number of issues but with a particular emphasis on
the protection of women and children.  And there’s no question that any
of us who are paying attention are concerned about that issue in
Afghanistan.   
  
We have said before, and I will say again, that we are going to do what
we are able to do in terms of the evacuation process, but in addition to
that, what we are able to do politically and diplomatically to secure
and to continue to work on the protection of women and children in that
region, including working with our allies.   
  
And it is no secret that many of our allies are prepared to join with us
in ensuring that we keep a focus on that issue, in that region, and do
everything that we can, and to do it together as a global community.  
  
MS. SANDERS:  Thank you, everyone.  That concludes our press
conference.  
  
3:22 P.M. ICT  
