---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-08-23'
modified_time: 2021-09-07 13:06:58-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/08/23/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-and-prime-minister-lee-of-singapore-in-joint-press-conference-singapore-singapore/
published_time: 2021-08-23 03:56:00-04:00
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris and Prime Minister Lee of Singapore in Joint\
  \ Press Conference | Singapore,\_Singapore"
---
 
The Istana  
Singapore, Singapore

1:38 P.M. SST  
  
PRIME MINISTER LEE:  Vice President Kamala Harris, ladies and gentlemen:
Good afternoon to all of you.  I welcome Vice President Harris to
Singapore.  We had an excellent discussion this morning and reaffirmed
the robust and enduring partnership between Singapore and the United
States.  
  
I also expressed our appreciation for the U.S.’s active role in the
Asia-Pacific, and especially in Southeast Asia, and our shared support
for a stable, rules-based order in the region based on international
law, where all countries can both cooperate and compete peacefully with
one another and prosper together.  
  
The Vice President’s visit follows Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin’s
visit here just a month ago.  It emphasizes the U.S. administration’s
commitment to this region and shows that the U.S. has both strategic and
economic stakes in Southeast Asia.  We value the U.S.’s — the U.S.
renewing its ties with friends and partners here, and especially with
Singapore.  
  
Economic cooperation between the U.S. and Singapore is dynamic and
flourishing.  Our FTA with the U.S., signed in 2004, was the U.S.’s
first with an Asian country.  Since then, our bilateral trade, which is
well-balanced and mutually beneficial, has more than doubled.  And
Singapore is also the second-largest Asian investor in the United
States, with direct investment stock of 65 billion U.S. dollars.  
  
Our investments in the U.S., together with American exports to
Singapore, support over a quarter million American jobs.  Today,
Singapore is home to nearly 5,500 U.S. companies.  The U.S. is
Singapore’s largest foreign direct investor, and FDI stock of the U.S.
in Singapore is 315 billion U.S. dollars.  It’s more than U.S.
investments in China, India, and South Korea combined.  
  
On security and defense, the U.S. has played an important and
constructive role in the region for over 70 years.  Singapore is a Major
Security Cooperation Partner of the U.S., and we have consistently
supported a strong U.S. presence in the region through our words and
actions.   
  
Our two countries cooperate well on transnational issues, including
terrorism, cybersecurity, and counterproliferation.  Our security,
intelligence, and law enforcement agencies hold regular dialogues.  
  
Singapore participated in the International Security Assistance Force,
or ISAF, in Afghanistan.  And we were later the first Southeast Asian
country to contribute personnel and assets to the Global Coalition to
Defeat ISIS, which was in Iraq.  
  
The U.S. is a partner nation in Singapore’s newly established
multilateral Counter-Terrorism Information Facility.  We discussed these
issues with Vice President Harris.  And on Afghanistan specifically, I
mentioned to Vice President that we knew that the U.S. was conducting an
evacuation operation of refugees from Afghanistan, and Singapore would
offer — would like to offer to the U.S. the use of the RSAF’s — Republic
of Singapore Air Force’s Airbus 330 Multi-Role Tanker and Transporter
aircraft, in order to help with the airlifts.  
  
Our defense cooperation goes back many decades.  Singapore has one of
the largest foreign training presences in the U.S.  We deeply appreciate
the U.S.’s support for our training detachments in Arizona, at Luke Air
Force Base, and in Idaho, at Mountain Home.  
  
Two years ago, we renewed the 1990 Memorandum of Understanding which
provides the U.S. military with access to Singapore’s and naval bases.  
  
Vice President Harris will be visiting Changi Naval Base later this
afternoon, and there, I hope she’ll see how Singapore has supported the
U.S. military presence and its defense engagements in the region.   
  
We’ve hosted rotational deployment of U.S. aircraft and navy ships, and
also including littoral combat ships, such as the USS Tulsa, which the
Vice President will be visiting.  
  
Our bilateral cooperation takes place in the context of regional and
multilateral cooperation efforts.  Singapore appreciates the U.S.
participation in ASEAN and regional forums like the ARF, the ADMM-Plus,
and APEC.  We work together at these forums reflecting our shared
commitment to multilateralism to tackle regional and global issues like
climate change.  
  
On this 55th anniversary of U.S.-Singapore diplomatic relations, I’m
happy that we are embarking on new areas of partnership.  We concluded
three agreements between our cyber, defense, and finance industries —
agencies.  Singapore and U.S. are also launching a climate partnership.
 And we are pleased to join the — we’re also pleased with our joint
Smart City capacity-building initiatives.  
  
We’re elevating the U.S.-Singapore Collaboration Platform MOU to a new
partnership for growth and innovation.  And we welcome the
U.S.-Singapore Supply Chain Dialogue to work together to strengthen
supply chain resilience.  
  
On pandemic preparedness, we will pursue collaboration on genome
sequencing and epige- — epidemic intelligence, which will speed up
identification of COVID-19 variants as well as emerging disease threats,
and augment regional preparedness for current and future pandemics.   
  
We’re also happy to see both sides cooperating on space, which is the
next frontier.  
  
It’s a substantial agenda of deliverables which will enhance our
partnership, and I’m confident that our longstanding and multilateral —
multifaceted bilateral relationship will continue to strengthen year by
year.   
  
Thank you very much.    
  
MS. CHANG:  Thank you, Prime Minister.  
  
Madam Vice President, please.   
  
VICE PRESIDENT HARRIS:  Thank you, Prime Minister Lee.  You have been a
longstanding friend of the United States.  You have been a counselor and
a friend to many of my predecessors who have talked with me about the
friendship and the history of work together.  And I was honored to be a
part of that tradition with this visit today and our extensive
conversations about many topics.  So, thank you.  And thank you for the
warm welcome.  
  
And I am here because the United States has a longstanding and enduring
relationship with Singapore — with Singapore in the context of Southeast
Asia and in the context of the United States being a member of the
Indo-Pacific region.  And we take that membership seriously.   
  
It is a partnership that we have with Singapore and Southeast Asia that
relies on the priorities of the United States that are both priorities
that relate to our security as well as our economic wellbeing, and
increasingly — certainly the pandemic has highlighted — the importance
of working together as partners on the issue of global health.  
  
The conversation that we had today was also in many ways defined by what
I think we all understand to be a new era that we’re embarking on — a
new era as defined by many of the issues that I mentioned: the issue of
pandemic and global health; the issue of the climate crisis, which we
spoke extensively about; the issue of cybersecurity.  And on these
issues, as well as the traditional issues that we have partnered with
Singapore on, we are looking forward to strengthening this relationship
and our collaboration and partnership.   
  
And today, we are in Singapore to stress and reaffirm our enduring
relationship to this country and in this region, and to reinforce a
shared vision of a free and open Indo-Pacific region, and to reaffirm
our mutual interest in peace and stability in Southeast Asia.  
  
Prime Minister Lee and I had a productive conversation on how our two
nations can partner together to fulfill this vision. In that context,
Prime Minister, I thank you for the very generous offer that you’ve made
to assist the United States in our evacuations from Afghanistan, and we
look forward to following up on that discussion.  
  
On the issues that we discussed, I’ll start with the issue of global
health because it is one of the dominant issues that is impacting all
nations.  And on that issue, we discussed the importance of working
together to end this pandemic but also to prevent future pandemics.   
  
Singapore’s approach to managing the pandemic has been commendable, but
we all must do more to not only end the current pandemic but to invest
in what we know will be more.   
  
From day one, President Biden has been clear about the importance of
vaccinating people in the United States against COVID-19 and our
commitment to being an arsenal of vaccines for the world.  That is why
we have provided millions of vaccine doses to countries within Southeast
Asia.  And Singapore has been very generous in the way that it has
contributed to the work that needs to be done in this region and around
the world.  
  
     As the Delta variant threatens communities, the Prime Minister and
I discussed how the United States and Singapore can partner to increase
the capacity of Southeast Asia to identify new COVID variants and boost
regional preparedness.    
  
     Secondly, we discussed our partnership’s importance to the
prosperity of our two countries and the broader region.    
  
     This pandemic has had a profound impact on economies and a profound
impact on families and workers, and has exposed what many knew before
but had been highlighted through the pandemic, which is the
vulnerability of our supply chains.    
  
     In America, we all remember the early days of the pandemic when
folks couldn’t figure out where they could get a mask, where they could
get PPEs, and that was because of the shortage of basic goods around the
globe.  
  
     Supply chains, without any question, are critical to ensuring that
businesses can source the materials they need and get products to market
and enable people to buy these products.    
  
For example, semiconductor chips — they power everything from
smartphones to laptops to cars.  And if we’re not producing enough
semiconductors as a world, as a globe, our automobile factories in the
United States will be impacted as they’ve been.  And it will impact then
families and consumers.  You just ask anybody who’s thinking about
trying to buy a new car or a used car, and it is more difficult than it
has been in a long time because, of course, supply chain issues impact
production lines and impact goods getting to market.   
  
So, working together with partners like Singapore on strengthening
supply chains is critical in not only getting goods to the folks who
need them but keeping Americans working and on the job, and ensuring
Americans can provide for their families.   
  
So that is why tomorrow I will be meeting with key business leaders here
in Singapore to discuss what more we can do together in this region of
the world, with private and public sectors, including our own in the
United States, to shore up supply lines and supply chains.  And that is
why the Prime Minister and I agreed to launch a dialogue on how our two
countries can better work together to strengthen supply chain resiliency
in this region.  
  
Third, on the issue of security — a longstanding source and reason for
the priority that our two countries have placed in our partnership — I
reaffirmed in our meeting the United States’ commitment to working with
our allies and partners around the Indo-Pacific to uphold the
rules-based international order and freedom of navigation, including in
the South China Sea.   
  
Later today, as the Prime Minister mentioned, I will visit the United
States naval ship docked in Changi Naval Base — a clear symbol of the
strong security cooperation between our two countries and a symbol of
America’s commitment to regional security.   
  
The Prime Minister and I also agreed that the United States and
Singapore must expand cybersecurity cooperation to address growing
threats and to protect our countries from cyberattacks — for example, on
financial institutions and on our defense establishments.  
  
Turning to the issue of values, the United States is deeply committed to
advancing respect for human rights at home and abroad.  In our meeting
today, the Prime Minister and I discussed the crisis in Burma and the
role the international community must play in helping the people of
Burma restore democracy to their country.  
  
And lastly, during our meeting, we spoke about the need to coordinate
our efforts to address climate and the climate crisis.  I no longer call
it “climate change,” Prime Minister — a climate “crisis,” as evidenced
by the U.N. report that recently came out.  
  
As two of the world’s leaders in the financial sector, the United States
and Singapore can work together on sustainable finance in this regard.
 And that is why, today, our countries are launching a new climate
partnership to create standards for sustainable financing, to address
financial sector climate risk, and to mobilize private capital for
climate mitigation and adaptation.    
  
So those are just some of the areas we touched upon today, reflective of
the breadth and the depth of the partnership between the United States
and Singapore.   
  
And as I said at the beginning of my remarks, our administration is
committed to enduring engagement in Singapore and to Southeast Asia and
the Indo-Pacific.   
  
And I look forward, Prime Minister, for continuing and strengthening our
relationship for years to come.  And thank you again.   
  
PRIME MINISTER LEE:  Thank you.  
  
MS. CHANG:  Thank you, Madam Vice President.  We will now proceed to the
Q&A.  May I first invite the Singapore journalist, Ms. Dawn Tan, from
national broadcast MediaCorp?  
  
Dawn, please.  
  
Q    Dawn Tan, CNA MediaCorp.  Good afternoon, Prime Minister and Madam
Vice President.  And may I, on behalf of all Singaporeans, also welcome
you to our home here in Singapore.   
  
Thank you, Prime Minister, as well, for that update on Singapore-U.S.
bilateral relations and for the constructive role that the United States
continues to play in this region.   
  
Permit me to begin by asking both of you a question.  Prime Minister, as
we speak, a complex operation continues in Afghanistan, as the U.S.
stands by its commitments there.  How will Singapore, as an important
bilateral partner, work with the United States as it completes its
mission in Afghanistan?   
  
And, Madam Vice President, what’s your message to America’s partners
about U.S. commitment to its longtime allies in light of this issue?  
  
PRIME MINISTER LEE:  I’ll go first.  
  
Well, countries all over the region, and I’m sure all over the world,
are watching developments in Afghanistan very closely. Foremost in
everybody’s minds is the safety and security of the civilians, and I
hope all sides will work to ensure this.   
  
Singapore is not unfamiliar with the challenges.  The SAF, the Singapore
Armed Forces, deployed personnel to Afghanistan in support of ISAF,
International Security Assistance Force.   
  
We also sent Provincial Reconstruction Teams to support the Afghan
people in their reconstruction of the country.  We did so because
Afghanistan was a key battlefront in the global fight against extremist
terrorism.  Extremist ideas and capabilities were exported from there,
all over our region, and they pose a security threat to Singapore too.
 The Jemaah Islamiyah group, for example, had direct links to al Qaeda
in Afghanistan.    
  
The Biden administration inherited an extremely difficult situation.
 The U.S. had invested considerable blood and treasure in Afghanistan.
 But it was an intractable task given the complex history, geography,
and tribal rivalries of the place.   
  
Successive U.S. presidents have declared their resolve to withdraw from
Afghanistan.  So I told the Vice President that we understand President
Biden’s reasons for his decision.  The U.S. intervention has stopped
terrorist groups from using Afghanistan as a safe base for 20 years.
 For this, Singapore is grateful.   
  
We hope Afghanistan does not become an epicenter for terrorism again.
 And post Afghanistan, in the longer term, what matters is how the U.S.
repositions itself in the Asia Pacific, engages the broader region, and
continues the fight against terrorism, because that will determine the
perceptions of the countries of the U.S. global priorities and of its
strategic intentions.   
  
And specifically on the current withdrawal, evacuation operation: As I
mentioned just now, Singapore would be happy to offer our air force
Airbus A330 to assist in the evacuation operation.   
  
Therefore, I welcome the Vice President’s visit here, as well as her
reassurances on American intentions in the region and in the world.  
  
VICE PRESIDENT HARRIS:  Thank you, Prime Minister.  And that is exactly
the point.  The reason I’m here is because the United States is a global
leader, and we take that role seriously, understanding that we have many
interests and priorities around the world.   
  
I am here in Singapore as a reaffirmation of our commitment to our
membership in the Indo-Pacific region, our partnership — longstanding
partnerships with Southeast Asia, and a longstanding relationship with
Singapore as it relates to our issues and our mutual issues on security
and economic strength and development and now, increasingly, global
health.   
  
     So, this visit, combined with the agreements we have made and the
work we continue to do as a nation to reinforce our commitment to these
relationships, speak, I believe, volumes in terms of the integrity of
the relationships that the United States has around the world on many
issues based on our shared priorities and our shared vision of not only
the challenges we face, but the future and the potential based on the
opportunities that this moment also presents.    
  
MS. CHANG:  Thank you, Madam Vice President.    
  
VICE PRESIDENT HARRIS:  Thank you.  
  
MS. CHANG:  Over to —  
  
MS. SANDERS:  Thank you.  Our first question will come from American
journalist Nandita Bose from Reuters.    
  
Nandita.  
  
Q    Thank you, Symone.  Madam Vice President, we’re in a situation
where Afghans have been trampled, died as they rushed to flee a nation
where Americans fought for 20 years.  American citizens are still stuck
without safe passage.  I understand that you agree with the decision to
withdraw.  But in your assessment, what went wrong with the withdrawal?
   
  
And I have a question for the Prime Minister as well.  We understand you
have offered help with the evacuation, sir.  But does the fall of
Afghanistan, 20 years after the U.S. started military operations there
to drive out the Taliban — does that change your calculus and on how you
can rely on America as a partner in this region, both militarily and
economically?  Does that impact the credibility of America’s foreign
policy promises?  
  
VICE PRESIDENT HARRIS:  So, I understand and appreciate why you asked
the question.  And I think there’s going to be plenty of time to analyze
what has happened and what has taken place in the context of the
withdrawal from Afghanistan.    
  
But right now, we are singularly focused on evacuating American
citizens, Afghans who worked with us, and Afghans who are vulnerable,
including women and children.  And that is our singular focus at this
time, understanding that we have a priority in making sure that the
people that, in particular, helped America achieve its responsibilities,
in terms of our priorities and the reason we went to Afghanistan in the
first place, that we have a responsibility and we feel a deep commitment
to making sure that folks who helped us are safe.    
  
But there’s no question that what many of us have seen on television, as
the President has said — I mean, the President has, I think, shown great
emotion in expressing sadness about some of the images we have seen.
 But we cannot be in any way — distracted in any way from what must be
our primary mission right now, which is evacuating people from that
region who deserve to be evacuated.   
  
PRIME MINISTER LEE:  I think I already addressed the point you raised in
my earlier remarks, because we are watching what’s happening in
Afghanistan on the TV screens today.  But what will influence
perceptions of U.S. resolve and commitment to the region will be what
the U.S. does going forward: how it repositions itself in the region,
how it engages its broad range of friends and partners and allies in the
region, and how it continues the fight against terrorism.   
  
Countries make calculations and take positions, and they have to make
calc- — recalculations and adjust their positions from time to time.
 Sometimes it can be done smoothly; sometimes there are hiccups.
 Sometimes there’s — things go awry and take time to put right.    
  
But countries remain with long-term interests, with long-term partners —
and is the mark of a country which can succeed — that it takes these
interests and partners seriously and in a dispassionate way, and
maintains them over the long term.    
  
And the U.S. has been in the region since the war — 19- — which is more
than 70 years ago.  There have been ups and downs.  There have been
difficult moments.  There have also been, over decades, dramatic
transformations in Asia, wrought by the benign and constructive
influence of the United States as a regional guarantor of security, and
support of prosperity.  
  
And Singapore hopes and works on the basis that the U.S. will continue
to play that role and continue to engage the region for many more years
to come.  
  
MS. SANDERS:  Thank you, Nandita.  The U.S. delegation’s next question
will come from American journalist Zolan Kanno-Youngs of the New York
Times.  
  
Zolan.  
  
Q    Yes, thank you so much for taking my question here.  Madam Vice
President, a quick follow-up to my colleague’s question.  I understand
what the focus is now, but given that the reality is that there are
thousands of allies, as well as American citizens that are still stuck
in limbo, are you satisfied with the operational steps that were taken
in this decision?  Not the decision itself, but the operational steps
that were taken.  Does it meet your standard?  
  
Secondly, China is already trying to use the situation in Afghanistan to
drive a wedge between the U.S. and its allies, telling those in the
South China Sea region that the U.S. cannot be counted on as a reliable
long-term partner.  Are you at all concerned the damage has already been
done to U.S. credibility worldwide?  And how does the U.S., and
specifically the administration, repair it?    
  
And then, for Prime Minister Lee, your country’s travel restrictions are
a major strain on American businesses, businesses worldwide.  Since
Singapore has said that it wants to expand quarantine-free travel, what
are the specific conditions it would take to get a quarantine-free
arrangement in the U.S. and high-vaccination countries like it?  Thank
you.   
  
VICE PRESIDENT HARRIS:  So I’ll repeat what I said, which is that
there’s no question there will be and should be a robust analysis of
what has happened.  But right now, there is no question that our focus
has to be on evacuating American citizens, Afghans who worked with us,
and vulnerable Afghans, including women and children.  That has to be
our primary focus and where we are placing our attention on the issue of
Afghanistan.    
  
And to that end, we have seen a successful drawdown of the embassy and,
thankfully, without any American casualties.  We have seen thousands of
people who have been — who have been evacuated from the airport in
Afghanistan, where the United States military — doing very hard and
difficult work — were able to contain that airport so that we could
successfully evacuate the people who have been evacuated so far.    
  
So as the President has said: Listen, this is a difficult mission.
 There’s no question about that.  But our focus has to be on the task at
hand.  
  
As it relates to America’s relationship around the world, I’m standing
here in Singapore because of our commitment to a longstanding
relationship, which is an enduring relationship with the Indo-Pacific
region, with Southeast Asian countries, and, in particular, with
Singapore.    
  
The agreements that the Prime Minister and I have reached today are
evidence of that enduring relationship and commitment, and founded on
the longstanding priorities that relate to our security interests and
our economic issues, but also a commitment going forward, as it relates
to the challenges that we faced in the 21st century and the challenges
we are going to face moving forward, such as in the inevitable, which is
future pandemics and what we will do together to research and to do what
we can to stop those pandemics from wreaking the kind of havoc on the
world that COVID has; a commitment, moving forward, to work together on
the issue of cybersecurity; to work together on the issue of the climate
crisis.    
  
All of these agreements are evidence of America’s strength and enduring
relationships around the globe and, in particular, our knowledge that as
we move forward and think about where we go in the 21st century,
Southeast Asia and the Indo-Pacific will, in large part, I believe,
dictate the future of our world.  And America’s commitment then and
partnerships with the country in this region — and the countries in this
region are about where we are going and also founded on the
relationships that we have had in this region.   
  
PRIME MINISTER LEE:  Okay, on vaccines — this is something which I also
discussed with the Vice President: As countries get more vaccinated, as
protocols are worked out, as we get COVID infections under control it’s
easier for us to open up.  We have been very tight on our borders for
some time because it was necessary and we had to get our situation in
Singapore secured through vaccinations and through infections control.
   
  
I think we are getting there, but we are nowhere near herd immunity.
 And we are now able to contemplate vaccinated, safe, quarantine-free
travel with conditions and tests and procedures with countries.  And we
are starting with two countries, Germany and Brunei.    
  
And we are talking about other countries as well, and it will depend on
the vaccination progress in those countries.  It will depend on the
prevalence of COVID in those countries, the state of the pandemic.  And
it depends what we can work out between us so that you have confidence
in pre-departure testing, pre-departure vaccination certificates, and
then procedures upon arrival to be tested and, if necessary, to be
quarantined, if infected.   
  
It’s something which we have strongly in mind because it’s important for
Singapore as a hub to be able to reopen and to operate safely, and for
people to travel back and forth to do business and to keep ourselves
connected with the world.  And the U.S. is one of the countries which we
will be pursuing these conversations with.  
  
MS. SANDERS:  Thank you, Zolan.  
  
MS. CHANG:  Thank you.  Now the last question from Singapore journalist,
Ms. Linette Lai, from the Singapore Press Holdings.    
  
Q    Hi, thank you very much.  I’d like to bring the discussion back to
the region and ask PM Lee and Vice President Harris how the U.S. can
work with Singapore and other partners to contribute to the broader
stability and security of the region, and also to strengthen
people-to-people ties.  Thank you.  
  
PRIME MINISTER LEE:  Well, I think the economic cooperation is an
important part of that, because that gives substance to the rest of the
cooperation.   
  
And I listed out some of the areas which we are embarking on further
projects with the U.S., arising from the Vice President’s visit.  
  
On the security cooperation, that’s also very close.  It ranges all the
way from defense cooperation, to intelligence exchange, to
counterterrorism activities, to cybersecurity.  And there, too, we have
an agenda.   
  
And thirdly, on people-to-people ties, travel is one big part of it.
 Studying students — studying is a big part of it.  We have very many
students from Singapore — and, in fact, from all over the region — who
study in the U.S.  I spent a couple of years in the U.S. myself, and you
never forget the experience and the friends which you have made.   
  
And these are things which ought to continue — Afghanistan or not, COVID
or not.  And I’m quite confident that they will continue and they will
grow, and we will be able to deepen the ties across the Pacific for many
more years to come.   
  
VICE PRESIDENT HARRIS:  The Prime Minister has said it well, which is
this is a relationship that is based on a shared vision, both in terms
of the challenges we face but also the opportunities that we face to
work together to meet those challenges.  And it relates again to the
historic relationship that we have on the issue of security and economic
strength.    
  
But it is also about what we can do to work together to discover the
medicines that might attack and deal with the next virus.  It is about
the future in terms of our mutual commitment, curiosity, and interest
and what we can do in space.  It is about what we have, in terms of
shared values, for the need for universal norms on the issue of
cybersecurity.  It is about the interest that we have in being a global
partner on the issue of vaccines, for example, and our shared commitment
— understanding that when we have the resources, that we will share them
with the world.    
  
These are the things that Singapore and the United States have in
common.  And with that common purpose and with a similar approach to our
responsibility for our own citizens and our responsibility as a global
citizen, I believe that with this commitment — as evidenced again by
this visit today — we will continue to partner in a way that benefits
not only Singaporeans and Americans, but the rest of the world.    
  
MS. CHANG:  Thank you, Madam Vice President.  And with that, I bring the
joint press conference now to a close.  Thank you, journalists, for
joining us, and everyone online.  Thank you.    
  
2:14 P.M. SST
