---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-08-25'
modified_time: 2021-09-07 15:20:26-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/08/25/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-an-embassy-lease-signing-event-in-hanoi-vietnam/
published_time: 2021-08-25 21:52:00-04:00
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at an Embassy Lease Signing Event in Hanoi,\_\
  Vietnam"
---
 
JW Marriott Hanoi  
Hanoi, Vietnam

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Well, I would like to say that, on behalf of
the United States, we are very excited about this symbol of our enduring
relationship with Vietnam.   
  
     And for anyone who may not be aware of the small print, it’s a
99-year lease.  (Laughter and applause.)  And we — we have visions and —
and a dream, which is going to be achieved when we build this structure,
of it being a home and a facility where many important things will
happen, where Vietnamese students will go to apply for visas to continue
in the longstanding tradition of Vietnamese students seeking an
education in the United States.   
  
     Within those walls, we expect that there will be many very
important meetings that range from the agreements and the work we will
do together on trade, to the work that we will do together dealing with
new technologies and thinking of new areas of focus and cooperation.   
  
     So, we are very excited about this as a symbol of the ongoing
relationship — the working relationship between the United States and
Vietnam.  And we thank everyone and, in particular, the leaders in
Vietnam for being so welcoming, and for the agreement for our continued
cooperation and partnership.  
  
     Thank you.  (Applause.)  
  
     Q    Madam Vice President, what is your message to embassy staff on
the Havana Syndrome attacks?  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Here’s my message — here’s my message to
embassy staff: Thank you.  The people who work in our embassies around
the world are extraordinary public servants who represents the best of
what the United States believes itself to be and aspires to be, which is
a good neighbor to our partners and allies around the globe.   
  
     And in particular, in this last year and a half, our staff at our
embassies around the world have done their work at great personal
sacrifice because of COVID — because of the confinements, the
restrictions that has placed on their natural desire and ability to be
present, to be in the communities, to engage in the best of what
diplomacy can produce.   
  
     So, to our embassy staff, to our Chargé d’Affaires, I thank you, on
behalf of the President and myself, for doing the work on the ground
every day in representing the best of the United States in our
commitment to our partnerships around the globe and here in Vietnam.   
  
     Thank you.
