---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-08-24'
modified_time: 2021-08-24 07:48:46-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/08/24/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-on-the-indo-pacific-region/
published_time: 2021-08-24 07:48:39-04:00
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris on the Indo-Pacific\_Region"
---
 
Gardens by the Bay  
Singapore, Singapore

10:44 A.M. SST

  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Good morning to everyone.  It is a joy and an honor
to be with you today and to be here in Singapore.  
  
And, Ambassador, you mentioned it — you ended your comments with this,
and I will begin my comments.  I’m speaking about Afghanistan, because I
am fully aware that, as I stand here today, the eyes of many around the
world are on Afghanistan.  So before I begin my comments, I will talk
about that.    
  
You all know we were at war in Afghanistan for 20 long years.  Many
members of our military gave their lives in Afghanistan, as did many
from our allies and partners.  
  
Months ago, President Joe Biden made the courageous and right decision
to end this war because we had achieved what we went there to do.   
  
Over these past weeks, the United States has been focused on safely
evacuating American citizens, international partners, Afghans who worked
side by side with us, and other Afghans at risk.   
  
We are laser-focused on the task at hand.  And we are extremely grateful
to our men and women in uniform and to embassy staff who are on the
ground, as we speak, making this historic airlift happen in an
incredibly difficult and dangerous environment.  
  
And we are grateful to our international partners for standing with us
and working with us to meet this challenge, including Singapore.   
  
At the same time, it is also imperative that as we address developments
in one region, we continue to advance our interests in other regions,
including this region.  
  
And that brings me to why I am here today in Singapore.  As I have said
many times over these past many months, the fact is that I believe our
world is embarking on a new era — an era with new challenges, like
cybersecurity, and an era with new opportunities, like clean energy.   
  
The fact is, our world is more interconnected and interdependent.  And
in order, then, to embrace this new era, nations must be willing to take
on challenges together and create opportunities together.   
  
That is why our partnerships in Singapore, in Southeast Asia, and
throughout the Indo-Pacific are a top priority for the United States.   
  
The United States is a proud part of the Indo-Pacific.  And this region
is critically important to our nation’s security and prosperity.  
  
Just consider: Some of our closest allies and strongest partners are
here.  Our exports to the region support 4 million American jobs.  And
in 2019, the United States conducted nearly $2 trillion of two-way trade
here.  All of which underscores America’s connection to the
Indo-Pacific.   
  
In this region, we have long put forward a vision of peace and
stability, freedom on the seas, unimpeded commerce, advancing human
rights, a commitment to the international rules-based order, and the
recognition that our common interests are not zero-sum.   
  
Now, as we face threats to that order, I am here to reaffirm our
commitment to that vision — to strengthen it and to make sure it
addresses the challenges of today and of tomorrow.   
  
To do that, we will invest our time and our energy to fortify our key
partnerships, including with Singapore and Vietnam.  Our partnerships
will be grounded in candor, openness, inclusiveness, shared interests,
and mutual benefits.   
  
The United States will pursue a free and open Indo-Pacific that promotes
our interests and those of our partners and allies.   
  
In addition to deepening close bilateral relations, we will also work
multilaterally, through longstanding institutions, like ASEAN, which
remains central to the region’s architecture.   
  
We will also work with new, results-oriented groups, like the Quad and
the U.S.-Mekong Partnership.   
  
And we will always be true to our values and support those who seek a
better future for all people.  
  
I believe that when the history of the 21st century is written, much of
it will be centered right here in the Indo-Pacific.   
  
Our intention is to strengthen our partnerships and reinforce our shared
vision so that the United States, with our partners, can together
continue shaping that history.   
  
In doing so, there should be no doubt: We have enduring interests in
this region, and we have enduring commitments as well.  Those
commitments include, of course, security.     
  
Yesterday, I visited Changi Naval Base.  The U.S. Navy ship, the USS
Tulsa, is docked there right now — a symbol of the deep and enduring
security partnership between our nations; a statement of America’s
security commitment to this region.  
  
Our vision includes freedom of navigation, which is vital to us all.
 The livelihood of millions of people depend on the billions of dollars
in trade that flow through these sea lanes each day.    
  
And yet, in the South China Sea, we know that Beijing continues to
coerce, to intimidate, and to make claims to the vast majority of the
South China Sea.  These unlawful claims have been rejected by the 2016
arbitral tribunal decision.  And Beijing’s actions continue to undermine
the rules-based order and threaten the sovereignty of nations.  
  
The United States stands with our allies and partners in the face of
these threats.  And I must be clear: Our engagement in Southeast Asia
and the Indo-Pacific is not against any one country, nor is it designed
to make anyone choose between countries.  Instead, our engagement is
about advancing an optimistic vision that we have for our participation
and partnership in this region.  And our economic vision is a critical
part of that.  
  
The economy of the United States is growing faster than it has in nearly
40 years.  Wages are up.  Employment is up.  Consumer demand is up.  And
we believe that our growth should not stop at the water’s edge; that it
can also, and it will also, benefit our partners.  
  
Our economy shares so much with Southeast Asia — from supply chains to a
steady flow of two-way trade.  Collectively, the nations of Southeast
Asia represent our nation’s fourth-largest export market — a vibrant and
dynamic market which will soon rank among the biggest markets in the
world.  
  
Our trade relationships in Southeast Asia support more than 600,000
American jobs.  And now, with an eye toward the future, we are
strengthening our economic engagement.  
  
In fact, today, I am proud to announce that the United States is
offering to host APEC in 2023.  Through APEC, or the Asian-Pacific
Economic Cooperation Forum, the United States has long worked with our
partners in Asia and Latin America to build an interconnected region
that advances our collective economic prosperity.    
  
A vital part of our agenda is also related to addressing the climate
crisis.  Our vision includes investing in a clean energy future and
building resilient communities.   
  
And the relationship between the United States and Singapore, and its
climate partnership that we announced yesterday, will focus on
sustainable finance as just one example of the work we are committed to
doing together.  
  
The nations of Southeast Asia know the impact of the climate crisis all
too well: the rising sea levels, the typhoons, the floods.  These
disasters have cost human life and livelihoods.  And the crisis of kno-
— as we know — the crisis, of course, is getting much more urgent.  I’m
sure many of you read and saw the report recently from the United
Nations.   
  
And in our interconnected world, this issue affects us all,   
and it requires a collective vision, and it requires collective
action.  
  
And, then of course, there’s another issue that truly knows no borders:
the pandemic.  When President Joe Biden and I took office, we were
determined not only to vaccinate our own nation, but to be an arsenal of
safe and effective vaccines for our entire world.  
  
To date, of the 110 million doses we have shipped worldwide, we have
delivered more than 23 million of those to Southeast Asia.  And it is
important to note that these are donations, free of charge, with no
strings attached — because, for us, this is about saving lives and
because, of course, that is the right thing to do.  
  
Looking forward, our vision is a world where global health security is
strengthened and where we can detect and attack new viruses early on.
 And we are taking steps to make that future a reality.   
  
In the same vein, I’d like to reiterate that we will continue to lead
with our values.  And that means respecting human rights at home and
abroad.   
  
And to that end, I must say a word about Burma.  The United States
remains deeply alarmed by the military coup in Burma.  We condemn the
campaign of violent repression.  And we are committed to supporting the
people there as they work to return their nation to the path of
democracy.  And we do hope that nations throughout the Indo-Pacific will
join us in that effort.   
  
Years from now, I hope we can all look back on this moment and say this
— this — was when our region joined together to realize a better future;
when we took action to improve the lives of all people.  
  
Years from now, I hope that we will be able to point to our partnerships
between the United States and Singapore, between the United States and
Southeast Asia, and throughout the Indo-Pacific, as the partnerships
that made this shared vision of the future possible.   
  
Thank you all.  Thank you.  (Applause.)  
  
10:59 A.M. SST 
