---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-08-03'
modified_time: 2021-08-03 17:24:58-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/08/03/remarks-by-president-biden-at-a-meeting-with-latino-community-leaders-to-discuss-his-economic-agenda-immigration-reform-and-the-need-to-protect-the-sacred-constitutional-right-to-vote/
published_time: 2021-08-03 17:24:57-04:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at a Meeting with Latino Community Leaders to\
  \ Discuss His Economic Agenda, Immigration Reform, and the Need to Protect the Sacred,\
  \ Constitutional Right to\_Vote"
---
 
State Dining Room

1:42 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT: Okay. Well, everybody, welcome. Today, I have the
privilege of meeting with Latino leaders to discuss a bunch of key
issues that affect the community; the progress we’re making against the
pandemic; historic and economic recovery we’re under- — that’s
undergoing — we’re undergoing; and immigration and voting rights, which
are critical.

Latino leaders have been essential to helping us get the country
vaccinated, with 70 percent of all adult Americans receiving at least
one shot.

The vaccines work. Even as cases go up due to the highly
transmissionable \[sic\] — transmissible disease, the Delta variant,
we’re not seeing a comparable rise in hospitalizations or deaths in most
of the country because of the vaccinations. This is an epidemic of the
unvaccinated — a pandemic of the unvaccinated.

But we need everyone to get vaccinated in this pandemic. And it’s
critical to keeping the economy strong.

And in six months, we’re seeing the fastest job growth of any point in
any administration in history from the beginning of their
administration, and the fastest economic growth in nearly 40 years.

And we have an opportunity to make historic investments in
infrastructure and in American families, and finally build an economy
that deals everybody in.

I’ve been saying from the beginning when I announced that I’m tired of
trickle down. It doesn’t work very well. But when you build from the
bottom up and the middle out, everybody does well, including the
wealthy. That’s what this is all about.

And so, creating millions of good-paying jobs in every community and —
including Latino neighborhoods — delivering affordable child and — care
and paid leave and universal pre-K, two years of community college.

You know, today marks, as we all know — no one knows this better than
this community – a two-year — two years of — since the shooting in El
Paso. And all of us have, in our personal lives, lost people
unexpectedly. Most of us have. We know how devastating it is,
particularly one that was born out of such hatred.

But you know, I did a piece — Jill and I did a piece for the El Paso
Times, but I realized after it was published that I didn’t talk about an
aspect that is really important: There were 236 people who were wounded.
How are they doing? The trauma. The equivalent of post-traumatic stress
that comes from these kinds of things. I — and the need for — and I hope
we’ll — we can talk about it a little bit later as well — is the need
for mental health services and a whole range of things that affect not
only them but their families when they’ve survived.

But to the families who have lost loved ones, and I mean this from the
bottom of my heart, Jill and send our love — as all of you do, I know.

But I know, you know, these anniversaries are — should be celebrated in
a sense of recognize — so we see things don’t happen again. But, you
know, they’re terrible for the victims and the survivors because it
brings back everything like it happened the very moment ago. And I — it
takes enormous courage for people to — to respond that way.

You know, and I know how hard these anniversaries are. As I said, no
matter how much time has passed, it brings it all back like it happened
that second.

The El Paso community — you know, they continue to show their courage
and the resilience. But to all Americans, this tragedy reminds us of the
unfinished work to heal — and I know I got criticized for running on it,
but I really mean it — heal the soul of this country. We have to return
to some decency and honor, and I just — anyway.

The gunman targeted people and the diversity of El Paso and our most
deeply held American values. And, you know, we all act together to
counter what is basically domestic terrorism, domestic violence,
domestic extremism, and end the scourge of gun violence in America. We
can’t end it, but we sure can make a big difference than what it is now.
And so, I continue to do everything in my power to do that.

The most lethal terrorist threat to our homeland in recent years is
domestic terrorism — domestic terrorism rooted in white supremacy. We’re
going to have to stand united against this violence because it just
spills over to all communities.

And my administration is carrying out the country’s first-ever
comprehensive effort to tackle the threat of domestic terrorism — from
reducing online radicalization to disrupting networks that inspire
violence, and providing resources to communities to build up some
resilience.

And I’m going to continue to fight this for more commonsense gun laws.
And we’re going to continue to call on Congress to take action, which
they’ve been reluctant to do.

That includes a ban on assault weapons and high-capacity magazines like
the one used in El Paso. The idea anybody needs, for a pistol and/or a
rifle — anyone needs 10, 12, 20, 30, 100 rounds in a rifle is just — it
just makes no sense at all. Zero. Doesn’t violate anybody’s Second
Amendment rights to say, “You can’t do that.” But it just has to stop.

And that includes using my existing authority, which I have, to — from
reining in “ghost guns” and — to investing in community policing and
community violence intervention, to having — bringing in psychologists
and social workers into the police forces to help.

And, you know, I look forward to hearing from this group about all of
these issues and a lot more. And — but, with that, we’re going to
discuss a wide range of issues, all of us here tonight — today. And I’m
looking forward to it.

So, thank you all. Thank you, press, for being here.

Q Mr. President, should Andrew Cuomo resign, sir? Should Andrew Cuomo
resign?

THE PRESIDENT: Whoa, whoa, whoa. Whoa, whoa, whoa.

Q Should Andrew Cuomo resign, sir?

THE PRESIDENT: Wait — wait a second. Be quiet, please.

I’m going to be speaking on COVID at four o’clock this afternoon, and
I’ll take questions on COVID and other issues after that.

Thank you.

Q Thank you, sir.

1:49 P.M. EDT
