---
category: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-08-12'
modified_time: 2021-09-07 13:03:12-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/08/12/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-before-meeting-with-businesses-to-discuss-the-importance-of-care-policies/
published_time: 2021-08-12 16:57:00-04:00
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris Before Meeting with Businesses to Discuss\
  \ the Importance of Care\_Policies"
---
 
Vice President’s Ceremonial Office

2:38 P.M. EDT  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  I want to, on behalf of our administration and
the President, thank these incredible leaders who are national leaders
and international leaders in business and in civic affairs.   
  
I want to thank you all for joining us this afternoon for this very
important conversation, which is about childcare and what it means in
terms of the benefit to our economy, the benefit to our families, the
benefit to the strength of our nation, and our ability to role model to
the world what it means to be an economy that is strong, that pays
attention to many issues, including the issues of families, and the
strength and wellbeing and health of families.  
  
So, the conversation that we plan to have today is also after the Senate
Democrats approved a budget resolution to proceed on what we call our
Build Back Better plan.  And a big part of that plan really is about
what we can do, from a policy perspective, that will benefit the
infrastructure of households, the infrastructure of families, and, in
that way, strengthen our ability to be a society that is productive, but
also addresses what have been some of the longstanding, frankly,
fissures and failures of our system.  
  
The pandemic in many ways highlighted some of those, including the need
for all people to — who are families, who have children, to have
affordable childcare.  I know that — that some of the business leaders
here will also talk about how the work that you have done that has been
modeling the priority around childcare benefits workers with children
and those that don’t have children, and benefits all society regardless
of whether a family or an individual has a child.  
  
Affordable childcare, we know, relates to both a business’s ability to
recruit talent and retain talent.  We know that it directly impacts
worker productivity and, in a way, the bottom line of your businesses.  
  
We know that it, when we prioritize it as a nation, contributes to our
ability to be competitive globally in terms of what we know is still an
ongoing challenge for our nation, which is to keep up with what is
happening around the world.   
  
And I will say that this, of course, follows on the heels of the work we
did around the American Rescue Plan, which expanded the Child and
Dependent Care Tax Credit — we call it the “Child Tax Credit” — which is
going to lift half of America’s children out of poverty.   
  
It expands on the work that we have done, which is a $39 billion
investment in childcare for families and providers.  And a lot of our
work also has been designed to help not only families with children, but
those who are responsible for the caregiving of seniors and people with
disabilities.   
  
So that’s the discussion we’re going to have today.  Again, I want to
thank you all for your leadership, for your commitment, and for the
partnership that we have.  And for the folks who are here virtually, I
thank you as well.   
  
So I look forward to our conversation and — and with that, again, I
thank you.  Okay.  Thank you all.  
  
Q    Madam Vice President, is Afghanistan lost to the Taliban?  Is
Afghanistan lost to the Taliban?  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  I am going to leave here to continue the briefings
that we’ve been receiving, and we’ll keep you posted.  
  
2:42 P.M. EDT
