---
category: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-08-28'
modified_time: 2021-08-28 19:37:02-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/08/28/remarks-by-president-biden-before-virtual-fema-briefing-on-preparations-for-hurricane-ida/
published_time: 2021-08-28 19:45:00-04:00
title: Remarks by President Biden Before Virtual FEMA Briefing on Preparations for
  Hurricane Ida
---
 
South Court Auditorium  
Eisenhower Executive Office Building

1:44 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT:  Hello, everybody.  Can you all hear me?

ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL:  We can, Mr. President.

THE PRESIDENT:  Well —

ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL:  Can you hear me?

THE PRESIDENT:  I can hear you clearly.

Let me begin by thanking you all, every one of you, for the incredible
work you’re doing.  You know, and I want to thank you for joining me on
this call today.  And I know so many of you have been working flat out,
nights and weekends, for a long time now.

Hurricane Ida is coming fast on the heels of a tragic flooding in
Tennessee, Tropical Storm Henri, and you’ve all been part of the
COVID-19 response for so many months now.  You’ve been overwhelmed, but
you don’t show it.  You’ve been incredible.  Thank you.

You know, Ida is turning into a very, very dangerous storm; I need not
tell you.  I just got another briefing from the Hurricane Center and, as
you know, it’s now heading straight for — right toward Louisiana.

This weekend is the anniversary of Hurricane Katrina.  And it’s a stark
reminder that we have to do everything we can to prepare the people in
the region and make sure we’re ready to respond.

Administrator Griswell \[sic\] — Criswell, you and I have spoken
extensively about this.  We were together yesterday and we spoke to the
governors of Louisiana, of Alabama, and Mississippi to ask what they
need from us before the storm arrived.

And I’ve already signed an emergency declaration for Louisiana to make
sure we’re ready for the surge response capa- — capability to deal with
whatever comes our — their way — our way, but it’s — it’s their way.

You know, we’ve deployed 500 FEMA emergency response personnel in Texas
and Louisiana, in addition to 2,000 FEMA personnel already supporting
our COVID response in the region.  And we’ve pre-positioned food, water,
generators, and other supplies in the area.  Power restoration and
mobile communication support teams are also en route.

We’ve also closely coordinated with the electric utilities to restore
power as soon as possible and to support your response and recovery
efforts.

And above all, I’m urging the people of the area to pay attention and be
prepared.  I want to say it again: Pay attention and be prepared.

Have supplies for your household on hand.  Follow the guidance from
local authorities.  And if you have to move to shelter, make sure you
wear a mask and try to keep some distance because we’re still facing the
highly contagious Delta variant as well.

Administration Criswell — Administrator Criswell, you’re, you know — I’m
going to turn this over to you in a moment here to give an update on the
latest steps we’re taking.  And I want you to know what more can — I
need to know everything you think we need to be able to do.  If you
haven’t gotten the authority for it, tell me now.  We’ll get it done. 
It’s like — most importantly, I just want to say to all of you: Thank
you, thank you, thank you. 

Everything you’re doing to prepare for this dangerous storm is — is
going to mitigate the impact of potential nas- — natural disasters,
results that are going to be visited on so many people in the region. 
The work you’re doing is vital, and you all know it.

So, Administrator Criswell, let’s you and I have a conversation.  Tell
me what you need and what’s going on.

1:48 P.M. EDT
