---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-08-12'
modified_time: 2021-08-12 13:04:16-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/08/12/remarks-by-president-biden-at-virtual-meeting-with-elected-officials-to-discuss-the-importance-of-the-infrastructure-investment-and-jobs-act/
published_time: 2021-08-12 13:04:14-04:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at Virtual Meeting with Elected Officials to Discuss\
  \ the Importance of the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs\_Act"
---
 
Via Teleconference  
South Court Auditorium

(August 11, 2021)

3:13 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT:  Hello, folks.  Sorry I’m a few minutes late.  It’s good
to see you all.  Gretchen, how are you? 

I understand we have another 95,000 people on this Zoom, but apparently
there’s a large number of folks on.

I’m going to begin by thanking you all — all those of you I can’t see as
well — for signing on to help pass the infrastructure bill.  It mattered
a lot.  It’s the first big bipartisan thing we’ve done in a long while,
and I think it’s long overdue.  And it is great to see you all. 

Yesterday, the Senate passed the bipartisan infrastructure bill, in no
small part because of all of you, in a significant milestone in the road
toward making what we all know are long-overdue and much-needed
investments.

As Gretchen, when she ran, said, “Just fix the roads, damn it.”  Right? 
Well, we’re going to do more than that this time around. 

I want to thank you for the work and for all of you — and my
administration, with the members of Congress, with the media — to
highlight the need to make these investments in our nation’s
infrastructure.

As mayors, governors, Tribal and county leaders, state and local
officials at every level, you know that there’s no such thing as a
Democratic road or a Republican bridge.  But you do know what’s not
working, and you know what it means to be accountable to the people you
serve and to focus on solving real problems people are facing in your
communities. 

But you also know that often states and cities and counties can’t do it
alone.  They need the federal government to be a partner, solving
problems.  And being a partner is what we’re supposed to be doing. 

That’s the approach we’ve been taking with this bipartisan
infrastructure bill.  It’s going to create literally millions of jobs —
good-paying jobs, putting America on a path to win the 21st century
global economy.  And we’re in a competition with many other nations. 

And it makes key investments to put people to work in cities, small
towns, and rural communities.  I believe it’s a historic investment in
roads and rail, in transit and bridges, in clean energy and clean
water.  And it’s going to enable us not only to build back, but to build
back better than ever before. 

Across America, more than 45,000 bridges are structurally deficient. 
Let me say that again: 45,000 bridges in America are structurally
deficient.  One out of every five miles of highway is in disrepair.  And
this bill makes the largest investment in bridges since the creation of
the Interstate Highway System. 

You know, 10 million households, and 400,000 schools, daycare centers —
they lack safe drinking water.  This bill is going to allow us to
replace 100 percent of the nation’s lead pipes and service lines so
every child in America can turn on a faucet in their school or at home
and drink clean water. 

That’s what this infrastructure is all about today.  We’re going to need
to build the infrastructure for tomorrow, not just today.  We got to
build back not just — I know you’re tired of hearing me say it, but
build back better that it was before we hit this God-awful circumstance
we found ourselves in.

This bill is going to deliver high-speed Internet to every American. 
And we’ll build a national network of 500,000 electric vehicle charging
stations. 

And here is another important part of the bill: Nearly 90 percent of the
jobs created by this bill don’t require a college degree.  This is the
ultimate blue-collar blueprint to rebuild America. 

And we’re going to do it without raising taxes by one cent on anyone
making less than $400,000 a year.  That’s why we wouldn’t even support a
gas — increased gas tax.

As we did with the Transcontinental Railroad and the Interstate Highway
System, we’re going to once again transform America and propel this
nation into the future. 

Look, I believe that passing this bill will also do something else: It
will help ease the years of gridlock in Washington and show the American
people that their government can and will work for them again. 

We’re going to still have big disagreements, but it’s happening at a
critical time, because now is the moment to build our — on our
momentum. 

Folks, we’ve added more than 4 million new jobs since my first day in
office six months ago.  The unemployment rate is the lowest since the
pandemic hit.  We’re delivering a tax cut to families with children
every single month.  And those who get their health insurance through
the Affordable Care Act, we’re covering more people, and we’re able to
do it at lower premiums by up to 40 percent. 

And it’s a battle with Delta virus.  We have — we have the tools.  We
have the vaccinations.  We have — we need to vaccinate more Americans
and the tools to keep our economy growing and growing.  But we got to
get more people vaccinated.  I know you all know that well. 

We just have to act.  And that’s what I want to talk about today.  I
want to hear from you about these investments: what they’re going to
mean for your states and communities; what we could have done better, if
there’s things we could have done; and why it is so urgent. 

And so let me start with Governor Whitmer.  We all remember your
campaign slogan, Gov —

GOVERNOR WHITMER:  (Laughs.)

THE PRESIDENT:  — that — you’ve been focused on trying to fix the roads
in your state since you took office.  And what — what — what will this
federal investments in Michigan roads and bridges do and mean to your
state’s economy and job creation? 

So — and then I want to hear from the rest of you.  But I’ll go one at a
time, if that’s okay. 

GOVERNOR WHITMER:  Sounds perfect.

THE PRESIDENT:  Gretchen, fire away. 

GOVERNOR WHITMER:  All right.  Thanks, Mr. President.  I’m so glad to be
here with you.  It’s my honor to be here as the governor of the great
state of Michigan as we come together to make the largest infrastructure
investment in American history. 

And, Mr. President, you mentioned it, but I ran on fixing the damn
roads.

THE PRESIDENT:  I remember.  (Laughs.)

GOVERNOR WHITMER:  (Laughs.)  And you know, and it’s fixing the dams and
roads.  You know, don’t think I haven’t noticed that so many other
governors and Cabinet Secretaries have been stealing that tagline.  But,
of course, it’s because it is true across the nation, right? 

Anyone can use that phrase, but just make sure that the mom in Flint who
first said that to me back in 2018 gets a little bit of credit. 

You know, today, I’m especially proud to have so many partners in
Washington who share our mission to fix the damn roads. 

I want to thank you, Mr. President, and Vice President Harris for making
infrastructure a real priority.  And because of your leadership and
dedication, countless families, communities, and small businesses in
Michigan and across the country are going to benefit. 

I also want to thank all the senators who worked across the aisle to get
this done — including Michigan’s own Senator Debbie Stabenow and Senator
Gary Peters, who’ve been tireless champions for Michiganders. 

And I’m so glad to be here speaking alongside Mayor Dyer and Mayor
Lumumba, Commissioner Hausmann, and Chief Hoskin.  This diverse group
shows just how wide-ranging an impact that this bill is going to have. 

Now, the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act takes a big step toward
helping Michigan modernize and develop the infrastructure we need to
effectively connect our communities and continue our economic jumpstart.

The bold package is going to create millions of good-paying jobs; fix
our crumbling roads and bridges; help us build a clean, resilient energy
grid; bolster public transportation; deliver clean drinking water to
millions of families; and ensure every home has access to high-speed
Internet, which we know — after the last year and a half — is just truly
a foundational and fundamental need. 

This landmark bill is going to be a game changer for us here in
Michigan.  We’re estimated to receive $7.26 billion for roads and
bridges here.  That $7.26 billion we can use to restore and rebuild our
crumbling roads and bridges, saving drivers and small businesses money
and time.  That’s $7.26 billion to make commutes or the drive to school,
road trips up north, safer and smoother.

The bill will also build out a national network of electric vehicle
charging stations, helping Michigan’s iconic auto industry turbocharge
its transition to electric and continue leading the future of mobility. 

So, that F150 that you drove in Dearborn, Mr. President, or I know that
the GM truck you drove the other day, that’s how — we need to have this
infrastructure so that we can lead the world in advanced mobility.

So, this is a much-needed investment in moving us towards an electric
future, and it may be the momentum we need for bigger investments in the
future.

Our Senators Stabenow and Peters spearheaded a record  $1 billion
investment in the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative.

THE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.

GOVERNOR WHITMER:  It’ll help us clean up and restore the beautiful
freshwater lakes and preserve our picturesque peninsulas.

And finally, the package includes $10 billion to help us continue
cleaning up toxic chemicals and contaminants from our water supply.  It
includes $4 billion to help water utilities remove chemicals from their
supply or to connect well owners to local systems, and another $5
billion to help small or disadvantaged communities tackle PFAS in
drinking water.

So, I think this is the — setting the stage for future collaboration as
well — as well as this bill heads to the House and awaits final passage.

We’re going to keep working at the state level to make bold
infrastructure investments as well.  I got a $3.5 billion build —
Rebuilding Michigan road bonding plan done the year before last. 
Twenty-one state highway construction projects are underway this summer,
supporting 22,800 good-paying jobs.  And we’re investing resources to
make sure every Michigander can go about their day and get things done
without worrying if they’re going to blow a tire or crack an axle.  And
we’re doing it while creating all these jobs in the process.

So, the economic and job-creating potential of this Infrastructure and
Jobs Act is huge.  It’s a big deal, as you would say.  (Laughter.) 

With this once-in-a-generation investment, we can usher in a new era of
prosperity and build back better from this pandemic stronger than ever.

So, I’m grateful for your leadership, Mr. President.  I’m excited about
the prospect of this and what it’s going to mean for every American —
and not some, not a few, but every one of us will benefit when we get
this done. 

And I’m so glad to be with you today.

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, thank you.  And, by the way, you know, I think,
sort of breaking through this first big barrier in a bipartisan way, I
really believe — it doesn’t make everything easy, but it does have a way
— it has an effect on other things. 

I noticed that you mentioned having — I had the three presidents of the
three major American automobile companies, the UAW, and all of the — all
the auto workers in my backyard here at the White House with their
electric vehicles.  The commitment is to get 40 — I believe, 50 percent
of all our vehicles in America be electric vehicles, with 550,000
charging stations along the highways that are being repaired and — you
know, or built.

And, you know, that means, for Michigan, if I’m looking at my notes
here, you’re going to receive $110 million dollars for the expansion of
EV — of EV charging networks. 

So, I just think, hopefully, this makes people realize if the
autoworkers and the automobile executives can get together and form this
kind of alliance, I think we’re making some real progress.

But, thank you, Jennifer \[Gretchen\], for what you’ve done and continue
to do.

And, Mr. Mayor — Jerry, I don’t want to get you in trouble out in
Fresno, California, for letting you know I actually like a Republican. 
But you’ve done a hell of a job.  I’m anxious to hear about your
electric buses later. 

But, anyway, the floor is yours, Jerry.

MAYOR DYER:  Thank you, Mr. President, for your leadership on this
critical infrastructure package.  You know, there — there are really
many things to like about this infrastructure bill, beginning with
bipartisan support.  That always makes it easier on us at the local
level, as you mentioned.

And the last time I checked, both Republican and Democrats alike travel
on our roadways and cross our bridges, use mass transit, and breathe the
same air. 

So, unfortunately, Fresno, along with Los Angeles, our neighbors to the
south, had some of the worst air quality in the nation —

THE PRESIDENT:  Yep.

MAYOR DYER:  — which is why we’re focused on transitioning to clean air
buses in Fresno, as you mentioned.  In fact, we rolled out our first two
electric buses last week —

THE PRESIDENT:  I know.

MAYOR DYER:  — thanks to a Federal Transportation Administration grant. 
Thank you, Mr. President, to your administration.  And this bi- — this
bill, I believe, will accelerate those efforts here in Fresno. 

Second, as you know, Fresno is ground zero to — for California’s
high-speed rail efforts.

THE PRESIDENT:  Yep.

MAYOR DYER:  And I’m proud to say that Fresno will be host to the — the
nation’s first high-speed rail station right here in downtown Fresno. 
And so federal assistance is vital in order to complete this project. 
And I’m hopeful that this infrastructure bill will provide that
financial support to us here in Fresno.

And Fresno, like many cities, is in the midst of airport expansion with
the addition of a new terminal at our Fresno Yosemite International
Airport this coming year.  And certainly, this bill has the potential to
expedite our airport expansion as well. 

And with the changing climate and drought conditions in California, we
are facing, on a weekly basis, life-threatening wildfires that not only
put our power grid in danger locally, but our firefighters as well.  And
this bill will strengthen our power grid by investing in it, which is
vital in our region.  And it’s very important that we do so in order to
avoid some of the rolling blackouts that we experience here in Fresno as
a matter of routine.

And lastly, unfortunately — and I’m not proud of this — but Fresno is
number two in poverty in the state of California.  We have a very poor
valley, a very poor region.  Most of our jobs historically have been
agricultural-centric, although that is changing.  And this
infrastructure bill will create good-paying, meaningful jobs, which are
desperately needed in Fresno and throughout our region, and allow us to
build upon those agricultural jobs that we’ve been relying upon.

So I just want to say, on — as the mayor of Fresno and as a Republican,
I am very grateful for your leadership, Mr. President on this
infrastructure package — making it a priority with your administration;
considering — or taking into consideration input from state and local
jurisdictions; as well as working diligently to pursue that bipartisan
support. 

So, thank you again, and we are here to assist and take advantage of
that funding.

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, Jerry — thank you, Mr. Mayor.  Look, I’m not being
solicitous, but we kind of had Fresno in mind — I’m not joking — because
the air quality, the — where you sit, how tough it is for you there. 

And, you know, all the things you mentioned have an impact — are going
to allow you to have an impact on air quality.

You know me, because you’re aware of it, I’m a big rail guy. 

MAYOR DYER:  Yes.

THE PRESIDENT:  We have more money in this — in this area for high-speed
rail than all the money we spend on set — setting up Amtrak.  This is a
gigantic investment.  And you know as well as I do, when people can take
a train from point A to point B — conveniently and faster than you can
drive your vehicle — they take the train. 

We’re talking about electric.  We’re talking about electric.  We’re not
talking diesels.  We’re talking about electric.  And we’re talking about
being able to transform and impact on the air quality in your area,
because of geographic location and the spot you’re in. 

Also, with regard to the power grid: You know, you have seen more than
most people — in California, you’ve seen the impact that weather has on
not being able to sustain the security of the power grid — 

MAYOR DYER:  Right.

THE PRESIDENT:  — whether it was bad weather or fires or whatever it
is.  And there’s a lot of money in here — a lot of money in here for
making sure we can take care of the lines that carry the electricity,
the lines that move it along. 

And one of the other pieces in here that I know you know about because
you’re already doing it, is that — you know, your airport — your
airport, as well as the high-speed rail terminal.  That also — there’s
money in here for airports.  Republicans strongly supported it, as well
as Democrats, because there’s a lot that has to be done to modernize the
airports.  And that also has the impact of cutting down on air quality
problems and the like. 

And so, there’s so much.  And I understand you have seven more electric
buses on order or you’re thinking about getting another seven.  We got
some money for you.

MAYOR DYER:  Yeah, we have —

THE PRESIDENT:  We got some money for you.

MAYOR DYER:  (Laughs.)  Well, thank you, Mr. President.  We actually
have seven more that are going to be coming on line in 2022.  So — and
if you want to send us more, we’ll take them.

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, by the way, it is really a big, big deal.  And one
of the things we’re doing is we have provisions that we’re trying to
encourage the American manufacturers to actually generate and build the
platforms for these electric buses.

I was in Carolina looking at a factory where they’re making not only
school buses, but also, you know, the regular transit systems that are
electric-based.  It’s phenomenal what’s going on, but we have to make
sure we have all the par- — you know, access to — to the various pieces
of materials and minerals we need to produce them.  But it’s a big
deal. 

So, I’m going to be coming back to you, and all of you, to get help on
making sure we continue to make these investments because I view this as
just starting, not the end. 

But this is going to — this is going to play out over the next eight
years — these investments.  It’s a lot of money.  It’s over $500 million
— billion in new money over those eight years.  And it’s paid for.  It’s
paid for. 

So, thanks for what you’re doing. 

And, you know, I always joke with my friends: You know, being a mayor
maybe is the toughest job in American politics; they know where you live
— (laughs) — and you affect their everyday lives more than anybody.  So,
I wish you the best of luck. 

MAYOR DYER:  Thank you, Mr. President.

THE PRESIDENT:  Mayor Lumumba, from Jackson, Mississippi.  How you
doing, pal?  Good to see you again.  Thanks for being so nice to my
wife.

MAYOR LUMUMBA:  (Laughs.)  Thank you, Mr. President.  It’s a pleasure to
join you.  It’s a pleasure to join all of the amazing people on this
call today. 

I want to express my gratitude not only to your administration, but
towards the bipartisan effort that has led to this bill passing the
Senate. 

I want to thank Roger — Senator Roger Wicker —

THE PRESIDENT:  Yep.

MAYOR LUMUMBA:  — from Mississippi —

THE PRESIDENT:  He stepped up.

MAYOR LUMUMBA:  — who stepped up and supported this effort. 

Mr. President, as you are well aware, the residents of Jackson, who I
have the honor to serve, are greater than the sum of their challenges. 
And the city of Jackson is greater than the sum of its challenges, with
amazing people and with a city which is pregnant with possibilities. 
But we do have real challenges, which were reflected in our February
storms — the consecutive storms that we faced that completely
debilitated our water distribution system.  These are challenges we have
seen frequently and were reflected in a different fashion most recently
in February. 

Because we have experienced hotter — hotter summers, colder winters, and
more rain in the rainy season, it has had a detrimental impact on our
aging and crumbling infrastructure.  What it resulted in, in February,
was literally raw water screens that froze, making it difficult for
water to get into our water treatment facility, consequently making it
difficult for treated water to get out.  This led to thousands — tens of
thousands of residents across the city of Jackson being without potable
and non-potable water. 

This is more than just a matter of convenience.  It is a matter of life
and what people rely on.  It’s how people take their medication.  It’s
how people, in the midst of a pandemic — pandemic, take care of their
sanitary needs. 

And so, this has been an extreme challenge.  And I can’t express enough
my gratitude for your efforts and the bipartisan effort to see to this
bill passing the Senate.  And we look forward to its passage through the
House. 

I believe that one of our principal functions, as leaders who are
responsible for the needs of our residents, is understanding that
budgets are moral documents which should reflect the values we have as a
nation. 

We need our budgets and we need our economy to more than just reflect
our aspirations of GDP and stock market metrics.  They must meet
sustainable development goals, and we must create a dignity economy — an
economy which reflects the inherent dignity of every person. 

To be able to provide safe drinking water, a sustainable infrastructure,
a resilient infrastructure, and. might I add, an equitable
infrastructure has to be a part of our plan to build back better. 

And so, I want to, once again, express my gratitude for your hard work,
your focus on this issue.  When I met you during your campaign in
Atlanta, Georgia, you stated that this would be a focus of yours, and
I’m thankful for you holding true to that promise.

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, Mr. Mayor, thank you.  You know, I think it’s
important that the other sixteen- or seventeen hundred people who are on
this call understand what you and others have gone through. 

You — you found yourself in a position, in terms of water, where — it’s
estimated by our team that over the next 20 years, Mississippi drinking
water infrastructure — Mississippi drinking water infrastructure is
going to require $4.8 billion in additional funding. 

And the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act includes $55 billion in
investment to ensure clean, safe drinking water.  And it’s a right of
all communities, as you point out.

And the bill would eliminate the nation’s lead-based service lines,
which I know you and I talked about.  And so, there’s a lot of good
that’s going on in here. 

And I say to Mayor Dryer \[Dyer\] as well that — we talk about, you
know, the poverty rate of these towns — you know, we’re going to be able
to fab \[sic\] — all of you have full-blown Internet that’s affordable
and available in rural and cities across the way that’s going to change
the circumstance for people in those communities that — particularly,
those folks — so people don’t have to — when they’re — if, God forbid,
we’re back to having, you know, distanced learning, where they don’t
have to sit in the McDonald’s parking lot to get access — with their mom
or dad — to get access to the Internet to do their work. 

So, I just can’t thank you enough.  You’ve — you’ve really gone out of
the way to deal with the issues that we’re talking about here.  And I
think — I hope you’re going to see a lot of benefit flow from this. 
Because the idea, you know, no more Flints, no more Jacksons, in terms
of water, because we’re going to get this done with — as my grandfather
used to say, “with the grace of God and the goodwill of the neighbors.” 

But we got, also, the entire United States Senate supporting it by 69
votes.  And we’re looking forward to it happening in the House as well. 
So, thanks a lot, pal.  And let us know what you need in this if you’re
— if — any of you, if you, you know — if any of it comes across as
confusing. 

Now, I know Liz Hausmann of Fulton County — County Commissioner — isn’t
going to be confused about anything.  But, I — you know, I — Liz, I made
a mistake saying that being a mayor is the toughest; maybe being a
county commissioner is.  You know why?  Because you knock on a door and
say, “My name is Joe Biden, candidate for the county council.”  And
they’ll look at you and smile and say, “Yeah.”  And you know what
they’re thinking — “What do you do?  What does a commissioner do?” 
(Laughs.) 

Anyway, you have a hell of a job, Liz, and so why don’t you tell me what
you — what’s on your mind.  And I know you take — do you take in a lot
of Atlanta in your district?

COMMISSIONER HAUSMANN:  Atlanta is in our county.  Yes, sir. 

THE PRESIDENT:  Yeah. 

COMMISSIONER HAUSMANN:  We have 15 cities, including Atlanta. 

THE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.  Well, fire away.  The floor is yours.

COMMISSIONER HAUSMANN:  Well, Mr. President, first of all, it’s an honor
to serve the citizens of Fulton County, but it’s a true honor to be here
with you today as we have this important conversation about the future
and improving our nation’s infrastructure.  So, thank you for having me.

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.  
  
COMMISSIONER HAUSMANN:  I’m coming from the state of Georgia, which
provides — which prides itself in being the number-one state in the
nation to do business.  Along with that, of course, comes heavy traffic
and congestion.

For counties across the country, generally, this is an important
conversation, as we are tasked with directly supporting 78 percent of
the public transit systems across the United States.  So, this $39
billion in new investments is greatly appreciated and will be very
impactful to the services that we provide in the public transit arena.

Counties invest over $23 billion each year in the operation,
maintenance, and construction of transit utilities and mass transit
systems, including subways, surface rails, and buses. 

That’s all to say that counties play a critical role in the nation’s
transportation and infrastructure network, and we appreciate all the
work that has gone into the creation of the bipartisan infrastructure
investment and Jobs Act.

Here in Fulton County and the 13-county metro Atlanta region, we have
done extensive planning for expanding our transit system, including site
visits with our county and city leaders to transit assets of other major
metropolitan areas.  And our state has legislatively created a regional
authority to coordinate efforts with existing transit agencies across
our region. 

Unfortunately, we do not have the resources necessary to implement those
plans.  So, we’re especially pleased to see the increase in the Small
Starts program project eligibility from $300- to $400 million, along
with the increase of $50 million in the federal match.

For Fulton County and Metro Atlanta, this means that many of our transit
expansion projects will now be eligible to receive this expanded federal
funding. 

The bottom line is that this bipartisan infrastructure package provides
mobility options for our community, and the transit provisions provide
connectivity, jobs, and sustainability for the growth that we know is
coming.  In Metro Atlanta alone, we expect to grow by 2 million people
in the next 20 years. 

So, we’ve long suffered with local governments being the — required to
fund what really is a regional problem. 

THE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.

COMMISSIONER HAUSMANN:  The reality is each county is limited to funding
projects within our county borders.  And our authority may stop at the
county border, but our transportation needs do not. 

THE PRESIDENT:  Absolutely.

COMMISSIONER HAUSMANN:  So, we can’t do it without the support and
partnership of our state and federal government.  And this bipartisan
infrastructure package will help us do just that.  So, thank you very
much.

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, thank you.  Look, what usually is — I know all of
you understand this — and the other over a thousand  people on this call
understand — local officials — is that when you talk about the commute
times and public transportation, you know, the — in Georgia, public
transportation spends an extra — those on public transportation spend an
extra 74.1 percent of their time commuting.  And non-white hol- —
\[non-\]white households are 3.9 times more likely to commute on public
transportation.

Seven percent of the trains and other transit vehicles in the state are
past their useful life.  And based on the formula funding alone, Georgia
would expect to get $1.4 billion over the next five years — a
significant portion of which would be in your county — under the
infrastructure investment and Jobs Act to improve public transportation
across the state. 

When you spend that much time commuting — all of you know this — it
costs taxpayers — it cost those commuters a lot of money.  For example,
the average — the average Georgia driver, on average, spends $375 a year
in costs due to driving on roads that need to be repaired. 

You have a circumstance in your state where 374 bridges and over two
thousand six — 260 miles of highway are in poor condition.  So, it all
comes down to being able to move and move without creating additional
pollution, and generating the ability to move safely and do it in a way
that will significantly increase business opportunities and the like. 

So, I — having been a county official myself, I know that it’s — it’s
hard to convince people that, because you overlap cities and towns and
the like, that, you know, it all affects you; you don’t have it all. 

So, thank you for your support.  And I think it’s going to be very
helpful, I hope.

COMMISSIONER HAUSMANN:  Thank you.  I’m glad to hear you’ve got Georgia
on your mind, Mr. President.

THE PRESIDENT:  Oh, I do, for more — for more than one reason. 
(Laughs.)

Look, I finally want to turn to Principal Chief Chuck Hoskin, Cherokee
Nation in Oklahoma.  Principal Chief Hoskin, your administration has
invested millions of dollars to bring high-speed Internet to Cherokee
Nation, especially rural Cherokee communities.  How will the additional
Tribal broadband resources support your Tribal citizens?  Or whatever
else you want to talk about.  But it seems to me that ought to be — that
— that should be of significant help to you, I hope.

PRINCIPAL CHIEF HOSKIN:  It is.  Thank you, Mr. President.  It’s a great
honor to be with you and with all the leaders on this panel.

This bill is important for the country.  But I want you to know that the
bill is important to me because you didn’t forget Indian Country.  This
bill, overall, has more than $11 billion in investment in Indian
Country.  That is historic — potentially transformational investment for
Tribes across this country.  That’s very important.

THE PRESIDENT:  Indian nations.  Indian nations. 

PRINCIPAL CHIEF HOSKIN:  Indian Nations across this country, working as
sovereigns — as sovereigns with the United States.

For us, broadband is a high priority.  You know, no Cherokee kid ought
to be going to school without access to high-speed Internet.  No elder
ought to lack access to the kind of telemedicine that we’re making
available to our people because they live in an area without
connectivity. 

The entrepreneurs that we know are out there in some of our little
communities and our bigger communities — they shouldn’t miss
opportunities to develop because they live in an area where they can’t
connect with the rest of the world.  Cherokee families ought to be able
to connect just like anyone else.

And connectivity and broadband is important for the country.  In Indian
Country, the problem is particularly difficult in the rural parts of
Indian Country, in particular.  So, we’re dealing with that at Cherokee
Nation. 

We’ve already, as you indicated, have invested heavily into that cause
for the reasons that I mentioned.  But there’s another reason, which is
that, if a lot of these small communities in these rural areas wither on
the vine because they don’t have broadband and a chance to succeed in
the new economy, that means Cherokee lifeways and culture and our
language withers on the vine, and we can’t let that happen.  So, this is
an important moment for the Cherokee Nation.

During COVID, what we found is what we already were concerned about,
which is that when you have a lack of high-speed Internet, when you have
the worst public health crisis in living memory, and students are having
to change the way they learn, and elders are having to be more isolated,
families are having to socially distance from their fellow Cherokees —
we know that it’s more important than ever to stay connected. 

And what we found — we used a Department of Interior grant, and we found
that 35 of our communities lacked connectivity, but we went right to
work to stand up high — hotspots in those communities.  We issued 11,000
hotspots to students and other Cherokees who needed them, just to get us
through.  That was important.  It was a significant investment, but it
really is a drop in the bucket, Mr. President, of what we need as we
went out and visited with these families.

So, we are applying for the Tribal Broadband Connectivity grant through
the United States Department of Commerce, the National
Telecommunications —

THE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.

PRINCIPAL CHIEF HOSKIN:  — and Infrastrati- — Information
Administration.  What this bill does is it injects $2 billion — more
dollars into that program.  It extends the life of the program by four
years. 

That’s going to let Tribes, like the Cherokee Nation, that are already
working on this to grab those dollars and put them immediately to work
to scale up what I’m talking about.  So those communities where we put
up hotspots will — will build out the infrastructure needed to make
permanent conductivity in those communities.  We’ll make sure that those
kids and those elders stay connected.

And the other thing that your administration has done is its commitment
to working and consulting in a meaningful manner with Tribal nations. 
And that’s why we have confidence when we work with your Department of
Commerce that we can tailor these programs in a way that’s flexible,
that reflects what we need in our rural communities, in our Cherokee
communities.  We have great confidence in that.  So, it’s as much about
the respect as it is about the dollars.  But the dollars, of course, are
indispensable, and they are plentiful in this bill.

We recently visited, Mr. President, an elderly family — some Cherokee
elders that are fluent Cherokee speakers.  They live in a little
community called Bellefonte.  They had told us that they actually didn’t
go to their telemedicine appointments during COVID when we had to keep
our health facilities limited in terms of access because they didn’t
have connectivity.  And we didn’t know it, so we partnered with Starlink
and we have high-speed Internet to their home. 

And so, our Deputy Chief, Bryan Warner, and I got on a virtual
conference with them.  They said they’d only seen something like that on
TV.  They never thought they would do it.  It’s opening up an entire
world to them.

And what it told me, Mr. President, and what I think it tells a lot of
Tribal leaders, is that we have a chance to get a foothold in the
economy for our people. 

But this is very important: Those are fluent Cherokee speakers.  If we
don’t succeed right now in connecting elders to kids, connecting
schools, connecting healthcare, we will lose something that’s
irreplaceable.  It’s more irreplaceable than the economic development
that we know this bill will generate.  It’s more important than
anything, and that is Cherokee language and culture.

When we look back, Mr. President, generations from now, and know that we
saved it, know that Cherokee language is thriving and that our economy
is doing good and that our reservation is a place where there’s
prosperity — we’re going to look back at this moment, and we’re going to
see that we had this opportunity to make transformational change. 

We couldn’t have done it without our federal partners.  We’re certainly
proud of our leadership.  We couldn’t do it without this bill, I’m
confident.

And you have my great appreciation and admiration for that.

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, you have my appreciation.  You don’t owe me
anything or nothing to appreciate.  This is — this is what we used to do
when I first got to the Senate.  You know, we actually worked with one
another.

And look, one of the things that affects Tribal lands, in my — in my
experience — not just Cherokee, but across the board — is that they’re
significantly at risk for the effects of climate change.  And
infrastructure investments that we’re talking about here is going to
invest in — in everything from forest management, to helping communities
build resilience, to wildfires and floods, and everything from elevating
buildings to roads to bridges.  Because we have to — we have to build
back to where we know the minimum requirements are now, and we got to do
it better. 

You can’t build back to what it used to be.  You used to be able to
build back a road to what it was before it got flooded out, before — you
can’t do that anymore because the climate has changed so significantly
already, and so you have to elevate.  You have to move.

You see what’s happening on — at least in the East Coast, from Florida
up to where I live in Delaware, and beyond — along the coast.  You see
the effects of the rising seas and buildings literally sinking or
tilting, and losing their ability to stand. 

I mean, it’s — it’s a big deal, the things that are changing.  And so —
and I think it’s particularly, you know, important in — in Tribal lands
— elevating buildings, roads, bridges, winterizing the power grid, and
the like.  And so, there’s a lot to do that benefits everybody.

You know, one of the points I want to make — and I’ll get off my soapbox
here — but, you know, my observation in my years in public life have
been that when ordinary folks do well, everybody does well.  Everybody
does well.  The wealthy do very well.  The upper-middle class do very
well.  The middle cla- — I mean it sincerely.  When it works from the
middle out and the bottom up, everybody does well. 

And there’s all kinds of studies from the great universities in your
states demonstrating that that is the case.  And so, this is what this
is about. 

And I think we have a real chance to deliver everything from clean
drinking water, to access to Internets, to roads that are not congested,
to dealing with the —

I was up in — I think it was Wisconsin, and I was talking to a group of
folks in a factory.  And — and then I spoke afterwards, and they showed
me around.  And there were about a couple hundred people.  And in front
of me, in this factory floor, were the elected officials — the governor
and other folks — and to my right were all the folks — both the hourly
workers and the management. 

And I talked about this having safety provisions in it.  And they all
looked at me like, “What the hell does that mean?”  And I said, “I bet
every one of you can name for me the intersections in your town, in your
city where the highest accident rate is, where the most pedestrians are
hit, where bicyclists get killed, where there is (inaudible).

And in unison — not a joke — if there were 120 people there, 100 of them
started shaking their heads, “Yeah, we know.”  This does a lot of
practical things — a lot of practical things to change the environment
that people live in.

So I — and there’s a lot more to do.  I know.  And we still have to get
it through the House and get things moving.

But I want to thank you all for your time, your insight, and your
continued leadership.  And I want to thank you for — we’re closer than
we’ve ever been a long time to making a once-in-a-generation investment.

You know, this total investment in roads, in highways is bigger than we
did in the — Eisenhower’s, you know, Interstate Highway System.  You
know, this is — the — the only analogies out there and the vote to get
it are similar.

Our — you know, we started off with, you know, the Erie Canal.  We
started off with moving people west.  We started off the
Intercontinental Railroad in the late 1800s.  All — all kidding aside,
we linked the coast.  Now we came along and we did — and we had the —
all the way up to Eisenhower’s Interstate Highway System.  It has
literally changed the way Americans live, changed the way we live and
the way we’ve developed. 

And now we’re investing as much money or more money to do those kinds of
things that can make us better connected and also give us more breathing
room and clean the air a little bit.

So, I want to thank you all because almost all of you — I think all of
you signed on to the bipartisan effort of mayors and — and — as well as
other state and county officials to support this.

And I promise you, we’re going to stay on top of making sure, as long as
I’m here, that it gets out, it gets out swiftly, and it gets out
economically, and it gets out in a way that builds this country. 

And I know I got criticized when I was running.  Said — I said I was
running for three reasons.  One, to restore the soul of the country. 
Two, to rebuild the backbone — the middle-class and working-class people
— of this country, and not leave them behind.  And thirdly, to unite the
country. 

I know a lot of people were skeptical, but we can do this.  We can do
this.  We’re going to disagree in philosophy on some of the things, but
we can do this.  I’m convinced we can. 

And, by the way, I’m going to say something that has no direct bearing
on — immediate bearing on what any of you are dealing with.  But, you
know, when I was over in the NATO conference; or I was over for the G7,
with the largest industrial nations in the world; and when I was at a,
you know, summit with Putin — and I’m about to go do the same thing, in
terms of the G20 — you know what affects our — the attitude of the
American — of the rest of the world about the United States?  “Can we
still do — get things done?”  Not a joke.  Not a joke. 

When I went over, I said — with those seven leaders, I said, “We’re
back.”  And the response was, “For how long?  For how long?  You guys
can’t get anything done.” 

I’ll conclude by saying that, you know, when I won — just because of my
Irish background — heritage — they were ringing bells in Ireland and
painting my picture on the side of buildings and the like.  But the
Taoiseach of Ireland — the Prime Minister of Ireland — said something
just before I got sworn in that made a lot of sense.  He said, “I think
I’m — I’m not sure what America can do anymore.  They can’t even deal
with COVID.  They can’t lead anymore.”

That’s what the world is looking at us — they’re wondering. 

And you got guys like Xi Jinping and Putin who think the answer is
autocracy, because democracies can’t get together.  The world is
changing so rapidly — so rapidly.  We can’t get together and answer the
big, tough questions. 

I really mean it.  I’m not joking.  I promise you, this is what your
children and grandchildren are going to be writing about in their senior
thesis in graduate school. 

And we got to make sure we can demonstrate we can get things done.  And
it can’t be done by one party.

So, thank you all so very, very, very much.  And as I said, as my
Grandpop would say, “With the grace of God, the goodwill of the
neighbors, and the creek not rising, we’re going to get all this done.” 

And — and I hope you all take a look at my Build Back Better plan that
has to do with a lot of other pieces that are — that the Senate just
agreed to move forward on.  You may not agree, but take a look at it and
see if any of it has a value to your communities.  Okay?

Thanks, everybody.  I really do appreciate it.  Thank you, thank you,
thank you, thank you. 

Q    Are you worried about the debt ceiling, Mr. President?

THE PRESIDENT:  Nope.  They’re not going to let us default.  Eight
billion –- eight trillion of that is on Republican conscience.

3:59 P.M. EDT
