---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-08-25'
modified_time: 2021-09-07 15:19:20-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/08/25/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-the-launch-of-the-u-s-cdcs-southeast-asia-regional-office-in-hanoi-vietnam/
published_time: 2021-08-25 21:43:00-04:00
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at the Launch of the U.S. CDC\u2019s Southeast\
  \ Asia Regional Office in Hanoi,\_Vietnam"
---
 
JW Marriott Hanoi  
Hanoi, Vietnam

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Chris.  It is an honor to be here
to celebrate the launch of the Southeast Asia Regional Office of the
United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.  
  
     It is one of four such offices in the entire world and a testament
— a true testament for our commitment to this important region.   
  
     So, thank you to all of those who made the opening of this office
possible.  It is an honor to be here today with all of you, the leaders
charged with keeping Southeast Asia healthy.  There has never been a
more important time to do this important work and to join together in
partnership.   
  
     The pandemic has taught us that our world is more interconnected
and interdependent than ever before and that the threats we face are
accelerating more rapidly.  
  
     We have all felt this deeply, both as COVID-19 has taken millions
of lives around the world and as our world has come together to develop
and distribute vaccines that are saving millions of lives.  
  
     This January, when President Joe Biden and I took office, we were
determined to build an arsenal of safe and effective vaccines for the
world.   
  
     And to date, of the 110 million doses we have shipped out
worldwide, we have delivered more than 23 million of those to Southeast
Asia.   
  
     Today, I am pleased to announce that one million more — one million
more doses are on the way to Vietnam as we speak and meet at this very
moment.  This brings the total number of doses we’ve donated to Vietnam
to 6 million.  And these new doses will start arriving in the next 24
hours.   
  
     I should add that all of these deliveries are, in fact, donations —
free of charge, with no strings attached — because for us, this is about
saving lives.  Period.  
  
     We have also pledged $500,000 to ASEAN COVID-19 Response Fund to
support the purchase of more vaccines.  
  
     The United States remains a strong supporter of ASEAN centrality,
including in a regional health security location.  And we will look to
deepen our public health cooperation with ASEAN going forward.  
  
     In addition, we have provided more than $150 million in emergency
assistance to the countries of this region to help get those shots in
arms and to help COVID patients recover.   
  
     With the launch of this office today, we intend to build on these
efforts and help to grow the public health infrastructure across
Southeast Asia.  
  
     Specifically, we want to work with you to improve readiness and
response in the event — in the inevitable event of a future pandemic or
public health crisis.  
  
     To that end, we are working to train disease detectives — “disease
detectives,” we call them; health professionals — through the field of
epidemiology, and that training program which has actually been in place
in Asia since 1980.  
  
     We are also investing in research and supporting the creation of
emergency management systems.  
  
     And we are working with all of you to develop the next generation
of healthcare professionals, because we know the COVID-19 pandemic will
not be the last threat of its kind that we face, and we must be — if we
are honest — better prepared for the next one.  
  
     On that note, at a time when we should be celebrating nurses and
doctors, we are especially alarmed by the situation in Myanmar where the
military continues to attack healthcare professionals.   
  
     President Joe Biden and I are deeply concerned by the military coup
and the human rights abuses that have followed.  We condemn the violence
and stand with the people of Myanmar.  This must end.  
  
     And today, we reiterate our call for an end to the violence, the
release of those unjustly detained, and a swift restoration of the path
to democracy.  
  
     In closing, in this new era indeed, our world is interconnected and
interdependent.  Partnership is therefore essential.  We must all be
willing to take on challenges together — the challenges, let’s take them
on together to create opportunities together.  
  
     That is why the launch of this CDC office and our work together is
so very important.  
  
     Thank you all.  And we look forward to partnering with you for the
years to come.  Thank you.  (Applause.)    
