---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-08-18'
modified_time: 2021-08-18 18:43:39-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/08/18/remarks-by-president-biden-on-fighting-the-covid-19-pandemic-2/
published_time: 2021-08-18 19:00:00-04:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on Fighting the COVID-\u206019\_Pandemic"
---
 
East Room

4:31 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon.  I’d like to make an important
announcement today in our work to get every American vaccinated and
protected from the Delta virus — the Delta variant of COVID-19.

I just got a lengthy briefing from my COVID team, and here’s the lattest
\[sic\] — the latest data that confirms we’re still in a pandemic of the
unvaccinated.

While we’re starting to see initial signs that cases may be declining in
a few places, cases are still rising, especially among the
unvaccinated.  There are still 85 million Americans who are eligible to
get vaccinated who remain unvaccinated and at real risk.

Across the country, virtually all of the COVID-19 hospitalizations and
deaths continue to be among the unvaccinated.  In Alabama, more than 90
percent of the current hospitalizations are among the unvaccinated.  In
Texas, 95 percent of those in hospitals are unvaccinated.  Right now,
it’s worse in states where overall vaccination rates are low. 

But let me be clear: Even in states where the vaccination rate is high,
the unvaccinated in those states are also at risk and — and we’re seeing
cases rise as a result. 

Quite frankly, it’s a tragedy.  There are people who are dying and who
will die who didn’t have to. 

So, please, if you haven’t gotten vaccinated, do it now.  Do it now.  It
could save your life, and it could save the lives of those you love.

You know, and the good news is that more people are getting vaccinated. 
Overall, weekly new vaccinations are up more than 80 percent from where
they were a month ago.

While it can take up to six weeks to get fully protected after your
first shot, this increased level of vaccination is going to provide
results in the weeks ahead.

Just remember, we have two key — and two key ways of protecting
ourselves against COVID-19.  One: safe, free, and effective vaccines. 
And two: masks.  Vaccines are the best defense, but masks are extremely
helpful as well.

And for those who aren’t eligible for the vaccine yet — children under
the age of 12 — masks are the best available protection for them and the
adults around them.  That’s why we need to make sure children are
wearing masks in school.

Before I talk about the news related to vaccines, let me say a few words
about masks and our children. 

Unfortunately, as we’ve seen throughout this pandemic, some politicians
are trying to turn public safety measures — that is, children wearing
masks in school — into political disputes for their own political gain. 
Some are even trying to take power away from local educators by banning
masks in school.  They’re setting a dangerous tone.

For example, last week, at a schoolboard meeting in Tennessee,
protestors threatened doctors and nurses who were testifying, making the
case for masking children in schools. 

The intimidation and the threats we’re seeing across the country are
wrong.  They’re unacceptable.

And I’ve said before, this isn’t about politics.  It’s about keeping our
children safe.  This is about taking on the virus together, united.

I’ve made it clear that I will stand with those who are trying to do the
right thing.

Last week, I called school superintendents in Florida and Arizona to
thank them for doing the right thing and requiring masks in their
schools.  One of them said, “We teach science, so we follow the
science.”  The other said they have a guiding principle: “Students
first.”  I couldn’t agree with more than –I just couldn’t agree more
with what they both said.

And that’s why, today, I am directing the Secretary of Education — an
educator himself — to take additional steps to protect our children. 
This includes using all of his oversight authorities and legal actions,
if appropriate, against governors

who are trying to block and intimidate local school officials and
educators.

As I’ve said before, if you aren’t going to fight COVID-19, at least get
out of the way of everyone else who is trying.  You know, we’re not
going to sit by as governors try to block and intimidate educators
protecting our children.

For example, if a governor wants to cut the pay of a hardworking
education leader who requires masks in the classroom, the money from the
American Rescue Plan can be used to pay that person’s salary — 100
percent.

I’m going to say a lot more about children and schools next week.  But
as we head into the school year, remember this: The Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention — the CDC — says masks are critical, especially
for those who are not yet vaccinated, like our children under the age of
12. 

So, let’s put politics aside.

Let’s follow the educators and the scientists who know a lot more about
how to teach our children and keep them safe

than any politician. 

This administration is always going to take the side of our children.

Next, I want to talk to those who — of you who can get vaccinated but
you haven’t.  The Delta variant is twice as transmissible as the Alpha
variant.  It’s dangerous, and it continues to spread.  Vaccines are the
key to stopping it, and we’re making progress.

Today, more than 90 percent of seniors have at least had one shot, and
70 percent of people over the age 12 have gotten their first shot as
well.  That’s good news, but we need to go faster.

That’s why I’m taking steps on vaccination requirements where I can. 
Already, I’ve outlined vaccine requirements.  We’re going reach millions
of Americans: federal workers and contractors; medical staff caring for
our veterans at VA hospitals; and our active-duty military, reservists,
and National Guard.

Today, I’m announcing a new step.  If you work in a nursing home and
serve people on Medicare or Medicaid, you will also be required to get
vaccinated. 

More than 130,000 residents in nursing homes have sa- — have sadly, over
the period of this virus, passed away.

At the same time, vaccination rates among nursing home staff
significantly trail the rest of the country.  The studies show that
highly vaccinated nursing home staffs is associated with at least 30
percent less COVID-19 cases among long-term care residents. 

With this announcement, I’m using the power of the federal government,
as a payer of healthcare costs, to ensure we reduce those risks to our
most vulnerable seniors.

These steps are all about keeping people safe and out of harm’s way.

If you walk into a government office building, you should know that
federal workers are doing everything possible to keep you safe.

If you’re a veteran seeking care at a VA hospital, you should not be at
a greater risk walking into the hospital than you were outside the
hospital.

And now, if you visit, live, or work in a nursing home, you should not
be at a high risk for contracting COVID from unvaccinated employees.

While I’m mindful that my authority at the federal level is limited, I’m
going to continue to look for ways to keep people safe and increase
vaccination rates.

And I’m pleased to see the private sector stepping up as well.

In the last week, AT&T, Amtrak, McDonalds — they all announced vaccine
requirements.

I recently met with a group of business and education leaders — from
United Airlines, to Kaiser Permanente, to Howard University — who are
also doing the same thing.

Over 200 health systems, more than 50 in the past two weeks, have
announced vaccine requirements.  Colleges and universities are requiring
more than 5 million students to be vaccinated as they return to classes
this fall.

All of this makes a difference.

The Wall Street Journal reported the share of job postings stating that
new hires must be vaccinated has nearly doubled in the past month.

Governors and mayors in California, Maryland, Massachusetts, New York,
Oregon, and Washington have all announced vaccination requirements. 

So let’s be clear: Vaccination requirements have been around for
decades.  Students, healthcare professionals, our troops are typically
required to receive vaccines to prevent everything from polio to
smallpox to measles to mumps to rubella.

In fact, the reason most people in America don’t worry about polio,
smallpox, measles, mumps, and rubella today is because of vaccines.  It
only makes sense to require a vaccine that stops the spread of COVID-19.

And it’s time for others to step up.  Employers have more power today to
end this pandemic than they have ever had before.  My message is simple:
Do the right thing for your employees, consumers, and your businesses.

Let’s remember: The key tool to keeping our economy going strong is to
get people vaccinated and at work.

I know that I’ll have your back — they should know I’ll have their back,
as I have the back of the states trying to do the right thing as well.

For example, yesterday, I instructed the Federal Emergency Management
Agency –- FEMA –- to extend full reimbursement through the end of the
year to state developments — to state deployments of National Guard in
support of COVID-19 response.

Nearly 18,000 National Guard members are supporting our response
nationwide, from caring for patients, to administering vaccines, to
running testing sites, to distributing supplies.

As the states continue to recover from the economic toll left by
COVID-19, the full reimbursement of National Guard services during this
pandemic will be another tool that will help them shore up their
budgets, meet the needs of their communities, and continue our ec- — our
economic recovery. 

These are the latest steps we’re taking to get more people vaccinated.

Next, I want to speak to you all — all of you who are vaccinated.  How
should you be thinking about the moment we’re in?

First, know that you’re highly protected against severe illness and
death from COVID-19.  Only a small fraction of people going to the
hospital today are those who have been vaccinated.

But we have a responsibility to give the maximum amount of protection —
all of you the maximum amount.

Earlier today, our medical experts announced a plan for booster shots to
every fully vaccinated American — adult American.  You know, this shot
will boost your immune response.  It will increase your protection from
COVID-19.  And it’s the best way to protect ourselves from new variants
that could arise.

The plan is for every az- — every adult to get a booster shot eight
months after you got your second shot.

Pending approval from the Food and Drug Administration and the CDC’s
Committee of outside experts, we’ll be ready to start these booster —
this booster program during the week of September 20, in which time
anyone fully vaccinated on or before January 20 will be eligible to get
a booster shot.

So that means that if you got your second shot on February 15th, you’re
eligible to get your booster shot on October 15th.  If you got your
second shot on March 15th, go for your booster starting on November
15th.  And so on.

Just remember, as a simple rule — rule: Eight months after your second
shot, get a booster shot.

And these booster shots are free.  We’d be able to get the booster shots
at any one of the approximately 80,000 vaccination locations
nationwide. 

It will be easy.  Just show your vaccination card and you’ll get a
booster.  No other ID.  No insurance.  No state residency requirement.

My administration has been planning for this possibility and this
scenario for months.  We purchased enough vaccine and vaccine supplies
so that when your eight-month mark comes up, you’ll be ready to get your
vaccination free — that booster shot free.  And we have it available.

It will make you safer and for longer.  And it will help us end the
pandemic faster. 

Now, I know there are some world leaders who say Americans shouldn’t get
a third shot until other countries got their first shots.  I disagree. 
We can take care of America and help the world at the same time. 

In June and July, America administered 50 million shots here in the
United States and we donated 100 million shots to other countries.  That
means that America has donated more vaccine to other countries than
every other country in the world combined.

During the coming months of fall and early winter, we expect to give out
another — about 100 thousand \[million\] boosters, and the United States
will donate more than 200 million additional doses to other countries.

This will keep us on our way to meeting our pledge of more than 600
million vaccine donations — over half a billion.

And I said — as I said before, we’re going to be the arsenal of vaccines
to beat this pandemic as we were the arsenal of democracy to win World
War Two.

So, let me conclude with this: The threat of the Delta virus remains
real.  But we are prepared.  We have the tools.  We can do this.

To all those of who are unvaccinated: Please get vaccinated for yourself
and for your loved ones, your neighborhood and for your community.

And to the rest of America, this is no time to let our guard down.  We
just need to finish the job with science, with facts, and with
confidence. 

And together, as the United States of America, we’ll get this done. 

God bless you all.  And may God protect our troops.  Thank you. 

4:47 P.M. EDT
