---
category: blog
date: '2021-06-04'
modified_time: 2021-06-04 11:06:35-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/blog/2021/06/04/op-ed-deputy-national-security-advisor-daleep-singh-on-supporting-the-asian-americans-and-pacific-islanders-community/
published_time: 2021-06-04 11:05:27-04:00
title: 'Op-Ed: Deputy National Security Advisor Daleep Singh on Supporting the Asian
  Americans and Pacific Islanders Community'
---
 
*By: Deputy National Security Advisor Daleep Singh*

------------------------------------------------------------------------

My story is the story of so many other Indian Americans. In search of a
better life for their kids – and maybe a bit of adventure for themselves
– my parents left India for America in the 1970s. I was born in
Maryland, spent a few years in Chicago, and settled in North Carolina
when I was about seven years old.

I’ve always described my childhood as a happy one. Surrounded by a
loving family, I felt like I was part of something bigger than myself,
and that my life meant something to those around me. I also felt
enormous pride and gratitude in being an American – having the freedom
to find and become my authentic self, and the opportunity to dream big,
even if in my case these were mostly athletic delusions.

At a young age, I also knew that we were different. I remember on the
first day we arrived in Raleigh, our apartment was filled with unopened
boxes. But instead of unpacking, my parents grabbed the phone book,
found three Indian-sounding last names, and invited them over for
dinner. All of them arrived within hours and, from that point on, we
probably shared at least one weekend meal within the Indian community
until I went away for college.

As I got older, I began to understand how much these gatherings meant.
Like anyone else, my parents wanted a space where their traditions and
beliefs were accepted, and that hadn’t always been their experience.
When he first moved to the U.S., my dad – a turbaned Sikh – was told by
his boss: if he wanted to keep his job, he’d need to fit in better. So
that’s what my dad did – he sacrificed part of his identity to provide
for his family. Meanwhile, my mom worked for the Raleigh city
government, and I’ll never forget her coming home in tears after her
boss openly bragged that he was a member of the KKK. He made sure to
remind her of that throughout her years of dedicated but painful service
in Raleigh city government.

I also wanted to feel accepted, but for that to happen as a kid it
sometimes involved compromises that I now regret. I remember feeling
dread in middle school whenever we’d have a substitute teacher, knowing
they would butcher my name, and giving the whole class a good laugh at
my expense. Sometimes I thought the solution was to just own it, so I’d
speak during class with a thick Indian accent. When I think about that
now, I’m ashamed. I made a joke out of my family’s background to deal
with my own insecurity about being different.  
Fast forwarding to the past few years, the rise in hateful attacks
against Asian Americans and other communities of color made me realize
that I was still carrying a lot of memories – painful ones – that felt
heavier over the years. I’d almost forgotten the humiliation of getting
beat up on the back of an elementary school bus for being the “dirty
brown kid with smelly food,” or what it felt like to get told I couldn’t
go on a date with someone in high school because I’m brown.

Much of the reason I’d been able to let these memories go was my deeply
held belief that things were getting better when it came to race; that
my kids would grow up in a different way. So I’ll admit, the slow
progress and setbacks left me angry at times. I suspect many in the
Indian American community feel the same way: we’re tired of watching the
past repeat itself, and we’re exhausted from being quiet.

But to make change, we first have to recognize that we can all do
better, myself included. That means being real about my own privilege as
an Indian American from a middle-class household. I’m not at risk of
being stopped and frisked. My wife and I don’t have to teach our kids
how to survive if they get pulled over by the police. For those of us
who’ve faced prejudice, we also need to check own our bias, and see our
own privileges, if we’re going to do better.

It also means we need to speak out and do our part if we’re going to be
seen as 100%, full-fledged, just-like-you citizens. As an Asian
American, I’m deeply humbled and honored to have the privilege of
serving in President Biden’s administration at a defining moment in our
country’s history, while being a part of the most diverse administration
ever assembled. My experience serving our country bears no resemblance
to my mom’s days in Raleigh city government, but her experience back
then, and recent violence toward Asian Americans, are a constant
reminder to me about the responsibility I have of representing and
standing up for the AAPI community every day in this job.

My role at the White House is to help create a self-reinforcing dynamic
between domestic renewal, American leadership abroad, and national
security. Part of domestic renewal has to do with economics: creating
sustained and inclusive growth in jobs and wages, boosting the
resilience of our critical supply chains, and strengthening our
innovative edge. Another part of domestic renewal involves healing the
wounds of racial injustice and coming together as a society to deliver
on American’s unmatched promise. I don’t have direct policy
responsibility in this area, but it’s central to what President Biden is
trying to deliver, and a big reason why I’m here.

As a final thought, I want to use this platform to send love and support
to my sisters and brothers in the Sikh community who have been a
particular target of harassment, racism, and violence in recent years. I
stand with them today and always.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
