---
date: '2024-01-11'
modified_time: 2024-01-11 12:20:59-05:00
published_time: 2024-01-11 15:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/01/11/president-biden-announces-key-nominees-62/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key\_Nominees"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
the following individuals to serve as key leaders in his Administration:

-   Nelson W. Cunningham, Nominee for Deputy United States Trade
    Representative
-   James R. Ives, Nominee to be Inspector General of the Department of
    the Treasury
-   Stephen Ravas, Nominee to be Inspector General of the Corporation
    for National and Community Service
-   Leonardo Martinez-Diaz, Nominee to be United States Executive
    Director of the International Bank for Reconstruction and
    Development
-   Anne Marie Wagner, Nominee to be a Member of the Federal Labor
    Relations Authority

Also today, the White House will continue renominating candidates whose
nominations were returned to the President at the end of the first
session of the 118<sup>th</sup> Congress. Today’s transmission to the
Senate will include 16 renominations. The White House will continue
transmitting renominations to the Senate in the coming weeks and hopes
the Senate will take action expeditiously.

**<u>Nelson W. Cunningham, Nominee for Deputy United States Trade
Representative</u>**

Nelson W. Cunningham co-founded McLarty Associates in 1998 and helped
lead the firm for 25 years until stepping away last year.  Under
Cunningham’s leadership, McLarty Associates developed into a firm with
global reach and over one hundred employees and advisors in 20 countries
around the world.  Before 1998, Cunningham served in the Clinton White
House as Special Advisor to the President on Western Hemisphere affairs
and as General Counsel at the White House Office of Administration. He
previously served as General Counsel of the Senate Judiciary Committee,
under then-Chairman Joseph R. Biden. 

Before moving to Washington, Cunningham served as an Assistant United
States Attorney in the Southern District of New York from 1988 until
1994, and in 1984 he was a staffer on the successful Senate campaign of
John Kerry. 

Cunningham is active on foreign policy and political matters and
frequently speaks to audiences in the United States and abroad. He is a
frequent commentator on legal and political issues. He serves on
numerous NGO boards, and is Vice Chair of the Business Council for
International Understanding.

**<u>James R. Ives, Nominee to be Inspector General of the Department of
the Treasury</u>**

James R. Ives is a career member of the Senior Executive Service who
currently serves as the Principal Deputy Director of the Defense
Criminal Investigative Service, the criminal investigative arm of the
Department of Defense’s Office of Inspector General (OIG). Ives
possesses over 31 years of combined oversight and law enforcement
experience, to include 14 years of senior executive experience. Prior to
accepting his current position, he served as the Department of Defense
(DOD) OIG’s Deputy Inspector General for Overseas Contingency
Operations. He also served as Assistant Inspector General for
Investigations at the National Aeronautics and Space Administration’s
(NASA) OIG from 2015 through 2021. Before joining NASA OIG, he served
with the DOD OIG for 22 years and held a variety of leadership
positions. In 2019, Ives served on a detail assignment as Acting
Inspector General of the U.S. Government Publishing Office. He also
previously served as a special agent with the U.S. Department of State’s
Diplomatic Security Service, and a reserve special agent with the U.S.
Coast Guard Investigative Service. 

Ives is a graduate of Georgetown University, where he earned a Master of
Policy Management degree, and the State University of New York’s College
at Brockport, where he graduated summa cum laude with a B.S. degree in
Criminal Justice. He is a 2017 graduate of Harvard University’s Senior
Executives Fellows program. He is also an adjunct professorial lecturer
at American University, and an adjunct professor at University of
Maryland’s Global Campus. Ives resides with his wife and son in Northern
Virginia.

**<u>Stephen Ravas, Nominee to be Inspector General of the Corporation
for National and Community Service</u>**

Stephen Ravas joined the Corporation for National and Community Service
(AmeriCorps) Office of the Inspector General (OIG) as Counsel to the
Inspector General in August 2019. He served as Acting Deputy Inspector
General from January 2022 to May 2023.

Prior to joining AmeriCorps OIG, Ravas served as Assistant Counsel to
the Inspector General for the Department of Homeland Security OIG.
There, he was the lead attorney for investigative issues related to
criminal procedure, law enforcement techniques, and the Special Agent
Handbook, and participated in and provided legal counsel for
multi-disciplinary investigations, audits, and inspections. 

Ravas also served as Special Investigative Counsel for the Department of
Commerce OIG, where he focused on administrative and ethics
investigations and was detailed to the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the
Eastern District of Virginia as a Special Assistant United States
Attorney (SAUSA). As a SAUSA, Ravas advised and directed federal agents
in ongoing investigations, and represented the United States in federal
district court and in grand jury proceedings.

Ravas began his legal career as a law clerk for the Hon. Paul D. Borman,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Michigan. He then entered the
private practice of law, representing individuals and Fortune 500
companies in white-collar criminal defense matters, including alleged
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and criminal antitrust violations, and
conducted internal investigations. He holds degrees from James Madison
University and Wayne State Law School, where he served as
Editor-in-Chief of the Wayne Law Review.

**<u>Leonardo Martinez-Diaz, Nominee to be United States Executive
Director of the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development</u>**

Leonardo Martinez-Diaz is Managing Director for Climate Finance in the
Office of the Special Presidential Envoy for Climate at the U.S.
Department of State. Previously, he was Global Director of the
Sustainable Finance Center at the World Resources Institute, a leading
non-profit conducting research on climate and environment. During the
Obama Administration, Martinez-Diaz served as the Deputy Assistant
Secretary for Energy and Environment in the U.S. Department of the
Treasury, as well as Deputy Assistant Secretary for the Western
Hemisphere. Prior to that, he served as Director of the Office of Policy
at the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID). 

Before entering government, Martinez-Diaz was Fellow and Deputy Director
of the Global Economy and Development Program at the Bookings
Institution. He also served as an economist at the International
Monetary Fund and was Director of the High-Level Commission on the
Modernization of World Bank Group Governance. He is author, co-author,
or editor of numerous books, most recently Building a Resilient
Tomorrow: How to Prepare for the Coming Climate Disruption. He is also
author of Globalizing in Hard Times: the Politics of Banking-Sector
Opening in the Emerging World and co-editor, with Lael Brainard, of
Brazil as an Economic Superpower? Understanding Brazil’s Changing Role
in the Global Economy.  

Martinez-Diaz specialized in International Political Economy, receiving
a Masters degree and a Doctorate from the University of Oxford, where he
was a Marshall Scholar. He graduated with honors from Northwestern
University in Evanston, Illinois, with degrees in Economics and
Political Science and was a 1998 Truman Scholar. After his undergraduate
years, he worked in Jakarta, Indonesia as a Luce Fellow where he
conducted research on poverty reduction and trade. 

**<u>Anne Marie Wagner, Nominee to be a Member of the Federal Labor
Relations Authority</u>**

Anne Wagner has been Associate Special Counsel with the Office of
Special Counsel since 2015. Prior to that, she served as Vice Chairman
of the Merit Systems Protection Board (MSPB) after being nominated for
that position by President Obama and confirmed by the Senate in 2009.
Wagner came to the MSPB after serving as General Counsel of the
Personnel Appeals Board of the Government Accountability Office (GAO)
where she had previously sat as a Board Member upon appointment by the
U.S. Comptroller General. She began her career as a staff attorney with
the General Services Administration, after which she went on to become
an Assistant General Counsel for the American Federation of Government
Employees (AFGE), AFL-CIO, the largest Federal sector labor
organization. In her nearly 20 years with AFGE, she led
precedent-setting litigation and handled cases arising under the full
array of laws governing Federal employment.

Wagner graduated from the University of Notre Dame and received her
Juris Doctor from George Washington University. She is a member of the
bar in the District of Columbia, Maryland, and Illinois and is admitted
to practice before various Federal courts, including the U.S. Supreme
Court.

   
   
   

\###
