---
date: '2024-01-22'
published_time: 2024-01-22 19:45:33-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/01/22/readout-of-president-bidens-special-advisor-for-the-americas-and-southcom-commanders-trip-to-ecuador/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of President\_Biden\u2019s Special Advisor for the Americas and SOUTHCOM\
  \ Commander\u2019s Trip to\_Ecuador"
---
 
President Biden’s Special Advisor for the Americas Christopher Dodd
and Commander of the United States Southern Command (SOUTHCOM) General
Laura Richardson met today with President of Ecuador Daniel Noboa and
will meet with other senior Ecuadorian government officials tomorrow to
showcase U.S. support for the country in the wake of a surge in
violence.  The discussions are focused on ongoing commitment to
democratic values and the rule of law, and ways to deepen bilateral
cooperation, including with respect to security, counter drug
cooperation, migration, and economic development.

This week, the United States is facilitating the delivery of over 20,000
bullet proof vests and more than $1 million worth of critical security
and emergency response equipment, including ambulances and defense
logistic support vehicles.  The United States also announced that, in
the coming days, the FBI will increase its personnel in-country to
support the Ecuadorian National Police and Attorney General’s Office. 
In addition, the Department of Homeland Security is deploying personnel
to support the ongoing training of the police and prosecutors; offering
additional support in digital forensics and other analysis critical to
targeting gang members, drug trafficking networks, and corrupt
officials; and providing key training and technical assistance with
respect to protection of executive officials. USAID also is augmenting
support for its municipal security programs, including support for
crisis communications.  Meanwhile, the United States, Ecuador, and other
regional partners continue to advance the goals under the Americas
Partnership for Economic Prosperity initiative launched by President
Biden in June 2022 to help provide greater economic opportunity to
Ecuadorians, which is crucial to addressing the underlying drivers of
insecurity, criminality, and migration.

  
