---
date: '2024-01-25'
modified_time: 2024-01-24 20:40:32-05:00
published_time: 2024-01-25 05:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/01/25/fact-sheet-president-biden-announces-nearly-5-billion-for-major-transportation-projects-nationwide/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: President\_Biden Announces Nearly $5 Billion for Major Transportation\
  \ Projects\_Nationwide"
---
 
Today, President Biden will visit Superior, Wisconsin, where the Blatnik
Bridge connects Wisconsin and Minnesota, to announce nearly $5 billion
in funding for major transportation projects across the country as part
of his Investing in America agenda. A key pillar of Bidenomics, the
President’s Investing in America agenda—including the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law, the CHIPS and Science Act, and the Inflation
Reduction Act—is making long overdue investments in infrastructure,
unleashing a clean energy and manufacturing boom, and creating
good-paying jobs, many of which do not require a college degree. To
date, the Administration has announced over $400 billion in Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law funding for over 40,000 infrastructure projects
across the nation, and has mobilized over $640 billion in private sector
manufacturing and clean energy investments in the United States. And,
since day one of the Biden Administration, over 670,000 construction
jobs and 210,000 clean energy jobs have been created in communities
across the country.

Two years ago, after he signed the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law,
President Biden visited the Blatnik Bridge and highlighted the vital yet
deteriorating bridge as the type of infrastructure that he would rebuild
across the country. Today’s announcement—a transformative $5 billion
investment that includes **$1 billion to replace the Blatnik Bridge
itself**—is a key example of the President following through on that
commitment. Due to its poor condition, the current Blatnik Bridge is
predicted to close by 2030, and this new investment will change that by
expanding weight capacity to accommodate freight, building wider
shoulders to improve safety, and increasing accessibility for
pedestrians and cyclists. During his visit to Wisconsin,
President Biden will highlight the impact of the Blatnik Bridge
investment on people in the community—including small business owners
who rely on timely orders, deliveries, and commutes for their customers
and employees; families that need to cross the bridge safely and with
less traffic; truck drivers whose loads are too heavy for the current
bridge; workers who will be hired on the project, and
more. The President will meet with a small business owner who says his
local business—and the downtown community in Superior—will benefit from
the new Blatnik Bridge.

In addition to the Blatnik Bridge, key projects from today’s
announcement include: replacing the** I-5 Bridge over the Columbia River
between Vancouver, Washington, and Portland, Oregon**, which carries
over 143,000 vehicles per day and no longer meets the needs of commerce
and travel; improving 10 miles of** I-10 through the Gila River Indian
Community and Pinal County** **in Arizona**; making multimodal
improvements in the** I-376 corridor of Pittsburgh**; and reconnecting
communities divided by the** Cross Bronx Expressway in** **New York**,
which displaced residents and separated communities when constructed in
the mid-1900’s. These historic projects will create good-paying jobs,
make our transportation systems safer and more resilient, and unlock
economic opportunity for communities across in every corner of the
country. Overall, half of the funding announced today – nearly $2.8
billion – is going to projects in rural areas. These investments also
build on historic funding that President Biden has announced over the
past year—including $1.7 billion through the Mega and INFRA programs
early last year, $2.1 billion through the Bridge Investment Program, and
major rail announcements at the end of 2023—$16.4 billion to modernize
Amtrak’s Northeast Corridor and $8.2 billion for world-class rail,
including the country’s first high speed rail projects.

Already, the projects funded by previous announcements are hitting major
milestones. For example, thanks to $1.6 billion in funding, construction
to upgrade the existing **Brent-Spence Bridge** and build a new bridge
along this critical freight corridor is expected to begin this year. In
addition, thanks to the $11 billion investment from the Biden-Harris
Administration, construction is now underway to replace the over
100-year-old **Hudson River Tunnel** between New York and New Jersey,
which serves 200,000 passengers daily and is a source of frequent
delays. Early work is now underway to replace the
150-year-old **Frederick Douglass Tunnel** in Baltimore, thanks to $4.7
billion from the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law. Work is also underway to
construct the 10.3-mile **St. Paul Gold Line Bus Rapid Transit** system
that will serve nearly 2 million passengers annually thanks to $240
million in funding. Thanks to $198 million in Bipartisan Infrastructure
Law funding, construction is also ongoing to extend the **Phoenix
Northwest Light Rail **which will serve about 2 million passengers per
year. Finally, due to a $84.5 million investment, upgrades to **Boston
Logan Airport’s Terminal E **are now complete, with increased capacity,
improved energy efficiency, and new passenger waiting areas.  
Funding announced today will support **37 projects across the country,
including: **

-   **$1.06 billion **to replace the **Blatnik
    Bridge** connecting **Superior, Wisconsin with Duluth, Minnesota**.
    The Blatnik Bridge is a 1.5-mile-long bridge that connects Duluth,
    MN, and Superior, WI, often referred to as the “Twin Ports”. The
    current bridge is weight restricted and cannot carry large or heavy
    trucks, causing lengthy detours for regional freight. The
    replacement bridge will increase capacity and create a new
    shared-use path for pedestrians and bicyclists.  
     
-   **$600 million** to replace the over 100-year-old **I-5 Bridge**—**a
    critical connection linking Oregon and Washington** across the
    Columbia River as part of a vital regional, national and
    international trade route. This project will replace the aging
    bridge with a modern, earthquake-resilient, multimodal bridge. It
    will also add safety shoulders and auxiliary lanes, include add
    transit improvements, and create safe and accessible shared use
    paths.  
     
-   **$427 million** for the **Humboldt Offshore Wind
    project** in **California**. The project will establish the first
    offshore wind terminal on the Pacific Coast. The terminal will
    support the transport, assembly, launch, and maintenance of floating
    offshore wind turbines.    
     
-   **$372 million** to replace the 80-year-old **Sagamore Bridge**, one
    of the **Cape Cod** Bridges that spans the Cape Cod Canal and
    provides the only vehicle access to the **Massachusetts** mainland
    from Cape Cod.  
     
-   **$300 million** for the **Louisiana International Terminal
    Project** to construct a new container terminal on the Gulf Coast
    for the Port of New Orleans. The new terminal will be a new
    alternative for larger vessels compared to inland terminals that
    have height restrictions.  
     
-   **$200 million** for the **Hood River White Salmon
    Bridge** in **Oregon and Washington**. The project will replace the
    bridge between Hood River, OR, and White Salmon, WA, which serves as
    a critical link for freight and provides hospital access and a
    wildfire evacuation route. The current bridge is structurally
    deficient, and the replacement will have higher clearance, wider
    lanes, seismic improvements, and a separate bicycle and pedestrian
    pathway.  
     
-   **$150 million** to reconnect communities divided by the **Cross
    Bronx Expressway** between the Harlem River and the Hutchinson River
    Parkway in **New York**—one of the most congested stretches of
    interstate in the U.S. with some of the highest rates of traffic and
    collisions. The project will improve pedestrian, bicycle, and
    transit connections across the highway and along parallel routes,
    expand open space, increase safety on local routes along the
    corridor, and improve traffic management, especially for freight
    vehicles. The Expressway was constructed between 1948 and 1972 and
    divided the borough, displacing residents and separating
    communities.  
     
-   **$95 million** for the **Gila River Indian Community I-10
    Project** in **Arizona**. The project will widen approximately 10
    miles of I-10 in Pinal County from two lanes to three lanes, make
    interchange improvements and build a new interchange, and remove or
    replace low-clearance bridges along the route. The project will
    improve safety, increase capacity, and provide job opportunities for
    the Gila River Indian Community.  
     
-   **$66 million **for the **Mineral County I-90 Improvement
    Project **in **Montana**. The project will reconstruct almost six
    miles of I-90, making resilience, drainage, and safety improvements,
    and replacing three bridges on westbound I-90.   
     
-   **$28 million** for the **Elko Nevada Rail Corridor
    Enhancement** project in **Nevada**. The project will make
    improvements on the Union Pacific Railroad at the Elko Yard. Track
    improvements, infrastructure upgrades, and enhanced signal
    infrastructure will reduce an average of 2.5 hours of delay per
    freight train using the corridor.  
     
-   **$15 million** for the **East River Terminal Berth
    Replacement** project in **Georgia**. The project will replace three
    berths at the Port of Brunswick’s East River Terminal, as well as
    support growing export of wood pellets at the port.

\###
