---
date: '2024-01-31'
published_time: 2024-01-31 07:54:44-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/01/31/readout-of-u-s-eu-trade-and-technology-council-fifth-ministerial-meeting/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of U.S.-EU Trade and Technology Council Fifth Ministerial\_Meeting"
---
 
On Tuesday, January 30, 2024, the U.S.-EU Trade and Technology Council
(TTC) held its fifth ministerial meeting in Washington, D.C.  Secretary
of State Antony Blinken, Secretary of Commerce Gina Raimondo, U.S. Trade
Representative Katherine Tai, and senior National Security Council Staff
were joined by EU TTC co-chairs European Commission Executive Vice
Presidents Margrethe Vestager and Valdis Dombrovskis.  European
Commissioner for Internal Market Thierry Breton also joined the
discussions.  
  
Building on the progress from the May 2023 TTC ministerial meeting in
Lulea, Sweden, the U.S. co-chairs stressed the importance of fortifying
our collective economic security, including by further de-risking and
diversifying of our economies, building resilient supply chains,
employing outbound investment mechanisms to safeguard national
security-related technologies, enhancing and better coordinating our
export control regimes to prevent the exploitation of dual-use
technologies, and jointly countering the use of economic coercion and
non-market policies and practices by authoritarian actors. They also
discussed expanding collaboration to counter the misuse of technology,
including countering foreign information manipulation and interference
(FIMI) and attacks against human rights defenders online while
safeguarding freedom of expression.   
  
The U.S. co-chairs also discussed the importance of expanding
transatlantic cooperation in critical and emerging technologies,
including artificial intelligence (AI), and jointly promoting
innovation, security, and trustworthiness across digital ecosystems,
including for maintenance and repair of network components.  They noted
progress made through the TTC Joint Roadmap on Trustworthy AI and Risk
Management and resolved to continue to promote interoperability in our
emerging approaches to AI governance.  They also noted the quickening
pace of technological innovation and the essential role the TTC plays in
developing responsible rules of the road for critical and emerging
technologies, including creating compatible and interoperable standards
that reinforce the work of international standards development
organizations.  
  
The United States and EU also hosted two stakeholder events on the
margins of the TTC: a “Roundtable on the Legacy Semiconductor Supply
Chain,” where U.S. and EU industry leaders discussed the current state
of the industry, how companies can improve supply chain resilience and
transparency, and how governments can help address non-market policies
and practices that lead to excessive dependency on any one producing
country for legacy semiconductors; and a Transatlantic Initiative for
Sustainable Trade (TIST) Stakeholder Event on “Crafting the
Transatlantic Green Marketplace,” where participants discussed how to
strengthen the transatlantic marketplace as a key factor in the
development of sustainable and net-zero economies on both sides of the
Atlantic.    
  
The TIST stakeholder event also included a workshop on the “Promotion of
Good Quality jobs for a Successful, Just and Inclusive Green
Transition,” which focused on labor and business stakeholders exchanging
best practices and discussion on ensuring good jobs are outcomes of
climate policy and investments. In addition, the United States and
European Union received a briefing by the 6G Smart Networks and Services
Industry Association and the Next G Alliance on their [U.S.-EU Beyond
5G/6G
Roadmap](https://gcc02.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fnextgalliance.org%2Fwp-content%2Fuploads%2F2024%2F01%2FEU-US-Aligned-6G-Roadmap-Joint-Paper.pdf&data=05%7C02%7CSharmaS4%40state.gov%7C3703fe016dc944ec447108dc20fe8dd3%7C66cf50745afe48d1a691a12b2121f44b%7C0%7C0%7C638421524893345748%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C0%7C%7C%7C&sdata=Uh%2BMOPxC9ZV1Sv4pn7iKDWkIXcOD%2BXm89stlo150Yrg%3D&reserved=0),
which will inform efforts by U.S. and EU governments to develop common
vision on 6G.  The United States and EU also welcomed the signing of the
U.S.-EU Joint CyberSafe Products Action Plan on the margins of this TTC.
With this Action Plan, the two partners look to create a transatlantic
marketplace that sets a standard for the cybersecurity of
Internet-connected products, ensuring the devices our citizens use in
their homes and offices are secure.  
  
The co-chairs intend to convene the sixth TTC ministerial meeting in
Belgium in the spring of 2024 to review progress to inform priorities,
identify new areas for collaboration, and further deepen the
transatlantic partnership on shared priorities.

\###
