---
date: '2024-01-25'
modified_time: 2024-01-25 14:18:49-05:00
published_time: 2024-01-25 15:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/01/25/president-biden-announces-key-nominees-64/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key\_Nominees"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
the following individuals to serve as key leaders in his Administration:

-   Tracey Ann Jacobson, Nominee to be Ambassador Extraordinary and
    Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of
    Iraq
-   Patrick J. Fuchs, Nominee to be a Member of the Surface
    Transportation Board

Also today, the White House will continue renominating candidates whose
nominations were returned to the President at the end of the first
session of the 118<sup>th</sup> Congress. Today’s transmission to the
Senate will include 10 renominations. The White House hopes the Senate
will take action expeditiously.

**<u>Tracey Ann Jacobson, Nominee to be Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of
Iraq</u>**

Tracey Jacobson, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of
Career Minister, most recently served as Charge d’Affaires ad interim at
the U.S. Embassy in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. Over the course of her
distinguished career, she has been a U.S. Ambassador on three occasions
– to Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, and Kosovo, and the Deputy Chief of
Mission at the U.S. Embassy in Riga, Latvia. In addition to senior
leadership roles overseas, Jacobson served as the Principal Deputy
Assistant Secretary in the State Department’s Bureau of International
Organization Affairs and as the National Foreign Affairs Training
Center’s (FSI) Dean of the School of Professional and Area Studies and
then as the Deputy Director. At the National Security Council, Jacobson
was the Deputy Executive Secretary and Senior Director for
Administration.

Jacobson earned her B.A. degree from Johns Hopkins University and her
M.A. degree from the School of Advanced International Studies, also at
Johns Hopkins. She is the recipient of multiple awards from the State
Department, two Presidential Rank Awards, and the Order for Peace,
Democracy and Humanism “Ibrahim Rugova” (Kosovo).

**<u>**<u>Patrick J. Fuchs, Nominee to be a Member of the Surface
Transportation Board</u>**</u>**

Patrick J. Fuchs has served as a Member of the Surface Transportation
Board since January 2019. While on the Board, he has advanced
transportation policies that address unreasonable practices and
inadequate service, adjudicated railroad transactions that generate new
capital investments and routing options, and streamlined inefficient
processes that unduly burden the public. Before his appointment, Fuchs
served as a senior professional staff member working on surface
transportation and maritime issues for the United States Senate
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation. Fuchs played an
integral role in the development and enactment of significant railroad
legislation, including the reform of railroad infrastructure programs
and the first reauthorization of the Surface Transportation Board since
its creation in 1996. Before his time with the Senate, he was a policy
analyst and Presidential Management Fellow at the Office of Management
and Budget, where he managed railroad and maritime regulatory reviews.
Fuchs also served at the U.S. Department of State, where he received the
Meritorious Honor Award for extraordinary contributions to substantive
economic analysis. A Wisconsin native, Fuchs earned a B.A. with
distinction in economics and political science and an M.P.A. from the
University of Wisconsin, where he received the Director’s Achievement
Award for his outstanding academic record.

   
   
   

\###
