---
date: '2024-01-18'
modified_time: 2024-01-18 16:00:40-05:00
published_time: 2024-01-18 17:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/01/18/president-biden-announces-key-appointments-to-boards-and-commissions-32/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key Appointments to Boards and\_Commissions"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Biden announced his intent to appoint the
following individuals to serve in key roles:

-   Doreen Patricia Greenwald, Member, Federal Salary Council
-   Juan A. Sabater, Member, Financial Oversight and Management Board
    for Puerto Rico
-   Timothy D. Murray, Member, National Museum and Library Services
    Board
-   Gregory C. Simon, Member, President’s Commission on White House
    Fellowships
-   Daniel Mathews, Member, Public Buildings Reform Board

**<u>Federal Salary Council</u>**

The Federal Salary Council is an advisory board that provides
recommendations on the federal employee locality pay program to the
President’s Pay Agent. These recommendations include the establishment
or modification of pay localities, the coverage of salary surveys used
to set locality pay, the process for making pay comparisons, and the
level of comparability payments that should be made. The council
consists of a total of nine seats: three seats are meant to be filled by
experts in pay policy and six seats are reserved for representatives of
federal government employee organizations.

**Doreen Patricia Greenwald, Member, Federal Salary Council**

Doreen Patricia Greenwald was elected National President of the National
Treasury Employees Union (NTEU) in August 2023. As the NTEU’s top
elected official, she is the spokesperson for the union representing
NTEU on issues important to union members and federal employees.
Greenwald was a frontline federal employee for 35 years. She previously
served as the Special Assistant to the National NTEU President and was
elected National Executive Vice President in 2022. Greenwald spent her
federal career at the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), where she worked
as a revenue officer and served for 14 years as President of NTEU
Chapter 1, IRS Wisconsin.

**<u>Financial Oversight and Management Board for Puerto Rico</u>**

The Financial Oversight and Management Board for Puerto Rico was created
under the Puerto Rico Oversight, Management and Economic Stability Act
of 2016. The Board consists of seven members appointed by the President
and one ex officio member designated by the Governor of Puerto Rico. The
Board is tasked with working with the people and government of Puerto
Rico to create the necessary foundation for economic growth and to
restore opportunity to the people of Puerto Rico.

**Juan A. Sabater, Member, Financial Oversight and Management Board for
Puerto Rico**

Juan A. Sabater is a Partner and Co-President of Valor Equity Partners,
a growth focused private equity firm with approximately $16 billion in
assets under management and recognized for the operational support it
provides to the companies in which it invests. He is a member of all
Valor Investment Committees. Sabater currently serves on the boards of
directors of Harmony Biosciences, Addepar, and Premise Data, and as a
board observer for Dataminr and BlueVoyant, all companies in which Valor
is an investor. Prior to Valor, Sabater was a Managing Director at
Goldman Sachs in the firm’s Investment Banking Division. Following
Goldman Sachs, Sabater partnered with a law school friend to grow and
scale Augeo Affinity Marketing. Together with his business partner,
Sabater grew Augeo into a leading private company in the engagement and
loyalty industry. Augeo today works with many Fortune 500 companies in
the U.S. and internationally, managing programs reaching millions of
employees and consumers globally. In 2014, Augeo partnered with the
Obama-Biden Administration to create GamePlan4me.com, aimed at
encouraging young people to obtain healthcare, with athletes
articulating why healthcare is important. Sabater currently is Co-Chair
of the Board of Augeo. 

Sabater serves on the boards of academic, arts, charitable, and
professional organizations, including The Frick Collection, Girls Who
Code, Lenox Hill Neighborhood House (where he serves as Chair), and the
National Association of Investment Companies. He also served as Co-Chair
of the Board of The Hewitt School, an independent girls’ school in New
York City, and on the board of the New America Alliance. He was one of
the founding board members of My Brother’s Keeper Alliance, an
initiative addressing the opportunity gaps faced by young men of color
and now part of the Obama Foundation. Sabater was appointed by President
Biden to the Board of Visitors to the U.S. Military Academy. In Puerto
Rico, Sabater serves on the board of Endeavor Puerto Rico, which aims to
transform the entrepreneurial ecosystem of Puerto Rico by integrating
founders into a global community, and served on the boards of Invest
Puerto Rico and Foundation for Puerto Rico. Sabater was also a founding
member of Private Equity for Puerto Rico, which raised funds in 2017 for
hurricane relief following Hurricane Maria. Sabater holds an A.B. in
History from Princeton University, studied history at the University of
Oxford, Mansfield College, and holds a J.D. from Stanford Law School. He
is formerly an officer in the United States Army Reserve. Sabater, who
was born in Puerto Rico and lived his childhood on the island, resides
with his wife and three daughters in New York City. 

**<u>National Museum and Library Services Board</u>**  
The National Museum and Library Services Board advises the Institute of
Museum and Library Services on general policies with respect to the
duties, powers, and authority of the agency relating to museum, library,
and information services, as well as the annual selection of National
Medals recipients.

**Timothy D. Murray, Member, National Museum and Library Services
Board**

Timothy D. Murray served as a Special Collections Librarian for over
forty years. He has worked in the Special Collections departments of the
University of Buffalo, Washington University in St. Louis, and the
University of Delaware. He served as Head of Special Collections at
Delaware from 1987 to 2022. A specialist in 20<sup>th</sup> century
literary collections, Murray has curated exhibitions, written, taught,
and lectured on figures such as Samuel Beckett, Paul Bowles, Kay Boyle,
Ernest Hemingway, Abraham Lincoln, Hugh MacDiarmid, Ishmael Reed, and
Tennessee Williams. From 2008 to 2009 he served as the University of
Delaware’s representative on the Delaware Abraham Lincoln Bicentennial
Commission.

Murray has been active and held leadership positions in the Rare Books
and Manuscripts Section of the American Library Association and the
Society of American Archivists. In 2011, he was inducted as a fellow of
the Society of American Archivists. In his award statement he was
celebrated for his work as a mentor to students and young librarians,
his expertise as an archivist and Special Collections librarian, and for
his ability and willingness to bridge the gap between archives and
librarianship.

**<u>President’s Commission on White House Fellowships</u>**

The President’s Commission on White House Fellowships is composed of
outstanding citizens who reflect the diversity and strength of America
while representing a broad range of backgrounds, experiences, and
professions. Commissioners are responsible for recommending a group of
candidates to the President for selection as White House Fellows, a
prestigious program for leadership and public service that provides
young Americans experience working at the highest levels of the federal
government.

**Gregory C. Simon, Member, President’s Commission on White House
Fellowships**

Gregory Simon began his government service as General Counsel and then
Staff Director of the House Science, Space and Technology Subcommittee
on investigations and Oversight. He served as the Legislative Director
for then-Senator Al Gore (D-TN) and was commissioned by President
Clinton to be Vice President Gore’s Chief Domestic Policy Advisor. He
next served in the White House as the Executive Director of the White
House Cancer Moonshot Task Force, under then-Vice President Biden. After
leaving office in 2017, Vice President Biden and Dr. Biden asked Simon
to launch and serve as the President of the Biden Cancer Initiative, an
independent nonprofit organization.

Outside of his government service, Simon started Simon Strategies, LLC,
an international consulting firm in science and technology policy. He
launched two non-profits, FasterCures and the Melanoma Research
Alliance. FasterCures is an organization devoted to speeding the pace of
medical research in all diseases, and the Melanoma Research Alliance is
the largest non-profit funder of melanoma research worldwide, which
co-funded the work of Dr. James Allison who won the Nobel Prize in 2018.

Simon was born in Blytheville, Arkansas and received his B.A. from the
University of Arkansas and his law degree from the University of
Washington. He is married to Margo L. Reid and has two children, Kallile
S. Simon and Michael Reid Simon, and two grandchildren, Charlie Walsh
Simon and Jack Burns Simon.

**<u>Public Buildings Reform Board</u>**

The Public Buildings Reform Board was established under the Federal
Assets Sale & Transfer Act of 2016 as an independent agency to identify
opportunities for the Federal government to significantly reduce its
inventory of civilian real property and thereby reduce costs.

**Daniel Mathews, Member, Public Buildings Reform Board**

Daniel Mathews is currently President of Mathews Associates LLC, where
he advises companies on a variety of real estate issues. Mathews also
serves on the Industry Advisory Group of the U.S. State Department’s
Bureau of Overseas Buildings Operations, where he and other noted
industry professionals advise the State Department on how to provide the
most effective facilities for United States diplomacy abroad. In
addition, Mathews is a board member of both the Federal Real Property
Association and the National Federal Development Association.

Mathews has extensive experience with federal real estate issues and
served as Commissioner of the U.S. General Services Administration’s
Public Buildings Service, where he led the 375 million square foot
civilian real estate portfolio of the federal government, over 5,000
employees, and a $12 billion budget. Prior to that, he was the Staff
Director of the U.S. House of Representatives Subcommittee on Economic
Development, Public Buildings, and Emergency Management. He worked on
several major legislative initiatives involving public buildings,
emergency management, and transportation, including most recently the
Federal Assets Sale and Transfer Act of 2016, which established the
Public Buildings Reform Board. Mathews graduated from Georgetown
University with a degree in government and philosophy. He is married
with two daughters and resides in Alexandria, Virginia.

\###
