---
date: '2024-01-08'
published_time: 2024-01-08 17:05:19-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/01/08/readout-of-vice-president-harriss-call-with-crown-prince-salman-bin-hamad-al-khalifa-of-bahrain-2/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of Vice President Harris\u2019s Call with Crown Prince Salman bin\
  \ Hamad Al Khalifa of\_Bahrain"
---
 
Vice President Kamala Harris spoke today with Crown Prince and Prime
Minister Salman bin Hamad Al Khalifa of Bahrain. They discussed the
situation in Gaza, including our shared efforts to protect civilians and
increase humanitarian assistance. They further underscored the need to
stabilize the Middle East region, and discussed mutual efforts to
bolster regional deterrence and prevent regional escalation. The Vice
President and Crown Prince condemned the Houthi attacks against
commercial vessels in the Red Sea, which pose a direct threat to freedom
of navigation and global trade in one of the world’s most critical
waterways. The Vice President underscored that Iranian-backed Houthi
actions are unlawful, reckless, and put innocent lives at risk. The Vice
President and Crown Prince emphasized the broad consensus as reflected
by the UN Security Council statement of condemnation on December 1,
2023, followed by the statement of condemnation from 44 countries on
December 19, 2023, and formation of Operation Prosperity Guardian, an
international naval coalition of more than 20 countries, including
Bahrain, that are defensively patrolling the Red Sea to protect maritime
traffic.  They also discussed the important warning statement last week,
endorsed by 14 countries, including Bahrain, calling on the Houthis to
cease their unlawful attacks against commercial vessels. The Vice
President reaffirmed the close and enduring bilateral relationship
between the United States and Bahrain and our close cooperation on
regional security, defense, intelligence, and economic ties as well as
expanding cooperation in the fields of commerce, science, and
technology, including through the implementation of the “Comprehensive
Security Integration and Prosperity Agreement” (C-SIPA) that was signed
last year.    

\###
