---
date: '2024-01-30'
published_time: 2024-01-30 15:55:49-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/01/30/readout-of-the-u-s-prc-bilateral-counternarcotics-working-group-inaugural-meeting/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of the U.S.-PRC Bilateral Counternarcotics Working Group Inaugural\_\
  Meeting"
---
 
On January 30, the United States and the People’s Republic of China
launched their bilateral Counternarcotics Working Group – a critical
mechanism going forward for coordinating bilateral efforts to counter
the global manufacturing and trafficking of illicit synthetic drugs,
including fentanyl. The U.S.-PRC Counternarcotics Working Group is a key
outcome of President Biden’s and President Xi Jinping’s decision,
announced at the Leaders’ Summit in Woodside, California in November
2023, to resume bilateral cooperation on counternarcotics.  By working
to disrupt the flow of fentanyl this effort aims to save lives in the
United States and around the world and halt the corruption and violence
of drug traffickers.

The two sides emphasized the need to coordinate on law enforcement
actions; address the misuse of precursor chemicals, pill presses, and
related equipment to manufacture illicit drugs; target the illicit
financing of transnational criminal organization networks; and engage in
multilateral fora.  The delegations further discussed the importance of
regular sharing of information to ensure a common understanding of the
dynamic illicit threat posed by synthetic drugs. 

The delegation was led by Deputy Assistant to the President and Deputy
Homeland Security Advisor Jennifer Daskal and included representatives
from the Department of Homeland Security, Department of Justice,
Department of State, the Department of the Treasury, and the White House
Office of National Drug Control Policy. 

\###
