---
date: '2024-01-14'
modified_time: 2024-01-14 15:47:38-05:00
published_time: 2024-01-14 16:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/01/14/statement-from-president-joe-biden-marking-100-days-of-captivity-for-hostages-in-gaza/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement from President Joe\_Biden Marking 100 Days of Captivity for Hostages\
  \ in\_Gaza"
---
 
Today, we mark a devastating and tragic milestone—100 days of captivity
for the more than 100 innocent people, including as many as 6 Americans,
who are still held being hostage by Hamas in Gaza. For 100 days, they
have existed in fear for their lives, not knowing what tomorrow will
bring. For 100 days, their families have lived in agony, praying for the
safe return of their loved ones. And for each of those 100 days, the
hostages and their families have been at the forefront of my mind as my
national security team and I have worked non-stop to try to secure their
freedom.

Since Hamas brutally attacked Israel on October 7, my Administration has
pursued aggressive diplomacy to bring the hostages home.  We saw the
first results of that effort late October, when two Americans were
reunited with their loved ones.  In November, working in close
coordination with Qatar, Egypt, and Israel, we brokered a seven day
pause in fighting that resulted in the release of 105 hostages—including
a 4-year-old American child—and allowed us to surge additional vital
humanitarian aid into Gaza. I was deeply engaged to secure, sustain, and
extend that deal. Sadly, Hamas walked away after just one week. But the
United States and our partners have not given up. Secretary Blinken was
back in the region this past week seeking a path forward for a deal to
free all those still being held.  I look forward to maintaining close
contact with my counterparts in Qatar, Egypt, and Israel to return all
hostages home and back to their families.  

I will never forget the grief and the suffering I have heard in my
meetings with the families of the American hostages. No one should have
to endure even one day of what they have gone through, much less 100. 
On this terrible day, I again reaffirm my pledge to all the hostages and
their families—we are with you. We will never stop working to bring
Americans home.

\###
