---
date: '2025-09-26'
published_time: 2025-09-26 15:40:16-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/research/2025/09/expansion-of-hsa-eligibility-under-obbb-act-to-improve-marketplace-coverage-affordability-and-access/
tags: research
title: Expansion of HSA Eligibility Under OBBB Act to Improve Marketplace Coverage,
  Affordability, and Access
---
 
<a
href="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/09/Expansion-of-HSA-Eligibility-Under-OBBA-1.pdf"
id="wp-block-file--media-567031eb-eb17-4788-8dcf-51ce41f30f15">Expansion
of HSA Eligibility Under OBBA</a><a
href="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/09/Expansion-of-HSA-Eligibility-Under-OBBA-1.pdf"
aria-describedby="wp-block-file--media-567031eb-eb17-4788-8dcf-51ce41f30f15"
download="">Download</a>

Executive Summary

Prior to the One Big Beautiful Bill Act (OBBB), only some
High-Deductible Health Plans (HDHPs) were considered Health Savings
Account (HSA) eligible. Catastrophic health plans were not defined as
HDHPs and were therefore, not HSA eligible. In 2025 only 2% of
HealthCare.gov Marketplace enrollees selected HSA‑eligible plans—a sharp
decline from 7% in 2020 (Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services
2025a). Effective January 1, 2026, the OBBB reclassifies Bronze and
Catastrophic ACA Marketplace plans as qualifying HDHPs, enabling
millions more enrollees to open and contribute to HSAs without having to
change insurance plans (Andrews, 2025). Approximately 30% of Marketplace
enrollees selected Bronze plans during the 2025 OEP—an estimated 7.27
million people (Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services 2025b).
Catastrophic enrollment, while much smaller (54,000) because of highly
restrictive enrollment criteria, adds to this total, making an
additional 7.3 million Americans eligible for HSAs at current enrollment
levels.

On September 3, 2025, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services
(CMS) announced changes to catastrophic enrollment processes that will
further expand the number of Americans eligible for HSAs. Previously,
catastrophic plans were restricted to those under 30 years old or
individuals who qualify for a hardship exemption. CMS has expanded
eligibility for those over 30 to qualify for catastrophic plans through
the Obamacare law’s hardship enrollment pathway. These expansions in
catastrophic eligibility will likely increase enrollment by several
million more. We estimate the additional enrollment of 3 million in
catastrophic plans coupled with the expansion of HSA eligibility for
bronze and catastrophic plans, will increase the number of Americans
eligible for an HSA to 10 million.
