---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-02-04'
modified_time: 2021-02-05 12:28:29-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/02/04/executive-order-on-rebuilding-and-enhancing-programs-to-resettle-refugees-and-planning-for-the-impact-of-climate-change-on-migration/
published_time: 2021-02-04 19:58:04-05:00
title: "Executive Order on Rebuilding and Enhancing Programs to Resettle Refugees\
  \ and Planning for the Impact of Climate Change on\_Migration"
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, including the Immigration and
Nationality Act, 8 U.S.C. 1101 *et seq*., I hereby order as follows:

**Section 1.  Policy.  **The long tradition of the United States as a
leader in refugee resettlement provides a beacon of hope for persecuted
people around the world, promotes stability in regions experiencing
conflict, and facilitates international collaboration to address the
global refugee crisis.  Through the United States Refugee Admissions
Program (USRAP), the Federal Government, cooperating with private
partners and American citizens in communities across the country,
demonstrates the generosity and core values of our Nation, while
benefitting from the many contributions that refugees make to our
country.  Accordingly, it shall be the policy of my Administration that:

(a)  USRAP and other humanitarian programs shall be administered in a
manner that furthers our values as a Nation and is consistent with our
domestic law, international obligations, and the humanitarian purposes
expressed by the Congress in enacting the Refugee Act of 1980, Public
Law 96-212.

(b)  USRAP should be rebuilt and expanded, commensurate with global need
and the purposes described above. 

(c)  Delays in administering USRAP and other humanitarian programs are
counter to our national interests, can raise grave humanitarian
concerns, and should be minimized.

(d)  Security vetting for USRAP applicants and applicants for other
humanitarian programs should be improved to be more efficient,
meaningful, and fair, and should be complemented by sound methods of
fraud detection to ensure program integrity and protect national
security.

(e)  Although access to United States humanitarian programs is generally
discretionary, the individuals applying for immigration benefits under
these programs must be treated with dignity and respect, without
improper discrimination on the basis of race, religion, national origin,
or other grounds, and should be afforded procedural safeguards.

(f)  United States humanitarian programs should be administered in a
manner that ensures transparency and accountability and reflects the
principle that reunifying families is in the national interest.

(g)  My Administration shall seek opportunities to enhance access to the
refugee program for people who are more vulnerable to persecution,
including women, children, and other individuals who are at risk of
persecution related to their gender, gender expression, or sexual
orientation.

(h)  Executive departments and agencies (agencies) should explore the
use of all available authorities for humanitarian protection to assist
individuals for whom USRAP is unavailable.

(i)  To meet the challenges of restoring and expanding USRAP, the United
States must innovate, including by effectively employing technology and
capitalizing on community and private sponsorship of refugees, while
continuing to partner with resettlement agencies for reception and
placement.

(j)  The Special Immigrant Visa (SIV) programs for Iraqi and Afghan
allies provide humanitarian protection to nationals of Iraq and
Afghanistan experiencing an ongoing, serious threat because they
provided faithful and valuable service to the United States, including
its troops serving in those countries.  The Federal Government should
ensure that these important programs are administered without undue
delay.

**Sec. 2.  Revocation, Rescission, and Reporting. ** (a)  Executive
Order 13815 of October 24, 2017 (Resuming the United States Refugee
Admissions Program With Enhanced Vetting Capabilities), and Executive
Order 13888 of September 26, 2019 (Enhancing State and Local Involvement
in Refugee Resettlement), are revoked.

(b)  The Presidential Memorandum of March 6, 2017 (Implementing
Immediate Heightened Screening and Vetting of Applications for Visas and
Other Immigration Benefits, Ensuring Enforcement of All Laws for Entry
Into the United States, and Increasing Transparency Among Departments
and Agencies of the Federal Government and for the American People), is
revoked.

(c)  Within 90 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of State
and the Secretary of Homeland Security shall provide a report to the
President, through the Assistant to the President for National Security
Affairs (APNSA), describing all agency actions, including memoranda or
guidance documents, that were taken or issued in reliance on or in
furtherance of the directives revoked by subsections (a) and (b) of this
section.  This report shall include recommendations regarding whether
each action should be maintained, reversed, or modified, consistent with
applicable law and as appropriate for the fair, efficient, and secure
administration of the relevant humanitarian program or otherwise in the
national interest. 

**Sec. 3.  Special Immigrant Visas for Iraqi and Afghan Allies.**  (a) 
Within 180 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of State, in
consultation with the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Homeland
Security, shall complete a review of the Iraqi and Afghan SIV programs
and submit a report to the President with recommendations to address any
concerns identified.  The report shall include:

(i)    an assessment of agency compliance with existing law governing
the SIV programs, including program eligibility requirements and
procedures for administrative review;

(ii)   an assessment of whether there are undue delays in meeting
statutory benchmarks for timely adjudication of applications, including
due to insufficient staffing levels;

(iii)  a plan to provide training, guidance, and oversight with respect
to the National Visa Center’s processing of SIV applications;

(iv)   a plan to track the progress of the Senior Coordinators as
provided under section 1245 of the Refugee Crisis in Iraq Act of 2007
(RCIA), subtitle C of title XII of Public Law 110-181, and section
602(b)(2)(D)(ii)(II) of the Afghan Allies Protection Act of 2009 (AAPA),
title VI of division F of Public Law 111-8, as amended; and

(v)    an assessment of whether adequate guidelines exist for
reconsidering or reopening applications in appropriate circumstances and
consistent with applicable law.

(b)  The Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary of
Defense, shall also direct a review of the procedures for Chief of
Mission approval of applications with the aim of, as appropriate and
consistent with applicable law:

(i)    ensuring existing procedures and guidance are sufficient to
permit prospective applicants a fair opportunity to apply and
demonstrate eligibility;

(ii)   issuing guidance that would address situations where an
applicant’s employer is unable or unwilling to provide verification of
the applicant’s “faithful and valuable service,” and provide for
alternative forms of verification;

(iii)  revising requirements to facilitate the ability of applicants to
demonstrate the existence of a qualifying contract with the United
States Government and require that the supervisor verifying the
applicant’s “faithful and valuable service” be a United States citizen
or national;

(iv)   ensuring that applicants are not prejudiced by delays in
verifying their employment; and 

(v)    implementing anti-fraud measures to ensure program integrity.

(c)  Within 180 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of State
shall submit to the President the results of the review described in
subsection of this section.

\(d\)  Within 180 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of
State, in consultation with the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary
of Homeland Security, shall conduct a review and submit a report to the
President identifying whether additional populations not currently
provided for under section 1059 of the National Defense Authorization
Act for Fiscal Year 2006, Public Law 109-163, section 1244 of the RCIA,
or section 602 of the AAPA are at risk as a result of their faithful and
valuable service to the United States Government.  The review should
also evaluate whether it would be appropriate to seek legislation that
would create a SIV program for individuals, regardless of nationality,
who faithfully assisted the United States Government in conflict areas
for at least 1 year or made exceptional contributions in a shorter
period and have experienced or are experiencing an ongoing serious
threat as a result of their service.

(e)  Within 180 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of State
and the Secretary of Homeland Security shall ensure that appropriate
policies and procedures related to the SIV programs are publicly
available on their respective agency’s websites, and that any revisions
to such policies and procedures in the future are made publicly
available on those websites within 30 days of issuance.    

**Sec. 4.  Steps to Improve the Efficacy, Integrity, Security, and
Transparency of USRAP. ** (a)  Consistent with the policy set forth in
section 1 of this order and to facilitate this order’s effective and
expeditious implementation:

(i)    The APNSA shall designate a National Security Council Senior
Director to be responsible for coordinating the agencies and vetting
partners involved in USRAP.

(ii)   The Secretary of State shall designate a senior-level employee to
have primary responsibility for overseeing refugee application
processing, consistent with applicable law.

(iii)  The Secretary of Homeland Security shall designate a senior-level
employee to have primary responsibility for coordinating the review and
any revision of policies and procedures regarding the vetting and
adjudication of USRAP refugee applicants, including follow-to-join
refugee applicants and post-decisional processing, consistent with
applicable law. 

(iv)   The Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall assign
a team of technology, process, and data experts from the United States
Digital Service to assist agencies in streamlining application
processing, improving the automation and effectiveness of security
vetting and fraud detection, and strengthening data-driven
decision-making.

(b)  Within 30 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of State
and the Secretary of Homeland Security shall provide the President a
report on the fraud detection measures in place for USRAP.  The report
shall also include a plan to enhance fraud detection within components
at both agencies and recommendations for the development of new
anti-fraud programs, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law.

(c)  The Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation with the
Secretary of State, shall promptly consider taking all appropriate
actions, consistent with applicable law, to expand refugee vetting and
adjudication capacity, including by:

(i)   developing more efficient processes to capture and share refugee
applicant biometric data; and

(ii)  permitting the use of video and audio teleconferencing to conduct
refugee interviews and establishing the necessary infrastructure to do
so. 

(d)  To increase refugee adjudication capacity, the Office of Personnel
Management shall, consistent with applicable law, support the use of all
hiring authorities, including expanded use of direct hiring authority,
for positions associated with the adjudication of refugee applications.

(e)  Within 30 days of the date of this order, the heads of all agencies
involved in the Security Advisory Opinion process and other inter-agency
vetting processes for refugee applicants, including follow-to-join
refugee applicants, shall submit data to the National Vetting Governance
Board on the number of staff performing refugee security vetting, the
thresholds for checks, and the rates at which checks have returned an
objection.  Such data shall be disaggregated by age range, gender, and
nationality of the refugee applicant.  The National Vetting Governance
Board shall meet to consider if and how agency processes and staffing
levels should change to improve security reviews and make refugee
arrivals more efficient, and shall share any conclusions and
recommendations with the heads of relevant agencies, including the
Director of the Office of Management and Budget, in order to inform
potential resourcing strategies where necessary.

(f)  Within 60 days of the date of this order, agencies responsible for
the Security Advisory Opinion process shall meet to consider proposals
from member agencies to adjust the list of countries and other criteria
that require a Security Advisory Opinion for a refugee case.

(g)  The Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation with the
Secretary of State, shall consider whether to promulgate regulations and
any other policies, including internal oversight mechanisms, to ensure
the quality, integrity, efficiency, and fairness of the adjudication
process for USRAP applicants, while also taking due account of the
challenges facing refugee applicants.  The Secretary of Homeland
Security, in consultation with the Secretary of State, should consider
adopting regulations or policies, as appropriate and consistent with
applicable law, that:

(i)    develop mechanisms to synthesize reliable, detailed, and current
country conditions that may be relied upon, where appropriate, to make
specific factual and legal determinations necessary for the adjudication
of refugee applications from individuals or from individuals within a
designated group of applicants;  

(ii)   ensure that refugee applicants have timely access to their own
application records;

(iii)  permit refugee applicants to have a representative at their
interview at no cost to the United States Government; and

(iv)   ensure, when refugee applications are denied for non-security or
non-fraud-based reasons, an applicant is given a short explanation
describing the basis for the denial, so that the applicant has a
meaningful opportunity to present additional evidence and to request a
review of the decision.

(h)  The Secretary of State and the Secretary of Homeland Security shall
provide the President, through the APNSA, a report describing any action
taken pursuant to subsection (g) of this section within 180 days of the
date such action is taken.

\(i\)  The Secretary of Homeland Security shall ensure that adjudicators
are trained in the standards governing refugee claims of women,
children, and other individuals who are more vulnerable to persecution
due to their age, gender, gender expression, or sexual orientation.

(j)  The Secretary of State and the Secretary of Homeland Security shall
consider taking actions, as appropriate and consistent with applicable
law, to recognize as “spouses” for purposes of derivative status through
USRAP individuals who are in committed life partnerships but who are
unable to marry or to register their marriage due to restrictions in the
law or practices of their country of origin, including for individuals
in same-sex, interfaith, or camp-based marriages.  The Secretary of
State and the Secretary of Homeland Security shall provide the President
a report, through the APNSA, describing any action taken pursuant to
this subsection within 180 days of the date such action is taken.

(k)  Within 120 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of State
and the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall, as appropriate and
consistent with applicable law, deliver a plan to the President, through
the APNSA, to enhance the capacity of USRAP to welcome refugees by
expanding the use of community sponsorship and co-sponsorship models
by refugee resettlement agencies, and by entering into new
public-private partnerships.

(l)  The Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary of
Homeland Security, shall consider ways to expand mechanisms under which
non-governmental organizations with direct access to and knowledge of
refugees abroad in camps or other settings could identify and directly
refer to USRAP particularly vulnerable individuals who have a strong
possibility of qualifying for admission to the United States
as refugees.

(m)  Within 180 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of State
and the Secretary of Homeland Security shall take all appropriate steps,
taking into account necessary safeguards for program integrity, to
ensure that the current policies and procedures related to USRAP are
publicly available on their respective websites, and that any new or
revised policies and procedures are made publicly available on their
websites within 30 days of their adoption. 

\(n\)  Within 180 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of
State, in consultation with the Secretary of Homeland Security, and as
appropriate and consistent with applicable law, shall develop options
for improving USRAP applicants’ ability to access relevant material from
their case files on an expedited basis to inform timely appeals
from adverse decisions.

**Sec. 5.  Improving Performance.**  (a)  The Secretary of State, in
consultation with the Attorney General and the Secretary of Homeland
Security, shall develop and ensure adherence to a plan that addresses
USRAP processing backlogs.  In developing this plan, the Secretary of
Homeland Security, in consultation with the Secretary of State, the
Attorney General, and the Director of National Intelligence, and in
collaboration with the National Vetting Governance Board and United
States Digital Service, shall conduct a review of refugee security
vetting processes and develop recommendations to increase their
efficiency, fairness, and effectiveness, consistent with the
humanitarian goals of USRAP and the national security and foreign policy
interests of the United States.

(b)  The plan and review described in subsection (a) of this section
shall also:

(i)   examine whether existing vetting processes, including the Security
Advisory Opinion process, can be improved to increase efficiency and
provide more effective security reviews; and

(ii)  seek to bring national average processing times within the period
described in 8 U.S.C. 1571(b).

(c)  Within 120 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of State,
in consultation with the Attorney General, the Secretary of Homeland
Security, and the Director of National Intelligence, shall submit to the
President the plan described in subsection (a) of this section,
including the Secretary’s recommendations for process improvements.

**Sec. 6.  Climate Change and Migration.  **Within 180 days of the date
of this order, the APNSA, in consultation with the Secretary of State,
the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Homeland Security, the
Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development,
and the Director of National Intelligence, shall prepare and submit to
the President a report on climate change and its impact on migration,
including forced migration, internal displacement, and planned
relocation.

This report shall include, at a minimum, discussion of the international
security implications of climate-related migration; options for
protection and resettlement of individuals displaced directly or
indirectly from climate change; mechanisms for identifying such
individuals, including through referrals; proposals for how these
findings should affect use of United States foreign assistance to
mitigate the negative impacts of climate change; and opportunities
to work collaboratively with other countries, international
organizations and bodies, non-governmental organizations, and localities
to respond to migration resulting directly or indirectly from climate
change.  The APNSA shall work with appropriate agencies to ensure that
the report, or a summary thereof, is made publicly available.

**Sec. 7.  General Provisions.**  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:

\(i\)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or
agency, or the head thereof; or

\(ii\)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

\(b\)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.

\(c\)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

    JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.      
