---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-02-03'
modified_time: 2021-02-04 12:41:16-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/02/03/proclamation-on-national-teen-dating-violence-awareness-and-prevention-month-2021/
published_time: 2021-02-03 18:20:39-05:00
title: "A Proclamation on National Teen Dating Violence Awareness and Prevention Month,\_\
  2021"
---
 
This February, during National Teen Dating Violence Awareness and
Prevention Month, we stand with those who have known the pain and
isolation of an abusive relationship, and we recommit to ending the
cycle of teen dating violence that affects too many of our young
people. 

Together, it’s on all of us to raise the national awareness about teen
dating violence and promote safe and healthy relationships. 

Dating violence transcends gender, race, religion, ethnicity, sexual
orientation, and socioeconomic status.  It takes many forms, among them
physical, sexual, and emotional abuse, bullying, and shaming, which can
occur in person or through electronic communication and social media. 
The spiral of violent dating relationships can lead to depression,
anxiety, drug and alcohol use, as well as suicidal thoughts.  Victims,
especially young women, transgender, and gender nonconforming youth who
face higher rates of violence, may suffer lifelong consequences.  Many
young people do not report the abuse for fear of retribution or
unwarranted embarrassment.  The pattern of abuse often continues to
future relationships.

My Administration encourages all Americans to lead by example by
promoting healthy relationships, protecting our teens from abuse, and
ensuring they have access to good help and support.

If you or someone you know is involved in an abusive relationship of any
kind, immediate and confidential support is available by visiting
loveisrespect.org, calling 1-866-331-9474 (TTY: 1-800-787-3224), or
texting “loveis” to 22522.  For additional information and resources on
dating violence, please visit VetoViolence.CDC.gov.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim February 2021 as
National Teen Dating Violence Awareness and Prevention Month.  I call
upon all Americans to support efforts in their communities and schools,
and in their own families, to empower young people to develop healthy
relationships throughout their lives and to prevent and respond to teen
dating violence.  It’s on all of us.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this third day of
February, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-fifth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
