---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-02-02'
modified_time: 2021-02-04 08:47:10-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/02/02/executive-order-creating-a-comprehensive-regional-framework-to-address-the-causes-of-migration-to-manage-migration-throughout-north-and-central-america-and-to-provide-safe-and-orderly-processing/
published_time: 2021-02-02 18:55:24-05:00
title: "Executive Order on Creating a Comprehensive Regional Framework to Address\
  \ the Causes of Migration, to Manage Migration Throughout North and Central America,\
  \ and to Provide Safe and Orderly Processing of Asylum Seekers at the United\_States\_\
  Border"
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, including the Immigration and
Nationality Act (INA), 8 U.S.C. 1101 *et seq.*, it is hereby ordered as
follows:

**Section 1.  Policy.**  For generations, immigrants have come to the
United States with little more than the clothes on their backs, hope in
their hearts, and a desire to claim their own piece of the American
Dream.  These mothers, fathers, sons, and daughters have made our Nation
better and stronger.

The United States is also a country with borders and with laws that must
be enforced.  Securing our borders does not require us to ignore the
humanity of those who seek to cross them.  The opposite is true.  We
cannot solve the humanitarian crisis at our border without addressing
the violence, instability, and lack of opportunity that compel so many
people to flee their homes.  Nor is the United States safer when
resources that should be invested in policies targeting actual threats,
such as drug cartels and human traffickers, are squandered on efforts to
stymie legitimate asylum seekers.

Consistent with these principles, my Administration will implement a
multi-pronged approach toward managing migration throughout North and
Central America that reflects the Nation’s highest values.  We will work
closely with civil society, international organizations, and the
governments in the region to:  establish a comprehensive strategy for
addressing the causes of migration in the region; build, strengthen, and
expand Central and North American countries’ asylum systems and
resettlement capacity; and increase opportunities for vulnerable
populations to apply for protection closer to home.  At the same time,
the United States will enhance lawful pathways for migration to this
country and will restore and strengthen our own asylum system, which has
been badly damaged by policies enacted over the last 4 years that
contravened our values and caused needless human suffering.

**Sec. 2.  United States Strategies for Addressing the Root Causes of
Irregular Migration and for Collaboratively Managing Migration in the
Region.**  (a)  The Assistant to the President for National Security
Affairs (APNSA), in coordination with the Secretary of State, the
Attorney General, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the heads of
any other relevant executive departments and agencies, shall as soon as
possible prepare:

\(i\) the United States Strategy for Addressing the Root Causes of
Migration (the “Root Causes Strategy”); and

\(ii\)  the United States Strategy for Collaboratively Managing
Migration in the Region (the “Collaborative Management Strategy”).

\(b\)  The Root Causes Strategy shall identify and prioritize actions to
address the underlying factors leading to migration in the region and
ensure coherence of United States Government positions.  The Root Causes
Strategy shall take into account, as appropriate, the views of
bilateral, multilateral, and private sector partners, as well as civil
society, and it shall include proposals to:

\(i\)    coordinate place-based efforts in El Salvador, Guatemala, and
Honduras (the “Northern Triangle”) to address the root causes of
migration, including by:   

\(A\)  combating corruption, strengthening democratic governance, and
advancing the rule of law;

\(B\)  promoting respect for human rights, labor rights, and a free
press;

\(C\)  countering and preventing violence, extortion, and other crimes
perpetrated by criminal gangs, trafficking networks, and other organized
criminal organizations;

\(D\)  combating sexual, gender-based, and domestic violence; and

\(E\)  addressing economic insecurity and inequality;

\(ii\)   consult and collaborate with the Office of the United States
Trade Representative, the Secretary of Commerce, and the Secretary of
Labor to evaluate compliance with the Dominican Republic-Central America
Free Trade Agreement to ensure that unfair labor practices do not
disadvantage competition; and

\(iii\)  encourage the deployment of Northern Triangle domestic
resources and the development of Northern Triangle domestic capacity to
replicate and scale efforts to foster sustainable societies across the
region.

\(c\)  The Collaborative Management Strategy shall identify and
prioritize actions to strengthen cooperative efforts to address
migration flows, including by expanding and improving upon previous
efforts to resettle throughout the region those migrants who qualify for
humanitarian protection.  The Collaborative Management Strategy should
focus on programs and infrastructure that facilitate access to
protection and other lawful immigration avenues, in both the United
States and partner countries, as close to migrants’ homes as possible. 
Priorities should include support for expanding pathways through which
individuals facing difficult or dangerous conditions in their home
countries can find stability and safety in receiving countries
throughout the region, not only through asylum and refugee resettlement,
but also through labor and other non-protection-related programs.  To
support the development of the Collaborative Management Strategy, the
United States Government shall promptly begin consultations with civil
society, the private sector, international organizations, and
governments in the region, including the Government of Mexico.  These
consultations should address:

\(i\)    the continued development of asylum systems and resettlement
capacities of receiving countries in the region, including through the
provision of funding, training, and other support;

\(ii\)   the development of internal relocation and integration programs
for internally displaced persons, as well as return and reintegration
programs for returnees in relevant countries of the region; and

\(iii\)  humanitarian assistance, including through expansion of shelter
networks, to address the immediate needs of individuals who have fled
their homes to seek protection elsewhere in the region.  
**Sec. 3.  Expansion of Lawful Pathways for Protection and Opportunity
in the United States. ** (a)  The Secretary of State and the Secretary
of Homeland Security shall promptly review mechanisms for better
identifying and processing individuals from the Northern Triangle who
are eligible for refugee resettlement to the United States. 
Consideration shall be given to increasing access and processing
efficiency.  As part of this review, the Secretary of State and the
Secretary of Homeland Security shall also identify and implement all
legally available and appropriate forms of relief to complement the
protection afforded through the United States Refugee Admissions
Program.  The Secretary of State and Secretary of Homeland Security
shall submit a report to the President with the results of the review.

\(b\)  As part of the review conducted pursuant to section 3(a) of this
order, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall:

\(i\)   consider taking all appropriate actions to reverse the 2017
decision rescinding the Central American Minors (CAM) parole policy and
terminating the CAM Parole Program, *see* “Termination of the Central
American Minors Parole Program,” 82 Fed. Reg. 38,926 (August 16, 2017),
and consider initiating appropriate actions to reinstitute and improve
upon the CAM Parole Program; and

\(ii\)  consider promoting family unity by exercising the Secretary’s
discretionary parole authority to permit certain nationals of the
Northern Triangle who are the beneficiaries of approved family-sponsored
immigrant visa petitions to join their family members in the United
States, on a case-by-case basis.

\(c\) The Secretary of State and the Secretary of Homeland Security
shall promptly evaluate and implement measures to enhance access for
individuals from the Northern Triangle to visa programs, as appropriate
and consistent with applicable law.

**Sec. 4.  Restoring and Enhancing Asylum Processing at the Border. **
(a)  *Resuming the Safe and Orderly Processing of Asylum Claims at
United States Land Borders*.

\(i\)   The Secretary of Homeland Security and the Director of the
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), in coordination with
the Secretary of State, shall promptly begin consultation and planning
with international and non-governmental organizations to develop
policies and procedures for the safe and orderly processing of asylum
claims at United States land borders, consistent with public health and
safety and capacity constraints.

\(ii\)  The Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation with the
Attorney General, the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS), and
the Director of CDC, shall promptly begin taking steps to reinstate the
safe and orderly reception and processing of arriving asylum seekers,
consistent with public health and safety and capacity constraints. 
Additionally, in furtherance of this goal, as appropriate and consistent
with applicable law:

\(A\)  The Secretary of HHS and the Director of CDC, in consultation
with the Secretary of Homeland Security, shall promptly review and
determine whether termination, rescission, or modification of the
following actions is necessary and appropriate:  “Order Suspending the
Right To Introduce Certain Persons From Countries Where a Quarantinable
Communicable Disease Exists,” 85 Fed. Reg. 65,806 (October 13, 2020);
and “Control of Communicable Diseases; Foreign Quarantine: Suspension of
the Right to Introduce and Prohibition of Introduction of Persons into
United States from Designated Foreign Countries or Places for Public
Health Purposes,” 85 Fed. Reg. 56,424 (September 11, 2020) (codified at
42 C.F.R. 71.40).

\(B\)  The Secretary of Homeland Security shall promptly review and
determine whether to terminate or modify the program known as the
Migrant Protection Protocols (MPP), including by considering whether to
rescind the Memorandum of the Secretary of Homeland Security titled
“Policy Guidance for Implementation of the Migrant Protection Protocols”
(January 25, 2019), and any implementing guidance.  In coordination with
the Secretary of State, the Attorney General, and the Director of CDC,
the Secretary of Homeland Security shall promptly consider a phased
strategy for the safe and orderly entry into the United States,
consistent with public health and safety and capacity constraints, of
those individuals who have been subjected to MPP for further processing
of their asylum claims.

\(C\)  The Attorney General and the Secretary of Homeland Security shall
promptly review and determine whether to rescind the interim final rule
titled “Aliens Subject to a Bar on Entry Under Certain Presidential
Proclamations; Procedures for Protection Claims,” 83 Fed. Reg. 55,934
(November 9, 2018), and the final rule titled “Asylum Eligibility and
Procedural Modifications,” 85 Fed. Reg. 82,260 (December 17, 2020), as
well as any agency memoranda or guidance that were issued in reliance on
those rules.

\(D\)  The Attorney General and the Secretary of Homeland Security shall
promptly review and determine whether to rescind the interim final rule
titled “Implementing Bilateral and Multilateral Asylum Cooperative
Agreements Under the Immigration and Nationality Act,” 84 Fed. Reg.
63,994 (November 19, 2019), as well as any agency memoranda or guidance
issued in reliance on that rule. In the interim, the Secretary of State
shall promptly consider whether to notify the governments of the
Northern Triangle that, as efforts to establish a cooperative, mutually
respectful approach to managing migration across the region begin, the
United States intends to suspend and terminate the following agreements:

\(1\)  “Agreement Between the Government of the United States of America
and the Government of the Republic of Guatemala on Cooperation Regarding
the Examination of Protection Claims,” 84 Fed. Reg. 64,095 (July 26,
2019).

\(2\)  “Agreement Between the Government of the United States of America
and the Government of the Republic of El Salvador for Cooperation in the
Examination of Protection Claims,” 85 Fed. Reg. 83,597 (September 20,
2019).

\(3\)  “Agreement Between the Government of the United States of America
and the Government of the Republic of Honduras for Cooperation in the
Examination of Protection Claims,” 85 Fed. Reg. 25,462 (September 25,
2019).

\(E\)  The Secretary of Homeland Security shall promptly cease
implementing the “Prompt Asylum Case Review” program and the
“Humanitarian Asylum Review Program” and consider rescinding any orders,
rules, regulations, guidelines or policies implementing those programs.

\(F\)  The following Presidential documents are revoked:

\(1\)  Executive Order 13767 of January 25, 2017 (Border Security and
Immigration Enforcement Improvements).

\(2\)  Proclamation 9880 of May 8, 2019 (Addressing Mass Migration
Through the Southern Border of the United States).

\(3\)  Presidential Memorandum of April 29, 2019 (Additional Measures to
Enhance Border Security and Restore Integrity to Our Immigration
System).

\(4\)  Presidential Memorandum of April 6, 2018 (Ending “Catch and
Release” at the Border of the United States and Directing Other
Enhancements to Immigration Enforcement).

\(5\)  Presidential Memorandum of April 4, 2018 (Securing the Southern
Border of the United States).

\(G\)  The Secretary of State, the Attorney General, and the Secretary
of Homeland Security shall promptly take steps to rescind any agency
memoranda or guidance issued in reliance on or in furtherance of any
directive revoked by section 4(a)(ii)(F) of this order.

\(b\)  *Ensuring a Timely and FairExpedited Removal Process*.

\(i\)   The Secretary of Homeland Security, with support from the United
States Digital Service within the Office of Management and Budget, shall
promptly begin a review of procedures for individuals placed in
expedited removal proceedings at the United States border.  Within 120
days of the date of this order, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall
submit a report to the President with the results of this review and
recommendations for creating a more efficient and orderly process that
facilitates timely adjudications and adherence to standards of fairness
and due process.

\(ii\)  The Secretary of Homeland Security shall promptly review and
consider whether to modify, revoke, or rescind the designation titled
“Designating Aliens for Expedited Removal,” 84 Fed. Reg. 35,409 (July
23, 2019), regarding the geographic scope of expedited removal pursuant
to INA section 235(b)(1), 8 U.S.C. 1225(b)(1), consistent with
applicable law.  The review shall consider our legal and humanitarian
obligations, constitutional principles of due process and other
applicable law, enforcement resources, the public interest, and any
other factors consistent with this order that the Secretary deems
appropriate.  If the Secretary determines that modifying, revoking,
or rescinding the designation is appropriate, the Secretary shall do so
through publication in the *Federal Register*.   

\(c\)  *Asylum Eligibility*.  The Attorney General and the Secretary of
Homeland Security shall:

\(i\)   within 180 days of the date of this order, conduct a
comprehensive examination of current rules, regulations, precedential
decisions, and internal guidelines governing the adjudication of asylum
claims and determinations of refugee status to evaluate whether the
United States provides protection for those fleeing domestic or gang
violence in a manner consistent with international standards; and

\(ii\)  within 270 days of the date of this order, promulgate joint
regulations, consistent with applicable law, addressing the
circumstances in which a person should be considered a member of a
“particular social group,” as that term is used in 8 U.S.C.
1101(a)(42)(A), as derived from the 1951 Convention relating to the
Status of Refugees and its 1967 Protocol.  
Sec. 5.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:

\(i\)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or
agency, or the head thereof; or

\(ii\)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

\(b\)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.

\(c\)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.  
                               

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
