---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-02-03'
modified_time: 2021-02-04 13:14:42-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/02/03/proclamation-on-american-heart-month-2021/
published_time: 2021-02-03 18:11:30-05:00
title: A Proclamation on American Heart Month, 2021
---
 
Tragically, heart disease continues to be a leading cause of death in
the United States.  It affects Americans of all genders, races, and
ethnicities.  Yet despite being one of the country’s most costly and
deadly diseases, it is among the most preventable.  During American
Heart Month, we recommit to fighting this disease by promoting better
health, wellness, and prevention awareness in our communities.

Heart disease can impact anyone, but risk factors such as high
cholesterol, high blood pressure, physical inactivity, obesity, tobacco
use, and alcohol abuse can increase the likelihood of developing the
disease.  By adopting a few healthy habits, each of us can reduce our
risk.  Avoiding tobacco, moderating alcohol consumption, making balanced
and nutritious meal choices, and staying active can help prevent or
treat conditions that lead to heart disease.  Adults with heart
conditions are also at increased risk of severe illness from COVID-19,
which makes it even more important to follow these suggestions.

We have seen the death rate from heart attacks rise dramatically during
the COVID-19 pandemic because people are delaying or not seeking care
after experiencing symptoms.  It is important not to ignore early
warning signs like chest pain, palpitations, shortness of breath, and
sudden dizziness.  And the symptoms of a heart attack can be different
for men and women, an often-overlooked fact that can impact when people
seek care.  For more resources and information, follow your health care
provider’s advice or visit www.CDC.gov/HeartDisease.

My Administration is committed to supporting Americans in their efforts
to achieve heart health.  Under the Affordable Care Act, many insurance
plans cover preventive services like blood pressure and obesity
screening at no out-of-pocket cost to the patient.  By protecting and
expanding access to quality, affordable health care, we will work
tirelessly to provide all Americans with the care they need to prevent
and treat heart disease.

We are also committed to closing the racial disparities
in cardiovascular health.  Despite an overall decline in death rates for
heart disease, risk of heart disease death differs by race and
ethnicity, and Black Americans continue to have the highest death rate
for heart disease.  Increased awareness and access to care will help
reduce these staggering and unacceptable statistics.

This month, we also honor the health care professionals, researchers,
and heart health advocates who save our fellow Americans’ lives with
their hard work.  Every day, they put themselves on the front lines of
our fight against heart disease, as well as the scourge of COVID-19.

The First Lady and I encourage everyone to participate in National Wear
Red Day on Friday, February 5th.  By wearing red, we honor those we have
lost to heart disease, and we raise awareness of the steps we can all
take to prevent this devastating disease.  Combatting heart disease is
essential to improving public health in our Nation, and together we will
renew our efforts to make all Americans aware of its signs and symptoms.
 This month, we recommit to building a healthier future for all.

In acknowledgement of the importance of the ongoing fight against
cardiovascular disease, the Congress, by Joint Resolution approved
December 30, 1963, as amended (36 U.S.C. 101), has requested that the
President issue an annual proclamation designating February as “American
Heart Month.”

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, do hereby proclaim February 2021 as American Heart Month,
and I invite all Americans to participate in National Wear Red Day on
February 5, 2021.  I also invite the Governors of the States, the
Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, officials of other areas subject to the
jurisdiction of the United States, and the American people to join me in
recognizing and reaffirming our commitment to fighting cardiovascular
disease.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this third day of
February, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-fifth.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
