---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-02-04'
modified_time: 2021-02-05 12:02:33-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/02/04/memorandum-revitalizing-americas-foreign-policy-and-national-security-workforce-institutions-and-partnerships/
published_time: 2021-02-04 20:04:19-05:00
title: "Memorandum on Revitalizing America\u2019s Foreign Policy and National Security\
  \ Workforce, Institutions, and\_Partnerships"
---
 
NATIONAL SECURITY MEMORANDUM

The revitalization of our national security and foreign policy
institutions is essential to advancing America’s security, prosperity,
and values, accelerating our domestic renewal, and delivering results
for all Americans.

Our national security and foreign policy institutions are made up of
remarkable professionals and patriots whose service and sacrifice are
too often taken for granted and whose expertise has too often been
sidelined or demeaned.  For too long, we have asked our public servants
to do more in an increasingly complicated and competitive world, with
fewer financial resources and less support.  Their experience,
integrity, and professionalism have been severely tested.  We have
fallen short in ensuring that our national security workforce reflects
and draws on the richness and diversity of the country it represents. 
And we have failed to ensure that our public servants have the necessary
tools, training, and support to fully realize their potential.

At home and around the world, we face challenges that require us to lean
forward, not shrink back.  Meeting these challenges will require an
unprecedented mobilization of public service, a sharpening of our
priorities and tools of statecraft, and a renewed compact between
Americans and their Government.  This memorandum outlines my
Administration’s commitment to revitalizing our national security and
foreign policy workforce and institutions, and the renewal of the
commitment of our institutions to the American public.

Section 1.  Core Principles.  The following principles will guide this
endeavor and should be expressed as priorities through the implementing
guidance of each executive department and agency (agency):

(a)  *Integrity.*  The integrity and judgment of diplomats, civil
servants, Intelligence Community professionals, military personnel,
defense officials, development experts, and all professionals who
advance the national interest are critical to informed, sound
decision-making, and rigorous policy implementation.  Their oath is to
the Constitution of the United States, and they have the responsibility
and obligation to serve the public interest by offering their expert
views and judgments without regard to the political preferences of my
Administration, the Congress, or interest groups, and without fear of
reprisal or retribution.

(b)  *Transparency*.* * In a democracy, the public deserves as much
transparency as possible regarding the work of our national security
institutions, consistent with legitimate needs to protect sources and
methods and sensitive foreign relationships.  The revitalization of our
national security and foreign policy workforce requires a recommitment
to the highest standards of transparency. 

(c)  *Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, and Accessibility*.  Our
institutions reflect the American public they represent, both at home
and around the world.  It is the policy of my Administration to
prioritize diversity, equity, inclusion, and accessibility as a national
security imperative, in order to ensure critical perspectives and
talents are represented in the national security workforce.

(d)  *Modernization*.  Too many ofAmerica’s foreign policy and national
security institutions have lost, or are at risk of losing, their
technological edge.  To succeed in a competitive world, we must close
mission-critical knowledge and skills gaps, compete in and win the race
for talent, equip our workforce with cutting-edge technology and agile,
flexible, and adaptive organizational structures, and establish
incentives and rewards for innovation across the Government.

(e)  *Service.*  To address challenges that Government cannot solve on
its own, it is imperative that we harness the ideas, perspectives, and
contributions of partners, including State and local governments,
universities and colleges, the private sector, and civil society.  And
just as our national security institutions must serve the American
public, so must we seek ways to allow more Americans to engage in public
service throughout their careers.

(f)  *Accountability.  *Revitalizing our national security and foreign
policy institutions will take time and extraordinary effort.  I expect
executive departments and agencies (agencies) to restore the integrity
and independence of inspectors general and to work closely and
cooperatively with the Congress to ensure it can exercise its vital
oversight role. 

Sec. 2.  Policy on Strengthening the National Security Workforce. 
Strengthening the national security workforce will be critical to
accomplishing my Administration’s foreign policy goals.  This includes
efforts to expand the pathways to recruit and hire new employees from
all segments of our society, retain and support current employees and
their families, improve professional development in order to close
mission-critical gaps, recruit and retain technical and other
specialized talent, and remove barriers that inhibit Americans from
serving their country.

Sec. 3.  Interagency Working Group on the National Security Workforce.

(a)  There shall be an Interagency Working Group on the National
Security Workforce (Working Group), to be chaired by the Principal
Deputy National Security Advisor.  The Deputy Director for Management of
the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), the Deputy Director of the
Office of Personnel Management (OPM), and the Deputy Director of the
Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP) for National Security
shall serve as Vice Chairs.

(b)  The Working Group shall consist of the Chair, the Vice Chairs, and
the heads of the following agencies or their designees, and such other
executive branch agencies as the President may designate:

(i)     the Department of State;

(ii)    the Department of the Treasury;

(iii)   the Department of Defense;

(iv)    the Department of Justice;

(v)     the Department of Commerce;

(vi)    the Department of Energy;

(vii)   the Department of Homeland Security;

(viii)  the Office of the Director of National Intelligence;

(ix)    the Federal Bureau of Investigation;

(x)     the United States Agency for International Development;

(xi)    the Central Intelligence Agency; and

(xii)   the Department of Veterans Affairs.

     (c)  The Working Group shall task agencies to undertake the
following actions:

(i)     Establish a special advisory group including agencies heavily
reliant on scientific and technological expertise to inform
recommendations for expanding and creating programs to recruit and
retain individuals with such expertise;

(ii)    Identify innovative proposals to address critical staffing
needs, retain experienced personnel, surge skilled individuals during
periods of crisis or other national demand, and provide additional
pathways for Americans to engage in public service within national
security institutions for select periods of time;

(iii)   Strengthen diversity and inclusion by sex, race, ethnicity,
sexual orientation, gender identity, veteran status, disability, and
economic, regional, and immigrant backgrounds, including at senior
levels;

(iv)    Identify lessons learned and best practices from the COVID-19
pandemic and develop agency-specific plans to resource and implement
changes that build more flexibility and resiliency into the national
security workforce, including through remote work options, adoption of
secure remote technology, reduction of the over-classification of
materials, and flexible work arrangements;

(v)     Develop proposals to more effectively retain, develop, promote,
and support national security employees, such as through expanded
external and interagency rotational opportunities, review of
time‑in-class requirements and criteria for key assignments, provision
of affordable child and family care, and support for those serving
overseas and their families, including those with LGBTQI+ members and
with special needs;

(vi)    Assess implementation of security clearance reforms and
reciprocity proposals, additional reforms to eliminate bias, and ensure
efficient timelines for completion of security clearance investigations;

(vii)   In consultation with the Chair of the Equal Employment
Opportunity Commission, conduct an assessment of methods to improve the
ability of the national security workforce to attract and accommodate
individuals who have a disability as defined in the ADA Amendments Act
of 2008 or a targeted disability as defined in the regulations
implementing Section 501 of the Rehabilitation Act, including methods to
make more judicious use of the application of the national security
exemption to Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act;

(viii)  Review proposals made by the National Commission on Military,
National, and Public Service to modernize veterans’ preference and
Veterans Recruitment Appointment, including their impact on different
populations of veterans; and

(ix)    Develop a proposal to create a national security education
consortium consisting of the head of each national security educational
institution, as identified by the head of the department or agency under
which it is organized, and outside experts as appropriate, to identify
and implement methods to improve national security education by
strengthening coordination among these institutions on training,
testing, and evaluation of capabilities, skills, and knowledge needed to
address current and emerging national security threats.

(d)  Within 1 year of the date of this memorandum, and annually
thereafter, the Working Group shall submit to the President a report on
the Working Group’s progress in addressing the items under subsection
(c) of this section.  Additionally, the report shall provide guidance on
the critical skills needed to address current and emerging national
security challenges, as well as an evaluation of progress in recruiting,
retaining, and developing critical skills in the national security
workforce.  In the interim, the Chair of the Working Group shall provide
a quarterly progress report to the Assistant to the President for
National Security Affairs (APNSA). 

Sec. 4.  Preliminary Survey of Hiring Authorities.

(a)  Within 180 days of the date of this memorandum, the Vice Chairs of
the Working Group established in section 4 of this memorandum shall
provide a report to the President on available authorities for hiring
individuals into the national security workforce.  The report shall
describe:

(i)    all such authorities, including any authorities that exist to
recruit individuals with critical skills, including science, technology,
engineering, and mathematics expertise; economic and financial
expertise; critical language skills and regional expertise; and
individuals with partner experience and expertise;

(ii)   the use of such authorities by agencies represented in the
Working Group, and any impediments to hiring or limitations of such
authorities;

(iii)  recommendations for how to make more effective use of such
authorities, identifying best practices to facilitate the hiring of
employees with critical skills and expertise; and

(iv)   recommendations for legislative or executive action, as
appropriate, to further enhance the recruitment of experts by all
agencies represented in the Working Group.

Sec. 5.  Policy on Engagement and Partnerships.  No nation alone can
solve the world’s most pressing issues.  Partnering with other nations
to confront shared challenges has thus long been an animating force
behind United States foreign policy, and it will be under my
Administration as well.

However, working with other nations is no longer enough.  Technological,
social, and geopolitical changes are combining to expand the power and
influence of non-state and sub-national actors, making their views on a
wide range of national security and foreign policy issues important and
cooperation with them essential.  A diverse range of these actors is
needed to address the pressing problems on our Nation’s agenda.  Cities
and States have shown they can lead on issues such as climate change;
industry stands on the cutting edge of technological development and is
often responsible for securing our critical infrastructure; and social
movements advance larger goals by taking coordinated, grassroots
action.  The United States must engage with all of these actors to best
achieve its national security and foreign policy goals.

It is the policy of my Administration to advance its national security
and foreign policy goals by harnessing the ideas, perspectives, support,
and contributions of a diverse array of partners, such as State and
local governments, academic and research institutions, the private
sector, non-governmental organizations, and civil society. 
Specifically, my Administration will emphasize the value and importance
of engagement and partnerships and seek to:

(a)  more systematically and strategically incorporate the expertise and
views of partners into national-level policymaking;

(b)  improve the Federal Government’s ability to mobilize and support
partners, where appropriate, so that they can help the Government
achieve important national objectives;

(c)  facilitate the Federal Government’s ability to draw on the talent,
knowledge, and perspectives of potential partners; and

(d)  develop tools and processes, including through the use of emerging
technologies, that allow the Government to consider a diversity of
inputs into policy and implementation processes and to deepen,
deconflict, and make more strategic use of important partnerships.

Sec. 6.  Organizing the National Security Community to More Effectively
Work with Partners.

(a)  There shall be a National Security Council (NSC) Directorate on
Partnerships and Global Engagement, which shall be headed by a Senior
Director for Partnerships and Global Engagement.  This Directorate shall
be responsible for coordinating key initiatives related to how agencies
engage with partners, including the initiatives outlined in this
memorandum.

(b)  Within 30 days of the date of this memorandum, the heads of
agencies represented on the NSC, as well as heads of agencies appearing
in an advisory capacity, shall designate a senior official to oversee
partnership engagement, including:

(i)    taking steps to encourage the inclusion of diverse partner views
into agency decision-making processes;

(ii)   establishing mechanisms to coordinate, prioritize, and deconflict
intra-agency partner outreach, in order to understand and optimize all
of the agency’s partner interactions; and

(iii)  coordinating with the Senior Director for Partnerships and Global
Engagement on key initiatives related to how agencies engage with
partners, including the initiatives outlined in this memorandum.

 Sec. 7.  Increasing the Efficiency and Efficacy of Partnership
Engagement.

 (a)  To demonstrate the importance of partnerships and foster effective
relationships between key partners and the Government, the heads of
agencies and the APNSA are each encouraged to meet with a diverse,
rotating group of partners on at least a quarterly basis, as organized
by the designated agency official.  Partners may include representatives
from State and local governments, academic and research institutions,
the private sector, non‑governmental organizations, and civil society.

(b)  The APNSA, in coordination with the heads of relevant agencies,
shall within 180 days of the date of this memorandum provide a report to
the President that provides recommendations on:

(i)   new mechanisms the Federal Government may use to obtain the
perspectives of partners, with a particular focus on lower-cost and more
inclusive mechanisms, such as online surveys, wikis, petitioning
systems, and discussion boards that allow asynchronous elicitation of
advice from a broad range of experts; and

(ii)  ways the Federal Government can better obtain actionable advice in
a timely fashion from experts with existing connections to the
Government.

Sec. 8.  Implementing a Foreign Policy for the Middle Class.  Our work
abroad is — and always will be — tethered to our needs at home.  I have
committed to the American people that my Administration will prioritize
policies abroad that help Americans to succeed in the global economy and
ensure that everyone shares in the success of our country here at home. 
To coordinate this effort, I hereby direct that:

(a)  Within 60 days of the date of this memorandum, a meeting of the
Deputies Committee shall be held to discuss challenges and opportunities
for refocusing United States foreign policy to meet the needs of the
American middle class; 

(b)  Within 30 days of the date of this memorandum, the heads of all
agencies represented on the NSC, as well as heads of agencies appearing
in an advisory capacity, and the Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of
Labor, the United States Trade Representative, the Assistant to the
President for Economic Policy, the Chairman of the Council of Economic
Advisers, and the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy shall
identify a senior official to lead execution of initiatives focused on
benefiting the American middle class at each agency, and who shall serve
as the agency representative and point of contact for efforts to better
integrate foreign policy with domestic objectives; and

(c)  Agencies shall provide a report to the APNSA within 90 days of the
date of this memorandum summarizing their agency’s proposed contribution
to a foreign policy agenda focused on benefiting the American middle
class, and outlining specific actions that each agency will take in
furtherance of this agenda.

Sec. 9.  Assessment.  Within 2 years of the date of this memorandum, the
APNSA, in coordination with the heads of relevant agencies, shall
provide to the President a report that assesses my Administration’s
progress in implementing the requirements of this memorandum.  This
report should be made public to the maximum extent possible.

Sec. 10.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this memorandum shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency,
or the head thereof; or

(ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b)  This memorandum shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c)  This memorandum is not intended to, and does not, create any right
or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity
by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person

      JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
