---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-02-02'
modified_time: 2021-02-03 16:43:20-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/02/02/executive-order-the-establishment-of-interagency-task-force-on-the-reunification-of-families/
published_time: 2021-02-02 18:59:10-05:00
title: "Executive Order on the Establishment of Interagency Task Force on the Reunification\
  \ of\_Families"
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, and in order to reunite children
separated from their families at the United States-Mexico border, it is
hereby ordered as follows:

**Section 1.  Policy.  **It is the policy of my Administration to
respect and value the integrity of families seeking to enter the United
States. My Administration condemns the human tragedy that occurred when
our immigration laws were used to intentionally separate children from
their parents or legal guardians (families), including through the use
of the Zero-Tolerance Policy. My Administration will protect family
unity and ensure that children entering the United States are not
separated from their families, except in the most extreme circumstances
where a separation is clearly necessary for the safety and well-being of
the child or is required by law.

**Sec. 2.  Establishment.**  There is hereby established an Interagency
Task Force on the Reunification of Families (Task Force).

**Sec. 3.  Membership.**  (a)  The Task Force shall include the
following members or their designees:

(i)    the Secretary of Homeland Security, who shall serve as Chair;

(ii)   the Secretary of State, who shall serve as a Vice Chair;

(iii)  the Secretary of Health and Human Services, who shall serve as a
Vice Chair;

(iv)   the Attorney General;

(v)    such other officers or employees of the Departments of State,
Justice, Health and Human Services, and Homeland Security, as the head
of each respective department may designate; and

(vi)   such other officers or employees of executive departments and
agencies (agencies) as the Chair or Vice Chairs may invite to
participate, with the concurrence of the head of the agency concerned.

(b)  The Chair shall convene and preside at meetings of the Task Force. 
The Chair, in consultation with the Vice Chairs, shall direct its work
and, as appropriate, establish and direct subgroups of the Task Force.

**Sec. 4.  Functions.**  The Task Force shall, consistent with
applicable law, perform the following functions:

\(a\)  Identifying all children who were separated from their families
at the United States-Mexico border between January 20, 2017, and January
20, 2021, in connection with the operation of the Zero-Tolerance Policy;

\(b\)  To the greatest extent possible, facilitating and enabling the
reunification of each of the identified children with their families by:

\(i\)    providing recommendations to heads of agencies concerning the
exercise of any agency authorities necessary to reunite the children
with their families, including:

(A)  recommendations regarding the possible exercise of parole under
section 212(d)(5)(A) of the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952, as
amended (8 U.S.C. 1182(d)(5)(A)), or the issuance of visas or other
immigration benefits, as appropriate and consistent with applicable
law; 

(B)  recommendations regarding the provision of additional services and
support to the children and their families, including trauma and mental
health services; and

(C)  recommendations regarding reunification of any additional family
members of the children who were separated, such as siblings, where
there is a compelling humanitarian interest in doing so;

(ii)   providing recommendations to the President concerning the
exercise of any Presidential authorities necessary to reunite the
children with their families, as appropriate and consistent with
applicable law; and

(iii)  for purposes of developing the recommendations described in this
subsection, and in particular with respect to recommendations regarding
the manner and location of reunification, consulting with the children,
their families, representatives of the children and their families, and
other stakeholders, and considering the families’ preferences and
parental rights as well as the children’s well-being; and

(c)  Providing regular reports to the President, including:

(i)    an initial progress report no later than 120 days after the date
of this order;

(ii)   interim progress reports every 60 days thereafter;

(iii)  a report containing recommendations to ensure that the Federal
Government will not repeat the policies and practices leading to the
separation of families at the border, no later than 1 year after the
date of this order; and

(iv)   a final report when the Task Force has completed its mission.  

**Sec. 5.  Task Force Administration. ** (a)  To the extent permitted by
law, and subject to the availability of appropriations, the Department
of Homeland Security shall provide the funding and administrative
support the Task Force needs to implement this order, as determined by
the Secretary of Homeland Security.

\(b\)  To the extent permitted by law, including the Economy Act (31
U.S.C. 1535), and subject to the availability of appropriations,
additional agencies represented on the Task Force may detail staff to
the Task Force, or otherwise provide administrative support, as
necessary to implement this order, as determined by the respective heads
of agencies.

\(c\)  The Task Force shall coordinate, as appropriate and consistent
with applicable law, with relevant stakeholders, including domestic and
international non-governmental organizations, and representatives of the
children and their families.

\(d\)  The Task Force, at the direction of the Chair, may hold public
meetings and engagement sessions as necessary to carry out its mission.

\(e\)  The Task Force shall terminate 30 days after it provides its
final report to the President under section 4(c)(iv) of this order.  

**Sec. 6.  Revocation of Executive Order 13841.**  Executive Order 13841
of June 20, 2018 (Affording Congress an Opportunity To Address Family
Separation), is hereby revoked.

**Sec. 7.  Definitions.**  For purposes of this order:

(a)  The term “children” includes all persons who were under the age of
18 at the time they were separated from their families at the border.

(b)  The term “Zero-Tolerance Policy” means the policy discussed in the
Attorney General’s memorandum of April 6, 2018, entitled,
“Zero-Tolerance for Offenses Under 8 U.S.C. § 1325(a),” and any other
related policy, program, practice, or initiative resulting in the
separation of children from their families at the United States-Mexico
border.

**Sec. 8.  General Provisions.**  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency,
or the head thereof; or

(ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and
subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR. 
