---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-02-11'
modified_time: 2021-02-11 10:08:58-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/02/11/executive-order-on-blocking-property-with-respect-to-the-situation-in-burma/
published_time: 2021-02-11 09:35:03-05:00
title: Executive Order on Blocking Property with Respect to the Situation in Burma
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, including the International
Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 *et seq*.) (IEEPA), the
National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 *et seq*.) (NEA), section
212(f) of the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952 (8 U.S.C.
1182(f)), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code,

I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States of America, find
that the situation in and in relation to Burma, and in particular the
February 1, 2021, coup, in which the military overthrew the
democratically elected civilian government of Burma and unjustly
arrested and detained government leaders, politicians, human rights
defenders, journalists, and religious leaders, thereby rejecting the
will of the people of Burma as expressed in elections held in November
2020 and undermining the country’s democratic transition and rule of
law, constitutes an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national
security and foreign policy of the United States.  I hereby declare a
national emergency to deal with that threat.

 Accordingly, I hereby order:

**Section 1.**  (a)  All property and interests in property that are in
the United States, that hereafter come within the United States, or that
are or hereafter come within the possession or control of any United
States person of the following persons are blocked and may not be
transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in:  any
foreign person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in
consultation with the Secretary of State:

(i)    to operate in the defense sector of the Burmese economy or any
other sector of the Burmese economy as may be determined by the
Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State;

\(ii\)   to be responsible for or complicit in, or to have directly or
indirectly engaged or attempted to engage in, any of the following:

\(A\)  actions or policies that undermine democratic processes or
institutions in Burma;

\(B\)  actions or policies that threaten the peace, security, or
stability of Burma;

\(C\)  actions or policies that prohibit, limit, or penalize the
exercise of freedom of expression or assembly by people in Burma, or
that limit access to print, online, or broadcast media in Burma; or

\(D\)  the arbitrary detention or torture of any person in Burma or
other serious human rights abuse in Burma;

\(iii\)  to be or have been a leader or official of:

\(A\)  the military or security forces of Burma, or any successor entity
to any of the foregoing;

\(B\)  the Government of Burma on or after February 2, 2021;

\(C\)  an entity that has, or whose members have, engaged in any
activity described in subsection (a)(ii) of this section relating
to the leader’s or official’s tenure; or

\(D\)  an entity whose property and interests in property are blocked
pursuant to this order as a result of activities related to the leader’s
or official’s tenure;

\(iv\)   to be a political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality of
the Government of Burma;

\(v\)    to be a spouse or adult child of any person whose property and
interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order;

\(vi\)   to have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial,
material, or technological support for, or goods or services to or in
support of any person whose property and interests in property are
blocked pursuant to this order; or

\(vii\)  to be owned or controlled by, or to have acted or purported to
act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, the military or
security forces of Burma or any person whose property and interests in
property are blocked pursuant to this order.

\(b\)  The prohibitions in subsection (a) of this section apply except
to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders,
directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and
notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit
granted before the date of this order.

**Sec. 2.  **The prohibitions in section 1 of this order include:

\(a\)  the making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or
services by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and
interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order; and

\(b\)  the receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or
services from any such person.

**Sec. 3.**  (a)  The unrestricted immigrant and nonimmigrant entry into
the United States of noncitizens determined to meet one or more of the
criteria in section 1(a) of this order would be detrimental to the
interests of the United States, and the entry of such persons into the
United States, as immigrants or nonimmigrants, is hereby suspended,
except where the Secretary of State or the Secretary of Homeland
Security, as appropriate, determines that the person’s entry would not
be contrary to the interests of the United States, including when the
Secretary of State or the Secretary of Homeland Security, as
appropriate, so determines, based on a recommendation of the Attorney
General, that the person’s entry would further important United States
law enforcement objectives.

(b)  The Secretary of State shall implement this authority as it applies
to visas pursuant to such procedures as the Secretary of State, in
consultation with the Secretary of Homeland Security, may establish.

\(c\)  The Secretary of Homeland Security shall implement this order as
it applies to the entry of noncitizens pursuant to such procedures as
the Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation with the Secretary
of State, may establish.

\(d\)  Such persons shall be treated by this section in the same manner
as persons covered by section 1 of Proclamation 8693 of July 24, 2011
(Suspension of Entry of Aliens Subject to United Nations Security
Council Travel Bans and International Emergency Economic Powers Act
Sanctions).

**Sec. 4.**  (a)  Any transaction that evades or avoids, has the purpose
of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate
any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

\(b\)  Any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions set
forth in this order is prohibited.

**Sec. 5.  **I hereby determine that the making of donations of the
types of articles specified in section 203(b)(2) of IEEPA (50 U.S.C.
1702(b)(2)) by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and
interests in property are blocked pursuant to section 1 of this order
would seriously impair my ability to deal with the national emergency
declared in this order, and I hereby prohibit such donations as provided
by section 1 of this order.

**Sec. 6.  **For the purposes of this order:

(a)  the term “entity” means a partnership, association, trust, joint
venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization;

(b)  the term “Government of Burma” means the Government of Burma, any
political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof, including the
Central Bank of Myanmar, and any person owned or controlled by, or
acting for or on behalf of, the Government of Burma;

(c)  the term “noncitizen” means any person who is not a citizen or
noncitizen national of the United States;

(d)  the term “person” means an individual or entity; and

(e)  the term “United States person” means any United States citizen,
permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United
States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign
branches), or any person in the United States.

**Sec. 7.  **For those persons whose property and interests in property
are blocked pursuant to this order who might have a constitutional
presence in the United States, I find that because of the ability to
transfer funds or other assets instantaneously, prior notice to such
persons of measures to be taken pursuant to this order would render
those measures ineffectual.  I therefore determine that for these
measures to be effective in addressing the national emergency declared
in this order, there need be no prior notice of a listing or
determination made pursuant to section 1 of this order.

**Sec. 8.  **The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the
Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to take such actions, including
the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers
granted to the President by IEEPA as may be necessary to carry out the
purposes of this order.  The Secretary of the Treasury may, consistent
with applicable law, redelegate any of these functions within the
Department of the Treasury.  All departments and agencies of the United
States shall take all appropriate measures within their authority to
carry out the provisions of this order.

**Sec. 9.**  Nothing in this order is intended to affect the continued
effectiveness of any action taken pursuant to Executive Order 13742 of
October 7, 2016 (Termination of Emergency With Respect to the Actions
and Policies of the Government of Burma).

**Sec. 10.**  The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the
Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to submit recurring and final
reports to the Congress on the national emergency declared in this
order, consistent with section 401(c) of the NEA (50 U.S.C. 1641(c)) and
section 204(c) of IEEPA (50 U.S.C. 1703(c)).

**Sec. 11.**  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or
otherwise affect:

(i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency,
or the head thereof; or

\(ii\)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

\(b\)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.

\(c\)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
