---
date: '2025-04-28'
published_time: 2025-04-28 08:40:37-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/fact-sheets/2025/04/report-to-the-president-on-protecting-children-from-surgical-and-chemical-mutilation-executive-summary/
tags: fact-sheets
title: Report to the President on Protecting Children from Surgical and Chemical Mutilation
  Executive Summary
---
 
**Background**

Under President Biden, the Federal government promoted a grotesque
social and scientific experiment on American children. During the first
three years of his administration alone, more than 7,000 children were
administered puberty blockers and cross-sex hormones. Over 4,000 were
subjected to sex-trait modification surgical interventions, such as
mastectomies. These interventions were marketed to children on the basis
of ideologically driven and financially motivated junk-science.

On January 28, 2025, President Trump signed Executive Order 14187,
“Protecting Children from Chemical and Surgical Mutilation.” EO 14187
prohibits Federal departments from funding, sponsoring, assisting, or
facilitating the chemical and surgical mutilation of minors and directs
them to stop these immoral, unjust, and disproven practices more broadly
to the greatest extent possible. The following sections summarize
initial steps taken to implement this Order.

**Restoring Scientific Integrity**

Section 3(i) directs agencies to rescind or amend all policies that rely
on the “Standards of Care Version 8” developed by the World Professional
Association for Transgender Health (WPATH). These standards were not
drafted based on scientific evidence, but on political considerations.
During the drafting process, then-Assistant Secretary for Health,
Admiral Levine, lobbied WPATH to drop its proposed age limits for
surgical mutilation. Levine then issued Federal guidance titled
“Gender-affirming Care and Young People,” which promoted the chemical
sterilization and surgical mutilation of minors.

After President Trump took office in January, the Department of Health
and Human Services (HHS) immediately removed this document, along with
other pseudo-scientific information, from its webpages. On February 14,
a court order compelled HHS to display this document and other
pseudoscientific webpages. HHS followed the court order, but provided a
notice that it disavows Levine’s document – and all materials that cite
WPATH – in the strongest possible terms.

Section 3(ii) directs HHS to publish an evidence-based review of the
literature on best-practices to promote the health of children who
assert gender dysphoria. HHS has coordinated with a team of eight
distinguished scholars, and will publish this review by the 90-day
deadline.

**Promoting Accurate Information**

Section 3(b) directs HHS to use “all available methods” to increase data
quality to improve practices “for improving the health of minors with
gender dysphoria.”

The lead researcher of one notable study, funded by the National
Institute for Health (NIH), withheld its results from the public for
political reasons. The NIH has taken, and will continue to take, all
necessary and proper steps to ensure accountability and transparency for
all taxpayer-funded studies.

HHS is reviewing data tools to ensure that Federal data collection
reflects biological reality and provides medically useful information.

**Stopping Taxpayer-Funded Child Experimentation and Mutilation**

Section 4 directs HHS to “immediately take appropriate steps to ensure
that \[medical\] institutions receiving federal research or education
grants end the chemical and surgical mutilation of children.”

HHS has eliminated 215 such grants, saving taxpayers over $477 million.
Two examples include: a $1,319,024 grant to the Center for Innovative
Public Health research for “#TranscendantHealth – Adapting an LGB+
inclusive teen pregnancy prevention program for transgender boys;” and a
$5,955,310 grant to Boston Children’s Hospital for “TransHealthGUIDE:
Transforming Health for Gender-Diverse Young Adults Using Intervention
to Drive Equity.”

**Ensuring Proper Medical Treatment**

Section 5 directs HHS to take all appropriate actions to end the
chemical and surgical mutilation of children. On March 5, the Centers
for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) issued a Quality and Safety
Special Alert Memo entitled “Protecting Children from Chemical and
Surgical Mutilation,” which alerted providers to the dangers of chemical
mutilation as well as the lack of medical evidence supporting their use.
Among other provisions, the letter stated that:

*it is of utmost importance that all providers follow the highest
standards of care and adhere closely to the foundational principles of
medicine, especially as it comes to America’s children. This CMS alert
to providers on the dangerous chemical and surgical mutilation of
children, including interventions that cause sterilization, is informed
by a growing body of evidence and protective policies across the world.*

Within days, similar letters were sent by the Substance Abuse and Mental
Health Services Administration, the Health Resources and Services
Administration, and the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Health.

This administration is preparing other actions in accordance with
Section 5. HHS, through CMS, is also exploring every avenue to increase
access to detransition care.

Pursuant to Section 6, the Department of Defense has required its health
services contractors to discontinue child mutilation as a covered
benefit. Pursuant to Section 7, the Office of Personnel Management has
excluded coverage for the mutilation of the children of the Federal
civilian workforce beginning in Plan Year 2026.**  
**

**Ensuring Equal Protection and Rule of Law**

Pursuant to Section 8, the Department of Justice (DOJ) has prepared
guidance regarding enforcement of 18 U.S.C. § 116, prioritizing
protection against female genital mutilation, and will convene State
Attorneys General to coordinate enforcement. It has also initiated
investigations of multiple entities that have misled the public about
the long-term side effects of chemical and surgical mutilation under the
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.

DOJ has drafted and submitted legislation creating a private right of
action, with a long statute of limitations, for children whose bodies
have been chemically and surgically damaged and their parents, for
additional review. DOJ will also establish a “Parental Rights Task
Force” to vindicate the rights of parents in states like California,
where parental refusal to consent to the mutilation of their children
can enable the state to remove children from parental custody, and to
further uphold parents’ recognized constitutional rights.  
