---
date: '2025-04-03'
modified_time: 2025-04-03 19:18:00-04:00
published_time: 2025-04-03 19:17:59-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/fact-sheets/2025/04/report-to-the-president-on-the-america-first-trade-policy-executive-summary/
tags: fact-sheets
title: Report to the President on the America First Trade Policy Executive Summary
---
 
Pursuant to the January 20, 2025 Presidential Memorandum on America
First Trade Policy (AFTP), directed to the Secretary of State, Secretary
of the Treasury, Secretary of Defense, Secretary of Commerce, Secretary
of Homeland Security, Director of the Office of Management and Budget,
U.S. Trade Representative, Assistant to the President for Economic
Policy, and the Senior Counselor for Trade and Manufacturing, the
President instructed the Department of the Treasury, the Department of
Commerce, and the United States Trade Representative to report to the
President on April 1, 2025, on the topics set forth therein, consisting
of 24 individual chapters containing the reviews, investigations,
findings, identifications, and recommendations enumerated in Sections
2(a) through 4(g) of the Presidential Memorandum. The Report also
includes the expanded scope of work on non-reciprocal trading practices
directed by the February 13, 2025 Presidential Memorandum on Reciprocal
Trade and Tariffs. The findings from Sections 3(c), 3(d), and 3(f) of
the February 21, 2025 Presidential Memorandum on Defending American
Companies and Innovators from Overseas Extortion and Unfair Fines and
Penalties are incorporated therein. This unified report is delivered to
the President accordingly.

**Introduction**

An America First Trade Policy will unleash investment, jobs, and growth
at home; reinforce our industrial and technological advantages; reduce
our destructive trade imbalance; strengthen our economic and national
security; and deliver substantial benefits for American workers,
manufacturers, farmers, ranchers, entrepreneurs, and businesses. The
America First Trade Policy Report (the Report) provides a foundation and
resource for trade policy actions that will Make America Great Again by
putting America First. It presents comprehensive recommendations
covering the full scope of trade policies and challenges, from market
access and the *de minimis* duty exemption to export controls and
outbound investment restrictions. 

The need for an America First Trade Policy is self-evident. For decades,
the United States has shed jobs, innovation, wealth, and security to
foreign countries who have used a myriad of unfair, non-reciprocal, and
distortive practices to gain advantage over our domestic producers.
There is no better expression of this dangerous state of affairs than
America’s large and persistent trade deficit in goods, which soared to
$1.2 trillion in 2024. Emerging from a tenuous geopolitical landscape in
the previous four years, the United States cannot approach international
economic and industrial policy issues with malaise. Our Nation’s future
prosperity and national security requires a coordinated, strategic
approach that fully utilizes the authorities and expertise of the
Federal government to ensure the enduring economic, technological, and
military dominance of the United States.

It was for this reason that President Trump wasted no time in launching
the America First Trade Policy mere hours after taking his oath of
office. In the weeks that followed, he expanded the scope of work to
include non-reciprocal trading practices—a key driver of the trade
deficit—and foreign extortion of American firms, especially leading U.S.
technology companies. For most administrations, success in any of the 24
separate workstreams discussed in the Report would represent some of the
most significant international economic change in the history of the
country. Each could easily take decades to resolve. In fact, it is
precisely because decades have passed without resolution of these issues
that urgent action is required today. The United States does not have
decades to continue tinkering around the edges of international
economics—the urgency of the situation requires bold action now.

Today—on April 1—after a mere 71 days on the job, President Trump’s
Administration delivered the results of its work. The Report provides
the President with recommendations for transformative action. The Report
charts a course for his Presidency to reshape U.S. trade relations by
prioritizing economic and national security, and restoring the ability
to make America, once again, a nation of producers and builders.

Specifically, the Report includes a chapter for each subsection in the
AFTP Memorandum, with an additional chapter for Section 3(f) of
Presidential Memorandum on Defending American Companies and Innovators
from Overseas Extortion and Unfair Fines and Penalties; reporting
pursuant to Sections 3(c) and 3(d) of the latter are included within
Chapter 3. Although the full Report delivered to the President is
non-public, what follows is a brief public summary of the contents of
each chapter.

**Addressing Unfair and Unbalanced Trade**

*Chapter 1. Economic and National Security Implications of the Large and
Persistent Trade Deficit (Section 2(a) of AFTP)*

The Report opens with a discussion of the magnitude and urgency of the
economic and national security threat posed by the large and persistent
trade deficit. In particular, the trade deficit demonstrates a
fundamental unfairness and lack of reciprocity in how the United States
is treated by its trading partners. For decades, while the United States
has kept its tariffs low and its economy open, our trading partners have
imposed egregious tariff and non-tariff barriers on American goods and
services.  These unfair and non-reciprocal trade practices have
undermined U.S. competitiveness, leading to business closures, job
losses, missed market opportunities for American exporters, loss of
industrial capacity, and an atrophying of our defense industrial base
and national security posture. The sum total of these various
non-reciprocal practices is that American exporters are less competitive
abroad and foreign imports are artificially more competitive in the
United States. Hence, our large and persistent trade deficit. The Report
makes recommendations to the President to reduce the trade deficit,
including the imposition of a tariff on certain imports in pursuit of
reciprocity and balanced trade.

*Chapter 2. The External Revenue Service (Section 2(b) of AFTP)*

Through a collaboration between the Department of Commerce (DOC), the
Department of the Treasury, and the Department of Homeland Security
(DHS), the creation of an External Revenue Service (ERS) offers an
opportunity to improve tariff collection. Tariffs have historically
played a central role in the collection of Federal revenues. One way the
United States can maximize its revenue recovery while deterring
fraudulent and unfair trade practices is by establishing a centralized
system to optimize revenue collection in the form of an ERS. By closing
regulatory gaps and modernizing revenue collection mechanisms, the
United States can reaffirm its commitment to a strong, fair, and
enforceable trade system that benefits American businesses and taxpayers
alike.

*Chapter 3. Review of Unfair and Non-Reciprocal Foreign Trade Practices
(Section 2(c) of AFTP)*

U.S. trading partners pursue various unfair and non-reciprocal trade
practices. In its review, the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative
(USTR) identified more than 500 of these practices, and stakeholders
reported many more during a public comment process. Many countries
impose higher tariffs on U.S. exports than the United States imposes on
imports from those countries. The U.S. average applied tariff is 3.3%.
But the average tariffs in the European Union (EU) (5%), China (7.5%),
Vietnam (9.4%), India (17%), and Brazil (11.2%) are all higher. The
disparity is even more evident in specific products. The U.S.
most-favored nation (MFN) tariff on passenger vehicles is 2.5%, but the
EU, India, and China tariff cars at much higher rates, 10%, 70%, and 15%
respectively. The United States has no tariffs on apples, but India has
a 50% tariff and Turkey a 60.3% tariff.

Non-tariff barriers by our trade partners are often an even greater
obstacle. The EU only allows imports of shellfish from two
states—Massachusetts and Washington—but the United States gives the EU
unlimited access to the U.S. shellfish market. The United Kingdom (UK)
maintains non-science-based standards that adversely affect U.S. exports
of safe, high-quality beef and poultry products. Non-tariff barriers
also include domestic economic policies that suppress domestic
consumption. While the U.S. share of consumption to gross domestic
product (GDP) is 68%, it is much lower in Ireland (24%), China (38%),
and Germany (49%). This is because our trading partners pursue
intentional policies of consumption-reduction (e.g., wage suppression
and labor, environmental, and regulatory arbitrage) to gain unfair trade
advantage over the United States. This, in turn, contributes to our
large and persistent trade deficit. USTR recommends a number of ways in
which current legal authorities might be used to address these unfair
practices and trade barriers.

*Chapter 4. Renegotiation of the U.S.-Mexico-Canada Agreement (Section
2(d) of AFTP)*

In his first term, President Trump ended the job-killing North America
Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) and replaced it with the U.S.-Mexico-Canada
Agreement (USMCA). USMCA gained new market access for American exporters
and adopted rules to incentivize the reshoring of manufacturing to the
United States. It also included an innovative review mechanism to ensure
that the agreement is responsive to changing economic circumstances.
Under the USMCA Implementation Act, USTR is statutorily required to
initiate the review process ahead of the July 2026 deadline. Numerous
changes are needed, such as stronger rules of origin to reduce the
inflow of non-market economy content into the United States, expanded
market access—especially for dairy exports to Canada, and action to
address Mexico’s discriminatory practices, such as in the energy sector.

*Chapter 5. Review of Foreign Currency Manipulation (Section 2(e) of
AFTP)*

The Secretary of the Treasury is required to assess the policies and
practices of major U.S. trading partners with respect to the rate of
exchange between their currencies and the United States dollar pursuant
to section 4421 of title 19, United States Code, and section 5305 of
title 22, United States Code. The Department of the Treasury will
strengthen its ongoing currency analysis and address the lack of
transparency by foreign governments in currency markets.

*Chapter 6. Review of Existing Trade Agreements (Section 2(f) of AFTP)*

The United States has 14 comprehensive trade agreements in force with 20
countries. There is significant scope to modernize existing U.S. trade
agreements so that trade terms are aligned with American interests while
addressing underlying causes of imbalances. This includes lowering
foreign tariff rates for American exporters, improving transparency and
predictability in foreign regulatory regimes, improving market access
for U.S. agricultural products, strengthening rules of origin to ensure
the benefits of the agreement appropriately flow to the parties, and
improving the alignment of our trading partners with U.S. approaches to
economic security and non-market policies and practices.

*Chapter 7. Identification of New Agreements to Secure Market Access
(Section 2(g) of AFTP)*

The negotiation of new trade agreements with trading partners offers an
opportunity for the United States to knock down non-reciprocal barriers
to U.S. exports, especially for agricultural products, and reshape the
global trading system in ways that promote supply chain resilience,
manufacturing reshoring, and economic and national security alignment
with partners. The Report identifies countries and sectors which may be
ripe for the negotiation of America First Agreements.

*Chapter 8. Review of Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duty Policies
(Section 2(h) of AFTP)*

Administered by DOC, anti-dumping and countervailing duties (AD/CVD) are
a critical tool to address unfair trade and support domestic
manufacturing. Recommendations include considering the addition of new
countries to the list of non-market economies, methodologies to better
implement AD/CVD laws, and more-active self-initiation of new
investigations.

*Chapter 9. Review of the De Minimis Exemption (Section 2(i) of AFTP)*

Packages containing imports valued at $800 or less imported by one
person on one day currently enter the United States duty free. The
United States should end this duty-free *de minimis* exemption.  This
exception has resulted in approximately $10.8 billion in foregone tariff
revenue in 2024 alone.  *De minimis* shipments also pose serious
security risks to the United States. The *de minimis* exemption is a
means by which fentanyl, counterfeit goods, and various deadly and
high-risk products enter the United States with little scrutiny.
Countless consumer products that don’t meet U.S. health and safety
standards, such as flammable children’s pajamas and lead-ridden plumbing
fixtures, enter the United States through under the *de minimis*
administrative exemption every year.  This is in part because the
government does not collect sufficient data on low-value shipments to
allow for enforcement targeting.  The de minimis exemption also allows
for importers to evade trade enforcement tariffs; for instance, goods
entering through the de minimis exemption do not need to pay duties owed
pursuant to Section 301 of the Trade Act of 1974. With nearly four
million packages arriving each day through the *de minimis* exemption,
it is imperative that DOC and CBP recover our rightful tariff revenue
and defend our national security by ending the exemption.

*Chapter 10. Investigation of Extraterritorial Taxes (Section 2(j) of
AFTP)*

The United States must combat efforts by foreign governments to collect
illegitimate revenue from U.S. firms by imposing various discriminatory
taxes and regulatory regimes aimed to capture the success of America’s
most successful companies—not the least of which are our leading
technology firms. Digital Services Taxes, for example, are often devised
so as to shield most non-U.S. headquartered firms from taxation and
UTPRs determine tax based primarily on factors outside the taxing
jurisdiction. We need to ensure we have available the tools necessary to
defend U.S. interests, including by providing technical assistance in
furtherance of new legislative tools and further investigating
identified taxes to determine the appropriate action.

*Chapter 11. Review of the Government Procurement Agreement (Section
2(k) of AFTP)*

Buy American is the epitome of common-sense public policy. In recent
decades, the United States has weakened domestic procurement preferences
by opening up our procurement market pursuant to the World Trade
Organization’s (WTO) Agreement on Government Procurement (GPA).
Unfortunately, this market access is lopsided. A 2019 report by the
Government Accountability Office (GAO) on the GPA found that in 2010,
the United States reported $837 billion in GPA coverage. This was twice
as much as the $381 billion reported by the next five largest GPA
parties (the EU, Japan, South Korea, Norway, and Canada), despite the
fact that total U.S. procurement was less than that of these five
partners combined. Moreover, some GPA partners open their procurement
markets to third countries who are not parties, forcing U.S. suppliers
to compete for the preferential market access they are entitled to under
the agreement. To address this lack of reciprocity and unfair
competition, the United States should modify or renegotiate the GPA, and
if unsuccessful, withdraw.

An additional challenge is that, although defense procurement is closed
to GPA partners, the Department of Defense still gives countries access
to our huge defense procurement market by negotiating Reciprocal Defense
Procurement (RDP) agreements. Shockingly, these RDPs not only open our
market to foreign suppliers, but also require U.S. firms to move
industrial capacity offshore as a condition of access to the markets of
partner countries. These RDPs must be reviewed to ensure they put
America First.

**Economic and Trade Relations with the People’s Republic of China**

*Chapter 12. Review of the Phase One Agreement (Section 3(a) of AFTP)*

A key success of President Trump’s first term was the Phase One
Agreement with China. Unfortunately, five years following the entry into
force in February 2020, China’s lack of compliance with the Agreement is
a serious concern. China has failed to live up to its commitments on
agriculture, financial services, and protection of intellectual property
(IP) rights. USTR assessed this lack of compliance and recommends
potential responses.

*Chapter 13. Assessment of the Section 301 Four-Year Review (Section
3(b) of AFTP)*

The United States imposed tariffs pursuant to Section 301 of the Trade
Act of 1974 in 2018. The law requires that Section 301 actions be
reviewed every four years by USTR. The first Four-Year Review was
completed in May 2024 and resulted in increases of some of the Section
301 tariffs on China. USTR assessed the results of this review to ensure
the Section 301 action remains fit for purpose.

*Chapter 14. Identification of New Section 301 Actions (Section 3(c) of
AFTP)*

Given the expansiveness of China’s non-market policies and practices,
there may be a need for additional Section 301 investigations. USTR
looked at various elements of China’s non-market policies and practices
to identify additional investigations that may be warranted.

*Chapter 15. Assessment of Permanent Normal Trade Relations (Section
3(d) of AFTP)*

After China was granted Permanent Normal Trade Relations (PNTR) with the
United States in 2000, China took full advantage of the openness of the
U.S. economy by leveraging its state-directed capital investments and
subsidies, industrial overcapacity, lax labor and environmental
standards, forced technology transfer policies, and countless
protectionist measures. U.S. goods imports from China increased from
$100 billion in 2000 to $463.9 billion in 2024, while the U.S. trade
deficit in goods with China ballooned from $83.8 billion in 2000 to
$295.4 billion in 2024. More than two decades after being granted PNTR,
China still embraces a non-market economic system. USTR carefully
reviewed legislative proposals related to PNTR and advised the President
accordingly.

*Chapter 16. Assessment of Reciprocity for Intellectual Property
(Section 3(e) of AFTP)*

The full extent of China’s abusive tactics and practices with respect to
U.S. intellectual property is staggering. The Report catalogues China’s
abuses of this system and recommends appropriate responsive actions to
address China’s massive imbalance on treatment of intellectual property.

**Additional Economic Security Matters**

*Chapter 17. Identification of New Section 232 Actions (Section 4(a) of
AFTP)*

In his first term, President Trump used Section 232 of the Trade
Expansion Act of 1962 to save America’s steel and aluminum industries.
Last week, President Trump invoked Section 232 to impose a 25% tariff on
foreign automobiles and certain automobile parts to protect our
automotive industrial base. Reshoring industrial production in key
sectors is critical to national security, and DOC identified additional
products and sectors that merit consideration for initiation of new
Section 232 investigations, including pharmaceuticals, semiconductors,
and certain critical minerals. 

*Chapter 18. Review of Section 232 Action on Steel and Aluminum (Section
4(b) of AFTP)*

On February 11, President Trump ended all product exclusions and country
exemptions for the Section 232 tariffs on steel and aluminum. DOC
further explains the basis for this needed action and recommends
additional measures for steel and aluminum for that could be taken.

*Chapter 19. Review of U.S. Export Controls (Section 4(c) of AFTP)*

The United States must ensure that its advanced technology does not flow
to our adversaries. Export controls should be simpler, stricter, and
more effective, while promoting U.S. dominance in AI and asserting
global technological leadership.

*Chapter 20. Review of the Office of Information and Communication
Technology and Services (Section 4(d) of AFTP)*

Using his authority under the International Emergency Economic Powers
Act (IEEPA), President Trump created a new Office of Information and
Communication Technology and Services (ICTS) at DOC in his first term.
In the last administration, however, ICTS was underutilized. DOC
reviewed ongoing ICTS work and identified key areas to strengthen and
improve in line with ITCS’s original intent, including expanding its
scope and remit to encompass advanced technologies controlled by our
adversaries.

*Chapter 21. Review of Outbound Investment Restrictions (Section 4(e) of
AFTP)*

President Trump’s America First Investment Policy serves as a basis for
how the Administration will approach investment policy, including on
outbound investment restrictions. Pursuant to the America First
Investment Policy, the National Security Council and the Department of
the Treasury will evaluate options that allow American business to
thrive while ensuring that they, too, put America First and do not
undermine U.S. national security interests. Among the things the
Administration plans to evaluate is whether the scope of outbound
investment restrictions should be expanded to be responsive to
developments in technology and the strategies of countries of concern.

*Chapter 22. Assessment of Foreign Subsidies on Federal Procurement
(Section 4(f) of AFTP)*

Foreign subsidies can disadvantage domestic products in a country’s
government procurement market. The EU has recognized this problem and
introduced the Foreign Subsidies Regulation (FSR) to address distortions
caused by foreign subsidies for public procurement. OMB assessed the
value of the FSR and other policies to tilt the playing field in favor
U.S. producers by strengthening domestic procurement preferences and
closing loopholes.

*Chapter 23. Assessment of Unlawful Migration and Fentanyl Flows from
Canada, Mexico, and China (Section 4(g) of AFTP)*

On February 1, President Trump invoked IEEPA to impose tariffs on
Canada, Mexico, and China to stop the threat posed by the flow of
illegal migrants and drugs into the United States. DOC and the
Department of Homeland Security (DHS) elaborated on the necessity for
the strong action already taken by President Trump and identified
measures to further stem the flow of illegal migrants and drugs into the
United States.

*Chapter 24. E-Commerce Moratorium (Section 3(f) of Presidential
Memorandum on Defending American Companies and Innovators from Overseas
Extortion and Unfair Fines and Penalties)*

At present, WTO Members have committed to a temporary moratorium on
customs duties on electronic transmissions, known popularly as the
e-commerce moratorium. In other words, no tariffs on data flows.
However, some countries—such as India, Indonesia, and South Africa—seek
to tariff the flow of data, thereby destroying the internet and harming
the competitiveness for U.S. companies that are global leaders. USTR
assessed the risks posed by data tariffs and made recommendations to
ensure that the e-commerce moratorium is made permanent.

**Conclusion**

The Report offers a broad, yet substantive, view of U.S. trade policy as
it currently stands, and articulates a roadmap for where it should go.
The U.S. trade policy of today does not address long-standing and
destructive global imbalances, nor does it reflect the reality that the
United States is the most open, innovative, and dynamic economy in the
world, which is why we must work to unlock its full potential.  Now is
the time to pursue trade and economic policies that put the American
economy, the American worker, and our national security first. This
Report provides a foundation to do exactly that.
