---
date: '2025-04-08'
modified_time: 2025-04-08 08:39:54-04:00
published_time: 2025-04-08 08:38:34-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/fact-sheets/2025/04/a-report-of-the-domestic-policy-council/
tags: fact-sheets
title: A Report of the Domestic Policy Council
---
 
Dear Fellow American,

When I won the presidential election on November 5th by historic
margins, it was a resounding victory not just for secure borders and a
strong economy, not just for tackling inflation and keeping men out of
women’s sports, not just for peace through strength and ending
forever-wars, and not just for lower energy costs and “drill, baby,
drill.” It was a resounding victory for common sense. As such, my
Administration is committed to restoring sound policies, including
ridding us of the pulpy, soggy mess that torments too many of our
citizens whenever they drink through a paper straw.

Paper straws are a laughable supposition. They are bad for the
environment, they are unhygienic, they are expensive, they contain
dangerous forever chemicals, and—as with most things advanced by the
previous Administration—they do not work. This is not rocket
science—water and other drinks dissolve paper, rendering these straws
useless for their sole purpose. A product of a fictitious yet frequently
cited statistic, they are inefficient and wasteful. It is ludicrous that
anyone saw fit to enforce their use and that these useless implements
have infiltrated our marketplaces as much as they have. Among the many
things that my Administration is having to roll back, this is among the
most absurd.

For years the Fake News media worked with the previous Administration to
support the disastrous Green New Scam, singling out plastic straws for
elimination. These policies are wasteful and ruinous. Fueled by the
widespread fearmongering, their irrational campaign has resulted in
sweeping mandates that bar the use of traditional straws. However, it is
obvious to all but the previous Administration that pushing for the
universal adoption of a dissolving straw comprised of forever chemicals
is a terrible idea. There is no reason for the American people to
continue suffering the indignity of this useless product. As such, I am
ending the Green New Scam and bringing common sense back to our
beverages.

In the pages of this report, the National Strategy to End the Use of
Paper Straws, you will find a whole host of reasons as to why paper
straws are unsatisfactory and a plan of action to combat their promotion
and usage. Common sense requires us to do battle with the ridiculous,
whatever form it takes. The end of paper straws is yet another victory
in this campaign.

Sincerely,

Donald J. Trump**  
  
**

# <span id="_Toc193986889">EXECUTIVE SUMMARY</span>

When American citizens visit a coffee shop or restaurant, they deserve
effective and safe utensils. Too often, they have not had that option
because of absurd government mandates to use paper straws.

Consumers deserve better choices and better products. Paper is a poor
substitute for plastic when conveying a liquid. Scientific research
corroborates common sense. Paper straws are not only an annoyance but
also a genuine risk to human health, public safety, and the environment.
Across nearly every relevant criterion, replacing plastic straws with
paper alternatives is not justified:

-   Functionality: Paper straws lack the structural integrity of their
    plastic alternatives.
-   Safety: They are hazardous to children and people with disabilities.
-   Health: They contain PFAS chemicals linked to major health
    conditions.
-   Equal Protection: They unduly burden Americans with disabilities.
-   Environmental Impact: Plastic straws represent an insignificant
    share of pollution.
-   Cost: Paper straws can cost up to 400% more than conventional
    plastic straws.

Despite the scientific evidence and their evident failures, states and
municipalities throughout the country have adopted policies to
discourage single-use plastics and promote the use of paper straws. The
previous Administration mandated paper straws as a domestic policy
priority.

President Trump will use all levers available to him to restore common
sense and end the use of paper straws. The Administration will adopt a
government-wide approach to target paper straws through clear government
communications, efficient government procurement, and the promotion of
health and safety. Key agencies have developed and begun implementing
policies to ensure that American consumers are not forced to use paper
straws.

# <span id="_Toc193986890">INTRODUCTION: THE STRAW THAT BROKE AMERICA’S BACK</span>

When Americans visit a coffee shop or cafeteria, they should expect to
find utensils that are functional and safe, not wasteful or hazardous.
Yet for the past several years, they often have not. In too many
instances, the American people have had only one terrible option: the
paper straw.

The straw was an American invention. Civil War veteran Marvin C. Stone
was tired of his rye grass straw ruining the flavor of his mint julips.
So, he decided to tinker in his Washington, D.C., residence. He wrapped
paper around a pencil, glued it, and then figured out how to add
paraffin wax to maintain structure and integrity. He filed a patent for
the “artificial straw” (U.S. Patent No. 375,962). Stone’s Patent Paper
Julep straws became a national sensation. The Stone Straw Factory became
an industrial behemoth, pumping out eight million straws a day by the
1950s (Kelly, 2019).

As American technology, industry, and culture advanced, the paper straw
was supplanted. Americans could not use paper straws for their fast-food
soda cups, which featured cross-haired covers that tore at the paper.
Consumers demanded the inexpensive, flexible, and durable plastic straw.
Aside from apple pie, there’s hardly anything more American than the
plastic straw (Gibbens, 2019).

But then, Washington, D.C., stepped in to force paper straws back into
our citizens’ mouths. The Biden Administration adopted a government-wide
approach to stigmatize the convenient plastic utensil. States and
municipalities further infringed upon their citizens’ consumer
preferences.

Paper straws still had their drawbacks. They’d tear. They’d
disintegrate. They could even still interfere with the taste. Marvin C.
Stone had addressed these issues with paraffin wax (Kelly, 2019).
So-called “green” manufacturers address it with PFAS “forever
chemicals.” A government-sponsored social experiment coerced Americans
to ingest chemicals. Scientists had to play catch-up, and the alarm
bells started to ring about the danger of these chemicals to human
health.

These bells were simply ignored by the Biden Administration and by some
state and local governments. The voices of individuals with
disabilities—who had difficulty with modern straw alternatives and
therefore could not always receive equal accommodation in public
spaces—were marginalized.

President Trump will end this coercive social experiment, which has come
at a substantial cost to consumers and a scientifically incalculable
cost to human health. He will restore common sense and protect the
health and safety of American citizens.

# <span id="_Toc193986891">SECTION I: THE PAPER-THIN CASE FOR THE PAPER STRAW</span>

Advocates for paper straws cite the oft-repeated claim that Americans
use 500 million plastic straws per day. Media outlets uncritically
repeat the statistic, and businesses and government entities rapidly
started banning plastic straws in response. But it is completely made
up. The number was invented by a nine-year-old student who performed
cursory “research” on plastic straws by making a few phone calls and
then doing some back-of-the-napkin math (Lei & Coleman, 2018).

Much like the 500 million statistic, the policy rationale underlying
plastic straw bans is completely unscientific. The data in this report
demonstrates that plastic straws are not the correct target for efforts
to clean up the ocean.

The experience that Stuart, Florida, had with paper straws is
particularly illustrative. In 2019, Stuart passed a ban on plastic
straws. For years, residents, tourists, and small businesses complained
about the paper straw mandate. After experiencing the failures of this
policy firsthand, Stuart decided to return to common sense in February
of this year and repeal its plastic straw ban. Immediately, local small
businesses and residents were overjoyed. A local restaurant owner told a
reporter that his “customers will be really happy” about the change
because paper straws are ineffective and customers were tired of having
to get two or three straws just to finish one drink (Garcia & Sutton,
2025).

Communities across the country should follow Stuart’s lead. After
experiencing the trial run of paper straws, Americans have
overwhelmingly decided that they are ineffective. States, local
governments, and businesses across the country are listening to American
consumers and realizing that it is high time to end bans on plastic
straws.

## <span id="_Toc193986892">Functionality</span>

The sole function of a straw is to serve as a conduit for beverages, so
its material should be water-resistant and capable of retaining shape
when exposed to liquid. Paper fails in this regard for basic reasons.
Paper is primarily made from cellulose, a complex carbohydrate found in
plant cell walls. These cellulose fibers are held together by strong
hydrogen bonds. Water molecules also have hydrogen bonds, and they can
form hydrogen bonds with the hydroxyl (OH) groups on the cellulose
fibers. When paper gets wet, water molecules disrupt the hydrogen bonds
between the cellulose fibers. The water molecules effectively
“interfere” with the bonds, weakening the structure of the paper. With
the hydrogen bonds weakened, the cellulose fibers can separate more
easily, leading to the paper becoming weak and prone to tearing.

American consumers experience this reaction of paper to water nearly any
time they use a paper straw. If left in a beverage for more than a few
minutes, a paper straw begins to disintegrate, losing its shape and
usability. The effect is measurable. Researchers at North Carolina State
University studied paper straws that are commonly found on the market
and demonstrated that after less than 30 minutes of exposure to liquid,
paper straws experienced a 70% to 90% reduction in compressive strength
(Gutierrez et al., 2019). Paper straws fail to adequately perform their
sole function.

## <span id="_Toc193986893">Safety</span>

Many people with disabilities depend on plastic straws in order to
participate fully in society and enjoy a beverage with their families at
a restaurant. So do young children. The functional failures of paper
straws are felt most acutely by these vulnerable Americans and can even
pose dangers to them.

### <span id="_Toc193986894">Choking Hazards</span>

As paper straws disintegrate, they pose a choking hazard—particularly
for young children. Other developed countries are waking up to the
reality of this unacceptable risk, and the Netherlands and Finland have
both issued official warnings about the dangers of paper straws.

After asking consumers for comment, the Netherlands Food and Consumer
Product Safety Authority (NVWA) found 400 people who reported that their
child or someone with special needs choked on part of a paper straw that
disintegrated during use. In 15% of these cases, the person choking on
the paper straw required intervention to dislodge the paper straw and
restore normal breathing. The NVWA determined that the risk posed by
paper straws is severe enough to warrant a formal caution, and it
advised parents and caregivers to be careful when young children and
people with disabilities use a paper straw. In its analysis, the NVWA
noted that paper straws are dangerous choking hazards because they
“become weak and disintegrate” during the course of normal use
(McLaren-Kennedy, 2022).

The Finnish Food Authority also has received reports of infants and
young children choking on paper straws. As in the cases investigated by
the NVWA, in these instances paper straws broke down during regular use
and posed a choking hazard to young children. In addition to the risk
posed by choking, the Authority also noted that the harmful chemicals
inside paper straws pose additional health hazards (Finnish Food
Authority, 2022).

### <span id="_Toc193986895">Other Medical Risks</span>

Alternative straws are an inferior substitute for people with
disabilities for a myriad of medical reasons. Metal straws can pose
severe sensory and safety risks for people with disabilities that limit
jaw control. Glass straws pose safety risks for people who suffer from
tremors and other conditions that limit dexterity. Paper straws are not
durable enough, and they break down too fast for people who require
extra time to consume their beverages. Reusable straws need to be washed
frequently, and not all people with disabilities are able to complete
this chore easily. Additionally, alternative straws do not offer the
necessary flexibility or functionality for people with physical
limitations (Danovich & Godoy, 2018).

Advocates for people with disabilities have voiced serious concerns
about campaigns to replace plastic straws (Martinez, 2018). But their
concerns and requirements have not been adequately heeded or respected.
Some jurisdictions that prohibit plastic straws contain provisions
allowing restaurants to make an exception for people with disabilities
(Kessler, 2019). But in practice, many restaurants are unaware of these
exceptions. The unfortunate result is that Americans with disabilities
are excluded from society and have to face an unfair burden to
accomplish basic tasks like visiting a restaurant with their family and
friends (Danovich & Godoy, 2018).

For example, Seattle’s plastic straw ban allows restaurants to give out
plastic straws to people with disabilities. While this exemption to the
law exists, it is rarely used. Advocates for people with disabilities in
Seattle asked over a dozen restaurants if they had plastic straws
available for people who need them, and each restaurant said that they
did not (Danovich & Godoy, 2018).

This result is not surprising. Seattle’s municipal code does not codify
an exemption to the plastic straw ban for people with disabilities.
Rather, it only empowers government bureaucrats to make one-year
exemptions to the plastic straw ban. It is no surprise that many
restaurants do not have the time or resources to seek annual permission
from the plastic straw bureaucrats at Seattle City Hall (Hellmann,
2018). Seattle’s plastic straw regulation puts small businesses and
people with disabilities in a difficult position.

Restaurants and other businesses should not be placed in the position of
having to assess whether a particular individual has a disability. Nor
should people with disabilities need to request such a basic
accommodation as having a functional straw when visiting a public
establishment. Unlike the paper straw, government regulations promoting
their use are rigid and inflexible.

## <span id="_Toc193986896">Health</span>

Paper straws contain harmful PFAS (Per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances),
which are often referred to as “forever chemicals” because of their
extremely long lifespans. The EPA has determined that many PFAS are
harmful to human health, and they have been linked to harms affecting
reproductive health, developmental delays in children, cancer, hormone
imbalance, obesity, and other dangerous health conditions (Environmental
Protection Agency \[EPA\], 2021).

PFAS are added to paper straws because these potent chemicals are
strongly resistant to grease, oil, water, and heat. In addition to
papers straws, PFAS are also added as waterproofing agents to products
clearly not fit for human digestion, such as carpet (Beesoon et al.,
2012), stain-resistant fabric and upholstery (Schreder & Goldberg,
2022), carpet cleaners (Geller, 2023), nail polish (Kluger, 2023),
shoes, firefighting foam (Ginty & Lindwall, 2024), and artificial turf
(Toxic Use Reduction Institute, 2020).

The CDC estimates that some types of PFAS chemicals persist in humans
for decades before breaking down.

<figure>
<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>Type of PFAS</strong></td>
<td><strong>Half-Lives in Humans</strong></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>PFOA</td>
<td>2.1–10.1 years</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>PFOS</td>
<td>3.3–27 years</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>PFHxS</td>
<td>4.7–35 years</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>PFNA</td>
<td>2.5–4.3 years</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>PFBS</td>
<td>665 hours</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>PFBA</td>
<td>72–81 hours</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</figure>

(Centers for Disease Control and Prevention \[CDC\], 2020).

As a result of the chemicals’ long lifespans, they gradually build up in
humans and animals over time. Researchers have detected serious health
implications as a result. The EPA conducted an analysis of current
peer-reviewed scientific studies and found that PFAS exposure is linked
to concerning health risks including:

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/04/Screenshot-2025-04-06-145201.png?w=1024"
decoding="async" data-fetchpriority="high"
sizes="(max-width: 1261px) 100vw, 1261px"
srcset="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/04/Screenshot-2025-04-06-145201.png 1261w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/04/Screenshot-2025-04-06-145201.png?resize=300,92 300w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/04/Screenshot-2025-04-06-145201.png?resize=768,234 768w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/04/Screenshot-2025-04-06-145201.png?resize=1024,313 1024w"
width="1261" height="385" />
</figure>

Additional studies have also linked PFAS exposure to other negative
population-wide trends, such as sleep issues in young adults (Li et al.,
2024).

Scientists and regulators have had substantial concerns about PFAS
chemicals for decades. In 2001, the United States signed, but did not
ratify, the Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants,
joined by 151 other countries. The Stockholm Convention added the first
PFAS to its list of regulated chemicals in 2009, restricting the use of
PFOS (“Perfluorooctane sulfonic acid.”) (Secretariat of the Stockholm
Convention, 2009). In 2019, the Convention added another kind of PFAS,
called PFOA (“Perfluorooctanoic acid”) to its list (Earth Negotiations
Bulletin, 2019). In 2022, it banned use of another PFAS called PFHxS
(“Perfluorohexane sulfonic acid”) (Earth Negotiations Bulletin, 2022).

In 2020, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) announced a “Voluntary
Phase-Out by Industry of Certain PFAS Used in Food Packaging” of certain
types of PFAS (Food and Drug Administration \[FDA\], 2020). In 2024, the
FDA announced results, noting that some “grease-proofing substances
containing Per and Polyfluoroalkyl Substances (PFAS) are no longer being
sold by manufacturers for food contact use in the U.S. market” (FDA,
2024).

As a result of increased awareness and voluntary reductions by American
industry, the most common kinds of PFAS have become less common, leading
to declining blood levels of the most common types of PFAS in humans,
according to measurements taken by the CDC’s National Health and
Nutrition Examination Survey, as the following chart from them shows
(CDC, 2024).

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/04/Picture5.jpg"
decoding="async" sizes="(max-width: 368px) 100vw, 368px"
srcset="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/04/Picture5.jpg 368w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/04/Picture5.jpg?resize=300,221 300w"
width="368" height="271" />
</figure>

(CDC, 2024).

But such trends may be misleading. The FDA and industry voluntary
actions dealt with only a small portion of consumer products containing
PFAS. No action has been taken to remove PFAS from paper straws.
Moreover, as manufacturers have worked to phase out the PFAS chemicals
that have attracted regulator attention, they have sometimes simply
migrated to using less-studied PFAS chemicals. As a 2021 study by
University of Florida researchers put it: “The fate, transport, and
potential toxic effects of these novel replacement PFAS have yet to be
fully assessed” (Timshina et al., 2021). The trends regarding thousands
of other less-studied PFAS chemicals are unknown. The health
consequences may be rising.

Studies have consistently found that paper and other plant-based straws
contain significant amounts of PFAS chemicals, unlike plastic straws.
The same 2021 study by researchers affiliated with the University of
Florida found that “While the plastic straws had no measurable PFAS, 21
PFAS were detected in the paper and other plant-based straws” (Timshina
et al., 2021). This graphic from their paper shows their results:

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/04/Picture4.jpg"
decoding="async" sizes="(max-width: 621px) 100vw, 621px"
srcset="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/04/Picture4.jpg 621w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/04/Picture4.jpg?resize=300,108 300w"
width="621" height="224" />
</figure>

(Timshina et al., 2021).

The paper discusses why “biodegradable” products often use PFAS:
“Unfortunately, many of the products marketed as biodegradable,
especially those made from paper, have been shown to contain PFAS to
make them resistant to rapid deterioration from contact with grease or
other fluids” (Timshina et al., 2021).

The researchers created a graph showing the amount of PFAS in each brand
of straw they tested. Every plastic straw had zero detectable PFAS.
Every paper straw had some, with most having about 1 nanogram of two
types of PFAS, and one brand having near 30 nanograms consisting of 13
types of PFAS chemicals.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/04/GRAPH.jpg"
decoding="async" loading="lazy"
sizes="auto, (max-width: 624px) 100vw, 624px"
srcset="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/04/GRAPH.jpg 624w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/04/GRAPH.jpg?resize=300,128 300w"
width="624" height="266" />
</figure>

(Timshina et al., 2021).

Researchers also found that different water temperatures, ranging from
39° Fahrenheit to 194° Fahrenheit, did not make a difference in the
amount of PFAS that leached into drinking water. Their paper concludes:
“The presence of PFAS in plant-based drinking straws demonstrates that
they are not fully biodegradable, contributing to the direct human
ingestion of PFAS and to the cycle of PFAS between waste streams and the
environment” (Timshina et al., 2021).

The finding replicates, and European researchers have also found
dramatically higher concentrations of PFAS in paper straws compared to
plastic (Boisacq et al., 2023).

Belgian researchers tested 39 straws from Europe and Asia and found:

PFAS were found to be present in almost all types of straws, but
primarily in those made from plant-based materials. These “eco-friendly”
plant-based straws are not necessarily a more sustainable alternative to
plastic straws, because they can be considered as an additional source
of PFAS exposure (Boisacq et al., 2023).

How serious is the health risk posed by the amounts of PFAS detected in
paper straws? Researchers note that the daily dose considered safe for
humans by the EPA is 1000x times higher than the amount leached from the
average paper straw. European guidelines, however, set the safe level at
only about 30x higher (Timshina et al., 2021). If a person used the
worst paper straw found in the study, a single use of the straw would
put them close to the daily safe intake of PFAS deemed safe by the most
cautious health authorities. As the study puts it:

PFOA leached from a single straw in this study (average 1.53 ± 0.122
ng/straw) would contribute only 0.1% of the EPA reference dose (20
ng/kg/day) for direct human ingestion of PFOA…

However, nine US states have developed more stringent drinking water
guidelines (Post, 2021) and other agencies have proposed stricter daily
intake limits for PFOA (Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease
Registry, 3 ng/kg/day (Breysse, 2018)) or total PFAS (European Food
Safety Authority, 0.63 ng/kg/day (European Food Safety Auth., 2020))
(Timshina et al., 2021).

A total shift to using paper straws would entail a small but appreciable
increase in Americans’ intake of PFAS chemicals. Americans, therefore,
are placed at an unnecessarily higher health risk every time they drink
from paper straws.

From food packaging (FDA, 2025) and clothing (Toxic-Free Future, 2022)
to lipstick (FDA, 2024) and even rainwater (McGrath, 2022), PFAS are
difficult—if not quite impossible—for Americans to avoid entirely. In a
near worst-case scenario, where an individual uses the worst brand of
paper straw twice a day, merely the use of paper straws could push that
individual over what European regulatory agencies consider to be safe.
In practice, individuals are already consuming plenty of PFAS via other
means, so adding a paper straw to one’s routine could easily put a
person over the limit considered safe by European regulators.

While the amount of PFAS in paper straws does not necessarily constitute
a public health emergency, it adds to already-serious human consumption
levels of PFAS. At the very least, scientific findings strongly suggest
that paper straws should not be promoted by the federal government.

## <span id="_Toc193986897">Environmental Impact</span>

Plastic litter in the oceans is an eyesore, contributes to microplastic
pollution, and can cause trouble for wildlife. As the EPA put it in
2019:

“In one year, an average of eight million tons of marine plastic litter
ended up in oceans across the world due to poor management of solid
waste, insufficient infrastructure, littering, and dumping. This
mismanaged waste degrades our ecosystems, affects the health of marine
life, and threatens sectors within the economy …” (EPA, 2019).

Following a viral video of a sea turtle that suffered because a plastic
straw got stuck in its nose, many state and local governments rushed to
ban them (Rosenbaum, 2018). But targeting plastic straws does almost
nothing to clean up marine debris, even as it imposes a harm on the
American people.

Plastic straws make up a mere .025% of all plastic in oceans (Gibbens,
2019). Put another way, they comprise just 1/40th of 1% of plastic in
oceans. Put yet another way, for every plastic straw that is littered,
4,000 times as much plastic is littered in the form of other plastic
items.

Those statistics show that the overall threat posed by plastic straws is
tiny and suggest that the product has been unfairly demonized and
focused on.

Americans, by and large, are good stewards of the environment and put
trash in the garbage rather than in the oceans. As a result, the United
States is responsible for a tiny 0.25% of all global plastic ocean
waste, (Meijer et al., 2021) even as the United States produces more
than one quarter of the world’s economic output (Ip, 2024).

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/04/Picture2.jpg"
decoding="async" loading="lazy"
sizes="auto, (max-width: 546px) 100vw, 546px"
srcset="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/04/Picture2.jpg 546w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/04/Picture2.jpg?resize=300,198 300w"
width="546" height="361" />
</figure>

(Meijer et al., 2021).

Combining this fact with the statistics about plastic straws as a
proportion of all plastic litter, it becomes clear that if plastic
straws were banned entirely throughout America, the amount of global
ocean plastic would fall only about .0000625%—an infinitesimal change.
American plastic straws make up just 1/16,000th of 1% of global plastic
pollution. In other words, for every plastic straw saved, 1,600,000
times as much plastic would still be littered in the form of other
plastic items.

Banning plastic straws or promoting paper alternatives will not save the
environment. These statistics show that the campaign to ban straws was
based more on feelings than on facts. Even many activists now accept
that, with the World Resources Institute calling plastic straw bans
merely “putting a finger on a spigot” and saying it “won’t solve our
plastic problem” (World Resources Institute, 2018).

There is no consensus about whether paper or plastic straws lead to more
air pollution or other emissions. As one study summarizes:

Zanghelini et al (2020) … concluded that plastic drinking straws have
better environmental performance in climate change emission compared
with paper disposable straws. In contrast, Chitaka et al (2020) reported
higher climate change emissions of plastic straws than paper ones due to
the use of coal for polypropylene production in South Africa (Gao, A.
L., & Wan, Y., 2022).

Considering the mixed evidence, which depends on the location of
production, the scientific literature provides no basis for the
conclusion that banning plastic straws will reduce environmental
emissions.

If there is *any* environmental benefit from banning plastic straws, it
is scientifically indiscernible for air pollution, and it rounds to zero
when compared to ocean plastic pollution in general. Banning plastic
straws has greatly inconvenienced consumers, for approximately zero
environmental impact.

## <span id="_Toc193986898">Cost</span>

Paper straws cost dramatically more than plastic straws. A plastic straw
can cost about a half-cent while a paper straw costs about
two-and-a-half cents—or in other words, 400% more (Ell, 2018). The two
additional cents don’t make economic common sense. In the private
sector, the increased costs of purchasing paper straws are passed on to
the consumer. After four disastrous years for the economy, the last
thing American families need is to be paying more every time they go out
to eat.

In addition to harming consumers, paper straws are also wasting taxpayer
dollars. A 6,000-unit case of paper straws approved by the U.S.
Department of Agriculture (USDA) for government contracting costs
$113.31 (U.S. Department of Agriculture \[USDA\], n.d.) while a case of
6,000 plastic straws costs only $59.99 on Amazon (Amazon, n.d.). Under
Joe Biden’s paper straw federal procurement mandate, taxpayers could
have been paying upwards of 88% more each time the government placed an
order for straws. Americans elected President Trump to restore common
sense to our government, and he is cutting government waste on
ineffective plastic straws.

## <span id="_Toc193986899">Consumer Preferences</span>

Most Americans (59%) would prefer to always receive a plastic drinking
straw when they order a beverage at a fast-food restaurant, according to
an IPSOS survey of some 2,000 Americans (IPSOS, 2018). That preference
is bipartisan; majorities of Republicans, Democrats, and independents
all said they prefer to always receive a plastic drinking straw at fast
food restaurants (IPSOS, 2018).

Paper straws are far more likely to aggravate consumers. Only 4% of
Americans found using plastic straws “unpleasant”, whereas 7 times as
many reported that using paper straws was “unpleasant” (IPSOS, 2018).

Preferences for plastic straws are greater among people with kids; 64%
of parents said they preferred to always receive a plastic drinking
straw when they order a beverage at a fast-food restaurant and 36% rated
paper straws “unpleasant” (IPSOS, 2018). Young children may be
particularly likely to use paper straws in ways which lead them to fall
apart faster, and as a result, paper straws make it difficult for
children to finish their drinks.

The general results replicate. In 2023, a YouGov poll found that 33% of
Americans “disliked” or “hated” paper straws while only 21% “disliked”
or “hated” plastic straws. Only 26% said plastic straws should be banned
(YouGov, 2023).

Americans, by and large, are clearly not big fans of paper straws. That
is no surprise considering how paper straws rapidly degrade and leach
PFAS chemicals into beverages. American consumer preferences reinforce
the case against bans and restrictions on plastic straws.

# <span id="_Toc193986900">SECTION II: ONE STRAW TOO FAR</span>

Despite their self-evident dysfunction and the scientific evidence of
their risks, paper straws have proliferated across the country. This was
no coincidence, but the results of deliberated efforts by public
officials to disfavor single-use plastics and mandate use of paper
straws.

## <span id="_Toc193986901">State and Local Government Mandates</span>

In the absence of federal bans, several states led the charge with their
own regulations targeting plastic straws. In 2018, California became the
first state to pass a law restricting plastic straw use so that
full-service restaurants can only provide plastic straws upon request,
not by default (Ellis & Moon, 2018). In the years since, a number of
other states have implemented bans or strong restrictions on plastic
straws. Seven additional states have since banned giving out plastic
straws unless a customer specifically requests them: Maine, New Jersey,
New York, Oregon, Rhode Island, Vermont, and Washington. Delaware has
passed a similar law, and enforcement will begin in July (Williams,
2025). Though they vary in strictness, the state laws have collectively
accelerated the shift to paper straws along the East and West Coast
regions.

Even before state-wide actions, city and county governments were
instrumental in forcing a switch to paper straws. Dozens of
municipalities—especially coastal and environmentally conscious
cities—enacted plastic straw bans or restrictions, including:

• Seattle, WA, became the first major U.S. city to ban plastic straws in
2018. As of July 2018, restaurants and food service providers in Seattle
cannot offer single-use plastic straws or utensils. They must use
compostable or paper straws instead. Seattle’s pioneering ordinance set
the stage for other cities to follow (Archie & Smith, 2018).

• Washington, D.C., banned plastic straws in restaurants in 2019, making
it the second major city (after Seattle) with such a law. Businesses had
a phase-out period to switch to paper or other alternatives before fines
began in mid-2019. D.C.’s Department of Energy & Environment began
enforcing the straw ban as part of a broader sustainable utensil
initiative (Schmidt, 2019).

• San Francisco, CA, approved a comprehensive Plastic Reduction
Ordinance in 2018 that bans the distribution of plastic straws,
stirrers, cocktail picks, and similar items, including those labeled
“compostable” plastic. The ordinance requires eateries to use paper,
bamboo, or other non-plastic straws. Violators can face fines of
$100–$500. The city also banned certain take-out containers and
restricted plastic utensils under this law (Britschgi, 2018).

• Miami Beach, FL, banned single-use plastic straws and stirrers in
2019—particularly focusing on eliminating them from beaches, parks, and
sidewalk cafés. Miami Beach had initially banned straws on beaches and
city properties, and later extended the rule to all businesses (with
paper or plant-based straws as alternatives). Nearby communities in
South Florida, like Fort Lauderdale and St. Petersburg, implemented
similar bans (Gross, 2019).

• Malibu, CA, prohibited restaurants from providing or selling plastic
straws, stir sticks, and cutlery in 2018. Businesses switched to paper
straws or other eco-friendly versions. Malibu was an early adopter and
part of a wave of smaller California coastal cities to enact such bans
(Kesbeh, 2018).

• New York City, NY, implemented a law in 2021 forbidding food service
establishments from providing plastic straws except on customer request
(and completely banning plastic stirrers). Establishments must stock
some plastic straws for disabled patrons who request them, but otherwise
the default must be paper or another non-plastic straw. This essentially
ended automatic plastic straw usage in NYC and led many restaurants to
adopt paper straws to comply (Cather, 2025).

• Los Angeles, CA, stopped short of a full ban, but as of April 2019
implemented a “straws upon request” ordinance. Restaurants in LA cannot
give a plastic straw unless a customer asks. While not an outright ban,
this rule significantly curtailed plastic straw distribution. Many LA
businesses introduced paper straws or eliminated straws to avoid any
issues. (Fry & Reyes, 2019).

These local laws directly boosted adoption of paper straws in those
markets. Businesses had to source paper or other compliant straws to
avoid fines. In some cases, local governments also ran “straw on
request” programs or distributed paper straws at city events to model
the change.

A patchwork of state and local policies across the U.S. has thus created
the regulatory push for paper straws—by either banning plastic versions
outright or heavily restricting their use—well before any national
mandate. This regulatory trend pressured many businesses to adopt paper
straws in order to stay compliant with the law.

## <span id="_Toc193986902">Federal Government Mandates</span>

While our economy faltered, Joe Biden made enacting a federal paper
straw mandate one of his top domestic policy priorities.

In December 2021, Biden issued Executive Order 10457, which made it a
federal priority to “incentivize markets for sustainable products”
(Executive Order 10457, 2021). The order began a government-wide
approach to promoting products like paper straws. It directed the
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to identify sustainable products
and services. It directed the Council on Environmental Quality (CEQ) to
review federal food procurement policies with the goal of reducing
greenhouse gas emissions and promoting sustainability. Additionally, it
ordered the General Services Administration (GSA) to track disclosure of
greenhouse gas emissions and other sustainability-related actions by
federal suppliers. It also established the “Buy Clean Task Force” to
“provide recommendations to the Chair of CEQ and the Director of OMB,
through the Administrator of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy”
(Executive Order 10457, 2021).

Biden’s expansive order further mandated the implementation of training
programs for federal employees to ensure their compliance. Biden tasked
the Office of Personnel Management to work with the Department of Energy
(DOE), the EPA, the GSA, and federal employee unions in developing these
training programs.

The executive order also established a Federal Chief Sustainability
Officer, and ordered this bureaucrat to engage with agency heads and
stakeholders in implementing Biden’s order. Additionally, the order
directed each agency to designate an Agency Chief Sustainability
Officer. To ensure that woke procurement policies were being pursued
across all federal agencies, Biden’s executive order also created a
Chief Sustainability Officer Council to advise the Office of Management
and Budget (OMB) and CEQ on sustainability. Furthermore, the executive
order also directed the heads of every government agency to develop and
implement annual “Sustainability Plans” and “Climate Adaptation and
Resilience Plans.”

In July 2024, the Biden Administration released a report detailing its
government-wide approach to foist paper straws on the American people
(“Mobilizing Federal Action,” 2024). The entire report demonstrates the
Biden Administration’s misplaced priorities. For instance, instead of
working to fix a record-breaking border crisis, Biden directed Customs
and Border Protection (CBP) to collect data about how much plastic the
United States imports and exports. Instead of working to address the
crime crisis, Biden directed the Department of Justice (DOJ) to focus on
ways to procure less plastic. Instead of working to protect Americans,
Biden directed the Department of Defense (DOD) to develop expansive
programs to reduce plastic waste.

In addition to wasting resources at CBP, DOJ, and DOD, the Biden
Administration also leveraged the Consumer Products Safety Commission,
the Department of Commerce (DOC), the DOE, the Department of the
Interior (DOI), the Department of Labor, the Department of
Transportation, the Department of Education, the Department of Health
and Human Services (HHS), the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration (NASA), the Department of State, the National Science
Foundation, the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID), and
the USDA to work on reducing plastic waste and promoting paper straws.
In all respects, Biden launched a government-wide campaign against
plastic straws.

Biden’s attack on plastic straws led to egregious wastes of taxpayer
dollars. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA)
issued wasteful grants to attack plastic straws. NOAA gave the Parley
Foundation $345,000 to help nightclubs in Quintana Roo, Mexico, reduce
their use of plastic straws (“Raising Awareness,” n.d.). Additionally,
NOAA paid the Vermilion Sea Institute $154,301 to help Mexican
businesses transition to biodegradable takeout containers. In addition
to these programs sending taxpayer dollars to Mexico, NOAA issued the
following concerning grants (“The NOAA Marine Debris Program,” n.d.):

-   $200,000 for the Clean Water Fund to design a training program for
    businesses, colleges, and state government agencies to reduce
    single-use plastics.
-   $134,178 for One Cool Earth to have California K-12 students sort
    lunchtime waste and conduct “waste audits.”
-   $361,395 for restaurants, cafeterias, and convenience stores in
    Miami to reduce single-use plastics.

# <span id="_Toc193986903">SECTION III: RESTORING COMMON SENSE</span>

The Biden Administration enacted a government-wide effort to promote
paper straws. The Trump Administration is launching a government-wide
approach to undo Biden’s policies and end the use of paper straws.

President Trump’s Executive Order 14208 established that it is “the
policy of the United States to end the use of paper straws.” The order
directs the heads of all departments and agencies to eliminate the
procurement of paper straws, overturn all Biden Administration policies
disfavoring plastic straws, implement contract policies to pressure
states and entities that ban plastic straws, and explore all available
tools to ensure this policy is enacted nationwide. The Trump
Administration is already delivering results for the American people and
executing this policy. The below information is a snapshot of what has
already been done and what the Trump Administration is working on to
ensure that this policy is fully enacted.

## <span id="_Toc193986904">Guiding Principles</span>

The left’s attacks on plastic straws represent a small battle in a much
larger campaign. The left wants the American people to endure hardship
to advance radical climate policies. In contrast, common sense dictates
that America should pursue human flourishing and a healthy environment.

The Trump Administration’s return to common sense and restoration of
plastic straws will follow these guiding principles:

1.  Federal agencies should be creative and use every available policy
    lever to end the use of paper straws nationwide.

-   Making America Healthy Again is a top priority for the Trump
    Administration, and federal agencies should take all available
    actions to protect the American people from the health and safety
    risks of paper straws.

<!-- -->

-   Taxpayer dollars should never be wasted, so no federal contracts or
    grants should fund paper straws or support any entities that ban
    plastic straws.

<!-- -->

-   The federal government’s policies should be driven by gold-standard
    science and not by woke messaging.

The Trump Administration is committed to fully implementing this
executive order and ending the use of paper straws. The below section
lists what actions the Trump Administration has already taken and what
actions it can take to fully advance this policy.

## <span id="_Toc193986905">Strategic Priorities</span>

### <span id="_Toc193986906">Ensuring Equal Protection</span>

The Biden Administration marginalized the voices of citizens with
disabilities, even after disability rights activists organized to
amplify their concerns. All Americans, regardless of their disability
status, deserve an equal right to drink from a straw at a restaurant.

The Trump Administration will take care to enforce federal law to
equally protect the rights of all citizens in places of public
accommodation.

### <span id="_Toc193986907">Promoting Health & Safety with Scientific Integrity</span>

The Biden Administration was aware of the threats that paper straws
posed due to their choking risk and due to the presence of PFAS inside
paper straws, yet it decided to promote them anyway. The American people
overwhelmingly rejected this approach to governance when they gave
President Trump a mandate to Make America Healthy Again.

Guided by the best-available science, the Trump Administration will use
gold-standard research to analyze the health and safety impacts of paper
straws. Instead of being driven by ideology, the Trump Administration
will be driven to prioritize the health and well-being of the American
people. To that end, regulatory agencies will work to ensure that the
American people are protected from the harmful effects of paper straws.

### <span id="_Toc193986908">Clear Communications</span>

Under the Biden Administration, government agencies from NASA to the
U.S. Forest Service promoted messaging disparaging plastic straws and
promoting paper straws. These messaging campaigns wasted taxpayer
dollars and needlessly divided Americans by disparaging reasonable
preferences for plastic straws.

  
The below examples are characteristic of the anti-plastic messaging that
infected government communications:

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/04/Picture1.jpg?w=1024"
decoding="async" loading="lazy"
sizes="auto, (max-width: 1428px) 100vw, 1428px"
srcset="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/04/Picture1.jpg 1428w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/04/Picture1.jpg?resize=300,251 300w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/04/Picture1.jpg?resize=768,643 768w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/04/Picture1.jpg?resize=1024,857 1024w"
width="1428" height="1195" />
</figure>

Under the Trump Administration, these messaging campaigns are over. All
federal agencies should conduct a full audit of public-facing
communications, including physical and digital media, and remove any
that disparage plastic straws or promote paper straws.

### <span id="_Toc193986909">Efficient Procurement</span>

The federal government is the largest purchaser on earth. The Biden
Administration weaponized the federal government’s market power to
promote harmful products like paper straws. The Biden Administration
used a government-wide approach and involved the GSA, the EPA, the USDA,
the OMB, and a whole host of other government entities to ensure that
tax dollars were being used to promote paper straws.

Paper straws are more expensive than plastic straws. Despite this fact,
the Biden Administration decided to waste taxpayer dollars to promote
its ideology.

In contrast to the Biden Administration’s willfully blind commitment to
paper straws, the Trump Administration is zealously protecting taxpayers
from waste, fraud, and abuse in government spending. Instead of
purchasing and promoting products due to ideological reasons, the Trump
Administration will purchase and promote products based on quality and
price. Government agencies should always be focused on getting the best
deal for the American people and stewarding taxpayer dollars wisely.

## <span id="_Toc193986910">Government-Wide Implementation</span>

The Trump Administration is taking action to restore common sense and
safeguard the health of American citizens. The Trump Administration is
reforming government contracting across all government agencies to
ensure that no federal agencies are wasting taxpayer dollars by
acquiring paper straws. The below list details what actions government
agencies have taken or can take to implement President Trump’s executive
order.

**The Department of Justice**

Under the Biden Administration, the DOJ enacted a Climate Adaptation
Plan that mandated that the agency eliminate single-use products. The
Trump Administration is returning the DOJ to its mission of enforcing
the law, including laws regarding equal protection for Americans with
disabilities.

The DOJ should vigorously defend the rights of individuals with
disabilities in places of public accommodation. It will ensure that
“establishments serving food or drink” provide every citizen with an
equal opportunity to utilize a plastic straw. The DOJ should explore all
avenues, including lawsuits against business establishments, to ensure
full access and inclusion for all citizens seeking to properly consume
beverages. It should also explore all necessary and proper legal avenues
for addressing state and municipal laws that work against the goals of
the Americans with Disabilities Act.

### <span id="_Toc193986911">The Department of Health and Human Services</span>

The Biden Administration used HHS to attack plastic and promote so-call
“sustainable” plastic-free products like paper straws. While on the
clock, government employees at the FDA attended an event at the agency’s
headquarters where they signed pledges to reduce their consumption of
plastic and use alternative products like paper straws (“Mobilizing
Federal Action,” 2024).

The Trump Administration is rolling back this waste of taxpayer dollars.
HHS is already working to implement President Trump’s executive order,
and it already removed paper straws from its cafeteria. HHS can and
should continue to take broader action to end paper straws.

The FDA has a mandate to regulate food contact substances, and it should
protect the American people from unsafe paper straws.

The FDA is empowered to issue regulations “with respect to any
particular use of a food additive” and “the conditions under which such
additive may be safely used.” 21 USC § 348(d). Food contact substances
can be regulated like food additives. 21 USC § 348(a)(3). The FDA should
conduct an investigation to determine the health risks of paper straws
being used as food contact substances.

The FDA can deem a food contact substance “adulterated” if it “contains
any poisonous or deleterious substance which may render it injurious to
health.” 21 USC § 342(a). Given the evidence that paper straws with PFAS
chemicals could render beverages injurious to Americans’ health, the FDA
should consider restricting their use.

PFASs are also found in food packaging like carry-out containers and
to-go boxes. Leading fast-food chains have publicly committed to
reducing PFAS in their packaging and phasing them out entirely. While
the FDA could consider future regulations targeting PFAS in food
packaging, paper straws are likely a more pressing concern. Unlike
disposable packaging, paper straws are uniquely designed to have the
consumer directly ingest PFAS during use. Additionally, unlike food
packaging, paper straws break down during use. As paper straws break
down, they release harmful PFAS chemicals directly into beverages. To
implement Executive Order 14208, the FDA should promptly consider the
health and safety risks posed by paper straws.

### <span id="_Toc193986912">U.S. Department of Agriculture</span>

Just four days before President Trump took office, the Biden
Administration’s USDA rolled out a Contracting Desk Book to penalize
government contractors using single-use plastics (“Contracting Desk
Book,” 2025). The Trump Administration is already working to undo the
paper straw mandate. The USDA confirmed that food vendors at its
headquarters did not use paper straws and that they are not planning on
procuring paper straws in the future. Additionally, it conducted a
review of its purchase cards and ensured that none of them have been
used to purchase paper straws. The USDA also reviewed its research
programs and ensured that there is no research being conducted to
promote paper straws or disparage plastic straws. The USDA is also
working to ensure that its field offices do not procure any paper
straws. Additionally, the USDA is ensuring that funds in grant
agreements will not be used to purchase paper straws. The Secretary’s
office is also ensuring that the USDA will not promote the development
or manufacturing of paper straws in the future.

Additionally, the USDA should reform its BioPreferred program. The Biden
Administration used the BioPreferred program to promote paper straws in
two ways. First, the BioPreferred program requires that any products
listed in its catalogue receive preferential treatment from federal
agencies during the procurement process. Second, the USDA promotes
products listed as part of the BioPreferred program and grants them the
“USDA Certified Biobased Product” label. The two-fold nature of the
BioPreferred program caused paper straws to be promoted in government
contracting and in the private market.

The Biden Administration used both aspects of the BioPreferred program
to promote paper straws. Both of these actions were erroneous, and the
USDA should reform the BioPreferred program to end the use of paper
straws.

The statute authorizing the BioPreferred program grants the Secretary of
Agriculture, after consulting with the Administrator of General Services
and the Secretary of Commerce, broad discretion in establishing
procurement guidelines to encourage the federal acquisition of biobased
products (7 USC § 8102(a)(3)(A)). The Secretary is empowered to
“designate those items…that…can be produced with biobased products” (7
USC § 8102(a)(3)(B)(i)). Since paper cannot produce a well-functioning
straw, all paper straws should be removed from the USDA guidelines, and
the USDA should ensure that any listed biobased straws have the strength
and durability of plastic straws.

Further, the Secretary is empowered to evaluate performance,
environmental, and public health impacts of a product when making
procurement guidelines (7 USC § 8102(a)(3)(B)(vii)). As demonstrated
above, paper straws offer inferior performance, create no environmental
benefit, and threaten public health. For all of these reasons, the
Secretary of Agriculture is empowered to remove paper straws from the
USDA’s BioPreferred program. To ensure that paper straws are not
substituted with equally ineffective substitutes, the USDA should ensure
that only products that meet durability and performance standards on par
with plastic straws receive any preferential treatment under the
BioPreferred guidelines.

The Secretary should go beyond merely ending preferences for paper
straws in federal procurement. The policy of Executive Order 14208 is to
end the use of paper straws nationwide. Therefore, the Secretary should
also remove paper straws from the USDA’s voluntary labeling program. The
goal of the USDA’s voluntary labeling program is to encourage private
parties to purchase certified products (7 USC § 8102(b)(2)(B)(i)).
Encouraging private parties to purchase paper straws directly conflicts
with the President’s agenda to end the use of paper straws.

The statute directs the Secretary to ensure that the standards for the
labeling program are consistent with the standards for the procurement
guidelines (7 USC § 8102(b)(2)(B)(iii)). Since the procurement
guidelines are authorized to account for performance, environmental, and
public health concerns about products, the USDA should also consider
these factors in the labeling program. As demonstrated above, paper
straws do not offer performance, significant environmental, or public
health benefits. To the contrary, they perform far worse than plastic
straws, they offer virtually no environmental benefit, and they pose
risks to public health. Since paper straws fail on all of these factors,
they should be ineligible for the USDA’s Certified Biobased Product
label.

The Secretary is authorized to carry out auditing and compliance
activities to ensure that the label is only used on products that meet
the stringent criteria for the label (7 USC § 8102(b)(3)). Therefore,
the Secretary should ensure that no paper straws receive the label in
the future and ensure that all paper straws that currently receive the
label have their right to use the label revoked.

### <span id="_Toc193986913">Environmental Protection Agency</span>

The Biden Administration ignored the EPA’s warnings on the risks of PFAS
chemicals in its drive to promote paper straws. It unnecessarily
endangered the federal government’s own workforce by directing federal
purchasing to prioritize paper straws through its EPA Ecolabels Program.
Indeed, it promoted paper straws as safe and effective to the public
through its EPA Ecolabels Program.

The Trump Administration’s EPA should not ignore known risks to human
health. It should not promote as safe what it knows to be dangerous.
Therefore, it should remove paper straws entirely from its Ecolabels
Program. Guided by the best available science, it should also identify
and address all further concerns with PFAS chemicals in paper straws and
mitigate unnecessary toxic exposure to humans.

### <span id="_Toc193986914">Department of the Interior</span>

Under the Biden Administration, DOI advocated for the total abolition of
straws altogether. Secretary Haaland issued Secretary’s Order No. 3407
to target all single-use plastic products, including containers, straws,
cups, bags, etc. The order directed the agency’s Chief Sustainability
Officer to develop policies for procurement anywhere in the agency,
including in concessionaires. The order further directed the agency to
phase out all single-use plastic products by 2032. DOI implemented a
“straws upon request” policy to reduce the number of straws used across
its facilities. Yosemite National Park eliminated all single-use
plastics, including plastic straws, in 2022. Presumably, the Biden
Administration pushed all other national parks to also work to reduce
single-use plastics and ban plastic straws.

Under President Trump, DOI is already working to undo the Biden
Administration’s harmful policies. The DOI ordered all bureaus and
offices to immediately cease all purchases of paper straws. The DOI is
also working on a Secretary’s Order to repeal and replace the Biden
Administration’s order targeting all single-use plastic products. This
new order will prohibit DOI from procuring any paper straws, and it will
allow DOI and its vendors to procure plastic straws.

The DOI should ensure that Americans aren’t burdened by the excesses of
an environmentally dubious agenda as it executes its sacred trust to
allow Americans to enjoy the awe and beauty of nature in America’s
majestic national parks.

### <span id="_Toc193986915">Department of Commerce</span>

The Biden Administration used the DOC and NOAA to promote paper straws
on a scientifically misguided basis. Its Green Grants were used to
remove single-use plastic straws.

The Trump Administration’s DOC should follow better evidence toward a
new policy. It is already implementing President Trump’s executive
order, and it has instructed all bureaus to prohibit the use of paper
straws in all new and existing contracts performed within federal
buildings. This policy reform includes the contract for the newly
reopened cafeteria in the Herbert C. Hoover Building. Further, the
Department instructed all offices and bureaus not to have any policies
against plastic straws.

The DOC should ensure that the Trump Administration is guided by the
best available science, and it should thoroughly examine the supply
chains and countries of origin for paper straws as part of this
Administration’s strategy to end their use in the United States.

### <span id="_Toc193986916">Department of Energy</span>

DOE is already working to implement President Trump’s executive order.
The DOE has ordered the elimination of all paper straw usage at its 30+
sites nationwide. The DOE has also reviewed all internal guidance
documents and confirmed there are no requirements directing the
procurement of paper straws specifically.

Because the Biden Administration used the DOE to advance its
anti-plastic policies, the Department should conduct a thorough review
of all of its policies to ensure that there are no remaining policies
favoring paper straws or disparaging the use of plastic straws.

### <span id="_Toc193986917">Federal Acquisition Regulatory Council</span>

The Federal Acquisition Regulatory Council assists in developing
procurement policy for the federal government. In coordination with the
Office of Federal Procurement Policy, the Council should amend the
Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) to ensure that no federal agency
procures paper straws.

The FAR should be updated to include a performance requirement that
beverage straws procured and used under federal contracts have the
strength and durability of plastic straws. Additionally, the FAR should
be updated to include a provision that requires all government
contractors to represent that they do not use paper straws or penalize
the use of plastic straws.

### <span id="_Toc193986918">General Services Administration</span>

The federal government is the largest buyer of goods and services in the
world, spending approximately $490 billion per year on federal
contracts. The GSA oversees many of these contracts and works to ensure
that federal policies are promoted in government contracts. The GSA
plays an important role in ensuring that the federal government does not
use its market power to purchase paper straws or support companies that
penalize the use of plastic straws.

The Biden Administration used the GSA to develop federal anti-plastic
policies. Under Joe Biden, the GSA finalized a rule that encourages
federal contractors to identify single-use plastic packaging (48 CFR
552.238-118). The GSA runs the Green Procurement Compilation website,
which facilitates anti-plastic procurement practices. Requests for bids
for food service contracts include language asking contractors to
explain their plan to “minimize plastic content.” A sample “instructions
to offerors” memo for food service providers includes anti-plastic straw
language.

Under President Trump’s leadership, the GSA has already started the
important work of implementing Executive Order 14208. Just days after
President Trump signed his executive order, the GSA issued a deviation
to the FAR prohibiting government agencies from wasting taxpayer dollars
on the procurement of paper straws.

The GSA should continue its work implementing President Trump’s
executive order and thoroughly review cafeteria and food services sample
contracts promoted by the Green Procurement Compilation and remove any
language encouraging contractors to use paper straws or avoid plastic
straws. Additionally, the GSA should thoroughly review all of the Biden
Administration’s anti-plastic regulations and ensure that none of the
provisions targeting plastic straws remain.

###  <span id="_Toc193986919">Office of Management and Budget</span>

OMB oversees federal agencies, and it should carry out an extensive
review of federal policies to ensure that no agency promotes paper
straws or disparages the use of plastic straws. To that end, OMB should
issue a controller alert informing agency Chief Financial Officers that
no federal funds can go towards the acquisition of paper straws. Issuing
a controller alert would allow Executive Order 14208 to take effect
rapidly and begin to shape federal policy before the FAR can be formally
updated.

Additionally, OMB should develop guidelines to ensure that no taxpayer
dollars are spent on any grant that is designed to promote paper straws,
disparage plastic straws, or otherwise undermine Executive Order 14208.
The policy of the United States is to end the use of paper straws, and
every tax dollar spent should be in full alignment with this policy.

### <span id="_Toc193986920">United States Agency for International Development</span>

Under the Biden Administration, the United States Agency for
International Development (USAID) wasted countless taxpayer dollars. One
particularly egregious example of government waste involved a grant
program where USAID paid an NGO to help promote grass straws and
eliminate plastic straws in Vietnam’s Phu Quoc’s hospitality sector. The
Biden Administration was so proud of this use of taxpayer dollars that
it highlighted this program in a White House report (“Mobilizing Federal
Action,” 2024).

President Trump ended this waste of taxpayer dollars when he ended the
rampant waste, fraud, and abuse at USAID.

# <span id="_Toc193986921">CONCLUSION: THE LAST STRAW</span>

Americans deserve better than paper straws. According to the full body
of scientific research, paper straws lack structural integrity, pose
safety risks to children and people with disabilities, contain chemicals
linked to serious health conditions, and cost more than plastic straws.
In exchange for suffering these substantial costs, limiting plastic
straws offers virtually no environmental benefits. The science is clear:
banning plastic straws imposes real costs on the American people in
exchange for no meaningful benefits.

Despite the scientific evidence and strong consumer preference for
plastic straws, the Biden Administration implemented a government-wide
campaign against plastic straws. The Trump Administration has undone
this weaponization of government and will use all available levers to
bring back common sense, end the use of paper straws, and restore
functional utensils for the American people.**  
**

# <span id="_Toc193986922">REFERENCES</span>

Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry. (2024, November 12).
*Fast facts: PFAS in*

*the U.S. population*. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
<https://www.atsdr.cdc.gov/pfas/data-research/facts-stats/index.html>.

Amazon. (n.d.). *Comfy Package \[Case of 6,000\] 7.75″ High Flexible
Plastic Straws, Disposable*

*Drinking Straws – Striped Assorted Colors*.
<https://www.amazon.com/Flexible-Disposable-Plastic-Drinking-Straws/dp/B0B7P3LNBH?th=1>.

Archie, A. & Smith, E. (2018, July 7). Seattle becomes the latest city
to ban plastic straws and

utensils. *CNN*.
<https://www.cnn.com/2018/07/02/us/seattle-bans-plastic-straws-and-utensils/index.html>.    

Beesoon, S., Genius, S. J., Benskin, J. P., & Martin, J. W. (2012).
Exceptionally high serum

concentrations of perfluorohexanesulfonate in a Canadian family are
linked to home carpet treatment applications. *Environmental Science &
Technology*, 46(23), 12960-12967.

Boisacq, P., De Keuster, M., Prinsen, E., Jeong, Y., Bervoets, L., Eens,
M., & Groffen, T.

(2023). Assessment of poly- and perfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS) in
commercially available drinking straws using targeted and suspect
screening approaches. *Food Additives & Contaminants: Part A, 40*(9),
1230–1241. <https://doi.org/10.1080/2019440049.2023.2240908>.

Britschgi, C. (2018, July 25). San Francisco bans straws, cocktail
swords. *Reason*.

<https://reason.com/2018/07/25/san-francisco-bans-straws-cocktail-sword/.>

Cather, A. (2025, February 12). Does Trump’s ban on paper straws impact
New York City’s ban

on plastic straws? *New York City Food Policy Center*.
[https://www.nycfoodpolicy.org/](/Users/WCKing/AppData/Local/Microsoft/Windows/INetCache/Content.Outlook/TS992PDE/does-trumps-%20ban-on-paper-straws-impact-new-york-citys-ban-on-plastic-straws/)

[does-trumps-
ban-on-paper-straws-impact-new-york-citys-ban-on-plastic-straws/](/Users/WCKing/AppData/Local/Microsoft/Windows/INetCache/Content.Outlook/TS992PDE/does-trumps-%20ban-on-paper-straws-impact-new-york-citys-ban-on-plastic-straws/).

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. (2020). *ToxGuide for
perfluoroalkyls*.

<https://www.atsdr.cdc.gov/toxguides/toxguide-200.pdf.>

Clean Water Action. (n.d.). *PFAS-containing firefighting foams*.
[https://cleanwater.org/pfas-](https://cleanwater.org/pfas-containing-firefighting-foams)

[containing-firefighting-foams](https://cleanwater.org/pfas-containing-firefighting-foams).

*Contracting desk book v.4.0*. (2025). U.S. Department of Agriculture.

<https://www.usda.gov/sites/default/files/documents/usda-contracting-deskbook.pdf.>

Danovich, T. & Godoy, M. (2018, July 11). Why people with disabilities
want bans on plastic

straws to be more flexible. *NPR*.
[https://www.npr.org/sections/thesalt/2018/07/11/
627773979/why-people-with-disabilities-want-bans-on-plastic-straws-to-be-more-flexible](https://www.npr.org/sections/thesalt/2018/07/11/627773979/why-people-with-disabilities-want-bans-on-plastic-straws-to-be-more-flexible).

Earth Negotiations Bulletin. (2019). *Summary report, 29 April—10 May
2019, 2019 meetings of*

*the conferences of the parties to the Basel, Rotterdam and Stockholm
Conventions*. International Institute for Sustainable Development.
<https://enb.iisd.org/events/2019-meetings-conferences-parties-basel-rotterdam-and-stockholm-conventions/summary-report>.

Earth Negotiations Bulletin. (2022). *Daily report for 9 June 2022,
face-to-face meetings of the*

*conferences of the parties to the Basel, Rotterdam and Stockholm
Conventions (BRS COPs)*. International Institute for Sustainable
Development.
<https://enb.iisd.org/basel-rotterdam-stockholm-conventions-brs-cops-2022-daily-report-9jun2022>.

EcoCenter. (n.d.). *Toxic PFAS chemicals found in Wolverine Worldwide
shoes*.

<https://www.ecocenter.org/our-work/healthy-stuff-lab/reports/wolverine-worldwide-shoes-pfas-results/toxic-pfas-chemicals.>

Ell, K. (2018, July 9). Paper straws cost ‘maybe 10 times’ more than
plastic straws, says paper

straw distributor. *CNBC*.
<https://www.cnbc.com/2018/07/09/paper-straws-are-better-for-the-environment-but-they-will-cost-you.html>.

Ellis, R. & Moon, S. (2018, September 20). California bans plastic
straws in full-service

restaurants—unless customers request one. *CNN.*
<https://www.cnn.com/2018/09/20/us/plastic-straws-banned-in-california/index.html>.

Enkin, M. (2018, July 18). Disability rights groups voice issues with
Starbucks’ plastic straw ban

as company responds. *PBS*.
<https://www.pbs.org/newshour/health/disability-rights-groups-voice-issues-with-starbucks-plastic-straw-ban-as-company-responds>.

Environmental Protection Agency. (2019). *United States federal strategy
for addressing the*

*global issue of marine litter*.
[https://19january2021snapshot.epa.gov/sites/static/
files/2020-10/documents/marinelitter\_booklet\_10.16.20\_v10epa.pdf](https://19january2021snapshot.epa.gov/sites/static/files/2020-10/documents/marinelitter_booklet_10.16.20_v10epa.pdf).

Environmental Protection Agency. (2021). *Our current understanding of
the human health*

*and environmental risks of PFAS*.
<https://www.epa.gov/pfas/our-current-understanding-human-health-and-environmental-risks-pfas>.

Executive Order No. 14057, 86 Fed. Reg. 70935 (2021, December 8).

Finnish Food Authority. (2022, August 16). *Supervise the use of a paper
straw when feeding*

*small children*.
<https://www.ruokavirasto.fi/en/foodstuffs/instructions-for-consumers/news/elintarviketiedotteet/supervise-the-use-of-a-paper-straw-when-feeding-small-children/>.

Food and Drug Administration. (2020, July 31). *FDA announces the
voluntary phase-out by*

*industry of certain PFAS used in food packaging*.
<https://www.fda.gov/food/hfp-constituent-updates/fda-announces-voluntary-phase-out-industry-certain-pfas-used-food-packaging>.

Food and Drug Administration. (2024). *Per- and polyfluoroalkyl
substances (PFAS) in*

*cosmetics*.
<https://www.fda.gov/cosmetics/cosmetic-ingredients/and-polyfluoroalkyl-substances-pfas-cosmetics>.

Food and Drug Administration. (2024). *FDA announces PFAS used in
grease-proofing agents*

*for food packaging no longer being sold in U.S.*
<https://www.fda.gov/food/hfp-constituent-updates/fda-announces-pfas-used-grease-proofing-agents-food-packaging-no-longer-being-sold-us>.

Food and Drug Administration. (2025, January 3). *Authorized uses of
PFAS in food contact*

*applications*.
<https://www.fda.gov/food/process-contaminants-food/authorized-uses-pfas-food-contact-applications>.

Fry, H & Reyes, E. A. (2019, April 22). You can only get a straw at many
L.A. restaurants by

requesting one, starting now. *Los Angeles Times*.
[https://www.latimes.com/local/lanow/
la-me-ln-plastic-straws-earth-day-20190422-story.html](https://www.latimes.com/local/lanow/%20la-me-ln-plastic-straws-earth-day-20190422-story.html).

Gao, A. L., & Wan, Y. (2022). Life cycle assessment of environmental
impact of disposable

drinking straws: A trade-off analysis with marine litter in the United
States*. Science of the Total Environment, 817*, 153016.
<https://doi.org/10.1016/j.scitotenv.2022.153016>.

Garcia, C., & Sutton, S. (2025, February 12). Stuart commissioners lift
plastic straw ban passed

in 2019. *WPTV.*
<https://www.wptv.com/news/protecting-paradise/stuart-commissioners-lift-plastic-straw-ban-passed-in-2019>.

Geller, S. (2023, October 27). ‘Forever chemicals’—the part of cleaning
you don’t want to last.

*Environmental Working Group*.
[https://www.ewg.org/news-insights/news/2023/10/
forever-chemicals-part-cleaning-you-dont-want-last](https://www.ewg.org/news-insights/news/2023/10/forever-chemicals-part-cleaning-you-dont-want-last).

Gibbens, S. (2019). A brief history of how plastic straws took over the
world. *National*

*Geographic*.
<https://www.nationalgeographic.com/environment/article/news-plastic-drinking-straw-history-ban>.

Ginty, M., & Lindwall, C. (2024, April 10) “Forever chemicals” called
PFAS show up in your

food, clothes, and home. *National Resources Defense Council*.
[https://www.nrdc.org/
stories/forever-chemicals-called-pfas-show-your-food-clothes-and-home](https://www.nrdc.org/stories/forever-chemicals-called-pfas-show-your-food-clothes-and-home).

Gross, S. J. (2019, May 10). Plastic straws are out: Ron DeSantis vetoes
prohibition of local

straw bans. *Tampa Bay Times*.
[https://www.tampabay.com/florida-politics/
buzz/2019/05/10/plastic-straw-are-out-ron-desantis-vetoes-prohibition-of-local-bans/](https://www.tampabay.com/florida-politics/%20buzz/2019/05/10/plastic-straw-are-out-ron-desantis-vetoes-prohibition-of-local-bans/).

Gutierrez, J. N., Royals, A. W., Jameel, H., Venditte, R. A., Pal, L.
(2019). Evaluation of paper

straws versus plastic straws: development of a methodology for testing
and understanding challenges for paper straws. *BioResources*, 14(4),
8345-8363.

Hellmann, M. (2018, July 11). Straw ban leaves disabled community
feeling high and dry.

*Seattle Weekly*.
<https://www.seattleweekly.com/news/straw-ban-leaves-disabled-community-feeling-high-and-dry/>.

Hilpert, Y. (2020, July 15). I hate paper straws and here is why.
LinkedIn.

<https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/i-hate-paper-straws-here-why-yasmin-hilpert>

Ip, G. (2024, April 25). America’s economy is No. 1. That means trouble.

*The Wall Street Journal*.
<https://www.wsj.com/economy/global/us-economy-strongest-world-imf-projections-8e707514>.

IPSOS. (2018). *Attitudes toward plastic straws.*
[https://www.ipsos.com/en-us/news-](https://www.ipsos.com/en-us/news-polls/Attitudes-Toward-Plastic-Straws)

[polls/Attitudes-Toward-Plastic-Straws](https://www.ipsos.com/en-us/news-polls/Attitudes-Toward-Plastic-Straws).

Kelly, J. (2018, November 3). Good to the last drop: the drinking straw
was invented in

Washington. *The Washington Post*.
<https://www.washingtonpost.com/local/suck-on-this-the-drinking-straw-was-invented-in-washington/2018/11/03/f6050bae-deb8-11e8-b3f0-62607289efee_story.html>.

Kesbeh, D. (2018, April 20). Malibu moves to ban single-use plastic.
*NPR*.

<https://www.npr.org/2018/04/20/602170604/malibu-moves-to-ban-single-use-plastic.>

Kessler, D. (2019). Plastic straw bans can run afoul of the Americans
with Disabilities Act. 69

American University Law Review 1.
<https://aulawreview.org/blog/plastic-straw-bans-can-run-afoul-of-the-americans-with-disabilities-act/>.

Kluger, J. (2023, May 19). All the stuff in your home that might contain
PFAS ‘forever

chemicals.’
<https://time.com/6281242/pfas-forever-chemicals-home-beauty-body-products/>.

Lei, C. & Coleman, K. (2018, July 22). One child’s outsized influence on
the debate over plastic

straws. *NPR*.
<https://www.npr.org/2018/07/22/631254978/one-childs-outsized-influence-on-the-debate-over-plastic-waste>.

Li, S., Goodrich, J. A., Chen, J. C., Costello, E., Beglarian, E., Liao,
J., Alderete, T. L., Valvi,

D., Baumert, B. O., Rock, S., Eckel, S. P., McConnell, R., Gilliland, F.
D., Chen, Z., Conti, D. V., Chatzi, L., & Aung, M. (2024). Per-and
polyfluoroalkyl substances and disrupted sleep: mediating roles of
proteins. *Environmental Advances*, 17, 100585.

Martinez, G. (2018, July 12). ‘Disabled people are not part of the
conversation.’ Advocates

speak out against plastic straw bans. *Time*.
<https://time.com/5335955/plastic-straws-disabled/>.

McGrath, M. (2022, August 2). Pollution: ‘Forever chemicals’ in
rainwater exceed safe levels.

*BBC News*. <https://www.bbc.com/news/science-environment-62391069>.

McLaren-Kennedy, P. (2022, April 22). Authority warns paper straws are a
potential choking

hazard? *EuroWeekly*.
<https://euroweeklynews.com/2022/04/22/authority-warns-paper-straws-are-a-potential-choking-hazard/>.

Meijer, L. J. J., van Emmerik, T., van der Ent, R., Schmidt, C., &
Lebreton, L. (2021). More than

1000 rivers account for 80% of global riverine plastic emissions into
the ocean. *Science Advances, 7*(18), eaaz5803.
<https://doi.org/10.1126/sciadv.aaz5803>.

*Mobilizing federal action on plastic pollution: progress, principles,
and priorities*. (2024). The

White House.
[https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/07/
Mobilizing-Federal-Action-on-Plastic-Pollution-Progress-Principles-and-Priorities-July-2024.pdf.](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/07/%20Mobilizing-Federal-Action-on-Plastic-Pollution-Progress-Principles-and-Priorities-July-2024.pdf.%0d)

Nirappil, F. (2019, January 28). On patrol with the enforcers of D.C.’s
plastic-straw ban. *The*

*Washington Post.*
[https://www.washingtonpost.com/local/dc-politics/on-patrol-with-an-enforcer-of-dcs-plastic-straw-ban/2019/01/28/511e7bcc-1511-11e9-90a8-136fa44b80ba
\_story.html](https://www.washingtonpost.com/local/dc-politics/on-patrol-with-an-enforcer-of-dcs-plastic-straw-ban/2019/01/28/511e7bcc-1511-11e9-90a8-136fa44b80ba_story.html)*.*

Nirappel, F. & Hernandez, A. (2018, Dec. 31.) A plastic straw ban and a
confederate name

change: New Laws in the D.C. Region in 2019. *The Washington Post.*
<https://www.washingtonpost.com/local/dc-politics/a-plastic-straw-ban-and-a-confederate-name-change-new-laws-in-the-dc-region-in-2019/2018/12/31/60e4d954-0d1c-11e9-831f-3aa2c2be4cbd>.

Plastic pollution an increasing problem. (2018, September). *Beverage
Industry*.

<https://www.bevindustry.com/articles/91443-plastic-pollution-an-increasing-problem.>

Prince George’s County (n.d.). *Plastic straw ban.*
<https://www.princegeorgescountymd.gov/>

[departments-offices/environment/laws-regulations/legislative-updates/plastic-straw-ban](https://www.princegeorgescountymd.gov/departments-offices/environment/laws-regulations/legislative-updates/plastic-straw-ban).

*Raising awareness of tourism debris in Quintana Roo, Mexico*. (n.d.)
National Oceanic and

Atmospheric Administration.
<https://marinedebris.noaa.gov/prevention/raising-awareness-tourism-debris-quintana-roo-mexico-0>.

Rosenbaum, S. (2018, July 17). How heartbreaking turtle video sparked
plastic straw bans. *Time*

*Magazine*. <https://time.com/5339037/turtle-video-plastic-straw-ban/>.

Rovell, D. (2018, November 17). Paper Straw, 2018-2018. Rest in Pieces.
X.

<https://twitter.com/darrenrovell/status/1063476078755409920.>

Schmidt, K. (2019, July 2). Plastic Straws Are Officially Banned in DC.
So Where Can You Buy

a Reusable One? *Washingtonian*.
<https://www.washingtonian.com/2019/07/02/plastic-straws-are-officially-banned-in-dc-so-where-can-you-buy-a-reusable-one/>. 

Schreder, E., Goldberg, M. (2022). *Toxic convenience: The hidden costs
of forever chemicals in*

*stain- and water-resistant products.* Toxic-Free Future.
<https://toxicfreefuture.org/wp-content/uploads/2022/08/toxic-convenience.pdf>.

Secretariate of the Stockholm Convention. (2009, May 8). *Governments
unite to step-up*

*reduction on global DDT reliance and add nine new chemicals under
international treaty.*
[https://www.pops.int/Convention/Pressrelease/COP4Geneva8May2009/tabid/
542/language/en-US/Default.aspx](https://www.pops.int/Convention/Pressrelease/COP4Geneva8May2009/tabid/%20542/language/en-US/Default.aspx).

The Freedonia Group. (2023). *US disposable straws.*
[https://www.freedoniagroup.com/industry-](https://www.freedoniagroup.com/industry-%0dstudy/us-disposable-straws.%0d)

[study/us-disposable-straws.](https://www.freedoniagroup.com/industry-%0dstudy/us-disposable-straws.%0d)

*The NOAA marine debris program awards funding to 8 new projects to
prevent marine*

*debris.* (n.d.). National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.
<https://marinedebris.noaa.gov/funding-opportunities/noaa-marine-debris-program-awards-funding-8-new-projects-prevent-marine-debris>.

Timshina, A., Aristizabal-Henao, J. J., Da Silva, B. F., & Bowden, J. A.
(2021). The last straw:

Characterization of per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances in
commercially-available plant-based drinking straws. *Chemosphere*, 277,
130238. [https://doi.org/10.1016/
j.chemosphere.2021.130238](https://doi.org/10.1016/%20j.chemosphere.2021.130238).

Toxic Use Reduction Institute. (2020). *Per- and poly-fluoroalkyl
substances (PFAS) in artificial*

*turf carpet*. University of Massachusetts Lowell.
<https://www.turi.org/publications/per-and-poly-fluoroalkyl-substances-pfas-in-artificial-turf-carpet/>.

Toxic-Free Future. (2022). *Toxic convenience: PFAS chemicals in food
packaging*.

<https://toxicfreefuture.org/wp-content/uploads/2022/08/toxic-convenience.pdf.>

U.S. Department of Agriculture. (n.d.). *BioPreferred Catalog*.

<https://www.biopreferred.gov/BioPreferred/faces/catalog/Catalog.xhtml#.>

Williams, D. C. (2025, February 11). Trump wants plastic straws back;
what does it mean for NJ,

other states with bans? *Northjersey.com*.
[https://www.northjersey.com/story/news/
2025/02/11/donald-trump-wants-plastic-straws-back-new-jersey-among-states-that-banned-them/78412433007/](https://www.northjersey.com/story/news/2025/02/11/donald-trump-wants-plastic-straws-back-new-jersey-among-states-that-banned-them/78412433007/).

World Resources Institute. (2018). *Banning straws and bags won’t solve
our plastic problem*.

<https://www.wri.org/insights/banning-straws-and-bags-wont-solve-our-plastic-problem.>

YouGov. (2023, August 9). *How do you feel about paper straws?*

<https://today.yougov.com/topics/society/survey-results/daily/2023/08/09/1cfc0/1.>

YouGov. (2023, August 9). *Do you think plastic straws should be
banned?*

<https://today.yougov.com/topics/society/survey-results/daily/2023/08/09/1cfc0/3.>
