---
date: '2024-08-01'
published_time: 2024-08-01 16:42:11-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/08/01/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-the-homegoing-service-for-the-late-congresswoman-sheila-jackson-lee/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at the Homegoing Service for the Late Congresswoman\
  \ Sheila Jackson\_Lee"
---
 
Fallbrook Church

Houston, Texas

2:02 P.M. CDT

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.  (Applause.)  Good afternoon.  Good
afternoon.  Good afternoon, church.  (Applause.)

Please have a seat.  Good afternoon.  (Applause.)  
  
Thank you, thank you, thank you.  Thank you, thank you.  
  
And let me thank Chaplain Black for your words and the time that we have
prayed together when I was in the United States Senate.  I thank you,
Chaplain. 

And Pastor Michael A. Pender Sr., thank you for the warm welcome this
afternoon.  (Applause.)

And to the Members of the Lee family, President Bill Clinton, Secretary
Hillary Clinton, the members of Congress, and the elected officials, and
all our distinguished guests, it is an honor — a true honor — true honor
— to be with you this afternoon to remember and to celebrate the
extraordinary life of Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee.  (Applause.)

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  (Inaudible.)  (Laughter.)  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So, Sheila Jackson Lee would want that we are
focused on her right now.  (Laughter and applause.)  But I thank you.  
  
Sheila Jackson Lee — to know her was to know a true champion — a fierce
champion for justice.  Sheila Jackson Lee was a woman of deep faith and
deep compassion.  She was a proud member of our beloved Alpha Kappa
Alpha Sorority, Incorporated.  (Applause.)  And she was a dear, dear
friend to my husband Doug and me.

Over her career, as we all know, Sheila had many titles — judge,
councilmember, congresswoman.  And yet, perhaps the titles she cherished
the most were wife to Elwyn, mother to Jason and Erica, and “BeBe” to
Ellison and Roy.

And so, to the entire Lee family, Doug and my prayers are with you. 

It is not easy to lose a member of one’s family who holds such an
extraordinary place.  Sheila was just a presence.  She was a presence. 

And it is not easy — and I say to the family — when a loved one lives a
life of public service, and so especially someone like Sheila Jackson
Lee.  And I want to thank the family on behalf of the people of our
nation for your sacrifices and the work that you did to support her over
these many, many years that allowed her to give so much to our country. 
(Applause.)

So, the Bible teaches us, “Whatever you do, work at it with all your
heart, as if you were working for the Lord.”  (Applause.)

In everything she did, Sheila Jackson Lee worked with all her heart. 

As a member of the United States Senate and the Congressional Black
Caucus, I had the honor to work directly with Sheila on many issues over
the years and to observe firsthand her leadership.  And she truly was a
force of nature.   
  
When it came to her constituents, there was no task too big or too small
for the congresswoman.  If it needed to be done, she made sure it was
done and done right. 

When it came to crafting policy, there was no detail too minor or point
of order too obscure.  If it needed to be understood, the congresswoman
make sure — would make sure everyone understood it and understood it
well and used it to the benefit of the people she served. 

To know her was to marvel at her mastery of the legislative process.  We
were talking about it backstage — Sheila Jackson Lee was one of the
smartest and most strategic legislators in Washington, D.C. 
(Applause.)  And, I will say — and we all who have worked with her and
had the blessing of work with her know — she was also one of the most
unrelenting.  (Laughter.)  
  
As those of us who were her colleagues can attest, there was never a
trite or trivial conversation with Sheila Jackson Lee.  (Laughter.) 

Now, there were times, I will admit, if I saw her walking down the hall
— (laughter) — I would almost want to hide.  (Laughs.)  Because I knew
whatever else may be on my mind, Sheila Jackson Lee would require a very
serious and specific conversation with you about what she had on her
mind.  (Laughter.)  And then, she would tell you exactly what she needed
you to do to help her get it done.  (Laughter.) 

And Sheila Jackson Lee — (applause) — that was her character — she never
lost an opportunity to fight for the people she served.  And her fight —
her fight was borne out of love.  She had a big, big heart. 

Very few people have loved the people of Houston more than Sheila
Jackson Lee.  (Applause.)  In the community, she was ubiquitous and
omnipresent.  Whether it was the funerals and memorial services or the
birthday parties or block parties, she celebrated with the people, she
mourned with the people, she stood with the people always. 

And you may not know, but Sheila and Doug, my husband, struck up a fast
friendship in recent years.  And they did a number of events together,
including with the Jewish community here in Houston, because Sheila, of
course, was also a coalition builder.  And she fought for everybody,
knowing that the vast majority of us have so much more in common than
what separates us.  (Applause.)  Yes, she did. 

And as folks in this city can attest, if you were having trouble getting
your VA benefits or your Social Security, or if a family member had an
issue with their visa, you called the congresswoman, even if you did not
live in her district. (Laughter and applause.)

In fact, I suspect she gave nearly every person here her cell phone
number at one time or another.  (Laughter.)  And when you called, Sheila
Jackson Lee would always find a way to help, even if she needed to get a
little creative.

As some of you may remember, a number of years ago, the city of Houston
faced a budget shortfall and, to save money, decided to close a number
of public pools in the middle of an historic heat wave. 

Well, Sheila Jackson Lee wasn’t having that.  And so, she called around,
as the story goes, to business leaders across Houston and convinced them
to donate more than $350,000, and those pools then stayed open all
summer long.  (Applause.)

The congresswoman was a leader for Houston, and she was a national
leader.  She was a national leader.  She touched the lives of people all
over our country.

As a champion for women’s rights, she helped reauthorize the Violence
Against Women Act.

As a fighter for LGBTQ rights, her support helped repeal “Don’t Ask,
Don’t Tell.”

As a lifelong advocate for our nation’s children, she founded the
Congressional Children’s Caucus. 

And as a leader who believed deeply that America’s true and full history
must be acknowledged and honored, it was Sheila Jackson Lee whose bill
made Juneteenth a federal holiday — (applause) — which, as a United
States senator, I was proud to cosponsor. 

And then, as pres- — as vice president, it was my honor — with the
president — (applause) — with the president, it was my honor — it was my
honor with the — with our president, Joe Biden, to stand beside
Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee as our president signed her bill into
law. 

So, I’ll say this.  The late, great Barbara Jordan, a mentor of
Sheila’s, who also, of course, represented the 18th District —
(applause) — once said, and I’ll quote, “It is a privilege to serve the
people, a privilege that must be earned.  And once earned, there is an
obligation to do something good with it.”

Sheila Jackson Lee understood the privilege and obligation and nobility
of public service.  And through her service, she did untold good.   

You know, a few days before she passed, I called her.  And I expressed
my sincere and deep gratitude for all she had done.  And I told her she
had such an impact on me and my life. 

You know, to know Sheila is to know how she could be tough, but, o h, my
goodness, she was so loving and so encouraging.  And she always
encouraged me.  And so, I called to thank her for that.  I called to
thank her for the impact she has had on so many people.

I know all of us, and in particular all of us who have worked with her
in Washington, have stories to tell.  She was a force, but she never
allowed anything to be mediocre.  She always expected in all of us that
we would rise to a point of excellence, knowing life was too short and
there is too much to be done.  (Applause.)

And so, I expressed to her my personal gratitude for her long-standing
friendship and inspiration.  And I thanked her for her courage and her
conviction and her relentless focus on those who are too often left out
and left behind and her unwavering belief in the power that we each have
to change our country for the better. 

So, I will end with this.  Sheila Jackson Lee was the first elected —
first elected to the United States Congress 30 years ago this year.  She
was first elected 30 years ago this year. 

Hours after her swearing in, she stepped onto the House floor and she
addressed the American people.  So, new members of Congress have that
moment where after they are elected, they will speak in the chamber to
give a statement about what they intend to do with their time in
Congress.

And Sheila’s words were simple but very concise.  She said, “As members
of Congress, we are here to make change.”

Sheila Jackson Lee was a changemaker.  She worked with all her heart to
lift up the people of her city, of her state, and of our nation. 

And to honor her memory, let us continue to fight to realize the promise
of America — a promise of freedom, opportunity, and justice, not just
for some but for all.  (Applause.)  

And, Sheila, we are going to miss you dearly.  We will carry your spirit
with us every day in all the work that we have ahead. 

God bless the dear congresswoman, Sheila Jackson Lee.  And God bless the
United States of America. 

Thank you all.  Thank you.  (Applause.)  

END                 2:17 P.M. CDT
