---
date: '2024-08-16'
published_time: 2024-08-16 16:45:33-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/08/16/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-a-campaign-event-in-raleigh-nc/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at a Campaign Event in Raleigh,\_NC"
---
 
*Wake Tech Community College  
Raleigh, North Carolina*

2:26 P.M. EDT  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Can we hear it for Mike D?  (Applause.)

     Hello, family and friends.  (Laughs.)  (Applause.)  Oh, it’s good
to be back in North Carolina.   Oh, it’s good to see everyone. 
(Applause.)  Thank you.

     Oh, it’s good to see everyone.  Good afternoon.  Everyone, please
have a seat, if you have a seat.  (Laughter.)  Please have a seat.

     Mike D, I have to — so, Mike D’s Barbecue — let me tell you one of
the biggest fans of Mike D’s barbecue: my husband, Doug Emhoff. 
(Laughs.)  (Applause.) 

     And — and thank you, Mike, for sharing your story.  And — and I’m
just so sorry for what your family has been through, but you have, out
of an incredible tragedy, done so much for the community, and you are
such a role model.  So, thank you, Mike, for everything you do. 
(Applause.)  Thank you.  Thank you.

     And good afternoon to everyone here.  Thank you to all of the
incredible leaders with us today, including my friend, the governor, Roy
Cooper.  Where is he?  (Applause.)  Here with his daughter.

     Every time I land in North Carolina, I — just literally coming down
the stairs of Air Force Two, I will shout to Roy Cooper, “What number is
it, Roy?”  (Laughter.)  And today, he shouted, “16,” which is the number
of times I’ve been in this beautiful state since I’ve been vice
president.  (Applause.)  Every time.

     I want to thank your next governor, Attorney General Josh Stein. 
(Applause.)  He’s doing incredible work.  He’s going to be an
extraordinary governor.  
  
Representatives Adam\[s\], Manning, Foushee, and Nickel, thank you all
for your support, for your friendship, for your leadership. 
(Applause.)  
  
Chair Thomas of the Wake County Board of Commissioners, thank you for
all that you do.  (Applause.)  
  
And to all the leaders that are here today, including the students and
instructors here at Wake Tech North, thank you.  Thank you. 
(Applause.)  
  
So, thank you all.  
  
So, listen, this election, I do strongly believe, is about two very
different visions for our nation: one, ours, focused on the future; and
the other, focused on the past.  
  
We see that contrast clearly in many ways, including when it comes to
how we think about the economy.  
  
So, our country has come a long way since President Biden and I took
office.  At that time, we sadly remember the millions of Americans that
were out of work.  We were facing one of the worst economic crises in
modern history.  
  
And, today, by virtually every measure, our economy is the strongest in
the world.  (Applause.)  
  
We have created 16 million new jobs.  We have made historic investments
in infrastructure, in chips manufacturing, in clean energy.  And new
numbers this week alone show that inflation is down under 3 percent. 
(Applause.)  
  
And as president of the United States, it will be my intention to build
on the foundation of this progress.   
  
Still, we know that many Americans don’t yet feel that progress in their
daily lives.  Costs are still too high.  And on a deeper level, for too
many people, no matter how much they work, it feels so hard to just be
able to get ahead.  
  
As president, I will be laser-focused on creating opportunities for the
middle class that advance their economic security, stability, and
dignity. 

     Together, we will build what I call an “opportunity economy” —
(applause) — “an opportunity economy” — an economy where everyone can
compete and have a real chance to succeed; everyone, regardless of who
they are or where they start, has an opportunity to build wealth for
themselves and their children; and where we remove the barriers to
opportunity so anyone who wants to start a business or advance their
career can access the tools and the resources that are necessary to do
so.  (Applause.)  
  
     I will focus on cutting needless bureaucracy and unnecessary
regulatory red tape and encouraging — (applause) —  and encouraging
innovative technologies while protecting consumers and creating a stable
business environment with consistent and transparent rules of the
road.   
  
As president, I will bring together labor with small businesses and
major companies to invest in America, to create good jobs, achieve
broad-based growth, and ensure that America continues to define the
future and lead the world.  (Applause.)  
  
And key — key to creating this opportunity economy is building up our
middle class.  It is essential.  (Applause.)  
  
The middle class is one of America’s greatest strengths, and to protect
it, then, we must defend basic principles — such as, your salary should
be enough to provide you and your family with a good quality of life.
(Applause.)  
  
Such as, no child should have to grow up in poverty.  (Applause.)  
  
Such as, after years of hard work, you should be able to retire with
dignity.  (Applause.)  
  
And you should be able to join a union if you choose.  
  
Building up the middle class will be a defining goal of my presidency,
because I strongly believe when the middle class is strong, America is
strong.  (Applause.)  
  
So, in the weeks to come, I will address in greater detail my plans to
build an opportunity economy.  And, today, I will focus on one element
that’s on the minds of many Americans as they pay their bills at the
kitchen table or walk the aisles of a grocery store, and that is
lowering the cost of living.  (Applause.)  
  
So, every day across our nation, families talk about their plans for the
future; their ambitions; their aspirations for themselves, for their
children; and they talk about how they’re going to be able to actually
achieve them financially.  Because, look, the bills add up — food, rent,
gas, back-to-school clothes, prescription medication.  After all that,
for many families, there’s mo- — not much left at the end of the
month.  
  
I grew up in a middle-class household.  For most of my childhood, we
were renters.  My mother saved for well over a decade to buy a home.  I
was a teenager when that day finally came, and I can remember so well
how excited she was.  I kind of understood what it meant, but — we
called her “Mommy” — Mommy was so excited, it just made us excited that
she was so excited.  (Laughter.)  
  
Later in college, I worked at McDonald’s to earn spending money.  Well,
some of the people I worked with were raising families on that
paycheck.  They worked second or even third jobs to pay rent and buy
food.  That only gets harder when the cost of living goes up.   
  
     When I am elected president, I will make it a top priority to bring
down costs and increase economic security for all Americans.  As
president, I will take on the high costs that matter most to most
Americans, like the cost of food.   
  
     We all know that prices went up during the pandemic when the supply
chains shut down and failed, but our supply chains have now improved and
prices are still too high.   
  
     A lo- — a loaf of bread costs 50 percent more today than it did
before the pandemic.  Ground beef is up almost 50 percent.  Many of the
big food companies are seeing their highest profits in two decades.  And
while many grocery chains pass along these savings, others still
aren’t.   
  
     Look, I know most businesses are creating jobs, contributing to our
economy, and playing by the rules, but some are not, and that’s just not
right, and we need to take action when that is the case.  A- —
(applause) —  
  
     As attorney general in California, I went after companies that
illegally increased prices, including wholesalers that inflated the
price of prescription medication and companies that conspired with
competitors to keep prices of electronics high.  I won more than $1
billion for consumers.  (Applause.)   
  
     So, believe me, as president, I will go after the bad actors. 
(Applause.)  And I will work to pass the first-ever federal ban on prou-
— price <s>gauging</s> \[gouging\] on food.  (Applause.)  
  
     My plan will include new penalties for opportunistic companies that
exploit crises and break the rules, and we will support smaller food
businesses that are trying to play by the rules and get ahead. 
(Applause.)   
  
     We will help the food industry become more competitive, because I
believe competition is the lifeblood of our economy.  More competition
means lower prices for you and your families.  (Applause.)  
  
     Now compare what Donald Trump plans to do.  He wants to impose what
is, in effect, a national sales tax on everyday products and basic
necessities that we import from other countries.   
  
     That will devastate Americans.  It will mean higher prices on just
about every one of your daily needs: a Trump tax on gas, a Trump tax on
food, a Trump tax on clothing, a Trump tax on over-the-counter
medication.   
  
     And, you know, economists have done the math.  Donald Trump’s plan
would cost a typical family $3,900 a year.   
  
     AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  At this moment when everyday prices are too
high, he will make them even higher.   
  
     As president, I’ll attack and take on the issue of the cost of
health care.  As attorney general, I took on insurance companies and Big
Pharma and got them to lower their prices.  (Applause.)  
  
     And together with President Biden, we’ve gone even further.  We
capped the price of insulin at $35 a month and the total cost —
(applause) — and the total cost of prescription drugs at $2,000 a year
for seniors.  
  
     We let Medicare negotiate lower drug prices for seniors.   
  
     And just yesterday — and just yesterday, we announced that we are
lowering the price by up to 80 percent for 10 more lifesaving drugs. 
(Applause.)  
  
     AUDIENCE:  We’re not going back!  We’re not going back!  We’re not
going back!  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And I pledge to continue this progress.  I’ll
lower the cost of insulin and prescription drugs for everyone with your
support, not only our seniors — (applause) — and demand transparency
from the middlemen who operate between Big Pharma and the insurance
companies, who use opaque practices to raise your drug prices and profit
off your need for medicine.   
  
     Two months ago, I announced that medical debt will no longer be
used against your credit score.  (Applause.)  And I will work, as
president, with states like here in North Carolina — Roy Cooper, thank
you again — to cancel medical debt for more and more — millions more
Americans.  (Applause.)  
     As for Donald Trump, well, he wants to repeal the Affordable Care
Act —  
  
     AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — which 45 million Americans rely on. 
Forty-five million Americans rely on it for health care.   
  
     That would take us back to a time when insurance companies could
deny people with preexisting conditions.  We all remember what that was
—  
  
     AUDIENCE MEMBER:  We’re not going back!   
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — and we’re not going back.  
  
     AUDIENCE:  We’re not going back!  We’re not going back!  We’re not
going back!  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  We’re not going back.  We’re not going back.  
  
     AUDIENCE:  We’re not going back!  We’re not going back!  We’re not
going back!  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And — and remember — and this is why we’re not
going back, because we do remember — (laughter) — he tried to cut
Medicare every year he was president, threatening a program that tens of
millions of seniors count on.  
  
     And according to his Project 2025 agenda, he intends to undo our
work to bring down prescription drugs — the cost of prescription drugs
and insulin costs.   
  
     Well, we’ve come too far to let that happen.  (Applause.)  
  
     So, we’re not going back on that, and let’s talk about the cost of
housing.  (Applause.)  
  
     So, now, the housing market can be complicated, but, look, I’m not
new to this issue.  As state attorney general, I drafted and helped pass
a homeowner bill of rights, one of the first in America.   
  
     And during the foreclosure crisis, I took on the big banks for
predatory lending with many of my colleagues, including Roy Cooper, and
won $20 billion for California families when I was attorney general. 
(Applause.)  
  
     So, I know how to fight for people who are being exploited in the
housing market, and I know what homeownership means.  It’s more than a
financial transaction.  It’s so much more than that.  It’s more than a
house.  
  
     Homeownership and what that means — it’s a symbol of the pride that
comes with hard work.  It’s financial security.  It represents what you
will be able to do for your children.  (Applause.)  
  
And sadly, right now, it is out of reach for far too many American
families.  There’s a serious housing shortage in many places.  It’s too
difficult to build, and it’s driving prices up.  
  
As president, I will work in partnership with industry to build the
housing we need, both to rent and to buy.  We will take down barriers
and cut red tape, including at the state and local levels. 
(Applause.)  
  
And by the end of my first term, we will end America’s housing shortage
by building 3 million new homes and rentals that are affordable for the
middle class, and we will do that together.  We will do that together. 
(Applause.)  
  
And — and we will make sure those homes actually go to working- and
middle-class Americans — (applause) — not just investors.  Because, you
know, some corporate landlords — some of them buy dozens, if not
hundreds, of houses and apartments.  Then they turn them around and rent
them out at extremely high prices, and it can make it impossible, then,
for regular people to be able to buy or even rent a home.   
  
Some corporate landlords collude with each other to set artificially
high rental prices, often using algorithms and price-fixing software to
do it.  It’s anticompetitive, and it drives up costs.  I will fight for
a law that cracks down on these practices.  (Applause.)  
  
We also know that as the price of housing has gone up, the size of down
payments have gone up as well.  Even if aspiring homeowners save for
years, it often still is not enough.   
  
So, in addition, while we work on the housing shortage, my
administration will provide first-time homebuyers with $25,000  
to help with the down payment on a new home.  (Applause.)  
  
We can do this.  We can do this, all to help more Americans experience
the pride of homeownership and the financial security that it represents
and brings.   
  
So, that’s my plan.  But here’s what Donald Trump would do.  
  
If his Project 2025 agenda is put into effect, it will add around $1,200
a year to the typical American mortgage.   
  
He’s got it backward.  We should be doing everything we can to make it
more affordable to buy a home, not less.  (Applause.)  
  
Finally, there’s one more way I will help families deal with rising
costs, and that’s by letting you keep more of your hard-earned money. 
(Applause.)  Under my plan, more than 100 million Americans will get a
tax cut, and we will do this by restoring two tax cuts designed to help
middle-class and working Americans: the Earned Income Tax Credit —
(applause) — and the Child Tax Credit — (applause) — through which
millions of Americans with children got to keep more of their
hard-earned income.  
  
We know this works and has a direct impact on so many issues, including
child poverty.  We know it works.  
  
So, as president, I’ll not only restore that tax cut but expand it.  We
will provide $6,000 in tax relief to families during the first year of a
child’s life.  
  
Now, think what that means.  (Applause.)  Think what that means.  That
is a vital — vital year of critical development of a child, and the
costs can really add up, especially for young parents who need to buy
diapers and clothes and a car seat and so much else.  And we will do
this while reducing the deficit.  
  
Compare my plan with what Donald Trump intends to do.  He plans to give
billionaires massive tax cuts year after year and he plans to cut
corporate taxes by over a trillion dollars, even as they pull in record
profits.  And that’s on top of the $2 trillion tax cut he already signed
into law when he was president, which, by the way, overwhelming- —
overwhelmingly went to the wealthiest Americans and corporations and
exploded the national deficit.  
  
You know, I think that if you want to know who someone cares about, look
who they fight for — look who they fight for.  (Applause.)  
  
Donald Trump fights for billionaires and large corporations.  We — I
will fight to give money back to working- and middle-class Americans. 
(Applause.)  
  
So, I’ll end with this.  Two days ago, Donald Trump was here in North
Carolina.   
  
AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  He said he was going to talk about the economy —
(laughter) — I think you all watched; you know what I’m about to say —
but he offered no serious plans to reduce costs for middle-class
families, no plan to expand access to housing or health care.  And that,
actually, I think, for most of us, was not surprising because we already
know his plans.  We know the Project 2025 agenda.   
  
So, there’s a choice in this election: Donald Trump’s plans to devastate
the middle class, punish working people, and make the cost of living go
up for millions of Americans; and, on the other hand, when I’m elected
president, what we’ll do — (applause) — what we will do to bring down
costs,  
increase the security and stability financially of your family, and
expand opportunity for working- and middle-class Americans. 
(Applause.)  
  
So, now — now — now is the time to chart a new way forward. 
(Applause.)  Now is the time to chart a new way forward, to build —  
  
AUDIENCE:  A new way forward!  A new way forward!  A new way forward!  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  A new way forward, yes.  A new way forward.  
  
AUDIENCE:  A new way forward!  A new way forward!  A new way forward!  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  To build — to build an America where everyone’s
work is rewarded and talents are valued, where we work with labor and
business to strengthen the American economy, and where everyone has the
opportunity not just to get by but to get ahead.  
  
So, I thank you, North Carolina.  We’re going to get this done —
(applause) — and with your help.  God bless you.  And God bless the
United States of America.  God bless you.  (Applause.)  
  
END                 2:54 P.M. EDT

\# \# \#
