---
date: '2024-08-23'
modified_time: 2024-08-23 12:27:48-04:00
published_time: 2024-08-23 15:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/08/23/what-they-are-saying-president-biden-designates-springfield-1908-race-riot-national-monument/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "WHAT THEY ARE SAYING: President\_Biden Designates Springfield 1908 Race Riot\
  \ National\_Monument"
---
 
Last week President
Biden [signed](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/08/16/fact-sheet-president-biden-designates-springfield-1908-race-riot-national-monument/) a proclamation establishing
the Springfield 1908 Race Riot National Monument in Springfield,
Illinois. The new national monument will tell the story of a horrific
attack by a white mob on a Black community, its significance within the
Civil Rights Movement, and the broader history of Black community
resilience in the face of violent oppression. At a time when some are
working to rewrite history and erase painful moments in our past,
President Biden and Vice President Harris are committed to protecting
places that help tell a more complete story of our nation’s history,
including by recognizing difficult moments that have been ignored or
obscured for far too long.

*Leaders from across the country praised the announcement. Here’s what
they’re saying:*

**<u>Elected Officials</u>**

**Senator Tammy Duckworth (Illinois):** “The 1908
Springfield Race Riot site is of extraordinary cultural and historical
importance to our state and to this country—a searing, horrific incident
that galvanized the creation of the NAACP. I’ve been working for years
to designate this site as a national monument to help ensure the painful
lessons learned here will not be lost for the generations of Americans
to come. I’m proud that President Biden is taking action to help ensure
this history is properly honored and making our national parks better
reflect our nation’s people and stories.”
\[[Statement](https://www.duckworth.senate.gov/news/press-releases/on-the-116th-anniversary-duckworth-durbin-budzinski-applaud-biden-harris-administration-on-establishing-the-1908-springfield-race-riot-national-monument),
8/14/24\]

**Senator Dick Durbin (Illinois):** “The 1908 Springfield Race Riot was
a violent and hateful tragedy, but it’s a part of Illinois’ and our
nation’s history that we cannot turn a blind eye to. The story, which
led to the creation of the NAACP, must be told. I have worked with
Senator Duckworth and Rep. Budzinski to push for this historical site to
be recognized as a national monument, and I’m grateful that President
Biden understands the gravity of designating this site in Springfield.
Together, we can honor the lives lost during the deadly riots and
reaffirm our commitment to fighting prejudice in Illinois and across the
country.”
\[[Statement](https://www.duckworth.senate.gov/news/press-releases/on-the-116th-anniversary-duckworth-durbin-budzinski-applaud-biden-harris-administration-on-establishing-the-1908-springfield-race-riot-national-monument),
8/14/24\]

**Rep. Nikki Budzinski (IL-13)**: “More than a century ago,
Springfield’s Black community was attacked in an act of hateful and
senseless violence. While the 1908 Springfield Race Riot demonstrates
our nation’s deep history of racial violence, it also sparked the
creation of the NAACP – reflecting the strength and resilience of Black
Americans in tireless fight for civil rights. Since coming to Congress
I’ve been pushing for the Race Riot site to be designated as a national
monument and I’m so excited to see it finally receive this long overdue
recognition. Today’s announcement is a critical step forward to honor
those who were killed in the 1908 attack and acknowledge the impact this
tragedy had on the Springfield community and our nation as a whole. I
couldn’t be more grateful to our local leaders and community members for
their partnership in advocacy and I look forward to seeing this history
preserved for generations to come.” \[[X
Post](https://x.com/RepNikkiB/status/1823728871101153527), 8/14/24\]

**Rep. Steven** **Horsford (NV-04)**: “The Congressional Black Caucus
applauds President Biden’s proclamation establishing the
Springfield 1908 Race Riot National Monument in Springfield,
Illinois. The Springfield Race Riot was a horrific moment in our
nation’s history – one that today reminds us of the strength and
resilience of our communities that have historically been subjected to
racism, intimidation, and violence. At a time when anti-education laws,
book bans, and censorship of Black history in schools are rampant, this
designation reflects President Biden and Vice President Harris’
commitment to honoring and protecting Black history and ensuring that
our stories are not lost or obfuscated over time.” \[Statement,
8/16/24\]  

**Illinois Lieutenant Governor Julianna Stratton:** “President Biden’s
designation of the Springfield 1908 Race Riot National Monument is an
act of protection for a significant chapter of Black history in Illinois
and America. The monument is a poignant reminder of the devastation
Springfield and the nation faced during a time of racial violence. We
honor the memories of the lives that were tragically cut short, the
families irrevocably shattered, and the businesses destroyed. We pay
tribute to the survivors and advocates whose resilience and
determination reverberated through time, leading to vital reforms like
the establishment of the NAACP. Their legacy serves as a powerful
reminder of our ongoing duty to confront injustice and strive for a more
equitable society. This designation underscores Illinois’ commitment to
preserving and learning from our complex history.” \[Statement, 8/14/24

**<u>Civil Rights and Community Leaders</u>**

**Derrick Johnson,** **President and CEO, NAACP:** “As we convene to
remember the tragic Springfield Race Riot of 1908, our community
continues to endure unjust violence. 116 years ago, it was William K.
Donnegan. Last month, it was his descendant, Sonya Massey. Sonya’s death
at the hands of law enforcement is a stark reminder that we have a long
way to go in the fight to protect, and honor Black life. While the
Springfield Race riot reflects a dark chapter in our history, it details
the truths of our lived experiences as Black Americans. At a time when
Black history is under attack, the NAACP welcomes the Biden-Harris
administration’s decision to recognize the horrors of the past as we
work to create a brighter tomorrow – this is just the beginning.”
\[[Statement](https://naacp.org/articles/naacp-celebrates-national-monument-designation-springfield-race-riot),
8/16/24\]

**Janai Nelson, President and Director-Counsel, NAACP Legal Defense
Fund**: “Today, President Biden affirmed the critical importance of
telling the full truth of our nation’s history, including some of its
most heinous chapters. A national monument at the site of the
Springfield Race Riot will allow people across the country, and indeed
across the globe, to not only deepen their understanding of the
brutality Black people have faced in the United States, but to also
recognize their resilience in the face of horror and tragedy. This
recognition is especially powerful at a time when there is a war on
truth and ongoing attempts to suppress the voices, history, and
political participation of Black Americans.”
\[[Statement](https://www.naacpldf.org/press-release/ldf-applauds-the-establishment-of-a-national-monument-at-the-site-of-the-1908-springfield-race-riot/),
8/16/24\]

**Austin Randolph, Jr., NAACP Springfield Chapter President:** “We must
remember, resolve and restore. The 1908 Springfield Race Riot should
live in our hearts and minds forever as a constant reminder of man’s
capacity for cruelty. Within this struggle lies the desire for equity,
peace, and healing. This national monument will forever stand for
freedom and justice. It will be our solemn reminder of where we came
from as it propels us towards where we are destined to be: equal.”
\[[Statement](https://www.lincolnpresidential.org/News/31/Community-Leaders-Celebrate-Springfield-1908-Race-Riot-National-Monument-Designation/news-detail/),
8/16/24\]

**Ken Page, President, ACLU of Illinois, Springfield Chapter**: “It was
a journey of 116 years to get to this day. We thank you Mr. President
for acknowledging the importance of telling all of America’s History.
The 1908 Springfield Race Riot was tragic. And out of this tragedy was
the birth of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored
People. As we continue this journey, America can continue to live out
her creed of Liberty, Equality, Justice and Humanity.” \[Statement,
8/16/24\] 

**Pastor T. Ray “Mac” McJunkins, Lead Pastor, Union Baptist Church of
Springfield:** “Thank you to the men and women, who have certainly been
champions for the citizens of Illinois. Lawmakers led by Senators Dick
Durbin, Tammy Duckworth, and Representatives Nikki Budzinski and Darin
LaHood. I personally appreciate your tireless efforts with the
Springfield 1908 Race Riot National Monument Act. This has been a long
time coming, though it was hindered on Capitol Hill it still prevailed.
After several conversations, meetings and visits to Washington DC, here
we are a leap forward. Today, on the 116th anniversary of the 1908 Race
Riot, President Biden, I applaud you for using the Antiquities Act to
designate the Race Riot a National Monument. This is another step to
honor those who died during the riot as well as those St. John’s
Hospital sisters who assisted the wounded. This is a continued
opportunity to raise awareness and educate present and future
generations on race relations while we commit to making this a better
nation than it was and even better than what it is.” \[Statement,
8/16/24\]

**Erin Carlson Mast, President and CEO, Lincoln Presidential
Foundation:** “As a proud partner of the National Park Service at
Lincoln Home National Historic Site, we recognize the connections
between these sites and stories. The establishment of the NAACP on
Abraham Lincoln’s birthday in 1909 underscored the enduring link between
Lincoln’s legacy and the struggle for freedom and equality. The mob
violence was local, but the impact has been national. We look forward to
working together to ensure the preservation, interpretation, and
commemoration of this important place in American history for
generations to come.”
\[[Statement](https://www.lincolnpresidential.org/News/31/Community-Leaders-Celebrate-Springfield-1908-Race-Riot-National-Monument-Designation/news-detail/),
8/16/24\]

**Dr. Samuel C. Tolbert Jr., President, National Baptist Convention of
America:** “President Biden, your leadership in making this site a
national monument reflects a deep commitment to preserving the history
of racial violence in America and ensuring that these stories are told
with the dignity and respect they deserve. This act not only brings
national attention to the atrocities of 1908 but also serves as a
powerful symbol of our collective responsibility to address the legacy
of racism in this country. Thank you for your unwavering dedication to
justice, equity, and the truth. Your decision to honor the victims and
survivors of the Springfield Race Riot by making this site a national
monument is a profound step toward healing and reconciliation.”
\[Statement, 8/16/24\]

**Reverend David Peoples, President, Progressive National Baptist
Convention**: “The story of Springfield is painful. Black businesses
were destroyed, neighborhoods were burnt to the ground, and lives were
lost in an attempt to terrorize, intimidate, and dehumanize.
Establishing the Springfield 1908 Race Riot National Monument is a
welcome step toward healing and justice as we amplify this story and
help ensure that these events are never repeated.” \[[X
Post](https://x.com/NRPEorg/status/1824460558097134010/photo/1),
8/16/24\]

**Bishop J. Drew Sheard, Church of God in Christ:** “On behalf of the
Church of God in Christ, with over 5 million congregants, I celebrate
with my brothers and sisters in Christ the recent designation of the
Springfield 1908 Race Riot National Monument. The Springfield race riot
is a story of evil racism, hatred, and violence – but it is also a story
of hope, marked by the resilience of the Black community and the
formation of the NAACP. It is important that our national lands reflect
the full truth of our country’s history; this is an important step
towards justice and healing.” \[[X
Post](https://x.com/NRPEorg/status/1824460558097134010/photo/1),
8/16/24\]

**Imam Dr. Talib M. Shareef, President, Masjid Muhammad**: “Masjid
Muhammad, known as the Nation’s Mosque, commends the Biden-Harris
Administration in its official designation of the Springfield 1908 Race
Riot National Monument, which tells the honest story of the Springfield
race riots. Our Mosque was the first built from the ground in America by
descendants of enslaved African Americans and African Muslims – we are
particularly interested in having the full story of African American
experiences, including tragedies, told and preserved. The Springfield
Monument uplifts an integral part of our American history and is an
essential addition to the National Park System.” \[[X
Post](https://x.com/NRPEorg/status/1824460558097134010/photo/1),
8/16/24\]

**Bishop Teresa Jefferson-Snorton, Christian Methodist Episcopal
Church**: “As Bishops of the Christian Methodist Episcopal (CME) Church,
we celebrate the National Park Service and the Biden Administration’s
work to officially establish the Springfield 1908 Race Riot National
Monument, ensuring that this part of Black history is not erased and
utilizing public lands and a way to proclaim the truth. The CME church,
with more than 1.2 million members across the United States, came into
being in the tumultuous aftermath of the Civil War – our vision was
then, and remains today, to be transformational in a changing world. The
changing world, wrought with strife and division, demands the presence
of truth and begs for reconciliation and healing. Efforts like this
recent designation are small but tangible and significant steps towards
this reconciliation, healing, and ultimately transformation that our
nation so greatly needs.” \[[X
Post,](https://x.com/NRPEorg/status/1824460801576468633) 8/16/24\]

**Pastor Scott Onqué, Policy Director, Faith in Place:** “We thank
President Biden for designating the 1908 Springfield Race Riot site as a
national monument–which serves as a crucial acknowledgment of a painful
history and a call to continue the fight for racial justice. This
designation is particularly meaningful for faith communities, especially
within the Black community, where houses of worship have been and
continue to be vital centers for advocacy. It honors the resilience of
those who fought for justice and encourages us to keep working toward a
more just and equitable future.” \[Statement, 8/16/24\] 

**<u>Conservation and Historic Preservation Leaders</u>**

**Ben Jealous, Executive Director, Sierra Club:** “Our public lands tell
a story, and this newest national monument finally adds this
long-overlooked chapter. For more than a century, we ignored the memory
of one of the worst episodes of racial violence in our country’s
history, just steps from the home of Abraham Lincoln, but the
Springfield community never forgot. Today, their resilience is not just
recognized, but honored. Designating the site of the 1908 Springfield
Race Riot as a national monument helps ensure that national monuments
protect not just the most precious lands and waters of the United
States, but the sites and legacies that make this country what it is.”
\[[Statement](https://www.sierraclub.org/press-releases/2024/08/sierra-club-statement-president-biden-s-designation-springfield-1908-race),
8/16/24\]

**Jamie Williams, President, The Wilderness Society**: “National
monuments help tell and preserve stories that represent the full history
of our country, and we commend the Biden-Harris administration for
commemorating the Springfield 1908 Race Riot as such. It’s important
that the administration heeded the call from community members and
elected leaders about their vision to federally recognize this painful
and tragic event that eventually was one of the catalysts to the
formation of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored
People (NAACP). This watershed moment led to a movement that ensured
that equality and justice were the values that prevailed from this sad
chapter in our nation’s history. This story and people who inspired the
movement should be honored and protected for future generations.”
\[[Statement](https://www.wilderness.org/articles/press-release/countrys-newest-national-monument-honors-communitys-fight-racial-justice),
8/16/24\]

**Jocelyn Torres, Chief Conservation Officer for Conservation Lands
Foundation**: “Commemorating the country’s varied histories through
national monument designations is an important responsibility of the
president. The Springfield Race Riot of 1908 is the first national
monument to recognize our nation’s long history of race riots and
thousands of lynchings, and showcase the birth of the NAACP and the
courage and leadership of Ida B. Wells-Barnett and other Black leaders
who fought to stop racial violence. It holds a solemn place in our
collective understanding and is deserving of this designation. We
applaud President Biden for using the Antiquities Act to commemorate the
Springfield 1908 Race Riot, ensuring that the public never forgets the
tragedies and triumphs of the Black experience in American history.”
\[Statement, 8/16/24\]

**Brent Leggs, Senior Vice President and Executive Director, National
Trust for Historic Preservation:** “116 years ago, Black residents of
Springfield, Illinois experienced the unimaginable – a race riot that
destroyed families, businesses and hope for change. Using his authority
under the Antiquities Act, President Biden has ensured the permanent
preservation and protection of the 1908 Springfield Race Riot site,
filling a critical gap in our National Park System and the nation’s
understanding of civil rights. This designation allows preservation to
be a tool for public education during a time it’s needed most. Sadly,
many of the once lived community members in Springfield have passed –
without receiving justice – as a result of hate and systemic racism.
Thankfully, a diverse coalition of civil rights leaders,
conservationists, and law makers organized together, advocating for
recognition and memorialization in their memory. Their bold steps make
room for the Springfield 1908 Race Riot National Monument to be a
resource for learning, healing, and honoring race riot victims, their
descendants, and the larger Springfield community.” \[Statement,
8/16/24\] 

**Phil Francis, Chair of the Executive Council of the Coalition to
Protect America’s National Parks, Coalition to Protect America’s
National Parks**: “We thank President Biden for designating the
Springfield 1908 Race Riot National Monument. This monument will help to
fill a critical gap in the National Park System, which currently does
not have parks that tell the story of race riots, the founding of the
NAACP, or the story of Ida B. Wells-Barnett. It is important that our
public lands tell the full American story. This designation will help to
ensure that the story of one of the worst examples of mass racial
violence in our country’s history, and the courage of Black leaders who
founded the NAACP in response, will be protected for future
generations.” \[Statement, 8/16/24\] 

**Cassandra Carmichael, Executive Director, National Religious
Partnership for the Environment**: “I celebrate the designation of the
Springfield 1908 Race Riot National Monument. Our public lands play a
significant role in telling the story of our nation and for far too
long, that story has been incomplete. In naming this newest national
monument, the Biden-Harris Administration is answering the call from
communities and leaders across the country to preserve and lift up this
important story in Black history. This national monument helps tell the
full story of American history and is a step towards reconciliation,
healing, and transformation.” \[[X
Post,](https://x.com/NRPEorg/status/1824460801576468633) 8/16/24\]

**Dr. Jocelyn Imani, Senior Director, Trust for Public Land for Black
History and Culture:** “Trust for Public Land commends President Biden
for designating the Springfield 1908 Race Riot as a National Monument.
The story of the 1908 race riot in Springfield, Illinois – one of the
worst incidences of mass racial violence in the United States – has
until recently been buried but never forgotten. Led by a mob of 5,000
white Springfield residents, the riot resulted in the lynching of two
Black residents and the deaths of at least seven others, as well as the
destruction of dozens of Black-owned homes and businesses. The riot is
also credited as catalyzing the establishment of the NAACP the following
year of 1909.”
\[[Statement](https://www.tpl.org/media-room/statement-from-trust-for-public-land-on-the-biden-harris-administrations-designation-of-the-springfield-1908-race-riot-as-a-national-monument),
8/16/24\]

**Mark Magaña, Founding President and CEO, Green Latinos**: “We thank
the Biden-Harris Administration for listening to leaders in Springfield,
Illinois and the wide base of support throughout the nation for
designating the Springfield 1908 Race Riot National Monument. The
America The Beautiful For All Coalition firmly believes that our path to
30% conserved lands and waters must be defined by the places that tell
the full American story. This national monument is the first to ensure
that all Americans remember how mass racial violence took the homes,
businesses, and lives of Black Americans. This monument will help to
make us more aware of the lasting impact these historical events had on
Black economic mobility, safety and belonging in our country. It is also
critical that this monument uncovers stories about the impact of the
1908 riots on immigrant and multicultural residents in order to reflect
the full American story at this new national monument.”  \[Statement,
8/16/24\] 

**Gene Karpinski, President, League of Conservation Voters**: “Thanks to
the tireless advocacy of the Springfield branch of the NAACP and local
advocates and activists, the Biden-Harris administration has established
a national monument to acknowledge the tragic Springfield massacre and
other forms of racial violence against Black people in our nation’s
history. The 1908 Springfield Race Riot National Monument confronts one
of the country’s most brutal instances of mass anti-Black violence and
serves as a testament to the courage of Black leaders, including Ida B.
Wells-Barnett, who fought to end racial violence. LCV commends the
Biden-Harris administration for further cementing its legacy of honoring
and protecting our nation’s cultural heritage, public lands and
historical sites, and encourages the Biden-Harris administration to
build on this legacy by continuing to champion the protection of our
nation’s public lands and cultural sites.” \[Statement, 8/16/24\] 

**Ariel Hampton, State Government Affairs Director, Illinois
Environmental Council**: “We applaud the Biden-Harris administration for
designating the site of the 1908 Springfield Race Riot as a National
Monument, and commend our partners at the Springfield branch of the
NAACP, Sierra Club Illinois, Faith Coalition for the Common Good, and
countless local activists for their work to advocate for this
designation. The mass racial violence in Springfield in 1908 has
reverberated across the past century, and the impacts continue to be
felt in Springfield and across Illinois. Today, Black residents in
Springfield are more likely to experience environmental injustices like
air pollution from the Dallman coal plant and water contamination from
lead pipes. As we work to mitigate these injustices, this National
Monument will serve as a reminder to learn from our history so as not to
repeat it.” \[Statement, 8/16/24\]

**Lauren Bogard, Director of Campaigns and Special Projects,** **Center
for Western Priorities:** “We praise President Biden for acknowledging a
terrible event in American history through the preservation of artifacts
and accounts that tell the shameful story of the 1908 Springfield Race
Riot. Black history is American history, and it is fundamental to
understanding the ongoing fight for civil rights and racial equality, a
struggle that continues to be advanced by the leadership and advocacy of
the NAACP. The establishment of this monument is a reminder that there
is more work to be done in pursuit of national healing and
reconciliation, and that the creation of new national monuments can play
a pivotal role in this necessary endeavor through acknowledging how the
events in our history continue to shape our country.”
\[[Statement](https://westernpriorities.org/2024/08/statement-on-president-bidens-establishment-of-springfield-1908-race-riot-national-monument/),
8/16/24\]

\###
