---
date: '2024-08-07'
modified_time: 2024-08-12 14:12:55-04:00
published_time: 2024-08-07 23:55:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/08/07/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-and-governor-walz-at-a-campaign-event/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris and Governor Walz at a Campaign Event in\
  \ Detroit,\_MI"
---
 
*Detroit Metropolitan Wayne County Airport  
Detroit, Michigan*

7:36 P.M. CDT  
  
     GOVERNOR WALZ:  Wow.  (Applause.)  Woo!  Wow.  Wow.  (Applause.) 
Thank you.  
  
     A big thank you to Adam.  I think we can all agree, our future is
pretty bright.  Thank you, Adam.  (Applause.)  
  
     And hello, Michigan!  (Laughs.)  (Applause.)  
  
     You know, we — we Minnesotans — you probably know this — we’re a —
we’re a stoic people, a people of few words.  (Laughter.)  But holy
hell, can you throw a party here in Michigan, so — (applause).  Wow.  
  
     I want to take a moment to acknowledge a few friends, folks that
I’ve gotten to know.  And let’s be very clear, this is someone who I
consider my dearest friend and someone who taught all the other
governors how to fix the damn roads: Governor Whitmer.  (Applause.)  You
have got a treasure in Michigan, and — and I’ll tell you what, we share
a lot between us in the Upper Midwest.  We share —  
  
     Oh, we need some water.  We have somebody down.  We need some
water.  Medic.  We need a medic right here.  You got somebody here.  You
got him?  All right.  We got a medic on the way.  
  
     Thank you for caring for your neighbors.  (Applause.)  Thank you
for showing what Michigan does.  
  
     Look, we share a lot of things.  That’s one of them.  We’re
neighbors, and we’re not weird, that’s for sure.  But — (applause) — but
I got to tell you, something else we share is a care for the incredible
natural resources.  We in the Upper Midwest, in our states, we care for
20 percent of the world’s fresh water in those Great Lakes. 
(Applause.)  And the — the Great Lakes have no better friend than your
senator, Senator Stabenow.  (Applause.)   
  
     I got some members of Congress I had the privilege of serving with
and some that are new to that place.  Let’s be clear, we got to put
gavels in the hands of these Democratic representatives so that we can
get some work done.  (Applause.)  
  
     My friend Dan Kildee; Debbie Dingell; Haley Stevens; Elissa
Slotkin; Hillary Scholten — (applause); Representive Thanedar, I
believe, just won a — in a primary year; Wayne County Executive Warren
Evans; and the chair of the Michigan Democratic Party, Lavora Barnes —
thank you.  (Applause.)  
  
     And I want to just take a moment.  It’s been a pretty interesting
24 hours for me, I’ll have to be honest.  (Applause.)  And I — I don’t
know what it — how I could explain to you walking into that arena in
Philly or that field out in Wisconsin or right here to what I have been
told is the largest rally of the campaign in here.  (Applause.)  
  
     And look — and look, this is a place full of working folks,
students, folks who care.  And I — think about this, you came out here
early, found a place to park, stood in the sun, sat here and wait, and
you did it.  You did it for one simple and eloquent and beautiful
reason: You love this country.  (Applause.)  You love this country.  
  
     I couldn’t be prouder to be on this ticket and to help make Kamala
Harris the next president of the United States.  (Applause.)  Every day
of her life, Vice President Harris fights for the American people. 
She’s taken on predators, fraudsters, and transnational gangs.  You
heard it.  She stood up to powerful corporate interests, and she has
never hesitated to reach across the aisle to try and find some common
solutions.   
  
     And she has done it, and this is what we know: All the things that
make me mad about those other guys and all the things they do wrong, the
one thing that I will not forgive them for is they’re trying to steal
the joy from this country.  They try and steal the joy.  (Applause.)  
  
     But you know what?  You know what?  Our next president brings the
joy.  She emanates the joy.  (Applause.)  
  
     I know a little something about that commitment to people.  I was
born in a small town of 400 people in Nebraska, and community was the
way of life.  My mom and dad taught me you showed generosity to your
neighbors and you worked for a common good amongst them.  
  
     At 17, I joined the Army National Guard.  (Applause.)  And for the
next 24 years, it was a privilege to wear the uniform of this country,
and — (applause) — and just as it did for my dad, a Korean War-era
veteran, and millions of others, I used the G.I. Bill to get a college
education.  (Applause.)  
  
     Followed a bit in my dad’s footsteps — he was a teacher. 
(Applause.)  My brothers and sisters were teachers.  (Applause.)  And
they married teachers.  (Applause.)  
  
     I had the privilege of teaching high school social studies —
(applause) — and I coached the football team.  (Applause.)  We did win a
state championship.  I tell you that because “don’t ever close the
yearbook” is my pro tip to you.  (Laughter.)   
  
     My students are the ones who encouraged me to run for office.  I
never thought much about it.  But they saw — they saw in me what I hope
to instill in them: a commitment to the common good, a true belief that
one person truly can make a difference — can make a difference in the
world.  (Applause.)   
  
     I lived in a district where — I didn’t know this at the time — only
one other Democrat since 1892 had won that district.  And on that
election night, my neighbors graced me with the opportunity to go to the
United States Congress and represent them.  (Applause.)   
  
     I learned how to compromise without compromising my values. I
learned how to work across the aisle to get good things done for
people.  And now as governor of Minnesota, I bring those experiences
together so we can tackle some of those hard problems: inequities,
climate change, all of the things that we care about.  (Applause.)  
  
     Now, we got a lot of shared values in this room.  By the way, is
labor in the room?  (Applause.)  This might be my chance to use it.  
  
     AUDIENCE:  UAW!  UAW!  UAW!  
  
     GOVERNOR WALZ:  Yeah!  (Claps.)  
  
     AUDIENCE:  UAW!  UAW!  UAW!  
  
     GOVERNOR WALZ:  We know who built the middle class, but here’s the
deal.  What we know is, Donald Trump — he sees the world a bit
differently than we see the world.  And I’ve been saying it: He doesn’t
know the first thing about service,  
because he’s way too busy serving himself.  This is a big difference.  
  
     Again and again, he does things that weakens our country only to
strengthen his own hand.  He mocks our laws, he sows chaos and division
amongst the public, and that’s to say nothing about his record as
president.  That —  
  
     AUDIENCE MEMBER:  (Inaudible.)  (Laughter.)  
  
     GOVERNOR WALZ:  He is that.  He is that.   
  
     Look, we had the worst crisis of a generation, and he froze during
COVID.  (Applause.)  People lost their lives because of that.  He drove
the economy into the ground.  And make no mistake, violent crime was up
during Donald Trump’s presidency.  (Applause.)  And that’s not even
counting the crimes he committed, so — (applause).  
  
     Some of the — some of the gray-hairs in here remember a Republican
Party that used to actually talk about freedom.  These guys, when they
talk about freedom, it means the government has the freedom to invade
your exam room with your doctor.   
  
     AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
  
     GOVERNOR WALZ:  Now, I know — look, that — we got a lot of
commonalities.  And I’ll say this: As an NFC North guy, Vikings fans are
proud of the Lions.  I will say that.  (Laughs.)  I will say that. 
(Applause.)  
  
     But in Minnesota, we respect our neighbors’ personal choices.  We
may not agree with them or make them from ourself, but I’ve been saying
this — you all know it — our golden rule is: Mind your own damn
business.  Just mind your own business.  (Applause.)  It’s amazing what
minding your own damn business does to make things work better. 
(Applause.)  
  
     Don’t like a book?  Don’t read it.  (Laughter and applause.)  
  
     Is there anybody in America sitting around in a bar, a bunch of
people talking and say, “You know what we need in this country?  We need
to ban ‘Animal Farm.’  That’s the first thing that you can do.”  Nobody
says that.  (Laughter.)   
  
     But you know what?  It would be funny if it wasn’t so dangerous,
because then they start thinking about things like IVF and banning
IVF.   
  
     And I have to tell you, this is very personal for my family.  When
my wife and I decided to have children, we went through years of
fertility treatments.  I remember every time the phone rang, I’d catch
my breath, I’d feel nervousness, and then it would be a crushing feeling
when they told us that the treatments didn’t work.  The agony of that I
can feel to this day.  
  
     But I can also feel some joy in this, because it wasn’t by chance,
as I say this, when our daughter — and we finally conceived — and our
daughter was born, we didn’t hesitate at all.  We named her Hope.  We
named her Hope.  (Applause.)  
  
     But I do have to tell you something about hope — my wife always
tells me this: It’s not a damn plan.  We can’t hope we beat this guy. 
We can’t hope that things get better.  We go out and work our butts off
to make sure it happens.  (Applause.)   
  
     So, when our next president walks out here and she talks about
freedom, she means the freedom to make your own health care decisions. 
(Applause.)   
  
     And when she comes out here and talks about that our children
should be free to go to school without being shot dead in their
classrooms.  (Applause.)  Look, we believe strongly in Minnesota in the
Second Amendment, just like you do, but we also believe strongly in
commonsense gun violence prevention law.  (Applause.)  
  
Freedom to an education is a ticket to the middle class, not crushing
student loan debt.  (Applause.)  
  
And it’s a place where we know freedom means we settle our political
differences not through violence but with our votes.  (Applause.)  
  
You get it.  You — you drove out here —  
  
AUDIENCE:  Vote!  Vote!  Vote!  
  
GOVERNOR WALZ:  Yeah!  (Claps.)  
  
AUDIENCE:  Vote!  Vote!  Vote!  
  
GOVERNOR WALZ:  Please.  Look, and — and let’s all decide right now on
this, or whatever.  We know it’s going to be hard race.  We know it’s
going to be close, but let’s don’t be so close that these guys have
anything to say.  Let’s don’t be so close that they’re going to come —
let’s just win the damn thing by a broader margin.  (Applause.)  
  
Simple proposition: This election is about which direction this country
is going to go in.  We know Donald Trump is taking us backwards.  And
don’t believe the act — he’s playing dumb –he knows exactly what Project
2025 is going to do to our personal liberties.  
  
AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
  
GOVERNOR WALZ:  Destroy unions, rig the economy for the
ultra-wealthy.   
  
We know that when he goes back, he’s picking up and doing the same
things he did when he was there the last time, except — except — you all
know this — it will be much, much worse when he comes back: raising
costs for all of you, repealing the Affordable Care Act — he doesn’t
care — gutting Social Security.  And be very clear: They can say
whatever they want, they are banning abortion across this country.  No
questions asked.  No questions asked.   
  
AUDIENCE: Booo —  
  
GOVERNOR WALZ:  Yeah, you think this guy — you think this guy cares
about you or your family?  
  
AUDIENCE:  No!  
  
GOVERNOR WALZ:  His running mate has the same dangerous and backward
agenda as Trump.  
  
Well, heck, you all know it.  Every — every regular person in the
heartland went to Yale — (laughter) — had — had Silicon Valley
billionaires fund his career.  And then he writes a book trashing the
very community that raised him.   
  
AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
  
GOVERNOR WALZ:  That old thing is, “I wasn’t calling anybody names.  I
was just making an observation about them.”  We can see it.   
  
And here’s my thing, there’s a lot of things going to happen, by the
way.  We’ve got about 91 days.  And I keep telling people this: 91
days.  My God, you can do anything for 91 days.   
  
AUDIENCE:  Ninety!  
  
GOVERNOR WALZ:  Ninety?  Christ, I haven’t slept in 24 hours. 
(Laughter.)  You know — you know why?  We’ll sleep when we’re dead. 
We’ll sleep when we’re dead.  (Applause.)  
  
Here’s my — here’s my brass ring I’m looking for: I can’t wait to debate
this guy.  I cannot wait to talk about what they think.  (Applause.)  I
can’t wait to ask him why he wants to take health care and take
reproductive rights and why he wants to make sure that the wealthiest
pay no taxes as we destroy unions and the middle class.   
  
So, here’s the deal.  You said it.  These ideas that they’re putting out
there, they are weird as hell.  No one is asking for it.  No one is
asking for it.  (Applause.)  
  
We’re asking a fair shot.  We’re asking for health care and childcare. 
We’re asking for an education.  We’re asking for safety in our streets. 
That’s what we’re asking for.  (Applause.)  And we’re going to get it,
because that’s what this campaign is about.  It’s about moving forward. 
(Applause.)  
  
Look, you know that Kamala Harris believes that you should be making the
own choices in your life.  She believes that every person should have an
opportunity to enter the middle class.  She believes in something so
beautiful and simple with joy: She believes in the promise of this great
nation.  (Applause.)  
  
Look, she can take care of herself out front, and she said it.  If they
want to talk smack, she said it: “Say it to my face, damn it.  Say it to
my face.”  (Applause.)  
  
But what I got to say is, we got to have her back.  We got to have her
back.  (Applause.)  So, Madam Vice President, thank you for the trust
you placed in me.   
  
Michigan, help me right now give a warm Midwest welcome to the next
president of the United States, Kamala Harris.  (Applause.)  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Good evening, Detroit!  (Applause.)  Good evening. 
(Laughs.)  (Applause.)  
  
We got this.  We’re going to do this.  We are doing this.  We are doing
this.  (Applause.)  
  
Thank you, thank you.  (Applause.)  Thank you, thank you, thank you.   
  
AUDIENCE:  Kamala!  Kamala!  Kamala!  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.  
  
AUDIENCE:  Kamala!  Kamala!  Kamala!  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Okay, come on.  We’ve got thi- — we’ve got business
to handle.  We’ve got business to handle.  (Applause.)  
  
Good evening, everybody.  (Applause.)  Good evening, good evening, good
evening.   
  
Can we hear it up for Tim Walz?  (Applause.)  Isn’t he amazing?  He’s
going to be the most incredible vice president.  (Applause.)  
  
All right.  So, it is good to be back and to be with so many incredible
leaders.  I love you.  (Applause.)  
  
Governor Gretchen Whitmer, thank you for your — (applause) — thank you
for your friendship, your sisterhood, and your leadership.  And we are
going to do this together.  (Applause.)  
  
Lieutenant Governor Garlin Gilchrist, thank you so much.  (Applause.)  
His parents are over there.  
  
And the members of Congress, including Senator Debbie Stabenow, my dear
friend.  (Applause.)  
  
And your next United States Senator, Representative Elissa Slotkin. 
(Applause.)  We’re going to get that done.   
  
Mayor Mike Duggan, thank you for the warm welcome always.   
  
And, of course, it is so good to be with the president of the United
Auto Workers, my dear friend, Shawn Fain.  (Applause.)  
  
And last year — last week, it was my honor — it feels like last year —
(laughter) — last week, it was my great honor to accept the endorsement
of the United Auto Workers.  (Applause.)  
  
AUDIENCE:  UAW!  UAW!  UAW!  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And the UAW has always worked to lift up the
working people of our nation.  
  
Do we need some help over there?  I need — we need a medic over there,
please.  There should be medics in each corner.   
  
We’re good?  Okay.  All right.  Look, let’s all take care of each other
and look f- — look out for each other, all right?  (Applause.)  That’s
who we are.  We look out for each other.  
  
Okay.  So, as I said to Shawn — (applause) — as I talked to Shawn about
this, this election is going to be a fight.  We like a good fight. 
(Applause.)   
  
When you know what you stand for, you know what to fight for.  We know
what we stand for.  (Applause.)  
  
So, I’m so proud to have UAW by my side, because you all know how to
fight and you know how to win.  (Applause.)  
  
Today, I also bring greetings from our incredible president, Joe Biden. 
(Applause.)   
  
AUDIENCE:  Joe!  Joe!  Joe!  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  That’s right.  Joe.  
  
ADUIENCE:  Joe!  Joe!  Joe!  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  That’s right.  (Claps.)  
  
AUDIENCE:  Joe!  Joe!  Joe!  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And I know we are all deeply, deeply grateful to
Joe for his lifetime of service to our nation.  And we thank you, Joe
Biden, each and every day for all you are and all you still have yet to
do.  (Applause.)  
  
AUDIENCE:  Thank you, Joe!  Thank you, Joe!  Thank you, Joe!  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Joe.  
  
AUDIENCE:  Thank you, Joe!  Thank you, Joe!  Thank you, Joe!  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  That’s right.  I’m going to tell him what you
said.  (Laughs.)  
  
So, Michigan, this has been a big week.  (Applause.)  On Monday, I
officially became the Democratic nominee for president of the United
States.  (Applause.)  And yesterday, I announced my running mate in this
campaign, Governor Tim Walz.  (Applause.)  
  
And as you just heard, he has an incredible record as governor of the
great state of Minnesota.  And to those who know him best — some people
are just getting to know him, but I’m going to tell you, you got to know
him real quick, because he’s incredible.  He’s a serious, serious man. 
He has been a serious leader, and he loves our country.   
  
And, you know, I’ve talked to some of the people who know him best, like
his wife, Gwen.  And to Gwen, Tim Walz is husband.  To his kids, Hope
and Gus, he is dad.  To his fellow veterans, he is Sergeant Major Walz. 
(Applause.)  To the people of southern Minnesota, for 12 years, he was a
congressman.  (Applause.)  To his former high school students, he is Mr.
Walz.  (Applause.)  And to his former high school football players, he
was Coach.  (Applause.)   
  
And in 90 days, the nation will know Coach Walz by the title “vice
president of the United States.”  (Applause.)  That’s right.  
  
So, it is so good to be back in Michigan.  And listen, I am clear: The
path to the White House runs right through this state.  (Applause.)  And
with your help, we will win in November.  We will win.  (Applause.)  
  
And I know we are all clear about what we are up against.   
  
As many of you know, before I was elected vice president, before I was
elected as a United States senator, I was elected attorney general and,
before that, elected district attorney — and, before that, I was a
courtroom prosecutor.  (Applause.)   
  
In those roles, I took on perpetrators of all kinds: predators who
abused women, fraudsters who ripped off consumers, scammers who broke
the rules for personal gain.   
  
So, hear me Detroit when I say: I know Donald Trump’s type. 
(Applause.)  I’ve been dealing with them my whole career.   
  
For example, as attorney general of California, I took on one of the
country’s largest for-profit colleges that scammed students.  Well,
Donald Trump ran a for-profit college that scammed students.  You
remember that?  
  
AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  As a prosecutor, I specialized in cases of sexual
abuse.  Well, Donald Trump was found liable for committing sexual
abuse.   
  
AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  As attorney general, I held the big Wall Street
banks accountable for fraud.  Well, Donald Trump was just found guilty
of fraud — 34 counts, to be exact.   
  
AUDIENCE:  Lock him up!  Lock him up!  Lock him up!  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Hold on, hold on, hold on.  You know what?  Here —
hold on.  Here’s the thing.  The courts are going to handle that.  We’re
going to beat them in November.  (Applause.)  We’re going to beat him in
November, okay?  We’ll beat him in November.  We’ll handle that.  
  
But all that to say, in this campaign, I proudly put my record against
his any day of the week — (applause) — any day of the week.  
  
But make no mistake, our campaign — this campaign is not just about us
versus Donald Trump.  It’s bigger than that.  It is about two very
different visions for the future of our nation — one, ours, focused on
the future and the other focused on the past.   
  
     And, Michigan, we — we here fight for the future.  (Applause.)  We
fight for the future.  We fight for a future where every worker has the
freedom to join a union — (applause); where every senior can retire with
dignity — (applause); a future with affordable housing, affordable
childcare, affordable health care, and paid leave — (applause); a future
where we build a broad-based economy where every American has an
opportunity to own a home, to start a business, and to build wealth. 
(Applause.)  
  
     And understand, in this fight, we are joyful warriors — (applause)
— because while fighting for a brighter future may take hard work, we
all here know hard work is good work.  (Applause.)  Hard work is good
work.   
  
     We believe in a future where we lower the cost of living for
America’s families so they have a chance not just to get by but to get
ahead.  (Applause.)  Because, look, while our economy is doing well by
many measures, prices for everyday things like groceries are still too
high.  You know it, and I know it.   
  
     When I was attorney general, I went after price-fixing schemes. 
And when I am president, it will be my day one priority to fight to
bring down prices — (applause); to take on the big corporations that
engage in illegal price gouging — (applause); take on corporate
landlords that unfairly raise rents on working families — (applause); to
take on Big Pharma and cap the cost of prescription drugs for all
Americans.  (Applause.)  That is the work we will do together.   
  
     And all of this to say, unlike Donald Trump, I will always put the
middle class and working families first — (applause) — because Coach
Walz and I know the middle class built this great country of ours, and
when the middle class is strong, America is strong.  (Applause.)  
  
     And, look, as we move our nation forward, Donald Trump intends to
take our nation backward.  Just look at his Project 2025 agenda —
Project 2025.  
  
     AUDIENCE:  We’re not going back!  We’re not going back!  We’re not
going back!  We’re not going back!  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And please do check out Project 2025, because
I’m telling you, it is a plan — it is a plan to weaken America’s middle
class.  Project 2025, if he is elected —  
  
     AUDIENCE:  (Inaudible.)  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  It’s all good.  It’s all good.  I’m here
because we believe in democracy.  Everyone’s voice matters.  But I am
speaking now.  (Applause.)  I am speaking now.   
  
     So, Project 2025 — look, if he is elected, Donald Trump intends to
give tax breaks to billionaires and big corporations.  He intends to cut
Social Security and Medicare.  He intends to surrender our fight against
the climate crisis.  And he intends to end the Affordable Care Act.   
  
     You know what?  If you want Donald Trump to win, then say that. 
Otherwise, I’m speaking.  (Applause.)   
  
     AUDIENCE:  We’re not going back!  We’re not going back!  We’re not
going back!  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  (Inaudible.)  We’re not going back.  We’re not
going back.  
  
     AUDIENCE:  We’re not going back!  We’re not going back!  We’re not
going back!  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And we’re not going back because we know what
that would look like.  And, again, understand: Donald Trump intends to
end the Affordable Care Act and take us back to a time when insurance
companies had the power to deny people with preexisting conditions.   
  
     We all remember what that looked like, and we’re not going back. 
(Applause.)  We’re not going back.  Our fight is a fight for the future,
and it is a fight for freedom.  (Applause.)  
  
     Across our nation, we are witnessing a full-on attack on
hard-fought, hard-won fundamental freedoms and rights, and we will not
stand for it.  (Applause.)  Attacks on the freedom to vote, attacks on
the freedom to be safe from gun violence, the freedom to breathe clean
air and drink clean water, the freedom to love who you love openly and
with pride — (applause) — and the freedom of a woman to make decisions
about her own body and not have her government tell her what to do. 
(Applause.)  
  
     Generations — generations of Americans before us led the fight for
freedom.  Now the baton is in our hands, each and every one of us. 
(Applause.)  So, we who believe in the sacred freedom to vote will
finally pass the John Lewis Voting Rights Act and the Freedom to Vote
Act.  (Applause.)  
  
     We who believe in the freedom to live safe from gun violence will
finally pass an assault weapons ban, universal background checks, and
red flag laws.  (Applause.)  We who believe in the freedom to organize
will pass the PRO Act and put an end to union-busting once and for all. 
(Applause.)   
  
     And we who believe in reproductive freedom will fight for a woman’s
right to choose — (applause) — remembering what Donald Trump did to pick
three members of the United States Supreme Court with the intention that
they would take away this freedom, and they did as he intended.   
  
     AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  We who are paying attention to the fact that
now over 20 states in our country have a Trump abortion ban, many with
no exceptions even for rape and incest.  And we all know, if he wins, he
would sign a national abortion ban to outlaw abortion in every state,
and that would include the great state of Michigan.  (Applause.)  But
we’re not going back.   
  
     AUDIENCE:  We’re not going back!  We’re not going back!  We’re not
going back!  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And on that point, it is because there is a
thing about who we are that is a bit different from the folks on the
other side.  We trust women to know what is in their best interests —
(applause) — and not have their government telling them what to do.   
  
     And when I am president of the United States and Congress passes a
bill to restore reproductive freedoms, I will sign it into law. 
(Applause.)   
  
     So, Michigan, here’s the thing.  So much — so much — so much is on
the line in this election.  (Applause.)  And we got to remember, you
know, we — we knew — we knew who he is and what he was about in ‘16 and
in ‘20.  But there’s also something else that has happened recently that
we really have to prioritize in our mind about the danger we’re looking
at.  
  
     Last month, the United States Supreme Court basically just told the
former president, who has been convicted of fraud, that going forward,
he will be immune no matter what he does in the White House.   
  
     AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  But think about that.  Think about that. 
Think about what that means.  Think about what that means.  The man has
openly vowed, if reelected, that he will be a dictator on day one.   
  
     AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Think about what that means when he said that
he will even, quote, “terminate” the Constitution of the United
States.   
  
     AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
  
 THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Because let us be very clear: Someone who suggests
we should terminate the Constitution of the United States should never
again stand behind the seal of the president of the United
States.  (Applause.)  Never again.   
  
     AUDIENCE:  Vote!  Vote!  Vote!  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Vote.  Vote.   
  
     AUDIENCE:  Vote!  Vote!  Vote!  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Vote.  That’s right.  So, here’s the thing. 
To your point, when it comes down to all of the things that are
important about this, I think the most important thing —  
  
     AUDIENCE MEMBER:  I love you, Kamala!  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  I love you back.  (Applause.)   
  
     And — listen, one of the things that I know brings us all out today
and always is we love our country.  (Applause.)  We love our country. 
We love our country.   
  
     And I do believe it is the highest form of patriotism to fight for
the ideals of our country.  That is how we preserve the promise of
America.   
  
     After all, the promise of America — think about it — is what makes
it possible for Tim Walz and me to be together on this stage today. 
(Applause.)  Think about it.  Think about that.  Two middle class kids. 
One a daughter of Oakland, California — (applause) — who was raised by a
working mother — I had a summer job at McDonald’s.  The other, a son of
the Nebraska plains who grew up working on a farm.   
  
     Only in America is it possible for them together to make it all the
way to the White House.  (Applause.)  Only in America.  Only in
America.   
  
     So, we are running this campaign on behalf of all Americans — from
red states to blue states, from the heartland to the coasts.  And when
elected, I promise you, we will govern on behalf of all Americans. 
(Applause.)  I promise that.  
  
     So, I’ll close with this.  Michigan, ultimately, in this election,
we each face a question.  We each face a question.  What kind of country
do we want to live in?  A country of freedom, compassion, and rule of
law or a country of chaos, fear, and hate?   
  
     AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And the beauty of our democracy — the beauty
of our democracy: We each have the power to answer that question.  We
each have the power to answer that question.  (Applause.)  The power is
with the people.  (Applause.)   
  
     So, in the next 90 days, we need you to use your power. 
(Applause.)  We need you to knock on some doors.  (Applause.)  We need
you to register folks to vote.  (Applause.)  We need you to organize and
energize and mobilize — (applause) — and make your voices heard.   
  
     So, Michigan, I ask you, are you ready to make your voices heard? 
(Applause.)  Do we believe in freedom?  (Applause.)  Do we believe in
opportunity?  (Applause.)  Do we believe in the promise of America? 
(Applause.)  And are we ready to fight for it?  (Applause.)  
  
     And when we fight —  
  
     AUDIENCE:  We win!  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — we win.  (Applause.)   
  
     God bless you.  And God bless the United States.  (Applause.)   
  
                             END                8:22 P.M. CDT

\###
