---
date: '2024-08-20'
modified_time: 2024-08-21 12:27:11-04:00
published_time: 2024-08-20 23:30:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/08/20/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-a-campaign-event-in-milwaukee-wi/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at a Campaign Event in Milwaukee,\_WI"
---
 
*Fiserv Forum  
Milwaukee, Wisconsin*

 8:09 P.M. CDT

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Good evening, Milwaukee!  (Laughs.) 
(Applause.)  And hello to everyone joining us from exciting Chicago.

     The delegates at the Democratic National Convention — well, they
just completed their roll call.  (Laughs.)  (Applause.)  And they have
nominated Coach Walz and me to be the next vice president and president
of the United States of America.  (Applause.)

     And I thank everyone there and here for believing in what we can do
together.  We are so honored to be your nominees. 

     This is a people-powered campaign, and together, we will chart a
new way forward — (applause) — a future for freedom, opportunity, of
optimism and faith. 

     So, to everyone in Chicago and across America, thank you.  Thank
you.  (Applause.)  Thank you.

     And you’re going to hear from our wonderful second gentleman
shortly.  I’ll see you in two days, Chicago.  (Applause.)

     Hey, Milwaukee!  (Laughs.)  (Applause.)

     Oh, it’s good to be back in Milwaukee.  So — it’s good to be back
in Milwaukee.  It really is.  (Laughs.)  (Applause.)  Thank you, thank
you, thank you.

     So, as you know, the coach and I were together here in Wisconsin
just two weeks ago — (applause) — and — and the first rally after I
announced that he would be my running mate.  And it is so good to be
back with all of you.  (Applause.)  So good to be back.

     And today, of course, I always and also bring greetings from our
incredible president, Joe Biden.  (Applause.)  Wasn’t he terrific last
night?  (Applause.)

     And I know we are all deeply grateful for his lifetime of service
to our nation.  (Applause.)  Thank you, Joe.

     AUDIENCE:  Thank you, Joe!  Thank you, Joe!  Thank you, Joe!  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Joe.   
  
     AUDIENCE:  Thank you, Joe!  Thank you, Joe!  Thank you, Joe!  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Joe.  Thank you, Joe.  
  
AUDIENCE:  Thank you, Joe!  Thank you, Joe!  Thank you, Joe!  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So, Wisconsin, we have 77 days until the
election — (applause) — 77 days.  And, look, we know this is going to be
a tight race until the very end. 

     AUDIENCE MEMBER:  We’re going to win!

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  We have some hard work ahead of us. 
(Laughs.)  (Applause.)  We have hard work ahead of us, but we like hard
work.  Hard work is good work.  (Applause.)  (Laughs.) 

     (Inaudible.)

     And with your help this November, we will win.  (Applause.)  We’ll
win.

     AUDIENCE:  We will win!  We will win!  We will win!

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  We will win.  We will win.

     AUDIENCE:  We will win!  We will win!  We will win! 

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Because —

     AUDIENCE:  We will win!  We will win!  We will win!

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And bec- — we will because we’re going to put
in the hard work over the next 77 days.  (Applause.)

     AUDIENCE MEMBER:  You already won!  You already won!

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  No — no, we haven’t already won. 
Seventy-seven days of work to do, my friends.  (Laughs.)  (Applause.)

     So, listen, make no mistake — make no mistake: As we all know, this
campaign is not just about us versus Donald Trump.  This is not just
about us versus Donald Trump.  This is about two very different visions
for our nation.  One, ours, focused on the future; the other focused on
the past.  And, Wisconsin, we fight for the future.  (Applause.)  We
fight for the future. 

     We believe in the future — a future with affordable health care, a
future with affordable childcare, a future with affordable housing and
paid leave.  That’s the future we believe in.  (Applause.) 

     We believe in a future where we build an opportunity economy, where
every American has the opportunity to own a home, start a business, and
build wealth, including intergenerational wealth.  That’s what we
believe in.  (Applause.) 

     We believe in the future of our country.  We believe in a future
where we lower the cost of living for America’s families.  And when I am
president, I will bring down the cost of groceries by making sure
markets are competitive and fair.  (Applause.)

     Together with Coach, we will take on Big Pharma and cap the cost of
prescription medication for all Americans.  (Applause.) 

     We will take on the high cost of housing, understanding so many
people are trying to fulfill the American dream and we need to give
people help to get there.  (Applause.)

     In fact, last week, I announced my plan to build millions of new
homes and help first-time homebuyers with a down payment — (applause) —
knowing that’s a step to get where we need to go.

     And my tax plan will give 100 million more Americans a tax cut,
including $6,000 to families during the first year of a child’s life. 
(Applause.)  That’s about help with a car seat, with a crib, with
diapers, with baby clothes. 

     If we care about children, then let’s help people — help people —
(applause) — do what they naturally want to do but don’t always have the
resources to do it.

     And unlike Donald Trump, I will always put the middle class and
working families first.  (Applause.)  
  
But now we know he has a different plan — Trump.  Right?  Just look at
Project 2025.  
  
AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Now, if he is elected, understand what that — you
know, by the way, can you believe they put that thing in writing,
right?  
  
So, that plan, though, tells us what they’re up to.  Donald Trump
intends to give tax breaks to billionaires and big corporations.   
  
AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  He intends to cut Social Security and Medicare.  
  
AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And he wants to impose what is, in effect, a
national sales tax, which will cost a typical family $3,900 a year.   
  
AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Understand that.  
  
And on top of all of this, he intends to end the Affordable Care Act.   
  
AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And you remember what that was like, when insurance
companies could deny people with preexisting conditions?  Do you
remember what that was?  Breast cancer survivors, children with
diabetes, grandparents who need help and support being denied care.   
  
We’re not going back.  (Applause.)  
  
AUDIENCE:  We’re not going back!  We’re not going back!  We’re not going
back!  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  We are not going back.  We are not going back.  
  
     AUDIENCE:  We’re not going back!  We’re not going back!  We’re not
going back!   
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  We will move forward.  Just like Wisconsin’s
state motto tells us: Forward!  (Applause.)  Forward.  
  
     Ours is a fight for the future, and it is a fight for freedom. 
(Applause.)  And it is a fight for freedom, like the freedom of a woman
to make decisions about her own body  
and not have her government telling her what to do.  (Applause.)  
  
You know, I don’t know what’s up with these people, by the way.  I mean,
they just seemingly don’t trust women.   
  
Well, we trust women.  (Applause.)  We trust women.   
  
And we know how we got to this place.  We know how we got to this place,
with now over 20 — over 20 Trump abortion bans.  We know how we got
here.  The former president, Trump, hand-selected three members of the
United States Supreme Court —  
  
AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — with the intention — with the intention that they
would undo the protections of Roe v. Wade.  And as he intended, they
did.   
  
AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And then, in state after state, they proposed and
passed laws to punish women, criminalize health care providers — in some
states, not even making an exception for rape or incest.   
  
AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And just yesterday, when he was asked if he has any
regrets about ending Roe v. Wade, Donald Trump — Donald Trump, without
even a moment’s hesitation — you would think you would reflect on it for
a second — (laughter) — said no.  “No regrets.”  
  
AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And that’s because — I do believe, you know, bad
behavior should result in a consequence.  (Applause.)   
  
Well, we will make sure he does face a consequence, and that will be at
the ballot box in November — (applause) — in November — in November.  
  
And I promise you, when I am president of the United States and Congress
passes a bill — (applause) — to restore the protections of Roe v. Wade,
I will proudly sign it into law.  (Applause.)  
  
And, Wisconsin, in addition to that, as you all know, we are witnessing
across our nation a full-on attack on hard-fought, hard-won, fundamental
freedoms and rights — across our nation — like the freedom to vote —
(applause); the freedom to be safe from gun violence — (applause); the
freedom to love who you love openly and with pride.  (Applause.)  
  
So, we know what we’re dealing with in this moment.  And we must
remember: As the generations of Americans before us who led the fight
for freedom, the baton is now in our hands.  (Applause.)  We carry the
baton.  We carry the baton.   
  
And so much is on the line in this election.  And understand — we have
to understand something: This is not 2016 or 2020.  This is not 2016 or
2020.  And, in particular, the stakes are higher for a lot of reasons,
because we know what he does when he’s in office, but including that,
last month, the Supreme Court of the United States basically told the
former president that he will effectively be immune —  
  
AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — for what he does in the White House.   
  
Now, think about what that means.  Think about what that means, knowing
the individual we’re talking about.   
  
Donald Trump has openly vowed to be a dictator on day one.   
  
AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  He has openly indicated his intention to weaponize
the Department of Justice against his political enemies.   
  
AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Think about what we know about him and what he’s
told us.  He even called for, quote — quote, “the termination of the
Constitution of the United States.”   
  
AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So, let us be very clear.  Somebody who intends to
terminate the Constitution of the United States should never again have
the opportunity to stand behind the seal of the President of the United
States.  (Applause.)  Never again.   
  
AUDIENCE:  We’re not going back!  We’re not going back!  We’re not going
back!  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  We’re not going back.  We’re not going back.  
  
AUDIENCE:  We’re not going back!  We’re not going back!  We’re not going
back!  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  We’re not going back.  We’re not going back.  We’re
going forward.  
  
AUDIENCE:  We’re not going back!  We’re not going back!  We’re not going
back!  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  We’re not going back.  We’re not going back.  
  
     So — Tim just looked at me and said, “We’re not going back, I
think.”  (Laughter.)  
  
     So, Milwaukee, here’s the thing, as you all know.  It’s why you are
here.  It’s why you have taken the time to be here this evening.  It all
comes down —  
  
     AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Kamala, I love you!  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  I love you back.  And it all comes down to
this.  (Applause.)  We’re here — thank you.  But, yeah — thank you. 
(Applause.)  
  
     But here’s the thing.  Here’s the thing.  The reason that we are
all here together, spending this time together, truly and deeply, is
because we love our country.  We love — we love our country. 
(Applause.)  We believe in our country.  (Applause.)  
  
     AUDIENCE:  USA!  USA!  USA!  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  We believe in our country.   
  
     AUDIENCE:  USA!  USA!  USA!  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  That’s right.  
  
     And I do believe — I do believe that it is the highest form of
patriotism — the highest form of patriotism to then fight for the ideals
of our country.  And that’s what we are here to do.  (Applause.)  
  
     And that — and that — and that is how we fulfill the promise of
America — (applause) — the promise of America.  And it is that promise
of America —  
  
     AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Medical!  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  We need a medical assistant here.  Okay.  We
need a nurse.  We need a medic here, please.   
  
     Let’s just make a — let’s make a path.  Let’s make a path, if you
all don’t mind.  Just let’s make a path to right here.  Let’s just
create a path to right here.  Let’s create a path. (Applause.)  
  
     Let’s create a path, guys.  And thanks for looking out each other —
look out for each other.  But let’s — let’s create a path for the
medics.  Okay.  (Applause.)  
  
     Okay.  (Applause.)  You okay?  Okay.  Okay.  Okay.  We’re going to
be okay.  We’re going to be okay.  All right.  (Applause.)  Okay.  We’re
going to be okay.   
  
     This is who we are, right?  This is what we’re about: looking out
for each other.  The thing — we care about each other.  (Applause.)  
  
     You know, it’s about truly understanding what “love thy neighbor”
means.  (Applause.)  It’s about, in the face of a perfect stranger,
seeing a neighbor, understanding what that love of each other means. 
(Applause.)  It’s a big difference between what we’re talking about and
what’s on the other side.   
  
     So, listen, I’ll just — I’ll end with this point: the promise of
America.  The promise of America is what we are fighting for, and it is
that promise that I think makes it possible that Coach Governor Walz and
I would be sharing the same ticket.  Think about that.  (Applause.) 
Think about that.  Think about it in the context of the promise of
America.  
  
     Two middle-class kids.  One born in Oakland, California, to a
working mom.  The other, a son of the Nebraska plains who grew up
working on a farm.  (Applause.)  I worked at a McDonald’s.  (Laughter
and applause.)   
  
     But only in America — only in America is it possible for them
together to make it all the way to the White House.  (Applause.)  Only
in America.  Only in America.  (Applause.)  
  
     So, my last point is this.  In this election, we each face a
question.  And that question is: What kind of country do we want to live
in?  Right?  
  
     Do we want to live in a country of chaos and fear and hate —  
  
     AUDIENCE:  No!  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — no — or a country of freedom, compassion,
and rule of law?  (Applause.)  
  
     And the beauty — the beauty of our democracy — listen, the beauty
of our democracy is we each have the power to answer that question. 
Each and every one of us has the power to answer that question. 
(Applause.)  Each one of us.  
  
     That’s our power.  The power is with the people.  (Applause.)  
  
     So, Wisconsin, today, I ask: Are you ready to have your voices
heard?  (Applause.)  
  
     Do we believe in freedom?  (Applause.)  
  
     Do we believe in opportunity?  (Applause.)  
  
     Do we believe in the promise of America?  (Applause.)  
  
     And are we ready to fight for it?  (Applause.)  
  
     And when we fight —  
  
     AUDIENCE:  We win!  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — we win.  
  
     God bless you.  And God bless the United States of America.  God
bless you.  (Applause.)  
  
                        END                8:32 P.M. CDT

\# \# \#
