---
date: '2024-08-11'
modified_time: 2024-08-12 12:41:48-04:00
published_time: 2024-08-11 13:37:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/08/11/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-a-political-event-in-san-francisco-ca/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at a Political Event in San Francisco,\_\
  CA"
---
 
Fairmont San Francisco

San Francisco, California

12:26 P.M. PDT

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Can we hear it for Nancy Pelosi?  (Applause.)

Good afternoon, everyone.  Good afternoon.  (Applause.)  Oh, it is good
to be home.  (Applause.)  Good afternoon, everyone.  Please have a
seat.  Please have a seat. 

Speaker Emerita Nancy Pelosi, I want to thank you.  You know, there is
so much about the future of our country that has relied on leaders like
Nancy Pelosi who have the grit, the determination, the brilliance to
know what is possible and then to make it so. 

And of the many, many accomplishments under your leadership, Nancy — you
mentioned the Affordable Care Act.  It is extraordinary what you have
done, and I have had the good privilege to be able to see your work up
close.  I thank you for your friendship and your support.  Thank you. 
Thank you.  Thank you.  (Applause.)

And I thank all our event chairs and hosts and all of the incredible
leaders — elected leaders who are also here, including Governor Gavin
Newsom.  Where are you, Gavin?  (Applause.)  I know he’s here because he
was in the photo line.  There he is.  Is he back there?  There you are,
Gavin. 

I’m going to talk about you for a second, friend.  (Laughter.)  I’m just
going off script.  (Laughter.)  Gavin and I were elected on the same day
here in San Francisco — he as mayor and me as district attorney.  We
took our oaths — do you remember this, Gavin? — January 8th, 2004.  And
— (laughter) — yes, it may age us, but it’s okay.  (Laughter.) 

And I have known Gavin as a friend and as a colleague for so, so many
years.  And I want to thank you in front of all the friends who are here
for being an extraordinary leader for California and a national leader
and a dear friend.  (Applause.)  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you. 
(Applause.)

Yeah, see?  That’s what you get for standing in the back of the room. 
(Laughter.)

And, Mayor London Breed, thank you for all that you are happy birthday. 
(Laughs.)  (Applause.) 

I want to thank Congresswoman Barbara Lee — (applause) — from the place
of my birth, Oakland, California.  (Laughs.)  (Applause.)

Jared Huffman — (applause) — a leader on so many issues, a long-standing
friend, and one of my great advisers over my career on all matters,
including that of climate.  Thank you, Jared.

And I want to congratulate our soon-to-be congressmember, Lateefah
Simon.  (Applause.)  I first worked with Latifah when she was a teenager
organizing young women about their empowerment.  And you will be an
extraordinary member of the United States Congress, Lateefah. 
(Applause.)

So, this is a room full of dear, dear, dear friends and long-standing
supporters, folks I — who I’ve known for — for just my entire career and
before.  So many of you have been on this journey with me through all
these years, during some good races, some tough races. 

I was talking with Paul Pelosi backstage, and we were remembering that
AGs race.  You remember that?  Remember election night in the AGs race? 
Some of you may not know, my opponent declared his victory that night. 
(Laughter.) 

So, we’ve been through a lot together.  We’ve been through a lot
together.  And I want to thank everyone here for your love and your
long-standing support and friendship and for your dedication to our
country — for your dedication to our country. 

So, I will start, then, with this: We will win this election. 
(Applause.)  We will.  We will win this election.  Yes, we will.  We
will win this election.

And — and we do not have a day to waste.  November 5th is in 86 days. 

But here’s the map in terms of the timeline.  Early voting starts even
sooner.  In Arizona, early voting starts in 60 days.  In Michigan,
mail-in voting starts in 47 days.  In North Carolina, absentee ballots
will be sent in just 27 days. 

Okay?  Okay.  You get my point here.  (Laughter.)

So, in that time, we know what we need to do.  We need to knock on
doors, we need to register folks to vote, and we need to get people to
the polls.  And every day matters. 

And we have — and we have some hard work ahead of us.  But I know who’s
here.  We like hard work.  Hard

work is good work.  (Applause.)  Hard work is good work, and together,
in November, that’s why we’re going to win. 

But let’s not take anything for granted.  I know there’s a lot of
enthusiasm out there.  And, you know, I’ve never been one to really
believe in the polls, whether they’re up or they’re down.  What we know
is the stakes are so high and we can take nothing for granted in this
critical moment. 

So, we will fuel our campaign, as we have, with enthusiasm and optimism
but also with a deep commitment to the hard work it’s going to take. 

And this campaign, that being said, is really about the fact that, you
know, there are, I think, two different — very — visions for our nation
that are being presented in this campaign: one focused — ours — on the
future and the other that’s so clearly focused on the past. 

And we are the ones who are obviously fighting for the future.  We
believe, for example, in a future with affordable health care, with
affordable childcare and paid leave; a future, we believe, where we can
continue to build a broad-based economy where every American has
opportunity. 

There’s so much about that word and that concept that I care deeply
about: opportunity.  Tapping into the ambitions of the people, the
excellence of the people, the aspirations of the people, the dreams of
the people, and then allowing them the ability to actually achieve what
we know is possible. 

The opportunity that so many rightly have and deserve to be able to own
a home; to start a business; to build wealth, intergenerational wealth —
these are the things that we believe in as we think about the future
that we must facilitate. 

We believe in a future where we lower the cost of living for America’s
families so that they have a chance not only to get by but — but, more
importantly, to get ahead. 

And all of this is to say, unlike Donald Trump, I promise I will put
middle-class families and working-class families first, knowing that the
middle class is a big part of how we built the United States of America
and that when the middle class is strong, our whole nation is strong —
our whole nation is strong.  (Applause.)

And what we know is while we are focused on the future with optimism and
with a sense of, yes, ambition about what is possible, Donald Trump has
a different plan.  Just look at his Project 2025 agenda. 

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  You know, Nancy, I just joke sometimes.  Can you
believe that they actually put that thing in writing?  (Laughter.)  I
mean, they had the gall to put — like, get it bound — like, typed up and
bound and then they distributed it, right? 

Project 2025, when you read it, I mean, it’s — it’s just — it’s — it’s
something, right?  (Laughter.)  I mean, it’s — it — and among the many
things — as I talk about, for example, the economy and building a middle
class, it’s clear in their agenda that part of that Project 2025 agenda
is to weaken the middle class. 

You know, if he is elected, Donald Trump intends to cut Social Security
and Medicare.  So many people, so many seniors in our country, it’s all
they have to rely on to survive. 

He intends to surrender, Jared, our fight against the climate crisis and
end, Nancy, the Affordable Care Act.  If there’s one person elected in
the United States who was pushing and pushing and fought to get that
through, it’s Nancy Pelosi.  (Applause.)  And their agenda on — on the
Affordable Care Act in terms of getting rid of it, we all remember what
that was. 

Remember the issue with people with preexisting conditions being
denied?  Remember the — the ability of insurance companies to deny
people with preexisting conditions, people — for example, children who
had asthma, breast cancer survivors, grandparents with diabetes?

You know, there’s so much about what they’re proposing that really is
based on proven failed policies — proven failed policies.  (Applause.) 

And so, I say to this group of friends, as I say everywhere, here’s one
of the things I know: We are not going back.  (Applause.)  We are not
going back.  We are not going back. 

And so, over the past six days — I mean, it’s so wonderful to see
everybody here, but I’ll tell you, over the past six days — so, I have
traveled — in the last six days, I’ve been in Pennsylvania, Wisconsin,
Michigan, Arizona, Nevada, and now here in California.  (Applause.)  And
Tim Walz and I did a tour, and it was really so enjoyable and so
important to do. 

And I can tell you, then, notes from the field: Americans in all parts
of our country, they don’t want to go back.  In fact, sometimes they
start chanting — even before I say it — (laughter) — “We’re not going
back.”  They — they’ll — I me- — and — and they — and you can do it now
if you want.  (Laughter.)  But — (laughs).

AUDIENCE:  We’re not going back!  We’re not going back!  We’re not going
back!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Right.  And — and I’ll tell you, in those states
and stadiums around our country, this is what people are saying so
forcefully, like you just have.  There’s a real — it’s — it’s a —
there’s a real, I think, thing happening in our country where we know
what has not worked and we believe in what can work and where we can go
based on also what we’ve proven does work, like the Affordable Care
Act. 

So, ours is a fight for the future, and it is a fight for freedom. 
Across our nation — and I have been traveling our nation for the last
three and a half — almost four years now as vice president — and I’m
very clear that there is an agenda that we are witnessing is a — and it
is about a full-on assault on hard-fought, hard-won freedoms and
rights.  There is an agenda afoot. 

And that agenda includes an attack on things like the freedom to vote. 
Many examples of that, including Georgia, you know, where they passed a
law that makes it illegal to give people food and water for standing in
line to vote. 

You know, the hypocrisy abounds, right?  I mean, what happened to “love
thy neighbor”? 

Attacks on the freedom to be safe from gun violence.  I have met with
the survivors and the families from Sandy Hook to Parkland.  The number
of our young people — you know, last fall, I started a tour with — of
colleges and — and college-age young people.  So, I was at college and
university; I also did trade schools. 

And, by the way, I love Gen Z.  I just love Gen Z.  I — I know it may be
complicated if you have Gen Z in your family, but I think they’re
terrific.  (Applause.)  I think they’re terrific. 

And, you know, when I was doing this tour, I would add — and every time
— and this is another reason for optimism.  This was last fall — these
college students, because, you know, they had to go through the mags and
all that stuff, they had to stand in line for a while.  And they stood
in line for hours and packed every auditorium that I was in to the point
that there was overflow room. 

These young people who — you know, it’s not a rock concert.  They were
coming to see me, you know, in a suit on a stage talking.  (Laughter.) 

And one of the things — in every place that I went, I would ask these
young leaders, “Raise your hand if at any point between kindergarten and
12th grade you had to endure an active shooter drill.”  It was
bone-chilling.  Almost every hand went up.

You know, we — I’m going to speak for most of us.  The — the — the worst
that we had is fire drills.  Right?  So, this issue of — of the freedom
to be safe from gun violence is very real. 

And, by the way, when Gen Z starts voting in their numbers, a whole lot
of this is going to have an absolute sea change in terms of leadership —
(applause) — absolute sea change. 

But, again, witnessing a full-on assault on hard-won freedoms and rights
— the freedom to breathe clean air and drink clean water.  (Applause.) 
You know, you see the guy on the other side still calling it a hoax —
right? — the climate crisis.  An attack on the freedom to love who you
love openly and with pride.  (Applause.) 

But — so, we remember, those of us here from this place in the world,
Gavin and I and a few of us were the first electeds in the country —
Valentine’s weekend, 2004 — (applause) — to perform same-sex marriages. 
Right? 

So, we just celebrated the 20th anniversary of that this past February. 
Right?  Here’s what pains me.  Here’s what pains me.  When you look at a
large state like Florida that passes a “Don’t Say Gay” law — and think
about what that means.  Some young teachers in their 20s are afraid to
put up a photograph of themselves and their partner for fear they could
lose their job.  Their job being what?  God’s work of educating other
people’s children. 

Think about what is happening in our country.  Twenty years later — we
just celebrated, and this is happening — full-on assault on hard-won
freedoms and rights, not to mention the attack on the most fundamental
freedom that should exist, which is the freedom to make decisions about
your own body and not have your government tell you what to do,
attacking the right of a woman to make decisions about her own body
instead of having her government tell her what to do.  (Applause.)

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  We’re not going back!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  We’re not going back.  But we know what we’re
dealing with.  We know what we’re dealing with.  And we know, in large
part, especially on that last point, how we got here.  Donald Trump,
when he was president, handpicked three members of the United States
Supreme Court, some of whom I asked questions to — (laughter and
applause) — had a direct conversation with.

He hand-selected three members of the United States Supreme Court with
the intent that they would undo the protections of Roe v. Wade, and they
did as he intended.  And now, in state after state, laws have been
proposed and passed to punish women, to criminalize doctors. 

You know, in Texas that law provides prison for life.  Understand what’s
happening in our country: laws with no exception, even for rape or
incest. 

As many of you know, I started my career as a prosecutor.  What some of
you may not know is why.  One of the reasons is that when I was in high
school, I learned that one of my best friends was being molested by her
stepfather.  And when I learned, I said, “You have to come live with
us.”  And I called my mother, many of whom — you met over the years —
and she said, “Yeah, she has to come stay with us.”  And she did.

So, the idea that supposed leaders would be passing a law to say to a
survivor of a crime violation to their body that that survivor has no
right to make a decision about what happens to her body next, that’s
immoral.  That’s immoral.  (Applause.)

And the reality is that if Donald Trump were to win this election, he
would sign a national abortion ban.  And if a national abortion ban is
in play, California and many other states that have protected the right
will not be immune. 

So, the stakes are very high.  But on this issue, I’ll tell you,
traveling around our country from red states to blue states, when this
issue has been on the ballot, the American people have voted for
freedom.  (Applause.)  The American people have voted for freedom. 

And I think because they, like us, we trust women.  (Applause.)  We
trust women to know what is in their own best interest and not have
their government tell them what to do. 

And needless to say, when I am elected president of the United States —
(applause) — and Congress passes a law putting back in place the
protections of Roe v. Wade, I will sign it into law.  (Applause.)

So, we have a lot of work to do.  I see Rob Bonta here.  I — we have a
lot of work to do through the law, through the courts, through our feet
and our vote.  And generations of Americans before us have led the fight
for freedom, and now the baton is in our hands.  Now the baton is in our
hands. 

And each and every one of us, as I know we know, has the responsibility
and the ability to determine the outcome of this election and the future
of our country.  And it is we who believe in the sacred freedom to vote
that, together, through this election, we’ll get on path to being able
to pass the John Lewis Voting Rights Act and the Freedom to Vote Act. 
(Applause.)

It is we who believe in freedom who will ensure that we are able to pass
an assault weapons ban and universal background checks and red flag
laws.  (Applause.) 

And so, I say those things as just a couple of examples of how much is
on the line in this election.  And understand this is not 2016 or 2020
for so many reasons, but one of the most important reasons that should
be front of mind for all of us as a point of distinction is what the
Supreme Court just did last month. 

So, the Supreme Court — the United States Supreme Court, last month,
basically just told the former president, who has been convicted of
fraud, that going forth, he will effectively be immune no matter what he
does in the White House. 

So, whereas before, at least there was a threat of some sort of
consequence, which hopefully would persuade some sense of accountability
— well, not even then, but now, with the Supreme Court’s ruling,
understand what that means.  Think about it. 

Put that Supreme Court ruling in the context of an individual who has
openly told us — Donald Trump — that he will be a dictator on day one. 
Think about it in the context of that individual who has basically said
he intends to weaponize the Department of Justice against his political
enemies.  Think about it in the context of that individual who even
called for — and I’m going to quote — “terminating” the Constitution of
the United States of America.  Think about that. 

And here’s the thing that I know we know — and all over our country when
I travel and say this, everyone is really clear.  Someone who suggests
that we should terminate the Constitution of the United States of
America should never again stand behind the seal of president of the
United States.  (Applause.)  Never again.  Never again stand behind the
seal of the president of the United States.  (Applause.)  Never again. 
Never again.  (Applause.) 

So, we are here — we are here because we love our country.  We love our
country.  And I do believe it is the highest form of patriotism to fight
for the ideals of our country.  We then fight for the promise of
America: a promise of freedom, opportunity, and justice not for some but
for all. 

And ultimately, then, in this election, we each face a question.  What
kind of country do we want to live in: a country of chaos, fear, and
hate or a country of freedom, compassion, and rule of law?  (Applause.) 

And the beauty — the beauty of our democracy — the beauty of our
democracy is that we each have the power to answer that question.  We
each have the power to answer that question, because in a democracy, the
power is with the people.  The power is with the people.  (Applause.) 

And the people are ready to use that power.  I’m seeing it around our
country.  The people are ready to use their power. 

Over the past week, Tim Walz and I have been on a battleground swing
across our nation, as I mentioned.  And let me just share with you some
final — I don’t (inaudible) — notes from the field.  (Laughter.)  First,
the energy is undeniable.  It is undeniable.  (Applause.)

I mean, people of every walk and stripe and size and — you know, coming
together.  There’s so much about — I think we know what strengthens our
nation when people see in the face of a stranger, a neighbor — you know
what I mean?  You don’t see a stranger.  You — you — you approach it —
that is a neighbor.  We’re building community. 

And, you know, the press and our opponents like to focus on the crowd
size.  And — and, yes, the crowds are large.  (Laughter and applause.) 
But even better is the fact that, like last night in Las Vegas,
attendees are signing up for volunteer shifts by the thousands. 
(Applause.) 

And here’s what else I see.  I think what we know is that folks are
coming to these events, and they’re bringing with them so much joy.  And
they are — you know, li- — you know, we had — we had D-Nice there
yesterday DJing.  It was kind of nice too, right?  (Laughter.)  So, you
know, people are singing and they’re dancing in the aisles long before
we get there. 

And I do know that they’re showing up not only because we must beat
Donald Trump.  They’re showing up because they believe in our country
and our future and a brighter future for our nation.  (Applause.)  And I
think they know, as we all here do, this is a moment where we have a
real opportunity to see a future in which we all belong — in which we
all belong. 

And I guess that’s just — all of that is the very humbling part of
this.  It’s really been a good couple of weeks, but we got a lot of work
to do.  (Applause.)  We got a lot of work to do. 

So, 86 days to go.  And in the next 86 days, yes, we will fight for
freedom, and we will fight for our future.  And as I say at every rally:
When we fight —

AUDIENCE:  We win!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — we win.  (Applause.)

God bless you.  And God bless America.  (Applause.) 

END                12:56 P.M. PDT
