---
date: '2024-08-22'
modified_time: 2024-08-23 12:05:55-04:00
published_time: 2024-08-22 23:59:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/08/22/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-during-keynote-address-at-the-democratic-nation-convention/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris During Keynote Address at the Democratic\
  \ Nation\_Convention"
---
 
*United Center  
Chicago, Illinois*

9:33 P.M. CDT  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Good evening!  (Laughs.)  (Applause.)  
  
     AUDIENCE:  Kamala!  Kamala!  Kamala!  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  California.  (Laughs.)  (Applause.)  
  
Good evening, everyone.  Good evening.  (Laughs.)  (Applause.)  Good
evening.  (Laughs.)  (Applause.)  
  
Oh, my goodness.  (Applause.)  
  
Good evening, everyone.  Good evening.  Go- — (laughs).  (Applause.) 
Good evening.  Thank you.  (Applause.)  
  
Thank you.  Thank you.  (Applause.)  
  
AUDIENCE:  Kamala!  Kamala!  Kamala!  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Good evening.  (Applause.)  
  
Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank — thank you.  (Applause.)  Thank you. 
Thank you, everyone.  Thank you.  (Applause.)  Thank you.  Thank you. 
(Applause.)  
  
     AUDIENCE:  USA!  USA!  USA!  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you all.   
  
     AUDIENCE:  USA!  USA!  USA!  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you all.  (Applause.)  
  
Okay, we’ve got to get to some business.  We’ve got to get to some
business.  
  
     Okay.  Thank you all.  (Applause.)  Okay.  (Laughs.)  Thank you,
thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you.  (Applause.)  Thank you,
thank you.  Please.  Thank you.  (Applause.)  
  
     Please.  Thank you so very much.  Thank you, everyone.  Thank you,
everyone.  Thank you.  (Applause.)  
  
     Okay, let’s get to business.  Let’s get to business.  All right. 
(Laughs.)  (Applause.)  
  
So, let me start by thanking my most incredible husband, Doug —
(applause) — for being an incredible partner to me, an incredible father
to Cole and Ella.  And happy anniversary, Dougie.  (Laughs.) 
(Applause.)  I love you so very much.  
  
To our president, Joe Biden — (applause) — when I think about the path
that we have traveled together, Joe, I am filled with gratitude.  Your
record is extraordinary, as history will show, and your character is
inspiring.  And Doug and I love you and Jill and are forever thankful to
you both.  (Applause.)  
  
And to Coach Tim Walz — (applause) — you are going to be an incredible
vice president.   (Applause.)   
  
And to the delegates and everyone who has put your faith in our
campaign, your support is humbling.   
  
So, America, the path that led me here in recent weeks was no doubt
unexpected, but I’m no stranger to unlikely journeys.  
  
So, my mother, our mother, Shyamala Harris, had one of her own.  And I
miss her every day and especially right now.  And I know she’s looking
down smiling.  (Applause.)  I know that.  
  
So, my mother was 19 when she crossed the world alone, traveling from
India to California with an unshakable dream to be the scientist who
would cure breast cancer.  (Applause.)   
  
When she finished school, she was supposed to return home to a
traditional arranged marriage, but as fate would have it, she met my
father, Donald Harris, a student from Jamaica.  (Applause.)  They — they
fell in love and got married, and that act of self-determination made my
sister Maya and me.  (Applause.)  
  
Growing up, we moved a lot.  I will always remember that big Mayflower
truck packed with all our belongings, ready to go to Illinois; to
Wisconsin — (applause); and wherever our parents’ jobs took us.   
  
My early memories of our parents together are very joyful ones: a home
filled with laughter and music — Aretha, Coltrane, and Miles.  At the
park, my mother would say, “Stay close.”  But my father would say, as he
smiled, “Run, Kamala, run.  Don’t be afraid.  Don’t let anything stop
you.”  (Applause.)  From my earliest years, he taught me to be
fearless.  
  
But the harmony between my parents did not last.  When I was in
elementary school, they split up, and it was mostly my mother who raised
us.   
  
Before she could finally afford to buy a home, she rented a small
apartment in the East Bay.  In the bay — (applause) — in the Bay, you
either live in the Hills or the Flatlands.  We lived in the Flats, a
beautiful working-class neighborhood of firefighters, nurses, and
construction workers — (applause) — all who tended their lawns with
pride.   
  
My mother, she worked long hours.  And like many working parents, she
leaned on a trusted circle to help raise us: Mrs.  Shelton, who ran the
daycare below us and became a second mother; Uncle Sherman; Aunt Mary;
Uncle Freddy; Auntie Kris.  None of them family by blood and all of them
family by love.  (Applause.)   
  
Family who taught us how to make gumbo, how to play chess — and
sometimes even let us win.  Family who loved us, believed in us, and
told us we could be anything and do anything.  (Applause.)  
  
They instilled in us the values they personified: community, faith, and
the importance of treating others as you would want to be treated — with
kindness, respect, and compassion.  (Applause.)  
  
My mother was a brilliant, five-foot-tall brown woman with an accent. 
(Applause.)  And as the eldest child — as the eldest child, I saw how
the world would sometimes treat her.  But my mother never lost her
cool.  She was tough, courageous, a trailblazer in the fight for women’s
health.  And she taught Maya and me a lesson that Michelle mentioned the
other night.  She taught us to never complain about injustice, but do
something about it.  Do something about it.  (Applause.)  That was my
mother.   
  
And she taught us — and she always — she also taught us — and she also
taught us “and never do anything half-assed.”  (Applause.)  And that is
a direct quote — (laughs) — a direct quote.  
  
I grew up immersed in the ideals of the Civil Rights Movement.  My
parents had met at a civil rights gathering.  And they made sure that we
learned about civil rights leaders, including the lawyers, like Thurgood
Marshall and C- — Constance Baker Motley — those who battled in the
courtroom to make real the promise of America.   
  
So, at a young age, I decided I wanted to do that work.  I wanted to be
a lawyer.  And when it came time to choose the type of law I would
pursue, I reflected on a pivotal moment in my life.   
  
You see, when I was in high school, I started to notice something about
my best friend, Wanda.  She was sad at school, and there were times she
didn’t want to go home.   
  
So, one day, I asked if everything was all right, and she confided in me
that she was being sexually abused by her stepfather.  And I immediately
told her she had to come stay with us, and she did.  (Applause.)   
  
This is one of the reasons I became a prosecutor — to protect people
like Wanda — because I believe everyone has a right to safety, to
dignity, and to justice.  (Applause.)  
  
As a prosecutor, when I had a case, I charged it not in the name of the
victim but in the name of the people for a simple reason: In our system
of justice, a harm against any one of us is a harm against all of us. 
(Applause.)  
  
And I would often explain this to console survivors of crime, to remind
them no one should be made to fight alone.  We are all in this
together.  (Applause.)   
  
And every day in the courtroom, I stood proudly before a judge and I
said five words: “Kamala Harris, for the people.”  (Applause.)   
  
And to be clear — and to be clear, my entire career, I’ve only had one
client: the people.  (Applause.)   
  
And so, on behalf of the people; on behalf of every American, regardless
of party, race, gender, or the language your grandmother speaks; on
behalf of my mother and everyone who has ever set out on their own
unlikely journey; on behalf of Americans like the people I grew up with
— people who work hard, chase their dreams, and look out for one
another; on behalf of everyone whose story could only be written in the
greatest nation on Earth, I accept your nomination to be president of
the United States of America.  (Applause.)

     And with this election — and — (laughs) — and with this election,
our nation — our nation, with this election, has a precious, fleeting
opportunity to move past the bitterness, cynicism, and divisive battles
of the past; a chance to chart a new way forward — (applause) — not —
not as members of any one party or faction but as Americans. 
(Applause.)

     And let me say, I know there are people of various political views
watching tonight, and I want you to know I promise to be a president for
all Americans.  (Applause.)  You can always trust me to put country
above party and self; to hold sacred America’s fundamental principles,
from the rule of law to free and fair elections to the peaceful transfer
of power.  (Applause.)  
     I will be a president who unites us around our highest
aspirations.  A president who leads and listens; who is realistic,
practical, and has common sense; and always fights for the American
people.  (Applause.)

     From the courthouse to the White House, that has been my life’s
work.  (Applause.)

     As a young courtroom prosecutor in Oakland, California — (applause)
— I stood up for women and children against predators who abused them. 

     As attorney general of California, I took on the big banks —
(applause) — delivered $20 billion for middle-class families who faced
foreclosure and helped pass a homeowner bill of rights, one of the first
of its kind in the nation.  (Applause.)  
     I stood up for veterans and students being scammed by big
for-profit colleges — (applause) — for workers who were being cheated
out of their wages, the wages they were due — (applause) — for seniors
facing elder abuse. 

     I fought against the cartels who traffic in guns and drugs and
human beings — (applause) — who threaten the security of our border and
the safety of our communities. 

     And I will tell you, these fights were not easy and neither were
the elections that put me in those offices. 

     We were underestimated at practically every turn,  
but we never gave up, because the future is always worth fighting for. 
(Applause.)  And that’s the fight we are in right now: a fight for
America’s future.  (Applause.)

     Fellow Americans, this election is not only the most important of
our lives, it is one of the most important in the life of our nation. 
(Applause.)

     In many ways, Donald Trump is an unserious man.  (Laughter.)  But
the consequences — but the consequences of putting Donald Trump back in
the White House are extremely serious.  (Applause.)

     Consider — consider not only the chaos and calamity when he was in
office but also the gravity of what has happened since he lost the last
election.  
     Donald Trump tried to throw away your votes.  When he failed, he
sent an armed mob to the United States Capitol, where they assaulted law
enforcement officers.   
  
     When politicians in his own party begged him to call off the mob
and send help, he did the opposite.  He fanned the flames.   
  
     And now, for an entirely different set of crimes, he was found
guilty of fraud by a jury of everyday Americans — (applause) — and
separately — and separately found liable for committing sexual abuse.

     And consider — consider what he intends to do if we give him power
again.  Consider his explicit intent to set free violent extremists who
assaulted those law enforcement officers at the Capitol; his explicit
intent to jail journalists, political opponents, and anyone he sees as
the enemy; his explicit intent to deploy our active-duty military
against our own citizens. 

     AUDIENCE:  Booo —

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Consider — consider the power he will have,
especially after the United States Supreme Court just ruled that he
would be immune from criminal prosecution.

     AUDIENCE:  Booo —

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Just imagine Donald Trump with no guardrails.

     AUDIENCE:  Booo —

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And how he would use the immense powers of the
presidency of the United States not to improve your life, not to
strengthen our national security, but to serve the only client he has
ever had: himself.  (Applause.)

     And we know — and we know what a second Trump term would look
like.  It’s all laid out in Project 2025, written by his closest
advisers.  And its sum total is to pull our country back to the past. 
But, America —

     AUDIENCE:  We are not going back!

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — we are not going back.  (Applause.)   
     We are not going back.  We are not going back.  
  
     AUDIENCE:  We’re not going back!  We’re not going back!  We’re not
going back!

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  We are not going back to when Donald Trump
tried to cut Social Security and Medicare. 

     We are not going back to when he tried to get rid of the Affordable
Care Act, when insurance companies could deny people with preexisting
conditions. 

     We are not going to let him eliminate the Department of Education
that funds our public schools.  (Applause.)

     We are not going to let him end programs like Head Start that
provide preschool and childcare for our children.  (Applause.)

     America, we are not going back.

     AUDIENCE:  We’re not going back!  We’re not going back!  We’re not
going back!

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And we are charting — and we are charting a
new way forward — (applause) — forward to a future with a strong and
growing middle class, because we know a strong middle class has always
been critical to America’s success.  And building that middle class will
be a defining goal of my presidency.  (Applause.)

     And I’ll tell you, this is personal for me.  The middle class is
where I come from.  My mother kept a strict budget.  We lived within our
means, yet we wanted for little.  And she expected us to make the most
of the opportunities that were available to us and to be grateful for
them, because, as she taught us, opportunity is not available to
everyone. 

     That’s why we will create what I call an opportunity economy — an
opportunity economy where everyone has the chance to compete and a
chance to succeed — (applause) — whether you live in a rural area, small
town, or big city.

     And as president, I will bring together labor and workers —
(applause) — and small-business owners and entrepreneurs and American
companies to create jobs, to grow our economy, and to lower the cost of
everyday needs like health care and housing and groceries. 

     We will provide access to capital for small-business owners and
entrepreneurs and founders.  (Applause.)  And we will end America’s
housing shortage — (applause) — and protect Social Security and
Medicare.  (Applause.)

     Now compare that to Donald Trump, because I think everyone here
knows he doesn’t actually fight for the middle class.  Not — he doesn’t
actually fight for the middle class.  Instead, he fights for himself and
his billionaire friends.  And he will give them another round of tax
breaks that will add —  
  
     AUDIENCE:  Booo —

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — up to $5 trillion to the national debt.

     AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And all the while, he intends to enact what in
effect is a national sales tax — call it a “Trump tax” — that would
raise prices on middle-class families by almost $4,000 a year.  
  
     AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Well, instead of a Trump tax hike, we will
pass a middle-class tax cut that will benefit more than 100 million
Americans.  (Applause.)

     Friends, I believe America cannot truly be prosperous unless
Americans are fully able to make their own decisions about their own
lives, especially on matters of heart and home.  (Applause.)  But
tonight, in America, too many women are not able to make those
decisions.   
  
     And let’s be clear about how we got here.  Donald Trump handpicked
members of the United States Supreme Court to take away reproductive
freedom.

     AUDIENCE:  Booo —

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And now he brags about it.  In his words,
quote, “I did it, and I’m proud to have done it.”  End quote.

     AUDIENCE:  Booo —

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Well, I’ll tell you, over the past two years,
I’ve traveled across our country, and women have told me their stories. 
Husbands and fathers have shared theirs.

     Stories of women miscarrying in a parking lot, developing sepsis,
losing the ability to ever again have children, all because doctors are
afraid they may go to jail for caring for their patients.  Couples just
trying to grow their family, cut off in the middle of IVF treatments. 
Children who have survived sexual assault potentially being forced to
carry a pregnancy to term.   
  
     This is what’s happening in our country because of Donald Trump. 
And understand, he is not done.  As a part of his agenda, he and his
allies would limit access to birth control, ban medication abortion, and
enact a nationwide abortion ban, with or without Congress.  
  
     AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
  
     And get this.  Get this.  He plans to create a national
anti-abortion coordinator and force states to report on women’s
miscarriages and abortions.   
  
     AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Simply put, they are out of their minds. 
(Applause.)  
  
     And one must ask — one must ask: Why exactly is it that they don’t
trust women?  Well, we trust women.  We trust women.  (Applause.)  
  
     And when Congress passes a bill to restore reproductive freedom, as
president of the United States, I will proudly sign it into law. 
(Applause.)  
  
     In this election, many other fundamental freedoms are at stake: the
freedom to live safe from gun violence in our schools, communities, and
places of worship; the freedom to love who you love openly and with
pride — (applause); the freedom to breathe clean air and drink clean
water and live free from the pollution that fuels the climate crisis —
(applause); and the freedom that unlocks all the others, the freedom to
vote.  (Applause.)  
  
     With this election, we finally have the opportunity to pass the
John Lewis Voting Rights Act and the Freedom to Vote Act.  (Applause.)  
  
     And let me be clear.  And let me be clear.  After decades in law
enforcement, I know the importance of safety and security, especially at
our border.   
  
     Last year, Joe and I brought together Democrats and conservative
Republicans to write the strongest border bill in decades.  The Border
Patrol endorsed it.  But Donald Trump believes a border deal would hurt
his campaign, so he ordered his allies in Congress to kill the deal.  
  
     AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Well, I refuse to play politics with our
security, and here is my pledge to you.  As president, I will bring back
the bipartisan border security bill that he killed, and I will sign it
into law.  (Applause.)  
  
     I know — I know we can live up to our proud heritage as a nation of
immigrants and reform our broken immigration system.  (Applause.)  
  
     We can create an earned pathway to citizenship and secure our
border.  (Applause.)  
  
     And, America, we must also be steadfast in advancing our security
and values abroad.   
  
     As vice president, I have confronted threats to our security,
negotiated with foreign leaders, strengthened our alliances, and engaged
with our brave troops overseas.  (Applause.)  
  
     As commander in chief, I will ensure America always has the
strongest, most lethal fighting force in the world.  (Applause.)  And I
will fulfill our sacred obligation to care for our troops and their
families, and I will always honor and never disparage their service and
their sacrifice.  (Applause.)  
  
     AUDIENCE:  USA!  USA!  USA!  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  I will make sure that we lead the world into
the future on space and artificial intelligence; that America, not
China, wins the competition for the 21st century; and that we
strengthen, not abdicate, our global leadership.   
  
     Trump, on the other hand, threatened to abandon NATO.  He
encouraged Putin to invade our allies.  Said Russia could, quote, “do
whatever the hell they want.”  
  
     AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Five days before Russia attacked Ukraine, I
met with President Zelenskyy to warn him about Russia’s plan to invade. 
I helped mobilize a global response — over 50 countries — to defend
against Putin’s aggression.  (Applause.)  And as president, I will stand
strong with Ukraine and our NATO Allies.  (Applause.)  
  
     With respect to the war in Gaza, President Biden and I are working
around the clock, because now is the time to get a hostage deal and a
ceasefire deal done.  (Applause.)  
  
     And let me be clear.  And let me be clear.  I will always stand up
for Israel’s right to defend itself — (applause) — and I will always
ensure Israel has the ability to defend itself, because the people of
Israel must never again face the horror that a terrorist organization
called Hamas caused on October 7 — (applause) — including unspeakable
sexual violence and the massacre of young people at a music festival.  
  
     At the same time, what has happened in Gaza over the past 10 months
is devastating.  So many innocent lives lost.  (Applause.)  Desperate,
hungry people fleeing for safety, over and over again.  The scale of
suffering is heartbreaking.  
  
     President Biden and I are working to end this war, such that Israel
is secure, the hostages are released, the suffering in Gaza ends, and
the Palestinian people can realize their right to dignity, security,
freedom, and self-determination.  (Applause.)  
  
     And know this: I will never hesitate to take whatever action is
necessary to defend our forces and our interests against Iran and
Iran-backed terrorists.  I will not cozy up to tyrants and dictators
like Kim Jong Un, who are rooting for Trump — who are rooting for
Trump.  (Applause.)  
  
     Because, you know, they know — they know he is easy to manipulate
with flattery and favors.  They know Trump won’t hold autocrats
accountable because he wants to be an autocrat himself.  (Applause.)  
  
     And as president, I will never waver in defense of America’s
security and ideals, because in the enduring struggle between democracy
and tyranny, I know where I stand and I know where the United States
belongs.  (Applause.)  
  
     AUDIENCE:  USA!  USA!  USA!  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So, fellow Americans — fellow Americans, I — I
love our country with all my heart.  (Applause.)   
  
     Everywhere I go — everywhere I go, in everyone I meet, I see a
nation that is ready to move forward, ready for the next step in the
incredible journey that is America.  
  
     I see an America where we hold fast to the fearless belief that
built our nation and inspired the world — that here, in this country,
anything is possible; that nothing is out of reach.  An America where we
care for one another, look out for one another, and recognize that we
have so much more in common than what separates us.  (Applause.)  That
none of us — none of us has to fail for all of us to succeed. 
(Applause.)  And that in unity, there is strength.   
  
     You know, our opponents in this race are out there every day
denigrating America, talking about how terrible everything is.  Well, my
mother had another lesson she used to teach: Never let anyone tell you
who you are; you show them who you are.  (Applause.)  
  
     America, let us show each other and the world who we are and what
we stand for: freedom, opportunity, compassion, dignity, fairness, and
endless possibilities.  (Applause.)  
  
     We are the heirs to the greatest democracy in the history of the
world.  And on behalf of our children and our grandchildren and all
those who sacrificed so dearly for our freedom and liberty, we must be
worthy of this moment.  
  
     It is now our turn to do what generations before us have done,
guided by optimism and faith: to fight for this country we love, to
fight for the ideals we cherish, and to uphold the awesome
responsibility that comes with the greatest privilege on Earth — the
privilege and pride of being an American.  (Applause.)  
  
     So, let’s get out there, let’s fight for it.  Let’s get out there,
let’s vote for it.  And together, let us write the next great chapter in
the most extraordinary story ever told.  (Applause.)  
  
     Thank you.  God bless you.  And may God bless the United States of
America.  Thank you all.  (Applause.)  
  
                             END                10:10 P.M. CDT

\# \# \#
