---
date: '2024-08-18'
modified_time: 2024-08-19 13:09:52-04:00
published_time: 2024-08-18 23:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/08/18/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-and-governor-tim-walzafter-greeting-the-aliquippa-high-school-football-team/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris and Governor Tim WalzAfter Greeting the Aliquippa\
  \ High School Football\_Team"
---
 
*Aliquippa High School  
Aliquippa, Pennsylvania*

4:53 P.M. EDT  
  
     GOVERNOR WALZ:  First of all, Coach, thank you.  To each of you,
thanks.  I know we’re interrupting your practice.  The busy part and the
important part is out there on the field, but thank you for having us on
this.   
  
     MR. PATRICK:  Appreciate it.  Thank you for coming.  
  
GOVERNOR WALZ:  This is a — this is pretty sacred ground.  Folks in
Minnesota know about this place.  We know about this team.  We know the
people you produce — not just FN- — NFL players but — but men of a
character that come out of this program, because, as Doug said — I’m
privileged to be on this team — I’m the current governor of Minnesota,
but for 20 years, this was the time of year I looked forward to most.  I
was a defensive coordinator at Mankato West High School and coached
football and — and taught school.   
  
Public schools are the foundation of our country.  And I don’t have to
tell you, anybody who tells you that it’s just a game — this is more
than just a game.  This is about building character.  It’s about doing
something bigger than yourself.  It’s about trusting the person that’s
standing on each side of you, and, on Friday night, you know they’ll be
there.  And if you look around here, the moments that you’re living
right now, these guys will be around your whole life.  You’ll remember
them.  You’ll remember these plays.   
  
I can still remember every single call during that state — first state
championship, how it went.  It’s that important.  I’ve told people, and
they think I’m joking about it, it was harder to win that state football
championship than it was to become governor, so — (laughter) — it’s
tough work.  You got to count on a lot of things.  You got to do a lot
of things.   
  
And on our team, we ran a 4-4 defense.  (Addressing Jerome Bettis.)  I
wouldn’t have wanted to go against this guy, I can tell you that, but —
(laughter).  There’s no stopping that run.   
  
But the kids played hard and — and they understood that it was something
bigger than themselves.  And I’ll have to tell you, being out here with
— with Vice President Harris, I know it’d be easy — especially now, our
politics has been pretty ugly.  Our politics has seemed pretty
negative.  Our politics is something that I know what I fear most is, is
that young people turn away from it rather than turning into it.   
  
Politics isn’t that much different than this.  It’s about something
bigger than themselves.  It’s about setting a future goal and trying to
reach it.  It’s about doing it with dignity and hard work.  It’s about
doing it with humility.  And when you lose, you walk across the field
and you shake hands with the other team and know they played hard too. 
But we’re all in it together to try and make it better.   
  
And things like investing in this public school and having — I can’t
imagine what this place looks like when it’s filled with folks and the
lights are on and the leaves are turning and that game is in the fourth
quarter and somebody has to make that play, somebody has to step up, and
you look to each side of you and you know, “I trust them.  I trust them
to make that play.”  
  
Our country’s not that different.  Our neighbors want to be with you. 
Our neighbors want to do what’s right.  And the more we figure out that
we’re in this thing together and we have more in common than we have
separated, we’re going to do a heck of a lot better.   
  
So, I have to tell you, thanks for taking some time.  Thanks for giving
us the privilege to stand on this field, because you earned the right to
be on this field.  You earn it with a lot of sweat.  You earn it with a
lot of time in the weight room.  You earn it with the folks who came
before you and know that they care how you conduct yourselves on this,
and we feel the same way.   
  
We have a responsibility to the American public to conduct ourselves
with dignity, conduct ourselves with a vision, and to conduct ourselves
and all of this — when football’s done right, it is just fun as heck to
play the game.  And that’s the way things can be.   
  
So, I have to tell you, I am just honored to be with this leader.  I’m
honored with someone who’s showing us that.  I’m honored with someone
who’s out doing politics with a smile on her face and with a sense of
that everybody matters.   
  
And we’re here in this space to say — it’s not just a cliché — our
future is with you, and we have a responsibility to deliver it to you in
good shape, to make sure that we’re doing the right things to give you a
good shot at the future.   
  
And so, for me, it’s a privilege to be on this team.  It’s a privilege
to see this leader do it with such joy.  And it’s a privilege for me to
get to introduce to you — and this is, like, some of the first times I’m
getting to do this — the next president of the United States, Kamala
Harris.  (Applause.)  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So, I’ve been reading about you all and hearing
about you and your excellence and how you work as a team.   
  
And we’ve got 79 days to go until the election, but we wanted to stop by
and I wanted to stop by so I could tell you all in person, looking at
each of you in your eyes, that our nation is counting on you and your
excellence.  We applaud your ambition.  You want to compete.  You want
to win.  And I will tell you that we, as a country, deserve to give you
every opportunity that you have to achieve your excellence that you were
born with, that is God-given, and that is going to be laying the path to
the future of our nation.   
  
You all are the future of our country.  And you all have known from the
day you were born, we’re all born leaders, and it’s just a matter of
when people decide to turn that on.   
  
The fact that you’re on this field today tells me you decided to turn it
on at an early stage of your life — to be a leader and to be a role
model.   
  
And, you know, it’s not easy being a role model.  Welcome to the role
model club — (laughter) — right? 

     Being a role model, Pete, means that members of your family, people
you know in the neighborhood, others, your classmates, they watch you to
see what you do.  What goes into that kind of excellence?  What goes
into being a winning team?  
  
And you all have taken it upon yourselves to take on that responsibility
of being role models and to inspire people you may not even know are
watching you to see how you can achieve success.  And by doing that and
all that that requires — which is the hard work; the practice; working
as a team; knowing that you will be undefeated, even if you don’t win
every game, but no circumstance or event or moment will defeat your
spirit and your fight and your preparedness to win and excel, that
nothing will dampen your spirit of excellence — that’s what I’m counting
on from each of you and that’s what makes our nation strong.  
  
So, you keep doing what you’re doing and know that there are so many
people you may not see at any one moment who are cheering you on.  When
they’re in the stands, when you’re in your classroom, when you are
living your life on a daily basis, know that we are applauding you in
everything that you are and do — on this field when you are playing and
off this field when you are just being the leaders that I know you
are.   
  
You wouldn’t be able to be such a successful team if you weren’t leaders
in every way.   
  
And the last point I’ll make is this.  One of the other things that we
really are counting on for your leadership is to remind folks that we
are a team, right?  Everybody has a li- — little bit that’s different
about them.  But within the vast majority of us who have seemingly
differences, the vast majority of us have so much more in common than
what separates us.  And you guys know that.  You know that in the way
you operate as one team.  
  
So, take that spirit with you in everything that you do.  I’m counting
on your leadership.  Our nation is counting on you guys.   
  
And go out and win some games.  And I’ll see you later. 
(Laughter.)       
  
Okay.  Thank you.  (Applause.)  
  
END                     5:01 P.M.

\# \# \#
