---
date: '2024-08-18'
modified_time: 2024-08-19 13:15:25-04:00
published_time: 2024-08-18 22:50:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/08/18/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-and-governor-tim-walz-at-a-campaign-event-in-rochester-pa/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris and Governor Tim Walz at a Campaign Event\
  \ in Rochester,\_PA"
---
 
*Beaver Field Office  
Rochester, Pennsylvania*

3:01 P.M. EDT  
  
     GOVERNOR WALZ:  Oh, man — (applause) — it is.  
  
     Doug gets the bro hugs.  He brings it, so — (laughter).  Well,
thank you, and it’s true.   
  
And — and to Gwen and Doug, both, I — all of you — none of us do this
alone.  We’re all in this together.   
  
I think this is a room that knows this campaign will be won in rooms
just like this all across the country.  (Applause.)   
  
It will be run with people sitting on the phone banks in there, dialing
numbers, and people picking up the phone on a Sunday and having somebody
say, “Do you have a minute to talk about the future of our country?” 
That’s a pretty big step to pick up that phone and talk.  But listening
to these folks in here, people are doing it.  They’re doing it.  
  
And the thing I can tell you what Kamala Harris has brought to this for
so many things — from experience as a prosecutor to an attorney general
to a United States senator to a vice president to the next President of
the United States — (applause) — th- — there’s that resume, which is out
— without question, but the reason they’re picking up the phone and the
reason that they’re standing thousand deep in 109 degree heat in Las
Vegas is: She’s bringing out the joy in the hearts of Americans.  She’s
bringing out — (applause) — she’s bringing out the kindness that ties us
together, the decency, the vision of a better tomorrow.  
  
And these — (applause) — each of these volunteers and the people who put
it on, they all said it.  They said it is so much better to be for for
something rather than against something — to be for the future, not
going back.  Those — (applause) –that’s what people know.  
  
And we — some of us who have less hair and are old enough — can remember
when you could go to Thanksgiving, watch a Steelers game with your
relatives, and not complain about politics the whole time, not be on
each other’s neck — (applause) — because you shared a commitment to
democracy, a commitment to personal freedoms, a commitment to public
education, a commitment to infrastructure.  (Applause.)  
  
We don’t call each other names.  We don’t do it.  And we don’t use the
least fortunate amongst us as punchlines for our jokes because they’re
our neighbors.  They’re our neighbors.  And so, you’re getting an
opportunity to see the best side of America.   
  
And for the young people here, they maybe haven’t seen a campaign like
this because of COVID, because of things that’s happening.  This is a
chance to bring out that joy, turn the page, and look to the future,
this idea of going forward, so — (applause).  
  
Doug — Doug is right.  He told you my kids were backstage in awe.  He
didn’t tell you they were probably in awe because they could not believe
that I got through that thing and through that speech — (laughter) —
that that was amazing to them.  But I’ll tell you what, they have felt
part of this family, because they can feel the decency radiating off
these people.  They can see the commitment.  They know that children
matter.  They know that family matters.  They know that individuals
matter.  
  
And this leader knows that it’s not any of government’s business to be
in your health care decisions.  Those are your decisions.  (Applause.)  
  
And this is a leader who celebrates love in all forms that it comes by —
(applause) — that we love each other.  
  
And for the young people, you hear somebody talking about this: We have
the right to send our children to school to be free from being shot dead
in their classrooms.  That’s what it is.  (Applause.)  
  
And this is a nation — can ensure clean water, clean air, and a bright
future for our children.  
  
So, I have to tell you, we’ve got 79 days.  And you’ll hear me say this
— Doug is going to correct me on this — I say, “That’s easy.  We can
sleep when we’re dead.”  He s- — (laughter) — Doug said we can sleep on
November 6th after this election is over, so he may be right. 
(Applause.)  
  
But, look, coming into football country and being an old football coach,
there’s an old saying, “You — you don’t hope you’re going to win.  You
prepare to win.  And you give it the best you’ve got.  And you know when
that game’s over, you want to know you left it all on the field.”   
  
And that’s all we’re asking.  Let’s leave it all on the field.  Let’s
get this thing done, because — (applause) — because when my grandkids
and your grandkids ask you about this — because on Nomber — November
6th, you were there: first time when you got to welcome madam president
of the United States, Kamala Harris.  (Applause.)  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Tim Walz!  (Applause.)  
  
Hey, everybody.  (Laughs.)  We’re back, and we’re going to keep coming
back and we’re going to keep coming back.  (Applause.)  
  
I want to thank — I want to thank everybody.   
  
I want to start with Tim Walz.  Isn’t he fantastic?  (Applause.)  I like
to call him Coach Walz, and, you know, he is — he’s done so much for our
country, and he’s going to make an extraordinary vice president of the
United States.  
  
Gwen, I mean, girl, just — you just killed it, I’m telling you. 
(Laughs.)  I mean, you know, there’s something — I don’t know — my
first-grade teacher, Mrs. Frances Wilson attended my law school
graduation.  I just love teachers.  I think anyone who decides to become
a teacher, it’s just — it’s — it’s one of the greatest gifts that one
has that they give.  And I thank you, Gwen, for doing all that you have
done.  Thank you.  (Applause.)  
  
And my husband is — Doug, you are doing so much and you’ve been
traveling all over our country, and I want to thank you.  And you are
going to, yet again, make history as the first gentleman of the United
States.  (Laughs.)  (Applause.)  
  
There are a lot of incredible leaders here.  I want to just, for a
moment, mention my friend Bob Casey.  (Applause.)  You — we have got to
send him back to the United States Senate.  For the time that I was in
the United States Senate and worked with Bob — I’m going to tell you
something.  You know, we had these — we would have these meetings where
all of the Democratic senators would get together for lunch, no cameras
in the room.  Bob, to- — almost every time, was one of the ones who
would stand up in that room with all the other senators from around the
country talking about the working people of Pennsylvania and why we
needed to have you in our mind when we were thinking about national
policy every single day.  That’s who Bob Casey is.  Let’s send him back
to the United States Senate.  (Applause.)  
  
Chris Deluzio, we want to thank you.  (Applause.)  What he is doing in
the halls of Congress — again, I mean, you send some fighters to D.C.,
Pennsylvania.  You sent some fighters to D.C.   
  
Your next attorney general — DePasquale, where are you?  (Applause.) 
I’ve done that work, I know what it requires, and you’re going to be
outstanding.   
  
So, you’ve got a lot of work, Pennsylvania, on your shoulders right now
that you’re carrying and you who are here volunteering to do this work. 
And it’s —  
  
AUDIENCE MEMBER: (Inaudible.)  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And we’re going to get it done.  (Applause.)  
  
And Malcolm Kenyatta knows exactly what I’m talking about.  I see him
almost every time I come into the state.   
  
So, I want to just address you all right now, as the volunteers.  You
know, Tim said it: This campaign for us is really born out of love of
country.  We all here, we love our country, and we know our country is
going to be as strong as our willingness to fight for it and to fight
for what we stand for.  (Applause.)  
  
You know, when you know what you stand for, you know what to fight for. 
When you stand for working people, you fight for working people.  When
you stand for freedom, whether it be to make decisions about your own
body or love who you love, you fight for those things.  (Applause.) 
When you believe in ending child poverty, you fight for that.  When you
believe in what we need to do to lift up the middle class, you fight for
the middle class.  (Applause.)  
  
These are the things we stand for, and these, therefore, are the things
we fight for.  And that’s what our election is about.   
  
Our election is about understanding the importance of this beautiful
country of ours in terms of what we stand for around the globe as a
democracy — as a democracy.  
  
We know there’s a duality to the nature of democracy.  On the one hand,
incredible strength when it is intact; what it does for its people to
protect and defend their rights, their liberty, and their freedom —
incredibly strong.  And incredibly fragile.  It is only as strong as our
willingness to fight for it.  
  
And that’s what this campaign is about.  This campaign is about a
recognition that, frankly, over the last several years, there’s been
this kind of perversion that has taken place, I think, which is to
suggest —  
  
AUDIENCE MEMBER:  (Inaudible.)  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — which is to suggest that the measure of the
strength of a leader is based on who you beat down when.  When what we
know is the real and true measure of the strength of a leader is based
on who you lift up.  (Applause.)   
  
That’s what we see as strength.  We know what strength looks like. 
That’s what strength looks like.  (Applause.)  Anybody who’s about
beating down other people is a coward.  (Applause.)  This is what
strength looks like.  
  
So, we know what we are about.  We know what we stand for.  
  
And one of the beautiful things about these next 79 days is what the
people in this room have already been doing and know.  Let’s build
community.  Let’s reinforce community.   
  
You all, as volunteers, what you know — and we’re going to spread the
word — is how you can look at the face of a perfect stranger and see in
their face a neighbor; that we see in each other our connection, our
interdependence — what we see in each other — which fortifies and
reinforces that the vast majority of us have so much more in common than
what separates us.  That’s what this campaign is about.   
  
Yes, it is about winning, and we will win — and we will win — and we
will win — (applause) — God willing.  
  
And through these next 79 days, we will continue to build community,
build coalitions, and remind each other we are all in this together.   
  
So, I thank you all so very much for what you are doing.  (Applause.)  
  
Now, let’s get back to work, shall we?  (Laughs.)  (Applause.)  
  
END                 3:12 P.M. EDT

\# \# \#
