---
date: '2023-03-03'
published_time: 2023-03-03 11:01:41-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/03/03/a-proclamation-on-national-consumer-protection-week-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Consumer Protection Week,\_2023"
---
 
     Families deserve to be protected from the fraudsters and scammers
who often prey on the most vulnerable among us, draining real money from
the pockets of hard-working Americans.  This National Consumer
Protection Week, we urge every American to learn about their legal
rights as consumers and the resources available to defend those rights.
 Consumer protection is critical to building a healthy economy from the
bottom up and middle out, and it is a question of basic fairness and
justice.

     After a few tough years, America is in the midst of a historic
economic recovery — growth is up, wages are up, and unemployment is at a
50-year low.  Manufacturing is booming, and more than 10 million
Americans have applied to start their own businesses — the most in any 2
years on record.  As people finally start to feel like they have a
little bit of breathing room, we cannot let fraud, cybercrimes, or
unfair business practices interrupt the progress we have made.

     My Administration is taking historic action to make sure that when
American consumers enter the marketplace, they get fair deals from
honest brokers.  Shortly after I took office, I signed an Executive
Order to promote fair competition across our economy — because when
companies have to compete on a fair, transparent playing field, it
lowers prices for consumers, raises wages for workers, and makes our
whole country more innovative and productive.  The Department of Justice
and Federal Trade Commission (FTC) have undertaken efforts to address
anticompetitive conduct that hurts consumers and workers, including
preventing further consolidation in the shipping and publishing
industries and proposing a ban on non-compete agreements.  As I have
long said:  Capitalism without competition is not capitalism; it is
exploitation.

     As I said in my State of the Union Address, we are cracking down on
those unfair, hidden “junk fees” like bank overdraft charges, cell phone
cancellation fees, or surprise ticketing costs that sneak up on
consumers, hiding the full price of what they are buying or making it
much too hard to switch to a cheaper product.  For example, the Federal
Communications Commission (FCC) finalized rules that would require cable
and internet providers to list fees and services up front, on clear,
easy-to-read labels.  The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) is
pressing banks and credit card companies to get rid of surprise
overdraft charges, bounced-check charges, and unfair late fees.  The
CFPB has also proposed new rules to cut excessive credit card late fees
from roughly $30 to $8. The Department of Transportation helped convince
major airlines to rebook trips for free if they cancel a flight and
issued a notice encouraging airlines to seat children next to an
accompanying adult at no additional cost.  And the FTC has pushed
electronics makers to let consumers choose where to get their products
fixed, saving on repair costs.  These things matter — they add up fast,
and when we act together, American consumers will save billions of
dollars every year.

     Meanwhile, the FTC is going after student loan scams, mortgage
scams, price gouging, and identity theft and is working with law
enforcement to crack down on other predatory practices.  The FCC is
working to stop today’s scourge of illegal robocalls by sharing
call-blocking tools and working to reduce spoofing by requiring phone
companies to implement caller ID authentication.

     To protect online privacy, the FTC is considering new rules that
would limit how much personal data companies can collect from consumers
and sell to third parties.  The CFPB is also considering a rule to give
consumers more control over their personal financial data, which in turn
gives them more freedom over where they choose to put their money.

     Every American has the power to stand up for their own consumer
rights and to help protect their communities and loved ones.  We urge
everyone to visit consumer.ftc.gov to learn more about today’s risks and
the resources available for fighting them and to report any suspected
fraud.  To report issues with a consumer financial product, like
aggressive debt collection, inaccurate credit reporting, or unfair
medical billing, visit consumerfinance.gov/complaint.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim March
5, 2023, through March 11, 2023, as National Consumer Protection Week. 
I call upon government officials, industry leaders, and advocates across
the Nation to share information about consumer protection and provide
our citizens with information about their rights as consumers.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this third day of
March, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh.

                                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
