---
date: '2023-03-20'
published_time: 2023-03-20 13:44:49-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/03/20/a-proclamation-on-national-agriculture-day-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Agriculture Day,\_2023"
---
 
     American farms remind us of the beauty and generosity of our
Nation.  They feed the country and the world, and with each new planting
season, they embody that most American of things — possibilities.  On
National Agriculture Day, we celebrate all the farmers, farmworkers,
ranchers, fishers, foresters, and other agricultural workers who do so
much to make our Nation strong, fuel our economy, and steward our lands.
 America owes them.

     There is a common spirit across America’s agricultural community: 
a respect for tradition, a drive to innovate, and a commitment to never
giving up — even when the going gets tough.  Small farmers, ranchers,
and meat processors also face many challenges.  Extreme weather, made
worse by the climate crisis, is destroying crops and decimating herds. 
Markets for seeds, feed, and fertilizer are dominated by a few large
companies, raising the cost of doing business.  Corporate consolidation
has reduced what small producers can get in exchange for their crops and
livestock, lowering farmer incomes and workers’ paychecks.  Too many
feel forced to give up farms that their families spent generations
growing.  A lack of competition has distorted the market.

     I have often said that capitalism without competition is not
capitalism — it is exploitation.  My Administration is working to
promote fair competition across our economy, including in agriculture.
 We are encouraging antitrust agencies to focus on anti-competitive
practices in agricultural markets.  We are working to secure the
so-called “right to repair” so farmers can fix their own machinery and
tractors, rather than being required to send them back to the
manufacturer.  We are making it easier for farmers to bring claims
against exploitative poultry processors, and the American Rescue Plan
has invested $1 billion to help smaller meat processors expand
operations.

     To ease rising costs, we are also investing $500 million in
domestic independent fertilizer production and expanding crop insurance
to support more farmers who are willing to risk double cropping.  The
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law is rebuilding roads, bridges, railways,
and ports and is expanding broadband, particularly in rural areas, which
will transform supply chains.  The Inflation Reduction Act is investing
a historic $40 billion in climate-smart agriculture and other programs
that can help producers stay on their lands, including approximately $18
billion for conservation and easements and $3.1 billion in relief for
distressed borrowers.  The Act also dedicates resources to help address
generations of systemic discrimination that have denied farmers of color
equal access to opportunities and credit.

     We will also keep fighting for the farm and food workers who form
the backbone of our economy, working with unions to improve workforce
training and workplace safety — whether on farms and ranches, at
processing or packing plants, or in delivery and food preparation.
 Every worker is entitled to fair pay, safe conditions, and the free and
fair choice to join a union.  That includes the large portion of
agricultural workers who are undocumented, many of whom have built lives
and worked here for decades.  In return for all that they have done to
keep America running, undocumented farmworkers should have a pathway to
citizenship.  Our economy needs them, and they deserve dignity and
respect.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim March
21, 2023, as National Agriculture Day.  I call upon all Americans to
join me in recognizing and reaffirming our commitment to and
appreciation for our country’s farmers, farmworkers, ranchers, fishers,
foresters, and all those who work in the agriculture sector across the
Nation.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twentieth day
of March, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
