---
date: '2023-03-10'
modified_time: 2023-03-10 11:34:07-05:00
published_time: 2023-03-10 11:34:06-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/03/10/notice-on-the-continuation-of-the-national-emergency-with-respect-to-iran-5/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Notice\_on the Continuation of the National Emergency with Respect to\_Iran"
---
 
     On March 15, 1995, by Executive Order 12957, the President declared
a national emergency pursuant to the International Emergency Economic
Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701‑1706) to deal with the unusual and
extraordinary threat to the national security, foreign policy, and
economy of the United States constituted by the actions and policies of
the Government of Iran.  On May 6, 1995, the President issued Executive
Order 12959, imposing more comprehensive sanctions on Iran to further
respond to this threat.  On August 19, 1997, the President issued
Executive Order 13059, consolidating and clarifying those previous
orders.  The President took additional steps pursuant to this national
emergency in Executive Order 13553 of September 28, 2010; Executive
Order 13574 of May 23, 2011; Executive Order 13590 of November 20, 2011;
Executive Order 13599 of February 5, 2012; Executive Order 13606 of
April 22, 2012; Executive Order 13608 of May 1, 2012; Executive Order
13622 of July 30, 2012; Executive Order 13628 of October 9, 2012;
Executive Order 13645 of June 3, 2013; Executive Order 13716 of January
16, 2016, which revoked Executive Orders 13574, 13590, 13622, 13645, and
provisions of Executive Order 13628; Executive Order 13846 of August 6,
2018, which revoked Executive Orders 13716 and 13628; Executive Order
13871 of May 8, 2019; Executive Order 13876 of June 24, 2019; Executive
Order 13902 of January 10, 2020; and Executive Order 13949 of September
21, 2020.  
  
     The actions and policies of the Government of Iran — including its
proliferation and development of missiles and other asymmetric and
conventional weapons capabilities, its network and campaign of regional
aggression, its support for terrorist groups, and the malign activities
of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps and its surrogates — continue
to pose an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security,
foreign policy, and economy of the United States.   
  
     For these reasons, the national emergency declared on March 15,
1995, must continue in effect beyond March 15, 2023.  Therefore, in
accordance with section 202(d) of the National Emergencies Act (50
U.S.C. 1622(d)), I am continuing for 1 year the national emergency with
respect to Iran declared in Executive Order 12957.  The emergency
declared by Executive Order 12957 constitutes an emergency separate from
that declared on November 14, 1979, by Executive Order 12170, in
connection with the hostage crisis.  This renewal, therefore, is
distinct from the emergency renewal of November 8, 2022.  
  
     This notice shall be published in the *Federal Register* and
transmitted to the Congress.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

THE WHITE HOUSE,  
   March 10, 2023.
