---
date: '2023-03-31'
published_time: 2023-03-31 11:47:02-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/03/31/a-proclamation-on-national-public-health-week-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Public Health Week,\_2023"
---
 
    The field of public health is grounded in the fundamental truth that
we are all in this together — that our health is connected and we are
stronger as a Nation when we work together to lift everyone’s
well-being.  During National Public Health Week, we celebrate the
life-saving work that our public health professionals do to keep
Americans healthy and safe.

     All of America has seen the importance of public health during the
past 3 years.  The pandemic shut down our businesses, closed our
schools, and robbed us of so much, including the lives of over one
million Americans.  While the virus is not gone, we have made enormous
progress, and it no longer controls our lives.  More than 230 million
Americans are fully vaccinated.  COVID deaths are down more than 90
percent.  Schools and businesses are open and thriving.  And these gains
are thanks in large part to the absolute courage and commitment of
everyone who contributes to protecting our public health — including
first responders and social workers, scientists and researchers, doctors
and nurses, and so many others.

     Public health professionals have been shaping our country for the
better since long before COVID arose.  From expanding access to
immunizations and improving safety standards for food, traffic, and the
workplace, to advocating for cleaner air and water, public health
professionals have improved the lives of all Americans and made our
country stronger, healthier, and more prosperous.

     Looking ahead, there is so much more to do to end health
disparities, keep advancing science, and improve the health and
well-being of all Americans.  That starts by making sure everyone has
access to quality health care.  Under my Administration, we have
expanded coverage through the Affordable Care Act, making it cheaper and
easier to sign up and saving millions of families $800 a year.  Through
the American Rescue Plan, we invested $7.6 billion in community health
centers, and my latest budget would put us on a path to doubling the
size of the Health Center Program, which funds care in underserved
areas.  We are also bringing down the cost of life-saving drugs like
insulin and investing in next-generation breakthroughs to prevent,
diagnose, and treat deadly diseases like cancer through the new Advanced
Research Projects Agency for Health.

     To take on the public health epidemic of gun violence, we passed
the most significant gun safety law in three decades, which includes
enhanced background checks for individuals under age 21, and funding for
red flag laws that can help keep guns from people who are a danger to
themselves and others.  The law also makes historic investments in
mental health, and it complements the launch of the 9-8-8 National
Suicide & Crisis Lifeline and additional work to protect kids online.
 Additionally, I reauthorized the landmark Violence Against Women Act
that I first wrote in 1990 and expanded protections for survivors of
domestic violence.  And we are fighting the opioid epidemic by cracking
down on fentanyl trafficking; pushing for tougher penalties for
suppliers; and expanding access to life-saving naloxone, treatment, and
recovery services.

     We have also made the biggest-ever investment in fighting the
public health threat represented by the climate crisis.  Our Justice40
Initiative works to ensure that 40 percent of our clean energy
investments flow to disadvantaged communities that have so often borne
the brunt, including the health consequences, of environmental damage.
 The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law is replacing poisonous lead pipes
that go into 10 million homes and 400,000 schools and child care centers
so that every child in America can turn on the faucet and drink clean
water.

     And we have released a national strategy to end hunger and reduce
diet-related diseases like diabetes and obesity.  The strategy provides
millions of students with free, nutritious school meals and help s
Americans exercise and make healthy choices in the foods they eat.  We
are also supporting people who want to quit smoking, and the Food and
Drug Administration has proposed rules to ban menthol cigarettes and
flavored cigars, which could save hundreds of thousands of lives.

     Since the Supreme Court’s extreme decision to strip women of their
fundamental right to choose, I have also taken urgent executive action
to safeguard emergency care and protect patients’ privacy.  The Congress
must act now to codify the protections of *Roe v. Wade* into law so
women in every State have the right to make their own health care
decisions.  At the same time, my Administration is also working to end
the maternal health crisis that leaves Black and Native American women
up to three times more likely than white women to die during pregnancy.

     These are all vital public health issues.  Their range reminds us
how connected our health is to the health of others.  That is why the
United States has continued to lead on global health challenges like
HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, and malaria, as well as COVID.  Working with the
G20 and other partners, we created the Pandemic Fund to strengthen
global pandemic preparedness, prevention, and response.  And at home, we
invested over $7 billion into strengthening the capacity of State and
local public health departments to respond to future public health
crises –- including by launching the new Public Health AmeriCorps to
train a strong, diverse public health workforce for the future. 

     As we look ahead, we have a choice to make.  We can repeat the
mistakes of the past that left us vulnerable to public health crises
like COVID, or we can seize the opportunity to better prepare ourselves
for the future and build a stronger public health system in every
community nationwide.  Let’s choose to move forward, celebrating our
dedicated public health professionals and making America more healthy,
resilient, and just.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim April
3 through April 9, 2023, as National Public Health Week.  I call on all
citizens, government agencies, private businesses, nonprofit
organizations, and other groups to take action to improve the health of
our Nation.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first
day of March, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh.

                                JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
