---
date: '2023-03-13'
published_time: 2023-03-13 12:09:40-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/03/13/a-proclamation-on-national-equal-pay-day-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Equal Pay Day,\_2023"
---
 
 Despite historic growth, rising wages, and unemployment at its lowest
rate in over 50 years, women working full-time, year-round are paid an
average 84 cents for every dollar paid to men.  Pay disparities are even
more pronounced for Black women, Native American women, Latinas, many
Asian American women, and women with disabilities.  On Equal Pay Day, we
call attention to this injustice and the pay disparities that add up to
hundreds of thousands of dollars in lost income over a lifetime,
undermining financial security for women and families across our Nation.
 My Administration is working to change that.  
  
     Discrimination accounts for some of the pay gap.  In nearly every
job — 90 percent of occupations, from retail to business to professional
sports — women are still paid, on average, less than men.  They can be
the very best at what they do but still have to fight for equal pay.
 The pay gap also stems from women’s disproportionate caregiving
responsibilities for children and aging loved ones, which can force them
to forgo job opportunities, reduce their work hours, or leave the
workforce at times.  And part of it is due to the fact that women are
underrepresented in careers that offer good pay and benefits, while
fields where they are overrepresented, like teaching and nursing, do not
pay what they should, despite being critical to our communities and
economy.

     To right that wrong and truly level the playing field, we need to
not only crack down on discrimination but also address the systemic
issues behind the pay gap.  My Administration has been laser-focused on
rooting out pay inequity and dismantling the barriers that women face in
the workplace and across our economy.  When COVID-19 forced millions of
women out of the workforce, often to care for their families at home,
women’s labor participation fell to its lowest level in 35 years.  But
we sent billions in direct stimulus relief to families to help make ends
meet.  We provided another $24 billion in funds to stabilize child care
providers, supporting working parents.  Today, millions of American
women are back at work — and a record 12 million jobs have been created
since I took office, with many more to come in good-paying clean energy
and semiconductor careers of the future.  And we are working to ensure
that those workers who will power our economy for years to come have
access to child care, giving women more opportunities to succeed.  
  
    Meanwhile, I took executive action to raise the minimum wage that
Federal contractors are required to pay their workers, directly
benefiting tens of thousands of women.  I also issued Executive Orders
to consider the use of salary history in pay-setting decisions for
Federal workers and to promote efforts to achieve pay equity for job
applicants and employees of Federal contractors.  I have fought for
every worker’s right to join a labor union and collectively bargain,
which has been proven to lift women’s wages, and I also signed historic
legislation strengthening workplace protections and support for pregnant
women and nursing mothers.  I will never stop pushing to expand access
to quality child and elder care while boosting pay for professional
caregivers, who are disproportionately women of color.

     We have used the power of our example and put women at the head of
the table across the highest levels of Government — from the Vice
Presidency, to the Supreme Court, to the most diverse Cabinet in our
history, which is the first ever to have equal numbers of women and men.
 Doing so sets expectations for women leaders across the country and in
every workplace and shows our daughters and granddaughters that there is
nothing a man can do that a woman cannot do.

     But we clearly still have a long way to go.  To tackle pay
discrimination head-on, I continue to urge the Congress to pass the
Paycheck Fairness Act, which would increase transparency, making it
harder for employers to justify disparities and easier for workers to
hold them accountable.  Information is power, and people need to know if
they are being unfairly paid.  We also have to get more families the
support needed for both women and men to lead full careers — including
paid family and medical leave and affordable child, elder, and home care
so no one in this country is ever again forced to choose between the job
they need and the family they love.

     I have often said that a job is about more than a paycheck — it is
about dignity and respect.  It is about honoring the basic bargain that
when you work hard in this country, you get ahead.  Equal pay is about
justice and fairness and living up to our values and who we are as a
Nation.  Together, we have to make sure that our daughters have the same
rights and opportunities as our sons. 

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim March
14, 2023, as National Equal Pay Day.  I call upon all Americans to
recognize the full value of women’s skills and their significant
contributions to the labor force, acknowledge the injustice of wage
inequality, and join efforts to achieve equal pay.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirteenth day
of March, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
