---
date: '2023-03-30'
published_time: 2023-03-30 11:14:22-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/03/30/a-proclamation-on-transgender-day-of-visibility/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Transgender Day of\_Visibility"
---
 
     Transgender Day of Visibility celebrates the joy, strength, and
absolute courage of some of the bravest people I know — people who have
too often had to put their jobs, relationships, and lives on the line
just to be their true selves.  Today, we show millions of transgender
and nonbinary Americans that we see them, they belong, and they should
be treated with dignity and respect.  Their courage has given countless
others strength, but no one should have to be brave just to be
themselves.  Every American deserves that freedom.

     Transgender Americans shape our Nation’s soul — proudly serving in
the military, curing deadly diseases, holding elected office, running
thriving businesses, fighting for justice, raising families, and much
more.  As kids, they deserve what every child deserves:  the chance to
learn in safe and supportive schools, to develop meaningful friendships,
and to live openly and honestly.  As adults, they deserve the same
rights enjoyed by every American, including equal access to health care,
housing, and jobs and the chance to age with grace as senior citizens. 
But today, too many transgender Americans are still denied those rights
and freedoms.  A wave of discriminatory State laws is targeting
transgender youth, terrifying families and hurting kids who are not
hurting anyone.  An epidemic of violence against transgender women and
girls, in particular women and girls of color, has taken lives far too
soon.  Last year’s Club Q shooting in Colorado was another painful
example of this kind of violence — a stain on the conscience of our
Nation.

     My Administration has fought to end these injustices from day one,
working to ensure that transgender people and the entire LGBTQI+
community can live openly and safely.  On my first day as President, I
issued an Executive Order directing the Federal Government to root out
discrimination against LGBTQI+ people and their families.  We have
appointed a record number of openly LGBTQI+ leaders, and I was proud to
rescind the ban on openly transgender people serving in the military. 
We are also working to make public spaces and travel more accessible,
including with more inclusive gender markers on United States passports.
 We are improving access to public services and entitlements like Social
Security.  We are cracking down on discrimination in housing and
education.  And last December, I signed the Respect for Marriage Act
into law, ensuring that every American can marry the person they love
and have that marriage accepted, period.

     Meanwhile, we are also working to ease the tremendous strain that
discrimination, bullying, and harassment can put on transgender children
— more than half of whom seriously considered suicide in the last year. 
The Department of Education is, for example, helping ensure that
transgender students have equal opportunities to learn and thrive at
school, and the Department of Justice is pushing back against extreme
laws that seek to ban evidence-based gender-affirming health care.

     There is much more to do.  I continue to call on the Congress to
finally pass the Equality Act and extend long-overdue civil rights
protections to all LGBTQI+ Americans to ensure they can live with safety
and dignity.  Together, we also have to keep challenging the hundreds of
hateful State laws that have been introduced across the country, making
sure every child knows that they are made in the image of God, that they
are loved, and that we are standing up for them.

     America is founded on the idea that all people are created equal
and deserve to be treated equally throughout their lives.  We have never
fully lived up to that, but we have never walked away from it either.
 Today, as we celebrate transgender people, we also celebrate every
American’s fundamental right to be themselves, bringing us closer to
realizing America’s full promise.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim March
31, 2023, as Transgender Day of Visibility.  I call upon all Americans
to join us in lifting up the lives and voices of transgender people
throughout our Nation and to work toward eliminating violence and
discrimination against all transgender, gender nonconforming, and
nonbinary people.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirtieth day
of March, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh.

                                JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
