---
date: '2023-03-31'
published_time: 2023-03-31 12:03:48-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/03/31/a-proclamation-on-arab-american-heritage-month-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Arab American Heritage Month,\_2023"
---
 
    The Arab American story is the American story — one of diverse
backgrounds and faiths, vibrant tradition, bold innovation, hard work,
commitment to community, and stalwart patriotism, all coming together to
accomplish something greater than any one of us.  This month, we join
together to celebrate the immeasurable contributions of Arab Americans
to our Nation and recommit ourselves to the timeless work of making sure
that all people have the opportunity to achieve the American Dream.

     Ours is a Nation shaped by the immigrant’s heart, and generations
of brave and hopeful people from across all countries, including from
the Arab world, have woven their unique heritages, customs, and talents
into the tapestry of America.  Today, the achievements of Arab Americans
are reflected in the arts and sciences; in businesses and faith
communities; in classrooms and hospitals; and in police stations,
firehouses, and every branch of the military.  Arab Americans are also
proudly serving throughout my Administration, bringing a diversity of
expertise that helps make this country stronger, more prosperous, and
more just.

     Sadly, we also recognize that, even as Arab Americans enrich our
Nation, many continue to face prejudice, bigotry, and violence — a stain
on our collective conscience.  Hate must have no safe harbor in this
country.  We must affirm that sentiment again and again.  That is why,
on my first day in office, I issued the Proclamation on Ending
Discriminatory Bans on Entry to The United States, which harmed the Arab
American community.  I also signed an Executive Order charging the
Federal Government with advancing equity for historically underserved
communities, including Arab Americans.  I was proud to host a
first-of-its-kind United We Stand Summit at the White House and announce
new measures to help communities prevent and respond to hate-based
threats, bullying, and harassment.  I established a new interagency
group to coordinate the Federal Government’s efforts to fight
antisemitism and Islamophobia, which impact Arab Americans.  And my
Administration is also exploring adding a new data category to
the census for Middle Eastern and North African communities as part of
our vital work to ensure that Arab Americans are seen, valued,
consulted, and properly considered as new policy is made.

     I have worked closely with our partners across the Middle East and
North Africa to advance a common vision for the world as well as a more
peaceful, prosperous, and integrated region.  Together, we are
strengthening our ability to address shared challenges, from regional
security to climate change; fostering economic development and
cooperation in science, technology, renewable energy, and space; and
bringing greater peace and prosperity to all of our people.

     The United States is the only Nation in the world founded on an
idea — the idea that we are all created equal and deserve to be treated
equally throughout our lives.  As a Nation, we have never fully lived up
to that promise, but we have never walked away from it either.  This
Arab American Heritage Month, let us all strive to honor our fundamental
values and advance equity and opportunity for all people, affirming once
again that diversity is our country’s greatest strength.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim April
2023 as Arab American Heritage Month.  I call upon all Americans to
learn more about the history, culture, and achievements of Arab
Americans and to observe this month with appropriate programs and
activities.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first
day of March, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
