---
date: '2023-03-01'
modified_time: 2023-03-01 13:03:11-05:00
published_time: 2023-03-01 12:51:38-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/03/01/notice-on-the-continuation-of-the-national-emergency-with-respect-to-ukraine-3/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Notice on the Continuation of the National Emergency with Respect to\_Ukraine"
---
 
     On March 6, 2014, by Executive Order 13660, the President declared
a national emergency pursuant to the International Emergency Economic
Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701-1706) to deal with the unusual and
extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of the
United States constituted by the actions and policies of persons that
undermine democratic processes and institutions in Ukraine; threaten its
peace, security, stability, sovereignty, and territorial integrity;
and contribute to the misappropriation of its assets. 

     On March 16, 2014, the President issued Executive Order 13661,
which expanded the scope of the national emergency declared in Executive
Order 13660, and found that the actions and policies of the Government
of the Russian Federation with respect to Ukraine undermine democratic
processes and institutions in Ukraine; threaten its peace, security,
stability, sovereignty, and territorial integrity; and contribute to the
misappropriation of its assets. 

     On March 20, 2014, the President issued Executive Order 13662,
which further expanded the scope of the national emergency declared in
Executive Order 13660, as expanded in scope in Executive Order 13661,
and found that the actions and policies of the Government of the Russian
Federation, including its purported annexation of Crimea and its use of
force in Ukraine, continue to undermine democratic processes and
institutions in Ukraine; threaten its peace, security, stability,
sovereignty, and territorial integrity; and contribute to the
misappropriation of its assets.

     On December 19, 2014, the President issued Executive Order 13685,
to take additional steps to address the Russian occupation of the Crimea
region of Ukraine.

     On September 20, 2018, the President issued Executive Order 13849,
to take additional steps to implement certain statutory sanctions with
respect to the Russian Federation.

     On February 21, 2022, the President issued Executive Order 14065,
which further expanded the scope of the national emergency declared in
Executive Order 13660, as expanded in scope in Executive Orders 13661
and 13662, and relied on for additional steps taken in Executive Orders
13685 and 13849, and found that the Russian Federation’s purported
recognition of the so-called Donetsk People’s Republic or Luhansk
People’s Republic regions of Ukraine contradicts Russia’s commitments
under the Minsk agreements and further threatens the peace, stability,
sovereignty, and territorial integrity of Ukraine, and thereby
constitutes an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security
and foreign policy of the United States.

     The actions and policies addressed in these Executive Orders
continue to pose an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national
security and foreign policy of the United States.  For this reason, the
national emergency declared in Executive Order 13660, which was expanded
in scope in Executive Order 13661, Executive Order 13662, and Executive
Order 14065, and under which additional steps were taken in Executive
Order 13685 and Executive Order 13849, must continue in effect beyond
March 6, 2023. 

     Therefore, in accordance with section 202(d) of the National
Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)), I am continuing for 1 year the
national emergency declared in Executive Order 13660.

     This notice shall be published in the *Federal Register* and
transmitted to the Congress.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

THE WHITE HOUSE,  
 March 1, 2023.
