---
date: '2023-03-31'
published_time: 2023-03-31 11:30:20-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/03/31/a-proclamation-on-national-sexual-assault-awareness-and-prevention-month-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Sexual Assault Awareness and Prevention Month,\_\
  2023"
---
 
    Freedom from sexual assault is a basic human right.  Yet tens of
millions of Americans –- our family and friends, colleagues, neighbors,
and classmates –- carry the trauma of sexual assault with them.
 National Sexual Assault Awareness and Prevention Month is an important
time to speak out, stand with courageous survivors, and finally change
the culture that has allowed sexual violence to exist for far too long.

    Sexual violence affects all people, regardless of geography, race,
age, ethnicity, gender, religion, sexual orientation, gender identity,
or economic background.  One in four women and 1 in 26 men have survived
a rape or attempted rape.  Abuse can happen anywhere — at work, at home,
at school, in other public places, or online.  It can lead to
depression, anxiety, PTSD, and other physical and emotional wounds.  We
must keep fighting to make clear how important consent is and how sexual
assault can be a crime.  And we must help survivors access safety,
justice, and healing.

    That is why I wrote the landmark Violence Against Women Act (VAWA)
30 years ago, at a time when domestic violence and sexual assault were
often swept under the rug.  We changed that.  VAWA has given us tools to
prevent and prosecute sexual assault and provide support for survivors. 
It has helped to save and rebuild so many lives, and I have never quit
working to strengthen the law, including expanding protections when VAWA
was reauthorized in 2000, 2005, 2013, and most recently in 2022.  These
efforts have expanded support for survivors, especially for people of
color, members of the LGBTQI+ community, and immigrants, and have
broadened protections to cover online abuse, such as the non-consensual
distribution of intimate images.  We increased VAWA funding this past
year by 20 percent to a historic $700 million for 2023.

    Today, we are doing more to help survivors in underserved
communities and rural areas.  We are working to reduce the backlog of
untested rape kits as many survivors continue to wait for justice.  We
are improving trauma-informed training for law enforcement and making
sure that adult survivors of child sexual abuse can get help, including
legal help and support for healing.  And we have ensured that Tribal
courts have jurisdiction over non-Native perpetrators suspected of
committing crimes of sexual assault, sex trafficking, and child abuse on
Tribal lands.  Additionally, through the American Rescue Plan, we have
delivered $1 billion in additional funding for rape crisis centers,
culturally specific community support organizations, and other domestic
violence and sexual assault services nationwide.

    We have also reformed how the military investigates and prosecutes
sexual assault, sexual harassment, and related crimes, including by
shifting authority from commanders to independent prosecutors.  I issued
an Executive Order listing sexual harassment and the wrongful
distribution of intimate images as offenses under the Uniform Code of
Military Justice.

    I launched a Federal task force to tackle the rise in online sexual
harassment and abuse, recommending concrete steps for prevention,
accountability, research, and support for survivors.  And I signed laws
ending forced arbitration and limiting the enforcement of non-disclosure
agreements to ensure people who have experienced sexual assault and
sexual harassment in the workplace can pursue justice.

    While we have made progress addressing sexual violence over the
years, there is still much work to do.  As President, I have expanded
funding for campus prevention efforts, building on the work I did as
Vice President when we launched “It’s On Us”.  I signed an Executive
Order calling on the Department of Education to protect students from
discrimination based on sex, including sex-based harassment and sexual
violence.  And I will continue to fight tirelessly to realize the
promise of Title IX, which requires institutions to prevent and address
sexual violence and harassment.  I have called on young men in
particular to speak up and stand against abuse — because the real test
of character is having the guts to do the right thing.  And I have been
awed by the courage of countless survivors in every part of the country
who have come forward to push for justice and have inspired many others
to do the same.  It is on us all to stand with them.

    NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim April
2023 as National Sexual Assault Awareness and Prevention Month.  I urge
all Americans to support sexual assault survivors, including when
survivors reach out and disclose abuse, and to strengthen our efforts to
prevent this abuse in the first place.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first
day of March, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh.

                                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
