---
date: '2023-03-31'
published_time: 2023-03-31 11:57:35-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/03/31/a-proclamation-on-world-autism-awareness-day-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on World Autism Awareness Day,\_2023"
---
 
     There is no one way to be autistic — each individual with autism
experiences it differently — but together, autistic people make
industries, communities, and our Nation stronger. Today, we celebrate
the achievements of neurodiverse people everywhere and champion the
equal rights and dignity of all those living on the autism spectrum.

     Here in the United States, more than 5.4 million adults
are autistic, and 1 in every 44 children has been diagnosed
with autism.  Yet this developmental disability is still misunderstood.
 Autistic people continue to face obstacles when seeking employment,
health care, education, and housing, and the immense contributions of
people with autism are often overlooked.  We owe it to our fellow
Americans to address the disparities they face and to support autistic
people with tools that facilitate clearer communication, increased
productivity, and greater independence. 

     That is why my Administration is funding cutting-edge research to
enable earlier autism diagnoses and to develop more resources to help
neurodiverse people of all ages thrive.  Recognizing that Autism
Spectrum Disorder is categorized as a disability, my American Rescue
Plan provided $25 billion to States to make it easier for people with
disabilities, including autism, to receive care at home.  We also rolled
out new tools and strategies for partner organizations to connect
disabled Americans with stable housing while helping them pay rent,
fight eviction, and prevent homelessness.  

     Last year, I was proud to reauthorize Kevin and Avonte’s Law, which
expands training for first responders and others giving care to people
with autism.  And in my recent State of the Union Address, I called on
the Congress to increase its support for community living for people
with disabilities.

    My Administration is also boosting employment opportunities for
autistic and other historically marginalized Americans.  I was proud to
sign an Executive Order advancing diversity, equity, inclusion, and
accessibility in the Federal workforce, which will help create new jobs
for Americans with autism and make space for their voices in the
policy-making process.  
  
     We are helping State and local governments, employers, and
nonprofits tap Federal funds to hire more Americans with disabilities
like autism through competitive integrated employment practices.  We are
cracking down on employers who discriminate on the basis of disability,
and we are fighting to end the unfair use of sub-minimum wages.  I
continue to urge States that have not yet expanded Medicaid coverage
under the Affordable Care Act to do the right thing and provide health
insurance to those currently locked out of Medicaid support that would
otherwise be available to them from the Federal Government.  Medicaid
expansion would help many Americans with disabilities, including those
with autism.

     To support students with autism, the Department of Education is
ensuring that public schools uphold their obligation to provide free and
appropriate public education in the least restrictive environment to all
students.  My Administration has also issued new guidance to help
schools avoid the discriminatory use of discipline, which too often
impacts autistic students, whose needs and behaviors are commonly
misunderstood.

     As we build a more inclusive, just, and equal Nation, we aim to
lead by the power of our example.  I reestablished the role of Special
Advisor on International Disability Rights at the Department of State to
prioritize disability rights in our policy discussions with foreign
nations.  The United States Agency for International Development is
advancing disability inclusion as part of its democracy, climate,
humanitarian, and peacebuilding activities.  And as co-chair of the
Global Action on Disability Network and a participant in the Global
Disability Summit, the United States continues to promote the equal
human rights of people with disabilities worldwide.

     America is founded on the idea that all people are created equal
and deserve to be treated equally throughout their lives.  Today and
always, let us strive to live up to this ideal.  Let us embrace our
diversity; empower each other to reach our full potential; and promote
the basic decency, acceptance, and fairness we know is right.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim April
2, 2023, as World Autism Awareness Day.  I call upon all Americans to
learn more about autism to improve early diagnosis, to learn more about
the experiences of autistic people from autistic people, and to build
more welcoming and inclusive communities to support people with autism.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first
day of March, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh.

                                JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
