---
date: '2023-03-31'
modified_time: 2023-03-31 11:46:52-04:00
published_time: 2023-03-31 11:46:51-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/03/31/a-proclamation-on-national-cancer-control-month-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Cancer Control Month,\_2023"
---
 
     Cancer has touched nearly every American family, and it remains the
second leading cause of death in the United States.  During National
Cancer Control Month, we call on all Americans to join our movement to
end cancer as we know it.  By raising awareness of the risk factors,
promoting life-saving regular screenings, investing in research, and
expanding access to affordable treatment, we can give patients,
survivors, and their families the hope and new beginnings they deserve.

     We have made enormous progress in the half-century since our
country first declared war on cancer.  We have learned it is not a
single disease but, in fact, over 200 different types of cancers caused
by different genetic mutations.  We have discovered life-saving
prevention and early detection measures, new medicines, and innovative
therapies, slashing the death rate by a third since 1991.  But despite
all that progress, cancer still claims the lives of over 600,000
Americans a year.  And for many communities of color, the mortality
rates are far worse, with Black Americans facing the highest mortality
rate of any racial and ethnic group for all cancers combined and for
most major cancers.  Patients and their loved ones are still overwhelmed
by a flood of unfamiliar information; worried about how they will pay
for treatment; and awash in bewilderment, frustration, and fear.  And
those who have lost someone have often lost a piece of their soul. 

     I am more confident than ever, though, that we can change things.
 Last year, as part of the Unity Agenda that I outlined during my State
of the Union Address, the First Lady and I reignited the Cancer Moonshot
initiative that President Barack Obama first asked me to lead in 2016.
 We have set a new goal to cut America’s cancer death rate by half in
the next 25 years, turning more cancers from death sentences into
treatable diseases and creating a more supportive experience for
patients and families.  As a first step, I established the Advanced
Research Projects Agency for Health, securing $2.5 billion in bipartisan
funding from the Congress to develop breakthroughs in preventing,
diagnosing, and treating cancer and other deadly diseases.  This will
pioneer partnerships to get those breakthroughs to the clinic.
 Additionally, I signed an Executive Order that will require
biotechnology to be made in America, preserving access to lifesaving
medications and making sure we lead the world in biotech innovation.

     Improving treatment options is only part of the fight — we also
need to make those treatments more affordable for everyone.  To that
end, the American Rescue Plan expanded the Affordable Care Act, which
requires insurers to pay for cancer screenings and primary care visits
and to cover cancer survivors and others who have preexisting
conditions.  We are working to make sure insurers cover patient
navigation services, too, to help patients, caregivers, and families
through screening, diagnosis, treatment, and survival.  Meanwhile, the
Inflation Reduction Act will cap out-of-pocket drug costs for seniors on
Medicare at $2,000 per year.  This is a gamechanger for cancer patients
in particular, whose medicines can currently cost seven times that.  And
the Honoring our PACT Act is ensuring that veterans exposed to
cancer-causing toxic substances during their military service get the
health care and benefits that they have earned.  

     More than a third of all cancer cases are preventable, so my
Administration is working to reduce people’s exposure to risk factors.
 That starts with tackling the top cause of cancer deaths in this
country:  smoking.  The Food and Drug Administration has proposed rules
to ban menthol cigarettes and flavored cigars, which could prevent
hundreds of thousands of deaths.  For help quitting or avoiding smoking
in the first place, visit SmokeFree.gov, call 1-800-QUIT-NOW, or text
QUITNOW to 333888.

     We are also making it easier for Americans to adopt healthy eating
and exercise habits, which have been shown to lower cancer risk.  Our
national strategy to end hunger seeks to provide healthy, free school
meals to millions of kids; boost Medicaid and Medicare coverage for
things like nutrition and obesity counseling; and make fruits and
vegetables more affordable for low-income families.

     Because detecting cancer early can increase survival, we urge all
Americans to catch up on routine screening appointments they may have
missed during the pandemic and to encourage loved ones to do the same.
 In the last year, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention issued
more than $200 million in grants to support cancer screening in every
State, many United States territories, and Tribal Nations.  The
Department of Health and Human Services is helping community health
centers improve access to early detection, too.  To learn which
screenings are right for you, talk to your health care provider,
visit cdc.gov/cancerscreening or cancer.gov/screeningtests, or call
1-800-4-CANCER.

     The fight against cancer is personal to so many families, including
ours.  It is one of the reasons I ran for President.  And it is
something big that we can all do together.  Cancer does not care if you
are Republican or Democrat — we need everyone in the game.  We need the
scientific and medical communities, bringing their boldest thinking.  We
need the private sector, testing new treatments and sharing more
knowledge.  We need people living with cancer, survivors, caregivers,
and families, whose absolute courage this work is all about.  For the
lives we can save and those we have lost, let this be a truly American
moment that rallies the country and the world together to end cancer as
we know it and to cure some cancers for good.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, do hereby proclaim April 2023 as National Cancer
Control Month.  I encourage citizens, government agencies, private
businesses, nonprofit organizations, and other interested groups to join
in activities that will increase awareness of what Americans can do to
prevent, detect, treat, and control cancer.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first
day of March, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh.

                                JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
