---
date: '2023-03-21'
modified_time: 2023-03-21 12:21:13-04:00
published_time: 2023-03-21 13:15:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/03/21/a-proclamation-on-establishment-of-the-avi-kwa-ame-national-monument/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Establishment of the Avi Kwa Ame National\_Monument"
---
 
     Yuman Tribes tell that creation began at a towering mountain in the
southernmost reaches of Nevada at the confluence of the Mojave and
Sonoran Deserts.  The Mojave people call this mountain Avi Kwa Ame, or
Spirit Mountain.  The mountain and the surrounding arid valleys and
mountain ranges are among the most sacred places for the Mojave,
Chemehuevi, and some Southern Paiute people, and are also significant to
other Tribal Nations and Indigenous peoples, including the Cocopah,
Halchidhoma, Havasupai, Hopi, Hualapai, Kumeyaay, Maricopa, Pai Pai,
Quechan, Yavapai, and Zuni.  These Tribal Nations have been here since
time immemorial, and the area contains evidence of human occupancy
reaching back more than 10,000 years.  Tribal members still sing songs,
passed from generation to generation throughout their history, that tell
the stories of travel and connection to the springs, peaks, and valleys
in alignment with the migration patterns of game species, the
availability of water, and the life cycles of the plants they have
continually harvested.

     For the Tribal Nations that trace their creation to Avi Kwa Ame,
the power and significance of this place reside not just in the mountain
itself, but radiate across the valleys and mountain ranges of the
surrounding desert landscape containing the landmarks and spiritually
important locations that are linked by oral traditions and beliefs.
 Tribal Nations have shared those traditions and beliefs across many
generations through Salt Songs, Bird Songs, and other origin songs,
which are central to Tribal members’ knowledge of the landscape,
enabling them to navigate across the diverse terrain, find essential
resources, and perform healing, funeral, and other rituals.  These
traditional and place-based songs connect Tribal members to their
homelands, allowing for profound relationships with Avi Kwa Ame and its
surroundings and providing healing and spiritual connections even if
they are far from home.

     The presence of Avi Kwa Ame — which has been designated as a Tribal
cultural property and listed on the National Register of Historic Places
— in the eastern portion of the area provides a distinctive lens through
which members of Tribal Nations experience these sacred lands, the
plants and animals found there, and their spiritual traditions.  In
these traditions, power emanates from the mountain itself, creating
spiritual and visual connections throughout the landscape.

     The Avi Kwa Ame landscape includes the McCullough and Lucy Gray
Mountains in the west; the Piute and Eldorado Valleys, split by the
Highland Mountains, in the center; the Castle and Dead Mountains in the
south; and the Eldorado Mountains and the monument namesake, Avi Kwa
Ame, part of the Newberry Mountains, in the east.  This entire landscape
is an object of historic and scientific interest requiring protection
under section 320301 of title 54, United States Code (the “Antiquities
Act”).  The landscape as a whole is significant and unique, providing
context for each of its constituent parts, which are themselves objects
warranting protection.  As well as being an object itself, the landscape
contains innumerable individual geologic features, archaeological sites,
and havens for sensitive and threatened species — including the Mojave
desert tortoise, Gila monster, and desert bighorn sheep — and it
provides habitat for centuries-old Joshua trees and other objects that
are independently of historic or scientific interest and require
protection under the Antiquities Act.  Some of the objects are also
sacred to Tribal Nations; are sensitive, rare, or vulnerable to
vandalism and theft; or are dangerous to visit and, therefore, revealing
their specific names and locations could pose a danger to the objects or
the public.

     People have lived, traveled, and worked in this landscape for more
than 10,000 years.  Across the Avi Kwa Ame landscape, projectile points
and pictographs give testament to Indigenous peoples’ hunting
activities, while groundstone artifacts, milling artifacts, and ancient
quarries demonstrate how tools were created and used to find, extract,
and process both plant and mineral resources.  Fluted projectile points,
which are some of the earliest stone tool technologies in North America
and rarely recorded in southern Nevada, have been found in the
McCullough Mountains and nearby areas.  Numerous rockshelters can be
found amid the cliffs that surround these valleys, where ancestral
Indigenous peoples camped or lived.  Pottery fragments as old as 1,500
years, found near some of these rockshelters, are believed to have been
used either in more stable settlements or camps or for safely
transporting materials across long distances.  While evidence of the
passage of Indigenous peoples is present throughout the landscape, more
permanent occupation in the area was limited by water availability, and
most camping areas or settlements were temporary, facilitating hunting
or allowing people to gather plants or minerals.  The Piute Valley is at
the center of paleoclimate and anthropological studies focusing on
paleoclimatic changes and their influences on uses of the land by
Indigenous peoples.

     Many of the plant and animal species that live in this landscape
have spiritual, cultural, or medicinal value to Indigenous peoples.
 Traditional hunting of bighorn sheep in the mountainous areas of
southern Nevada remains culturally important for some Tribal Nations
today.  For centuries, people have gathered piñon nuts in the ridges of
the McCullough, Newberry, and New York Mountains.  The McCullough
Mountains contain rockshelters, lithic scatters, artifact scatters,
petroglyphs, pine nut caches, a trail, and a residential camp; these
places were likely used for winter camps that allowed Indigenous peoples
to hunt and collect piñon nuts.  To the north, the Highland Mountains
hold evidence of many residential camps, quarries, and rockshelters, as
well as petroglyphs depicting resources in the area, such as acorns,
large game, and water.  One rockshelter in the Highland Mountains is
particularly unique in that it contains hundreds of well-preserved,
otherwise perishable objects, including some likely used for capturing
small game.  To the northeast, the Eldorado Mountains feature
petroglyphs likely inscribed by members of the Fort Mojave Tribe and
pictographs that likely were used to provide direction and facilitate
travel as people migrated or searched for resources, while the Newberry
Mountains in the south contain evidence of quarrying and rockshelters.
 Ancient Indigenous peoples visited the Castle and New York Mountains
to obtain stone such as obsidian for tools, leaving behind petroglyphs
and other evidence of their presence.  Hiko Spring and the adjacent
canyon contain numerous Indigenous petroglyphs along with etchings made
by Euro-American settlers as far back as the late 19th century.
 Rockshelters are also found in the Newberry Mountains, and canyons in
the area, including Grapevine Canyon and Sacatone Wash, contain
petroglyphs that mark the presence of Indigenous peoples for millennia. 
The cliffs above Bridge Canyon contain constructed rock walls that
continue to be studied to determine their origin and purpose. 

     The Avi Kwa Ame area’s rugged geology, which is unlike the rest of
southern Nevada, tells the story of a landscape dramatically changed by
its volcanic history, which has sparked the imaginations of geologists
for more than 150 years.  Each mountain range — the Highland, Castle,
Eldorado, Newberry, Lucy Gray, McCullough, and New York Mountains — has
long served as a distinct and important scientific resource to
geologists.  The plutons, intrusive dikes, and other igneous formations
in these ranges have provided particularly important insights into the
study of volcanism during the Tertiary period, especially the Miocene
epoch.

     The Avi Kwa Ame area’s desert location and geography also allow for
a soundscape that is among the most naturally quiet in the United
States.  Additionally, the area’s exceptional dark skies, rare in highly
populated Clark County, have been noted for the excellent stargazing
opportunities they offer and for benefits to migratory birds.

     The Lucy Gray Mountains, captured within the western border of the
area, include incised drainages within rounded igneous boulder fields
and isolated springs that support an important migration route for
desert bighorn sheep.  Rising between the flat expanses of the Ivanpah
and Piute Valleys, this range represents an important area for igneous
geology and soils research related to volcanism and tectonism. 

     To the northwest, the McCullough Mountains are characterized by an
undulating crest flanked by rocky outcrops and cliffs, punctuated by
black basalt and springs.  For millennia, Indigenous peoples have sought
refuge in the higher elevations that provide respite from the heat of
the valley floor; sustenance in the form of piñon nuts and game for
hunting; and water and shelter.  The ancient Precambrian rock and its
desert vegetation — ranging from creosote in the low elevation, to
blackbrush and Joshua trees in the middle elevations, to old-growth
piñon and juniper in the peaks — provide habitat for desert bighorn
sheep and many other animal species.

     Running north-south through the center of the landscape, the
Highland Mountains contain distinctive large, tilted, colorful igneous
and sedimentary rocks and stark cliffs of exposed Precambrian rock.
 These mountains provide a vital home to a small remnant herd of desert
bighorn sheep that survived when most other sheep populations in Nevada
were lost to drought, human encroachment, disease, and other
environmental pressures.  Indigenous peoples camped and hunted in these
mountains, and ancient rockshelters and petroglyphs are found throughout
the range.  Igneous features in the area have also been the subject of
decades of geological study by researchers seeking to enhance
understanding of ancient volcanic activity. 

     The low-lying Piute and Eldorado Valleys run through the center of
the Avi Kwa Ame area.  These valleys contain spiritual pathways and
trails that emanate from Avi Kwa Ame that have been followed by Yuman
peoples for generations and continue to be significant to Tribal Nations
today.  Characterized by Mojave Desert vegetation, these valleys provide
core habitat for the ancient and threatened Mojave desert tortoise.  To
the southwest, the Castle Mountains extend from within the Avi Kwa Ame
area across the border into California, providing important connectivity
for bighorn sheep migrating between southern Nevada and protected lands
within California.

     In the northeast corner lie the Eldorado Mountains, formed of
Precambrian rock and containing sharp ridges with narrow, deep canyons
extending to the east that fade into bajadas on the western slope.  The
highest of these mountains, Ireteba Peak, is named after Irataba, a
Mojave Tribal leader of the mid-1800s.  Water is scarce here and summer
temperatures exceed 120 degrees Fahrenheit, yet the area contains
evidence of longstanding human activity, including petroglyphs and
pictographs, as well as historic mine sites.

     The turbulent geologic past of the Avi Kwa Ame area has sculpted a
landscape of steep cliffs, rolling foothills and bajadas, and arid
valleys with limited water.  Precambrian schist, gneiss, and granite can
be found on the west side of the Eldorado Mountains and McCullough
Mountains and in the Eldorado Valley, as well as in the Nellis Wash
area.  The Piute and Eldorado Valleys and the mountains surrounding them
have long been a focus for studies of groundwater, geology, alluvial fan
formation, flood hazard management, continental extension, and faulting
and volcanism. 

     Among the quartzite cliffs and felsic plutonic rock of the Newberry
Mountains, which form part of the eastern boundary of the Avi Kwa Ame
area, stands Spirit Mountain, the highest peak within the range.  Avi
Kwa Ame has been studied extensively by geologists researching the
processes that cause the formation of geologic features, such as dikes
and batholiths, as well as the development of new methods for
geochronology.  The mountain’s geology features Precambrian rocks in the
north and white and pink granitic spires in the south.  Avi Kwa Ame and
the surrounding Newberry Mountains are foundational in the creation
stories of the Mojave, Pai Pai, Cocopah, Kumeyaay, Havasupai, Maricopa,
Hualapai, Yavapai, Quechan, and Halchidhoma and are recognized by many
Tribes as a place of great spiritual importance.  In the foothills of
the Newberry Mountains, Hiko Spring Canyon contains the year-round Hiko
Spring, an area that has been used by humans for hundreds if not
thousands of years, evinced by a collection of petroglyphs depicting
bighorn sheep, handprints, and other geometric shapes, as well as
historic rock carvings. 

     Many of the features that made this landscape accessible to
Indigenous peoples were also used by Euro-American settlers and
traders.  Early expeditions of fur traders, miners, and the military
passed through the southern part of the Avi Kwa Ame landscape, often
following the Mojave Trail, which is still visible today.  The trail is
part of a network of ancient trails used by Indigenous peoples to safely
traverse the harsh and unforgiving Mojave Desert.  The easternmost miles
of the Mojave Trail in Nevada pass by Granite Springs in the far
southeastern corner of the Avi Kwa Ame area.  The springs were the first
stop on the Mojave Trail for ancient Indigenous peoples heading west
from the Colorado River and have provided life-sustaining water to many
generations of travelers.  The area contains petroglyphs and
rockshelters and holds historic and cultural significance for Tribal
Nations. 

     In 1826, Jedediah Smith led a fur trapping expedition on a segment
of the Old Spanish National Historic Trail, subsequently labeled the
Mojave Road, which was the first use by traders of European descent.
 The Mojave Road, which bisects the Avi Kwa Ame landscape, continued to
be used by traders and settlers traveling between New Mexico and
California throughout the 19th century.  To the east, within Grapevine
Canyon in the Bridge Canyon Wilderness, evidence of 19th century mining
roads from the Searchlight District remains on the landscape, as do
traces of the Quartette Railroad, which the Quartette Mining Company
operated in the early 1900s between Searchlight and the Colorado River.
 The New York Mountains and Piute Valley were also later used for
military training exercises for armored vehicles as part of the Desert
Training Center during World War II and during the Cold War, including
some under the command of General George S. Patton.  Additionally, in
the Chiquita Hills area, there is evidence of training operations,
including foxholes, rock walls, and gun turrets.

     While there is evidence of Indigenous mining in the area going back
hundreds of years, the 1890s saw settlers of European descent in the
area discover a number of valuable mineral deposits, including
turquoise, gold, silver, copper, lead, and molybdenum, which gave rise
to a number of mining districts that are replete with evidence of the
landscape’s mining history.  Southwest of the Wee Thump Joshua Tree
Wilderness, near the California border, the Crescent Townsite area
contains the remnants of a rich history of mining of turquoise and gold,
including evidence of railroad construction and mineral exploration and
extraction.  The surrounding historic Crescent Mining District, which
stretched into the New York Mountains and the south end of the
McCullough Range, was a hub for turquoise mining in the late 19th
century.  There is evidence of mining in this area by Indigenous peoples
since at least the late 13th century.  Workshops, homes, pottery, and
polishing tools have all been found, indicating that Indigenous peoples
mined the Crescent Peak area for turquoise long before Europeans
permanently settled in the Americas.  The area was later developed for
gold mining; remnants of the mining history, including an early 20th
century arrastra and remnants of a railroad, are scattered among ancient
Joshua trees standing sentinel to the passage of generations.  While
limited studies have occurred, the historic mining districts of
Searchlight and Newberry, along with areas in Nellis Wash, also contain
remnants of the area’s mining past that may provide new historical
insights into the metal extraction industry in the area during the first
half of the 20th century.  As a testament to the harsh and remote
landscape and the limited resources necessary to support human
habitation, materials from early mining activity and railroads were
often repurposed to support subsequent mining and construction of homes
and other buildings both inside and outside the Avi Kwa Ame area. 

     Piute Valley also contains the historic Walking Box Ranch site,
which is known for its significance in the history of cattle ranching,
mining, entertainment, and politics in southern Nevada.  The ranch,
initially part of vast holdings grazed by historic Rock Springs Land and
Cattle Company in the 19th century, was sold off in the 1920s and was
purchased by Hollywood silent film stars Clara Bow and Rex Bell in 1931.
 The couple operated the ranch together for over a decade as a
functioning cattle ranch and occasional vacation retreat for their
Hollywood friends.  Among the dignitaries hosted by the Bells were
General Patton and some of his troops while they were training in the
area during World War II.  Later, Bell went into politics and served as
Nevada’s Lieutenant Governor.  The United States acquired the property
in 2005, and the entire ranch, including the main house, outbuildings
and related structures, and associated landscape features, is considered
architecturally significant as a well-maintained example of cattle ranch
property of the Southwest.  Of particular interest are the main house,
which features Spanish Colonial Revival architecture, and the barn and
elements of the corrals, which provide preserved examples of railroad
tie construction. 

     The rich human history revealed by the Avi Kwa Ame area coexists
with the area’s scientifically significant biological diversity, rare
plants and animals, and ecology.  As a whole and across a broad range of
taxa, the Avi Kwa Ame area has been noted for providing ecological and
habitat connectivity for a wide range of species, offering great
potential for scientific studies of plants, animals, and ecosystems.
 Situated where the Mojave and Sonoran Desert ecosystems converge, and
incorporating a wide elevation gradient that supports a broad range of
ecosystems, the area both provides homes to a diverse range of species
and communities and offers tremendous potential to support adaptation to
climate change. 

     The bajadas and rolling valleys of the Avi Kwa Ame area support
plant communities ranging from creosote-bursage scrub, shadscale scrub,
and blackbrush to piñon-juniper woodland.  The area showcases the
transition between the vegetation of the Sonoran and Mojave Deserts,
creating unique assemblages of species that do not typically occupy the
same ecosystems and as a result are of interest to ecologists, climate
scientists, and biologists.  Biological soil crusts, desert pavement,
and bedrock cliffs and outcrops support unique soil environments and can
be found throughout the Avi Kwa Ame area.  The Eldorado Valley and Lucy
Gray Mountains in particular are of interest to biologists who study
biological soil crusts.  Nearly the entire area has been classified as
an Ecologically Core or Ecologically Intact portion of the Mojave Desert
region.  Sites spanning a vegetation gradient in the Newberry Mountains
provide data for botanists and climate scientists to study changes in
climate, land use, and vegetation, and to understand paleoclimate,
climate and vegetation change, and desert community ecology.  The
creosote-white bursage scrub community fills the valleys, plains, and
bajadas at low elevations in the Avi Kwa Ame area.  This plant community
also supports four-winged saltbush and wolfberry.  Dune-like sandy soils
are home to creosote bush and big galetta grass, while the lowest
elevations are spotted with Mojave yucca or Joshua trees.  Catclaw
acacia, honey mesquite, and sweetbush, rare in arid environments, can be
found in washes.  The area is also home to rare plants, including the
yellow two-tone penstemon, two-toned beardtongue, rosy two-toned
penstemon, and white-margined penstemon, as well as rare bryophytes such
as American dry rock moss in Grapevine Canyon.

     Joshua trees, found in both the Piute and Eldorado Valleys and west
toward the Lucy Gray Mountains, are predicted to be negatively impacted
by climate change because of their slow growth and weather-dependent
reproduction, and the Piute Valley is scientifically important for
studies of this fragile species.  In the southwest portion of the area,
along the California border from the New York Mountains to the Piute
Valley, visitors find thriving forests, particularly around the portion
of Highway 164 that runs from Searchlight to the California border.
 This portion of Highway 164 is known as “Joshua Tree Highway” because
of the unique density of these trees.  Just north of the New York
Mountains and Highway 164, the Wee Thump Joshua Tree Wilderness and
surrounding area comprise a stunning, old-growth Joshua tree forest,
home to Nevada’s largest known Joshua tree.  The wilderness, named for
the Paiute phrase for “ancient ones,” contains trees up to 800 years
old.  Many bird species rely heavily on the nesting cavities the trees
provide, and the Wee Thump area is both home to western bluebirds,
northern flickers, hairy woodpeckers, and ash-throated flycatchers; and
the location of Nevada’s only known sightings of the gilded flicker.

     Dry slopes, ridges, and valley bottoms found across the Avi Kwa Ame
landscape support shadscale scrub plant communities, featuring budsage,
winterfat, rabbitbrush, big sagebrush, spiny hopsage, and black
greasewood, along with native desert grasses such as bottlebrush
squirreltail, Sandberg bluegrass, and Indian ricegrass, and flowering
plants such as polished blazingstar.  Middle-elevation slopes and upper
bajadas are home to blackbrush scrub communities, which shade into
piñon-juniper woodland in upper elevations.  In the lower reaches of the
Newberry Mountains, Mojave Desert plants such as teddy bear cholla,
Mojave yucca, barrel cactus, and even smoke tree can also be found.  One
of the few wet areas, Grapevine Wash, supports cottonwood trees and
canyon grape, along with cattails and rushes.  The location of the
Newberry Mountains at the convergence of the Mojave, Great Basin, and
Sonoran Deserts makes the area the terminus for the range of 45 plant
species, resulting in an area of unusual diversity that is significant
for studies of climate, vegetation, and environmental change. 

     Along with diverse plant communities, the Avi Kwa Ame landscape
supports an array of desert wildlife, including many species that rely
on the area’s natural springs and seeps.  The Hiko, Piute, and Roman dry
washes are internationally known for the important bird habitat they
provide, including catclaw acacia, mesquite, cottonwood, desert willow,
and sandbar willow that provide rare pockets of habitat for species
distinct from those in the surrounding desert.  Additionally,
Phainopepla, a sensitive species that is the most northerly
representative of silky flycatchers, use the trees for nesting and eat
mistletoe seeds in these washes, making them uniquely important for this
species in Nevada. 

     The landscape overall supports a broad array of bird species and
has long been important for ornithologists.  A diverse cadre of raptors,
such as ferruginous hawk, bald eagle, golden eagle, burrowing owl, and
peregrine falcon hunt their prey and nest, both above and below ground,
in the stark landscape.  Species of interest to both amateur and
professional ornithologists make their homes here, including Gambel’s
quail, sage thrasher, Bendire’s thrasher, Costa’s hummingbird, gilded
flicker, rufous hummingbird, cactus wren, northern mockingbird,
ash-throated flycatcher, American goldfinch, and potentially Yuma
ridgeway’s rail.

     A broad variety of desert mammal species also make their homes in
the area, ranging from the tiny pocket gopher to large ungulates like
mule deer, along with a diversity of predators including bobcats and
ring-tailed cats.  An incredible array of bat species, including 18
species that have been identified as at-risk by the Bureau of Land
Management (BLM), call the landscape home, including pollinators like
the pallid bat, the rare spotted bat, and a diverse group of
insectivorous bat species that roost in rock crevices, former mines, and
other small spaces.  The area provides important habitat and vital
connectivity for the Nelson (desert) bighorn sheep.  The Highland Range
has been identified as crucial bighorn habitat, and bighorn sheep also
traverse the ridges of the McCullough and Lucy Gray Mountains, the
western slopes of the Newberry Mountains, and the Nellis Wash.

     Among reptiles and amphibians, the area is most notable as habitat
for the threatened Mojave desert tortoise.  The elusive desert tortoise,
with its long lifespan, low juvenile survival rate, and extreme capacity
for conserving water, is a rare and incredible symbol of this
challenging landscape.  The Piute and Eldorado Valleys and other
low-lying portions of the Avi Kwa Ame area, including Nellis Wash, have
long been recognized as the highest priority for desert tortoise habitat
conservation and restoration in southern Nevada; the connectivity and
condition of the habitat as well as its location within critical habitat
recovery units make this area uniquely suited to supporting tortoise
conservation.  The area is also critical to scientific studies of desert
tortoise population biology, genetics, and ecology. 

     Many other reptile species rely on the area, including the elusive
and beautiful banded Gila monster; the stocky, iguana-like chuckwalla;
the western banded gecko; and the colorful Great Basin collared lizard. 
Species unique to and emblematic of the Mojave Desert, including the
Mojave Desert sidewinder and Mojave shovel-nosed snake, make their homes
here, along with the shimmering, nocturnal desert rosy boa, all of which
are BLM sensitive species.  Amphibians, which are rare in harsh desert
environments, including the Arizona toad, also survive in this dry
environment, and the red-spotted toad has been known to breed in
Grapevine Canyon. 

     The flowering plants that survive despite the challenges of the
sunbaked landscape, such as the brilliant fields of wildflowers in the
Newberry Mountains, support and are supported by pollinators like the
monarch butterfly, northern Mojave blue butterfly, MacNeill sooty wing
skipper, and flat-faced cactus bee.  The area also contains potential
habitat for the endemic Mojave gypsum bee and Mojave poppy bee. 

     Protection of the Avi Kwa Ame area will preserve its diverse array
of natural and scientific resources, ensuring that the cultural,
prehistoric, historic, and scientific values of this area endure for the
benefit of all Americans.  The living landscape holds sites of
historical, traditional, cultural, and spiritual significance; is the
setting of the creation story of multiple Tribal Nations; and is
inextricably intertwined with the sacred significance of Avi Kwa Ame. 
The area contains numerous objects of historic and scientific interest,
and it provides world-class outdoor recreation opportunities, including
hiking, camping, birdwatching, motorized touring, stargazing, hunting,
and pursuing amateur geology, all of which support a growing travel and
tourism economy in the region.

     WHEREAS, the Antiquities Act authorizes the President, in his
discretion, to declare by public proclamation historic landmarks,
historic and prehistoric structures, and other objects of historic or
scientific interest that are situated upon the lands owned or controlled
by the Federal Government to be national monuments, and to reserve as a
part thereof parcels of land, the limits of which shall be confined to
the smallest area compatible with the proper care and management of the
objects to be protected; and

     WHEREAS, I find that each of the objects identified above, and
objects of the type identified above within the area, are objects of
historic or scientific interest in need of protection under 54 U.S.C.
320301, regardless of whether they are expressly identified as an object
of historic or scientific interest in the text of this proclamation; and

     WHEREAS, I find that the unique objects and resources within the
Avi Kwa Ame landscape, in combination, make the landscape more than the
mere sum of its parts, and the entire landscape within the boundaries
reserved by this proclamation is an object of historic and scientific
interest in need of protection under 54 U.S.C. 320301; and

     WHEREAS, I find that there are threats to the objects identified in
this proclamation, and in the absence of a reservation under the
Antiquities Act, the objects identified in this proclamation are not
adequately protected by applicable law or administrative designations,
thus making a national monument designation and reservation necessary to
protect the objects of historic and scientific interest in the Avi Kwa
Ame landscape for current and future generations; and

     WHEREAS, I find that the boundaries of the monument reserved by
this proclamation represent the smallest area compatible with the
protection of the objects of scientific or historic interest as required
by the Antiquities Act; and

     WHEREAS, it is in the public interest to ensure the preservation,
restoration, and protection of the objects of scientific and historic
interest on the Avi Kwa Ame lands, including the entire monument
landscape, reserved within the Avi Kwa Ame boundary;

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by the authority vested in me by section 320301 of
title 54, United States Code, hereby proclaim the objects identified
above that are situated upon lands and interests in lands owned or
controlled by the Federal Government to be the Avi Kwa Ame National
Monument (monument) and, for the purpose of protecting those objects,
reserve as part thereof all lands and interests in lands owned or
controlled by the Federal Government within the boundaries described on
the accompanying map, which is attached hereto and forms a part of this
proclamation.  These reserved Federal lands and interests in lands
encompass approximately 506,814 acres.  Due to the distribution of the
objects of the types identified in this proclamation across the Avi Kwa
Ame landscape, and because the landscape itself is an object in need of
protection, to confine the boundaries of the monument to the smallest
area compatible with the proper care and management of the objects of
historic or scientific interest requires the reservation of the entire
area described on the accompanying map.

     All Federal lands and interests in lands within the boundaries of
the monument are hereby appropriated and withdrawn from all forms of
entry, location, selection, sale, or other disposition under the public
land laws, from location, entry, and patent under the mining laws, and
from disposition under all laws relating to mineral and geothermal
leasing, other than by exchange that furthers the protective purposes of
the monument.

     This proclamation is subject to valid existing rights.  If the
Federal Government subsequently acquires any lands or interests in lands
not owned or controlled by the Federal Government within the boundaries
described on the accompanying map, such lands and interests in lands
shall be reserved as a part of the monument, and objects of the type
identified above that are situated upon those lands and interests in
lands shall be part of the monument, upon acquisition of ownership or
control by the Federal Government.

     The Secretary of the Interior (Secretary) shall manage the
monument, pursuant to applicable legal authorities, through the BLM, as
a unit of the National Landscape Conservation System, and through the
National Park Service (NPS), in accordance with the terms, conditions,
and management direction provided by this proclamation.  The NPS and the
BLM shall manage the monument cooperatively and shall prepare an
agreement to share, consistent with applicable laws, whatever resources
are necessary to properly manage the monument; however, the NPS shall
continue to have primary management authority over the portion of the
monument within the Lake Mead National Recreation Area, and the BLM
shall have primary management authority over the remaining portion of
the monument.  After issuance of this proclamation, the Secretary shall,
consistent with applicable legal authorities, transfer administrative
jurisdiction of lands managed by the Bureau of Reclamation within the
boundaries of the monument to the BLM.

     For purposes of protecting and restoring the objects identified
above, the Secretary shall prepare and maintain a monument management
plan (management plan).  In preparing the management plan, the Secretary
shall take into account, to the maximum extent practicable, maintaining
the undeveloped character of the lands within the monument, minimizing
impacts from surface-disturbing activities, providing appropriate access
for hunting and wildlife management, and emphasizing the retention of
natural quiet, dark night skies, and visual resources.  The Secretary
shall provide for maximum public involvement in the development of the
management plan, including consultation with federally recognized Tribal
Nations and State and local governments.  In the development and
implementation of the management plan, the Secretary shall maximize
opportunities, pursuant to applicable legal authorities, for shared
resources, operational efficiency, and cooperation.

     The Secretary, through the BLM, shall establish and maintain an
advisory committee under the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C.
App.) with the specific purpose of providing information and advice
regarding the development of the management plan and management of the
monument.  This advisory committee shall consist of a fair and balanced
representation of interested stakeholders.  A majority of the membership
shall be made up of members of Tribal Nations with a historical
connection to the lands within the monument, with the remaining members
representing local governmental entities, recreational users,
conservation organizations, wildlife or hunting organizations, the
scientific community, business owners, and local citizens.

     In recognition of the importance of Tribal participation in the
care and management of the objects identified above, and to ensure that
management decisions affecting the monument are informed by and reflect
Tribal expertise and Indigenous Knowledge, the Secretary shall
meaningfully engage the Tribal Nations with historical and spiritual
connections to the monument lands in the development of the management
plan and management of the monument.  The Secretary shall enter into a
memorandum of understanding with interested Tribal Nations to set forth
terms, pursuant to applicable laws, regulations, and policies,
for co-stewardship of the monument.

     Nothing in this proclamation shall be deemed to enlarge or diminish
the rights or jurisdiction of any Tribal Nation.  The Secretary shall,
to the maximum extent permitted by law and in consultation with Tribal
Nations, ensure the protection of sacred sites and cultural properties
and sites in the monument and provide access to Tribal members for
traditional cultural, spiritual, and customary uses, consistent with the
American Indian Religious Freedom Act (42 U.S.C. 1996), Executive Order
13007 of May 24, 1996 (Indian Sacred Sites), and the November 10, 2021,
Memorandum of Understanding Regarding Interagency Coordination and
Collaboration for the Protection of Indigenous Sacred Sites.  Such uses
shall include collection of medicines, berries and other vegetation,
forest products, and firewood for personal noncommercial use so long as
each use is carried out in a manner consistent with the proper care and
management of the objects identified above.

     Livestock grazing has not been permitted in the monument area since
2006, and the Secretary shall not issue any new grazing permits or
leases on such lands.

     Nothing in this proclamation shall be construed to preclude the
renewal or assignment of, or interfere with the operation, maintenance,
replacement, modification, upgrade, or access to, existing flood
control, utility, pipeline, and telecommunications facilities; roads or
highway corridors; seismic monitoring facilities; or other water
infrastructure, including wildlife water developments or water district
facilities, within or adjacent to an existing authorization boundary.
 Existing flood control, utility, pipeline, telecommunications, and
seismic monitoring facilities, and other water infrastructure, including
wildlife water developments or water district facilities, may be
expanded, and new facilities of such kind may be constructed, to the
extent consistent with the proper care and management of the objects
identified above and subject to the Secretary’s authorities and other
applicable law.

     For purposes of protecting and restoring the objects identified
above, the Secretary shall prepare a transportation plan that designates
the roads and trails on which motorized and non-motorized mechanized
vehicle use will be allowed.  Except for emergency or authorized
administrative purposes, including appropriate wildlife management,
motorized vehicle use in the monument shall be permitted only on roads
and trails documented as existing as of the date of this proclamation.
 Any additional roads or trails designated for motorized vehicle use
must be designated only for the purposes of public safety needs or
protection of the objects identified above.  The Secretary shall monitor
motorized and non-motorized mechanized vehicle use and designated roads
and trails to ensure proper care and management of monument objects.  

     To further the protection of the monument, the Secretary shall
evaluate opportunities to work with local communities to locate and
develop a visitor center or other visitor information facilities to
enhance public services and promote management efficiencies.

     Nothing in this proclamation shall preclude low-level overflights
of military aircraft, the designation of new units of special use
airspace, or the use or establishment of military flight training routes
over the lands reserved by this proclamation.  Nothing in this
proclamation shall preclude air or ground access to existing or new
electronic tracking communications sites associated with the special use
airspace and military training routes.

     So long as carried out in a manner consistent with the proper care
and management of the objects identified above, nothing in this
proclamation shall preclude the safe and efficient operation of
airplanes over the lands reserved by this proclamation.

     Nothing in this proclamation shall be deemed to enlarge or diminish
the jurisdiction of the State of Nevada (State), including its
jurisdiction and authority with respect to fish and wildlife management,
including hunting on Federal lands.  The Secretary shall seek to
continue collaborating with the State on wildlife management and shall
expeditiously explore entering into a memorandum of understanding, or
amending an existing memorandum of understanding, with the State to
facilitate such collaboration.

     Nothing in this proclamation alters, modifies, or amends the Clark
County Multi-Species Habitat Conservation Plan.

     If any provision of this proclamation, including its application to
a particular parcel of land, is held to be invalid, the remainder of
this proclamation and its application to other parcels of land shall not
be affected thereby.

     Nothing in this proclamation shall be deemed to revoke any existing
withdrawal, reservation, or appropriation; however, the monument shall
be the dominant reservation.

     Warning is hereby given to all unauthorized persons not to
appropriate, injure, destroy, or remove any feature of the monument and
not to locate or settle upon any of the lands thereof.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
twenty-first day of March, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-three, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-seventh.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
