---
date: '2023-03-31'
modified_time: 2023-03-31 11:40:42-04:00
published_time: 2023-03-31 11:40:41-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/03/31/a-proclamation-on-month-of-the-military-child-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Month of the Military Child,\_2023"
---
 
     This month, we honor the over 2 million children of our service
members and veterans, whose support and sacrifice help keep our military
strong and our Nation secure.  These young Americans already understand
what it means to serve, shouldering the unique demands of military life
with courage and tenacity.

     Whenever the First Lady and I meet with military children, we
are amazed by their strength and selflessness.  Most of these young
patriots uproot their lives every few years — starting at new schools,
making new friends, and learning new cultures and customs in different
corners of the country and around the globe.  They often celebrate
birthdays and holidays with an empty seat at the dinner table.  Many
have marked graduations without one of their biggest fans in the crowd. 
So often, these children serve as Hidden Helpers, becoming caregivers
for their wounded, ill, or injured loved ones — and far too many have
grown up with the enduring grief of having lost a parent. 

     As a Nation, we have many obligations, but we have only one truly
sacred obligation:  to prepare our troops we send into harm’s way and to
care for them and their families while they are deployed and when they
return home.  Our military-connected children are at the heart of this
sacred obligation. My Administration is stepping up to meet this
obligation.  We have expanded the Military Parental Leave Program, which
enables service members to spend needed time with their families
following a child’s birth, adoption, or placement for long-term foster
care.  Through the Joining Forces initiative, the First Lady is leading
our efforts to support military-connected children in their classrooms
and help ease the burdens created by the highly mobile military
lifestyle.  We are also investing to provide their parents with access
to affordable, quality child care.  

     The English poet John Milton once wrote, “They also serve who only
stand and wait.”  Every day, military-connected children stand tall with
pride for their parents and our Nation.  They make sacrifices — big and
small — so their parents can continue to serve and protect this
country.  These young people represent the very best of America, and we
will always be grateful for their service to our Nation.  May God bless
our troops and their families, caregivers, and survivors.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim April
2023 as the Month of the Military Child.  I call upon the people of the
United States to honor the children of our service members and veterans
with appropriate ceremonies and activities.  I also encourage Americans
everywhere to find ways to support military-connected children,
including by wearing purple during the month of April in honor of their
service.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first
day of March, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh.

                                JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
