---
date: '2023-03-31'
modified_time: 2023-03-31 11:58:41-04:00
published_time: 2023-03-31 11:58:40-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/03/31/a-proclamation-on-education-and-sharing-day-usa-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Education And Sharing Day, USA,\_2023"
---
 
    On Education and Sharing Day, we honor the memory of the Lubavitcher
Rebbe, Rabbi Menachem Mendel Schneerson, who devoted his life to
outreach and teaching — building bridges, challenging us to grow, and
championing tolerance and learning.

     Forced to flee Nazi-occupied Europe during World War II, the Rebbe
witnessed some of history’s darkest moments.  But his faith and a
lifetime of study had already taught him that education is both the
antidote to hate and the cornerstone of humanity as a whole.  From
Brooklyn, he turned pain into purpose and built a global movement
devoted to education, fellowship, and healing.  His work established
schools and community institutions dedicated to helping people reach
their full potential.  He offered guidance to Presidents and celebrated
the rich diversity of our Nation, advocating throughout for compassion
and learning.  Education, he once said, should not just be about
training individuals to earn a living, but it should also be about
making a better living for society as a whole.  Instructors should not
just teach; they should teach justice.  Students should not only learn
but also build character.

     My Administration has stood firm in defending the core values that
the Rebbe championed and that we all share as Americans — the idea that
everyone is created equal and must be treated with dignity and respect
throughout their lives.  We are committed to stamping out intolerance,
so nothing stops children from learning and no one is denied the promise
of America.  In this country, hate will never prevail.

     The Rebbe told us, “We must translate pain into action and tears
into growth.”  That is what education makes possible.  Children are the
kite strings that hold our national ambitions aloft — everything America
will be tomorrow depends on how we deliver for our young people today. 
So let us remember his teachings.  Let us prepare our children to be
tolerant, curious, and moral, ensuring that they lift up others as they
rise.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim April
2, 2023, as Education and Sharing Day, USA.  I call upon all government
officials, educators, volunteers, and all the people of the United
States to observe this day with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and
activities.  
  
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first
day of March, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh.

                                JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
