---
date: '2023-03-17'
published_time: 2023-03-17 12:01:05-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/03/17/a-proclamation-on-national-poison-prevention-week-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Poison Prevention Week,\_2023"
---
 
     Each year, Americans report more than 2 million poisoning cases and
tens of thousands of children are treated for poisoning in emergency
rooms after accidentally ingesting dangerous household chemicals.  For
survivors and their families, the experience can be traumatizing and
recovery can be long and difficult.  During National Poison Prevention
Week, we urge every American to take careful steps to keep their loved
ones safe, and we thank the poison control centers across the country
that stand guard, providing lifesaving advice and care around the clock.

     The Congress has worked for decades to protect Americans from
poisonous household products, and President John F. Kennedy issued the
first Presidential Proclamation calling out this threat in 1962.  Today,
that work continues.  Most poisoning cases are accidental and
preventable, often involving children who mistakenly ingest medicines,
batteries, dangerous chemicals found in household cleaning items, hand
sanitizers, or even the liquid nicotine used in e-cigarettes.

     It is essential to store harmful products in child-resistant
packaging, throw away unfinished medicines, and keep other potential
poisons out of the sight and reach of small children.  That is why, last
year, I signed a new law to improve child-resistant closures on consumer
products that use small batteries.  And we need to encourage older
Americans to clearly label their medications or keep them in their
original packaging to avoid dangerous mix-ups.

     We cannot ignore the equally important fact that Americans are
being poisoned by illegal synthetic opioids, including highly toxic
fentanyl, sometimes even on their first use.  More than 107,000
Americans lost their lives to a drug overdose or poisoning in 2021.  My
National Drug Control Strategy takes aggressive action to disrupt supply
and to expand access to lifesaving naloxone, treatments, and recovery
services while also investing in prevention.

     Anyone who thinks that someone, including themselves, has been
poisoned should immediately call the National Poison Control help line
at 800-222-1222 to be connected to a local poison control center. 
Trained experts, including doctors, nurses, and pharmacists, are ready
to offer real-time help and can often solve a poisoning emergency over
the phone.  Learn more about their lifesaving services at
poisonhelp.hrsa.gov.

     To encourage Americans to learn more about the dangers of
unintentional poisonings and to take appropriate preventive measures, on
September 26, 1961, the United States Congress, by joint resolution (75
Stat. 681), authorized and requested the President to issue a
proclamation designating the third week of March each year as “National
Poison Prevention Week.”

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, do hereby proclaim March 19 through March 25, 2023,
to be National Poison Prevention Week.  I call upon all Americans to
observe this week by taking actions to safeguard their families and
friends from poisonous products, chemicals, and medicines often found in
our homes and to raise awareness of these dangers to prevent accidental
injuries and deaths.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
seventeenth day of March, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-three, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-seventh.

                                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
