---
date: '2023-03-27'
modified_time: 2023-03-27 11:36:19-04:00
published_time: 2023-03-27 12:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/03/27/executive-order-on-prohibition-on-use-by-the-united-states-government-of-commercial-spyware-that-poses-risks-to-national-security/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Executive Order on Prohibition on Use by the United\_States Government of\
  \ Commercial Spyware that Poses Risks to National\_Security"
---
 
     By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and
the laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered as
follows:   
  
    <span style="text-decoration: underline"> Section</span> <span
style="text-decoration: underline">1</span>.  <span
style="text-decoration: underline">Policy</span>.  Technology is central
to the future of our national security, economy, and democracy.  The
United States has fundamental national security and foreign policy
interests in (1) ensuring that technology is developed, deployed, and
governed in accordance with universal human rights; the rule of law; and
appropriate legal authorization, safeguards, and oversight, such that it
supports, and does not undermine, democracy, civil rights and civil
liberties, and public safety; and (2) mitigating, to the greatest extent
possible, the risk emerging technologies may pose to United States
Government institutions, personnel, information, and information
systems.  
  
     To advance these interests, the United States supports the
development of an international technology ecosystem that protects the
integrity of international standards development; enables and promotes
the free flow of data and ideas with trust; protects our security,
privacy, and human rights; and enhances our economic competitiveness. 
The growing exploitation of Americans’ sensitive data and improper use
of surveillance technology, including commercial spyware, threatens the
development of this ecosystem.  Foreign governments and persons have
deployed commercial spyware against United States Government
institutions, personnel, information, and information systems,
presenting significant counterintelligence and security risks to the
United States Government.  Foreign governments and persons have also
used commercial spyware for improper purposes, such as to target and
intimidate perceived opponents; curb dissent; limit freedoms of
expression, peaceful assembly, or association; enable other human rights
abuses or suppression of civil liberties; and track or target United
States persons without proper legal authorization, safeguards, or
oversight.   
  
     The United States has a fundamental national security and foreign
policy interest in countering and preventing the proliferation of
commercial spyware that has been or risks being misused for such
purposes, in light of the core interests of the United States in
protecting United States Government personnel and United States citizens
around the world; upholding and advancing democracy; promoting respect
for human rights; and defending activists, dissidents, and journalists
against threats to their freedom and dignity.  To advance these
interests and promote responsible use of commercial spyware, the United
States must establish robust protections and procedures to ensure that
any United States Government use of commercial spyware helps protect its
information systems and intelligence and law enforcement activities
against significant counterintelligence or security risks; aligns with
its core interests in promoting democracy and democratic values around
the world; and ensures that the United States Government does not
contribute, directly or indirectly, to the proliferation of commercial
spyware that has been misused by foreign governments or facilitate such
misuse.  
  
     Therefore, I hereby establish as the policy of the United States
Government that it shall not make operational use of commercial spyware
that poses significant counterintelligence or security risks to the
United States Government or significant risks of improper use by a
foreign government or foreign person.  In furtherance of the national
security and foreign policy interests of the United States, this order
accordingly directs steps to implement that policy and protect the
safety and security of United States Government institutions, personnel,
information, and information systems; discourage the improper use of
commercial spyware; and encourage the development and implementation of
responsible norms regarding the use of commercial spyware that are
consistent with respect for the rule of law, human rights, and
democratic norms and values.  The actions directed in this order are
consistent with the policy objectives set forth in section 6318 of the
James M. Inhofe National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023
(NDAA FY 2023) (Public Law 117-263) and section 5502 of the National
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2022 (NDAA FY 2022) (Public
Law 117-81).   
  
     <span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>. <span
style="text-decoration: underline">2</span>.  <span
style="text-decoration: underline">Prohibition on Operational
Use</span>.  (a)  Executive departments and agencies (agencies) shall
not make operational use of commercial spyware where they determine,
based on credible information, that such use poses significant
counterintelligence or security risks to the United States Government or
that the commercial spyware poses significant risks of improper use by a
foreign government or foreign person.  For the purposes of this use
prohibition:  
  
          (i)    Commercial spyware may pose counterintelligence or
security risks to the United States Government when:  
  
               (A)  a foreign government or foreign person has used or
acquired the commercial spyware to gain or attempt to gain access to
United States Government computers or the computers of United States
Government personnel without authorization from the United States
Government; or  
  
               (B)  the commercial spyware was or is furnished by an
entity that:  
  
                    (1)  maintains, transfers, or uses data obtained
from the commercial spyware without authorization from the licensed
end-user or the United States Government;  
  
                    (2)  has disclosed or intends to disclose non-public
United States Government information or non-public information about the
activities of the United States Government without authorization from
the United States Government; or  
  
                    (3)  is under the direct or effective control of a
foreign government or foreign person engaged in intelligence activities,
including surveillance or espionage, directed against the United
States.  
  
          (ii)   Commercial spyware may pose risks of improper use by a
foreign government or foreign person when:  
  
               (A)  the commercial spyware, or other commercial spyware
furnished by the same vendor, has been used by a foreign government or
foreign person for any of the following purposes:  
  
                    (1)  to collect information on activists, academics,
journalists, dissidents, political figures, or members of
non-governmental organizations or marginalized communities in order to
intimidate such persons; curb dissent or political opposition; otherwise
limit freedoms of expression, peaceful assembly, or association; or
enable other forms of human rights abuses or suppression of civil
liberties; or  
  
                    (2)  to monitor a United States person, without such
person’s consent, in order to facilitate the tracking or targeting of
the person without proper legal authorization, safeguards, and
oversight; or  
  
               (B)  the commercial spyware was furnished by an entity
that provides commercial spyware to governments for which there are
credible reports in the annual country reports on human rights practices
of the Department of State that they engage in systematic acts of
political repression, including arbitrary arrest or detention, torture,
extrajudicial or politically motivated killing, or other gross
violations of human rights, consistent with any findings by the
Department of State pursuant to section 5502 of the NDAA FY 2022 or
other similar findings.  
  
          (iii)  In determining whether the operational
use of commercial spyware poses significant counterintelligence or
security risks to the United States Government or poses significant
risks of improper use by a foreign government or foreign person, such
that operational use should be prohibited, agencies shall consider,
among other relevant considerations, whether the entity furnishing the
commercial spyware knew or reasonably should have known that the spyware
posed risks described in subsections (a)(i) or (ii) of this section, and
whether the entity has taken appropriate measures to remove such risks,
such as canceling relevant licensing agreements or contracts that
present such risks; taking other verifiable action to prevent continuing
uses that present such risks; or cooperating in United States Government
efforts to counter improper use of the spyware.  
  
     (b)  An agency shall not request or directly enable a third party
to make operational use of commercial spyware where the agency has
determined that such use poses significant counterintelligence or
security risks to the United States Government or that the commercial
spyware poses significant risks of improper use by a foreign government
or foreign person, as described in subsection (a) of this section.  For
purposes of this order, the term “operational use” includes such
indirect use.  
  
     (c)  To facilitate effective interagency coordination of
information relevant to the factors set forth in subsection (a) of this
section and to promote consistency of application of this order across
the United States Government, the Director of National Intelligence
(DNI) shall, within 90 days of the date of this order, and on a
semiannual basis thereafter, issue a classified intelligence assessment
that integrates relevant information — including intelligence, open
source, financial, sanctions-related, and export controls-related
information — on foreign commercial spyware or foreign government or
foreign person use of commercial spyware relevant to the factors set
forth in subsection (a) of this section.  The intelligence assessment
shall incorporate, but not be limited to, the report and assessment
required by section 1102A(b) of the National Security Act of 1947, 50
U.S.C. 3001 *et seq*., as amended by section 6318(c) of the NDAA FY
2023.  In order to facilitate the production of the intelligence
assessment, the head of each agency shall, on an ongoing basis, provide
the DNI all new credible information obtained by the agency on foreign
commercial spyware vendors or foreign government or foreign person use
of commercial spyware relevant to the factors set forth in subsection
(a) of this section.  Such information shall include intelligence, open
source, financial, sanctions-related, export controls-related, and due
diligence information, as well as information relevant to the
development of the list of covered contractors developed or maintained
pursuant to section 5502 of the NDAA FY 2022 or other similar
information.  
  
     (d)  Any agency that makes a determination of whether operational
use of a commercial spyware product is prohibited under subsection (a)
of this section shall provide the results of that determination and key
elements of the underlying analysis to the DNI.  After consulting with
the submitting agency to protect operational sensitivities, the DNI
shall incorporate this information into the intelligence assessment
described in subsection (c) of this section and, as needed, shall make
this information available to other agencies consistent with section
3(b) of this order.   
  
     (e)  The Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs
(APNSA), or a designee, shall, within 30 days of the issuance of the
intelligence assessment described in subsection (c) of this section, and
additionally as the APNSA or designee deems necessary, convene agencies
to discuss the intelligence assessment, as well as any other information
about commercial spyware relevant to the factors set forth in subsection
(a) of this section, in order to ensure effective interagency awareness
and sharing of such information.  
  
     (f)  For any commercial spyware intended by an agency for
operational use, a relevant official, as provided in section 5(k) of
this order, shall certify the determination that the commercial spyware
does not pose significant counterintelligence or security risks to the
United States Government or significant risks of improper use by a
foreign government or foreign person based on the factors set forth in
subsection (a) of this section.  The obligation to certify such a
determination shall not be delegated, except as provided in section 5(k)
of this order.  
  
     (g)  If an agency decides to make operational use of commercial
spyware, the head of the agency shall notify the APNSA of such decision,
describing the due diligence completed before the decision was made,
providing relevant information on the agency’s consideration of the
factors set forth in subsection (a) of this section, and providing the
reasons for the agency’s determination.  The agency may not make
operational use of the commercial spyware until at least 7 days after
providing this information or until the APNSA has notified the agency
that no further process is required.   
  
     (h)  Within 90 days of the issuance of the intelligence assessment
described in subsection (c) of this section, each agency shall review
all existing operational uses of commercial spyware and discontinue, as
soon as the head of the agency determines is reasonably possible without
compromising ongoing operations, operational use of any commercial
spyware that the agency determines poses significant counterintelligence
or security risks to the United States Government or significant risks
of improper use by a foreign government or foreign person, pursuant to
subsection (a) of this section.  
  
     (i)  Within 180 days of the date of this order, each agency that
may make operational use of commercial spyware shall develop appropriate
internal controls and oversight procedures for conducting determinations
under subsection (a) of this section, as appropriate and consistent with
applicable law.  
  
     (j)  At any time after procuring commercial spyware for operational
use, if the agency obtains relevant information with respect to the
factors set forth in subsection (a) of this section, the agency shall
determine whether the commercial spyware poses significant
counterintelligence or security risks to the United States Government or
significant risks of improper use by a foreign government or foreign
person, and, if so, shall terminate such operational use as soon as the
head of the agency determines is reasonably possible without
compromising ongoing operations, and shall notify the DNI and the
APNSA.  
  
     (k)  The Federal Acquisition Security Council shall consider the
intelligence assessment described in subsection (c) of this section in
evaluating whether commercial spyware poses a supply chain risk, as
appropriate and consistent with applicable law, including 41 C.F.R. Part
201-1 and 41 U.S.C. 1323.  
  
     (l)  The prohibitions contained in this section shall not apply to
the use of commercial spyware for purposes of testing, research,
analysis, cybersecurity, or the development of countermeasures for
counterintelligence or security risks, or for purposes of a criminal
investigation arising out of the criminal sale or use of the spyware.  
  
     (m)  A relevant official, as provided in section 5(k) of this
order, may issue a waiver, for a period not to exceed 1 year, of an
operational use prohibition determined pursuant to subsection (a) of
this section if the relevant official determines that such waiver is
necessary due to extraordinary circumstances and that no feasible
alternative is available to address such circumstances.  This authority
shall not be delegated, except as provided in section 5(k) of this
order.  A relevant official may, at any time, revoke any waiver
previously granted.  Within 72 hours of making a determination to issue
or revoke a waiver pursuant to this subsection, the relevant official
who has issued or revoked the waiver shall notify the President, through
the APNSA, of this determination, including the justification for the
determination.  The relevant official shall provide this information
concurrently to the DNI.  
  
     <span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>. <span
style="text-decoration: underline">3</span>.  <span
style="text-decoration: underline">Application to Procurement</span>. 
An agency seeking to procure commercial spyware for any purpose other
than for a criminal investigation arising out of the criminal sale or
use of the spyware shall, prior to making such procurement and
consistent with its existing statutory and regulatory authorities:   
  
     (a)  review the intelligence assessment issued by the DNI pursuant
to section 2(c) of this order;  
  
     (b)  request from the DNI any additional information regarding the
commercial spyware that is relevant to the factors set forth in section
2(a) of this order;  
  
     (c)  consider the factors set forth in section 2(a) of this order
in light of the information provided by the DNI; and  
  
     (d)  consider whether any entity furnishing the commercial spyware
being considered for procurement has implemented reasonable due
diligence procedures and standards — such as the industry-wide norms
reflected in relevant Department of State guidance on business and human
rights and on transactions linked to foreign government end-users for
products or services with surveillance capabilities — and controls that
would enable the entity to identify and prevent uses of the commercial
spyware that pose significant counterintelligence or security risks to
the United States Government or significant risks of improper use by a
foreign government or foreign person.  
  
     <span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>. <span
style="text-decoration: underline">4</span>.  <span
style="text-decoration: underline">Reporting Requirements</span>.  (a) 
The head of each agency that has procured commercial spyware, upon
completing the review described in section 2(h) of this order, shall
submit to the APNSA a report describing the review’s findings.  If the
review identifies any existing operational use of commercial spyware, as
defined in this order, the agency report shall include:  
  
          (i)    a description of such existing operational use;  
  
          (ii)   a determination of whether the commercial spyware poses
significant counterintelligence or security risks to the United States
Government or significant risks of improper use by a foreign government
or foreign person, along with key elements of the underlying analysis,
pursuant to section 2(a) of this order; and  
  
          (iii)  in the event the agency determines that the commercial
spyware poses significant risks pursuant to section 2(a) of this order,
what steps have been taken to terminate its operational use.    
  
     (b)  Within 45 days of an agency’s procurement of any commercial
spyware for any use described in section 2(l) of this order except for
use in a criminal investigation arising out of the criminal sale or use
of the spyware, the head of the agency shall notify the APNSA of such
procurement and shall include in the notification a description of the
purpose and authorized uses of the commercial spyware.  
  
     (c)  Within 6 months of the date of this order, the head of each
agency that has made operational use of commercial spyware or has
procured commercial spyware for operational use shall submit to the
APNSA a report on the actions that the agency has taken to implement
this order, including the internal controls and oversight procedures the
agency has developed pursuant to section 2(i) of this order.  
  
     (d)  Within 1 year of the date of this order, and on an annual
basis thereafter, the head of each agency that has procured commercial
spyware for operational use shall provide the APNSA a report that
identifies:  
  
          (i)    any existing operational use of commercial spyware and
the reasons why it does not pose significant counterintelligence or
security risks to the United States Government or significant risks of
improper use by a foreign government or foreign person, pursuant to
section 2(a) of this order;  
  
          (ii)   any operational use of commercial spyware that was
terminated during the preceding year because it was determined to pose
significant risks pursuant to section 2(a) of this order, the
circumstances under which this determination was made, and the steps
taken to terminate such use; and  
  
          (iii)  any purchases made of commercial spyware, and whether
they were made for operational use, during the preceding year.  
  
     <span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>. <span
style="text-decoration: underline">5</span>.  <span
style="text-decoration: underline">Definitions</span>.  For purposes of
this order:   
  
     (a)  The term “agency” means any authority of the United States
that is an “agency” under 44 U.S.C. 3502(1), other than those considered
to be independent regulatory agencies, as defined in 44 U.S.C.
3502(5).  
  
     (b)  The term “commercial spyware” means any end-to-end software
suite that is furnished for commercial purposes, either directly or
indirectly through a third party or subsidiary, that provides the user
of the software suite the capability to gain remote access to a
computer, without the consent of the user, administrator, or owner of
the computer, in order to:  
  
          (i)    access, collect, exploit, extract, intercept, retrieve,
or transmit content, including information stored on or transmitted
through a computer connected to the Internet;  
  
          (ii)   record the computer’s audio calls or video calls or use
the computer to record audio or video; or  
  
          (iii)  track the location of the computer.  
  
     (c)  The term “computer” shall have the same meaning as it has in
18 U.S.C. 1030(e)(1).  
  
     (d)  The term “entity” means a partnership, association, trust,
joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.  
  
     (e)  The term “foreign entity” means an entity that is not a United
States entity.  
  
     (f)  The term “foreign government” means any national, state,
provincial, or other governing authority, any political party, or any
official of any governing authority or political party, in each case of
a country other than the United States.  
  
     (g)  The term “foreign person” means a person that is not a United
States person.  
  
     (h)  The term “furnish,” when used in connection with commercial
spyware, means to develop, maintain, own, operate, manufacture, market,
sell, resell, broker, lease, license, repackage, rebrand, or otherwise
make available commercial spyware.  
  
     (i)  The term “operational use” means use to gain remote access to
a computer, without the consent of the user, administrator, or owner of
the computer, in order to:  
  
          (i)    access, collect, exploit, extract, intercept, retrieve,
or transmit the computer’s content, including information stored on or
transmitted through a computer connected to the Internet;  
  
          (ii)   record the computer’s audio calls or video calls or use
the computer to otherwise record audio or video; or  
  
          (iii)  track the location of the computer.   
  
     The term “operational use” does not include those uses described in
section 2(l) of this order.  
  
     (j)  The term “person” means an individual or entity.  
  
     (k)  The term “relevant official,” for purposes of sections 2(f)
and 2(m) of this order, refers to any of the following:  the Secretary
of Defense, the Attorney General, the Secretary of Homeland Security,
the DNI, the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency, or the
Director of the National Security Agency.  The Attorney General’s
obligation under section 2(f) of this order and authority under
section 2(m) of this order may be delegated only to the Deputy Attorney
General.  
  
     (l)  The term “remote access,” when used in connection with
commercial spyware, means access to a computer, the computer’s content,
or the computer’s components by using an external network (e.g., the
Internet) when the computer is not in the physical possession of the
actor seeking access to that computer.  
  
     (m)  The term “United States entity” means any entity organized
under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the
United States (including foreign branches).  
  
     (n)  The term “United States person” shall have the same meaning as
it has in Executive Order 12333 of December 4, 1981 (United States
Intelligence Activities), as amended.  
  
     (o)  The term “United States Government personnel” means all United
States Government employees as defined by 5 U.S.C. 2105.  
  
     <span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>. <span
style="text-decoration: underline">6</span>.  <span
style="text-decoration: underline">General Provisions</span>.  (a) 
Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise
affect:   
  
          (i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department
or agency, or the head thereof; or  
  
          (ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of
Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or
legislative proposals.  
  
     (b)  Nothing in this order shall be construed to limit the use of
any remedies available to the head of an agency or any other official of
the United States Government.  
  
     (c)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable
law, including section 6318 of the NDAA FY 2023, as well as applicable
procurement laws, and subject to the availability of appropriations.  
  
     (d)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right
or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity
by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

  
THE WHITE HOUSE,  
   March 27, 2023.
