---
date: '2023-03-24'
published_time: 2023-03-24 11:09:57-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/03/24/a-proclamation-on-greek-independence-day-a-national-day-of-celebration-of-greek-and-american-democracy-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Greek Independence Day: A National Day of Celebration of\
  \ Greek and American Democracy,\_2023"
---
 
     Today, we honor the heroism of Greek revolutionaries who fought for
their independence more than two centuries ago and celebrate the sacred
idea that has always bound our great nations together:  that “we the
people” hold the power to shape our own destinies.

     The story of our shared values and common purpose reaches back to
America’s founding, when ancient Athenian democracy helped inspire the
Framers of our democracy to forge a new system of self-government.  Just
a few decades later, in 1821, when the courageous women and men of
Greece rose up to declare their own independence from the Ottoman
Empire, young patriots from the newly formed United States crossed the
Atlantic to support the Greek fight for freedom.  During World War II,
Greeks and Americans joined together against the forces of fascism,
understanding in their cores that democracy is worth the sacrifice.

     Today, the alliance between Greece and the United States has never
been stronger.  Together, we are deepening our cooperation on climate
and energy, trade and investment, pandemic response, disaster relief,
and so much more to shape a healthier, more prosperous, and more just
world.  In the face of Russia’s brutal aggression against Ukraine,
Greece has once more demonstrated its moral courage and its values —
condemning Russia’s aggression and welcoming Ukrainian refugees.  Every
generation has to defeat democracy’s mortal foes, and together, we will
continue to show the world that the darkness that drives autocracy can
never extinguish the flames of liberty.

     As Greece and the United States meet the future together, the ties
of family and the contributions of Greek Americans continue to
strengthen our partnership at every turn.  Greek Americans are leaders
in every industry and every community, helping build an economy that
works for everyone and working toward greater social justice for all.  I
have been blessed with lifelong friendships and political mentors in the
Greek American community, and I have seen firsthand how Greek culture
and values enrich our American fabric.

     This Greek Independence Day, as we mark 202 years of friendship
between the modern Hellenic Republic and the United States, let us
recommit to defending democracy together – – standing up for the rights,
equality, and dignity of all people.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim March
25, 2023, as Greek Independence Day:  A National Day of Celebration of
Greek and American Democracy.  I call upon the people of the United
States to observe this day with appropriate ceremonies and activities.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-fourth
day of March, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh.

                                JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
