---
date: '2023-03-20'
published_time: 2023-03-20 13:17:25-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/03/20/message-to-the-house-of-representatives-presidents-veto-of-h-j-res-30/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Message to the House of Representatives \u2014 President\u2019s Veto of H.J.\
  \ Res\_30"
---
 
TO THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES:  
  
     I am returning herewith without my approval H.J. Res. 30,
a resolution that would disapprove of the Department of Labor’s final
rule titled “Prudence and Loyalty in Selecting Plan Investments and
Exercising Shareholder Rights.”

     The Department of Labor’s final rule protects the hard‑earned life
savings and pensions of tens of millions of workers and retirees across
the country.  It allows retirement plan fiduciaries to make fully
informed investment decisions by considering all relevant factors that
might impact a prospective investment, while ensuring that investment
decisions made by retirement plan fiduciaries maximize financial returns
for retirees.

     There is extensive evidence showing that environmental, social, and
governance factors can have a material impact on markets, industries,
and businesses.  But the Republican-led resolution would force
retirement managers to ignore these relevant risk factors, disregarding
the principles of free markets and jeopardizing the life savings of
working families and retirees.  In fact, this resolution would prevent
retirement plan fiduciaries from taking into account factors, such as
the physical risks of climate change and poor corporate governance, that
could affect investment returns. 

     Retirement plan fiduciaries should be able to consider any factor
that maximizes financial returns for retirees across the country.  That
is not controversial — that is common sense.  
  
     Therefore, I am vetoing this resolution.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

THE WHITE HOUSE,  
    March 20, 2023.
