---
date: '2023-03-14'
modified_time: 2023-03-14 12:36:59-04:00
published_time: 2023-03-14 12:36:58-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/03/14/executive-order-on-reducing-gun-violence-and-making-our-communities-safer/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Executive Order on Reducing Gun Violence and Making Our Communities\_Safer"
---
 
     By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and
the laws of the United States of America, I hereby order as follows:  
  
     <span style="text-decoration: underline">Section</span> <span
style="text-decoration: underline">1</span>.  <span
style="text-decoration: underline">Policy</span>.  Every few days in the
United States, we mourn a new mass shooting.  Daily acts of gun violence
— including community violence, domestic violence, suicide, and
accidental shootings — may not always make the evening news, but they
too cut lives short and leave survivors and their communities with
long-lasting physical and mental wounds.  We cannot accept these facts
as the enduring reality of life in America.  Instead, we must together
insist that we have had enough, and that we will no longer allow the
interests of the gun manufacturers to win out over the safety of our
children and Nation.  
  
     It is the policy of my Administration that executive departments
and agencies (agencies) will pursue every legally available and
appropriate action to reduce gun violence.  Through this
whole-of-government approach, my Administration has made historic
progress to save lives.  My Administration has taken action to keep guns
out of dangerous hands and especially dangerous weapons off of our
streets; hold gun traffickers and rogue gun dealers accountable; fund
accountable, effective community policing; and invest in community
violence interventions and prevention strategies.  
  
     Last year, I signed into law the Bipartisan Safer Communities Act
(the “Act”), the most significant bipartisan gun safety legislation in
nearly 30 years.  The Act provides communities with new tools to combat
gun violence, including enhanced gun background checks for individuals
under age 21, funding for extreme risk protection orders and other
crisis interventions, and increased mental health resources to help
children impacted by gun violence heal from the resulting grief and
trauma.   
  
     I continue to call on the Congress to take additional action to
reduce gun violence, including by banning assault weapons and
high-capacity magazines, requiring background checks for all gun sales,
requiring safe storage of firearms, funding my comprehensive Safer
America Plan, and expanding community violence intervention and
prevention strategies.  In the meantime, my Administration will continue
to do all that we can, within existing authority, to make our
communities safer.  
  
     <span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>. <span
style="text-decoration: underline">2</span>.  <span
style="text-decoration: underline">Implementation of the Bipartisan
Safer Communities Act</span>.  The Attorney General, the Secretary of
Health and Human Services, the Secretary of Education, and the Secretary
of Homeland Security shall each submit a report to the President within
60 days of the date of this order describing what actions their
respective agencies have taken to implement the Act, data and analysis
regarding the use and early effects of the Act, and additional steps
their respective agencies will take to maximize the benefits of the Act.
 These reports shall include a plan for increasing public awareness and
use of resources made available by the Act.  
  
     <span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>. <span
style="text-decoration: underline">3</span>.  <span
style="text-decoration: underline">Additional Agency Actions to Reduce
Gun Violence</span>.  (a)  The Attorney General shall develop and
implement a plan to:  
  
          (i)    clarify the definition of who is engaged in the
business of dealing in firearms, and thus required to become Federal
firearms licensees (FFLs), in order to increase compliance with the
Federal background check requirement for firearm sales, including by
considering a rulemaking, as appropriate and consistent with applicable
law;  
  
          (ii)   prevent former FFLs whose licenses have been revoked or
surrendered from continuing to engage in the business of dealing in
firearms;  
  
          (iii)  publicly release, to the fullest extent permissible by
law, inspection reports of FFL dealers cited for violations of the law;
and  
  
          (iv)   support efforts to modernize and make permanent the
Undetectable Firearms Act (18 U.S.C. 922(p)).  
  
     (b)  The Secretary of Defense; the Attorney General; the Secretary
of Homeland Security; the Secretary of Health and Human Services,
including through the Surgeon General of the United States; the
Secretary of Education; and the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall
expand existing Federal campaigns and other efforts to promote safe
storage of firearms.  
  
     (c)  The Secretary of Defense; the Attorney General; the Secretary
of Homeland Security; the Secretary of Health and Human Services,
including through the Surgeon General of the United States; and the
Secretary of Education shall undertake efforts to encourage effective
use of extreme risk protection orders (“red flag” laws), partnering with
law enforcement, health care providers, educators, and other community
leaders.  
  
     (d)  The Attorney General; the Secretary of Health and Human
Services, including through the Surgeon General of the United States;
the Secretary of Education; the Secretary of Homeland Security; the
Director of the Office of Management and Budget; and the heads of other
agencies, as appropriate, shall develop a proposal for the President,
and submit it no later than September 15, 2023, on how the Federal
Government can better support the recovery, mental health, and other
needs of survivors of gun violence, families of victims and survivors of
gun violence, first responders to incidents of gun violence, and
communities affected by gun violence.  The proposal should draw on
existing evidence, where available, and take into account how to address
needs in both the immediate aftermath of mass shootings and in the years
following such events.  The proposal should recommend any additional
executive branch coordination and additional resources or authorities
from the Congress needed to implement the proposal, as well as how
agencies will assess the outcomes for the activities implemented.  
  
     (e)  The Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Attorney
General and the Secretary of Homeland Security, shall develop and
implement principles to further firearm and public safety practices
through the Department of Defense’s acquisition of firearms, consistent
with applicable law.  
  
     (f)  The heads of Federal law enforcement agencies shall, as soon
as practicable, but no later than 180 days from the date of this order,
ensure that their respective law enforcement components issue National
Integrated Ballistic Information Network (NIBIN) submission and
utilization policies with requirements that are equivalent to, or
exceed, the requirements of the policy issued by the Department of
Justice on December 12, 2022, to ensure the prompt entry of ballistics
data recovered in connection with criminal investigations into NIBIN.
 In consultation with the Department of Justice, the Department of
Defense policies may be tailored to address specific operational
considerations.  
  
     (g)  The Secretary of Transportation, in consultation with the
Department of Justice, shall work to reduce the loss or theft of
firearms during shipment between FFLs and to improve reporting of such
losses or thefts, including by engaging with carriers and shippers.  
  
     (h)  The Federal Trade Commission is encouraged to issue a public
report analyzing how gun manufacturers market firearms to minors and how
such manufacturers market firearms to civilians, including through the
use of military imagery.  
  
     <span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>. <span
style="text-decoration: underline">4</span>.  <span
style="text-decoration: underline">Definitions</span>.  For purposes of
this order, the term “Federal law enforcement agency” means an
organizational unit or subunit of the executive branch that employs
officers who are authorized to make arrests and carry firearms, and that
is responsible for the prevention, detection, and investigation of crime
or the apprehension of alleged offenders.  The term “heads of Federal
law enforcement agencies” means the heads of those units or subunits.  
  
     <span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>. <span
style="text-decoration: underline">5</span>.  <span
style="text-decoration: underline">General Provisions</span>.  (a)
 Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise
affect:  
  
          (i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department
or agency, or the head thereof; or  
  
          (ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of
Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or
legislative proposals.  
  
     (b)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.  
  
     (c)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right
or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity
by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

  
THE WHITE HOUSE,  
   March 14, 2023.
