---
date: '2023-03-21'
modified_time: 2023-03-23 16:07:30-04:00
published_time: 2023-03-21 13:15:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/03/21/a-proclamation-on-the-establishment-of-the-castner-range-national-monument-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation Establishing the Castner Range National\_Monument"
---
 
     Each year, as winter gives way to spring, Mexican Gold Poppies
burst into bloom, transforming the undeveloped desert plains and hills
of Castner Range into a sea of vibrant yellows, oranges, and reds framed
by the rugged mountains and azure blue sky.  Visitors from across the
Nation come to witness this natural wonder, and families from local
communities gather to mark quinceañeras, weddings, and other special
occasions with this colorful tableau as backdrop.  Located on Fort Bliss
near the heart of El Paso, Texas, Castner Range — stretching from the
heights of the Franklin Mountains, eastward across canyons and arroyos,
and descending to lower elevation plains of the Chihuahuan Desert —
serves as a testament to the modernization of the American military and
the military service members who trained there from 1926 to 1966.  In
addition to containing evidence of Castner Range’s important historical
role in our Nation’s national defense, Castner Range hosts significant
archeological sites documenting the history of the Tribal Nations that
inhabited the area since time immemorial, rare plant and animal habitat,
and unique geological features.  Once it is safe for public access
following remediation of military munitions and munitions constituents,
Castner Range will become a natural classroom offering unique
opportunities to experience, explore, and learn from nature in a unique
setting that is close to a major urban center.  Access to nature is
particularly important for underserved communities, like those bordering
Castner Range, that have historically had less access to our public
lands.  Castner Range will also provide opportunities for important
research on archeological sites, plant and animal communities, and
geological features in areas that have been inaccessible for many
decades.

     The Department of the Army acquired Castner Range in the 1920s and
1930s, and with the establishment of an Anti-Aircraft Training Center in
1940, Castner Range — and Fort Bliss more broadly — became the largest
overland air defense missile range and training center in the world.  In
1945, Fort Bliss became home to the 1st Anti-aircraft Guided Missile
Battalion, the first missile battalion in Army history.  In 1948, the
Army established the 1st Guided Missile Regiment at Fort Bliss, which
later became the 1st Guided Missile Brigade.  This unique component
trained at Castner Range and provided skills to the Army as it
transitioned into the era of modern guided-missile warfare.  In the
1960s, a training area known as the “Vietnam Village” was constructed
and used for close combat exercises, but military training on Castner
Range largely ended in 1966.  As a result of the cessation of military
activities, much of this rugged landscape has since been reclaimed by
nature.

     Archeologists have identified 41 archeological sites within Castner
Range despite access restrictions due to remaining munitions in the
area.  Some of these sites are culturally important to Tribal Nations
and Indigenous Peoples — including Apache and Pueblo peoples and the
Comanche Nation, Hopi Tribe, and Kiowa Indian Tribe of Oklahoma — and
provide evidence of Indigenous Peoples’ presence in the area from at
least 6,000 B.C.  Three of those sites — the Fusselman Canyon Rock Art
District, the Northgate Site, and the Castner Range Archeological
District — are listed in the National Register of Historic Places.

     Within Castner Range, there is a site that contains rock art from
around 1350 A.D. depicting animal footprints, geometric designs, a human
handprint, and a bird’s head.  Pottery and arrow shaft straighteners
have also been found in the area.  Another site includes several rock
shelters, a shallow cave, bedrock mortars, and rock art, which is
visible on the overhangs and undersides of fallen and stacked granitic
boulders.  Similarities between the rock art in this area and rock art
found in Hueco Tanks State Park to the east and at sites in Mexico
provide evidence of interactions among the ancient Indigenous Peoples in
the region.  Elsewhere within Castner Range, evidence of occupation from
approximately 250 to 1500 A.D. includes burial sites, roasting pits, a
pit house, ceramics, and other artifacts.  Initial investigations in
another area within Castner Range have uncovered evidence of occupation
between 900 B.C. and 1400 A.D., including rock art, fire pits, pottery,
bedrock mortars, and lithic scatters.  Additional opportunities to study
these sites and potentially identify new sites will become available as
closed areas are opened to researchers and Tribal Nations are consulted
or otherwise engaged in relevant approval processes, providing new
insights into the history of Indigenous Peoples in the area.

     The area also contains the World War II-era Anti-Mechanized Target
Firing Range, which was built by the Army in 1940 and is eligible for
listing in the National Register of Historic Places due to its
significance to military history.  This firing range was used as a
high-speed anti-tank weapons training course to provide soldiers with
essential training in preparation for combat in World War II.  Today the
foundations and other remnants stand as a physical reminder of this
pivotal moment in world history.  

     Evidence of mining that occurred before the Army’s acquisition of
Castner Range can be found at the El Paso Tin Mine site, which is also
eligible for listing in the National Register of Historical Places and
contains the remains of a tin mine briefly in operation at the turn of
the 20th Century.  As World War II drove a surge in the demand for tin,
the mine reopened briefly in 1942, but the lack of abundant tin caused
the mine to close again shortly thereafter.

     Although completely contained within the city limits of El Paso,
Castner Range is undeveloped due to its history of military use and,
following the cessation of live fire exercises more than half a century
ago, Castner Range has reverted to a state that is representative of the
natural Chihuahuan ecosystem of the region.  Indian Springs, Cottonwood
Springs, Mundy Springs, and Whispering Springs provide sources of water
and rare habitat for wildlife in this harsh desert ecosystem.  The area
also provides habitat for a large and diverse array of Chihuahuan Desert
plants, birds, and mammals.  The United States Fish and Wildlife Service
has indicated that habitat is likely to exist for the American peregrine
falcon, Mountain plover, Golden eagle, Texas horned lizard, black-tailed
prairie dog, Baird’s sparrow, Western burrowing owl, Franklin Mountains
talussnail, Alamo beard tongue, Sand prickly pear, Desert night-blooming
cereus, and the endangered Sneed pincushion cactus.  Golden eagles and
Western burrowing owls, for example, have been observed at Castner
Range.

     Castner Range also contains undeveloped geological resources.  The
Franklin Mountains and various landslide blocks along the eastern front
of the mountains define the topography of the highest elevations of
Castner Range.  Over time, erosional events exposing the Red Bluff
Granite followed by the deposition of the Bliss Sandstone have resulted
in a geologic feature known as an unconformity.  The Castner Limestone
formation of the mid-elevation foothills is the oldest rock in the El
Paso area and contains abundant, well-preserved, and ancient Precambrian
fossilized algae.  Two specimens were closely examined in 1958 and were
identified as *Oollenia frequens*.  It is expected that future research
will identify other specimens once access becomes possible.  On the
desert floor of the lower elevations and emanating from Fusselman Canyon
and similar mountain canyons, Castner Range contains the Franklin
Mountains’ only remaining undeveloped alluvial fans — broad, sloping
triangular areas created when rapidly moving water descending through
canyons emerges onto the desert floor and deposits eroded material.

     WHEREAS, section 320301 of title 54, United States Code (the
“Antiquities Act”), authorizes the President, in his discretion, to
declare by public proclamation historic landmarks, historic and
prehistoric structures, and other objects of historic or scientific
interest that are situated upon the lands owned or controlled by the
Federal Government to be national monuments, and to reserve as a part
thereof parcels of land, the limits of which shall be confined to the
smallest area compatible with the proper care and management of the
objects to be protected; and

     WHEREAS, I find that Castner Range contains significant
archeological and paleontological resources, rare and fragile biological
and ecological resources, and unique geological features that are of
scientific interest; and

     WHEREAS, I find that Castner Range contains sites of cultural
significance to Tribal Nations and Indigenous Peoples; and

     WHEREAS, I find that Castner Range is an important part of the
history of Native Americans and the United States military; and

     WHEREAS, I find it is in the public interest to preserve and
protect the objects of scientific and historic interest located within
Castner Range; and

     WHEREAS, I find that each of the objects identified above, and
those of the same sort that may not be expressly identified in this
proclamation, are objects of historic or scientific interest in need of
protection under 54 U.S.C. 320301; and

     WHEREAS, I find that there are threats to the objects identified in
this proclamation and that a national monument reservation is necessary
to protect the land along with its objects of historic and scientific
interest within Castner Range for current and future generations; and

     WHEREAS, I find that the boundaries of the monument reserved by
this proclamation represent the smallest area compatible with the proper
care and management of the objects of scientific or historic interest to
be protected by the Antiquities Act;

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by the authority vested in me by section 320301 of
title 54, United States Code, hereby proclaim the objects identified
above that are situated upon lands and interests in lands owned or
controlled by the Federal Government to be the Castner Range National
Monument (monument) and, for the purpose of protecting those objects,
reserve as part thereof all lands and interests in lands owned or
controlled by the Federal Government within the boundaries described on
the accompanying map, which is attached hereto and forms a part of this
proclamation.  These reserved Federal lands and interests in lands
encompass approximately 6,672 acres.

     All Federal lands and interests in lands within the boundaries of
the monument are hereby appropriated and withdrawn from all forms of
entry, location, selection, sale, or other disposition under the public
land laws or laws applicable to the Department of the Army, including
withdrawal from location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; from
disposition under all laws relating to mineral, solar, and geothermal
leasing; and from conveyance under section 2844 of the National Defense
Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2013.

     The Secretary of the Army (Secretary) shall manage the monument
pursuant to applicable legal authorities, including section 2846 of the
NDAA for Fiscal Year 2018, and in accordance with the terms, conditions,
and management direction provided by this proclamation.  The Secretary
shall prepare, in consultation with the Secretary of the Interior, a
management plan for the monument, which shall include access for outdoor
recreational opportunities as well as historic and scientific research
at a time and in a manner determined by the Secretary (considering
ongoing and future remediation of hazardous substances or munitions, any
needed controls to ensure explosives safety, and other limitations
provided in law), consistent with the proper care and management of the
objects identified above.  The Secretary shall promulgate such
regulations for management of the monument as the Secretary deems
appropriate.  The Secretary shall provide for maximum public involvement
in the development of the management plan, including consultation with
federally recognized Tribal Nations, State and local governments, and
interested stakeholders.  The final decision over any management plan
and regulations rests with the Secretary.

     The Secretary shall expeditiously conduct military munitions
response actions at Castner Range in accordance with the Comprehensive
Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, as
amended (42 U.S.C. 9615 *et seq.*), and section 2846 of the NDAA for
Fiscal Year 2018, and shall conduct response actions in a phased manner
that allows for public access to areas of the monument when and under
the conditions necessary to protect human health and safety.  Nothing in
this proclamation shall affect the responsibilities and authorities of
the Department of Defense under applicable environmental laws within the
monument boundaries.  Nothing in this proclamation shall affect the
Secretary’s ability to authorize access to and remediation of
contaminated lands within the monument.

     The Secretary shall, to the maximum extent permitted by law and in
consultation with Tribal Nations, ensure the protection of sacred sites
and traditional cultural properties and sites in the monument and
provide access to Tribal members for traditional cultural, spiritual and
customary uses, consistent with the American Indian Religious Freedom
Act, 42 U.S.C. 1996, and Executive Order 13007 of May 24, 1996 (Indian
Sacred Sites).  Such uses shall include allowing collection of
medicines, berries and other vegetation, forest products, and firewood
for personal non-commercial use in a manner consistent with the proper
care and management of the objects identified herein, and in
consideration of the presence of military munitions and munitions
constituents.

    In recognition of the importance of these lands and objects to
Tribal Nations, and to ensure that management decisions affecting the
monument reflect Tribal expertise and Indigenous Knowledge, the
Secretary shall meaningfully engage with Tribal Nations with cultural
ties to the area to develop the management plan and to inform subsequent
management of the monument.

     The establishment of this monument is subject to valid existing
rights, including valid water rights. Consistent with the proper care
and management of the objects identified above, nothing in this
proclamation shall be construed to preclude the renewal or assignment
of, or interfere with the operation, maintenance, replacement,
modification, or upgrade of, existing water infrastructure, including
flood control, pipeline, or other water management infrastructure; State
highway corridors rights-of-way; or existing utility and
telecommunications rights-of-way or facilities within or adjacent to the
boundaries of existing authorizations within the monument.

     Nothing in this proclamation shall preclude low-level overflights
of military aircraft, flight testing or evaluation, the designation of
new units of special use airspace, or the use or establishment of
military flight training routes or transportation over the lands
reserved by this proclamation.

     Nothing in this proclamation shall be deemed to enlarge or diminish
the jurisdiction of the State of Texas with respect to fish and wildlife
management.  Nothing in this proclamation shall be deemed to enlarge or
diminish the rights or jurisdiction of any Tribal Nation.

     Nothing in this proclamation shall be construed to alter the
authority or responsibility of any party with respect to emergency
response activities within the monument, including wildland fire
response or search and rescue operations.

     Nothing in this proclamation shall be deemed to revoke any existing
withdrawal, reservation, or appropriation; however, the national
monument shall be the dominant reservation.

     Warning is hereby given to all unauthorized persons not to
appropriate, injure, destroy, or remove any feature of the monument and
not to locate or settle upon any of the lands thereof.

     If any provision of this proclamation, including application to a
particular parcel of land, is held to be invalid, the remainder of this
proclamation and its application to other parcels of land shall not be
affected thereby.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-first
day of March, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
