---
date: '2023-03-31'
published_time: 2023-03-31 11:52:12-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/03/31/a-proclamation-on-national-child-abuse-prevention-month-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Child Abuse Prevention Month,\_2023"
---
 
     During National Child Abuse Prevention Month, we want every young
person in the United States who has faced the fear and pain of abuse or
neglect to know they are not alone.  We see you and will always fight to
protect your safety and well-being.  We reaffirm our commitment to
listening to children, standing with brave survivors, and reaching out
across our communities to support families and to help others in need.

     I was raised to believe that the greatest sin in life is the abuse
of power, and the abuse of a woman or child is the worst of all.  Yet
millions of children of every race, religion, and background face
neglect or physical, emotional, or sexual abuse in America every year.
 It can leave deep, lasting scars, making it harder to learn in school,
to form trusting relationships, to build self-esteem, and to escape
cycles of abuse long-term.  It denies far too many children the promise
of America and risks cutting them off from their dreams and undermining
their ability to reach their full potential.

     We have a moral obligation to protect every child in America and to
help survivors heal.  That is why, as a United States Senator, I wrote
and passed the Violence Against Women Act, to help secure safety and
justice for women and children impacted by domestic violence.  We have
fought ever since to keep building on that law — including with last
year’s bipartisan reauthorization, which increased support for
prevention, trauma-informed services, and training for courts while also
expanding recognition of Tribal courts’ jurisdiction in cases involving
non-Native perpetrators of child abuse.  As President, I also signed the
American Rescue Plan, investing an additional $350 million to improve
State child protective services and community-based child abuse
prevention programs.  The Department of Justice is providing resources
to Children’s Advocacy Centers across the country that support child
abuse victims by supporting law enforcement efforts to investigate and
prosecute child abuse and funding law enforcement task forces to combat
online child exploitation.  I also signed legislation eliminating the
Federal statute of limitations for child sex abuse crimes so justice can
still be done even after survivors become adults.  And we are helping
State and territorial health departments prevent sexual violence and
provide trauma-informed training to support recovery among the 1 in 4
girls and 1 in 13 boys who will face sexual abuse before they turn 18.

     To support our children, we are continuing our efforts to reduce
child poverty across the board, including by fighting to restore the
Child Tax Credit, which in 2021 helped slash child poverty to its lowest
rate ever.  We know that poverty can trigger interventions in which
children are sometimes unnecessarily removed from their homes.  My new
budget requests $10 billion to help keep families safely together and to
better fund child abuse prevention and treatment services.

     Meanwhile, a dangerous wave of cynical State investigations is
targeting families just because they love and support their transgender
children.  These State campaigns are government overreach at its worst.
 From the Department of Justice to the Department of Health and Human
Services, my Administration will keep working to make sure that
politicians do not unlawfully weaponize child protective services
against loving families who simply want to support their kids and help
them to be themselves.

     It has been said that a Nation is judged by how we treat the most
vulnerable among us.  Nowhere is that truer than when it comes to
protecting our children, making sure they grow up safe from harm and
surrounded by love.  That is on all of us.  For more information on how
to recognize and report child abuse or neglect, as well as on how to
support loving families and safe communities, visit childwelfare.gov.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim April
2023 as National Child Abuse Prevention Month.  I call upon all
Americans to observe this month by joining together as a Nation to
promote the safety and well-being of all children and families and to
recognize the child-welfare professionals and allies who work tirelessly
to protect our children.  Let us also honor the strength and resilience
of survivors of child abuse.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first
day of March, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh.

                                JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
