---
date: '2024-02-23'
published_time: 2024-02-23 10:13:28-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/02/23/proclamation-on-national-eating-disorders-awareness-week-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Proclamation on National Eating Disorders Awareness Week,\_2024"
---
 
   During National Eating Disorders Awareness Week, we shine a light on
these serious health conditions, which impact nearly 1 in 10 people
across America, and reaffirm our commitment to improving access to
mental health services, treatment, recovery, and support. 

     Eating disorders are serious and life-threatening, but with early
intervention, a full recovery is possible.  Unfortunately, the
stigmatization experienced by people struggling with eating disorders
often prevents them from seeking health care and support.  When left
untreated, eating disorders can have devastating effects on the human
body.  Each of us has the power to show compassion to those who are
struggling, help break down the barriers standing in the way of
recovery, and create a culture that treats everyone with dignity and
respect.

     My Administration is taking action to support all those living with
eating disorders.  Federal agencies such as the National Institute of
Mental Health have been working to improve the detection and prevention
of eating disorders so we can save lives by developing effective
therapies and interventions.  Through the Substance Abuse and Mental
Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) and funding for the National
Center of Excellence for Eating Disorders, we are working to expand
access to new tools and trainings for health care providers, families,
caregivers, and community members so they can better detect and treat
eating disorders.  We are helping schools hire more mental health
counselors, social workers, and nurses to make sure that young people
have the support they need to live full and healthy lives.

     At its core, tackling the mental health crisis is about providing
hope.  That is why my Administration is investing billions of dollars to
improve access to mental health services, helping people get the care
they deserve.  Across the United States, we are expanding the number of
Certified Community Behavioral Health Clinics that provide 24/7 care
regardless of a person’s ability to pay.  We are expanding training for
health care professionals; integrating mental health services into
primary care settings; improving coverage of mental health conditions;
strengthening enforcement of parity laws; and addressing the harms of
bullying and social media that fuel eating disorders, depression, and
self-harm. 

     As Americans, we have a duty to reach out to one another and leave
no one behind.  Let us extend a helping hand to those struggling with an
eating disorder and ensure that they have access to the treatment they
deserve.  This week, we recommit to showing compassion and empowering
our fellow Americans to ask for help when they need it.  For those in
need of support, visit samhsa.gov/find-support or call the SAMHSA
National Helpline at 1-800-662-4357 for confidential, free,
24-hours-a-day, 365-days-a-year information and referral services.  For
anyone experiencing a crisis, immediate and confidential help is also
available by calling or texting 988, the National Suicide and Crisis
Lifeline.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
February 26 through March 3, 2024, as National Eating Disorders
Awareness Week.  I encourage citizens, government agencies, private
businesses, nonprofit organizations, and other interested groups to join
in activities that will increase awareness of what Americans can do to
prevent eating disorders and that will improve access to care and other
support services for those currently living with an eating disorder.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-third
day of February, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and
of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.  

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
