---
date: '2024-02-04'
published_time: 2024-02-04 13:40:06-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/02/04/letter-to-the-speaker-of-the-house-and-president-pro-tempore-of-the-senate-consistent-with-the-war-powers-resolution-public-law-93-148-13/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Letter to the Speaker of the House and President pro tempore of the Senate\
  \ consistent with the War Powers Resolution (Public Law\_93-148)"
---
 
Dear Mr. Speaker:   (Dear Madam President:)  
  
As I have reported previously, militia groups affiliated with Iran’s
Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) have perpetrated a series of
attacks against United States personnel and facilities in Iraq and Syria
and have placed under grave threat the lives of United States personnel
and Coalition forces operating alongside United States forces.  These
attacks have continued since my prior report and have now expanded to a
third country.  A recent attack by Iran-affiliated militia groups killed
three service members and injured multiple United States personnel
located at the “Tower 22” base housing United States forces in
northeastern Jordan.  
  
Previously, in response to these attacks and the threat of future
attacks, at my direction, United States forces have conducted targeted
strikes against facilities in Iraq and Syria used by the IRGC and
affiliated militia groups.  In response to the continuation of attacks
against United States forces since my prior report, at my direction,
United States forces have conducted discrete strikes against facilities
in Syria and Iraq used by the IRGC and affiliated militia groups for
headquarters and command and control, weapons storage, training,
logistics support, and other purposes.  The strikes have been taken to
deter the IRGC and affiliated militia groups from conducting or
supporting further attacks on United States personnel and facilities and
have been conducted in a manner designed to limit the risk of escalation
and avoid civilian casualties.  I directed the strikes in order to
protect and defend our personnel and assets who are in Syria, Iraq, and
Jordan conducting military operations pursuant to the 2001 Authorization
for Use of Military Force (Public Law 107-40).  The strikes are intended
to degrade and disrupt the ongoing series of attacks against the United
States and our partners.  
  
I directed this military action consistent with my responsibility to
protect United States citizens both at home and abroad and in
furtherance of United States national security and foreign policy
interests, pursuant to my constitutional authority as Commander in Chief
and Chief Executive and to conduct United States foreign relations and
in accordance with the 2001 Authorization for Use of Military Force
(Public Law 107-40) and the Authorization for Use of Military Force
Against Iraq (Public Law 107-243).  The United States is taking
necessary and proportionate action consistent with international law and
in the exercise of the United States’ inherent right of self-defense as
reflected in Article 51 of the United Nations Charter.  If necessary, I
will direct additional measures, including against the IRGC and
IRGC-affiliated personnel and facilities, as appropriate, to address the
series of attacks against United States forces and facilities.  
  
I am providing this report as part of my efforts to keep the Congress
fully informed, consistent with the War Powers Resolution (Public Law
93-148).  I appreciate the support of the Congress in this action.

                              Sincerely,  
  
  
                              JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
