---
date: '2024-02-08'
published_time: 2024-02-08 20:31:40-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/02/08/national-security-memorandum-on-safeguards-and-accountability-with-respect-to-transferred-defense-articles-and-defense-services/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "National Security Memorandum on Safeguards and Accountability With Respect\
  \ to Transferred Defense Articles and Defense\_Services"
---
 
NATIONAL SECURITY MEMORANDUM/NSM-20  
  
MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY OF STATE  
               THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE  
               THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  
               THE DIRECTOR OF THE OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND  
                 BUDGET  
               THE DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE

SUBJECT:       Safeguards and Accountability With Respect to  
               Transferred Defense Articles and Defense  
               Services

As outlined in National Security Memorandum 18 of February 23, 2023
(United States Conventional Arms Transfer Policy) (NSM-18), supporting
foreign partners of the United States through appropriate transfers of
defense articles by the Department of State and the Department of
Defense is a critical tool for advancing United States foreign policy
and national security objectives, including to:

     (a)  strengthen the collective security of the United States and
its allies and partners by enhancing interoperability and supporting
United States-led diplomacy in building and maintaining international
coalitions;

     (b)  promote international peace and stability, and help allies and
partners deter and defend themselves against aggression and foreign
malign influence;

     (c)  strengthen United States national security by reinforcing
respect for human rights, international humanitarian law, democratic
governance, and the rule of law;  
  
     (d)  prevent arms transfers that risk facilitating or otherwise
contributing to violations of human rights or international humanitarian
law; and

     (e)  strengthen ally and partner capacity to respect their
obligations under international law and reduce the risk of civilian
harm, including through appropriate tools, training, advising, and
institutional capacity-building efforts that accompany arms transfers.

Equally critical is ensuring that adequate safeguards and accountability
exist with respect to transferred defense articles and defense
services.  Under the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2751, *et
seq*.), both the Department of State and the Department of Defense
implement end-use monitoring programs.   
  
In addition, as a matter of policy, the United States always seeks to
promote adherence to international law and encourages other states and
partners to do the same.  United States policy, including as reflected
in Executive Order 13732 of July 1, 2016 (United States Policy on Pre-
and Post-Strike Measures to Address Civilian Casualties in U.S.
Operations Involving the Use of Force), is for executive departments and
agencies to engage with foreign partners to share and learn best
practices for reducing the likelihood of and responding to civilian
casualties, including through appropriate training and assistance.  In
order to effectively implement certain obligations under United States
law, the United States must maintain an appropriate understanding of
foreign partners’ adherence to international law, including, as
applicable, international human rights law and international
humanitarian law.  As a matter of international law, the United States
looks to the law of state responsibility and United States partners’
compliance with international humanitarian law in assessing the
lawfulness of United States military assistance to, and joint operations
with, military partners.   
  
For these reasons, I am issuing this memorandum, which requires the
Secretary of State to obtain certain credible and reliable written
assurances from foreign governments receiving defense articles and, as
appropriate, defense services, from the Departments of State and
Defense, and requires the Secretaries of State and Defense to provide
periodic congressional reports to enable meaningful oversight.  In
addition to the requirements of this memorandum, the Secretaries of
State and Defense are responsible for ensuring that all transfers of
defense articles and defense services by the Departments of State and
Defense under any security cooperation or security assistance
authorities are conducted in a manner consistent with all applicable
international and domestic law and policy, including international
humanitarian law and international human rights law, the applicable
“Leahy Law” (22 U.S.C. 2378d, 10 U.S.C. 362), and NSM-18.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Section 1.  Policy.</span>  (a)
 Except as provided below, the policy outlined in this memorandum
applies prospectively to the provision to foreign governments by the
Departments of State or Defense of any defense articles funded with
congressional appropriations under their respective security assistance
and security cooperation authorities, including with Foreign Military
Financing and Ukraine Security Assistance Initiative funds, pursuant to
10 U.S.C. 333, and pursuant to Presidential drawdown authority under
section 506 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2318). 
Prior to the Departments of State or Defense providing such defense
articles to the recipient country and, as applicable, consistent with
the timelines set out in subsection (c) of this section, the Secretary
of State shall:  
  
          (i)   obtain credible and reliable written assurances from a
representative of the recipient country as the Secretary of State deems
appropriate that the recipient country will use any such defense
articles in accordance with international humanitarian law and, as
applicable, other international law; and  
  
          (ii)  in furtherance of supporting section 620I of the Foreign
Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2378-1) and applicable international
law, obtain credible and reliable written assurances from a
representative of the recipient country as the Secretary of State deems
appropriate that, in any area of armed conflict where the recipient
country uses such defense articles, consistent with applicable
international law, the recipient country will facilitate and not
arbitrarily deny, restrict, or otherwise impede, directly or indirectly,
the transport or delivery of United States humanitarian assistance and
United States Government-supported international efforts to provide
humanitarian assistance.  
  
The assurances described in this subsection shall be enforceable
consistent with subsection (b) of this section.  
  
     (b)  Upon an assessment by the Secretary of State or the Secretary
of Defense that the credibility or reliability of assurances provided by
the recipient country as required by subsection (a) of this section has
been called into question and should be revisited, the Secretary of
State or the Secretary of Defense, as appropriate, shall report to the
President, through the Assistant to the President for National Security
Affairs, within 45 days of such assessment and shall indicate
appropriate next steps to be taken to assess and remediate the
situation.  Such remediation could include actions from refreshing the
assurances to suspending any further transfers of defense articles or,
as appropriate, defense services.  
  
     (c)  Recognizing that a reasonable period of time is necessary to
obtain the assurances required by subsection (a) of this section from
foreign governments already receiving such defense articles from the
Departments of State or Defense as of the date of this memorandum, the
Secretary of State shall obtain the required assurances from those
countries within the following time periods:  
  
          (i)   For any country to which subsection (a) of this section
applies and that is deemed by the Secretary of State to be engaged, as
of the date of this memorandum, in an active armed conflict in which
defense articles covered by this section are used, the Secretary of
State shall obtain the assurances outlined in subsection (a) of this
section not later than 45 days after the date of this memorandum and
shall provide an update to the President, through the Assistant to the
President for National Security Affairs, regarding the recipient
countries that have provided such assurances.  If the Secretary of State
does not obtain such assurances within 45 days of the date of this
memorandum, the transfer of defense articles and, as applicable, defense
services, shall be paused until the required assurances are obtained.  
  
          (ii)  For any country to which subsection (a) of this section
applies and that is not deemed by the Secretary of State to be engaged,
as of the date of this memorandum, in an active armed conflict in which
defense articles covered by this section are used, the Secretary of
State shall obtain the assurances outlined in subsection (a) of this
section not later than 180 days after the date of this memorandum and
shall provide an update to the President, through the Assistant to the
President for National Security Affairs, regarding the recipient
countries that have provided such assurances.  If the Secretary of State
does not obtain such assurances within 180 days of the date of this
memorandum, the transfer of defense articles and, as applicable, defense
services, shall be paused until the required assurances are obtained.  
  
     (d)  This memorandum does not apply to (1) air defense systems; (2)
other defense articles or defense services that are intended to be used
for strictly defensive purposes or are exclusively for non-lethal
purposes other than in armed conflict; (3) defense articles or defense
services that are non-lethal in nature; or (4) transfers strictly for
the operational needs of the Department of Defense.   
  
     (e)  This memorandum shall apply to the provision to foreign
governments by the Departments of State or Defense of any defense
services the Secretary of State or the Secretary of Defense determines
to be appropriate under their respective authorities in furthering the
aims of the policy outlined in this memorandum.  
  
     (f)  In rare and extraordinary circumstances justified by an
imperative associated with the national security of the United States,
and with concurrent notification to the President, including an
articulation of the relevant justification, the Secretary of State or
the Secretary of Defense may waive the requirements of this section. 
Such waiver should be as limited in time, scope, and nature as deemed
necessary to advance the interests of United States national security.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 2.</span>  Congressional
Reporting.  (a)  Not later than 90 days after the date of this
memorandum, and once every fiscal year thereafter, the Secretaries of
State and Defense shall report in written form and, to the extent
additionally appropriate, through verbal briefings by appropriate senior
officials of their respective departments, to the Committee on Foreign
Relations, the Committee on Armed Services, and the Committee on
Appropriations of the Senate; the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the
Committee on Armed Services, and the Committee on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives; and, upon request, other congressional
national security committees as appropriate.  The written report shall
address defense articles and, as appropriate, defense services, provided
by the Departments of State or Defense described in subsections 1(a) and
1(e) of this memorandum, and shall include:  
  
          (i)     any new assurances obtained since the prior report;  
  
          (ii)    an assessment of any credible reports or allegations
that such defense articles and, as appropriate, defense services, have
been used in a manner not consistent with international law, including
international humanitarian law; such assessment shall include any
determinations, if they can reasonably be made, as to whether use has
occurred in a manner not consistent with international law, and if so,
whether the recipient country has pursued appropriate accountability;  
  
          (iii)   a description of the procedures used to make the
assessment described in subsection (a)(ii) of this section;  
  
          (iv)    an assessment and analysis of (1) any credible reports
indicating that the use of such defense articles and, as appropriate,
defense services, has been found to be inconsistent with established
best practices for mitigating civilian harm, including practices that
have been adopted by the United States military, and including measures
implemented in response to the Department of Defense’s Civilian Harm
Mitigation and Response Action Plan or incidents reviewed pursuant to
the Department of State’s Civilian Harm Incident Response Guidance; and
(2) the extent to which efforts to induce effective implementation of
such civilian harm mitigation best practices have been incorporated into
the relevant United States security assistance program;  
  
          (v)     a description of the procedures used to make the
assessment and analysis described in subsection (iv) of this section;  
  
          (vi)    a description of any known occurrences of such defense
articles and, as appropriate, defense services, not being received by
the recipient foreign government that is the intended recipient, or
being misused for purposes inconsistent with the intended purposes, and
a description of any remedies undertaken;  
  
          (vii)   an assessment and analysis of whether each foreign
government recipient has abided by the assurances received pursuant to
section 1(a)(ii) of this memorandum, whether such recipient is in
compliance with section 620I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22
U.S.C. 2378-1), and whether such recipient has fully cooperated with
United States Government efforts and United States Government-supported
international efforts to provide humanitarian assistance in an area of
armed conflict where the recipient country is using such defense
articles and, as appropriate, defense services; and   
  
          (viii)  a description of any challenges to conducting the
assessment and analysis described in subsections (a)(i)-(vii) of this
section, including whether or not there is available information
responsive to the subsections above.   
  
     (b)  The written report and, where applicable, accompanying verbal
briefing provided under subsection (a) of this section shall be
unclassified but may be supplemented, to the extent necessary, with
classified reporting as appropriate for the protection of classified
national security information.  
  
     (c)  The first report provided under this section shall include
available information on the use, since January 2023, of defense
articles and, as appropriate, defense services, provided by the
Departments of State or Defense described in subsections 1(a) and 1(e)
of this memorandum by recipient countries that engaged in armed conflict
during calendar year 2023.  
  
     (d)  The Secretaries of State and Defense shall notify the
congressional committees specified in subsection (a) of this section
within 7 days following any report provided to the President pursuant to
section 1(b) of this memorandum and within 7 days following any
notification provided to the President of the exercise of a waiver
pursuant to section 1(f) of this memorandum, and shall notify the same
committees of assurances newly received pursuant to section 1(a) of this
memorandum within 30 days of receiving such assurances if not otherwise
reported to the Congress within that time period.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 3.</span>  Definitions.
 For purposes of this memorandum, the terms “defense article” and
“defense service” have the meanings given in section 47 of the Arms
Export Control Act, 22 U.S.C. 2794.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 4.</span>  General
Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this memorandum shall be construed to
impair or otherwise affect:  
  
          (i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department
or agency, or the head thereof; or  
  
          (ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of
Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or
legislative proposals.  
  
     (b)  This memorandum shall be implemented consistent with
applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.  
  
     (c)  This memorandum is not intended to, and does not, create any
right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in
equity by any party against the United States, its departments,
agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other
person.  
  
     (d)  The requirements in this memorandum are not intended to
reflect an understanding that they are required by treaty or customary
international law, and this memorandum should not be understood or cited
to that effect.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
