---
date: '2024-02-07'
published_time: 2024-02-07 14:17:17-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/02/07/message-to-the-congress-on-the-continuation-of-the-national-emergency-with-respect-to-the-widespread-humanitarian-crisis-in-afghanistan-and-the-potential-for-a-deepening-economic-collapse-in-afghanist/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Message to the Congress on the Continuation of the National Emergency With\
  \ Respect to the Widespread Humanitarian Crisis in Afghanistan and the Potential\
  \ for a Deepening Economic Collapse in\_Afghanistan"
---
 
     Section 202(d) of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d))
provides for the automatic termination of a national emergency unless,
within 90 days prior to the anniversary date of its declaration, the
President publishes in the *Federal Register* and transmits to the
Congress a notice stating that the emergency is to continue in effect
beyond the anniversary date.  In accordance with this provision, I have
sent to the *Federal Register* for publication the enclosed notice
stating that the national emergency with respect to the widespread
humanitarian crisis in Afghanistan and the potential for a deepening
economic collapse in Afghanistan declared in Executive Order 14064 of
February 11, 2022, is to continue in effect beyond February 11, 2024.

     The widespread humanitarian crisis in Afghanistan — including the
urgent needs of the people of Afghanistan for food security, livelihoods
support, water, sanitation, health, hygiene, and shelter and settlement
assistance, among other basic human needs — and the potential for a
deepening economic collapse in Afghanistan continue to pose an unusual
and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of
the United States.  In addition, the preservation of certain property of
Da Afghanistan Bank (DAB) held in the United States by United States
financial institutions is of the utmost importance to addressing this
national emergency and the welfare of the people of Afghanistan.
 Various parties, including representatives of victims of terrorism,
have asserted legal claims against certain property of DAB or indicated
in public court filings an intent to make such claims.  This property is
blocked under Executive Order 14064.

     Therefore, I have determined that it is necessary to continue the
national emergency declared in Executive Order 14064 with respect to the
widespread humanitarian crisis in Afghanistan and the potential for a
deepening economic collapse in Afghanistan.  

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

THE WHITE HOUSE,  
 February 7, 2024.
