---
date: '2024-02-06'
published_time: 2024-02-06 16:24:38-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/02/06/a-proclamation-on-national-tribal-colleges-and-universities-week-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Tribal Colleges and Universities Week,\_2024"
---
 
     I have always believed that the promise of America is big enough
for everyone to succeed and that it is each generation’s responsibility
to open the doors of opportunity just a little bit wider to include
those who have been left behind.  During National Tribal Colleges and
Universities Week, we honor and celebrate these critical institutions
for doing just that:  providing opportunities for students and their
communities throughout Indian Country.  
  
     A quality education can transform lives and give students the power
to shape their future.  But we know that not everyone has a fair shot at
pursuing higher education — including many Native American students.  We
know that promoting educational opportunities is all the more important
for Native people, after over a century of Federal assimilation policies
that used education as a tool of cultural and physical violence —
devastating Native communities and ripping Native families apart.  We
have seen time and again that Tribal Colleges and Universities uplift
Native American students through culturally grounded education and put
them on a path toward a brighter future.  That is why my Administration
has been working relentlessly to provide these institutions with the
support they need to thrive.  
  
     During my first year in office, I was proud to issue an Executive
Order on the White House Initiative on Advancing Educational Equity,
Excellence, and Economic Opportunity for Native Americans and
Strengthening Tribal Colleges and Universities.  This initiative directs
the Secretary of Education, the Secretary of the Interior, and the
Secretary of Labor to collaborate with leaders from Tribal Nations to
advance educational equity, excellence, and economic opportunity for
Native American students.  We are also investing millions of dollars to
provide Tribal Colleges and Universities with the resources they
deserve.  
  
     My Administration has also been working to make higher education
more affordable for all students.  To date, we have worked with the
Congress to increase the maximum Pell Grant by $900 — making it easier
for millions of students to pay for school.  We have also fixed the
Public Service Loan Forgiveness program to ensure that students who
become public servants receive the debt relief they are entitled to
under the law.  Through our Saving on a Valuable Education Plan, we are
cutting payments for undergraduate loans in half, providing early
forgiveness to many borrowers with low balance loans, and saving the
typical borrower around $1,000 per year.  We are pursuing new actions to
relieve the burden of student debt for as many borrowers as we can, as
fast as we can.  
  
     Every child in America has a dream.  It is our responsibility to
give them the opportunity to make those dreams a reality.  This National
Tribal Colleges and Universities Week, let us recommit to supporting
these centers of academic excellence as they empower young Native
American leaders to pursue their loftiest ambitions and build an America
we can all be proud of.  
  
     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
February 4 through February 10, 2024, as National Tribal Colleges and
Universities Week.  
  
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this sixth day of
February, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.  
 

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
