---
date: '2024-02-01'
modified_time: 2024-02-01 10:41:30-05:00
published_time: 2024-02-01 12:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/02/01/executive-order-on-imposing-certain-sanctions-on-persons-undermining-peace-security-and-stability-in-the-west-bank/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Executive Order on Imposing Certain Sanctions on Persons Undermining Peace,\
  \ Security, and Stability in the West\_Bank"
---
 
     By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and
the laws of the United States of America, including the International
Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 *et seq*.) (IEEPA), the
National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 *et seq*.) (NEA), section
212(f) and section 215(a) of the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952
(8 U.S.C. 1182(f) and 8 U.S.C. 1185(a)), and section 301 of title 3,
United States Code,

     I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States of America,
find that the situation in the West Bank — in particular high levels of
extremist settler violence, forced displacement of people and villages,
and property destruction — has reached intolerable levels and
constitutes a serious threat to the peace, security, and stability of
the West Bank and Gaza, Israel, and the broader Middle East region.
 These actions undermine the foreign policy objectives of the United
States, including the viability of a two-state solution and ensuring
Israelis and Palestinians can attain equal measures of security,
prosperity, and freedom.  They also undermine the security of Israel and
have the potential to lead to broader regional destabilization across
the Middle East, threatening United States personnel and interests.  For
these reasons, these actions constitute an unusual and extraordinary
threat to the national security and foreign policy of the United
States.  I hereby declare a national emergency to deal with that
threat.  Accordingly, I hereby order:

     Section 1.  All property and interests in property that are in the
United States, that hereafter come within the United States, or that are
or hereafter come within the possession or control of any United States
person, including any foreign branch, of the following persons are
blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or
otherwise dealt in:

     (a)  any foreign person determined by the Secretary of State, in
consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, or the Secretary of the
Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State:

          (i)    to be responsible for or complicit in, or to have
directly or indirectly engaged or attempted to engage in, any of the
following:

               (A)  actions — including directing, enacting,
implementing, enforcing, or failing to enforce policies — that threaten
the peace, security, or stability of the West Bank; or

               (B)  planning, ordering, otherwise directing, or
participating in any of the following actions affecting the West Bank:

                    (1)  an act of violence or threat of violence
targeting civilians;

                    (2)  efforts to place civilians in reasonable fear
of violence with the purpose or effect of necessitating a change of
residence to avoid such violence;

                    (3)  property destruction; or

                    (4)  seizure or dispossession of property by private
actors;

          (ii)   to be or have been a leader or official of:

               (A)  an entity, including any government entity, that has
engaged in, or whose members have engaged in, any of the activities
described in subsections (a) or (b) of this section related to the
leader’s or official’s tenure; or

               (B)  an entity whose property and interests in property
are blocked pursuant to this order as a result of activities relating to
the leader’s or official’s tenure;

          (iii)  to have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided
financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services
to or in support of, any person blocked pursuant to this order; or

          (iv)   to be owned or controlled by, or to have acted or
purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any person
blocked pursuant to this order; or

     (b)  any foreign person determined by the Secretary of State, in
consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury:

          (i)   to have committed or have attempted to commit, to pose a
significant risk of committing, or to have participated in training to
commit acts of terrorism affecting the West Bank; or

          (ii)  to be a leader or official of an entity sanctioned
pursuant to subsection (b)(i) of this section.

     Sec. 2.  The prohibitions in section 1 of this order apply except
to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders,
directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and
notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit
granted before the date of this order. 

     Sec. 3.  The prohibitions in section 1 of this order include:

     (a)  the making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods,
or services by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and
interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order; and

     (b)  the receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods,
or services from any such person.

     Sec. 4.  (a)  The unrestricted immigrant and nonimmigrant entry
into the United States of noncitizens determined to meet one or more of
the criteria in section 1 of this order would be detrimental to the
interests of the United States, and the entry of such persons into the
United States, as immigrants or nonimmigrants, is hereby suspended,
except when the Secretary of State or the Secretary of Homeland
Security, as appropriate, determines that the person’s entry would not
be contrary to the interests of the United States, including when the
Secretary of State or the Secretary of Homeland Security, as
appropriate, so determines, based on a recommendation of the Attorney
General, that the person’s entry would further important United States
law enforcement objectives.

     (b)  The Secretary of State shall implement this order as it
applies to visas pursuant to such procedures as the Secretary of State,
in consultation with the Secretary of Homeland Security, may establish.

     (c)  The Secretary of Homeland Security shall implement this order
as it applies to the entry of noncitizens pursuant to such procedures as
the Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation with the Secretary
of State, may establish.

     (d)  Such persons shall be treated by this section in the same
manner as persons covered by section 1 of Proclamation 8693 of July 24,
2011 (Suspension of Entry of Aliens Subject to United Nations Security
Council Travel Bans and International Emergency Economic Powers Act
Sanctions).

     Sec. 5*.*  (a)  Any transaction that evades or avoids, has the
purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to
violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

     (b)  Any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions set
forth in this order is prohibited.

     Sec. 6.  I hereby determine that the making of donations of the
types of articles specified in section 203(b)(2) of IEEPA (50 U.S.C.
1702(b)) by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and
interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order would seriously
impair my ability to deal with the national emergency declared in this
order, and I hereby prohibit such donations as provided by section 1 of
this order.

     Sec. 7.  For the purposes of this order:

     (a)  the term “entity” means a partnership, association, trust,
joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization;

     (b)  the term “noncitizen” means any person who is not a citizen or
noncitizen national of the United States;

     (c)  the term “person” means an individual or entity;

     (d)  the term “United States person” means any United States
citizen, lawful permanent resident, entity organized under the laws of
the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States
(including foreign branches), or any person in the United States; and

     (e)  the term “terrorism” means an activity that:

          (i)   involves a violent act or an act dangerous to human
life, property, or infrastructure; and

          (ii)  appears to be intended:

               (A)  to intimidate or coerce a civilian population;

               (B)  to influence the policy of a government by
intimidation or coercion; or

               (C)  to affect the conduct of a government by mass
destruction, assassination, kidnapping, or hostage-taking.

     Sec. 8.  For those persons whose property and interests in property
are blocked or affected by this order who might have a constitutional
presence in the United States, I find that because of the ability to
transfer funds and other assets instantaneously, prior notice to such
persons of measures to be taken pursuant to this order would render
those measures ineffectual.  I therefore determine that for these
measures to be effective in addressing the national emergency declared
in this order, there need be no prior notice of a listing or
determination made pursuant to this order.

     Sec. 9.  The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the
Secretary of State, is authorized to take such actions, including the
promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted
to the President by IEEPA as may be necessary to carry out the purposes
of this order.  The Secretary of the Treasury may, consistent with
applicable law, redelegate any of these functions within the Department
of the Treasury.  All executive departments and agencies of the
United States shall take all appropriate measures within their authority
to implement this order.

     Sec. 10.  Nothing in this order shall prohibit transactions for the
conduct of the official business of the Federal Government or the United
Nations (including its specialized agencies, programs, funds, and
related organizations) by employees, grantees, and contractors thereof.

     Sec. 11.  The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the
Secretary of State, is authorized to submit recurring and final reports
to the Congress on the national emergency declared in this order,
consistent with section 401(c) of the NEA (50 U.S.C. 1641(c)) and
section 204(c) of IEEPA (50 U.S.C. 1703(c)).

     Sec*.* 12.  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair
or otherwise affect:

          (i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department
or agency, or the head thereof; or

          (ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of
Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or
legislative proposals.

     (b)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.

     (c)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right
or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity
by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.  

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

THE WHITE HOUSE,  
  February 1, 2024.
