---
date: '2024-02-29'
modified_time: 2024-02-29 14:46:15-05:00
published_time: 2024-02-29 14:46:14-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/02/29/a-proclamation-on-womens-history-month-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Women\u2019s History Month,\_2024"
---
 
     During Women’s History Month, we celebrate the courageous women who
have helped our Nation build a fairer, more just society.   
  
     Throughout history, the vision and achievements of powerful women
have strengthened our Nation and opened the doors of opportunity wider
for all of us.  Though their stories too often go untold, all of us
stand on the shoulders of these sung and unsung trailblazers — from the
women who took a stand as suffragists, abolitionists, and labor leaders
to pioneering scientists and engineers, groundbreaking artists, proud
public servants, and brave members of our Armed Forces.

     Despite the progress that these visionaries have achieved, there is
more work ahead to knock down the barriers that stand in the way of
women and girls realizing their full potential — in a country founded on
freedom and equality, nothing is more fundamental.  That is why my
Administration has put women and girls at the heart of everything we
do.  When I first came into office, I established the White House Gender
Policy Council to advance their rights and opportunities across domestic
and foreign policy.  I also released the Nation’s first-ever National
Gender Strategy to advance gender equity and equality across my
Administration — from women’s economic security and leadership
opportunities to freedom from gender-based violence and equal access to
education and health care.  Women are seated at every table where
decisions are made in my Administration — from our first female Vice
President, Kamala Harris, to a record number of female cabinet
secretaries to the most diverse set of judges ever nominated to the
Federal bench, including Supreme Court Justice Ketanji Brown Jackson.

     If we want to have the strongest economy in the world, we cannot
leave women — half of our workforce — behind.  Since I have been in
office, the economy has created nearly 15 million jobs, and we have seen
the lowest unemployment rate among women in more than five decades.  As
we implement major pieces of legislation like the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law, the CHIPS and Science Act, and the Inflation
Reduction Act, we are ensuring that women get their fair share of
opportunities.  We are increasing their access to new jobs in sectors
where women have been historically underrepresented, like manufacturing,
construction, and clean energy.  We are championing equal pay, including
issuing new regulations that advance pay equity and pay transparency for
Federal workers and employees of Federal contractors.  

     We are making sure women have access to the resources they need to
enter and remain in the workforce, including high-quality, affordable
child care.  My Administration’s American Rescue Plan helped working
mothers, especially during the most challenging times of the pandemic,
by keeping the doors of 220,000 child care centers open — 90 percent of
which are owned and staffed by women.  Our Child Tax Credit cut the
number of children in poverty by 50 percent and provided breathing room
for 65 million children and their families, and we will keep fighting to
restore it.  I have also signed legislation that provides new
protections for pregnant and postpartum workers. 

     To promote the health and wellness of women in America, under the
leadership of Vice President Harris, we launched the Blueprint
for Addressing the Maternal Health Crisis to combat the high incidence
of maternal mortality — especially for Black, Native, and rural women —
due to systemic inequities in quality health care.  We have expanded
access to health care services for women veterans — the fastest growing
group of veterans receiving services at the Department of Veterans
Affairs.  Last fall, we launched the White House Initiative on Women’s
Health Research to change how we approach and fund women’s health
research, and pioneer the next generation of discoveries in women’s
health care.

     Further, Vice President Harris and I are fighting to protect
women’s reproductive freedom.  In 2022, the Supreme Court made an
extreme decision to overturn *Roe v. Wade*, reversing nearly five
decades of recognizing a woman’s constitutional right to choose and make
deeply personal decisions about her health care.  Now, tens of millions
of women live in States with an extreme and dangerous abortion ban
currently in effect.  Across the country, women are being turned away
from emergency rooms, forced to go to court to seek permission for the
medical attention they need, and made to travel hundreds of miles for
care.  This is unacceptable.  That is why I have taken action to
safeguard access to reproductive care, including abortion and
contraception.  Vice President Harris and I will keep calling on the
Congress to restore the protections of *Roe v. Wade* in Federal law —
the only way to ensure women in every State have the right to choose.

     As we lift up women’s health and economic prosperity, we also have
to protect their physical security.  As a United States Senator, I was
proud to write the Violence Against Women Act, which helped change the
culture of silence around the scourge of gender-based violence in
America.  When we reauthorized the law, we increased our total
investment in prevention and support to $700 million for 2023 alone —
the highest funding ever to protect women from gender-based violence in
nearly 30 years.  I have also spearheaded historic military justice
reforms to better protect survivors and ensure that, in cases of
gender-based violence, prosecutorial decisions are fully independent
from the chain of command.  Last year, my Administration released the
first-ever National Plan to End Gender-Based Violence, advancing a
comprehensive Government-wide approach to preventing and addressing
gender-based violence across the United States.

     Globally, my Administration is supporting initiatives that help
expand access to child care, end gender-based violence, cut the digital
gender divide in half, promote women’s leadership, and more.  Thanks to
the leadership of Vice President Harris, we have galvanized more than
$2.9 billion in investments to advance the economic status of women
around the world and ensure they play a meaningful role in the
industries of the future.  

     This Women’s History Month, may we recognize the long, storied
history of great women helping to realize our Nation’s founding promise
and highest aspirations.  May we all continue working to build a world
worthy of the dreams and goals of all women and girls.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim March
2024 as Women’s History Month.  I call upon all Americans to observe
this month and to celebrate International Women’s Day on March 8, 2024,
with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities.  I also invite
all Americans to visit WomensHistoryMonth.gov to learn more about the
vital contributions of women to our Nation’s history.   
  
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-ninth
day of February, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and
of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.  
  
  
                                       JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
