---
date: '2024-02-07'
published_time: 2024-02-07 14:14:45-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/02/07/notice-on-the-continuation-of-the-national-emergency-with-respect-to-the-widespread-humanitarian-crisis-in-afghanistan-and-the-potential-for-a-deepening-economic-collapse-in-afghanistan-2/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Notice on the Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to the Widespread\
  \ Humanitarian Crisis in Afghanistan and the Potential for a Deepening Economic\
  \ Collapse in\_Afghanistan"
---
 
     On February 11, 2022, by Executive Order 14064, I declared a
national emergency pursuant to the International Emergency Economic
Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 *et seq.*) to deal with the unusual and
extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of the
United States constituted by the widespread humanitarian crisis in
Afghanistan and the potential for a deepening economic collapse in
Afghanistan.

     The widespread humanitarian crisis in Afghanistan — including the
urgent needs of the people of Afghanistan for food security, livelihoods
support, water, sanitation, health, hygiene, and shelter and settlement
assistance, among other basic human needs — and the potential for a
deepening economic collapse in Afghanistan continue to pose an unusual
and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of
the United States.  In addition, the preservation of certain property of
Da Afghanistan Bank (DAB) held in the United States by United States
financial institutions is of the utmost importance to addressing this
national emergency and the welfare of the people of Afghanistan. 
Various parties, including representatives of victims of terrorism, have
asserted legal claims against certain property of DAB or indicated in
public court filings an intent to make such claims.  This property is
blocked under Executive Order 14064.

     For these reasons, the national emergency declared in Executive
Order 14064 of February 11, 2022, must continue in effect beyond
February 11, 2024.  Therefore, in accordance with section 202(d) of the
National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)), I am continuing for 1 year
the national emergency declared in Executive Order 14064 with respect to
the widespread humanitarian crisis in Afghanistan and the potential for
a deepening economic collapse in Afghanistan.

     This notice shall be published in the *Federal Register* and
transmitted to the Congress.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

THE WHITE HOUSE,  
 February 7, 2024.
