---
date: '2024-02-28'
modified_time: 2024-02-28 18:06:29-05:00
published_time: 2024-02-28 18:06:28-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/02/28/message-to-the-congress-on-preventing-access-to-americans-bulk-sensitive-personal-data-and-united-states-government-related-data-by-countries-of-concern/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Message to the Congress on Preventing Access to Americans\u2019 Bulk Sensitive\
  \ Personal Data and United\_States Government-Related Data by Countries of\_Concern"
---
 
TO THE CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES:  
  
  
     Pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50
U.S.C. 1701 *et seq*.) (IEEPA), the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C.
1601 *et seq*.), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, I
hereby report that I have issued an Executive Order that expands the
scope of the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13873 of May
15, 2019 (Securing the Information and Communications Technology and
Services Supply Chain), and further addressed with additional measures
in Executive Order 14034 of June 9, 2021 (Protecting Americans’
Sensitive Data from Foreign Adversaries).

     The continuing effort of certain countries of concern to access
Americans’ sensitive personal data and United States Government-related
data constitutes an unusual and extraordinary threat, which has its
source in whole or substantial part outside the United States, to the
national security and foreign policy of the United States.  Access to
Americans’ bulk sensitive personal data or United States
Government-related data increases the ability of countries of concern to
engage in a wide range of malicious activities, including espionage,
influence, kinetic, or cyber operations, or to identify other potential
strategic advantages over the United States.

     To address this threat and to take further steps with respect to
the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13873, the order
authorizes the Attorney General, in coordination with the Secretary of
Homeland Security and in consultation with the heads of relevant
agencies, to issue, subject to public notice and comment, regulations to
prohibit or otherwise restrict the large-scale transfer of Americans’
personal data to countries of concern and to provide safeguards around
other activities that can give those countries access to sensitive data.
 Section 2(b) of the order authorizes the Attorney General, in
consultation with the heads of relevant agencies, to take such actions,
including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all
other powers granted to the President by IEEPA, as may be necessary or
appropriate to carry out the purposes of the order.

     In addition, section 2(d) of the order authorizes the Secretary of
Homeland Security, acting through the Director of the Cybersecurity and
Infrastructure Security Agency, in coordination with the Attorney
General and in consultation with the heads of relevant agencies, to
propose, seek public comment on, and publish security requirements that
address the unacceptable risk posed by restricted transactions, as
identified by the Attorney General.  Section 2(e) of the order
authorizes the Secretary of Homeland Security, in coordination with the
Attorney General, to take such actions, including promulgating rules,
regulations, standards, and requirements; issuing interpretive guidance;
and employing all other powers granted to the President by IEEPA as may
be necessary to carry out the purposes described in section 2(d) of the
order.

     I am enclosing a copy of the Executive Order I have issued.  

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

THE WHITE HOUSE,  
    February 28, 2024.
