---
date: '2024-02-21'
modified_time: 2024-02-21 10:04:02-05:00
published_time: 2024-02-21 10:04:01-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/02/21/executive-order-on-amending-regulations-relating-to-the-safeguarding-of-vessels-harbors-ports-and-waterfront-facilities-of-the-united-states/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Executive Order on Amending Regulations Relating to the Safeguarding of Vessels,\
  \ Harbors, Ports, and Waterfront Facilities of the United\_States"
---
 
  By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, including section 1 of title II of
the Act of June 15, 1917, as amended (46 U.S.C. 70051) (the “Act”), and
in addition to the finding in Executive Order 10173 of October 18, 1950,
and any other declaration or finding in force under section 1 of
the Act, I find that the security of the United States is endangered by
reason of disturbances in the international relations of the United
States that exist as a result of persistent and increasingly
sophisticated malicious cyber campaigns against the United States, and
that such disturbances continue to endanger such relations, and hereby
order that:

Section 1.  Amendments.  Part 6 of title 33 of the Code of Federal
Regulations is amended by:  
  
(a)  Amending section 6.01-3 to read as follows:

“6.01-3.  Captain of the Port.  *Captain of the Port*, as used in this
part, means the officer of the Coast Guard, under the command of a
District Commander, so designated by the Commandant for the purpose of
giving immediate direction to Coast Guard law enforcement activities
within the Captain of the Port’s assigned area.  In addition, the
District Commander will be Captain of the Port with respect to the
remaining areas in the District not assigned to officers designated by
the Commandant as Captain of the Port.”;

     (b)  Amending section 6.01-5 to read as follows:

“6.01-5.  Security zone.  *Security zone*, as used in this part, means
all areas of land, water, or land and water, which are so designated by
the Captain of the Port for such time as the Captain of the Port deems
necessary to prevent damage or injury to any vessel or waterfront
facility, to safeguard ports, harbors, territories, or waters of the
United States or to secure the observance of the rights and obligations
of the United States.”;

     (c)  Adding after the existing section 6.01-6 the following new
section:

“6.01-7.  Damage.  *Damage*, as used in this part in connection with any
data, information, network, program, system, or other digital
infrastructure, has the meaning ascribed to “damage” under 18 U.S.C.
1030(e)(8).”;

     (d)  Adding after the new section 6.01-7 the following new section:

“6.01-8.  Cyber incident.  *Cyber incident*, as used in this part, has
the meaning ascribed to an “incident” under 44 U.S.C. 3552(b)(2).”;

     (e)  Amending section 6.04-5 to read as follows:

“6.04-5.  Preventing access of persons, articles, or things, including
any data, information, network, program, system, or other digital
infrastructure, to vessels, or waterfront facilities.  The Captain of
the Port may prevent any person, article, or thing, including any data,
information, network, program, system, or other digital infrastructure,
from boarding or being taken or placed on board any vessel or entering
or being taken into or upon or placed in or upon any waterfront facility
whenever it appears to the Captain of the Port that such action is
necessary in order to secure such vessel from damage or injury or to
prevent damage or injury to any vessel, or waterfront facility,
including any data, information, network, program, system, or other
digital infrastructure therein or thereon, or waters of the United
States, or to secure the observances of rights and obligations of the
United States.”;

     (f)  Amending section 6.04-6 to read as follows:

“6.04-6.  Establishing security zones; prohibitions with respect
thereto.  The Captain of a Port may establish security zones subject to
the terms and conditions specified in § 6.01–5.  No person or vessel
shall enter a security zone without the permission of the Captain of the
Port.  No person shall board or take or place any article or thing,
including any data, information, network, program, system, or other
digital infrastructure, on board any vessel in a security zone without
the permission of the Captain of the Port.  No person shall take or
place any article or thing upon any waterfront facility in any such zone
without such permission.”;

     (g)  Amending section 6.04-7 to read as follows:

“6.04-7.  Visitation, search, and removal.  As consistent with law, the
Captain of the Port may cause to be inspected and searched at any time
any vessel, waterfront facility, or security zone, or any person,
article, or thing, including any data, information, network, program,
system, or other digital infrastructure thereon or therein, within the
jurisdiction of the United States, may place guards upon any such
vessel, waterfront facility, or security zone and may remove therefrom
any and all persons, articles, or things, including any data,
information, network, program, system, or other digital infrastructure,
not specifically authorized by the Captain of the Port to go or remain
thereon or therein.”;

     (h)  Amending section 6.04-8 to read as follows:

“6.04-8.  Possession and control of vessels.  The Captain of the Port
may supervise and control the movement of any vessel and shall take full
or partial possession or control of any vessel or any part thereof,
within the territorial waters of the United States under the Captain of
the Port’s jurisdiction, whenever it appears to the Captain of the Port
that such action is necessary in order to secure such vessel from damage
or injury, including damage to any data, information, network, program,
system, or other digital infrastructure thereon or therein, or to
prevent damage or injury to any vessel or waterfront facility or waters
of the United States, or to secure the observance of rights and
obligations of the United States.”;

     (i)  Amending section 6.10-7 to read as follows:

“6.10-7.  Identification credentials.  The identification credential to
be issued by the Commandant shall be known as the Coast Guard Port
Security Card, and the form of such credential, and the conditions and
the manner of its issuance shall be as prescribed by the Commandant
after consultation with the Secretary of Labor.  The Commandant shall
not issue a Coast Guard Port Security Card unless the Commandant is
satisfied that the character and habits of life of the applicant
therefor are such as to authorize the belief that the presence of such
individual on board a vessel or within a waterfront facility would not
be inimical to the security of the United States.  The Commandant shall
revoke and require the surrender of a Coast Guard Port Security Card
when the Commandant is no longer satisfied that the holder is entitled
thereto.  The Commandant may recognize for the same purpose such other
credentials as the Commandant may designate in lieu of the Coast Guard
Port Security Card.”;

     (j)  Amending section 6.14-1 to read as follows:

“6.14-1.  Safety measures.  The Commandant, in order to achieve the
purposes of this part, may prescribe such conditions and restrictions
relating to the safety of waterfront facilities and vessels in port as
the Commandant finds to be necessary under existing circumstances.  Such
conditions and restrictions may extend, but shall not be limited to, the
inspection, operation, maintenance, guarding, and manning of, and
fire-prevention measures for, such vessels and waterfront facilities.
 Such conditions and restrictions relating to the safety of waterfront
facilities and vessels in port may also extend to measures the
Commandant finds to be necessary under existing circumstances to
prevent, detect, assess, and remediate an actual or threatened cyber
incident that could cause damage or injury to vessels, harbors, ports,
or waterfront facilities.”;

     (k)  Amending section 6.14-2 to read as follows:

“6.14-2.  Condition of waterfront facility a danger to vessel.  Whenever
the Captain of the Port finds that the mooring of any vessel to a wharf,
dock, pier, or other waterfront structure would endanger such vessel, or
any other vessel, or the harbor or any facility therein by reason of
conditions existing on or about such wharf, dock, pier, or other
waterfront structure, including inadequate guard service, insufficient
lighting, fire hazards, inadequate fire protection, unsafe machinery,
internal disturbance, damage to any data, information, network, program,
system, or other digital infrastructure, actual or threatened cyber
incident, or unsatisfactory operation, the Captain of the Port may
prevent the mooring of any vessel to such wharf, dock, pier, or other
waterfront structure until the unsatisfactory condition or conditions so
found are corrected, and the Captain of the Port may, for the same
reasons, after any vessel has been moored, compel the shifting of such
vessel from any such wharf, dock, pier, or other waterfront structure.”;

     (l)  Amending section 6.16-1 to read as follows:

“6.16-1.  Reporting of sabotage, subversive activity, or an actual or
threatened cyber incident.  Evidence of sabotage, subversive activity,
or an actual or threatened cyber incident involving or endangering any
vessel, harbor, port, or waterfront facility, including any data,
information, network, program, system, or other digital infrastructure
thereon or therein, shall be reported immediately to the Federal Bureau
of Investigation, the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency
(for any cyber incident), and the Captain of the Port, or to their
respective representatives.”;

     (m)  Amending section 6.16-3 to read as follows:

“6.16-3.  Precautions against sabotage.  The master, owner, agent, or
operator of a vessel or waterfront facility shall take all necessary
precautions to protect the vessel, waterfront facility, and cargo,
including any data, information, network, program, system, or other
digital infrastructure thereon or therein, from sabotage.”; and

     (n)  Amending section 6.19-1 to read as follows:

“6.19-1.  Primary responsibility.  Nothing contained in this part shall
be construed as relieving the masters, owners, operators, and agents of
vessels or other waterfront facilities from their primary responsibility
for the protection and security of such vessels or waterfront
facilities, including any data, information, network, program, system,
or other digital infrastructure thereon or therein.”.

     Sec. 2.  Coordination.  In enforcing regulations amended by this
order, the Commandant shall coordinate with the Department of Justice
and other relevant executive departments and agencies, as appropriate
under applicable law or policy.

     Sec. 3.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency,
or the head thereof; or

(ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

      (b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.

     (c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right
or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity
by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

                              JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.  
  
THE WHITE HOUSE,  
  February 21, 2024.
