---
date: '2024-02-01'
modified_time: 2024-02-01 10:47:40-05:00
published_time: 2024-02-01 12:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/02/01/message-to-the-congress-on-imposing-certain-sanctions-on-persons-undermining-peace-security-and-stability-in-the-west-bank/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Message to the Congress on Imposing Certain Sanctions on Persons Undermining\
  \ Peace, Security, and Stability in the West\_Bank"
---
 
TO THE CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES:  
  
     Pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50
U.S.C. 1701 *et seq*.) (IEEPA), the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C.
1601 *et seq*.), section 212(f) and section 215(a) of the Immigration
and Nationality Act of 1952 (8 U.S.C. 1182(f) and 8 U.S.C. 1185(a)), and
section 301 of title 3, United States Code, I hereby report that I have
issued an Executive Order declaring a national emergency to deal with
the threat posed by the situation in the West Bank, including in
particular high levels of extremist settler violence, forced
displacement of people and villages, and property destruction.  Such
actions constitute a serious threat to the peace, security, and
stability of the West Bank and Gaza, Israel, and the broader Middle East
region and undermine the foreign policy and national security objectives
of the United States.  I find that these actions constitute an unusual
and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of
the United States, and I have declared a national emergency to deal with
that threat.

     The order authorizes the blocking of property and interests in
property of any foreign person determined by the Secretary of State, in
consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, or the Secretary of the
Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State:

          (i)    to be responsible for or complicit in, or to have
directly or indirectly engaged or attempted to engage in, actions —
including directing, enacting, implementing, enforcing, or failing to
enforce policies — that threaten the peace, security, or stability of
the West Bank;

          (ii)   to be responsible for or complicit in, or to have
directly or indirectly engaged or attempted to engage in, planning,
ordering, otherwise directing, or participating in certain actions —
including acts of violence or threats of violence targeting civilians,
efforts to place civilians in reasonable fear of violence, property
destruction, or seizure or dispossession of property by private actors —
affecting the West Bank;

          (iii)  to be or have been a leader or official of certain
entities that have engaged in, or whose members have engaged in, such
activities;

          (iv)   to have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided
financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services
to or in support of, any person blocked pursuant to the order; or

          (v)    to be owned or controlled by, or to have acted or
purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any person
blocked pursuant to the order.

     The order also authorizes the blocking of property and interests in
property of any foreign person determined by the Secretary of State, in
consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, to have committed or
have attempted to commit, to pose a significant risk of committing, or
to have participated in training to commit acts of terrorism affecting
the West Bank.  In addition, the order suspends the entry into the
United States of any noncitizen determined to meet one or more of the
above criteria.

     The order authorizes the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation
with the Secretary of State, to take such actions, including the
promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted
to the President by IEEPA as may be necessary to carry out the purposes
of the order.  It directs the Secretary of State, in consultation with
the Secretary of Homeland Security, to implement the order as it applies
to visas, and it directs the Secretary of Homeland Security, in
consultation with the Secretary of State, to implement the order as it
applies to the entry into the United States of noncitizens.  All
executive departments and agencies of the United States are directed to
take all appropriate measures within their authority to implement the
order.

     I am enclosing a copy of the Executive Order I have issued.  

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

THE WHITE HOUSE,  
February 1, 2024.
