---
date: '2024-02-28'
published_time: 2024-02-28 18:05:39-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/02/28/executive-order-on-preventing-access-to-americans-bulk-sensitive-personal-data-and-united-states-government-related-data-by-countries-of-concern/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Executive Order on Preventing Access to Americans\u2019 Bulk Sensitive Personal\
  \ Data and United\_States Government-Related Data by Countries of\_Concern"
---
 
     By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and
the laws of the United States of America, including the International
Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 *et seq*.) (IEEPA), the
National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 *et seq*.) (NEA), and section
301 of title 3, United States Code,

     I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States of America,
hereby expand the scope of the national emergency declared in Executive
Order 13873 of May 15, 2019 (Securing the Information and Communications
Technology and Services Supply Chain), and further addressed with
additional measures in Executive Order 14034 of June 9, 2021 (Protecting
Americans’ Sensitive Data from Foreign Adversaries).  The continuing
effort of certain countries of concern to access Americans’ sensitive
personal data and United States Government-related data constitutes an
unusual and extraordinary threat, which has its source in whole or
substantial part outside the United States, to the national security and
foreign policy of the United States.  Access to Americans’ bulk
sensitive personal data or United States Government-related data
increases the ability of countries of concern to engage in a wide range
of malicious activities.  Countries of concern can rely on advanced
technologies, including artificial intelligence (AI), to analyze and
manipulate bulk sensitive personal data to engage in espionage,
influence, kinetic, or cyber operations or to identify other potential
strategic advantages over the United States.  Countries of concern can
also use access to bulk data sets to fuel the creation and refinement of
AI and other advanced technologies, thereby improving their ability to
exploit the underlying data and exacerbating the national security and
foreign policy threats.  In addition, access to some categories of
sensitive personal data linked to populations and locations associated
with the Federal Government — including the military — regardless of
volume, can be used to reveal insights about those populations and
locations that threaten national security.  The growing exploitation of
Americans’ sensitive personal data threatens the development of an
international technology ecosystem that protects our security, privacy,
and human rights.

     Accordingly, to address this threat and to take further steps with
respect to the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13873, it
is hereby ordered that:

     Section 1.  Policy.  It is the policy of the United States to
restrict access by countries of concern to Americans’ bulk sensitive
personal data and United States Government-related data when such access
would pose an unacceptable risk to the national security of the United
States.  At the same time, the United States continues to support open,
global, interoperable, reliable, and secure flows of data across
borders, as well as maintaining vital consumer, economic, scientific,
and trade relationships that the United States has with other countries.

     The continuing effort by countries of concern to access Americans’
bulk sensitive personal data and United States Government-related data
threatens the national security and foreign policy of the United States.
 Such countries’ governments may seek to access and use sensitive
personal data in a manner that is not in accordance with democratic
values, safeguards for privacy, and other human rights and freedoms.
 Such countries’ approach stands in sharp contrast to the practices of
democracies with respect to sensitive personal data and principles
reflected in the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development
Declaration on Government Access to Personal Data Held by Private Sector
Entities.  Unrestricted transfers of Americans’ bulk sensitive personal
data and United States Government-related data to such countries of
concern may therefore enable them to exploit such data for a variety of
nefarious purposes, including to engage in malicious cyber-enabled
activities.  Countries of concern can use their access to Americans’
bulk sensitive personal data and United States Government-related data
to track and build profiles on United States individuals, including
Federal employees and contractors, for illicit purposes, including
blackmail and espionage.  Access to Americans’ bulk sensitive personal
data and United States Government-related data by countries of concern
through data brokerages, third-party vendor agreements, employment
agreements, investment agreements, or other such arrangements poses
particular and unacceptable risks to our national security given that
these arrangements often can provide countries of concern with direct
and unfettered access to Americans’ bulk sensitive personal data.
 Countries of concern can use access to United States persons’ bulk
sensitive personal data and United States Government-related data to
collect information on activists, academics, journalists, dissidents,
political figures, or members of non-governmental organizations or
marginalized communities in order to intimidate such persons; curb
dissent or political opposition; otherwise limit freedoms of expression,
peaceful assembly, or association; or enable other forms of suppression
of civil liberties.

     This risk of access to Americans’ bulk sensitive personal data and
United States Government-related data is not limited to direct access by
countries of concern.  Entities owned by, and entities or individuals
controlled by or subject to the jurisdiction or direction of, a country
of concern may enable the government of a country of concern to
indirectly access such data.  For example, a country of concern may have
cyber, national security, or intelligence laws that, without sufficient
legal safeguards, obligate such entities and individuals to provide that
country’s intelligence services access to Americans’ bulk sensitive
personal data and United States Government-related data.

     These risks may be exacerbated when countries of concern use bulk
sensitive personal data to develop AI capabilities and algorithms that,
in turn, enable the use of large datasets in increasingly sophisticated
and effective ways to the detriment of United States national security.
 Countries of concern can use AI to target United States persons for
espionage or blackmail by, for example, recognizing patterns across
multiple unrelated datasets to identify potential individuals whose
links to the Federal Government would be otherwise obscured in a single
dataset.

     While aspects of this threat have been addressed in previous
executive actions, such as Executive Order 13694 of April 1, 2015
(Blocking the Property of Certain Persons Engaging in Significant
Malicious Cyber-Enabled Activities), as amended, additional steps need
to be taken to address this threat.

     At the same time, the United States is committed to promoting an
open, global, interoperable, reliable, and secure Internet; protecting
human rights online and offline; supporting a vibrant, global economy by
promoting cross-border data flows required to enable international
commerce and trade; and facilitating open investment.  To ensure that
the United States continues to meet these important policy objectives,
this order does not authorize the imposition of generalized data
localization requirements to store Americans’ bulk sensitive personal
data or United States Government-related data within the United States
or to locate computing facilities used to process Americans’ bulk
sensitive personal data or United States Government-related data within
the United States.  This order also does not broadly prohibit United
States persons from conducting commercial transactions, including
exchanging financial and other data as part of the sale of commercial
goods and services, with entities and individuals located in or subject
to the control, direction, or jurisdiction of countries of concern, or
impose measures aimed at a broader decoupling of the substantial
consumer, economic, scientific, and trade relationships that the United
States has with other countries.  In addition, my Administration has
made commitments to increase public access to the results of
taxpayer-funded scientific research, the sharing and interoperability of
electronic health information, and patient access to their data.  The
national security restrictions established in this order are specific,
carefully calibrated actions to minimize the risks associated with
access to bulk sensitive personal data and United States
Government-related data by countries of concern while minimizing
disruption to commercial activity.  This order shall be implemented
consistent with these policy objectives, including by tailoring any
regulations issued and actions taken pursuant to this order to address
the national security threat posed by access to Americans’ bulk
sensitive personal data and United States Government-related data by
countries of concern.

     Sec. 2.  Prohibited and Restricted Transactions.  (a)  To assist in
addressing the national emergency described in this order, the Attorney
General, in coordination with the Secretary of Homeland Security and in
consultation with the heads of relevant agencies, shall issue, subject
to public notice and comment, regulations that prohibit or otherwise
restrict United States persons from engaging in any acquisition,
holding, use, transfer, transportation, or exportation of, or dealing
in, any property in which a foreign country or national thereof has any
interest (transaction), where the transaction:

          (i)    involves bulk sensitive personal data or United States
Government-related data, as further defined by regulations issued by the
Attorney General pursuant to this section;

          (ii)   is a member of a class of transactions that has been
determined by the Attorney General, in regulations issued by the
Attorney General pursuant to this section, to pose an unacceptable risk
to the national security of the United States because the transactions
may enable countries of concern or covered persons to access bulk
sensitive personal data or United States Government-related data in a
manner that contributes to the national emergency described in this
order;

          (iii)  was initiated, is pending, or will be completed after
the effective date of the regulations issued by the Attorney General
pursuant to this section;

          (iv)   does not qualify for an exemption provided in, or is
not authorized by a license issued pursuant to, the regulations issued
by the Attorney General pursuant to this section; and

           (v)    is not, as defined by regulations issued by the
Attorney General pursuant to this section, ordinarily incident to and
part of the provision of financial services, including banking, capital
markets, and financial insurance services, or required for compliance
with any Federal statutory or regulatory requirements, including any
regulations, guidance, or orders implementing those requirements.

    (b)  The Attorney General, in consultation with the heads of
relevant agencies, is authorized to take such actions, including the
promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all other powers
granted to the President by IEEPA, as may be necessary or appropriate to
carry out the purposes of this order.  Executive departments and
agencies (agencies) are directed to take all appropriate measures within
their authority to implement the provisions of this order.

     (c)  Within 180 days of the date of this order, the Attorney
General, in coordination with the Secretary of Homeland Security, and in
consultation with the heads of relevant agencies, shall publish the
proposed rule described in subsection (a) of this section for notice and
comment.  This proposed rule shall:

          (i)     identify classes of transactions that meet the
criteria specified in subsection (a)(ii) of this section that are to be
prohibited (prohibited transactions);

          (ii)    identify classes of transactions that meet the
criteria specified in subsection (a)(ii) of this section and for which
the Attorney General determines that security requirements established
by the Secretary of Homeland Security, through the Director of the
Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency, in accordance with the
process described in subsection (d) of this section, adequately mitigate
the risk of access by countries of concern or covered persons to bulk
sensitive personal data or United States Government-related data
(restricted transactions);

          (iii)   identify, with the concurrence of the Secretary of
State and the Secretary of Commerce, countries of concern and, as
appropriate, classes of covered persons for the purposes of this order;

          (iv)    establish, as appropriate, mechanisms to provide
additional clarity to persons affected by this order and any regulations
implementing this order (including by designations of covered persons
and licensing decisions);

           (v)     establish a process to issue (including to modify or
rescind), in concurrence with the Secretary of State, the Secretary of
Commerce, and the Secretary of Homeland Security, and in consultation
with the heads of other relevant agencies, as appropriate, licenses
authorizing transactions that would otherwise be prohibited transactions
or restricted transactions;

          (vi)    further define the terms identified in section 7 of
this order and any other terms used in this order or any regulations
implementing this order;

          (vii)   address, as appropriate, coordination with other
United States Government entities, such as the Committee on Foreign
Investment in the United States, the Office of Foreign Assets Control
within the Department of the Treasury, the Bureau of Industry and
Security within the Department of Commerce, and other entities
implementing relevant programs, including those implementing Executive
Order 13873; Executive Order 14034; and Executive Order 13913 of April
4, 2020 (Establishing the Committee for the Assessment of Foreign
Participation in the United States Telecommunications Services Sector);
and

          (viii)  address the need for, as appropriate, recordkeeping
and reporting of transactions to inform investigative, enforcement, and
regulatory efforts.

     (d)  The Secretary of Homeland Security, acting through the
Director of the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency, shall,
in coordination with the Attorney General and in consultation with the
heads of relevant agencies, propose, seek public comment on, and publish
security requirements that address the unacceptable risk posed by
restricted transactions, as identified by the Attorney General pursuant
to this section.  These requirements shall be based on the Cybersecurity
and Privacy Frameworks developed by the National Institute of Standards
and Technology.

          (i)   The Secretary of Homeland Security, acting through the
Director of the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency, shall,
in coordination with the Attorney General, issue any interpretive
guidance regarding the security requirements.

          (ii)  The Attorney General shall, in coordination with the
Secretary of Homeland Security acting through the Director of the
Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency, issue enforcement
guidance regarding the security requirements.

     (e)  The Secretary of Homeland Security, in coordination with the
Attorney General, is hereby authorized to take such actions, including
promulgating rules, regulations, standards, and requirements; issuing
interpretive guidance; and employing all other powers granted to the
President by IEEPA as may be necessary to carry out the purposes
described in subsection (d) of this section. 

     (f)  In exercising the authority delegated in subsection (b) of
this section, the Attorney General, in coordination with the Secretary
of Homeland Security and in consultation with the heads of relevant
agencies, may, in addition to the rulemaking directed in subsection (c)
of this section, propose one or more regulations to further implement
this section, including to identify additional classes of prohibited
transactions; to identify additional classes of restricted transactions;
with the concurrence of the Secretary of State and the Secretary of
Commerce, to identify new or remove existing countries of concern and,
as appropriate, classes of covered persons for the purposes of this
order; and to establish a mechanism for the Attorney General to monitor
whether restricted transactions comply with the security requirements
established under subsection (d) of this section.

     (g)  Any proposed regulations implementing this section:

          (i)    shall reflect consideration of the nature of the class
of transaction involving bulk sensitive personal data or United States
Government-related data, the volume of bulk sensitive personal data
involved in the transaction, and other factors, as appropriate;

          (ii)   shall establish thresholds and due diligence
requirements for entities to use in assessing whether a transaction is a
prohibited transaction or a restricted transaction;

          (iii)  shall not establish generalized data localization
requirements to store bulk sensitive personal data or United States
Government-related data within the United States or to locate computing
facilities used to process bulk sensitive personal data or United States
Government-related data within the United States;

          (iv)   shall account for any legal obligations applicable to
the United States Government relating to public access to the results of
taxpayer-funded scientific research, the sharing and interoperability of
electronic health information, and patient access to their data; and

          (v)    shall not address transactions to the extent that they
involve types of human ‘omic data other than human genomic data before
the submission of the report described in section 6 of this order.

     (h)  The prohibitions promulgated pursuant to this section apply
except to the extent provided by law, including by statute or in
regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant
to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any
license or permit granted prior to the effective date of the applicable
regulations directed by this order.

     (i)  Any transaction or other activity that has the purpose of
evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any
of the prohibitions promulgated pursuant to this section is prohibited.

     (j)  Any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions
promulgated pursuant to this section is prohibited.

     (k)  In regulations issued by the Attorney General under this
section, the Attorney General may prohibit United States persons from
knowingly directing transactions if such transactions would be
prohibited transactions under regulations issued pursuant to this order
if engaged in by a United States person.

     (l)  The Attorney General may, consistent with applicable law,
redelegate any of the authorities conferred on the Attorney General
pursuant to this section within the Department of Justice.  The
Secretary of Homeland Security may, consistent with applicable law,
redelegate any of the authorities conferred on the Secretary of Homeland
Security pursuant to this section within the Department of Homeland
Security.

     (m)  The Attorney General, in coordination with the Secretary of
Homeland Security and in consultation with the heads of relevant
agencies, is hereby authorized to submit recurring and final reports to
the Congress related to this order, consistent with section 401(c) of
the NEA (50 U.S.C. 1641(c)) and section 204(c) of IEEPA (50 U.S.C.
1703(c)).

Sec. 3.  Protecting Sensitive Personal Data.  (a)  Access to bulk
sensitive personal data and United States Government-related data by
countries of concern can be enabled through the transmission of data via
network infrastructure that is subject to the jurisdiction or control of
countries of concern.  The risk of access to this data by countries of
concern can be, and sometime is, exacerbated where the data transits a
submarine cable that is owned or operated by persons owned by,
controlled by, or subject to the jurisdiction or direction of a country
of concern, or that connects to the United States and terminates in the
jurisdiction of a country of concern.  Additionally, the same risk of
access by a country of concern is further exacerbated in instances where
a submarine cable is designed, built, and operated for the express
purpose of transferring data, including bulk sensitive personal data or
United States Government-related data, to a specific data center located
in a foreign jurisdiction.  To address this threat, the Committee for
the Assessment of Foreign Participation in the United States
Telecommunications Services Sector (Committee) shall, to the extent
consistent with its existing authority and applicable law:

          (i)    prioritize, for purposes of and in reliance on the
process set forth in section 6 of Executive Order 13913, the initiation
of reviews of existing licenses for submarine cable systems that are
owned or operated by persons owned by, controlled by, or subject to the
jurisdiction or direction of a country of concern, or that terminate in
the jurisdiction of a country of concern;

          (ii)   issue policy guidance, in consultation with the
Committee’s Advisors as defined in section 3(d) of Executive Order
13913, regarding the Committee’s reviews of license applications and
existing licenses, including the assessment of third-party risks
regarding access to data by countries of concern; and  
  
          (iii)  address, on an ongoing basis, the national security and
law enforcement risks related to access by countries of concern to bulk
sensitive personal data described in this order that may be presented by
any new application or existing license reviewed by the Committee to
land or operate a submarine cable system, including by updating the
Memorandum of Understanding required under section 11 of Executive Order
13913 and by revising the Committee’s standard mitigation measures, with
the approval of the Committee’s Advisors, which may include, as
appropriate, any of the security requirements contemplated by section
2(d) of this order.

     (b)  Entities in the United States healthcare market can access
bulk sensitive personal data, including personal health data and human
genomic data, through partnerships and agreements with United States
healthcare providers and research institutions.  Even if such data is
anonymized, pseudonymized, or de-identified, advances in technology,
combined with access by countries of concern to large data sets,
increasingly enable countries of concern that access this data to
re-identify or de-anonymize data, which may reveal the exploitable
health information of United States persons.  While the United States
supports open scientific data and sample sharing to accelerate research
and development through international cooperation and collaboration, the
following additional steps must be taken to protect United States
persons’ sensitive personal health data and human genomic data from the
threat identified in this order:

          (i)   The Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Health and
Human Services, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, and the Director of
the National Science Foundation shall consider taking steps, including
issuing regulations, guidance, or orders, as appropriate and consistent
with the legal authorities authorizing relevant Federal assistance
programs, to prohibit the provision of assistance that enables access by
countries of concern or covered persons to United States persons’ bulk
sensitive personal data, including personal health data and human
genomic data, or to impose mitigation measures with respect to such
assistance, which may be consistent with the security requirements
adopted under section 2(d) of this order, on the recipients of Federal
assistance to address this threat.  The Secretary of Defense, the
Secretary of Health and Human Services, the Secretary of Veterans
Affairs, and the Director of the National Science Foundation shall, in
consultation with each other, develop and publish guidance to assist
United States research entities in ensuring protection of their bulk
sensitive personal data.

          (ii)  Within 1 year of the date of this order, the Secretary
of Defense, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs, and the Director of the National Science Foundation
shall jointly submit a report to the President through the Assistant to
the President for National Security Affairs (APNSA) detailing their
progress in implementing this subsection.

     (c)  Entities in the data brokerage industry enable access to bulk
sensitive personal data and United States Government-related data by
countries of concern and covered persons.  These entities pose a
particular risk of contributing to the national emergency described in
this order because they routinely engage in the collection, assembly,
evaluation, and dissemination of bulk sensitive personal data and of the
subset of United States Government-related data regarding United States
consumers.  The Director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
(CFPB) is encouraged to consider taking steps, consistent with CFPB’s
existing legal authorities, to address this aspect of the threat and to
enhance compliance with Federal consumer protection law, including by
continuing to pursue the rulemaking proposals that CFPB identified at
the September 2023 Small Business Advisory Panel for Consumer Reporting
Rulemaking.

Sec. 4.  Assessing the National Security Risks Arising from Prior
Transfers of United States Persons’ Bulk Sensitive Personal Data. 
Within 120 days of the effective date of the regulations issued pursuant
to section 2(c) of this order, the Attorney General, the Secretary of
Homeland Security, and the Director of National Intelligence, in
consultation with the heads of relevant agencies, shall recommend to the
APNSA appropriate actions to detect, assess, and mitigate national
security risks arising from prior transfers of United States persons’
bulk sensitive personal data to countries of concern.  Within 150 days
of the effective date of the regulations issued pursuant to section 2(c)
of this order, the APNSA shall review these recommendations and, as
appropriate, consult with the Attorney General, the Secretary of
Homeland Security, and the heads of relevant agencies on implementing
the recommendations consistent with applicable law.

Sec. 5.  Report to the President.  (a)  Within 1 year of the effective
date of the regulations issued pursuant to section 2(c) of this order,
the Attorney General, in consultation with the Secretary of State, the
Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of Commerce, and the Secretary
of Homeland Security, shall submit a report to the President through the
APNSA assessing, to the extent practicable:

          (i)   the effectiveness of the measures imposed under this
order in addressing threats to the national security of the United
States described in this order; and

          (ii)  the economic impact of the implementation of this order,
including on the international competitiveness of United States
industry.

     (b)  In preparing the report described in subsection (a) of this
section, the Attorney General shall solicit and consider public comments
concerning the economic impact of this order.

Sec. 6.  Assessing Risks Associated with Human ‘omic Data.  Within 120
days of the date of this order, the APNSA, the Assistant to the
President and Director of the Domestic Policy Council, the Director of
the Office of Science and Technology Policy, and the Director of the
Office of Pandemic Preparedness and Response Policy, in consultation
with the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of
Health and Human Services, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, the
Director of the National Science Foundation, the Director of National
Intelligence, and the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation,
shall submit a report to the President, through the APNSA, assessing the
risks and benefits of regulating transactions involving types of human
‘omic data other than human genomic data, such as human proteomic data,
human epigenomic data, and human metabolomic data, and recommending the
extent to which such transactions should be regulated pursuant to
section 2 of this order.  This report and recommendation shall consider
the risks to United States persons and national security, as well as the
economic and scientific costs of regulating transactions that provide
countries of concern or covered persons access to these data types.

Sec. 7.  Definitions.  For purposes of this order:

     (a)  The term “access” means logical or physical access, including
the ability to obtain, read, copy, decrypt, edit, divert, release,
affect, alter the state of, or otherwise view or receive, in any form,
including through information technology systems, cloud computing
platforms, networks, security systems, equipment, or software.

     (b)  The term “bulk” means an amount of sensitive personal data
that meets or exceeds a threshold over a set period of time, as
specified in regulations issued by the Attorney General pursuant to
section 2 of this order.

      (c)  The term “country of concern” means any foreign government
that, as determined by the Attorney General pursuant to section
2(c)(iii) or 2(f) of this order, has engaged in a long-term pattern or
serious instances of conduct significantly adverse to the national
security of the United States or the security and safety of United
States persons, and poses a significant risk of exploiting bulk
sensitive personal data or United States Government-related data to the
detriment of the national security of the United States or the security
and safety of United States persons, as specified in regulations issued
by the Attorney General pursuant to section 2 of this order.

     (d)  The term “covered person” means an entity owned by, controlled
by, or subject to the jurisdiction or direction of a country of concern;
a foreign person who is an employee or contractor of such an entity; a
foreign person who is an employee or contractor of a country of concern;
a foreign person who is primarily resident in the territorial
jurisdiction of a country of concern; or any person designated by the
Attorney General as being owned or controlled by or subject to the
jurisdiction or direction of a country of concern, as acting on behalf
of or purporting to act on behalf of a country of concern or other
covered person, or as knowingly causing or directing, directly or
indirectly, a violation of this order or any regulations implementing
this order.

     (e)  The term “covered personal identifiers” means, as determined
by the Attorney General in regulations issued pursuant to section 2 of
this order, specifically listed classes of personally identifiable data
that are reasonably linked to an individual, and that — whether in
combination with each other, with other sensitive personal data, or with
other data that is disclosed by a transacting party pursuant to the
transaction and that makes the personally identifiable data exploitable
by a country of concern — could be used to identify an individual from a
data set or link data across multiple data sets to an individual.  The
term “covered personal identifiers” does not include:

          (i)   demographic or contact data that is linked only to
another piece of demographic or contact data (such as first and last
name, birth date, birthplace, zip code, residential street or postal
address, phone number, and email address and similar public account
identifiers); or

          (ii)  a network-based identifier, account-authentication data,
or call-detail data that is linked only to another network-based
identifier, account-authentication data, or call-detail data for the
provision of telecommunications, networking, or similar services.

     (f) The term “entity” means a partnership, association, trust,
joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.

     (g)  The term “foreign person” means any person that is not a
United States person.

     (h)  The term “human genomic data” refers to data representing the
nucleic acid sequences that constitute the entire set or a subset of the
genetic instructions found in a cell.

          (i)  The term “human ‘omic data” means data generated from
humans that characterizes or quantifies human biological molecule(s),
such as human genomic data, epigenomic data, proteomic data,
transcriptomic data, microbiomic data, or metabolomic data, as further
defined by regulations issued by the Attorney General pursuant to
section 2 of this order, which may be informed by the report described
in section 6 of this order.

     (j)  The term “person” means an individual or entity.

     (k)  The term “relevant agencies” means the Department of State,
the Department of the Treasury, the Department of Defense, the
Department of Commerce, the Department of Health and Human Services, the
Office of the United States Trade Representative, the Office of the
Director of National Intelligence, the Office of the National Cyber
Director, the Office of Management and Budget, the Federal Trade
Commission, the Federal Communications Commission, and any other agency
or office that the Attorney General determines appropriate.

     (l)  The term “sensitive personal data” means, to the extent
consistent with applicable law including sections 203(b)(1) and (b)(3)
of IEEPA, covered personal identifiers, geolocation and related sensor
data, biometric identifiers, human ‘omic data, personal health data,
personal financial data, or any combination thereof, as further defined
in regulations issued by the Attorney General pursuant to section 2 of
this order, and that could be exploited by a country of concern to harm
United States national security if that data is linked or linkable to
any identifiable United States individual or to a discrete and
identifiable group of United States individuals.  The term “sensitive
personal data” does not include:

          (i)    data that is a matter of public record, such as court
records or other government records, that is lawfully and generally
available to the public;

         (ii)   personal communications that are within the scope of
section 203(b)(1) of IEEPA; or

         (iii)  information or informational materials within the scope
of section 203(b)(3) of IEEPA.

     (m)  The term “United States Government-related data” means
sensitive personal data that, regardless of volume, the Attorney General
determines poses a heightened risk of being exploited by a country of
concern to harm United States national security and that:

          (i)    a transacting party identifies as being linked or
linkable to categories of current or recent former employees or
contractors, or former senior officials, of the Federal Government,
including the military, as specified in regulations issued by the
Attorney General pursuant to section 2 of this order;

          (ii)   is linked to categories of data that could be used to
identify current or recent former employees or contractors, or former
senior officials, of the Federal Government, including the military, as
specified in regulations issued by the Attorney General pursuant to
section 2 of this order; or

          (iii)  is linked or linkable to certain sensitive locations,
the geographical areas of which will be specified publicly, that are
controlled by the Federal Government, including the military.

     (n)  The term “United States person” means any United States
citizen, national, or lawful permanent resident; any individual admitted
to the United States as a refugee under 8 U.S.C. 1157 or granted asylum
under 8 U.S.C. 1158; any entity organized solely under the laws of the
United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including
foreign branches); or any person in the United States.

Sec. 8.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:

          (i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department
or agency, or the head thereof; or

          (ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of
Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or
legislative proposals.

     (b)  Nothing in this order shall prohibit transactions for the
conduct of the official business of the United States Government by
employees, grantees, or contractors thereof, or transactions conducted
pursuant to a grant, contract, or other agreement entered into with the
United States Government.

     (c)  Any disputes that may arise among agencies during the
consultation processes described in this order may be resolved pursuant
to the interagency process described in National Security Memorandum 2
of February 4, 2021 (Renewing the National Security Council System), or
any successor document.

     (d)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.

     (e)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right
or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity
by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.  
  
  
                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.  
  
  
  
THE WHITE HOUSE,  
    February 28, 2024.
