---
date: '2024-02-29'
published_time: 2024-02-29 14:31:50-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/02/29/proclamation-on-national-colorectal-cancer-awareness-month-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Proclamation on National Colorectal Cancer Awareness Month,\_2024"
---
 
The second leading cause of cancer death in the United States today is
colorectal cancer, and approximately 150,000 people in this country will
be diagnosed with the disease this year.  During National Colorectal
Cancer Awareness Month, we honor all the Americans we have lost to this
cancer, those currently living with or surviving it, and the loved ones
who stand firmly by their side.  We recommit to supporting all those
helping drive progress against cancer and delivering incredible care to
those facing this disease.  We affirm our goal of ending cancer as we
know it, once and for all.

As a country, we have made impressive progress in the struggle to end
cancer over the past several decades due to advancements in prevention,
early-detection measures, and new medicines and therapies.  Despite
remarkable breakthroughs, every year, more Americans are diagnosed with
cancer under the age of 50.  Earlier detection and improved treatment of
colorectal cancer continue to be critical goals of medical research. 
Further progress is also needed to improve outcomes for those who are
disproportionately impacted by this disease — including Americans over
the age of 45, Native Americans, Black Americans, and people with a
family history of colorectal cancer.  

There is still more work to be done to ensure more Americans can
prevent, detect, treat, and survive colorectal cancer.  That is why the
First Lady and I reignited the Cancer Moonshot with the ambition to cut
the cancer death rate by at least half in the next 25 years and improve
the experience of patients and families touched by cancer.  I worked
with the Congress to secure $2.5 billion in bipartisan funding for the
Advanced Research Projects Agency for Health (ARPA-H).  The scientists,
innovators, and public health professionals funded by ARPA-H are working
day and night to create a quantum leap in the prevention, detection, and
treatment of cancer and other deadly, life-threatening, and
life-altering diseases.  Along the way, they are forging partnerships to
deliver results to the people who need them most.  ARPA-H is also
partnering with the National Institutes of Health, the National Cancer
Institute, and other agencies to develop a new Biomedical Data Fabric
Toolbox for Cancer, which will ensure that knowledge gained through
research is available to as many experts as possible, with the goal of
delivering groundbreaking innovations to patients sooner. 

My Administration is also working tirelessly to get patients and their
loved ones some much-needed breathing room by making cancer treatments
more affordable.  I was proud to strengthen Medicaid and the Affordable
Care Act by expanding health care coverage to millions of Americans.
 Millions of people are saving $800 per year on health insurance
premiums as a result of this extension.  In addition, through the
Inflation Reduction Act, the total out-of-pocket prescription drug costs
for seniors and others with Medicare will be capped at $2,000 per year —
including amounts they are required to pay for expensive cancer
medications.  For those on Medicare, we have also expanded access to
health services that make it easier for patients and their families to
navigate the complexities of cancer care.  That includes dental services
for people receiving certain kinds of cancer treatment, guidance from
individuals who can help coordinate between health care teams, and
community-based social services that can provide support outside of the
health care system.

The independent United States Preventive Services Task Force recommends
regular colorectal cancer screenings for all Americans starting at age
45.  Colonoscopies and other preventive practices can detect cancer
early, averting the disease before it starts.  It is also recommended
that all Americans should consult a doctor if they experience symptoms
such as blood in their stool, a change in bowel activity, abdominal
pain, bloating, persistent cramps, or unexplained weight loss.  As part
of my Administration’s efforts to ensure people are able to receive
timely screening, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services
recently finalized a rule stating that no Medicare beneficiary has to
pay for a diagnostic colonoscopy after a positive non-invasive screening
test, like at-home stool-based tests.

Nearly every family in America has been touched by cancer ‑- including
mine.  During National Colorectal Cancer Awareness Month, let us
recognize the absolute courage and strength of patients, survivors, and
their families by coming together as a country to provide the support
and hope they need. 

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim March 2024 as
National Colorectal Cancer Awareness Month.  I encourage all citizens,
government agencies, private businesses, non-profit organizations, and
other groups to join in activities that will increase awareness and
prevention of colorectal cancer.  I also encourage Americans to visit
HealthCare.gov and learn more about signing up for health coverage under
the Affordable Care Act.  
  
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
twenty-ninth day of February, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-four, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-eighth.  
  

                              JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.  
