---
date: '2024-05-17'
modified_time: 2024-05-17 11:15:18-04:00
published_time: 2024-05-17 11:15:17-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/05/17/a-proclamation-on-world-trade-week-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on World Trade Week,\_2024"
---
 
        This week, we recommit to ensuring that global trade reflects
America’s highest values:  fairness, transparency, innovation, dignity,
and opportunity for American workers, American businesses, and American
families.

For decades, our country embraced trickle-down economics which rewarded
wealth, not work.  Companies took their jobs overseas to get cheaper
labor.  Factories closed down.  Manufacturing slowed.  Entire
communities became hollowed out as American workers lost their paychecks
and sense of pride.

My Administration is changing that.  Since I came into office, we have
focused on rebuilding our economy from the bottom up and middle out —
not the top down.  We have seen the results:  We have created over 15
million jobs since I took office, including nearly 800,000 manufacturing
jobs.  Unemployment has been at under 4 percent for more than 2 years
for the first time in more than 6 decades.  A record 17
million Americans are starting small businesses.  As a result of
investments during my Administration, factories are coming back,
producing everything from semiconductors to clean energy technology here
at home.  We have launched over 56,000 infrastructure projects across
the country — rebuilding our Nation’s roads, highways, bridges,
railroads, ports, airports, and so much more.

As we rebuild at home, we are also ensuring American workers and
businesses have a fair shot abroad.  Together with 13 nations across the
Indo-Pacific, we are creating a new Economic Framework that will
strengthen our supply chains, raise labor standards, advance our clean
energy transition, and combat the corruption that too often robs workers
of a fair share of the value they create.  I am taking action to protect
American workers and businesses from China’s unfair trade practices and
ensure they compete on a level playing field, including increasing
tariffs on $18 billion of imports from China to protect American workers
and businesses.  At the same time, we are working to increase trade with
Kenya, Taiwan, and other partners around the world.

No region impacts the economic security of the United States more
directly than the Western Hemisphere.  Together with 11 partners, we
have launched the Americas Partnership for Economic Prosperity to build
more resilient supply chains, mobilize high-standard investments in our
partners’ economies, and ensure that trade-enabled growth means
inclusive growth across all of our nations.  My Administration is
helping to better protect workers’ rights, end unfair labor practices,
and support free and fair union elections.  For example, through the
Partnership for Workers’ Rights we launched with Brazil, we are taking
collective action to promote workers’ empowerment and end violations of
workers’ rights, which is key to achieving sustainable economic growth.
  

My Administration has launched historic trade initiatives with the
European Union to promote clean manufacturing and create new jobs on
both sides of the Atlantic.  For example, through the Global Arrangement
on Sustainable Steel and Aluminum, we are partnering to tackle
non-market excess capacity and emissions intensity in the steel and
aluminum sectors, which threaten the competitiveness of our workers and
producers.  Together, we created the U.S.-E.U. Trade and Technology
Council that has deepened our cooperation on sustainable, high-standard
trade.

The United States is also working with our partners to combat non-market
policies and practices and structural overcapacity that distort global
markets, create unfair competitive advantages, and lead to dependencies
that make us vulnerable to coercion.  From the G7 to our partnerships
with developing countries and our engagement at the WTO, we are working
across the board to protect our workers, industries, and economic
security. 

As my Administration takes these steps, American workers will remain
front of mind.  Through the first-ever Presidential Memorandum on
Advancing Worker Empowerment, Rights, and High Labor Standards Globally,
my Administration is making workers’ rights central to all of our
international economic partnerships and diplomacy, ensuring that workers
get the dignity and opportunity they deserve.  We are working to expand
trade opportunities for communities that have too often been left behind
— including helping small businesses compete in international markets
through our new National Export Strategy and making it easier for small
and medium sized businesses to access loans from the Export-Import Bank
of the United States.  The Department of Commerce launched a Global
Diversity Export Initiative to help minority-owned businesses overcome
barriers to entering international trade. 

All across our country, American workers are writing the greatest
comeback story our Nation has ever known.  This week and every week, my
Administration recommits to ensuring our trade supports them, protects
them, and helps forge a better future for our Nation — one where no one
is left behind and everyone gets a fair shot.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim May 19 through May
25, 2024, as World Trade Week.  I call upon all Americans to observe
this week and to celebrate with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and
activities.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this seventeenth
day of May, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
