---
date: '2024-05-03'
published_time: 2024-05-03 13:03:22-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/05/03/a-proclamation-on-national-teacher-appreciation-day-and-national-teacher-appreciation-week-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Teacher Appreciation Day and National Teacher Appreciation\
  \ Week,\_2024"
---
 
     Teachers are the heart and soul of our Nation.  They care for our
Nation’s students, pass on knowledge to rising generations, and inspire
our children to dream up new possibilities for their futures.  The power
of a great teacher is profound, and — on National Teacher Appreciation
Day and during National Teacher Appreciation Week — we thank them for
their tireless efforts and recommit to taking care of our teachers, just
as they have taken care of all of us.

     Our Nation asks so much of our teachers, and that is why my
Administration supports them in all that we do.  Our American Rescue
Plan provided historic funding for schools to reopen safely after the
pandemic so that teachers could return to their classrooms.  It also
delivered critical support for schools — from supporting early childhood
programs and funding after-school and summer programs to hiring more
teachers, counselors, and school psychologists. 

     We also passed the most significant bipartisan gun safety law in
nearly 30 years because teaching should not be a life-threatening
profession and teachers should never be on the frontlines of the gun
violence epidemic.  The law enhanced background checks for people under
the age of 21 and gave States funding to enact red flag laws.  At the
same time, the law provided $1 billion to help schools hire and train
mental health counselors.  But we need to do more — I continue to call
on the Congress to implement commonsense gun safety laws that protect
our kids and teachers.

     Teachers deserve so much more breathing room:  As I said in my
State of the Union Address, let us give public school teachers a raise. 
Let us help relieve them of the student debt they took on to become
teachers.  My Administration has already worked to take the crushing
weight of student debt off teachers’ shoulders by fixing the Public
Student Loan Forgiveness (PSLF) program.  To date, we have canceled over
$62.8 billion in student debt for nearly 900,000 public service workers,
including teachers.  That is up from the only 7,000 workers who had
received PSLF when I took office.

     There is still much more to do to make sure our teachers are fully
supported.  My Budget proposes investing nearly $3 billion in teachers
and other educators, including $650 million to support pathways into the
profession, help keep great teachers in the profession, and increase the
diversity of the profession.  My Budget also proposes eliminating the
origination fees charged to borrowers on every new Federal student loan,
which would save the typical teacher $1,000 or more throughout the
repayment process.  Further, my Administration proposed a rule that
would boost Head Start teacher wages by $10,000 on average, ensuring
that they are getting the wages they deserve.

     The First Lady has reminded me over the years that for teachers,
teaching is more than what they do — it is who they are.  That sense of
purpose powers our Nation’s teachers every day — even through the long
hours they spend setting up classrooms, preparing lesson plans, and
educating our future leaders.  I have had the honor of meeting so many
of our Nation’s great teachers, who have poured their hearts into caring
for their students — not only by educating them but motivating and
inspiring them.  Teachers hold the kite strings that keep our national
ambitions aloft.  The future of our Nation is in their hands.  Today and
this week, may we all show them the gratitude they deserve.  We will
always have their backs.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim May
7, 2024, as National Teacher Appreciation Day and May 6 through May 10,
2024, as National Teacher Appreciation Week.  I call upon all Americans
to recognize the hard work and dedication of our Nation’s teachers and
to observe this day and this week by supporting teachers through
appropriate activities, events, and programs.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this third day of
May, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.  
   
   
   
   
                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.  
 
