---
date: '2024-05-02'
modified_time: 2024-05-02 14:19:34-04:00
published_time: 2024-05-02 13:45:54-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/05/02/a-proclamation-on-expanding-the-berryessa-snow-mountain-national-monument-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Expanding the Berryessa Snow Mountain National Monument,\_\
  2024"
---
 
     Through Proclamation 9298 of July 10, 2015, President Obama
established the Berryessa Snow Mountain National Monument (monument) to
protect an array of spectacular historic, cultural, geologic, and
ecological resources in the heart of northern California’s Inner Coast
Range.  Straddling the eastern edge of the monument boundary, Molok
Luyuk — which means “Condor Ridge” in the language of the Patwin people
— is a striking 11-mile north-to-south ridgeline that is sacred to the
Patwin people and contains a mosaic of historic objects and rare natural
communities supported by the unique geologic and hydrologic features of
the area.  The ridgeline, also known as Walker Ridge, is flanked by
chaparral-covered canyons, serpentinite outcroppings, oak and cypress
woodlands, and spring-fed meadows.  Lands within the Molok Luyuk area
show evidence of occupation by Indigenous peoples for more than 10,000
years.  The historical significance of Molok Luyuk contributes to its
cultural and spiritual significance to the Patwin people, and many other
Indigenous peoples from northern California also have ties to the area,
including the Pomo, Lake Miwok, Yuki, and Nomlaki.  While much of the
western slope of the ridge was designated as part of the monument by
Proclamation 9298, expanding the monument’s eastern boundary to include
the full Molok Luyuk area — from the ridgeline to the point where the
foothills recede into the flatlands of Bear Valley — will protect
additional objects of scientific and historic interest and enable
holistic management of a culturally significant landscape.  

     Since time immemorial, Molok Luyuk has held a deep cultural
significance for Tribal Nations of the Patwin people, including the
Yocha Dehe Wintun Nation, the Kletsel Dehe Band of Wintun Indians, and
the Cachil Dehe Band of Wintun Indians.  Their history is connected to
Molok Luyuk and their lifeways are intertwined with the features,
plants, and wildlife of the expansion area.  The name Molok Luyuk
recalls a time when condors were a common sight soaring above the ridge,
and the Patwin people would often celebrate them with dances and
ceremonies.  On a clear day, the highest points of Molok Luyuk offer a
commanding view of the surrounding rugged and undeveloped landscape,
encompassing Mount Shasta to the north, Mount Tamalpais to the
southwest, and Sutter Buttes to the east.  This viewshed, and
particularly the view of the sun rising over Sutter Buttes, is central
to the Patwin origin story and connected the Patwin communities that
once lived in the hills of Molok Luyuk and beyond with the River Patwin
communities that populated Bear Valley, which lies just to the east,
before they were displaced by trappers, ranchers, and miners.  The
expansion area includes sites of historic and ceremonial importance to
members of all three Patwin Nations along the ridgeline and around its
numerous natural springs.

     The area around Molok Luyuk has long contained numerous objects of
scientific and historic interest.  Molok Luyuk played an important role
in providing for the sustenance of the Patwin communities that were once
found in the area.  Occupants of nearby villages made seasonal forays to
the ridge and flanks of Molok Luyuk in search of manzanita berries,
clover, gray pine nuts, acorns, bulbs, and tubers, as well as to hunt
elk and deer.  Evidence of this cultural story marks the landscape today
through numerous lithic scatters — sites containing ancient tools, tool
fragments, and lithic flakes from tool production and maintenance —
found along Molok Luyuk and around the area’s cold springs.  These
scatter sites, which in some cases date back thousands of years, likely
represent hunting and gathering camps and sites used by generations of
Indigenous people for ceremonial purposes.  Artifacts from these sites
include obsidian tools made from sources in the region.  

     Trails once crossed and stretched out from the ridgeline.  These
trails, which ran atop the ridge and just inside the northern and
southern boundaries of the expansion area, are important to the history
of how Patwin communities were connected to other Indigenous communities
in northern California.  For instance, they enabled cultural exchanges
among Indigenous people in the region, connected villages, and
facilitated access to seasonal camps and ceremonial sites.  Knowledge of
the trails lives within Patwin oral history and cultural expertise and
has been documented in ethnographic studies.  Some trails were part of a
larger interregional network by which other northern California
Indigenous peoples would access Molok Luyuk and the healing hot springs
that today lie on private land just to the south of the expansion area. 

     A tumultuous geologic history underpins the expansion area’s
diverse ecological communities.  The backbone of Molok Luyuk is an
ophiolite formed by unusual ultramafic rocks.  Serpentinite, as this
rock is more commonly known, was originally formed deep within the
Earth’s mantle and eventually thrust upward through the forces of plate
tectonics.  The landscape is subtly marked by the smoky gray-green of
serpentine rocks and their derivative soils.  Rare serpentine soils
resulting from eroded serpentinite dominate the ridgeline and eastern
flank of Molok Luyuk.  These soils have unusually high levels of
magnesium and iron and very low levels of nutrients, such as calcium and
phosphorus, that are critical for the survival of most plants.  This
soil chemistry imposed evolutionary pressure resulting in a profusion of
unique species and habitats that are inhospitable to non-native species
that may dominate elsewhere.

     Protecting serpentine soils like those found in the expansion area
is essential to the preservation of California’s endemic and rare plant
life.  While serpentine soils occur on less than 1.5 percent of
California’s land base, they are home to nearly 15 percent of California
endemic species and nearly 11 percent of its rare plant taxa.
 Consistent with this State-wide data, the great majority of
special-status plant taxa within the Molok Luyuk area occur primarily on
serpentine soils.  

     Molok Luyuk’s diverse topography and geology, which also include
sandstone and shale, create the conditions for its 13 distinct plant
communities, 9 of which spring from serpentine soils.  These habitats
include serpentine and non-serpentine chaparral, McNab and Sargent
cypress and blue and live oak woodlands, serpentine riparian woodland,
native wildflower fields, and serpentine seeps.  This diversity of
plants and plant communities provided the wide array of foods, tools,
and medicines that the Patwin gathered from Molok Luyuk.  Nearly 500
native California plant taxa have been identified within the expansion
area, including at least 38 different special-status plant taxa.  The
expansion area also includes suitable habitat for another 30
special-status plants that have been documented in the surrounding area.
 Numerous studies — particularly those focused on species that grow on
serpentine soils — have made use of botanical samples from the expansion
area, and protecting these rare and sensitive plants will preserve
opportunities for important future botanical research.  

     Brilliant fields of native wildflowers and bunchgrasses are
scattered throughout Molok Luyuk.  Springtime brings a kaleidoscopic
display of butter-yellow golden fairy lantern, flame-like woolly Indian
paintbrush, and brilliant orange starbursts of flame ragwort, all of
which are native species that thrive in the area’s serpentine meadows.
 The delicate violet flowers of the Indian Valley brodiaea, a
bulbiferous perennial herb that is listed as a State of California
endangered species, can also be found tucked into serpentine seeps.
 Throughout the summer, the small white flowers of the drymary dwarf
flax, a Bureau of Land Management (BLM) sensitive species that is
endemic to California, are widespread on Molok Luyuk’s higher elevation
serpentine slopes.  

     Unusual serpentine wetlands occur along Molok Luyuk, as well as on
downslope benches and along Highway 20 near the Colusa-Lake county line.
 Many of these wetlands are fed by the numerous seeps and springs
scattered across the area, which are of critical importance to the
area’s botanical richness.  These include Barrel Springs in the
northeastern portion of the expansion area, Cold Spring near the center
of the ridgeline, and Til Jones and Eaton Springs in the south, along
with numerous other unnamed springs.  Protecting these springs, and the
wetlands they feed, is critical to preserving the rare and endemic
species that thrive within the monument and expansion area — and to
preserving opportunities for future scientific study.  

     Despite substantial fragmentation due to fires in 2008 and 2018,
McNab cypress woodland, a California-designated sensitive natural
community that is vulnerable at both the global and State scales,
dominates portions of the northern, higher elevations.  In addition to
being a rare and vulnerable natural community of scientific interest,
the McNab cypress, for which these woodlands are named, have been used
for Patwin ceremonies and medicines for generations and continue to be
used today. 

     A wide variety of mammals, birds, reptiles, and amphibians use or
make their homes in Molok Luyuk.  More than 80 species of birds have
been recorded in the area, including 18 special-status species.  Both
bald and golden eagles can be observed gliding through the sky above
Molok Luyuk.  Foothill yellow-legged frogs, a BLM sensitive species, can
be found in lower-elevation streams within the expansion area.  Members
of the oldest free-ranging tule elk herd in California also reside
within the expansion area.  Tule elk, which are endemic to California,
had vanished from the wild until a formerly captive herd was released in
1922 in Colusa County.  Other wildlife species that make their homes in
Molok Luyuk include black-tail deer, black bear, coyote, bobcat, gopher
snake, and western rattlesnake.  The slopes of Molok Luyuk provide an
avenue for wildlife to move from the lower elevations of Bear Valley to
the higher elevation of the ridgeline.  Conserving this expansion area
will fortify protection for the critical north-south migration corridor
provided by the existing monument.    

     As night falls over Molok Luyuk, other residents of the area
emerge.  At least 14 species of bats occur in the area, including the
western red bat, pallid bat, and Townsend’s big-eared bat, each of which
is a California Species of Special Concern.  The night skies through
which they fly are remarkably unmarred by light pollution, which can
disturb many species of bats as well as other mammals and birds, and
provide increasingly rare and extraordinary stargazing opportunities to
those who venture out after sunset.  

     In light of threats, including impacts from climate change,
increased recreational use, and development potential, expanding the
boundaries of the Berryessa Snow Mountain National Monument to protect
the area described above will preserve a diverse array of natural and
scientific resources and cultural and historic legacy sites, ensuring
that the scientific and historic values of this area endure for the
benefit of all Americans.  The expansion area contains numerous objects
of historic and scientific interest, and it also provides opportunities
for those who seek out places of beauty and botanical wonder, whether
through hiking, hunting, scenic driving, camping, wildflower viewing, or
lying under a vast expanse of undimmed starry sky.  

    WHEREAS, section 320301 of title 54, United States Code (the
“Antiquities Act”), authorizes the President, in his discretion, to
declare by public proclamation historic landmarks, historic and
prehistoric structures, and other objects of historic or scientific
interest that are situated upon the lands owned or controlled by the
Federal Government to be national monuments, and to reserve as a part
thereof parcels of land, the limits of which shall be confined to the
smallest area compatible with the proper care and management of the
objects to be protected; and

    WHEREAS, I find that each of the objects identified above, and
objects of the type identified above within the area described herein,
are objects of historic or scientific interest in need of protection
under section 320301 of title 54, United States Code, regardless of
whether they are expressly identified as an object of historic or
scientific interest in the text of this proclamation; and 

     WHEREAS, I find that there are threats to the objects identified in
this proclamation, and in the absence of a reservation under the
Antiquities Act, the objects identified in this proclamation are not
adequately protected by applicable law or administrative designations,
thus making a national monument designation and reservation necessary to
protect the objects of historic and scientific interest identified above
for current and future generations; and

    WHEREAS, I find that the boundaries of the monument reserved by this
proclamation represent the smallest area compatible with the proper care
and management of the objects of scientific or historic interest
identified above, as required by the Antiquities Act; and

    WHEREAS, it is in the public interest to ensure the preservation,
restoration, and protection of the objects of scientific and historic
interest identified above;

    NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by the authority vested in me by section 320301 of
title 54, United States Code, hereby proclaim the objects identified
above that are situated upon lands and interests in lands owned or
controlled by the Federal Government to be part of the Berryessa Snow
Mountain National Monument and, for the purpose of protecting those
objects, reserve as part thereof all lands and interests in lands that
are owned or controlled by the Federal Government within the boundaries
described on the accompanying map, which is attached hereto and forms a
part of this proclamation.  The reserved Federal lands and interests in
lands within the expansion area encompass approximately 13,696 acres.
 As a result of the distribution of the objects throughout the area, the
boundaries described on the accompanying map are confined to the
smallest area compatible with the proper care and management of the
objects of historic or scientific interest identified above. 

     Nothing in this proclamation shall change the management of the
areas protected under Proclamation 9298.  The terms, conditions, and
management direction provided by Proclamation 9298, including any term
limiting the construction or effect of Proclamation 9298, are
incorporated by reference and shall apply to the area reserved by this
proclamation except to the extent that they are inconsistent with a
provision in this proclamation. 

    All Federal lands and interests in lands described on the
accompanying map are hereby appropriated and withdrawn from all forms of
entry, location, selection, sale, or other disposition under the public
land laws; from location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and
from disposition under all laws relating to mineral and geothermal
leasing, other than by exchange that facilitates the remediation,
monitoring, or reclamation of historic mining operations under
applicable law or otherwise furthers the protective purposes of the
monument.  

    The enlargement of the boundary is subject to valid existing rights.
 If the Federal Government subsequently acquires any lands or interests
in lands not currently owned or controlled by the Federal Government
within the boundaries described on the accompanying map, such lands and
interests in lands shall be reserved as a part of the monument, and
objects of the type identified above that are situated upon those lands
and interests in lands shall be part of the monument, upon acquisition
of ownership or control by the Federal Government.  

    The Secretary of the Interior (Secretary), through the BLM, shall
manage the expansion area pursuant to applicable legal authorities, as a
unit of the National Landscape Conservation System, and in accordance
with the terms, conditions, and management direction provided by this
proclamation and, as described above, those provided by Proclamation
9298.  

    For purposes of protecting and restoring the objects identified
above, the Secretary shall include the lands within the expansion area
in the management plan for the monument provided for in Proclamation
9298.  The Secretary shall promulgate such rules and regulations for the
management of the expansion area as deemed appropriate.  

     Consistent with the direction in Proclamation 9298, in recognition
of the importance of Tribal participation in the care and management of
the objects identified above, and to ensure that management decisions
are informed by and reflect Tribal expertise and Indigenous Knowledge,
the Secretary shall explore entering into one or more memoranda of
understanding with interested Tribal Nations to set forth terms,
pursuant to applicable laws, regulations, and policies, for
co-stewardship of the expansion area, as well as for educational and
other outreach efforts regarding the history of the Tribal Nations in
the area and the name Molok Luyuk.  

    In order to reflect the historic, spiritual, and cultural
significance of Molok Luyuk to the Patwin Tribes as discussed throughout
this proclamation, the geographic feature identified in the Federal
Geographic Names Information System as Feature 237183 shall be renamed
Molok Luyuk.  The Secretary and the Board of Geographic Names shall take
any necessary and appropriate steps to make this change in the
Geographic Names Information System.  Except as necessary for the care
and management of the objects identified above, no new rights-of-way
shall be authorized within the area reserved by this proclamation.    

     The Secretary shall issue a travel management plan that authorizes
motorized and non-motorized mechanized vehicle use, including mountain
biking, so long as such use is consistent with the care and management
of the objects identified above.  Further, the Secretary shall monitor
motorized and non-motorized mechanized vehicle use and designated roads
and trails to ensure proper care and management of the objects
identified above.

     The Secretary shall evaluate opportunities to enter into one or
more agreements with governments, including State, local, and Tribal,
regarding protection of the objects identified above during wildland
fire prevention and response efforts.

     If any provision of this proclamation, including its application to
a particular parcel of land, is held to be invalid, the remainder of
this proclamation and its application to other parcels of land shall not
be affected thereby.

     Nothing in this proclamation shall be deemed to revoke any existing
withdrawal, reservation, or appropriation; however, the monument shall
be the dominant reservation.    
Warning is hereby given to all unauthorized persons not to appropriate,
injure, destroy, or remove any feature of the monument and not to locate
or settle upon any of the lands thereof.  

    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
second day of May, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and
of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.

                        JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
