---
date: '2024-05-02'
modified_time: 2024-05-02 14:40:45-04:00
published_time: 2024-05-02 14:36:31-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/05/02/a-proclamation-on-expanding-the-san-gabriel-mountains-national-monument-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Expanding the San Gabriel Mountains National Monument,\_\
  2024"
---
 
     Through Proclamation 9194 of October 10, 2014, President Obama
established the San Gabriel Mountains National Monument (monument) to
protect the rich cultural history, striking geologic features, and
vibrant ecological diversity contained within a portion of the Angeles
National Forest.  Situated in the mountains north of Los Angeles, the
monument is a verdant oasis that contains abundant and distinctive flora
and fauna; unique geology; and evidence of centuries of occupation and
use by Tribal Nations and Indigenous peoples, Spanish missionaries and
colonists, Mexican rancheros, and Euro-American settlers and
prospectors.  In addition to protecting these and other objects of
historic and scientific interest, the monument’s pristine natural lands
and proximity to Los Angeles make it a unique place of rejuvenation and
recreation for the people of the ever-changing urban and suburban
communities of greater Los Angeles.

     Expanding the monument to include the expanse of the Angeles
National Forest that stretches south and west from the current boundary
to the National Forest boundary near foothill communities of Los Angeles
will protect additional objects of scientific and historic interest.
 This expansion area contains evidence of thousands of years of use and
occupation by Indigenous peoples, as well as evidence of more recent
human uses, including the ruins of grand recreation resorts and of a
missile unit built during the Cold War.  A diversity of animals, birds,
reptiles, and other wildlife, including numerous threatened and
endangered species, live among the unique geological and ecological
features of the expansion area, including its unusual canyons,
chaparral, and coastal sage scrub lands, and use the area to travel from
the lowlands in the south to the soaring mountains in the north.  

     Since time immemorial, the rich landscape within the expansion area
has sustained a mosaic of Indigenous peoples, including the people known
as the Gabrielino, Kizh, or Tongva, and the Chumash Kitanemuk, Serrano,
and Tataviam peoples.  The displacement of these peoples from the area
began between 1770 and 1816, when Spanish missionaries forcibly
assimilated the region’s Indigenous families into surrounding missions,
and continued past California’s admission into the Union.  Today, their
descendants are part of Tribal Nations and other Indigenous peoples in
the region, some of whose members continue to use the area for
ceremonial purposes, as well as for collecting traditional plants
important for basketry, food, and medicine.

     Evidence of many eras of human history can be found in the
expansion area.  Dozens of known sites shed light on the daily life and
activities of Indigenous peoples, including seasonal habitation, plant
and mineral resource collection, food processing, tool manufacturing,
and transportation corridors.  One known site contains a seasonal
encampment where there is evidence of food processing and tool
production use from 1150 to 1771, including midden, flaked lithics and
tools, ground stones, and hearths and earth ovens.  The area also
contains evidence of use associated with permanent Indigenous villages
that were located adjacent to the expansion area at the base of the
area’s canyons, including the Tongva villages of Muuhonga and Tohuunga.
 

     Other sites contain lithic materials, including fused shale and
obsidian that came from areas far to the north.  These materials provide
evidence of the ancient Indigenous trade routes that crisscrossed the
area, bringing small game, deer, acorns, sage, piñon nuts, yucca,
elderberry, and manzanita berry, among other resources, south into the
Los Angeles Basin, and asphaltum, shell and soapstone cooking vessels,
beads, pipes, effigies, pendants, and comals north into the mountains.  

     Mining made its way to the San Gabriel Mountains in the 19th
century, following the discovery of gold in Placerita Canyon in 1842.
 Visitors to the area today can still see evidence of this first gold
rush, including the remains of a mine shaft and ore cart rails of the
Dawn Mine and mill site, which remained in operation until 1954.  The
remains of the Tujunga Mining District, including the shafts of the
Josephine Mine above Mill Creek, evidence a second minor gold rush in
the late 1880s.

     The expansion area also contains evidence of Euro-American settlers
who looked to these lands to provide mineral resources, wood for fuel
and construction, other building materials, and water.  Near Little
Tujunga Canyon, three well-preserved limekilns, eligible for inclusion
in the National Register of Historic Places, were constructed around
1870 with local limestone and granite cobbles within a mortar matrix.
 Visitors to the area can also traverse trails first developed by
Indigenous peoples and later modified by Euro-American settlers.  For
example, ranchero and later Mayor of Los Angeles Benjamin Davis Wilson,
also known as Don Benito, using labor from Indigenous and Spanish
workers, built the trail known today as the Mount Wilson Trail to
transport timber to his rancho.  The Gabrielino Trail, which the
Congress designated as America’s first National Recreation Trail in
1970, incorporates trails that another 19th century trail maker, Wilbur
Sturtevant, developed possibly along established Indigenous routes.  

     The expansion area also contains evidence of highly popular
recreational pursuits of the Great Hiking Era of the early 20th century,
when throngs of hikers and outdoor enthusiasts went to the mountains of
southern California.  This evidence includes the remains of the Mount
Lowe Electric Railway (Railway), which was opened in 1893 to transport
passengers from foothill communities to three impressive mountain
resorts.  The Railway, which is listed in the National Register of
Historic Places as a Historic District, was the only scenic mountain
electric traction railway ever built in the United States and became a
tourist destination because of its remarkable location and engineering
audacity.  It recorded an estimated three million visitors between 1893
and 1938.

     Today’s visitors who hike to Echo Mountain will see portions of the
railroad bed and crossties, a platform, trestle foundations, and
scattered remains of the powerhouse’s massive cog-wheel or “bullwheel”
used to pull the incline car up the mountain.  Nearby, visitors can also
observe the remains of a once grand resort served by the Railway,
including a staircase and the foundation footprint of a 70-room hotel,
the remains of a zoo, the foundation of an observatory and telescope
pedestal, two large concrete water tanks, and rock retaining walls
outlining the tennis courts and casino.  Visitors can also see remnants
of a three million candlepower searchlight installed on the mountain
from the 1893 Columbia Exposition World’s Fair, and a largely intact,
original “echophone” used by visitors to hear the canyon’s echoes.  A
trestle abutment of the Railway can also be found near the Mount Lowe
Campground.  Nearby, at the head of Grand Canyon, visitors can see the
rear wall of another of the resorts served by the Railway, the 12-room
Swiss-style Ye Alpine Tavern.

     To the north and west of the Railway, ruins of hike-in camps
include the foundation of Switzer’s Camp, developed by Commodore Perry
Switzer in the early 1880s.  That camp hosted Henry Ford, Shirley
Temple, and numerous other celebrities.

     The southeastern portion of the expansion area contains 64 cabins
that were once part of the Big Santa Anita Canyon Summer Home Tract.
 This development was established to respond to the burgeoning early
20th century desire to be closer to, and have second homes in, natural
settings.  The tract originally contained 88 cabins and 12 associated
campgrounds.  Eligible for inclusion in the National Register of
Historic Places, the cabins epitomized the rustic architectural design
style of the early 20th century, and are notable for the care taken in
sensitively siting them into the rugged topography.  

     Above El Prieto Canyon, in the southern portion of the expansion
area, is the homestead site of a former cabin built and lived in by
Robert Owens.  Owens was a formerly enslaved person who built a thriving
wood and building supply business in and around the canyon, becoming the
wealthiest African American in Los Angeles County in 1865. 

     The expansion area also includes the historic Big Tujunga Dam,
completed in 1931, and Brown Mountain Dam, constructed by the United
States Forest Service (Forest Service) in 1943.  The Lincoln Avenue
Water Company water system is also in the area, which was constructed in
the 1880s and is eligible for inclusion in the National Register of
Historic Places.  

     The Los Pinetos Nike Missile site, which is eligible for inclusion
in the National Register of Historic Places, played a vital role in
United States national defense during the Cold War era.  This site,
along with the Mount Gleason Nike Missile site, which was destroyed by a
wildfire in 2009, is among the 300 Nike Missile sites constructed across
the country from 1955 to 1958 that were intended to serve as the last
line of defense against Soviet bomber planes.  The Los Pinetos Nike
Missile site is unusual because its launch, administrative, and battery
control facilities are located within a single line of sight.  

     In addition to extensive historical resources, the expansion area
reflects massive geologic forces over hundreds of millions of years that
created an exceptional landscape, providing views deep into the ancient
Earth.  The steep and rugged San Gabriel Mountains are one of the
fastest growing mountain ranges in the world.  These mountains form a
major part of the east-west trending Transverse Ranges of southern
California, a portion of which is in the expansion area.  They were
formed from eons of geological movement during the Mesozoic and Cenozoic
Eras when the geologic Farallon Plate and the North American Plate
crashed together.  Dragged as much as 50 degrees in some places by these
powerful forces, the San Gabriel Mountains have an unusual east-west
orientation, instead of the more typical north-south orientation.

     Around Mount Lowe, the uplift of rare anorthosite complex rocks
that are 1.2 billion years old, including anorthosite pluton, syenite,
and mafic rocks, reveals the dramatic twisting that can occur as
mountains are formed.  Evidence of this geological process typically
lies far below the surface, making the area a hotbed of geological study
and a natural classroom for the public.  Around Mendenhall Peak, the
bands and swirls of 1.7 to 1.8 billion-year-old Mendenhall Gneiss, the
region’s oldest rocks, are exposed.

    The expansion area also contains scientifically important
paleontological resources, particularly invertebrate fossils such as
oysters and gastropods, at sites including Gold Canyon near Little
Tujunga Canyon.  

     The expansion area is composed of many distinct and diverse
ecosystem zones that support rich biodiversity, including more than 500
native plants and fungi, as well as important habitat including riparian
woodlands, montane hardwood and conifer forests, coastal sage scrub,
alluvial sage scrub, and extensive chaparral.  The area also provides
important connectivity to enable species to move from the foothills of
the south to the soaring mountains of the north.  

     Perennial streams, springs, and associated riparian areas, and
numerous seasonal tributaries, all support wetland-dependent plant
species such as the California muhly and the Sonoran maiden fern, the
latter of which is designated as rare by the State of California.  These
riparian areas also provide critical habitat for sensitive fish and
amphibians, including the threatened Santa Ana speckled dace and the
threatened Santa Ana sucker found in Big Tujunga Creek, and the
endangered Arroyo Toad found in both the Arroyo Seco and Big Tujunga
Creek.  Habitats for the steelhead trout and the Arroyo chub, a State
species of special concern, are also found in Arroyo Seco and Big
Tujunga Creek.

     A rich variety of rare plants can be found in the expansion area,
including the San Gabriel manzanita, San Gabriel Mountains leather oak,
San Gabriel Mountains sunflower, San Gabriel bedstraw, and San Gabriel
Mountains dudleya, all of which are found only or primarily in the San
Gabriel Mountains, and the California muhly, fragrant pitcher sage,
Greata’s aster, and Plummer’s mariposa lily, found only in southern
California.  Other rare species include the Mount Gleason paintbrush,
California satintail, and Chaparral yucca, which is part of an
extraordinary, mutually beneficial partnership with the interdependent
California yucca moth.  

     While extremely reduced from its overall historic range, pockets of
alluvial scrub habitat, particularly around Big Tujunga Canyon, provide
a home for the rare endemic Davidson’s bushmallow.  Southern
California’s bigcone Douglas-fir, which is well adapted to the region’s
natural wildfire regime, is present in strongholds around San Gabriel
Peak, the Switzer Falls Trail, and south of Mount Wilson, providing
important nesting and roosting habitat for the California spotted owl,
which the United States Fish and Wildlife Service has proposed to list
as endangered.  

     Coastal sage scrub, among the most threatened plant communities in
California, occurs primarily at elevations below 2,500 feet south of
Mount Wilson and along the north side of Big Tujunga Creek.  This rare
plant community includes California sagebrush, brittlebush, California
buckwheat, and various types of sage.  Coastal sage scrub, which can be
found in Placerita Canyon, provides critical habitat for the threatened
coastal California gnatcatcher.  

     Montane hardwood and conifer forests south of Big Tujunga Bridge
and Mount Wilson are typified by live oak, bigleaf maple, California
bay, incense cedar, Pacific madrone, Coulter pine, sugar pine, and
California incense cedar, as well as understory species such as
ceanothus, coffeeberry, gooseberry, and currants.  These forests provide
habitat for a wide variety of wildlife such as black bears, mule deer,
various reptiles, birds, and butterflies, as well as fish and amphibians
that rely on the cool water found there.  Birds that can be found
seasonally or year-round in the expansion area include the endangered
California condor and Least Bell’s vireo; the threatened western
population of yellow-billed cuckoo; the Swainson’s hawk, which is listed
as threatened by the State of California; the Peregrine falcon; and the
California-listed willow flycatcher.  The southwestern pond turtle,
which the United States Fish and Wildlife Service has proposed to list
as threatened, is also found in the area, along with the two-striped
garter snake and the Southern California legless lizard, which are
designated as sensitive species by the Angeles National Forest.  Many
species of bats use the area’s canyons and waters, including the pallid
bat and big free-tailed bat, both California special status species,
along with migrants and resident bats, such as the hoary bat, Yuma
myotis, small-footed myotis, canyon bat, big brown bat, Mexican
free-tailed bat, long-eared myotis, and California myotis.

     In addition to these key habitats, the area also contains important
migration corridors that connect vulnerable habitats throughout the
greater region.  A striking example in the northwest portion of the
expansion area is Bear Divide, which funnels thousands of migratory
birds through a narrow pass along the Pacific Flyway, the primary avian
migration route on the West Coast that extends from Central America to
the Arctic.  Another important corridor is the Arroyo Seco-Hahamongna
Corridor, which connects the south-central portion of the expansion area
to other nearby natural areas outside the Angeles National Forest
boundary.  

     Despite its proximity to urban Los Angeles, the expansion area
includes secluded and largely undeveloped areas such as the 4,700-acre
Arroyo Seco Inventoried Roadless Area, which is an iconic landscape
feature.

     Protecting the expansion area will preserve an important spiritual,
cultural, prehistoric, and historic landscape; maintain a diverse array
of natural and scientific resources; and help ensure that the objects of
historic and scientific interest within the area endure for the benefit
of all Americans.  As described above, the expansion area contains
numerous objects of historic and scientific interest in need of
protection.  In addition, it provides exceptional outdoor recreational
opportunities, including hiking, hunting, fishing, biking, horseback
riding, backpacking, scenic driving, and wildlife viewing, all of which
are important to residents of and visitors to the Los Angeles region.

     WHEREAS, section 320301 of title 54, United States Code (the
“Antiquities Act”), authorizes the President, in his discretion, to
declare by public proclamation historic landmarks, historic and
prehistoric structures, and other objects of historic or scientific
interest that are situated upon the lands owned or controlled by the
Federal Government to be national monuments, and to reserve as a part
thereof parcels of land, the limits of which shall be confined to the
smallest area compatible with the proper care and management of the
objects to be protected; and  
WHEREAS, I find that each of the objects identified above, and objects
of the type identified above within the area described herein, are
objects of historic or scientific interest in need of protection under
section 320301 of title 54, United States Code, regardless of whether
they are expressly identified as an object of historic or scientific
interest in the text of this proclamation; and

     WHEREAS, I find that there are threats to the objects identified in
this proclamation, and in the absence of a reservation under the
Antiquities Act, the objects identified in this proclamation are not
adequately protected by applicable law or administrative designations,
thus making a national monument designation and reservation necessary to
protect the objects of historic and scientific interest identified above
for current and future generations; and   

     WHEREAS, I find that the boundaries of the monument reserved by
this proclamation represent the smallest area compatible with the proper
care and management of the objects of scientific or historic interest
identified above, as required by the Antiquities Act; and

     WHEREAS, it is in the public interest to ensure the preservation,
restoration, and protection of the objects of scientific and historic
interest identified above;

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by the authority vested in me by section 320301 of
title 54, United States Code, hereby proclaim the objects identified
above that are situated upon lands and interests in lands owned or
controlled by the Federal Government to be part of the San Gabriel
Mountains National Monument and, for the purpose of protecting those
objects, reserve as part thereof all lands and interests in lands that
are owned or controlled by the Federal Government within the boundaries
described on the accompanying map, which is attached hereto and forms a
part of this proclamation.  The reserved Federal lands and interests in
lands within the expansion area encompass approximately 150,919 acres.
 As a result of the distribution of the objects throughout the area, the
boundaries described on the accompanying map are confined to the
smallest area compatible with the proper care and management of the
objects of historic or scientific interest identified above.

     Nothing in this proclamation shall change the management of the
areas protected under Proclamation 9194.  The terms, conditions, and
management direction provided by Proclamation 9194, including any term
limiting the construction or effect of Proclamation 9194, are
incorporated by reference and shall apply to the area reserved by this
proclamation except to the extent that they are inconsistent with a
provision in this proclamation.

     All Federal lands and interests in lands described on the
accompanying map are hereby appropriated and withdrawn from all forms of
entry, location, selection, sale, or other disposition under the public
land laws or laws applicable to the Forest Service, other than by
exchange that furthers the protective purposes of the monument; from
location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and from disposition
under all laws relating to mineral and geothermal leasing.

     This proclamation is subject to valid existing rights.  If the
Federal Government subsequently acquires any lands or interests in lands
not currently owned or controlled by the Federal Government within the
boundaries described on the accompanying map, such lands and interests
in lands shall be reserved as a part of the monument, and objects of the
type identified above that are situated upon those lands and interests
in lands shall be part of the monument, upon acquisition of ownership or
control by the Federal Government.

     The Secretary of Agriculture (Secretary), through the Forest
Service, shall manage the expansion area pursuant to applicable legal
authorities and in accordance with the terms, conditions, and management
direction provided by this proclamation and, as described above, those
provided by Proclamation 9194.  

     The Secretary shall prepare, in consultation with the Secretary of
the Interior, a management plan for the expansion area set forth in this
proclamation, which shall include provisions for continuing outdoor
recreational opportunities consistent with the proper care and
management of the objects identified above, and shall promulgate such
rules and regulations for the management of the expansion area as the
Secretary shall deem appropriate.  At the Secretary’s discretion, such
management plan may be included as a component of the existing
management plan developed pursuant to Proclamation 9194.  The Secretary
shall provide for maximum public involvement in the development of the
management plan, including consultation with Tribal Nations and
meaningful engagement with Indigenous peoples that have cultural,
traditional, or ancestral ties to the area, with community
environmental, conservation, health, and justice organizations, and with
State and local governments.  To the maximum extent practicable, the
Secretary shall carefully incorporate Indigenous Knowledge in the
development and implementation of the management plan, work with Tribal
Nations to appropriately protect that knowledge, and, to the extent
practicable, explain any limitations on the Secretary’s ability to
protect such information from disclosure before it is shared with the
Forest Service.  The management plan shall provide for the protection
and interpretation of the objects of scientific and historic interest
identified above.  The management plan shall also provide for continued
public access to the area to the extent consistent with the protection
of the objects identified above.  

     The Secretary, through the Forest Service, shall establish an
advisory committee under chapter 10 of title 5, United States Code, to
provide information and advice regarding the development of the
management plan and management of the expansion area.  The advisory
committee shall consist of a fair and balanced representation of
interested stakeholders, including State agencies and local governments;
Tribal Nations and Indigenous peoples with cultural, traditional, or
ancestral ties to the area; recreational users; conservation
organizations; wildlife, hunting, and fishing organizations; the
scientific community; business owners; and the general public in the
region.  

     Nothing in this proclamation shall be deemed to revoke any existing
withdrawal, reservation, or appropriation; however, the monument shall
be the dominant reservation.  
Warning is hereby given to all unauthorized persons not to appropriate,
injure, destroy, or remove any feature of the monument and not to locate
or settle upon any of the lands thereof.

     If any provision of this proclamation, including its application to
a particular parcel of land, is held to be invalid, the remainder of
this proclamation and its application to other parcels of land shall not
be affected thereby.  
      
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this second day of
May, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.

                        JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
