---
date: '2024-05-03'
published_time: 2024-05-03 13:02:57-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/05/03/a-proclamation-on-days-of-remembrance-of-the-victims-of-the-holocaust-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Days of Remembrance of the Victims of the Holocaust,\_2024"
---
 
     During *Yom HaShoah* and these days of remembrance, we mourn the
six million Jews who were systematically targeted and murdered in the
Holocaust, one of the darkest chapters in human history.  We also mourn
the Roma, Sinti, Slavs, people with disabilities, LGBTQI+ people, racial
minorities, and political dissidents who were killed or endured abuse by
the Nazis and their collaborators, as well as those who risked or lost
their lives to protect others.  We honor the memories of the victims,
the courage of the survivors, and the heroism of those who stood up to
the Nazis, and we recommit ourselves to making real the promise of
“Never Again.”

     I often reflect on memories of sitting around our kitchen table
where my father would educate my siblings and me about the horrors of
the Holocaust.  Entire families wiped out.  Communities savagely
destroyed.  Survivors left with memories and traumas that will never go
away — even as the tattoos etched into their skin by the Nazis fade and
the number of survivors dwindles.  My dad taught us that silence is
complicity — a lesson I have passed down to my children and
grandchildren by taking them to the Dachau concentration camp in
Germany.  As United States Senator, as Vice President, and now as
President, I have met with many Holocaust survivors, promising them that
our Nation would neither forget what they endured nor ever again stand
by silently in the face of antisemitism.

     The charge has never been more urgent than in the aftermath of
Hamas’ vicious terrorist attack on October 7th — the deadliest day for
Jews since the Holocaust.  Among the 1,200 innocent people who were
slaughtered and the hundreds taken hostage were elderly survivors of the
Shoah, who were forced to relive the horrors they thought they had
escaped decades ago.  My Administration is working tirelessly to free
the hostages who have been held by Hamas for over half a year — and as I
have said to their families, we will not rest until we bring them home.
 

     While Jews across the country and around the world are still coping
with the trauma of that day and its aftermath, we have seen an alarming
surge in antisemitism at home and abroad that resurfaces painful scars
of millennia of antisemitism and hate against the Jewish people.  This
includes harassment and calls for violence against Jews — in our
schools, in our communities, and online.  This blatant antisemitism is
reprehensible and dangerous.  Antisemitic hate speech has absolutely no
place on college campuses or anywhere else in our country.  As
Americans, we cannot stay silent as Jews are attacked, harassed, and
targeted.  We must also forcefully push back attempts to ignore, deny,
distort, or revise the history of Nazi atrocities during the Holocaust
or Hamas’ murders and other atrocities committed on October 7th —
including the appalling and unforgiveable use of rape and sexual assault
to terrorize and torture Jewish women and girls.

     My commitment to the safety of the Jewish people and the security
of Israel is ironclad.  Under the first-ever National Strategy to Combat
Antisemitism, my Administration is mobilizing the full force of the
Federal Government to crack down on antisemitism and to ensure hate has
no safe harbor in America.  We clarified civil rights protections for
Jews under Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.  The Department of
Education is leading investigations into antisemitism on college
campuses.  The Department of Justice is investigating and prosecuting
hate crimes.  The Federal Bureau of Investigation is focused on
delivering security resources to Jewish communities.  We provided the
largest-ever increase in funding for the physical security of
non-profits, including synagogues, Jewish community centers, and Jewish
schools.  I appointed Deborah Lipstadt, a Holocaust expert, to be the
first-ever Ambassador-level Special Envoy to Monitor and Combat
Antisemitism around the world.  

     During these somber days of remembrance, we mourn the lives
tragically stolen in the Shoah and on October 7th.  As we hold the
Jewish community close to our hearts, we recommit to remembering so that
what happened can never be erased.  Some injustices are so heinous,
horrific, and grievous that they cannot be buried, no matter how hard
people try.  In silence, wounds deepen, but in remembrance comes
healing, justice, and repair.  Toward those aims, we must all forcefully
act against antisemitism and all forms of hate-fueled violence.  As we
do, we honor the courage, strength, and resilience of the Jewish people,
who have inspired the world for generations by turning pain into
purpose, healing into hope, and darkness into light.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim May 5
through May 12, 2024, as a week of observance of the Days of Remembrance
of the Victims of the Holocaust, and I call upon the people of the
United States to observe this week and pause to remember victims and
survivors of the Holocaust.

    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
third day of May, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and
of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.

                        JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
