---
date: '2024-05-10'
modified_time: 2024-05-10 11:46:35-04:00
published_time: 2024-05-10 11:46:34-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/05/10/a-proclamation-on-mothers-day-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Mother\u2019s Day,\_2024"
---
 
     Today, we show gratitude to moms and mother-figures for loving
their children unconditionally; raising them with care, courage, and
grit; and leading by the power of their example.

     On my desk in the Oval Office, I have a picture of my mother,
Catherine Eugenia “Jean” Finnegan, in Grant Park on the night that
President Barack Obama and I won the 2008 election.  That night, my
mother walked on stage, took my and President Obama’s hands, and said,
“Come on honey, it’s going to be okay.”  That was my mother — fearless,
caring, and ready to lend anyone the bravery that always resided in her
heart.  She taught my siblings and me that courage was the greatest
virtue, instilled in us the belief that everyone is your equal, and
inspired us to lead lives defined by honor and integrity. 

     I have also seen the way that my wife, First Lady Jill Biden, has
put her whole heart into being a wonderful mother and grandmother.  She
brings our family so much joy and is the source of so many of our best
memories.  She has also guided our family forward through the most
difficult times, always finding the strength to hold us together.  Every
day, she shares her heart with the students she teaches full time and so
many others who find inspiration in her leadership, kindness, and
wisdom.

     Across the country, mothers are raising their children, caring for
their families, and making history.  Mothers are leaders in every field
— from Main Street to Wall Street, they are driving innovation and
strengthening our economy.  They are the health care heroes, service
members, and public servants, who sacrifice so much for all of us.  They
are the artists, journalists, engineers, and scientists creating new
possibilities.  They serve at the highest levels of my Administration,
working hard to open the doors of opportunity wider for the next
generation.

     Moms do so much for all of us, and my Administration has their
backs.  During the pandemic, I signed the American Rescue Plan, which
helped keep the doors open for 225,000 child care providers so families
could go to work while their children were cared for.  At the same time,
we expanded the Child Tax Credit, giving moms and families some
breathing room — which helped slash child poverty rates in half during
my first year in office.  My Administration is also making sure that the
good-paying jobs from our once-in-a-generation investments in
infrastructure and clean energy go to women, who have been
underrepresented in these sectors for too long.  I also signed
legislation to ensure employers make reasonable accommodations for
pregnant and nursing mothers, who deserve to have job security and
common-sense workplace protections — such as breaks to drink water, eat,
rest, or use the restroom.  These protections help ensure that pregnant
workers and new moms do not have to choose between their job and their
health.

     My Administration is working to make sure that mothers have access
to the health care they need.  With the leadership of Vice President
Kamala Harris, we released a Blueprint for Addressing the Maternal
Health Crisis, which outlines actions the Federal Government will take
to combat maternal mortality and improve maternal health.  Further, the
American Rescue Plan also gave States the option to provide a full year
of postpartum coverage to women on Medicaid, increasing it from just 60
days previously.  Now, 46 States, Washington, D.C., and the United
States Virgin Islands provide a full year of this critical care.

     This Mother’s Day, may we all show gratitude to our mothers, who
are our rocks, believing in us so that we may believe in ourselves.  May
we pray for those who have lost their mothers and miss their comfort
each day and for the mothers who have lost a child — a piece of their
soul.  May we wholeheartedly support the countless mothers across the
country who work tirelessly to make the American Dream real for their
children and families.

     The Congress, by joint resolution approved May 8, 1914 (38 Stat.
770), has designated the second Sunday in May each year as “Mother’s
Day” and requested the President to call for its appropriate observance.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, do hereby proclaim May 12, 2024, as Mother’s Day.  I
urge all Americans to express their love, respect, and gratitude to
mothers everywhere.  I call upon all citizens to observe this day with
appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
tenth day of May, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and
of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.  
   
   
   
                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
