---
date: '2024-05-31'
published_time: 2024-05-31 17:13:56-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/05/31/a-proclamation-on-adjusting-imports-of-steel-into-the-united-states-6/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Adjusting Imports of Steel Into the United\_States"
---
 
1.  On January 11, 2018, the Secretary of Commerce (Secretary)
transmitted to the President a report on the Secretary’s investigation
into the effect of imports of steel mill articles (steel articles) on
the national security of the United States under section 232 of the
Trade Expansion Act of 1962, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1862).  The Secretary
found and advised the President of the Secretary’s opinion that steel
articles are being imported into the United States in such quantities
and under such circumstances as to threaten to impair the national
security of the United States.

2.  In Proclamation 9705 of March 8, 2018 (Adjusting Imports of Steel
Into the United States), the President concurred in the Secretary’s
finding that steel articles, as defined in clause 1 of Proclamation
9705, as amended by clause 8 of Proclamation 9711 of March 22, 2018
(Adjusting Imports of Steel Into the United States), are being imported
into the United States in such quantities and under such circumstances
as to threaten to impair the national security of the United States, and
decided to adjust the imports of those steel articles by imposing a 25
percent ad valorem tariff on such articles imported from all countries
except Canada and Mexico.  The proclamation further stated that any
country with which the United States has a security relationship is
welcome to discuss with the United States alternative ways to address
the threatened impairment of the national security caused by imports
from that country, and noted that, should the United States and any such
country arrive at a satisfactory alternative means to address the threat
to the national security such that the President determines that imports
from that country no longer threaten to impair the national security,
the President may remove or modify the restriction on steel articles
imports from that country and, if necessary, adjust the tariff as it
applies to other countries, as the national security interests of the
United States require.   

3.  In Proclamation 10403 of May 27, 2022 (Adjusting Imports of Steel
Into the United States), I suspended the tariffs set forth in
Proclamation 9705 for the import of steel articles and derivative steel
articles from Ukraine for 1 year.  In Proclamation 10588 of May 31, 2023
(Adjusting Imports of Steel Into the United States), I extended the
suspension of tariffs for an additional year and expanded the scope of
Proclamation 10403 to include the suspension of tariffs on steel
articles from Ukraine further processed in countries that are members of
the European Union.  In both proclamations, I also instructed the
Secretary to monitor the situation in the domestic steel industry and
developments in Ukraine’s steel industry and inform me of any need to
terminate or extend this suspension. 

4.  The Secretary has informed me that the situation with regard to
Ukraine’s steel industry has not changed since the issuance of
Proclamation 10403 or Proclamation 10588.  Ukraine’s steel industry
continues to be significantly disrupted by the Russian Federation’s
unjustified, unprovoked, unyielding, and unconscionable war against
Ukraine.  The significant disruption in Ukraine’s steel production has
decreased the total amount of steel produced by Ukraine.  The amount of
steel imported into the United States from Ukraine decreased in 2023
compared to 2022, and it is still below the average import volume prior
to 2021.  In 2023 the amount of steel imported into the United States
from Ukraine accounted for less than 1 percent of all steel imports into
the United States.  At the same time, the steel industry has been
historically important to Ukraine, and both the United States and
Ukraine have an interest in maintaining that industry as an economic
lifeline while the country recovers.  The Secretary has also informed me
that the United States and Ukraine continue to be engaged in broad
security discussions.  The current disruption of Ukrainian steel
production has been part of those discussions, and the ongoing
discussion is anticipated to include alternative measures to prevent
imports of steel from Ukraine from threatening the national security of
the United States as Ukraine’s steel production recovers from the
significant disruption caused by the war.

5.  In light of the Secretary’s findings, I conclude that Ukraine’s
present situation remains a special case and that an extension of the
suspension of tariffs in Proclamation 10403, as extended and expanded by
Proclamation 10588, is warranted.  The Secretary shall continue to
monitor the situation in the domestic steel industry and developments in
Ukraine’s steel industry and inform me of any need to terminate or
extend this suspension.

6.  In light of my determination to adjust the tariff proclaimed in
Proclamation 9705 as applied to eligible steel articles and derivative
steel articles that are the product of Ukraine, I have considered
whether it is necessary and appropriate in light of our national
security interests to make any corresponding adjustments to such tariff
as it applies to products of other countries.  I have determined that it
is necessary and appropriate, at this time, to maintain the current
tariff level as it applies to products of other countries.

7.  Section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962, as amended,
authorizes the President to adjust the imports of an article and its
derivatives that are being imported into the United States in such
quantities or under such circumstances as to threaten to impair the
national security.

8.  Section 604 of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended (19 U.S.C. 2483),
authorizes the President to embody in the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of
the United States (HTSUS) the substance of statutes affecting import
treatment, and actions thereunder, including the removal, modification,
continuance, or imposition of any rate of duty or other import
restriction.

Now, Therefore, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, including section 232 of the Trade
Expansion Act of 1962, as amended, section 301 of title 3, United States
Code, and section 604 of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended, do hereby
proclaim as follows:

(1)  To establish duty-free treatment on imports of steel articles when
such are the products of Ukraine as set forth in clauses 2 and 3 of this
proclamation, U.S. Note 16 of subchapter III of chapter 99 of the HTSUS
is amended as provided for in the Annex to this proclamation.

\(2\)  Clause 2 of Proclamation 9705, as amended, is revised to read as
follows: 

“(2)(a)  In order to establish certain modifications to the duty rate on
imports of steel articles, subchapter III of chapter 99 of the HTSUS is
modified as provided in the Annex to this proclamation and any
subsequent proclamations regarding such steel articles.

\(b\)  Except as otherwise provided in this proclamation, or in notices
published pursuant to clause 3 of this proclamation, all steel articles
imports covered by heading 9903.80.01, in subchapter III of chapter 99
of the HTSUS, shall be subject to an additional 25 percent ad valorem
rate of duty with respect to goods entered for consumption, or withdrawn
from warehouse for consumption, as follows:  (i) on or after 12:01 a.m.
eastern daylight time on March 23, 2018, from all countries except
Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, Mexico, South Korea, and the
member countries of the European Union; (ii) on or after 12:01 a.m.
eastern daylight time on June 1, 2018, from all countries except
Argentina, Australia, Brazil, and South Korea; (iii) on or after 12:01
a.m. eastern daylight time on August 13, 2018, from all countries except
Argentina, Australia, Brazil, South Korea, and Turkey; (iv) on or after
12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on May 20, 2019, from all countries
except Argentina, Australia, Brazil, South Korea, and Turkey; (v) on or
after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on May 21, 2019, from all
countries except Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, Mexico, and South
Korea; (vi) on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern standard time on January 1,
2022, from all countries except Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada,
Mexico, and South Korea, and except the member countries of the European
Union through 11:59 p.m. eastern standard time on December 31, 2023, for
steel articles covered by headings 9903.80.65 through 9903.81.19,
inclusive; (vii) on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on April
1, 2022, from all countries except Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada,
Mexico, and South Korea, and except the member countries of the European
Union through 11:59 p.m. eastern standard time on December 31, 2023, for
steel articles covered by headings 9903.80.65 through 9903.81.19,
inclusive, and from Japan, for steel articles covered by headings
9903.81.25 through 9903.81.80, inclusive; (viii) on or after 12:01 a.m.
eastern daylight time on June 1, 2022, from all countries except
Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, Mexico, South Korea, and Ukraine
through 11:59 p.m. eastern daylight time on June 1, 2023, and except the
member countries of the European Union through 11:59 p.m. eastern
standard time on December 31, 2023, for steel articles covered by
headings 9903.80.65 through 9903.81.19, inclusive, and from Japan and
the United Kingdom (UK), for steel articles covered by subheadings
9903.81.25 through 9903.81.78 and heading 9903.81.80, and from the
member countries of the European Union, for steel articles covered by
heading 9903.81.81; (ix) on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on
June 1, 2023, from all countries except Argentina, Australia, Brazil,
Canada, Mexico, South Korea, and Ukraine through 11:59 p.m. eastern
daylight time on June 1, 2024, and except the member countries of the
European Union through 11:59 p.m. eastern standard time on December 31,
2023, for steel articles covered by headings 9903.80.65 through
9903.81.19, inclusive, and from Japan and the UK, for steel articles
covered by subheadings 9903.81.25 through 9903.81.78 and heading
9903.81.80, and from the member countries of the European Union, for
steel articles covered by heading 9903.81.81, and from the member
countries of the European Union where the steel used in the manufacture
of the steel article is melted and poured in Ukraine through 11:59 p.m.
eastern daylight time on June 1, 2024, and (x) on or after 12:01 a.m.
eastern standard time on January 1, 2024, from all countries except
Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, Mexico, and South Korea, and
except for Ukraine through 11:59 p.m. eastern daylight time on June 1,
2025, and except the member countries of the European Union through
11:59 p.m. eastern standard time on December 31, 2025, for steel
articles covered by headings 9903.80.65 through 9903.81.19, inclusive,
and from Japan and the UK, for steel articles covered by subheadings
9903.81.25 through 9903.81.78 and heading 9903.81.80, and from the
member countries of the European Union, for steel articles covered by
heading 9903.81.81, and from the member countries of the European Union
where the steel used in the manufacture of the steel article is melted
and poured in Ukraine through 11:59 p.m. eastern daylight time on June
1, 2025.  Further, except as otherwise provided in notices published
pursuant to clause 3 of this proclamation, all steel articles imports
from Turkey covered by heading 9903.80.02, in subchapter III of chapter
99 of the HTSUS, shall be subject to a 50 percent ad valorem rate of
duty with respect to goods entered for consumption, or withdrawn from
warehouse for consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time
on August 13, 2018, and prior to 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on May
21, 2019. All steel articles imports covered by heading 9903.80.61, in
subchapter III of chapter 99 of the HTSUS, shall be subject to the
additional 25 percent ad valorem rate of duty established herein with
respect to goods entered for consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse
for consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern time on the date
specified in a determination by the Secretary granting relief.  These
rates of duty, which are in addition to any other duties, fees,
exactions, and charges applicable to such imported steel articles, shall
apply to imports of steel articles from each country as specified in the
preceding three sentences.”

(3)  The first two sentences of clause 1 of Proclamation 9980 of January
24, 2020 (Adjusting Imports of Derivative Aluminum Articles and
Derivative Steel Articles Into the United States), are revised to read
as follows:

“In order to establish increases in the duty rate on imports of certain
derivative articles, subchapter III of chapter 99 of the HTSUS is
modified as provided in Annex I and Annex II to this proclamation. 
Except as otherwise provided in this proclamation, all imports of
derivative aluminum articles specified in Annex I to this proclamation
shall be subject to an additional 10 percent ad valorem rate of duty,
and all imports of derivative steel articles specified in Annex II to
this proclamation shall be subject to an additional 25 percent ad
valorem rate of duty, with respect to goods entered for consumption, or
withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, as follows:  (i) on or after
12:01 a.m. eastern standard time on February 8, 2020, these rates of
duty, which are in addition to any other duties, fees, exactions, and
charges applicable to such imported derivative aluminum articles or
steel articles, shall apply to imports of derivative aluminum articles
described in Annex I to this proclamation from all countries except
Argentina, the Commonwealth of Australia (Australia), Canada, and the
United Mexican States (Mexico), and to imports of derivative steel
articles described in Annex II to this proclamation from all countries
except Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, Mexico, and South Korea;
(ii) on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern standard time on January 1, 2022,
these rates of duty, which are in addition to any other duties, fees,
exactions, and charges applicable to such imported derivative aluminum
articles or steel articles, shall apply to imports of derivative
aluminum articles described in Annex I to this proclamation from all
countries except Argentina, Australia, Canada, the member countries of
the European Union, and Mexico, and to imports of derivative steel
articles described in Annex II to this proclamation from all countries
except Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, the member countries of the
European Union, Mexico, and South Korea; (iii) on or after 12:01 a.m.
eastern daylight time on April 1, 2022, these rates of duty, which are
in addition to any other duties, fees, exactions, and charges applicable
to such imported derivative aluminum articles or steel articles, shall
apply to imports of derivative aluminum articles described in Annex I to
this proclamation from all countries except Argentina, Australia,
Canada, the member countries of the European Union, and Mexico, and to
imports of derivative steel articles described in Annex II to this
proclamation from all countries except Argentina, Australia, Brazil,
Canada, the member countries of the European Union, Japan, Mexico, and
South Korea; (iv) on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on June
1, 2022, these rates of duty, which are in addition to any other duties,
fees, exactions, and charges applicable to such imported derivative
aluminum articles or steel articles, shall apply to imports of
derivative aluminum articles described in Annex I to this proclamation
from all countries except Argentina, Australia, Canada, the member
countries of the European Union, Mexico, and the UK, and to imports of
derivative steel articles described in Annex II to this proclamation
from all countries except Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, the
member countries of the European Union, Japan, Mexico, South Korea, and
the UK, and except from Ukraine through 11:59 p.m. eastern daylight time
on June 1, 2023; (v) on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern standard time on
March 10, 2023, these rates of duty, which are in addition to any other
duties, fees, exactions, and charges applicable to such imported
derivative aluminum articles or steel articles, shall apply to imports
of derivative aluminum articles described in  Annex I to this
proclamation from all countries except Argentina, Australia, Canada, the
member countries of the European Union, Mexico, the UK, and Russia, and
to imports of derivative steel articles described in Annex II to this
proclamation from all countries except Argentina, Australia, Brazil,
Canada, the member countries of the European Union, Japan, Mexico, South
Korea, and the UK, and except from Ukraine through 11:59 p.m. eastern
daylight time on June 1, 2023; and (vi) on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern
daylight time on June 1, 2023, these rates of duty, which are in
addition to any other duties, fees, exactions, and charges applicable to
such imported derivative aluminum articles or steel articles, shall
apply to imports of derivative aluminum articles described in Annex I to
this proclamation from all countries except Argentina, Australia,
Canada, the member countries of the European Union, Mexico, the UK, and
Russia, and to imports of derivative steel articles described in Annex
II to this proclamation from all countries except Argentina, Australia,
Brazil, Canada, the member countries of the European Union, Japan,
Mexico, South Korea, and the UK, and except from Ukraine through 11:59
p.m. eastern daylight time on June 1, 2025.”  

\(4\)  Any imports of steel articles from Ukraine that were admitted
into a United States foreign trade zone under “privileged foreign
status” as defined in 19 CFR 146.41, prior to 12:01 a.m. eastern
daylight time on June 1, 2022, shall be subject upon entry for
consumption made on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on June 1,
2022, to the 25 percent rate of duty imposed by Proclamation 9705, as
amended; and any imports of steel articles from the member countries of
the European Union where the steel used in the manufacture of the steel
article is melted and poured in Ukraine that were admitted into a United
States foreign trade zone under “privileged foreign status” as defined
in 19 CFR 146.41, prior to 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on June 1,
2023, shall be subject upon entry for consumption made on or after 12:01
a.m. eastern daylight time on June 1, 2023, to the 25 percent rate of
duty imposed by Proclamation 9705, as amended.

(5)  Steel articles from a member country of the European Union where
the steel used in the manufacture of the steel article is melted and
poured in Ukraine are not eligible for, and shall not count against, the
in-quota volume of the tariff-rate quota established in clause 1 of
Proclamation 10328 of December 27, 2021 (Adjusting Imports of Steel Into
the United States), and extended in Proclamation 10691 of December 28,
2023 (Adjusting Imports of Steel Into the United States). 

(6)  Steel articles from Ukraine eligible for treatment under clauses 2
and 3 of this proclamation must be accompanied by a certificate of
origin in order to be eligible for duty-free treatment.  The Secretary,
in consultation with the Secretary of Homeland Security and the United
States Trade Representative, is authorized to take such actions as are
necessary to ensure compliance with this requirement.  Failure to comply
could result in applicable remedies such as the collection of the tariff
set forth in clause 2 of Proclamation 9705 and clause 1 of Proclamation
9980, or penalties under United States law.

(7)  Any provision of previous proclamations and Executive Orders that
is inconsistent with the actions taken in this proclamation is
superseded to the extent of such inconsistency.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first
day of May, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.

                              JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
