---
date: '2024-05-16'
modified_time: 2024-05-16 10:25:32-04:00
published_time: 2024-05-16 10:25:31-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/05/16/a-proclamation-on-70th-anniversary-brown-v-board-of-education/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on 70th Anniversary Brown V. Board of\_Education"
---
 
        Seventy years ago, the Supreme Court delivered a unanimous
decision in *Brown v. Board of Education* that outlawed racial
segregation in our Nation’s public schools, finding that “separate but
equal” is “inherently unequal.”  That landmark decision helped us move
closer to realizing the idea that defines who we are as a Nation:  We
are all created equal and deserve to be treated equally throughout our
lives.  While our society has never fully lived up to that idea, we have
never fully walked away from it either — and on this milestone
anniversary, we promise we will not walk away from it now.  

     As we commemorate 70 years since *Brown v. Board of Education*
changed our Nation, we also commemorate the important foundation that
was laid in Delaware.  A mother in Hockessin, joined by the parents of
eight other students in Claymont, simply wanted their children to attend
school and be treated with dignity and respect.  Through *Bulah v.
Gebhart* and *Belton v. Gebhart*, courageous lawyers and judges in
Delaware — like Louis Redding and Chancellor Collins Seitz — helped lay
the legal groundwork for the *Brown v. Board of Education* decision to
strike down the insidious doctrine of separate but equal.

*     Brown v. Board of Education* may have opened up schools to all our
Nation’s students, but the fight to get these students into classrooms
persisted.  There were still people in power who wanted to pull America
back to the past, doing everything they could to keep school doors shut
to Black students.  Our Nation will never forget the stories of the
Little Rock Nine, the group of students who were refused entry to their
local high school by the National Guard blocking the doors.  We will
never forget the story of Ruby Bridges, who at only six-years-old had to
be escorted by United States Marshals to her elementary school because
an angry mob tried to prevent her from entering.  Across the country,
Black students who entered newly desegregated schools endured
discrimination, harassment, and racism from their peers, educators, and
school administrators.  Yet, these students in the face of danger
returned to class again and again, backed by community and civil rights
leaders who were determined to take a stand for racial justice and
equity that would benefit future generations of Americans.  They showed
us that bravery exists in the youngest of hearts, possessing the guts
and courage to stand up for the best of our country.  All the while,
they kept faith in our Nation and in our North Star ‑- the sacred ideals
at the heart of who we are. 

     Today, we know that the lessons learned from *Brown v. Board of
Education* served as a catalyst for the most fundamental civil rights
legislation of our time like the 1964 Civil Rights Act and 1965 Voting
Rights Act.  But while the decision in *Brown v. Board of Education* has
allowed so many schools to develop diverse, inclusive learning
communities that value empathy, kindness, and tolerance, the full
potential of *Brown v. Board of Education* remains unfulfilled.  There
is still so much work to do to ensure that every student has equal
access to a quality education and that our school systems fully benefit
from the diversity and talent of our students — because diversity has
always been one of our Nation’s greatest strengths. 

     Since I came into office, we have prioritized making our schools
more equitable.  My Administration secured nearly $2 billion in
additional Title I funding under the Elementary and Secondary Education
Act to help provide a high-quality education to our most underserved
students.  Additionally, my American Rescue Plan delivered historic
funding to our Nation’s schools, supporting critical programs that help
level the playing field like after-school and summer programs.  Further,
after the Supreme Court effectively ended affirmative action in college
admissions, I directed the Department of Education to analyze what
practices help build more inclusive and diverse student bodies.  At the
same time, we are making sure to tell the full truth of our Nation’s
history, and I am proud to have signed a bill to expand the historic
sites of *Brown v. Board of Education* National Historical Park,
preserving this essential history.

     On this milestone anniversary, may we honor the *Brown v. Board of
Education* decision and all the people who have fought so hard to open
classroom doors to every student.  It is a reminder that the promise of
America is big enough for everyone to succeed and that every generation
of Americans has benefited by opening the doors of opportunity just a
little bit wider to include those who have been left behind.  Today, may
we recognize the inherent value in having diverse, thriving schools and
continue working together to build a future worthy of the dreams and
aspirations of our Nation’s students.  

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim May
17, 2024, as the 70th anniversary of *Brown v. Board of Education*.  I
call upon Americans to honor all the civil rights leaders, activists,
educators, and students who have fought for decades to make our schools
more equitable and work together to realize the promise of America for
every American.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
sixteenth day of May, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four,
and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred
and forty-eighth.  
  
  
                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
