---
date: '2024-05-03'
published_time: 2024-05-03 13:12:41-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/05/03/a-proclamation-on-national-hurricane-preparedness-week-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Hurricane Preparedness Week,\_2024"
---
 
     Too many families know the pain of having their lives and
livelihoods devastated by powerful hurricanes, tropical storms, and
typhoons.  During National Hurricane Preparedness Week, we shed light on
the dangerous impacts of hurricanes and share best practices on how to
prepare and stay safe.  We also show our gratitude to the first
responders, volunteers, and all those who help to prepare communities in
advance and rescue, recover, and rebuild in the wake of their darkest
moments.

     In Louisiana, Florida, New York, and Puerto Rico, I have walked the
empty streets that hurricanes left behind.  Community members have told
me about the homes, churches, and small businesses that stood there only
a few days before — how everything they had worked for had been wiped
out.  Hurricanes have caused billions of dollars in damage.  With the
climate crisis, extreme weather events like hurricanes may grow more
frequent and intense.  

     My Administration has taken action to make our Nation more
resilient to and prepared for extreme weather.  Our Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law — the most significant investment in infrastructure
in decades — is strengthening, restoring, and building roads, bridges,
and ports across our country.  I also signed the Inflation Reduction Act
— the most significant climate investment in the history of the world.
 With these pieces of legislation, we are investing tens of billions of
dollars in building a future that keeps Americans safe from the threat
of extreme weather.  We are modernizing building codes to be more
protective and upgrading electric grids so the power does not go out
when storms land.  We are helping States prepare safe evacuation routes
and launch new construction projects that keep vulnerable coastal
communities safe against extreme weather events like hurricanes and
storm surges.  We are revitalizing critical ecosystems like reefs,
beaches, and wetlands that naturally keep us safer during storms by
buffering shorelines against the waves.

     This week, as we approach hurricane season, every American can take
steps to plan, prepare, and better protect their families and homes.
 Review emergency plans and insurance policies and make sure they are up
to date.  Store important documents in a secure and accessible place,
learn local evacuation routes, and prepare an emergency kit.  If a storm
approaches, keep a close eye on storm surge and hurricane warnings, and
follow guidance from local authorities.  Spreading awareness about
preparation for hurricanes can make a huge difference in keeping
friends, families, and neighbors safe.  For more information, visit
ready.gov for tips on how to protect yourself from all hazards.

     I have often said that America is the only country that has emerged
from every crisis stronger than when we entered it.  That is in no small
part due to the courage and compassion of volunteers, first responders,
and everyday people who show up in the wake of disaster.  They have put
roofs over people’s heads, rebuilt what was lost, and saved lives.  This
National Hurricane Preparedness Week, we honor their service, and we
recommit to doing our part in keeping America’s communities safe and
secure from these disasters.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim May 5
through May 11, 2024, as National Hurricane Preparedness Week.  I urge
all Americans to help build our climate-resilient Nation so that
individuals, organizations, and community leaders are empowered to take
action to make their communities more secure in the face of extreme
weather and climate change.  I call on our Federal, State, Tribal,
territorial, and local government agencies to share information that
will protect lives and property.

    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this third day of
May, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.

                        JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

  
 
