---
date: '2024-05-21'
published_time: 2024-05-21 16:24:14-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/05/21/a-proclamation-on-national-maritime-day-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Maritime Day,\_2024"
---
 
     Our Nation’s merchant mariners embody the highest aspirations of
our democracy, always answering our country’s call with commitment and
courage.  Today, we honor their service and sacrifice.  Together, we
recommit to meeting our sacred obligation to care for them and their
families.

     Unbreaking and unbending in their devotion to duty, our merchant
mariners have stood for our Nation’s freedom and liberty throughout
history — from delivering critical goods and troops to the battlefields
of World War II to responding to devastating natural disasters around
the world and shipping the goods and military cargo that keep our Nation
safe and prosperous.  Today, our merchant mariners are continuing this
legacy of service, delivering humanitarian aid to people in need and
transporting military equipment around the world.  At the same time,
merchant mariners are engines of our economy.  They facilitate
international trade and strengthen our supply chains by transporting
billions of dollars of goods across oceans, seas, and waterways to the
hands of American businesses and consumers.

     Our merchant mariners have always met the moment — and my
Administration will always have their backs.  That is why we are
ensuring that ships traveling between United States ports are
American-built, American-owned, and American-crewed by enforcing the
Jones Act.  This will not only support American shipbuilding but will
also support good union jobs. Meanwhile, we have made historic
investments in our Nation’s infrastructure, including rebuilding our
ports so that they are safer, cleaner, and easier and more affordable to
move through.

     We also recognize that our merchant mariners are strongest when
they reflect the full diversity of our Nation.  My Budget proposes
$191 million for the United States Merchant Marine Academy to educate
and train the next generation of seagoing officers and maritime
leaders.  Additionally, my Administration established Every Mariner
Builds A Respectful Culture Standards to prevent sexual assault and
harassment and to support survivors. 

     Today, as we honor all that merchant mariners have done for our
Nation, we also recognize the mariners who have made the ultimate
sacrifice for our Nation.  We owe these fallen heroes a debt of
gratitude we can never fully repay.  But our Nation will never forget
their legacy and that of every mariner who has dared all, risked all,
and given all for our Nation.

     The Congress, by a joint resolution approved May 20, 1933, has
designated May 22 of each year as “National Maritime Day” to commemorate
the first transoceanic voyage by a steamship in 1819 by the S.S.
Savannah.  By this resolution, the Congress has authorized and requested
the President to issue annually a proclamation calling for its
appropriate observance.  I also request that all ships sailing under the
American flag dress ship on that day.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, do hereby proclaim May 22, 2024, as National Maritime
Day.  I call upon all Americans to observe this day and to celebrate the
United States Merchant Marine and maritime industry with appropriate
programs, ceremonies, and activities.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-first
day of May, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.  
   
                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
