---
date: '2024-05-17'
modified_time: 2024-05-20 15:45:43-04:00
published_time: 2024-05-17 11:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/05/17/national-security-memorandum-on-united-states-policy-on-the-antarctic-region/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "National Security Memorandum on United\_States Policy on the Antarctic\_Region"
---
 
NATIONAL SECURITY MEMORANDUM/NSM-23

MEMORANDUM FOR THE VICE PRESIDENT

              THE SECRETARY OF STATE

              THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE

              THE ATTORNEY GENERAL

              THE SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR

              THE SECRETARY OF COMMERCE

              THE SECRETARY OF TRANSPORTATION

              THE SECRETARY OF ENERGY

              THE SECRETARY OF HOMELAND SECURITY

              THE ADMINISTRATOR OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL

                 PROTECTION AGENCY

              THE DIRECTOR OF THE OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND

                 BUDGET

              THE UNITED STATES TRADE REPRESENTATIVE

              THE DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE

              THE DIRECTOR OF THE CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE

                 AGENCY

              THE ASSISTANT TO THE PRESIDENT FOR NATIONAL

                 SECURITY AFFAIRS

              THE DIRECTOR OF THE OFFICE OF SCIENCE

                 AND TECHNOLOGY POLICY

              THE CHAIRMAN OF THE JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF

              THE DIRECTOR OF THE NATIONAL SCIENCE

                 FOUNDATION

              THE ADMINISTRATOR OF THE NATIONAL AERONAUTICS

                 AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION

              THE CHAIR OF THE MARINE MAMMAL COMMISSION

SUBJECT:       United States Policy on the Antarctic Region

This memorandum establishes the policy of the United States with respect
to the Antarctic Region.  It rescinds and replaces Presidential Decision
Directive/NSC-26 of June 9, 1994 (United States Policy on the Arctic and
Antarctic Regions).  It identifies the key objectives and mechanisms by
which the United States will lead and participate in activities within
or pertaining to the Antarctic Region.

     Section 1.  Policy.  (a)  Due to its significant national interests
in and historic ties to the Antarctic Region, and as 1 of 12 original
signatories of the Antarctic Treaty of 1959 (Antarctic Treaty), the
United States reaffirms the importance of protecting the unique and
fragile Antarctic Region and its resources and ecosystems in the face of
direct and indirect pressures from human activities.  The Antarctic
Region plays a vital role in the global climate system, supports unique
organisms and ecosystems, and provides an unparalleled platform for
multi-scale environmental and cosmological research.  The United States
will continue to lead cooperative international efforts through the
Antarctic Treaty System (ATS) to maintain the Antarctic Region for
peaceful purposes, protect its relatively pristine environment and
ecosystems, and conduct scientific research.

     (b)  United States policy toward the Antarctic Region has
four fundamental objectives:  (1) to protect the relatively unspoiled
environment of the Antarctic Region and its associated ecosystems;
(2) to preserve and pursue unique opportunities for scientific research
and understand the Antarctic Region’s  relationship to global
environmental changes; (3) to maintain the Antarctic Region as an area
of international cooperation reserved exclusively for peaceful purposes;
and (4) to assure the protection and conservation of the living
resources in and ecosystems of the Antarctic Region.

     Sec. 2.  United States Engagement with the Antarctic Treaty System.
 (a)  The United States continues to strongly support the ATS as the
legal framework that establishes the Antarctic Region as a zone for
peace, international cooperation, the pursuit of science, and
environmental protection.  The United States has held and will continue
to take a leadership role in negotiating and implementing related
agreements concerning the Antarctic Region.

     (b)  The United States reiterates its steadfast position of not
recognizing sovereignty claims and of reserving all its rights
throughout the whole of the Antarctic Region, consistent with the
Antarctic Treaty.

     (c)  The United States will continue to maintain an active and
influential presence in the ATS — led by the Department of State with
participation by other executive departments and agencies (agencies) —
and in Antarctica through the active engagement of the National Science
Foundation (NSF).  The NSF budgets for and manages the United States
Antarctic Program on behalf of the Federal Government pursuant to
Presidential Memorandum 6646 of February 5, 1982 (United States
Antarctic Policy and Programs).  Through the United States Antarctic
Program, the United States maintains three year-round scientific
research stations in Antarctica and, together with other agencies,
undertakes and supports scientific research in the Antarctic Region. 
The United States will work collaboratively to conduct world-class
research that also assists policymakers to advance the goals of the
policy outlined in this memorandum in a manner consistent with the ATS.

     (d)  To maintain the effectiveness and durability of the ATS, the
United States will continuously strengthen its promotion of
transparency, compliance, cooperation, the exchange of best practices,
and adherence to relevant norms by all ATS participants.  Consistent
with the ATS, the United States will continue to use all tools available
— including expanding the Nation’s polar icebreaker fleet — to support
the goals of the policy outlined in this memorandum, particularly to
achieve United States Antarctic Program science and operations goals and
Department of State-led inspections.  Furthermore, the United States
will advance management of human activities in the Antarctic Region
proactively and consistently with its objectives of protection and
conservation.  This management approach reflects the United States’
steadfast commitment to all aspects of the ATS, to include but not
limited to arms control, the protection of vulnerable flora and fauna,
and the general prohibition of activity relating to mineral resources.

     (e)  Considering ongoing climate change and other global changes
and their associated impacts — to include ocean warming, sea level rise,
ocean acidification, stratospheric ozone depletion, pollution, threats
to biodiversity, and the risk of reaching tipping points such as the
collapse of the West Antarctic ice sheet — the United States recognizes
the benefits of research opportunities and scientific pursuits in the
Antarctic Region to benefit all ATS participants.  The United States
collaboratively leverages Federal, international, academic, and
public-private partnerships to advance and share data, information, and
knowledge about the Antarctic Region and its role in Earth systems.  For
example, the United States Global Change Research Program — which
facilitates collaboration and cooperation across its Federal Government
member agencies — aims to advance global change science; engage the
Nation; collaborate internationally; and inform decisions about risks,
mitigation, and adaptation to global changes.

     (f)  As a party to the Convention on the Conservation of Antarctic
Marine Living Resources (CAMLR Convention), the United States will
continue to promote conservation and utilization of the best scientific
information available for decision-making about Antarctic marine living
resources and ecosystems.  The National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration, the NSF, and other relevant research-oriented agencies
will maintain strong scientific programs that advance knowledge and
inform decision‑making under the CAMLR Convention, and that enable the
United States to persuasively advocate for effective protection and
conservation of Antarctic ecosystems and marine living resources.  For
any such ecosystems and resources subject to exploitation, the United
States will promote the application of a precautionary, ecosystem-based
approach rooted in the best available science to sustainably manage
target, associated, and dependent species.  Furthermore, the
United States recognizes the value and importance of establishing,
enforcing, monitoring, and adaptively managing fully and highly
protected large-scale marine protected areas as tools to conserve
Antarctic marine living resources, their ecosystems, and the benefits
they provide.

     Sec. 3.  Definitions and Area of Application.  For purposes of this
memorandum:

     (a)  The ATS includes four international agreements:  the Antarctic
Treaty; the Convention for the Conservation of Antarctic Seals; the
CAMLR Convention; and the Protocol on Environmental Protection to the
Antarctic Treaty, along with Measures, Decisions, and Resolutions in
furtherance of the principles and objectives of the Antarctic Treaty and
CAMLR Convention.

     (b)  The term “Antarctic Region” applies to the fullest, cumulative
extent of the ATS.  The area of application of the Antarctic Treaty is
the area south of 60 degrees South Latitude, including all ice shelves. 
The CAMLR Convention applies to the Antarctic Treaty area and to the
area between 60 degrees South Latitude and the Antarctic Convergence (as
defined in Article I of the CAMLR Convention) in the Southern Ocean.

     (c)  The term “ATS participants” comprises states, multinational
organizations, and non-state actors involved in ATS affairs and
Antarctic activities, to include the Antarctic Treaty Contracting
Parties, Observers, and Invited Experts participating in Antarctic
Treaty Consultative Meetings.  The term also applies to the CAMLR
Convention Contracting Parties, Acceding States, and Cooperating
Non-Contracting Parties.

     Sec. 4.  General Provisions.  (a)  This memorandum rescinds and
replaces Presidential Decision Directive/NSC-26.

     (b)  Nothing in this memorandum shall be construed to impair or
otherwise affect:

(i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency,
or the head thereof; or

(ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

     (c)  This memorandum shall be implemented consistent with the
Constitution and the laws of the United States; the obligations of the
United States under the treaties and other international agreements to
which the United States is a party; and customary international law as
recognized by the United States, including with respect to the law of
the sea, and shall be subject to the availability of appropriations.

     (d)  This memorandum is not intended to, and does not, create any
right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in
equity by any party against the United States, its departments,
agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other
person.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
