---
date: '2024-05-03'
published_time: 2024-05-03 12:55:04-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/05/03/a-proclamation-on-missing-or-murdered-indigenous-persons-awareness-day-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Missing or Murdered Indigenous Persons Awareness Day,\_\
  2024"
---
 
     For decades, Native communities across this continent have been
devastated by an epidemic of disappearances and killings, too often
without resolution, justice, or accountability.  On Missing or Murdered
Indigenous Persons Awareness Day, we honor the individuals missing and
the lives lost, and we recommit to working with Tribal Nations to end
the violence and inequities that drive this crisis, delivering safety
and healing.

Across Indian Country, justice for the missing has been elusive for too
long.  Too many Native families know the pain of a loved one being
declared missing or murdered, and women, girls, and LGBTQI+ and
Two-Spirit individuals are bearing the brunt of this violence.  In the
depths of their grief, the work of investigating these disappearances,
demanding justice, and fighting for the hopeful return of their loved
ones has fallen on the shoulders of families.  Legions of brave
activists have sought to change that.  We need to provide greater
resources and ensure the accountability that every community deserves.

During my first year in office, I signed an Executive Order directing
Federal agencies to join Tribal Nations in responding to this crisis
with new urgency.  Since then, the Department of Justice and the
Department of the Interior have worked together to accelerate
investigations and bring families closure in ways that respect their
cultures and the trauma they have endured.  The Department of the
Interior created a unit dedicated to this work, and the Federal Bureau
of Investigation has hired personnel to focus on these cases and ensure
that victims’ families are heard throughout this process.  Further, as a
result of an effort spearheaded by Secretary of the Interior Deb Haaland
when she was in the Congress, Federal agencies are responding to and
implementing the recommendations of the Not Invisible Act Commission — a
commission composed of loved ones of missing or murdered individuals,
law enforcement, Tribal leaders, Federal partners, service providers,
and survivors of gender-based violence — to combat this epidemic.  We
will continue working with the governments of Canada and Mexico through
the Trilateral Working Group on Violence Against Indigenous Women and
Girls to make sure our efforts are coordinated and incorporate Tribal
input. 

At the same time, we are supporting efforts within the community to
crack down on gender-based violence in Indian Country.  We reauthorized
the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) in 2022, which included historic
provisions to strengthen Tribal sovereignty and safety, expanding Tribal
jurisdiction to include prosecution of non-Native perpetrators of
stalking, sexual assault, sex trafficking, and child abuse for crimes
committed on Tribal lands.  Further, my Administration invested in
training for law enforcement and Federal court officers to ensure they
respond to cases of gender-based violence through a trauma-informed and
culturally responsive approach.  My new Budget designates $800 million
for the Department of Justice to support VAWA programs, including a new
grant program that will work to address the missing or murdered
Indigenous persons crisis.

The United States has made a solemn promise to fulfill its trust and
treaty obligations to Tribal Nations and to help rebuild Tribal
economies and institutions.  Ending this devastating epidemic is an
important piece of that work.  Today, we mourn with the families who
have lost a piece of their soul to this crisis, and we honor the
Indigenous activists and advocates who have summoned the courage to
shine light on the tragedy.  Their actions have already saved countless
lives.  Together, we will resolve these unanswered questions and build a
future for everyone based on safety, security, and self-determination.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim May 5, 2024, as
Missing or Murdered Indigenous Persons Awareness Day.  I call on all
Americans and ask all levels of government to support Tribal governments
and Tribal communities’ efforts to increase awareness and address the
issues of missing or murdered Indigenous persons through appropriate
programs and activities.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this third day of
May, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
