---
date: '2024-05-17'
published_time: 2024-05-17 11:36:01-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/05/17/a-proclamation-on-national-hepatitis-testing-day-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Hepatitis Testing Day,\_2024"
---
 
        Millions of Americans have viral hepatitis, an infection of the
liver that can be cured or managed with the right treatment, but every
year, it takes the lives of thousands of Americans who for too long did
not realize that they were sick.  Testing saves lives.  On National
Hepatitis Testing Day, we encourage folks everywhere to help spread the
word and get tested, and we commit to continuing our work to get every
American the high-quality health care they need to live long, healthy
lives. 

Hepatitis C, the most common strain of the disease, is spread through
contact with infected blood.  It can take years to cause noticeable
symptoms, leaving many folks unaware that anything is wrong.  As a
result, they can unintentionally spread the virus; pregnant women with
hepatitis C can, for example, pass it on to their newborns.  Left
untreated, it can lead to cirrhosis, liver failure, liver cancer, and
even death.  Fortunately for patients and their families, there is a
cure that is 95 percent effective, once folks know to seek it.  But it
can be very expensive for people without health insurance, putting it
out of reach for too many Americans in need, and that is wrong.

We have the tools to end this public health threat, saving thousands of
lives.  I have proposed a comprehensive plan that would speed up
testing, increase access to life-saving medication, train more medical
providers, and boost research into a vaccine.  For example, my plan
would simplify testing by accelerating the availability of point-of-care
diagnostics, which means patients could be diagnosed in a single visit
rather than having to follow up with multiple tests.  It would launch an
innovative subscription model for hepatitis C drugs, which would expand
access to life-saving treatments for individuals who are uninsured,
enrolled in Medicaid, eligible to receive healthcare from the Indian
Health Service, or incarcerated.  It would invest in health centers and
programs that deliver hepatitis care and in training more health care
professionals, including programs that serve Black and Native
communities — who are disproportionately affected by hepatitis C.  It
also supports efforts to raise awareness of the critical benefits of
testing and treatment, reaching out directly to communities with high
infection rates, including people who are incarcerated or in drug
treatment programs.  My Budget proposes investments that would help
prevent serious illness and avoid serious complications from hepatitis C
so that we can save lives and finally end hepatitis C in America once
and for all. 

At the same time, we are working to prevent hepatitis B, the second most
common strain of viral hepatitis, which ultimately contributes to as
many as 25 percent of people dying prematurely from liver-related
diseases.  Over 600,000 Americans, many from Asian American, Native
Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander communities, are living with a chronic
hepatitis B infection.  The good news is that there is already a
hepatitis B vaccine that can save lives.  The Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention urges all adults under 60 to be screened and
vaccinated and for 30 years has recommended that children be vaccinated
as well. 

America has always been a place where we can get big things done
together.  That includes beating hepatitis once and for all.  This work
begins with every American taking steps to protect their own health by
asking your health care provider about getting tested for hepatitis B
and C and getting vaccinated for hepatitis B.  My Administration will
keep pushing to advance prevention, testing, treatment, and cures. 
Together, we can save lives.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim May 19, 2024, as
National Hepatitis Testing Day.  I encourage all Americans to join in
activities that will increase awareness about viral hepatitis and what
we can do to prevent and treat it.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this seventeenth
day of May, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
