---
date: '2024-05-31'
published_time: 2024-05-31 17:20:27-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/05/31/a-proclamation-on-lesbian-gay-bisexual-transgender-queer-and-intersex-pride-month-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer, and Intersex\
  \ Pride Month,\_2024"
---
 
During Pride Month, we celebrate the extraordinary courage and
contributions of the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer, and
Intersex (LGBTQI+) community.  We reflect on the progress we have made
so far in pursuit of equality, justice, and inclusion.  We recommit
ourselves to do more to support LGBTQI+ rights at home and around the
world. 

For generations, LGBTQI+ Americans have summoned the courage to live
authentically and proudly — even when it meant putting their lives and
livelihoods at risk.  In 1969 at the Stonewall Inn in New York, brave
LGBTQI+ individuals protested the violence and marginalization they
faced, boosting a civil rights movement for the liberation of LGBTQI+
people that has transformed our Nation.  Since then, courageous LGBTQI+
Americans continue to inspire and bring hope to all people seeking a
life true to who they are.  LGBTQI+ people also continue to enrich every
aspect of American life as educators, entertainers, entrepreneurs,
athletes, actors, artists, scientists, scholars, diplomats, doctors,
service members, veterans, and so much more.

Advancing equality for the LGBTQI+ community is a top priority for my
Administration.  I signed the historic Respect for Marriage Act, which
protects the marriage of same-sex and interracial couples.  As Commander
in Chief, I was proud to have ended the ban on transgender Americans
serving in the United States military.  I signed historic Executive
Orders strengthening civil rights protections for housing, employment,
health care, education, and the justice system.  We are also combating
the dangerous and cruel practice of so-called “conversion therapy” and
implementing a national strategy to end the HIV epidemic in this
country.  We ended the disgraceful practice of banning gay and bisexual
men from donating blood.  We are doing this work here at home and around
the globe, where LGBTQI+ community members are fighting for recognition
of their fundamental human rights and seeking to live full lives, free
from hate-fueled violence and discrimination.

But for all the progress, we know real challenges persist.  Last year,
as we celebrated Pride Month on the South Lawn of the White House, I had
the honor of meeting survivors of the Club Q and Pulse shootings, which
tragically took the lives of LGBTQI+ Americans.  Although my
Administration passed the most significant gun law in nearly 30 years,
the Congress must do its part and ban assault weapons.  At the same
time, families across the country face excruciating decisions to
relocate to a different State to protect their children from dangerous
and hateful anti-LGBTQI+ laws, which target transgender children,
threaten families, and criminalize doctors and nurses.  These bills and
laws attack our most basic values and freedoms as Americans:  the right
to be yourself, the right to make your own medical decisions, and the
right to raise your own children.  Some things should never be put at
risk:  your life, your safety, and your dignity.

To the entire LGBTQI+ community — and especially transgender children —
please know that your President and my entire Administration have your
back.  We see you for who you are:  made in the image of God and
deserving of dignity, respect, and support.  That is why I have taken
historic action to protect the LGBTQI+ community.  We are ensuring that
the LGBTQI+ community is protected against discrimination when accessing
health care, and the Department of Health and Human Services, Department
of Homeland Security, and Department of Justice launched a safety
partnership to provide critical training and support to the community,
including resources to help report hate crimes and better protect
festivals, marches, community centers, businesses, and health care
providers serving the community.  The Department of Education and the
Department of Justice are also addressing whether book bans may violate
Federal civil rights laws when they target LGBTQI+ students or students
of color and create hostile classroom environments.  Additionally, we
are providing specialized services through the nationwide crisis hotline
for LGBTQI+ youth who feel isolated and overwhelmed — anyone who needs
help can call 988 and then press 3 to be connected to a professional
counselor.  We are committing more resources for mental health programs
that help families support and affirm their kids and are starting a new
Federal initiative to address LGBTQI+ homelessness.  We finalized new
regulations requiring States to protect LGBTQI+ kids in foster care.

America is the only Nation in the world founded on an idea:  We are all
created equal and deserve to be treated equally throughout our lives. 
We have never fully lived up to that idea, but we have never fully
walked away from it either.  This month, we recommit to realizing the
promise of America for all Americans, to celebrating courageous LGBTQI+
people, and to taking pride in the example they set for our Nation and
the world.  

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim June 2024 as
Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer, and Intersex Pride Month.  I
call upon the people of the United States to recognize the achievements
of the LGBTQI+ community, to celebrate the great diversity of the
American people, and to wave their flags of pride high.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first
day of May, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.

                              JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
