---
date: '2024-05-10'
modified_time: 2024-05-10 11:55:39-04:00
published_time: 2024-05-10 11:55:38-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/05/10/a-proclamation-on-national-defense-transportation-day-and-national-transportation-week-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Defense Transportation Day and National Transportation\
  \ Week,\_2024"
---
 
     During National Defense Transportation Day and National
Transportation Week, we recommit to embarking on an infrastructure
decade.  Because the stronger and safer our infrastructure is, the
stronger and safer we are as a Nation.  

     America used to have the best infrastructure in the world.  But for
years, we stopped investing in our infrastructure and our workers.  We
embraced trickle-down economics, shipping jobs overseas to the cheapest
places in the world for labor and importing low-quality products back
home.  It never worked.  Trickle-down economics hollowed out the middle
class, left America’s workers behind, and kept our Nation’s
infrastructure stuck in the past.

     That is why I signed the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law — a
once-in-a-generation investment in American infrastructure and the
largest investment in public transit in history.  Over 51,000 new
projects are transforming our communities — including modernizing our
rail infrastructure and ports, fixing our roads and bridges, bringing
public transportation to more communities, providing high-speed internet
all over America, and more.  These investments will make our Nation
safer — from decreasing traffic and crashes to facilitating quicker
responses from emergency responders when every minute counts.  It also
means goods will be shipped more quickly and commerce will flow more
freely, ensuring our military, business, and all Americans have what
they need on demand.  We are doing all this work with American products
and American workers.  To date, the economy has created over 15 million
jobs since the beginning of my Administration, including nearly 800,000
manufacturing jobs. 

     I also signed the CHIPS and Science Act to bring the manufacturing
of semiconductors back home.  Semiconductors are those tiny chips that
power everything from automobiles and smartphones to satellites and
weapons systems — and when I came into office, our country was only
producing 10 percent of them, leaving our markets and national security
vulnerable.  I was determined to turn that around, and thanks to my
Administration’s investment in semiconductors, private companies have
invested over $395 billion to bring semiconductor manufacturing back to
America, creating tens of thousands of jobs across the country.   

     On top of this, I signed the Inflation Reduction Act — the most
significant climate investment in the history of the world — to build
America’s clean energy future here at home.  We are building a national
network of electric vehicle chargers while providing tax credits for
consumers to buy electric cars.  So far, we have quadrupled the number
of electric vehicles sold, and 11,000 dealerships have now signed up to
sell more.  We are also modernizing our Nation’s electric grid so that
Americans have access to power even when extreme weather hits.  Like
I have often said, when I think of climate, I think of jobs — and these
investments in our Nation’s clean energy market are providing Americans
with good-paying jobs in their hometowns.  At the same time, we are
working with industry partners to implement the Biden Trucking Action
Plan, which helps keep our Nation’s truck drivers safe.

     My Administration is working to build an America for all Americans,
and we are making sure that these new infrastructure projects benefit
our communities.  When our country began building highways, they would
cut straight through communities, especially ones with Black or Brown
residents, dividing and destroying entire neighborhoods.  To address
this harmful legacy and unify these communities once again, my
Administration launched the Reconnecting Communities Pilot Program — the
first-ever Federal initiative to cap highways and create new green
spaces that connect neighborhoods.  We are leaving no one behind,
opening new doors of opportunity, and making sure every community is
treated with the dignity and respect they deserve.

     Meanwhile, we are making sure that as we rebuild America, we are
making our infrastructure more resilient to threats like extreme weather
and cyber-attacks — upfront and by design through new policy like the
National Security Memorandum on Critical Infrastructure Security and
Resilience (NSM-22).  Under the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law alone, we
have delivered $50 billion for infrastructure resilience — including
nearly $9 billion to make our transportation system stronger — which
will help keep Americans safe and protect our national security. 

     In thousands of cities and towns across America, our workers are
writing the greatest comeback story ever told.  They are getting shovels
in the ground and operating the cranes in the sky and are hard at work
rebuilding our Nation’s infrastructure.  All the while, they are
bringing pride back to our communities and our Nation because they are
proving we can still get big things done when we work together.  That is
what America is all about — building a future of possibilities,
investing in all of America and in all Americans, and making sure
everyone has a fair shot.

     In recognition of the ongoing contributions of our Nation’s
transportation system and in honor of the devoted professionals who work
to sustain its tradition of excellence, the United States Congress has
requested, by joint resolution approved May 16, 1957, as amended (36
U.S.C. 120), that the President designate the third Friday in May of
each year as “National Defense Transportation Day” and, by joint
resolution approved May 14, 1962 (36 U.S.C. 133), that the week in which
that Friday falls be designated as “National Transportation Week.”

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, do hereby proclaim Friday, May 17, 2024, as National
Defense Transportation Day and May 12 through May 18, 2024, as National
Transportation Week.  I urge all Americans to observe these occasions
with appropriate ceremonies, programs, and activities as we show our
appreciation to those who build and operate our Nation’s transportation
systems.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
tenth day of May, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and
of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.  
   
   
   
   
                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
