---
date: '2024-05-31'
modified_time: 2024-05-31 17:06:16-04:00
published_time: 2024-05-31 17:06:15-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/05/31/a-proclamation-on-black-music-month-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Black Music Month,\_2024"
---
 
During Black Music Month, we celebrate the Black artists and creatives
whose work has so often been a tidal wave of change — not only by
defining the American songbook and culture but also by capturing our
greatest hopes for the future and pushing us to march forward together.

Our Nation has only recognized Black Music Month for 45 years, but its
legacy stretches back to our country’s earliest days.  Black music began
when enslaved people, who were cruelly prohibited from communicating in
their native languages, found ways to express themselves through music. 
Set to the sound of African rhythms, they captured the inhumanity,
tragedy, and toll that America’s original sin took on their lives while
also telling the stories of their hopes and dreams, faith and
spirituality, and love and purpose.  Ever since, Black performers have
carried on that tradition of using art to break down barriers, create
sacred spaces for expression, and give voice to the promise of America
for all Americans.  They have created and shaped some of our most
beloved genres of music — like folk, blues, jazz, hip-hop, country, rock
and roll, gospel, spirituals, and R&B.  Black music has set the beat of
the Civil Rights Movement; expressed the inherent dignity and captured
the pride and power of Black communities; and held a mirror to the good,
the bad, and the truth of our Nation.

Black music is a staple of American art and a powerhouse of our culture
— that is why we must continue to open doors for the next generation of
Black artists.  Since I came into office, I have had the honor of
bestowing some of our Nation’s highest awards to some of our most
important Black performers and producers like Gladys Knight, Berry
Gordy, Tania León, Queen Latifah, Dionne Warwick, and more — uplifting
their talent and inspiring others to follow their example.  After making
Juneteenth a National Holiday, I also hosted the first Juneteenth
concert on the South Lawn — where the voices of Jennifer Hudson, Audra
McDonald, Ledisi, and other incredible performers reminded us all of the
beauty of Black music and Black culture that is American music and
American culture.  Last year, Vice President Kamala Harris hosted the
first-ever hip-hop house party at the Vice President’s Residence.  At
the same time, I have helped secure over $100 million to keep concert
halls, theaters, and other venues afloat during the pandemic.  In my
Budget, I ask for a total of over $400 million for the National
Endowment for the Arts and the National Endowment for the Humanities —
that includes funding for arts programs in underserved communities.

Black music embodies the best of American art — inspiring us,
challenging us, and bringing us together.  This month, may we show
gratitude to all the Black artists, whose work speaks to the soul of who
we are, shows us the way forward together, and reminds us to lift every
voice.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim June 2024 as Black
Music Month.  I call upon public officials, educators, and all the
people of the United States to observe this month by honoring Black
musicians and raising awareness and appreciation of Black music.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first
day of May, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.

                              JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
