---
date: '2024-05-17'
modified_time: 2024-05-17 11:12:35-04:00
published_time: 2024-05-17 11:12:34-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/05/17/a-proclamation-on-national-emergency-services-week-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Emergency Services Week,\_2024"
---
 
        During National Emergency Medical Services (EMS) Week, we honor
our Nation’s courageous EMS providers, who put it all on the line to
deliver urgent, life-saving care to people across our country in times
of great need.

Whether paramedics, emergency medical technicians, 911 and 988
dispatchers, or other first responders, EMS providers routinely work
long hours away from loved ones to keep other families whole.  They risk
their own lives and health, staring down storms, floods, or fires and
rushing to rescue people in need.  For many Americans, they are a beacon
of hope in some of life’s toughest moments and let us know we are going
to be okay.  We have a duty to show up for them the way they show up for
us.

That is why my Administration is working to get every EMS department in
America the equipment and support they deserve.  During my first months
in office, we passed the American Rescue Plan, investing billions of
dollars to support EMS roles.  Today, we are working with State, local,
Tribal, and territorial governments to keep EMTs on the job and to help
them handle trauma and burn out.  We are working to get departments the
resources they need to provide better training and equipment for EMS
providers.  To help ease staffing shortages, we are also helping
communities recruit and train more firefighters, who often provide
emergency medical services as well.  We are fighting to ease the burden
of student loans.  In all, we have cancelled debt for 4.6 million
student borrowers, including for nearly 900,000 public service workers
by fixing the Public Service Loan Forgiveness Program, which many
non-profit or government EMS provider employees could be eligible for.  

I have often said that courage lies in every heart, and the expectation
is that it will one day be summoned.  It is summoned every day for
America’s EMS providers.  They embody the best of our Nation — bravery,
honor, and respect, never failing to answer the call to help others.
 This week, we thank them and the unions that protect so many of our EMS
providers and promise to always have their backs.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim May 19 through May
25, 2024, as National Emergency Medical Services Week.  I call upon
public officials, doctors, nurses, paramedics, EMS providers, and all
the people of the United States to observe this week with appropriate
programs, ceremonies, and activities to honor our brave EMS workers and
to pay tribute to the EMS providers who have lost their lives in the
line of duty.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this seventeenth
day of May, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
