---
date: '2024-05-10'
modified_time: 2024-05-10 12:21:36-04:00
published_time: 2024-05-10 12:21:35-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/05/10/a-proclamation-on-womens-health-week-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Women\u2019s Health Week,\_2024"
---
 
     Women comprise more than half our population, but women’s health is
understudied, and its research is vastly underfunded.  Too many of our
medications, treatments, and textbooks are instead based on men’s needs.
 As a result, women spend more of their lives in poor health — too often
having their symptoms dismissed, leaving medical appointments with more
questions than answers, or waiting years to get the diagnosis and
treatment they need.  During National Women’s Health Week, we commit to
changing that by investing in women’s health, closing the research gap,
and getting every woman in this country access to the affordable,
quality health care that she deserves.  

     Last year, the First Lady and I were proud to launch the first-ever
White House Initiative on Women’s Health Research, pioneering the next
generation of medical breakthroughs and transforming the care that women
receive.  We jumpstarted this effort with an investment of $200 million
to the National Institutes of Health specifically for cross-cutting
research on women’s health, and I called on the Congress to deliver $12
billion more to accelerate this work.  These investments will spur
much-needed research into conditions that affect women uniquely, like
menopause and endometriosis, or that affect women differently or at
higher rates, like heart disease and Alzheimer’s.  Further, I issued the
most comprehensive set of executive actions ever to expand and improve
research on women’s health, ensuring that women’s health gets integrated
and prioritized across Federal agencies.  These actions will galvanize
new research on a wide range of topics and help prevent, diagnose, and
treat women’s health conditions once and for all.  Meanwhile, the
Advanced Research Projects Agency for Health is investing $100 million
in its first-ever “Sprint for Women’s Health” to radically accelerate
the next generation of discoveries.

     Early in the Administration, the First Lady and I re-ignited the
Cancer Moonshot initiative to end cancer as we know it — building a
future where the one in three women who will be diagnosed with cancer in
their lifetimes have access to the best treatments and care.  Screening
is an essential tool for survival; my Administration has boosted funding
for breast and cervical cancer early detection and other diagnostic
services for low-income Americans and those who do not have adequate
insurance so everyone can access life-saving preventive care.  We are
also funding new research into heart disease — the top killer of women
in America — while enacting a national strategy to help everyone access
healthier food and get more exercise.  

     Health care should be a right in America, not a privilege.  As Vice
President, I helped pass the Affordable Care Act, expanding coverage to
millions of women and guaranteeing that no one can be denied health
insurance due to a pre-existing condition or pregnancy.  It also ensures
that important preventative services, like Pap smears and mammograms,
are covered.  As President, I am not only protecting the Affordable Care
Act — I am strengthening it, saving millions of working families an
average of $800 per year on their health insurance premiums.  We are
also cracking down on junk insurance so that people are not scammed into
low-quality coverage.  We finally secured Medicare the ability to
negotiate lower prescription drug prices.  We have slashed the cost of
insulin for seniors on Medicare to just $35, down from as high as $400.
 Starting next year, we are capping out-of-pocket prescription drug
costs at $2,000 per year for 30 million women on Medicare, even for
drugs that can cost many times that amount.

     Even as we have made progress in expanding access to care and
lowering health care costs, the threat to women’s reproductive health is
greater today than at any time in generations.  In the wake of the
Supreme Court overturning Roe v. Wade, millions of women live in States
with dangerous abortion bans that put women’s health and lives at risk,
force them to travel out of State for care, and threaten doctors with
jail time.  We are seeing threats to a broad range of reproductive
health care, from contraception to fertility services, undermining
women’s ability to make decisions about their own futures and families.
 These are the most personal and private health care decisions that a
person can make and should be left to a woman and her doctor, not to
politicians.  I have signed three Executive Orders to protect access to
reproductive health care and will continue to take action to defend
reproductive freedom.  I will continue to call on the Congress to send
me a bill supporting the right to choose.  I will sign it and restore
Roe v. Wade as the Federal law of the land. 

     We have also taken steps to protect the health and lives of our
Nation’s mothers, and data shows that rates of maternal mortality are
decreasing across the country.  Thanks to Vice President Kamala Harris’
efforts, 46 States now ensure access to Medicaid postpartum coverage for
12 months after childbirth.  We will continue to work toward
guaranteeing access to essential care before, during, and after
childbirth so that we can finally end the unconscionable maternal
mortality crisis that we have in this country today.  To support new
moms struggling with postpartum depression, anxiety, or a substance use
disorder, my Administration has launched the National Maternal Mental
Health Hotline so that mothers can get confidential help from a
professional right away by calling 1-833-TLC-MAMA.  

     Meanwhile, we are supporting the healing and recovery of domestic
and sexual violence survivors.  I wrote the original Violence Against
Women Act years ago; today, we are bringing its funding to record
levels, supporting shelters and rape crisis centers, addressing the
needs of LGBTQI+ people and other underserved groups, and broadening
protections for survivors. 

     This Women’s Health Week, I encourage women across America to make
their health a priority, and I promise that we are making it a national
priority as well.  To realize our potential as a land of possibilities,
we have to protect and support the health of every woman and girl in our
Nation and build a health care system that puts women, their lives, and
their lived experiences at its center. 

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim May
12 through May 18, 2024, as National Women’s Health Week.  During this
week, I encourage all Americans to join us in a collective effort to
improve and support the health of women and girls and promote health
equity for all.  I encourage all women and girls to prioritize their
health and catch up on any missed screenings, routine care, and
vaccines.

    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this tenth day of
May, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.

                        JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
