---
date: '2024-05-31'
published_time: 2024-05-31 18:29:03-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/05/31/a-proclamation-on-national-homeownership-month-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Homeownership Month,\_2024"
---
 
Owning a home is about more than putting a roof over your family’s head
— it is part of the American Dream.  For generations, it has been a
pathway to the middle class, an opportunity to build community and to
pass down wealth to your children.  But too many Americans today still
struggle to buy a home.  This National Homeownership Month, we recommit
to giving every American a fair shot at that dream.

Whether they rent or buy, Americans deserve a safe place to call home. 
That is why when I signed the American Rescue Plan during the pandemic,
we made sure it kept six million families in their homes by preventing
foreclosures and evictions.  Today, we are seeing fewer foreclosures
than at any time in decades; and more people own homes now than did
before the pandemic.  But we have more to do.

My Administration is delivering on the most consequential housing plan
in more than 50 years, lowering costs now and for the future.  We have
already saved approximately 850,000 homeowners $800 per year with
Federal Housing Authority (FHA) mortgages.  We are providing financial
assistance to help homeowners repair and upgrade their homes, by doing
things like removing toxic lead pipes.  Through my Inflation Reduction
Act ‑- the largest climate bill in history — we are lowering families’
utility costs by helping them make their homes more modern,
energy-efficient, and climate-resilient.  The Department of Housing and
Urban Development (HUD) is helping Americans to access resources that
help avoid foreclosure and eviction and that promote homeownership,
financial literacy, and financial planning.

For new homeowners, my plan proposes a tax credit of $5,000 per year for
the next 2 years for any family earning under $200,000 — money they can
put toward a mortgage when they buy their first home or trade up for
more space.  My plan would also provide first-generation homebuyers with
$25,000 for a down payment.  The Federal Housing Finance Agency is
running a pilot program to make it more affordable to refinance your
home by eliminating title insurance fees on certain federally backed
mortgages, which would save folks $1,500 at closing.  The FHA is now
considering positive rental history when making decisions about
creditworthiness — ensuring that the people who could qualify for
mortgage financing receive it.  We are also working to advance fair
housing, including by rooting out bias in the home appraisal process,
which keeps too many Black and Brown families from enjoying the full
financial returns of homeownership.

To ensure affordable housing is available long-term, we also have to
increase supply — and that means building new homes.  With help from the
Congress, my Administration has cut red tape so more builders can get
Federal financing for new projects.  Thanks in part to these efforts, a
record 1.7 million new housing units are now under construction
nationwide.  My new plan would build two million more affordable homes,
including 400,000 that would be for-sale, rather than for rent, through
the creation of the Neighborhood Homes Tax Credit.  My Administration is
also making it easier for communities to use Federal financing to build
and renovate, or convert spaces like empty offices or hotels into
housing. 

Across the country, Americans are today writing one of the greatest
comeback stories ever told.  Not only are we getting shovels in the
ground and building homes for the next generation, but we are also
seeing more people buy homes for the first time — taking that next step
toward long-term security for themselves and their families.  Today,
more folks can feel that pride of getting their first home, pride in
settling down with their families in a new home, pride in our
communities and pride in America. We are going to keep creating those
new cycles of hope.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim June 2024 as
National Homeownership Month.  I call upon the people of this Nation to
safeguard the American Dream by ensuring that everyone has access to an
affordable home in a community of their choice.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first
day of May, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.

                              JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
