---
date: '2024-05-03'
published_time: 2024-05-03 12:56:33-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/05/03/a-proclamation-on-public-service-recognition-week-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Public Service Recognition Week,\_2024"
---
 
     Our Nation’s over 20 million public servants work hard to deliver
for our families, communities, and country.  Their work matters to
people’s everyday lives:  They keep neighborhoods safe and the buses
running, and build futures for people in their hometowns.  They are the
lifeblood of our democracy, acting as brave first responders, election
workers, and service members defending our country.  This week, we
recognize our Nation’s public servants, who do the humble yet critical
work of keeping our country running.    

     When I came into office, our country was facing an unprecedented
crisis — a pandemic was raging and the economy was reeling.  But we
turned things around — in no small part because of our public servants. 
I signed the American Rescue Plan, providing $350 billion to ensure
public servants could stay on the job.  That money put more police
officers in our communities and more teachers and education support
professionals in our schools.  It went directly to every community in
America so public servants could decide how to best help their
communities.  Because of public servants’ work, child care centers
stayed open, families stayed in their homes, and small businesses stayed
afloat.  At the same time, this legislation also made one of the biggest
investments ever in public safety.  Our public servants have done an
incredible job of putting these resources to work by hiring more
officers for accountable, effective community policing and supporting
violence intervention programs that help prevent crime in the first
place.  Together, we created new jobs, new businesses, and new hope for
folks across the country.

     Our Nation relies on our public servants every day, and they
deserve to be treated with dignity and respect.  That is why I issued an
Executive Order to increase the minimum wage for Federal employees to
$15 per hour, ensuring our public servants are paid fairly while also
attracting more competitive applicants to these critical roles.  I
established a White House Task Force on Worker Organizing and
Empowerment, led by Vice President Harris, to strengthen the right to
organize and bargain collectively, including for Federal Government
workers.  Further, I launched a Government-wide initiative to promote
diversity, equity, and inclusion in the Federal workforce so that it
reflects all the communities we serve.  My Administration finalized a
rule prohibiting Federal agencies from considering an applicant’s
current or past pay when determining their future salaries –-
eliminating gender and racial pay inequities that can otherwise follow
those seeking a job in public service. To ensure all Federal employees
feel safe and supported in the workplace, I took executive action to
protect Federal employees from discrimination on the basis of their
gender identity or sexual orientation — pushing the Federal Government
to become the model employer it can and should be. 

     My Administration has also taken significant action to provide
student debt relief — giving our public servants some well-deserved
breathing room.  I fixed the Public Service Loan Forgiveness Program,
which was designed to make sure public servants could get their student
loans forgiven once they made payments for 10 years.  When I took
office, only 7,000 public servants had had their debts forgiven — it was
past time to fix it.  Thanks to my Administration’s reforms, nearly
876,000 public servants have had their student debts forgiven.

      We must do more to protect our Nation’s public servants, who
provide the expertise necessary for our democracy to function.  To
guarantee that career civil servants can continue to share their
expertise and keep our democracy working, my Administration finalized a
rule to protect the jobs of 2.2 million career civil servants — no
matter who is in office. 

     Meanwhile, my Administration is working to empower and strengthen
the career Federal workforce more than ever before.  My Budget includes
a focus on hiring more public servants into mission critical jobs,
helping provide better services to the American people.  

     This week, I hope all the public servants feel proud.  Across the
country, we are seeing new shovels in the ground, people going to work,
and families thriving.  People are feeling pride in their hometowns and
their country again and in knowing that we can get big things done when
we work together.  We are witnessing the greatest comeback our country
has ever known — in no small part because of the hard work and
dedication of our Nation’s public servants.  

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim May 5
through May 11, 2024, as Public Service Recognition Week.  I call upon
all Americans to celebrate public servants and their contributions this
week and throughout the year.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
third day of May, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and
of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.  
   
                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
