---
date: '2024-05-31'
published_time: 2024-05-31 17:05:01-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/05/31/a-proclamation-on-national-caribbean-american-heritage-month-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Caribbean-American Heritage Month,\_2024"
---
 
     During National Caribbean American Heritage Month, we celebrate the
contributions and the diverse cultures of the millions of people across
our Nation with Caribbean heritage, who have never let us walk away from
our Nation’s most sacred values of opportunity and freedom.

     Caribbean Americans are dreamers and doers, always finding ways to
push our country forward, reach new heights, and forge a more perfect
Union.  From the Caribbean Americans who helped build our country from
the ground up to those who have only just arrived, they have all
believed in the possibilities our country has to offer and strengthened
the diverse fabric of our Nation.  Above all, Caribbean Americans are
leaders — they are our beloved doctors, nurses, teachers, athletes,
artists, community organizers, entrepreneurs, and our service members
and first responders, who put their lives on the line to keep the rest
of us safe.  I am especially proud of the Caribbean Americans serving
across my Administration and working hard to sustain our democracy —
including Vice President Kamala Harris, Secretary of Homeland Security
Alejandro Mayorkas, and White House Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre.

     My Administration recognizes that, to keep the torch of liberty
that has led generations of immigrants to America burning bright, we
must keep ensuring that everyone has a fair shot and access to
opportunity.  And we are delivering.  My Administration has powered a
historic economic recovery that created 15 million jobs, achieved the
fastest creation rate of Black-owned businesses in more than 30 years,
and broke records as Latino entrepreneurs have started new businesses at
the fastest rate in over 10 years.

     Caribbean Americans also form the foundation of our country’s
partnerships with nations across the Caribbean as we work to advance
opportunity and security across the region.  My Administration announced
over $275 million in Bipartisan Infrastructure Law funding for projects
in the U.S. Virgin Islands that will deliver clean and safe water,
access to high-speed internet, public transit, and modern roads and
bridges.  We launched the Puerto Rico Economic Dialogue and made more
than $140 billion in Federal obligations, which have driven the island’s
economic turnaround.  Since I came into office, Puerto Rico has added
more than 100,000 new jobs and unemployment reached a historic low of
under six percent.   We are continuing to work with Caribbean countries
to tackle climate change and support clean energy development.  In
partnership with the Caribbean Community (CARICOM), we launched the
Crime Gun Intelligence Unit to combat firearms trafficking.  Last
summer, my Administration appointed a Coordinator for Caribbean Firearms
Prosecutions to lead our efforts to stem firearms trafficking in the
Caribbean.  Meanwhile, we have been working with CARICOM to restore
stability and security in Haiti by facilitating meaningful and inclusive
political dialogue and supporting the deployment of the Kenyan-led
Multinational Security Support mission.  We must complement our security
investments with economic support.  This is why my Administration
supports the reauthorization of the HOPE/HELP trade preferences program
in order to spur greater economic prosperity in Haiti.

     At the same time, we have been working since day one of my
Administration to fix the broken immigration system so that it is safe,
orderly, and humane — especially for those in the Caribbean community
who are fleeing oppressive rule and trying to escape gang violence to
ensure a better life for them and their families.  We are working to
expand lawful pathways to the United States for Caribbean individuals
and establish a faster process for deciding claims of asylum for people
who are credibly seeking protection from persecution.  My Administration
will continue to do everything we can, including calling on the Congress
to finally act and pass critical resources and reforms. 

     America was founded on the idea that all people are created equal
and deserve to be treated equally throughout their lives.  That promise
beats in the hearts of all Caribbean Americans, who have added new
meaning to our Nation’s founding values. That idea is what connects us
to all the Caribbean nations and territories working toward a future
rooted in freedom and democracy.  This month, may we celebrate all that
Caribbean heritage, history, and contributions have meant to our
Nation. 

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim June
2024 as National Caribbean American Heritage Month.  I encourage all
Americans to join in celebrating the history, culture, and achievements
of Caribbean Americans with appropriate ceremonies and activities.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
thirty-first day of May, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-four, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-eighth.  
   
   
                              JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
