---
date: '2024-05-31'
modified_time: 2024-06-03 11:45:42-04:00
published_time: 2024-05-31 11:15:11-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/05/31/authorizing-cameron-county-texas-to-construct-maintain-and-operate-a-vehicular-and-pedestrian-border-crossing-near-brownsville-texas-at-the-international-boundary-between-the-united-states-and-m/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Presidential Permit Authorizing Cameron County, Texas, to Construct, Maintain,\
  \ and Operate a Vehicular and Pedestrian Border Crossing Near Brownsville, Texas,\
  \ at the International Boundary Between the United\_States and\_Mexico"
---
 
By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United
States of America (the “President”), I hereby grant permission, subject
to the conditions set forth herein, to Cameron County, Texas (the
“Permittee”), to construct, maintain, and operate a vehicular and
pedestrian crossing located on the United States border with Mexico in
Brownsville, Texas, as described in the “Cameron County Flor de Mayo
International Bridge Presidential Permit Application” dated September
14, 2021 (“September 14, 2021, Application”), by the permittee to the
Secretary of State and determined to be complete on February 13, 2024,
in accordance with 33 U.S.C. 535d and associated procedures.

     The term “Border facilities” as used in this permit consists of the
bridge over the Rio Grande, its approaches, and any land, structures,
installations, or equipment appurtenant thereto located on the United
States side of the international boundary between the United States and
Mexico, approximately 8 river miles from the Brownville and Matamoros
International Bridge and 35.6 river miles from the existing Free Trade
Bridge at Los Indios. 

     This permit is subject to the following conditions:

**    ** Article 1.  The Border facilities herein described and all
aspects of their operation are subject to all the conditions,
provisions, and requirements of this permit and any subsequent
Presidential amendment to it.  The construction, maintenance, and
operation of the Border facilities shall be in all material respects as
described in the September 14, 2021, Application.

**    ** Article 2.  The standards for and the manner of construction,
maintenance, and operation of the Border facilities are subject to
inspection by the representatives of appropriate Federal, State, and
local agencies.  The permittee shall grant officers and employees of
such agencies that are duly authorized and performing their official
duties free and unrestricted access to said Border facilities.

**    ** Article 3.  The permittee shall comply with all applicable
Federal laws and regulations regarding the construction, maintenance,
and operation of the Border facilities.

**    ** Article 4.  (1)  The permittee shall take or cause to be taken
all appropriate measures to mitigate adverse impacts on or disruption of
the human environment in connection with the construction, maintenance,
and operation of the Border facilities.  Mitigation measures are those
that avoid, minimize, or compensate for adverse impacts.

     (2)  The permittee shall hold harmless and indemnify the United
States for any claimed or adjudged liability arising out of
construction, maintenance, and operation of the Border facilities,
including environmental contamination from the release, threatened
release, or discharge of hazardous substances or hazardous waste.

**    ** (3)  The permittee is responsible for obtaining any required
Federal, State, and local permits, approvals, and authorizations prior
to commencing construction activities.  The permittee shall implement
the mitigation identified in any environmental decision documents
prepared in accordance with the National Environmental Policy Act and
Federal permits, including stormwater permits and permits issued in
accordance with section 402 of the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. 1342). 
The permittee shall comply with applicable Federal, State, and local
environmental laws.

**    ** Article 5.  The permittee shall immediately notify the
President or his designee of any decision to transfer custody and
control of the Border facilities or any part thereof to any executive
department or agency (agency) of the United States Government.  Said
notice shall identify the transferee agency and seek the approval of the
President for the transfer of the permit.  In the event of approval by
the President of such transfer, this permit shall remain in force and
effect, and the Border facilities shall be subject to all the
conditions, permissions, and requirements of this permit and any
amendments thereof.  The permittee may transfer ownership or control of
the Border facilities to a non-Federal entity or individual only upon
the prior express approval of such transfer by the President, which
approval may include such conditions, permissions, and requirements that
the President, in the President’s discretion, determines are appropriate
and necessary for inclusion in the permit, to be effective on the date
of transfer.

**    ** Article 6.  The permittee is responsible for acquiring and
maintaining any right-of-way grants or easements, permits, and other
authorizations as may become necessary or appropriate.  To ensure the
safe operation of the Border facilities, the permittee shall maintain
them and every part of them in a condition of good repair and in
compliance with applicable law and use of best management practices.

     Article 7.  To the extent authorized by law, and consistent with
any Donation Acceptance Agreements (DAAs) already executed with the
permittee under the Donation Acceptance Authority found in 6 U.S.C. 301a
and section 559 of title V of division F of the Consolidated
Appropriations Act, 2014 (Public Law 113-76), as amended, as continued
by 6 U.S.C. 301b, the permittee shall provide to the Commissioner of
U.S. Customs and Border Protection (Commissioner) of the Department of
Homeland Security and the heads of any other relevant agencies, at no
cost to the United States, suitable inspection facilities,
infrastructure improvements, equipment, and maintenance, as set forth in
the DAAs.  Nothing in this permit obligates such agencies to provide a
particular level of services or staffing for such inspection facilities
or for any other aspect of the port of entry associated with the Border
facilities.

     Article 8.  Before beginning design activities, the permittee shall
fulfill requirements associated with the following conditions, as
refined by the relevant agencies below and as consistent with applicable
law:

     (1)  Obtain the concurrence of the United States Section of the
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico;

     (2)  Provide a plan for the approval of the Commissioner detailing
how the permittee will fund the necessary staffing by U.S. Customs and
Border Protection for the Border facilities upon commencement of
operations and thereafter;

     (3)  Provide a plan for the approval of the Administrator of
General Services (Administrator) and the Commissioner detailing how the
permittee will fund the necessary operations and maintenance costs for
the Border facilities upon commencement of operations and thereafter;
and

     (4)  Provide a plan for the approval of the Administrator and the
Commissioner detailing how the permittee will fund construction,
outfitting (furniture, fixtures, and equipment to include information
technology and necessary inspection technologies), technology
integration, and outyear refresh of said program elements for the Border
facilities detailed in their September 14, 2021, Application.

Relevant agencies will coordinate with the permittee to further refine
the above conditions, as necessary, within 1 year of permit issuance.

**    ** Article 9.  The permittee shall not initiate construction until
the Department of State has provided notification to the permittee that
the Department of State has completed its exchange of diplomatic notes
with the Government of Mexico regarding authorization.  The permittee
shall provide written notification to the President or his designee at
the time that the construction authorized by this permit begins, at the
time as such construction is completed, interrupted, or discontinued,
and at other times as may be requested by the President.

     Article 10.  Upon request, the permittee shall provide appropriate
information to the President or his designee with regard to the Border
facilities.  Such requests could include requests for information
concerning current conditions, environmental compliance, mitigation, or
anticipated changes in ownership or control, construction, connection,
operation, or maintenance of the Border facilities.

**    ** Article 11.  The permittee shall file any applicable statements
and reports required by applicable Federal law in connection with the
Border facilities.

**    ** Article 12.  The permittee shall make no substantial change to
the Border facilities, in the location of the Border facilities, or in
the operation authorized by this permit, unless such changes have been
approved by the President.  The President may terminate, revoke, or
amend this permit at any time at his sole discretion.  The permittee’s
obligation to implement any amendment to this permit is subject to the
availability of funds.  If the permittee permanently closes the Flor de
Mayo International Bridge and it is no longer used as an international
crossing, then this permit shall terminate, and the permittee may
manage, utilize, or dispose of the Border facilities in accordance with
applicable authorities.  This permit shall continue in full force and
effect for only so long as the permittee continues the operations hereby
authorized. 

**    ** Article 13.  This permit shall expire 5 years from the date of
its issuance if the permittee has not commenced construction of the
Border facilities by that date.

**    ** Article 14.  This permit is not intended to, and does
not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable
at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its
departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents,
or any other person.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this

thirty-first day of May, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-four, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-eighth.

                              JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
