---
date: '2024-05-31'
modified_time: 2024-05-31 17:05:42-04:00
published_time: 2024-05-31 17:05:41-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/05/31/a-proclamation-on-national-immigrant-heritage-month-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Immigrant Heritage Month,\_2024"
---
 
America is the only country in the world with a heart and soul that
draws from old and new.  We are home to people whose ancestors have been
here for thousands of years and home to people from every place on
Earth.  Some people came freely, some came chained by force, some came
when famine struck or to flee persecution, and some came to chase dreams
that are only possible here in America.  We all come from somewhere, but
we are all Americans.  This month, we honor the contributions and
celebrate the remarkable courage of our Nation’s immigrants, whose hopes
and dreams helped found this country and continue to push us forward
today.

My own family came to America in the mid-1800s, when famine struck their
homeland in Ireland.  The Finnegans of County Louth and the Blewitts of
County Mayo traveled across an ocean, landing on America’s shores with
an unbending belief in the possibilities our Nation had to offer.  Vice
President Kamala Harris’ parents emigrated from India and Jamaica to
pursue their education in medicine and economics.  So many Americans
share a similar story — their families leaving everything behind to
pursue the American Dream and working tirelessly to build good lives for
themselves and good futures for their families.

Immigrants keep our economy strong and help drive the success of our
Nation.  They ensure our safety as first responders and military service
members; they maintain the health of our communities as doctors and
nurses; they are there for our family members and children as educators
and care workers; they feed and fuel our population as more than half of
the Nation’s farmworkers; they are one in five of our business owners;
and they are leaders in technology, philanthropy, and media.  All told,
they contribute hundreds of billions of dollars in taxes each year and
create millions of jobs.  The ingenuity, grit, and perseverance of
immigrants are driving forces in every aspect of American life.

On day one of my Administration, I sent a comprehensive plan to the
Congress to fix our broken immigration system.  It aimed to expand legal
pathways of immigration; provide protections for Dreamers and others who
contribute to this country; and address the violence, corruption, and
instability that leads many to flee their homes.  My Administration has
worked tirelessly to strengthen our legal immigration system and support
those who are here.  We have rebuilt the United States Refugee
Admissions Program, which once again serves as a beacon for displaced
persons around the world.  We continue to vigorously defend the Deferred
Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) policy, which has allowed more than
800,000 Dreamers to live and work in the place they call home, against
attacks in the courts.  For the first time ever, we have extended
Affordable Care Act coverage to DACA recipients.  We have also expanded
legal pathways for people from Venezuela, Cuba, Nicaragua, and Haiti and
instituted reunification programs so that families stay together while
they complete the immigration process.  My Administration will continue
to do everything we can, but we need the Congress to take action and
provide funding and resources necessary to secure our border and reform
our immigration system.

As Americans, we have an obligation to ensure that everyone feels safe
and respected.  We must give hate no safe harbor.  But too often,
immigrant communities remain the target of bias and discrimination. 
That is why my Administration is fighting against the rise of all forms
of hate.  In 2021, I signed the COVID-19 Hate Crimes Act, making it
easier to report hate crimes, and I also established the White House
Initiative on Hate-Motivated Violence to counter these types of attacks
and foster national unity.  

During my trip to Ireland last year, I walked the streets my ancestors
used to walk and looked out at the ocean they crossed two centuries
earlier to reach America.  For hundreds of years, people from around the
world have made the courageous trek to our Nation’s soil.  They are
drawn to our shores by the American idea that we are all created equal
and deserve to be treated equally throughout our lives.  We have never
fully lived up to that promise, but we have never walked away from it
either.  This month — and every month — may we recommit to keeping lit
the torch of liberty that has led generations of immigrants to America.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim June 2024 as
National Immigrant Heritage Month.  I call upon the people of the United
States to learn more about the history of our Nation’s diverse and
varied immigrant communities and to observe this month with appropriate
programs and activities that remind us of the values of diversity,
equity, and inclusion.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this

thirty-first day of May, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-four, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-eighth.

                              JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
