---
date: '2024-05-23'
modified_time: 2024-05-23 12:01:43-04:00
published_time: 2024-05-23 12:01:42-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/05/23/president-biden-names-fiftieth-round-of-judicial-nominees/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "President\_Biden Names Fiftieth Round of Judicial\_Nominees"
---
 
The President is announcing his intent to nominate two individuals to
federal circuit courts and two individuals to federal district
courts—all of whom are extraordinarily qualified, experienced, and
devoted to the rule of law and our Constitution.

These choices also continue to fulfill the President’s promise to ensure
that the nation’s courts reflect the diversity that is one of our
greatest assets as a country—both in terms of personal and professional
backgrounds.

This will be President Biden’s fiftieth round of nominees for federal
judicial positions, bringing the number of announced federal judicial
nominees to 244.

**United States Circuit Court Announcements**

1.  **Karla M. Campbell: Nominee for the United States Court of Appeals
    for the Sixth Circuit**

Karla M. Campbell is of counsel at the law firm Stranch Jennings &
Garvey PLLC in Nashville, Tennessee. She first joined the firm in 2009,
became a partner in 2015, and then became of counsel in 2022. From 2010
to 2011, Ms. Campbell served as a law clerk for Judge Jane Stranch on
the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit. From 2008 to 2009, Ms.
Campbell was an attorney at the law firm Watson & Renner in Washington,
D.C. She received her J.D. from Georgetown University Law Center in 2008
and her B.A. from the University of Virginia in 2002.

1.  **Justice Julia M. Lipez: Nominee for the United States Court of
    Appeals for the First Circuit**

Justice Julia M. Lipez has been a justice on the Maine Superior Court
since 2022. From 2011 to 2022, Justice Lipez worked as an Assistant
United States Attorney in the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of
Maine, where she served as Appellate Chief from 2019 to 2022. Prior to
that, Justice Lipez worked as an associate and then a senior associate
at Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr LLP in New York from 2007 to
2011. She served as a law clerk for Judge Diana Gribbon Motz on the U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit from 2006 to 2007. Justice Lipez
received her J.D., with distinction, from Stanford Law School in 2006
and her B.A., magna cum laude, from Amherst College in 2002.

**United States District Court Announcements**

1.  **Catherine Henry: Nominee for the United States District Court for
    the Eastern District of Pennsylvania**

Catherine Henry has been an Assistant Federal Defender in the Federal
Community Defender’s Office for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania
since 2001. Ms. Henry previously worked as a public defender at the
Defender Association of Philadelphia from 1996 to 2001. Before that, she
was a staff attorney at the Feminist Majority Foundation in Arlington,
Virginia from 1995 to 1996. She received her J.D. from the District of
Columbia School of Law in 1995 and her B.A. from Drew University in
1991.

1.  **Mary Kay Lanthier: Nominee for the United States District Court
    for the District of Vermont**

Mary Kay Lanthier has been the supervising attorney in the Rutland
County Public Defender’s Office since 2007. She was previously a public
defender with the Addison County Public Defender’s Office from 2000 to
2003. Ms. Lanthier also worked in private practice as an associate and
then a partner at Marsh & Wagner, PC, from 2003 to 2007 and as an
associate at Keiner & Dumont, PC, from 1998 to 2000. From 1996 to 1998,
she served as a law clerk for the judges of the Vermont Trial Court in
the Chittenden County and Addison County Courts. Ms. Lanthier received
her J.D. from Northeastern University School of Law in 1996 and her B.A.
from Amherst College in 1993.

\###
