---
date: '2024-05-31'
modified_time: 2024-06-03 11:45:36-04:00
published_time: 2024-05-31 11:14:33-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/05/31/authorizing-the-city-of-laredo-texas-to-expand-and-continue-to-maintain-and-operate-a-vehicular-and-pedestrian-border-crossing-at-the-world-trade-bridge-land-port-of-entry/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Presidential Permit Authorizing the City of Laredo, Texas, to Expand and Continue\
  \ to Maintain and Operate a Vehicular and Pedestrian Border Crossing at the World\
  \ Trade Bridge Land Port of\_Entry"
---
 
By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United
States of America (the “President”), I hereby grant permission, subject
to the conditions set forth herein, to the City of Laredo in Webb
County, Texas (the “permittee”), to expand and continue to maintain and
operate a vehicular and pedestrian crossing at the World Trade Bridge
Land Port of Entry located on the United States border with Mexico in
Laredo, Texas, as described in the “Laredo World Trade Bridge Expansion
Project Presidential Permit Application” dated April 29, 2022 (“April
29, 2022, Application”), by the permittee to the Secretary of State and
determined to be complete on February 9, 2024, in accordance with 33
U.S.C. 535d and associated procedures.

     The term “Border facilities” as used in this permit consists of the
bridge over the Rio Grande, including two additional commercial lanes on
the existing World Trade Bridge land port of entry and the addition of a
second span adjacent to the existing World Trade Bridge land port of
entry, its approaches, and any land, structures, installations, or
equipment appurtenant thereto located approximately 9.35 river miles
north of Laredo International Bridge I on the United States side of the
international boundary between the United States and Mexico.

     This permit is subject to the following conditions:

**    ** Article 1.  The Border facilities herein described and all
aspects of their operation are subject to all the conditions,
provisions, and requirements of this permit and any subsequent
Presidential amendment to it.  The construction, maintenance, and
operation of the Border facilities shall be in all material respects as
described in the April 29, 2022, Application.

**    ** Article 2.  The standards for and the manner of construction,
maintenance, and operation of the Border facilities are subject to
inspection by the representatives of appropriate Federal, State, and
local agencies.  The permittee shall grant officers and employees of
such agencies that are duly authorized and performing their official
duties free and unrestricted access to said Border facilities.

**    ** Article 3.  The permittee shall comply with all applicable
Federal laws and regulations regarding the construction, maintenance,
and operation of the Border facilities.

**    ** Article 4.  (1)  The permittee shall take or cause to be taken
all appropriate measures to mitigate adverse impacts on or disruption of
the human environment in connection with the construction, maintenance,
and operation of the Border facilities.  Mitigation measures are those
that avoid, minimize, or compensate for adverse impacts.

     (2)  The permittee shall hold harmless and indemnify the United
States for any claimed or adjudged liability arising out of
construction, maintenance, and operation of the Border facilities,
including environmental contamination from the release, threatened
release, or discharge of hazardous substances or hazardous waste.

     (3)  The permittee is responsible for obtaining any required
Federal, State, and local permits, approvals, and authorizations prior
to commencing construction activities.  The permittee shall implement
the mitigation identified in any environmental decision documents
prepared in accordance with the National Environmental Policy Act and
Federal permits, including stormwater permits and permits issued in
accordance with section 402 of the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. 1342). 
The permittee shall comply with applicable Federal, State, and local
environmental laws.

     Article 5.  The permittee shall immediately notify the President or
his designee of any decision to transfer custody and control of the
Border facilities or any part thereof to any executive department or
agency (agency) of the United States Government.  Said notice shall
identify the transferee agency and seek the approval of the President
for the transfer of the permit.  In the event of approval by the
President of such transfer, this permit shall remain in force and
effect, and the Border facilities shall be subject to all the
conditions, permissions, and requirements of this permit and any
amendments thereof.  The permittee may transfer ownership or control of
the Border facilities to a non-Federal entity or individual only upon
the prior express approval of such transfer by the President, which
approval may include such conditions, permissions, and requirements that
the President, in the President’s discretion, determines are appropriate
and necessary for inclusion in the permit, to be effective on the date
of transfer.

     Article 6.  The permittee is responsible for acquiring and
maintaining any right-of-way grants or easements, permits, and other
authorizations as may become necessary or appropriate.  To ensure the
safe operation of the Border facilities, the permittee shall maintain
them and every part of them in a condition of good repair and in
compliance with applicable law and use of best management practices.

**    ** Article 7.  To the extent authorized by law, and consistent
with Donation Acceptance Agreements (DAAs) already executed with the
permittee under the Donation Acceptance Authority found in 6 U.S.C. 301a
and section 559 of title V of division F of the Consolidated
Appropriations Act, 2014 (Public Law 113-76), as amended, as continued
by 6 U.S.C. 301b, the permittee shall provide to the Commissioner of
U.S. Customs and Border Protection of the Department of Homeland
Security and the heads of any other relevant agencies, at no cost to the
United States, suitable inspection facilities, infrastructure
improvements, equipment, and maintenance, as set forth in the DAAs.
 Nothing in this permit obligates such agencies to provide a particular
level of services or staffing for such inspection facilities or for any
other aspect of the port of entry associated with the Border facilities.

**    ** Article 8.  Upon request, the permittee shall provide
appropriate information to the President or his designee with regard to
the Border facilities.  Such requests could include requests for
information concerning current conditions, environmental compliance,
mitigation, or anticipated changes in ownership or control,
construction, connection, operation, or maintenance of the Border
facilities.

**    ** Article 9.  Before initiating construction, the permittee shall
obtain the concurrence of the United States Section of the International
Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico.

**    ** Article 10.  The permittee shall not initiate construction
until the Department of State has provided notification to the permittee
that the Department of State has completed its exchange of diplomatic
notes with the Government of Mexico regarding authorization.  The
permittee shall provide written notification to the President or his
designee at the time that the construction authorized by this permit
begins, at the time as such construction is completed, interrupted, or
discontinued, and at other times as may be requested by the President.

**    ** Article 11.  The permittee shall file any applicable statements
and reports required by applicable Federal law in connection with the
Border facilities.

**    ** Article 12.  The permittee shall make no substantial change to
the Border facilities, in the location of the Border facilities, or in
the operation authorized by this permit, unless such changes have been
approved by the President.  The President may terminate, revoke, or
amend this permit at any time at his sole discretion.  The permittee’s
obligation to implement any amendment to this permit is subject to the
availability of funds.  If the permittee permanently closes the World
Trade Bridge and it is no longer used as an international crossing, then
this permit shall terminate, and the permittee may manage, utilize, or
dispose of the Border facilities in accordance with applicable
authorities.  This permit shall continue in full force and effect for
only so long as the permittee continues the operations hereby
authorized. 

**    ** Article 13.  This permit shall expire 5 years from the date of
its issuance if the permittee has not commenced construction of the
Border facilities by that date.

**    ** Article 14.  This permit is not intended to, and does
not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable
at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its
departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents,
or any other person.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this

thirty-first day of May, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-four, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-eighth.

                              JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
