---
date: '2024-05-17'
published_time: 2024-05-17 11:39:08-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/05/17/a-proclamation-on-armed-forces-day-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Armed Forces Day,\_2024"
---
 
Our Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, Space Force, Coast Guard,
National Guard, and Reserve Forces comprise the greatest fighting force
the world has ever known.  Throughout the annals of history, they have
stood on the frontlines of freedom — risking everything to keep the
light of liberty burning bright at home and around the globe.  On Armed
Forces Day, we honor their service.  We remember their selfless
sacrifices.  We renew our solemn vow to them and their families,
caregivers, and survivors.

Our Nation has many obligations but only one that is truly sacred:  to
train and equip those we send into harm’s way and care for them and
their families when they come home.  Since I came into office, I have
signed over 30 bipartisan bills to support our service members, our
veterans, and their families.  That includes the PACT Act — the most
significant law in our Nation’s history to help the millions of veterans
who were exposed to toxic substances and burn pits during their military
service.  Further, we are working to ensure that service members and
their families have access to the mental health care they need — an
important step toward ending the silent scourge of suicide that has
already taken too many lives. 

At the same time, we are working to give service members, veterans, and
their families some well-deserved breathing room.  My Administration
helped fix the student loan system, easing the burden of $160 billion of
student debt for nearly 4.6 million Federal student loan borrowers
through various actions.  This year, I took the most comprehensive set
of administrative actions in our Nation’s history to support the
economic security of military families, spouses, caregivers, and
survivors.  We are making it easier for military spouses to find work by
making it easier for the Federal Government to hire them, encouraging
employers to offer more flexible leave policies, and lowering the cost
of child care for military families.  Through the First Lady’s Joining
Forces Initiative, we are taking further action to support military and
veteran spouses in finding and keeping good-paying jobs as well as
health and wellness resources. 

As Commander in Chief, I am committed to ensuring that every member of
our military feels safe and respected — and that means ensuring
inclusivity, dignity, and decency remain at the core of the culture of
our Armed Forces.  I am proud to have implemented historic, bipartisan
reforms to our military justice system, which better protect victims and
ensure prosecutorial decisions for sexual assault, domestic violence,
and other crimes are fully independent from the chain of command.  One
of my earliest acts in office was to end the ban on transgender
Americans serving openly in the military.  My Administration will
continue to stand up to all forms of harassment and hate within our
ranks so that all our service members can thrive.

No matter how high the cost, how great the risk, or how heavy the burden
— through long deployments and dangers, frequent moves and challenging
trainings, and the many other unique burdens of serving our country —
our Nation’s Armed Forces have always met the moment.  They exemplify
the very best of our Nation.  Today — and every day — let us honor their
service, sacrifice, courage, and commitment.  Let us continue to meet
our sacred obligation to them and their families, caregivers, and
survivors.

May God bless and protect our service members and veterans.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America and Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces of the United
States, continuing the precedent of my predecessors in office, do hereby
proclaim the third Saturday of each May as Armed Forces Day.

I direct the Secretary of Defense, on behalf of the Army, Navy, Air
Force, Marine Corps, and Space Force, and the Secretary of Homeland
Security, on behalf of the Coast Guard, to plan for appropriate
observances each year, with the Secretary of Defense responsible for
soliciting the participation and cooperation of civil authorities and
private citizens.  I invite the Governors of the States, the
Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and other areas subject to the jurisdiction
of the United States to provide for the observance of Armed Forces Day
within their respective jurisdictions each year in an appropriate manner
designed to increase public understanding and appreciation of the Armed
Forces of the United States.  I also invite veterans, civic leaders, and
other organizations to join in the observance of Armed Forces Day each
year.

Finally, I call upon all Americans to display the flag of the United
States at their homes and businesses on Armed Forces Day, and I urge
citizens to learn more about military service by attending and
participating in the local observances of the day.

Proclamation 10585 of May 19, 2023, is hereby superseded.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this seventeenth
day of May, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
