---
date: '2024-05-31'
modified_time: 2024-05-31 18:34:44-04:00
published_time: 2024-05-31 18:34:43-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/05/31/a-proclamation-on-national-ocean-month-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Ocean Month,\_2024"
---
 
This National Ocean Month, we celebrate the wonder and power of our
magnificent ocean and recommit to protecting and conserving it for
generations to come.  The ocean powers millions of jobs; feeds and
sustains us; and is a rejuvenating source of inspiration, exploration,
and recreation.  Its rich ecosystems of marine animals, plants, and
other species have been stewarded by Tribal Nations and Indigenous
communities since time immemorial.  And protecting and caring for the
ocean is critical to tackling the existential threat of our time:
climate change. 

Today, the ocean is facing unprecedented threats.  Record-breaking ocean
temperatures, together with pollution and ocean acidification, have
forced marine life from their historic habitats, damaging ecosystems and
straining communities who rely on the ocean for sustenance and work.
 Rising sea levels and warmer ocean waters have also endangered food
supply chains and contributed to increasingly dangerous storms, which
devastate coastal communities.  

That is why my Administration is taking aggressive action to deliver the
most ambitious climate agenda in history.  We launched the Nation’s
first Ocean Climate Action Plan, a bold and coordinated effort to
address the climate crisis.  We are protecting and restoring key coastal
habitats, such as marshes, mangroves, seagrass beds, coral reefs, and
more, helping protect communities on land, reduce the impact of natural
disasters along our shores, and protect biodiversity. 

With historic investments from my Inflation Reduction Act and Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law, we are expanding offshore wind projects so that we
have enough capacity to power 10 million homes by 2030 while creating
good-paying jobs.  Meanwhile, as we launch tens of thousands of projects
to modernize our Nation’s infrastructure, we are working to lower the
carbon footprint of cargo ships, build cleaner supply chains, and reduce
pollution.  We are cracking down on illegal fishing and strengthening
sustainable fisheries so that we protect hardworking Americans who rely
on our ocean to make a living.  

My Administration has also been working tirelessly to fulfill our goal
of protecting and conserving at least 30 percent of America’s lands and
waters, including our ocean.  To that end, I took executive action to
consider designating more than 700,000 square miles of the Pacific Ocean
southwest of Hawaii as a new National Marine Sanctuary — which could
make this one of the largest marine protected areas on the planet.  If
the sanctuary is completed, it would conserve significant natural and
cultural resources and honor the traditional practices and ancestral
pathways of Pacific Island voyagers.  My Administration is also
carefully evaluating the potential Chumash Heritage National Marine
Sanctuary, the first Indigenous-led nomination for a National Marine
Sanctuary.  Through the first-ever United States Ocean Justice Strategy
and my Investing in America agenda, we are bringing environmental
justice to communities that have suffered the consequences of climate
change and pollution for too long — including millions of dollars in
investments for ocean debris prevention and removal through my
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and funding for communities to restore
their coasts through my Inflation Reduction Act. 

This National Ocean Month, let us remember our responsibility to our
environment and recommit to conserving, protecting, and restoring the
bounty and beauty of our ocean.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim June 2024 as
National Ocean Month.  I call upon Americans to take action to protect,
conserve, and restore our ocean and coasts.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first
day of May, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.

                              JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
