---
date: '2025-06-27'
published_time: 2025-06-27 13:45:45-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/2025/06/a-big-win-supreme-court-ends-excessive-nationwide-injunctions/
tags: articles
title: "\u201CA BIG WIN\u201D: Supreme Court Ends Excessive Nationwide Injunctions"
---
 
*“Today’s decision restores the proper separation of powers between the
branches of government. Ending nationwide injunctions is a tremendous
victory for the American people and the rule of law.”* — White House
Counsel David Warrington

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**No longer can rogue, activist judges abuse their authority to dictate
the executive powers of the President of the United States, the Supreme
Court**
[**ruled**](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1938619945652244696)
**— a massive victory for the Constitution, the rule of law, and the
presidency itself.**

Since the moment President Trump took office, low-level activist judges
have been exploiting their positions to kneecap the agenda on which he
was overwhelmingly elected. In fact, of the 40 nationwide injunctions
filed against President Trump’s executive actions in his second term,
[35 of them](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1938629547928506391)
came from just five far-left jurisdictions: California, Maryland,
Massachusetts, Washington, and the District of Columbia.

Now, the Trump Administration can promptly proceed with critical action
to save the country — like ending birthright citizenship, ceasing
sanctuary city funding, suspending refugee resettlement, freezing
unnecessary funding, stopping taxpayers from funding transgender
surgeries, and much more.

**The Supreme Court’s commonsense decision was rightly hailed as a huge
win:**

[President
Trump](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1938627245482131554): “The
Supreme Court has delivered a monumental victory for the Constitution,
the separation of powers, and the RULE OF LAW in striking down the
excessive use of nationwide injunctions … I was elected on a historic
mandate, but in recent months, we’ve seen a handful of radical left
judges effectively try to overrule the rightful powers of the president
to stop the American people from getting the policies that they voted
for in record numbers. It was a grave threat to democracy.”

[Attorney General Pam
Bondi](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1938627972874854848):
“Americans are finally getting what they voted for. No longer will we
have rogue judges striking down President Trump’s policies across the
entire nation — no longer.”

[CNN chief legal affairs correspondent Paula
Reid](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1938620409039278394): “This
is a big win for President Trump because he has been railing against
these so-called nationwide injunctions … The justices are agreeing with
Trump and limiting this power that judges have to block a policy for the
entire country.”

[CNN senior legal analyst Elie
Honig](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1938622028275462432): “Such
a big win for the Trump Administration and … the Office of the
President.”

[Attorney Jonathan
Turley](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1938622767727002077): “I
think that the Trump Administration has very good reason to celebrate.
These district court judges have really tied down the administration.”

[Sen. John
Kennedy](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1938618888045920465):
“Anybody who knows a law book from an L.L. Bean catalog knows that
federal judges just made up this concept of universal injunctions … They
just made it up because they don’t agree with what a President or
Congress has done.”

[MSNBC legal analyst Melissa
Murray](https://x.com/JasonJournoDC/status/1938618238578909650): “This
is a huge win for the Trump administration.”

[*The New York
Times*](https://www.nytimes.com/live/2025/06/27/us/birthright-citizenship-supreme-court):
“A major victory for President Trump”

[NBC
News](https://www.nbcnews.com/politics/supreme-court/supreme-court-curbs-injunctions-blocked-trumps-birthright-citizenship-rcna199742):
“A major win to the Trump administration”

[*New York
Post*](https://nypost.com/2025/06/27/us-news/trump-scores-major-win-in-birthright-citizenship-case-as-supreme-court-curbs-nationwide-injunctions/):
“Major win”

[Reuters](https://www.reuters.com/legal/government/us-supreme-court-may-rule-allowing-enforcement-trump-birthright-citizenship-2025-06-27/):
“Win for Trump”

[Politico](https://www.politico.com/live-updates/2025/06/27/supreme-court-rulings-decisions-today-news-analysis/supreme-court-ruling-lgbtq-lessons-mahmoud-00428003):
“Supreme Court hands Trump major win”
