---
date: '2025-06-23'
published_time: 2025-06-23 15:13:35-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/2025/06/ostp-issues-agency-guidance-for-gold-standard-science/
tags: articles
title: OSTP Issues Agency Guidance for Gold Standard Science
---
 
WASHINGTON, DC – Today, as called for in President Trump’s
recent [Executive
Order](https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/05/restoring-gold-standard-science/),
White House Office of Science and Technology Policy Director Michael
Kratsios issued guidance to federal agencies on incorporating Gold
Standard Science tenets into their research activities.  

The EO directs federal research agencies to establish and strengthen
practices related to reproducibility, transparency, falsifiability,
interdisciplinary research, and merit-based peer review, as well as
communicating uncertainties, recognizing negative or null results, and
disclosing conflicts on interests. Within 60 days, agencies are required
to report back publicly on relevant initiatives, including how Gold
Standard Science is reflected in the agency’s culture, funding
opportunities, award selection and reporting, and other research
activities.

“President Trump’s Gold Standard Science EO will transform the conduct
and management of federal science, from research design to public
communication, in order to strengthen scientific inquiry, rebuild public
trust, and ensure the U.S. continues to be the global leader in
rigorous, evidence-based science,” **said Director Kratsios. **“But
federal agencies are only one part of our nation’s research ecosystem.
American universities, scientific journals, industry and philanthropic
leaders all have a crucial role in improving the overall quality of
research, and we encourage this executive action to serve as a model for
the entire scientific enterprise.”

In the memo, Director Kratsios says that “the need for Gold Standard
Science stems from the crucial role of scientific integrity in tackling
complex challenges to address critical areas, such as energy innovation
and national security. In an age of rapid technological progress and
heightened public scrutiny, federal science, and its use in federal
decision making, must be beyond reproach.”

President Trump is ushering in the Golden Age of American Innovation and
is committed to maintaining our global technological dominance. However,
first the relationship between the public and the scientific community
must be rebuilt. President Trump’s [Restoring Gold Standard Science
Executive
Order](https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/05/restoring-gold-standard-science/) provides
a new standard and plan to improve the federal scientific enterprise.

Read the
memo [HERE.](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/03/OSTP-Guidance-for-GSS-June-2025.pdf)

\###
