---
date: '2025-06-09'
modified_time: 2025-06-09 14:06:34-04:00
published_time: 2025-06-09 14:06:33-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/2025/06/president-trump-is-stepping-up-where-democrats-wont/
tags: articles
title: "President Trump is Stepping Up Where Democrats Won\u2019t"
---
 
Radical left lunatics are taking to the streets of Los Angeles —
[attacking](https://x.com/BillMelugin_/status/1931480398824890496) law
enforcement, [hurling
projectiles](https://x.com/camhigby/status/1931898138673221890) at
police cruisers,
[burning](https://x.com/AnthonyCabassa_/status/1931871344825876809)
[vehicles](https://x.com/camhigby/status/1931868828176470394), and
[shutting
down](https://x.com/AnthonyCabassa_/status/1931845257886564433) freeways
— because the Trump Administration is removing violent criminal illegal
immigrants from their communities.

Democrats like Gavin Newsom and Karen Bass should be thanking President
Trump for stepping up and leading where they refused — and for ridding
their streets of criminal illegal immigrant killers, rapists, and
gangbangers.

**Here are some of the sick criminals taken off the streets of Los
Angeles in recent days:**

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/06/Cuong-Chanh-PHAN.jpg"
style="width:175px" decoding="async" data-fetchpriority="high"
width="374" height="499" />
</figure>

Cuong Chanh Phan, a Vietnamese national and known gang member with a
conviction for second degree murder. He was
[arrested](https://www.latimes.com/archives/la-xpm-1994-08-10-me-25495-story.html)
in 1994 after participating in a gang-affiliated cold-blooded murder of
two teenagers at a graduation party.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/06/Eswin-Uriel-CASTRO.jpg"
style="width:175px" decoding="async" width="212" height="283" />
</figure>

Eswin Uriel Castro, a Mexican national with convictions for child
molestation and being armed with a dangerous weapon and previous arrests
for robbery and domestic violence. He has been previously deported.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/06/Rolando-VENERACION-Enriquez.jpg"
style="width:175px;height:auto" decoding="async" width="194"
height="258" />
</figure>

Rolando Veneracion-Enriquez, a Filipino national with convictions for
rape, assault, burglary, and theft.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/06/Cielo-VIVAR-Ubaldo.jpg"
style="width:175px;height:auto" decoding="async" loading="lazy"
width="156" height="208" />
</figure>

Cielo Vivar-Ubaldo, Mexican national with convictions for sex with a
minor, narcotics violations, and hit-and-run. He has been previously
deported.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/06/Anastacio-Enrique-SOLIS-Salinas.jpg"
style="width:175px" decoding="async" loading="lazy" width="293"
height="391" />
</figure>

Anastacio Enrique Solis-Salinas, a Nicaraguan national with convictions
for domestic violence and hit and run, and a previous arrest for willful
cruelty to a child.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/06/Juan-Antonio-FLORES-Felician.jpg"
style="width:175px;height:auto" decoding="async" loading="lazy"
width="151" height="201" />
</figure>

Juan Antonio Flores-Felician, a Mexican national with convictions for
burglary, possession of stolen property, and receiving stolen property.
He has been previously deported.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/06/Dzhakhar-ASLAMBEKOV.jpg"
style="width:175px" decoding="async" loading="lazy" width="194"
height="258" />
</figure>

Dzhakhar Aslambekov, a Russian national recently detained for credit
card fraud in government assistance programs.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/06/Miguel-Angel-PALAFOX-Montes.jpg"
style="width:175px" decoding="async" loading="lazy" width="197"
height="261" />
</figure>

Miguel Angel Palafox-Montes, a Mexican national with convictions for
grand theft, narcotics violations, and identity theft, and previous
arrests for battery and burglary.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/06/Rafael-GAMEZ-Sanchez.jpg"
style="width:175px" decoding="async" loading="lazy" width="146"
height="195" />
</figure>

Rafael Gamez-Sanchez, a Mexican national with a conviction for vehicular
manslaughter.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/06/Arturo-DIAZ-Perez.jpg"
style="width:175px" decoding="async" loading="lazy" width="164"
height="218" />
</figure>

Arturo Diaz-Perez, a Mexican national with convictions for narcotics and
weapons violations.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/06/Felimon-ALEJO-Garcia.jpg"
style="width:175px" decoding="async" loading="lazy" width="410"
height="547" />
</figure>

Felimon Alejo-Garcia, a Mexican national with a conviction for driving
under the influence.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/06/Diego-Hernando-QUINONES-Alvarado.jpg"
style="width:175px" decoding="async" loading="lazy" width="330"
height="440" />
</figure>

Diego Hernando Quinones-Alvarado, a Colombian national with a conviction
for driving under the influence and a recent arrest for burglary.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/06/Julian-RIVEROS-Cadavid.jpg"
style="width:175px" decoding="async" loading="lazy" width="451"
height="601" />
</figure>

Julian Riveros-Cadavid, a Colombian national with previous arrests for
domestic battery, child endangerment, assault with a deadly weapon,
grand theft, and narcotics violations.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/06/Jose-Cristobal-HERNANDEZ-Buitron.jpg"
style="width:175px" decoding="async" loading="lazy" width="255"
height="340" />
</figure>

Jose Cristobal Hernandez-Buitron, a Peruvian national with a conviction
for robbery.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/06/Chrissahdah-TOOY.jpg"
style="width:175px" decoding="async" loading="lazy" width="384"
height="512" />
</figure>

Chrissahdah Tooy, an Indonesian national, with convictions for
narcotics, driving under the influence, and illegal entry.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/06/Jordan-Mauricio-MEZA-Esquibel.jpg"
style="width:175px" decoding="async" loading="lazy" width="301"
height="401" />
</figure>

Jordan Mauricio Meza-Esquibel, a Honduran national, with previous
arrests for distribution of heroin and cocaine and domestic violence.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/06/Francisco-SANCHEZ-Arguello.jpg"
style="width:175px" decoding="async" loading="lazy" width="327"
height="436" />
</figure>

Francisco Sanchez-Arguello, a Mexican national, with previous arrests
for grand theft larceny and possession of a prohibited weapon.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/06/Russell-GOMEZ-Dzul.jpg"
style="width:175px" decoding="async" loading="lazy" width="206"
height="274" />
</figure>

Russell Gomez-Dzul, a Mexican national, arrested for assaulting a
federal officer during the riots.
