---
date: '2025-06-22'
modified_time: 2025-06-22 08:53:50-04:00
published_time: 2025-06-22 08:53:49-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/2025/06/what-they-are-saying-president-trumps-display-of-peace-through-strength/
tags: articles
title: "WHAT THEY ARE SAYING: President Trump\u2019s Display of Peace Through Strength"
---
 
President Donald J. Trump’s bold, decisive action against Iran — the
world’s
[leading](https://usun.usmission.gov/fact-sheet-u-s-introduces-commonsense-resolution-to-extend-arms-embargo-on-worlds-leading-state-sponsor-of-terrorism/#:~:text=Arms%20Embargo%20on-,World%E2%80%99s%20Leading%20State%20Sponsor%20of%20Terrorism,-The%20United%20States)
state sponsor of terrorism — and its key nuclear facilities was met with
bipartisan praise from lawmakers across Capitol Hill.

**Here’s what they’re saying:**

[Speaker Mike
Johnson](https://x.com/SpeakerJohnson/status/1936602051431063760): “The
President made the right call, and did what he needed to do. Leaders in
Congress were aware of the urgency of this situation and the
Commander-in-Chief evaluated that the imminent danger outweighed the
time it would take for Congress to act. The world’s largest state
sponsor of terrorism, which chants ‘Death to America,’ simply could not
be allowed the opportunity to obtain and use nuclear weapons. The
President fully respects the Article I power of Congress, and tonight’s
necessary, limited, and targeted strike follows the history and
tradition of similar military actions under presidents of both parties.”

[Senate Majority Leader John
Thune](https://x.com/LeaderJohnThune/status/1936583185871081481): “The
regime in Iran, which has committed itself to bringing ‘death to
America’ and wiping Israel off the map, has rejected all diplomatic
pathways to peace. The mullahs’ misguided pursuit of nuclear weapons
must be stopped. As we take action tonight to ensure a nuclear weapon
remains out of reach for Iran, I stand with President Trump and pray for
the American troops and personnel in harm’s way.”

[Senate Majority Whip John
Barrasso](https://x.com/SenJohnBarrasso/status/1936579151986614286):
“President @realDonaldTrump’s decision to strike Iran’s nuclear program
is the right one. The greatest threat to the safety of the United States
and the world is Iran with a nuclear weapon. God Bless our troops”

[Senate Republican Conference Chair Tom
Cotton](https://x.com/SenTomCotton/status/1936582774858608641): “Iran
has waged a war of terror against the United States for 46 years. We
could never allow Iran to get nuclear weapons. God bless our brave
troops. President Trump made the right call and the ayatollahs should
recall his warning not to target Americans.”

[Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chair Jim
Risch](https://x.com/SenateForeign/status/1936585551622123860): “As
President Trump has said over and over again – as have I – Iran cannot
have a nuclear weapon. Why? A nuclear-armed Iran would without doubt
spark a nuclear arms race that would take off around the world. This is
a direct threat to American national security if left unchecked. This
war is Israel’s war not our war, but Israel is one of our strongest
allies and is disarming Iran for the good of the world. I’ve also always
said that Israel would not allow Iran to have a nuclear weapon. For
Israel this is existential. The Iranians literally want to wipe Israel
and all Jews off the face of the earth. This strike will put an end to
those ambitions. President Trump took decisive action today to assist
the Israelis in their efforts to stop the Iranian nuclear program. Only
American weapons could do what has been done. This has made America
safer, in addition to the Israelis, and the world more broadly. This is
not the start of a forever war. There will not be American boots on the
ground in Iran. This was a precise, limited strike, which was necessary
and by all accounts was very successful. As President Trump has stated,
now is the time for peace.”

[Sen. Jim Banks](https://x.com/SenatorBanks/status/1936591664530776238):
“I trust President Trump!”

[Sen. Marsha
Blackburn](https://x.com/MarshaBlackburn/status/1936581237193486748):
“@realDonaldTrump knows peace can only be achieved through strength.
This is a victory for the United States.”

[Sen. Katie
Britt](https://x.com/SenKatieBritt/status/1936578136742793433): “I stand
by President Trump. Strong and surgical. Please pray for peace.”

[Sen. Ted Budd](https://x.com/SenTedBuddNC/status/1936590908331282778):
“Tonight, the United States dealt a decisive blow to Iran’s nuclear
program. The U.S. military alone had the capability to destroy these
facilities deep underground, and I commend President Trump for standing
with our Israeli allies in their efforts to end the threat of a nuclear
Iran once and for all. May God bless and protect our troops, who
continue to keep us safe around the world.”

[Sen. Bill
Cassidy](https://x.com/SenBillCassidy/status/1936598091756445987):
“Iran’s nuclear program is a threat to peace and stability. Peace must
remain the goal.”

[Sen. John Cornyn](https://x.com/JohnCornyn/status/1936576284773040570):
“President Trump made the courageous and correct decision to eliminate
the Iranian nuclear threat. God Bless the USA. Thank you to our
extraordinary military and our indomitable @POTUS This is what
leadership on the world stage looks like.”

[Sen. Kevin
Cramer](https://x.com/SenKevinCramer/status/1936580724402123206): “When
only we can do what needs doing, we must do it. Great call Mr. President
and great job @usairforce ! God Bless The USA! \#PeaceThroughStrength
\#GodBlessIsrael.”

[Sen. Ted Cruz](https://x.com/SenTedCruz/status/1936584178981572791): “I
commend our pilots and servicemembers, our intelligence personnel, and
his national security staff on tonight’s successful and critical
operation. The prospect of the Iranian regime acquiring nuclear weapons
represents the most acute immediate threat to America and our allies.
When the Ayatollah chants ‘Death to America’ he means it, and the reason
he is building nuclear weapons is because he intends to use them.
President Trump has consistently and unequivocally stated that those
threats cannot be countered without dismantling the Iranian regime’s
enrichment capacity. The President and his negotiators spent two months
exploring whether the regime would agree to a negotiated settlement that
met America’s national security needs. At the end of that period,
Iranian regime officials declared that instead of agreeing to deal they
would open a new enrichment facility and install more advanced
centrifuges. After that declaration, our Israeli allies launched a
preemptive attack against the regime and its nuclear infrastructure,
which was enormously successful. It could not disable the nuclear
activities at Fordow, an underground enrichment bunker built into a
mountain which was legitimized by the Obama-era deal. As long as Iran
was able to access and enrich uranium, they could still rush to build a
nuclear arsenal. Tonight’s actions have gone far in foreclosing that
possibility, and countering the apocalyptic threat posed by an Iranian
nuclear arsenal.”

[Sen. John
Curtis](https://x.com/SenJohnCurtis/status/1936596285542592953): “Iran’s
relentless pursuit of nuclear weapons is a direct threat to American
interests, our allies, and global stability. Today’s action was a
serious and necessary response to that danger. I honor the brave
servicemembers who carried out the mission with skill and courage.
Strength paired with genuine diplomacy is how we create peace, prevent
conflict, and preserve freedom. I join the President in calling for a
return to diplomacy.”

[Sen. Steve
Daines](https://x.com/SteveDaines/status/1936591079635341434): “Thank
you President Trump and the men and women of our armed forces. America,
Israel and the rest of the world are safer tonight as a result of your
bravery, courage and unrivaled skill. Iran is the world’s largest state
sponsor of terror, has killed hundreds of U.S. service members,
attempted to assassinate President Trump, and calls the United States
‘big Satan’ and Israel ‘little Satan.’ Stopping Iran’s pursuit of
nuclear weapons is a major step toward achieving peace.”

[Sen. Joni
Ernst](https://x.com/SenJoniErnst/status/1936591704318177619): “By
leading with peace through strength, President Trump is making the world
a safer place and protecting Americans. Iran must never be able to
threaten America with a nuclear weapon. God bless our commander in chief
and our servicemembers!”

[Sen. Deb
Fischer](https://x.com/SenatorFischer/status/1936583023014695018): “For
decades, Iran has chanted ‘death to America’ and pledged to wipe Israel
off the map. When foreign adversaries pledge to destroy us, we should
believe them. President Trump has always been clear: Iran must never
obtain a nuclear weapon – and I agree. Today, his administration took
the necessary steps to keep a nuclear weapon out of Iran’s reach, and I
am grateful to the service members who successfully carried out the
mission.”

[Sen. Bill
Hagerty](https://x.com/SenatorHagerty/status/1936585240119779592):
“@POTUS’s decisive leadership enforced deadlines and redlines. This was
a tough decision, one that, as always, President Trump put the interests
of the American people first in making. May this be the end of Iran’s
nuclear weapon ambitions and lay the groundwork for lasting peace.”

[Sen. Lindsey
Graham](https://x.com/LindseyGrahamSC/status/1936575906455146590):
“Good. This was the right call. The regime deserves it. Well done,
President @realDonaldTrump To my fellow citizens: We have the best Air
Force in the world. It makes me so proud. Fly, Fight, Win.”

[Sen. Chuck
Grassley](https://x.com/ChuckGrassley/status/1936591639478157745): “Our
commander in chief & brave military forces hv carried out a mission in
Iran to prevent nuclear enrichment Iran believes in “Death to Israel
Death to America” Keeping USA safe is number 1 responsibility of Pres
Trump”

[Sen. John
Fetterman](https://x.com/SenFettermanPA/status/1936577707589935552): “As
I’ve long maintained, this was the correct move by @POTUS. Iran is the
world’s leading sponsor of terrorism and cannot have nuclear
capabilities. I’m grateful for and salute the finest military in the
world.”

[Sen. James
Lankford](https://x.com/SenatorLankford/status/1936587908518978039): “I
continue to be grateful for the skill and professionalism of our United
States service members. Cindy and I are praying for our military, the
President and for a lasting peace.”

[Sen. Mike Lee](https://x.com/SenMikeLee/status/1936597371044954486):
“Tonight, the Iranian nuclear program was wiped out. Please join me in
praying for the safety of the brave men and women of America’s armed
forces in the Middle East and around the world, and that these strikes
may lead to the lasting peace called for by President Trump.”

[Sen. Roger
Marshall](https://x.com/RogerMarshallMD/status/1936591179078086896):
“Thank you to our brave American Air Force and their successful mission
as no Americans were harmed. We stand tall with President Trump who is
protecting the world from a nuclear capable Iran.”

[Sen. Dave
McCormick](https://x.com/SenMcCormickPA/status/1936588099892510978): “As
I have said all along, Iran must not have a nuclear weapon. This
targeted attack on Iran’s nuclear facilities is the result of the
Iranian regime’s failure to make a deal despite months of President
Trump’s good faith efforts to negotiate. I applaud President Trump’s
strong leadership and his continued commitment to peace through
strength. Once again, America’s detractors around the world should know
President Trump means what he says. And I am so grateful for America’s
brave warriors, who appear to have achieved their mission successfully
and are returning home safely. I look forward to being briefed along
with my Senate colleagues on this action.  This is an important step
toward ensuring that the world’s largest state sponsor of terror never
obtains a nuclear weapon.”

[Sen. Ashley
Moody](https://x.com/SenAshleyMoody/status/1936582382217580856): “This
is a solemn and important moment for security and peace. We stand with
and pray for our President, the service members who carried out this
mission, and the people affected by this conflict.”

[Sen. Markwayne
Mullin](https://x.com/SenMullin/status/1936585575730979149): “To those
concerned about U.S. involvement— this isn’t a “forever war” in fact,
it’s ending one. @POTUS was clear: Iran must never have a nuclear
weapon. The Republican-led @SenateGOP trusts President Trump to keep
America safe, free, and prosperous. Peace through strength.”

[Sen. Pete
Ricketts](https://x.com/SenatorRicketts/status/1936587365528555622):
“President Trump gave Iran ample time to come to the negotiating table
on its nuclear program. Tonight’s strikes mean Iran is further from
possessing a nuclear weapon. I’m thankful for the heroes who carried out
this strike and for our service members in the Middle East and around
the world.”

[Sen. Rick
Scott](https://x.com/SenRickScott/status/1936577997231845479): “Thank
you, @POTUS, @SecDef, and our brave American warriors for a successful
strike on three Iranian nuclear sites. This is what peace through
strength looks like. The United States and the world are a safer place
without Iran possessing a nuclear weapon.”

[Sen. Tim
Scott](https://x.com/SenatorTimScott/status/1936579993082974626):
“Decisive American leadership. Americans and the world can thank
President Trump for his courage to lead.”

[Sen. Tim Sheehy](https://x.com/TimSheehyMT/status/1936580430750220294):
“The right decision. Iran had every opportunity to give up their nukes.
To the naysayers out there, this isn’t starting a war, this is ending
one. Iran has been at war with America for 46 years. The Iranian people
should rise up and put an end to this murderous regime.”

[Sen. Dan
Sullivan](https://x.com/SenDanSullivan/status/1936588328591122769):
“President Trump meant what he said—Iran will never get a nuclear bomb.
I commend @POTUS and his national security team for making this
important but difficult decision and our brave military members for
carrying it out. The terrorist leaders of Iran have, in essence, been at
war with the United States for decades—targeting, wounding and killing
thousands of American service members for years. Making sure the world’s
largest state sponsor of terrorism never gets a nuclear weapon is part
of the work of reestablishing deterrence against Iran, which was lost
during the appeasement of the Biden Administration. This is difficult
work, but critical for our national security. I fully support the
President and his national security team in these critical efforts.”

[Sen. Thom
Tillis](https://x.com/SenThomTillis/status/1936582032483561912): “This
was the right decision by @POTUS: we cannot allow Iran to build nuclear
weapons. God Bless our brave servicemembers who supported and executed
this mission.”

[Sen. Tommy
Tuberville](https://x.com/SenTuberville/status/1936579605252518289):
“God bless our Troops. God bless President Trump. And may God continue
to bless the United States of America.”

[Sen. Roger
Wicker](https://x.com/SenatorWicker/status/1936580843276841289): “Our
commander-in-chief has made a deliberate —and correct— decision to
eliminate the existential threat posed by the Iranian regime. We now
have very serious choices ahead to provide security for our citizens and
our allies and stability for the middle-east. Well-done to our military
personnel. You’re the best!”

[Sen. Todd
Young](https://x.com/SenToddYoung/status/1936588783446532422): “Thank
you to our brave service members who executed this mission. The world
will be safer if Iran’s nuclear capability is destroyed. I look forward
to briefings in the coming days.”

[House Majority Whip Tom
Emmer](https://x.com/GOPMajorityWhip/status/1936579490387288186): “A
nuclear Iran posed a threat to the Middle East and to the world. @POTUS
has been consistent that this dangerous regime should NEVER possess a
nuclear weapon. He was right then, and he is right today: NOW IS THE
TIME FOR PEACE.”

[House Republican Conference Chair Lisa
McClain](https://x.com/RepLisaMcClain/status/1936584314960896018):
“President Trump is delivering PEACE THROUGH STRENGTH. Today’s
successful mission destroyed Iran’s nuclear capabilities, protected
American lives, and will make the world safer. Now, it’s time for
peace.  God bless America and our warfighters!”

[Rep. Robert
Aderholt](https://x.com/Robert_Aderholt/status/1936584673611923573): “I
fully support President Trump’s decision to take out Iran’s nuclear
facilities. As I have said, I believe that if Iran gets a functioning
nuclear weapon they would not hesitate to use it against Israel or the
United States. When they say death to Israel and death to America, we
have no reason not to believe them. I pray this action has made the
world safer. President Trump has pledged to get us out of “forever
wars.” This could be a step toward ending the war we have been in with
Iran since 1979. They have killed hundreds and hundreds of Americans in
the past half century.”

[Rep. Mark
Alford](https://x.com/RepMarkAlford/status/1936575533183074679): “PEACE
THROUGH STRENGTH REQUIRES STRENGTH We strongly support President Trump’s
targeted strikes against Iranian nuclear facilities. The Ayatollah must
never be allowed to obtain a nuclear weapon and we will always stand
with Israel.”

[Rep. Don Bacon](https://x.com/RepDonBacon/status/1936578846842921282):
“Iran with a nuclear weapon is an existential threat. Pres. Trump is
protecting America.”

[Rep. Troy
Balderson](https://x.com/RepBalderson/status/1936584068927500303):
“Thank you @realDonaldTrump for taking decisive action. The world is a
whole lot safer tonight.”

[Rep. Michael
Baumgartner](https://x.com/RepBaumgartner/status/1936591723830050989):
“There is no greater threat to the world than nuclear proliferation, let
alone from a regime that has consistently used radical Islamic
terrorists to attack and kill Americans for nearly 4 decades. I fully
support President Trump’s decision to bomb Iran’s nuke reactor. Trump
gave Iran a choice. The Ayatollah chose poorly.”

[Rep. Andy Barr](https://x.com/RepAndyBarr/status/1936586441158529432):
“God Bless Donald J. Trump, God Bless our military, and God Bless the
United States of America! America thanks you, @realdonaldtrump! The
world thanks you too.”

[Rep. Tom
Barrett](https://x.com/RepTomBarrett/status/1936596365624348908): “I
anticipate a full briefing of our military strike in Iran immediately
upon my return to Washington. Tonight, I am praying for wisdom in our
decisions, President Trump and his team, and the safety of our troops.
God bless the United States of America.” 

[Rep. Aarron
Bean](https://x.com/RepAaronBean/status/1936596686358335711): “The rogue
Iranian regime has murdered American soldiers and been the world’s
leading sponsor of terrorism for decades. Peace through strength is a
strategy that works. God bless our brave American troops and God bless
the USA!”

[Rep. Mike Bost](https://x.com/RepBost/status/1936602393656881221): “I
trust that President Trump made the decision to target Iran’s nuclear
program tonight due to intelligence that indicates the regime was within
reach of developing nuclear weapons that could threaten the lives of
American citizens and U.S. troops stationed across the globe. He showed
the strength to ensure that never happens.”

[Rep. Ken Calvert](https://x.com/KenCalvert/status/1936598825772490782):
“Like President Trump, I have consistently said Iran cannot be allowed
to obtain a nuclear weapon. I support his decision to use the force and
precision of the U.S. military in coordination with our ally Israel to
uphold this redline with tonight’s targeted strike.”

[Rep. Buddy
Carter](https://x.com/RepBuddyCarter/status/1936584654133350472): “I
support President Trump. Peace through strength!  Thank you to the brave
troops who defended us and our ally, Israel.”

[Rep. Mike
Collins](https://x.com/RepMikeCollins/status/1936574530752831885):
“Peace through strength. Thank God we have President Trump as Commander
in Chief.”

[Rep. Jeff
Crank](https://x.com/RepJeffCrank/status/1936594907956740216): “Tonight,
President Trump took decisive action to stop Iran from obtaining a
nuclear weapon, protect Americans and build peace in the Middle East. 
Congratulations to the Department of Defense on a successful mission.”

[Rep. Rick
Crawford](https://x.com/RepRickCrawford/status/1936579159980933177): “As
I have said multiple times recently, I regret that Iran has brought the
world to this point. That said, I am thankful President Trump understood
that the red line—articulated by Presidents of both parties for
decades—was real. The United States and our allies, including Israel,
are making it clear that the world would never accept Iran’s development
of a nuclear weapon. I have been in touch with the White House before
this action and will continue to track developments closely with them in
the coming days. I commend President Trump for taking decisive action
and I am grateful to the U.S. servicemembers who carried out these
precise and successful strikes. I continue to pray for the safety of the
forces engaged to protect the free world.”

[Rep. Dan
Crenshaw](https://x.com/DanCrenshawTX/status/1936578732069667022):
“Support President Trump. You think these decisions were easy? They
weren’t. You think this means WW3? You’re wrong. You think it means
American soldiers deploying to Iran? You’re wrong. You think it means
long term stability in the Middle East and a safer future for Americans?
You’re right. Because the regime that wanted ‘Death to the Great Satan’
is at its end.  Support the President.”

[Rep. Scott
DesJarlais](https://x.com/DesJarlaisTN04/status/1936591305519542606): “I
stand with President Trump’s decision to take out the last of Iran’s
nuclear sites and his call for peace. My full statement & the DOJ
indictment on Iran’s attempt to assassinate Trump.”

[Rep. Mario
Diaz-Balart](https://x.com/MarioDB/status/1936585907525558375): “I stand
with our Commander-in-Chief President @realDonaldTrump in making sure
the terrorist regime in Iran never gets a nuclear weapon. Proud of our
exceptional military and proud to stand by our ally Israel.”

[Rep. Neal
Dunn](https://x.com/DrNealDunnFL2/status/1936603772190392685): “Iran’s
nuclear ambitions are a threat not just to Israel but also to all our
allies and the entire free world. The Ayatollah’s regime forced the
President’s hand. It was imperative that President Trump act decisively
to eliminate that existential threat. Prayers for the Iranian people and
peace in the Middle East.”

[Rep. Gabe
Evans](https://x.com/repgabeevans/status/1936598282060644716): “I’m glad
to see @POTUS take action to prevent Iran from acquiring a nuclear
weapon. As a veteran of a Global War on Terror, I know we achieve peace
through strength. Prayers and thanks to our brave men and women who
carried out this necessary operation.”

[Rep. Pat
Fallon](https://x.com/RepPatFallon/status/1936587482931339473):
“President Trump today made the tough, but absolutely correct decision
in the best interest of America’s national security to order strikes on
Iran’s nuclear sites. Let me be clear — Iran cannot possess nuclear
weapons under any circumstances. Thank you to our brave servicemembers
for getting the job done.”

[Rep. Brian
Fitzpatrick](https://x.com/RepBrianFitz/status/1936583527086354938):
“Tonight, the United States executed a successful strike on Iran’s
nuclear sites at Fordow, Natanz, and Esfahan. All our aircraft are
safely out of Iranian airspace and headed home. This was the right
call—and a necessary one. Make no mistake: a nuclear Iran is an
existential threat—not just to Israel, but to the entire free world.
Peace through strength is how we lead. And tonight, the greatest
military on Earth delivered —for America, for our allies, and for the
cause of global security. God bless our Troops. God bless America. And
God Bless the enduring cause of liberty, now and forever.”

[Rep. Chuck
Fleischmann](https://x.com/RepChuck/status/1936575461917675945):
“President Trump is showing strong leadership that will protect America
and the entire world by ensuring Iran never acquires a nuclear weapon.
Iran is the world’s largest state-sponsor of terrorism, responsible for
the murder of thousands globally. The Iranian regime must NEVER have
access to nuclear weapons. I applaud President Trump for his steadfast
leadership as our Commander in Chief and our outstanding Armed Forces
for their successful mission.”

[Rep. Mike
Flood](https://x.com/USRepMikeFlood/status/1936600956365377985):
“Tonight, President Trump took bold steps to ensure that Iran never
obtains a nuclear weapon. Keeping Iran from becoming a nuclear power
will not only help keep America safe but can provide peace and stability
around the world.  Thank you to our brave service members who skillfully
carried out this mission.”

[Rep. Vince
Fong](https://x.com/RepVinceFong/status/1936588759040250145): “President
Trump’s decisive action to eliminate the nuclear capabilities posed by
the Iranian regime was a necessary one to prevent a real and
catastrophic threat. Iran can NEVER be allowed to have a nuclear weapon.
We’re grateful for the bravery of the @usairforce and all our military
personnel. May God protect them and all Americans in harm’s way as we
continue the necessary work to preserve peace and stability.”

[Rep. Russell
Fry](https://x.com/RepRussellFry/status/1936585597272920402): “I stand
with President Trump—Iran CANNOT have a nuclear weapon. Peace through
strength.”

[Rep. Brandon
Gill](https://x.com/RepBrandonGill/status/1936578572719739029): “’Peace
through strength’ means ensuring our existential enemies don’t acquire
the most lethal and catastrophic weapons known to man.”

[Rep. Carlos
Gimenez](https://x.com/RepCarlos/status/1936577124174844315): “God bless
America! God bless the Jewish State of Israel! God bless President
Donald J. Trump! The people of \#Iran will soon taste freedom again,
Israel will be at peace, & democracy will be safe from this radical
Islamist terrorist regime!”

[Rep. Lance
Gooden](https://x.com/Lancegooden/status/1936575777874796724): “PEACE
THROUGH STRENGTH! Thank you, Mr. President, and our great military! And
thanks, especially, to God, for our pilots’ safe return.”

[Rep. Mark
Green](https://x.com/RepMarkGreen/status/1936585842161852468): “The
United States has given Tehran every opportunity to forgo its nuclear
ambitions; it has repeatedly refused. President Trump made the right
decision. A nuclear armed Iran would be detrimental to the existence of
our ally Israel, the stability of the Middle East, and our own national
security.”

[Rep. Abe
Hamadeh](https://x.com/AbrahamHamadeh/status/1936594468171591892): “Iran
has limited internet access. The news of Trump’s successful military
operation should be spread far and wide in Iran, DROP LEAFLETS. The
Iranian people need to know how weak the regime truly is, and now is
their time to chart their own destiny if they choose.”

[Rep. Mike Haridopolos](https://x.com/RepHaridopolos): “I support the
actions taken by President Trump to end Iran’s nuclear ambitions. The
world is a much safer place due to his actions taken today.”

[Rep. Pat
Harrigan](https://x.com/RepPatHarrigan/status/1936592298562797988):
“President Trump gave Iran a diplomatic off-ramp—60 days to deescalate
and come to the table. They kept enriching uranium, kept making threats,
and ignored every warning, including the one not to target Americans. We
tried peace through strength. With American lives at risk, I support
@POTUS’s actions to advance peace in the Middle East.”

[Rep. Andy
Harris](https://x.com/RepAndyHarrisMD/status/1936576568551150074): “A
nuclear-armed Iran endangers America, Israel, and the entire free world.
The U.S. took decisive action to destroy Iran’s nuclear capability,
protecting American lives, our allies, and global stability. This is
peace through strength.

[Rep. Mark
Harris](https://x.com/RepMarkHarrisNC/status/1936576436413890681): “I am
grateful for President Trump’s thoughtful and wise approach that has
gone into the decision and action which has been carried out this
evening in a determined approach to make certain Iran does not have a
nuclear weapon!! Pray for our nation’s military, the most powerful
courageous fighting force in the world!!”

[Rep. Diana
Harshbarger](https://x.com/RepHarshbarger/status/1936587807398699042):
“President Trump has tried over and over again to come to a peaceful
agreement with Iran, but they have refused to work with us. While I
believe war should never be an option, I am proud of President Trump and
our military on a successful operation to deter the spread of war in the
Middle East.”

[Rep. Ashley
Hinson](https://x.com/RepAshleyHinson/status/1936580888449384631):
“Thanks to President Trump’s decisive leadership, our military carried
out successful strikes on Iran’s nuclear sites tonight. Iran is the
largest state sponsor of terrorism & President Trump made it clear: Iran
can never have a path to a nuclear weapon. Now they won’t. Thank you to
our brave warriors who carried out these attacks & are now on their way
back safely home. God Bless President Trump and the USA.”

[Rep. Richard
Hudson](https://x.com/RepRichHudson/status/1936598781694189989):
“President Donald Trump has been consistent and resolute that Iran- the
world’s leading sponsor of terrorism- will not be allowed to build a
nuclear weapons capability. He negotiated in good faith and offered Iran
peace in exchange for ending their nuclear ambition. Iran did not take
President Trump seriously and they have learned tonight that was a
mistake. It would be another mistake for Iran to retaliate against
Americans anywhere in the world. I support President Trump, I stand with
Israel and I pray for the safety of our brave men and women in uniform
around the world. America leads with resolve, and the world is safer
when we do.”

[Rep. Bill
Huizenga](https://x.com/RepHuizenga/status/1936584318047879296): “After
attempting to negotiate peace through diplomacy, President Trump took
decisive action. We must ensure that Iran does not obtain a nuclear
weapon and usher in a new age of nuclear terrorism. I commend the men
and women of our Armed Forces for their performance in this operation to
make the world a safer place. It is now time for Iran to come to the
table and abandon its nuclear ambitions.”

[Rep. Wesley
Hunt](https://x.com/WesleyHuntTX/status/1936584801538207830): “When
faced with a clear choice between peace and violence, Iran chose
violence. That was a grave mistake. Underestimating the resolve of the
United States, the leadership of President Trump, and the unmatched
strength of the most advanced military force on Earth is not just
unwise, it’s fatal. I commend our Commander-in-Chief for acting
decisively to dismantle Iran’s nuclear ambitions at the source. This was
not just a mission of military precision, it was a message: the United
States will not tolerate threats to our national security or to global
stability. To the brave men and women of our Armed Forces who carried
out this operation with courage and excellence, thank you. The nation
stands in awe of your service.”

[Rep. Jeff Hurd](https://x.com/RepJeffHurd/status/1936584970044391534):
“Iran cannot be allowed to possess nuclear capabilities. We must always
stand up for the safety and security of the U.S. and its allies. I fully
support actions taken to prevent an evil regime from being able to harm
us, Israel, and our other allies.”

[Rep. Darrell
Issa](https://x.com/repdarrellissa/status/1936587968308781501):
“Tonight, @realDonaldTrump is showing the world the true meaning of
peace through strength. And American strength is making peace with Iran
possible for the first time in 46 years.”

[Rep. Brian
Jack](https://x.com/RepBrianJack/status/1936594008941142268): “I stand
with our brave military stationed across the world and President Trump,
our Commander in Chief.”

[Rep. Ronny
Jackson](https://x.com/RonnyJacksonTX/status/1936592652276772876):
“President Trump once again demonstrated the bold, decisive leadership
the American people elected him for. He has long maintained that Iran
must NEVER obtain a nuclear weapon and he kept that promise. A nuclear
Iran is a direct threat to America and our allies. Tonight, the world is
safer because OUR COMMANDER IN CHIEF, PRESIDENT TRUMP acted. Thank you
President Trump and the servicemembers who carried out the strike. GOD
BLESS THE USA!!!”

[Rep. Jim Jordan](https://x.com/Jim_Jordan/status/1936583311758868946):
“God Bless the United States Military. God Bless President Trump.”

[Rep. Tom
Kean](https://x.com/CongressmanKean/status/1936598192625189070): “The
world is a far safer place without Iranian nuclear sites. Thank you to
President Trump and our second-to-none American military for carrying
out this successful series of strikes. It is time for security and peace
for all.”

[Rep. Jen
Kiggans](https://x.com/RepJenKiggans/status/1936591761943482542): “The
American military remains the greatest in the world … God bless our
troops. I support President Trump’s decision to bomb the three sites in
Iran because Iran cannot have nuclear weapons. Iran should heed the
president’s warning to not retaliate against U.S. forces or U.S.
citizens anywhere in the world. Peace through strength remains our
goal.”

[Rep. Young Kim](https://x.com/RepYoungKim/status/1936602405321494629):
“The military’s targeted actions tonight against Iranian nuclear sites
are necessary to deter Tehran’s nuclear ambitions and save lives. I
thank our military for their service in this critical operation to
restore peace through strength and am glad they are safely on the way
home. I look forward to additional briefings from the administration
soon.”

[Rep. David
Kustoff](https://x.com/RepDavidKustoff/status/1936579595249053761):
“Thank you, @realDonaldTrump, for demonstrating strong leadership on the
World stage. Iran should never have a nuclear weapon. This is peace
through strength!”

[Rep. Darin LaHood](https://x.com/RepLaHood/status/1936585180157812875):
“@POTUS and the United States have been clear: under no circumstances
can Iran be allowed to develop a nuclear weapon. I thank our brave
service members, Intelligence Community, and the Administration’s
national security team for holding this red line to protect U.S.
national security.”

[Rep. Nick LaLota](https://x.com/RepLaLota/status/1936585394604159408):
“Tonight’s American response makes it clear: Iran will be held
accountable for its proxies killing Americans and its blatant ambition
to bring death to America through nuclear weapons. Tehran must return to
the table, abandon its nuclear ambitions, and choose peace. Praying for
our brave troops and American citizens in the region.”

[Rep. Doug
LaMalfa](https://x.com/RepLaMalfa/status/1936588341933211740): “The
President’s decision to carry out a targeted strike on Iranian nuclear
sites was the right move. It was necessary, and sent a clear message. No
other country has the capability to take out this type of threat. I
support President Trump’s decision to take action before it was too
late. Iran’s leaders chant “Death to America” and “Death to Israel” as
official policy and they mean it. They’ve made it clear that if they
ever got their hands on a nuclear weapon, they’d use it on America and
Israel. We could not leave major Iranian nuclear sites operational and
intact.  I hope Iran will take the President’s offer now. They’ve had
many chances to give up their weapons ambitions.”

[Rep. Nick
Langworthy](https://x.com/RepLangworthy/status/1936588251227197817):
“God bless the United States of America and the brave men and women in
uniform who sacrifice so much to protect our freedoms and do the
extraordinary every day. We pray for their safety, and we pray for
wisdom and strength for our Commander in Chief.”

[Rep. Bob Latta](https://x.com/boblatta/status/1936599410903003510):
“Iran, the world’s leading state sponsor of terrorism, must never be
allowed to obtain a nuclear weapon. The president took decisive action
to stop Iran’s nuclear program. Now is the time for peace. God bless and
protect our troops.”

[Rep. Mike Lawler](https://x.com/lawler4ny/status/1936596452765000148):
“President Trump made the right decision — and like when President Obama
struck Libya, Syria, Pakistan, and Yemen — he did so under the terms of
the 2001 and 2002 AUMF. War has not been declared, however, a Nuclear
Iran has been prevented. I fully support the President’s decision.”

[Rep. Barry
Loudermilk](https://x.com/RepLoudermilk/status/1936590316980867253):
“Thanks to this bold and decisive action by President Trump, and our
amazing military, America and the rest of the world are much safer.
Putting America first means prioritizing the safety and security of the
United States; and Iran has been a serious threat to the U.S. and our
ally, Israel, for decades. President Trump exercised incredible
restraint while seeking diplomatic solutions with Iran these past few
months; unfortunately, Iran was unwilling to cooperate.”

[Rep. Anna Paulina
Luna](https://x.com/RepLuna/status/1936598314994053602): “May God
protect our brave service members until they return home safely, along
with our foreign service officers and the dedicated men and women of the
State Department. Pray for our country. We need peace.”

[Rep. Nicole
Malliotakis](https://x.com/NMalliotakis/status/1936599422617698754):
“There’s no other military in the world that can do what was just done.
God bless America and our brave service members.”

[Rep. Tracey Mann](https://x.com/RepMann/status/1936597001627447343):
“Audrey and I join the nation in praying for the safety of our troops
and civilians in the Middle East. We pray for wisdom for President Trump
and his team as they promote American peace through strength. God bless
our troops.”

[Rep. Rich
McCormick](https://x.com/RepMcCormick/status/1936590380197143019):
“President Trump gave Iran every opportunity to give up its nuclear
ambitions. They are now very aware that this President will not be
dropping pallets of cash to bribe them to stop developing nukes, we will
be delivering ordinances that ensures they do.”

[Rep. Addison McDowell](https://x.com/RepMcDowell): “President Trump
protects America and our interests: A nuclear Iran was never an option.
God bless America and the brave men and women who serve our nation.”

[Rep. Carol
Miller](https://x.com/RepCarolMiller/status/1936598722042888555): “Iran
was persistent in their refusal to stop enriching uranium. We gave them
every opportunity to stop and agree to nuclear disarmament. They
refused, so America ended their nuclear weapons program tonight. The
Commander in Chief has my full support.”

[Rep. Mary
Miller](https://x.com/RepMaryMiller/status/1936584354249036194): “A
great victory for the United States! President Trump understands that
PEACE THROUGH STRENGTH keeps America, and the world, safe and secure.”

[Rep. Max
Miller](https://x.com/RepMaxMiller/status/1936580646140588178): “As
President Trump has stated before, Iran will not have a nuclear weapon.
Promises made, promises kept”

[Rep. Mariannette
Miller-Meeks](https://x.com/RepMMM/status/1936596965242089490): “Under
the constitutional authority granted to the president as
Commander-in-Chief under Article II, @POTUS took decisive action tonight
to keep America, our allies and the world, safe. His bold leadership and
commitment to peace through strength delivered results. Our military
successfully struck Iran’s nuclear sites, sending a clear message: the
world’s top sponsor of terrorism will never obtain a nuclear weapon. 
Proud of our warriors and our President.”

[Rep. John
Moolenaar](https://x.com/RepMoolenaar/status/1936600177437192542):
“President Trump has been consistent. A nuclear Iran poses a grave
threat to our nation, our military, and our allies. His decision to
strike Iran is necessary to keep us and our allies safe, and ensure the
largest sponsor of terror in the world does not develop nuclear
weapons.”

[Rep. Barry
Moore](https://x.com/RepBarryMoore/status/1936591845863158168): “I stand
with President Trump. God bless him and our brave service members.”

[Rep. Tim
Moore](https://x.com/RepTimMooreNC/status/1936591300154806726): “Iran’s
radical regime is a threat to freedom everywhere and has spent decades
spreading terror across the globe. President Trump made clear that any
attack on Americans or our allies would be met with overwhelming force.
May God bless and protect our troops as we confront the evil of Iran and
its terrorist proxies.”

[Rep. Nathaniel
Moran](https://x.com/RepNateMoran/status/1936586354759999664): “Peace
through strength in action. This was a necessary step to protect America
and its ally Israel from the clear and present danger presented by Iran
and its advanced nuclear program. This is the kind of leadership the
moment demands. @POTUS”

[Rep. Troy
Nehls](https://x.com/RepTroyNehls/status/1936576746393915583): “Iran
cannot have a nuclear weapon. I’m glad the mission was successful, and
I’m glad we have President Trump in the White House. Peace through
strength.”

[Rep. Ralph
Norman](https://x.com/RepRalphNorman/status/1936583429706883314):
“President Trump’s bold leadership didn’t just defend democracy around
the world — it helped save it. God bless the USA”

[Rep. Zach Nunn](https://x.com/ZachNunn/status/1936587144417464597): “As
President Trump takes decisive action to eliminate Iran’s nuclear
threat, I also remain committed to ensuring our troops—including Iowa’s
Guardsmen deploying to the region—are protected and not engaged in a
forever war. America remains a strong force for Peace through Strength.”

[Rep. Andy Ogles](https://x.com/RepOgles/status/1936573616268751133):
“We must end Iran’s nuclear ambitions and protect American lives. Praise
God for a successful mission—keep praying for our country.”

[Rep. Burgess
Owens](https://x.com/RepBurgessOwens/status/1936583148961489259): “We
have a peace through strength President who doesn’t bluff and knows the
world is safer without a nuclear Iran. God bless our U.S. Armed Forces”

[Rep. August
Pfluger](https://x.com/RepPfluger/status/1936597505895964998): “Today,
American airmen executed an operation at the direction of President
Trump to eliminate Iranian nuclear facilities. I commend President
Trump, the national security team, and the men and women who executed
these orders on this successful mission. The Iranian regime is the
largest sponsor of terrorism and the choice is now theirs… I hope they
choose peace and a return to normalized society. But one thing is clear,
they will not have a nuclear weapon.”

[Rep. Guy
Reschenthaler](https://x.com/GReschenthaler/status/1936589413821125028):
“President Trump was right to strike Iran’s nuclear program. A nuclear
Iran was a direct threat to our national security and our allies in the
region. Iran is responsible for the deaths of hundreds if not thousands
of our servicemembers. May God bless our nation and our troops.”

[Rep. John
Rose](https://x.com/JohnRoseforTN/status/1936593410120667181): “Our
brave troops executed a well-planned and successful strike in Iran that
signals a new chapter in the Middle East, a chapter where there is no
misunderstanding about American tolerance of a nuclear-armed Iran.
@POTUS is leading with strength, and I fully support this action.”

[Rep. David
Rouzer](https://x.com/RepDavidRouzer/status/1936593348753604969): “I
commend President Trump for taking decisive and resolute action to
destroy Iran’s nuclear capabilities. Regardless of any Iranian response
which may occur, the President and those in our great military
responsible for successfully carrying out this difficult mission have
provided a meaningful opportunity for lasting peace in the Middle East
and safety to the United States and our allies.”

[Rep. Maria
Salazar](https://x.com/MaElviraSalazar/status/1936576606484811977):
“Thank you, President Trump, for leading with strength and clarity. Iran
must never be allowed to obtain nuclear weapons. May God protect our
troops, and may peace prevail through strength.”

[Rep. Austin
Scott](https://x.com/AustinScottGA08/status/1936601581358617075): “I
commend the President for his decisive action to attack Iran’s nuclear
program. I also commend the bravery and skill of our warfighters who
participated in this important mission. There was no scenario in which
Iran could be allowed to continue their nuclear weapons program. The
time is now for the Iranian people to rise up against the radical
regime.”

[Rep. Keith
Self](https://x.com/RepKeithSelf/status/1936581983448010905): “This is
what leadership from a Commander in Chief looks like.”

[Rep. Adrian
Smith](https://x.com/RepAdrianSmith/status/1936592982729203791):
“Through months of talks between negotiators from his administration and
Iranian officials, President Trump has shown he is committed to
achieving peace for the United States and our allies. Today, he and
brave American servicemembers acted decisively when it became clear the
Iranian regime, which openly threatened to wield nuclear weapons, was
not open to diplomatic engagement. America stands with the friends of
freedom, and our forces will defend our people against all threats.”

[Rep. Pete
Stauber](https://x.com/RepPeteStauber/status/1936581896072204338): “Iran
has been wanting to eliminate the United States and Israel for decades.
President Trump’s decision to surgically remove this threat was decisive
leadership with the power of our extraordinary military force! This is
peace through strength.”

[Rep. Greg
Steube](https://x.com/RepGregSteube/status/1936583192644886804):
“President Trump made every effort to give Iran a peaceful off-ramp to
dismantle its nuclear ambitions. The Ayatollah’s refusal to negotiate in
good faith confirms what we’ve long known: Iran cannot be trusted with
nuclear weapons. I’m deeply grateful to our brave men and women in
uniform for executing their mission with courage and precision. And I
thank President Trump for his decisive leadership during this critical
moment.”

[Rep. Dale
Strong](https://x.com/RepDaleStrong/status/1936589866415935632): “A
nuclear-armed Iran is a threat to the entire world. They had ample time
to come to the table and make a deal, but forced President Trump to take
action to ensure the safety of our country and our allies.”

[Rep. Marlin
Stutzman](https://x.com/RepStutzman/status/1936589716910231986): “Peace
through strength means you have to be willing to prove your strength
when adversaries will not accept the peaceful option. I support
President Trump’s decision and am thankful the strikes were successful.
God Bless America!”

[Rep. Claudia
Tenney](https://x.com/RepTenney/status/1936581876442890561): “President
Trump has shown unwavering resolve in defending the U.S. & the free
world. We are grateful for the bravery of our servicemembers who carried
out these successful airstrikes & for President Trump’s leadership as
our Commander in Chief!  God Bless America”

[Rep. William
Timmons](https://x.com/RepTimmons/status/1936585984302592251):
“President Trump took decisive action against Iran’s nuclear threat.
This sends a clear message: the U.S. will defend our interests and our
allies. Grateful our Airmen carried out the mission safely — their
courage keeps us safe. FLY FIGHT WIN”

[Rep. Derrick Van
Orden](https://x.com/derrickvanorden/status/1936584446955647150): “Peace
Through Strength. The terrorist regime in Iran’s time in the sun is
over.”

[Rep. Tim Walberg](https://x.com/RepWalberg/status/1936591264872333749):
“Tonight, President @realDonaldTrump displayed decisive action to
eliminate the nuclear program of the world’s largest state sponsor of
terrorism. President Trump pursued and exhausted diplomatic options, and
to protect the security of our nation, this moment called for strong
leadership. God bless America and God bless our troops.”

[Rep. Ann
Wagner](https://x.com/RepAnnWagner/status/1936598761448337749): “Iran
was given every chance to get rid of its nuclear program, but instead of
choosing peace the Ayatollah embraced violence and chaos. President
Trump was absolutely right to send our bombers in and strike the Fordow,
Natanz, and Esfahan nuclear facilities, and this decision will save
American lives and protect our national security. He and I are in full
agreement that we must achieve peace through strength, and today’s
decisive strikes are a testament to that shared commitment. Iran cannot
and will not have nuclear weapons and today is a direct result of the
Ayatollah’s reckless choices…”

[Rep. Randy Weber](https://x.com/TXRandy14/status/1936575942211608788):
“Iran should NEVER have their hands on a nuclear weapon. President Trump
ensured that won’t happen. Congratulations on a successful mission.”

[Rep. Roger
Williams](https://x.com/RepRWilliams/status/1936590274605576402): “We
must always stand with Israel.  Iran should never have a nuclear weapon
and I’m thankful that under @realDonaldTrump, our country is stronger
than ever.  God bless our military.  We pray for their safety and for
peace.”

[Rep. Joe
Wilson](https://x.com/RepJoeWilson/status/1936587161748299998):
“President Trump has been consistent in his willingness to engage in
negotiations. Enemies of America insult this effort instead pursuing
apocalyptic delusions. Ultimately, Peace is achieved through deterrence
and Strength. Assad was warned in 2017. The Iranian regime was warned.
War criminal Putin has been warned. President Trump will not hesitate to
act when tested.”

[Rep. Rob Wittman](https://x.com/RobWittman/status/1936600566882324719):
“The President was right – Iran refused to commit to nuclear
disarmament. This was the right decision. America must secure peace
through strength. God bless our servicemen and women in uniform – I am
praying for their safe return.”

[Rep. Steve
Womack](https://x.com/rep_stevewomack/status/1936586956588150817): “I
support the President’s decisive action to thwart Iran from completing a
nuclear weapon. Our Israeli allies were instrumental in setting the
conditions for these strikes, and President Trump’s decision ultimately
makes America and our allies safer. I thank God for the bravery and
safety of our servicemembers who made this mission a success.”

[Rep. Rudy
Yakym](https://x.com/RepRudyYakym/status/1936597003250635171): “Thank
you to our brave warfighters for defending the greatest nation on earth.
God bless our troops and the United States of America!”

[Rep. Ryan
Zinke](https://x.com/RepRyanZinke/status/1936598828049678844): “We gave
Iran a chance, they didn’t take it. The President has been crystal
clear: Iran must not have nuclear weapons. If they don’t give up their
nuclear program, this will continue to escalate. They will lose their
Army, Navy, what’s left of their Air Force AND they will lose their
refineries. This is a fight they will not win. I pray for the freedom
loving Iranian people who have lived under extremism for too long.”
