---
date: '2025-06-06'
published_time: 2025-06-06 18:59:40-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/2025/06/mythbuster-theres-no-pork-in-the-one-big-beautiful-bill-only-wins/
tags: articles
title: "MYTHBUSTER: There\u2019s No \u201CPork\u201D in the One Big Beautiful Bill\
  \ \u2014 Only Wins"
---
 
### “I’ve heard there’s ‘pork’ in the One Big Beautiful Bill.”

You heard wrong — and nobody puts it better than White House Deputy
Chief of Staff Stephen Miller, who confronted that lie head-on during
an [interview](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xht_bJKTHmQ) with Charlie
Kirk.

*“There’s no pork in the bill. The bill has been public for weeks. Every
single provision is just one campaign pledge, one promise, one campaign
vow after another. The ONLY new spending in the bill is to secure the
homeland of the United States and save American sovereignty — fully paid
for, by the way, by increased visa fees on foreigners. \[…\]*

*The 2017 Trump Tax Cuts were rightly hailed as one of the conservative
movement’s great victories. How much greater would we say that victory
was if it also included full funding for the border wall? What if it
also included full funding for deportation? What if it also defunded
transgender surgeries nationwide? What if it also had the first-ever
endowment tax on America’s corrupt institutions of higher learning? What
if that bill also had No Tax on Tips, No Tax on Overtime, No Tax on
Social Security? What if that bill also created the strongest framework
for energy deregulation in American history? What if that bill also
created the first-ever system for the Department of Defense to be
involved in the defense of our southern border? In other words, one
policy went after another — plus the tax cuts. Nothing like this has
ever been done before in the history of the conservative movement. This
bill is electric. \[…\]*

*A rational person should be able to say, ‘Wow, it is amazing this bill
accomplishes the full tax agenda, the full border agenda, the full
immigration agenda, the full energy agenda, large portions of the trans
and de-woke-ifying agenda, large portions of the higher ed agenda, also
cancels the Green New Deal, also cancels the student loan bailout, also
has the largest welfare reform in history. You can acknowledge all that
— and then if you want to be an even greater fiscal hawk, say, ‘But I’d
like to cut more!’ But to pretend this bill includes pork — there’s no
pork in the bill. It’s been public for weeks, and the only provisions
you will find in the bill are campaign promises.”*
