---
date: '2025-06-25'
published_time: 2025-06-25 09:53:59-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/2025/06/irans-nuclear-facilities-have-been-obliterated-and-suggestions-otherwise-are-fake-news/
tags: articles
title: "Iran\u2019s Nuclear Facilities Have Been Obliterated \u2014 and Suggestions\
  \ Otherwise are Fake News"
---
 
The world is far safer after President Donald J. Trump’s highly
successful, decisive precision strikes against the Iranian regime’s key
nuclear facilities.

**Take it from those who actually know:**

[President
Trump](https://truthsocial.com/@realDonaldTrump/114730186433008075):
“Monumental Damage was done to all Nuclear sites in Iran, as shown by
satellite images. Obliteration is an accurate term! The white structure
shown is deeply imbedded into the rock, with even its roof well below
ground level, and completely shielded from flame. The biggest damage
took place far below ground level. Bullseye!!!”

[Israel Atomic Energy
Commission](https://www.cnn.com/world/live-news/israel-iran-conflict-us-trump-06-25-25-intl-hnk#:~:text=%E2%80%9CThe%20devastating%20US,to%20nuclear%20material.%E2%80%9D):
“The devastating US strike on Fordo destroyed the site’s critical
infrastructure and rendered the enrichment facility inoperable. We
assess that the American strikes on Iran’s nuclear facilities, combined
with Israeli strikes on other elements of Iran’s military nuclear
program, has set back Iran’s ability to develop nuclear weapons by many
years. The achievement can continue indefinitely if Iran does not get
access to nuclear material.”

[IDF Chief of Staff Lt. Gen. Eyal
Zamir](https://www.timesofisrael.com/idf-assesses-irans-nuclear-program-set-back-years-but-too-early-to-know-for-sure/):
“I can say here that the assessment is that we significantly damaged the
nuclear program, and I can also say that we set it back by years, I
repeat, years.”

[Iran Foreign Ministry spokesman Esmail
Baghaei](https://www.timesofisrael.com/liveblog_entry/irans-foreign-ministry-says-nuclear-facilities-badly-damaged-by-us-strikes/):
“Our nuclear installations have been badly damaged, that’s for sure.”

[Vice President JD
Vance](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1936781633585295640): “I can
say to the American people with great confidence that they are much
further away from a nuclear program today than they were 24 hours ago.
That was the objective of the mission, to destroy that Fordow nuclear
site, and of course, do some damage to the other sites as well, but we
feel very confident that the Fordow nuclear site was substantially set
back, and that was our goal.”

[Secretary of Defense Pete
Hegseth](https://www.cnn.com/2025/06/24/politics/intel-assessment-us-strikes-iran-nuclear-sites#:~:text=Hegseth%20also%20told,the%20successful%20mission.%E2%80%9C):
“Based on everything we have seen — and I’ve seen it all — our bombing
campaign obliterated Iran’s ability to create nuclear weapons. Our
massive bombs hit exactly the right spot at each target and worked
perfectly. The impact of those bombs is buried under a mountain of
rubble in Iran; so anyone who says the bombs were not devastating is
just trying to undermine the President and the successful mission.”

[Secretary
Hegseth](https://x.com/DODResponse/status/1937830060020351380): “Given
the 30,000 pounds of explosions and the capability of those munitions,
it was DEVASTATION underneath Fordow … Any assessment that tells you
otherwise is speculating with other motives.”

[Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Dan “Razin”
Caine](https://grabien.com/file/getmedia?id=2999930&key=d9cbccd963b6781c8a3133b124a724cf&userid=25622&download=3757f4ebf4f4584887b47a5b5ee79f79):
“Initial battle damage assessments indicate that all three sites
sustained extremely severe damage and destruction. More than 125 US
aircraft participated in this mission, including B2 stealth bombers,
multiple flights of fourth and fifth generation fighters, dozens and
dozens of air refueling tankers, a guided missile submarine, and a full
array of intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance aircraft, as
well as hundreds of maintenance and operational professionals.”

[Secretary of State Marco
Rubio](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1937838113445044579): “The
Iranian program — the nuclear program — today looks nothing like it did
just a week ago … That story is a false story and it’s one that really
shouldn’t be re-reported because it doesn’t accurately reflect what’s
happening.”

[Secretary
Rubio](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1937800084621558011):
“Everything underneath that mountain is in bad shape … There’s no way
Iran comes to the table if somehow nothing had happened. This was
complete and total obliteration. They are in bad shape. They are way
behind today compared to where they were just seven days ago because of
what President Trump did.”

[Special Envoy Steve
Witkoff](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1937653526911398342): “We
put 12 bunker buster bombs on Fordow. There’s no doubt that it breached
the canopy, there’s no doubt that it was well within reach of the depth
that these bunker buster bombs go to, and there’s no doubt that it was
obliterated — so the reporting out there that in some way suggests that
we did not achieve the objective is just completely preposterous.”

[Director of National Intelligence Tulsi
Gabbard](https://x.com/MissBeaE/status/1937327428176585072): “The
operation was a resounding success. Our missiles were delivered
precisely and accurately, obliterating key Iranian capabilities needed
to quickly assemble a nuclear weapon.”

[International Atomic Energy Agency Director General Rafael Mariano
Grossi](https://www.iaea.org/newscenter/statements/iaea-director-generals-introductory-statement-to-the-board-of-governors-23-june-2025): “Given
the explosive payload utilized, and the extreme vibration-sensitive
nature of centrifuges, very significant damage is expected to have
occurred. At the Esfahan nuclear site, additional buildings were hit,
with the US confirming their use of cruise missiles. Affected buildings
include some related to the uranium conversion process. Also at this
site, entrances to tunnels used for the storage of enriched material
appear to have been hit. At the Natanz enrichment site, the Fuel
Enrichment Plant was hit, with the US confirming that it used
ground-penetrating munitions.”

[Institute for Science and International Security President David
Albright](https://x.com/DAVIDHALBRIGHT1/status/1937556394766450949):
“Overall, Israel’s and U.S. attacks have effectively destroyed Iran’s
centrifuge enrichment program.  It will be a long time before Iran comes
anywhere near the capability it had before the attack.”

[Foundation for Defense of Democracies’ Nonproliferation and Biodefense
Program Deputy Director Andrea
Stricker](https://www.foxnews.com/politics/experts-gauge-success-bunker-buster-bombs-dropped-us-iran-nuclear-sites):
“I think that because of the massive damage and the shock wave that
would have been sent by 12 Massive Ordnance Penetrators at the Fordow
site, that it likely would render its centrifuges damaged or
inoperable.” 

[American Enterprise Institute Middle East Portfolio Manager Brian
Carter](https://www.nytimes.com/2025/06/24/us/politics/iran-nuclear-sites.html):
“There is no question that the bombing campaign ‘badly, badly damaged’
the three sites.”

[Institute for Science and International Security Senior Research Fellow
Spencer
Faragasso](https://www.washingtonpost.com/investigations/2025/06/22/iran-strikes-nuclear-site-damage-visuals/): “Overall,
it may possibly take years for Iran to reconstitute the capabilities it
lost at these facilities.”
