---
date: '2025-06-16'
published_time: 2025-06-16 16:03:45-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/2025/06/capitol-hill-touts-benefits-of-the-one-big-beautiful-bill/
tags: articles
title: Capitol Hill Touts Benefits of the One Big Beautiful Bill
---
 
Across Capitol Hill, members of Congress have been sharing with their
constituents the benefits of President Donald J. Trump’s One Big
Beautiful Bill — which include the [largest tax cut in
history](https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/2025/06/the-largest-tax-cut-in-history-for-working-and-middle-class-americans/),
[higher wages and take-home
pay](https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/2025/06/the-one-big-beautiful-bill-will-supercharge-our-economy/),
[unprecedented spending
cuts](https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/2025/06/mythbuster-the-one-big-beautiful-bill-cuts-spending-deficit-and-thats-a-fact/),
[border
security](https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/2025/05/one-big-beautiful-bill-is-a-once-in-a-generation-chance/#:~:text=3.%C2%A0It%20makes,Border%20Patrol%20agents.),
[protecting
Medicaid](https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/2025/06/the-one-big-beautiful-bill-will-end-taxpayer-funded-health-care-for-illegals/),
[modernizing air traffic
control](https://transportation.house.gov/news/documentsingle.aspx?DocumentID=408721),
and [much
more](https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/2025/06/50-wins-in-the-one-big-beautiful-bill/).

**Here are what some members of Congress are saying around the
country:**

**Sen. Chuck Grassley (R-IA) on FoxNews.com: **[**How Senate Republicans
are restoring rule of law and securing border for years to
come**](https://www.foxnews.com/opinion/sen-chuck-grassley-how-senate-republicans-restoring-rule-law-securing-border-years-come)

“While Democrat allies riot in the streets, Republicans are standing up
for what’s right. Today, as chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee,
I released legislative text for my committee’s section of the ‘One Big
Beautiful Bill.’ The Judiciary Committee’s provisions provide historic
investments to strengthen our nation’s border security and immigration
system, support local law enforcement and protect American families from
violence like we’ve seen in Los Angeles. The costs of the judiciary
section are offset by immigration application fees, which inject
accountability into the immigration system.”

**Sen. Cynthia Lummis (R-WY) in *Cowboy State Daily*:** [**Trump’s
Border Triumph — Making America Secure
Again**](https://cowboystatedaily.com/2025/06/15/guest-column-trumps-border-triumph-making-america-secure-again/)

“The Senate is currently developing President Trump’s comprehensive
legislative package, known as the One Big, Beautiful Bill Act, with the
goal of passage by July 4th. This legislation contains several
immigration measures that I believe are essential. The bill provides
funding to help finish President Trump’s border wall, and gives Border
Patrol and ICE agents the resources, technology, and personnel they need
to carry out the mission … The American people were clear last November
when they voted and told Washington, D.C. that it is time to fully
secure our border and deport illegal aliens. These provisions give
President Trump and his administration the resources they need to
continue delivering on this mandate.”

**Sen. Roger Marshall (R-KS) on FoxNews.com:** [**Trump’s One Big,
Beautiful Bill will keep our border the most secure it’s been in
history**](https://www.foxnews.com/opinion/us-has-most-secure-border-its-history-trumps-one-big-beautiful-bill-keep-way)

“Our country stands at a crossroads. Thanks to President Donald Trump’s
and Homeland Security Secretary Noem’s leadership, our border is secure.
We can either capitalize on this success and give law enforcement the
resources it needs to keep it secure by passing the One Big, Beautiful
Bill, or we can let the sacrifice of our men and women on the ground be
in vain.”

**Rep. Jodey Arrington (R-TX), Rep. August Pfluger (R-TX) in *The
Hill*: **[**The One Big Beautiful Bill Act delivers for America. Now the
Senate Must Deliver
Too.**](https://thehill.com/opinion/congress-blog/politics/5335379-american-tax-cuts-reform/)

“The House of Representatives has delivered on the American people’s
mandate by passing the One Big Beautiful Bill Act, the most
comprehensive and consequential set of conservative reforms in our
nation’s history. This transformative package includes record levels of
tax cuts, spending reduction, and border and national security
investment. The ball is now in the Senate’s court and their mission is
simple: move the One Big Beautiful Bill to the president’s desk as soon
as possible.”

**Rep. Michael Baumgartner (R-WA) in the *Ritzville Adams County
Journal*:** [**One ‘Big, Beautiful, Bill Act’ is good for
us**](http://ritzvillejournal.com/story/2025/06/11/opinion/one-big-beautiful-bill-act-is-good-for-us/28496.html)

“This legislation delivers on the promises made to the American people:
to secure the border, cut taxes, unleash American energy and restore
fairness to our economy. It reflects what voters demanded and what I
pledged to deliver.”

**Rep. Andy Barr (R-KY) in the *Lexington Herald-Leader*: **[**Senate
must pass Trump’s ‘Big, Beautiful
Bill’**](https://www.msn.com/en-us/news/politics/rep-andy-barr-senate-must-pass-trumps-big-beautiful-bill-opinion/ar-AA1GqpTY?ocid=BingNewsVerp)

“Last month, I voted to pass President Trump’s Big, Beautiful Bill. It
was an easy vote. The president’s leadership produced a transformational
legislative win that will deliver an across-the-board tax cut for
families, small businesses, farmers and seniors. On top of tax relief
for Kentuckians still rebounding from four years of runaway inflation
under Joe Biden, we surge resources to help law enforcement seal the
Southern border and provide $1.6 trillion in deficit reduction, all
while strengthening Medicaid for Kentuckians who need it. That’s why my
message to U.S. senators, especially from Kentucky, is very simple: pass
the Big, Beautiful Bill, and send it to the president’s desk.
Kentuckians can’t afford to wait, literally.”

**Rep. Jack Bergman (R-MI) in *The Detroit News*: **[**One Big Beautiful
Bill corrects nation’s
course**](https://www.detroitnews.com/story/opinion/2025/06/04/bergman-one-big-beautiful-bill-corrects-nations-course/84024829007/)

“After the last four years of chaos in America under the Biden-Harris
administration — from our overwhelmed southern border to reckless binge
spending driving up our national debt — we are one bad decision, or one
failure to act, away from catastrophe. That’s why I supported the One
Big Beautiful Bill Act, which will deliver middle-class tax relief,
secure our borders, bolster our defense, and restore the kind of fiscal
responsibility that northern Michigan families have practiced for
generations. This bill will turn the tide against out-of-control
spending and help rescue our economy.”

**Rep. Vern Buchanan (R-FL) in the *Sarasota
Herald-Tribune*: **[**Floridians benefit from Trump’s tax cuts. We can’t
let Democrats take them
away.**](https://www.heraldtribune.com/story/opinion/columns/guest/2025/05/13/trump-tax-cuts-vern-buchanan-opinion/83581885007/)

“As Floridians begin to recover from the disastrous Biden
administration, the last thing they need is a massive tax hike – but
that’s exactly what will happen if Congress doesn’t act. That’s why
Republicans are working to extend President Donald Trump’s 2017 tax cuts
and ensure all Americans get the relief they deserve.”

**Rep. Buddy Carter (R-GA) in the *Atlanta
Journal-Constitution*: **[**Sens. Ossoff, Warnock should support Trump’s
‘big, beautiful
bill’**](https://www.ajc.com/opinion/2025/06/buddy-carter-sens-ossoff-warnock-should-support-trumps-big-beautiful-bill/)

“Georgia’s Democratic U.S. Senators Jon Ossoff and Raphael Warnock
should not oppose President Trump’s ‘One, Big, Beautiful Bill’ Act
(OBBBA) … the most consequential piece of legislation of our generation.
It is a legacy defining bill that I was proud to support when it passed
the House of Representatives, advancing President Trump’s full domestic
agenda that more than 77 million Americans overwhelmingly voted for back
in November. That’s exactly why Ossoff and Warnock are going to fight
this bill at every turn.”

**Rep. Tom Cole (R-OK) on Indianz.com:** [**Promises Made, Promises
Kept**](https://indianz.com/News/2025/06/16/tom-cole-supporting-the-one-big-beautiful-bill-in-congress/)

“Last November, the American people gave their Representatives a mandate
when they overwhelmingly voted for change. 77 million Americans made it
very clear to us that they wanted a secure border, the resurgence of
American energy dominance, lower taxes, a lethal military focused on
warfighting instead of woke initiatives, and a more efficient federal
government that roots out fraud, waste, and abuse of taxpayer dollars —
essentially the platform that President Trump ran on. Now, less than six
months into the new Trump Administration, the United States House of
Representatives has already delivered on these promises by passing the
One Big Beautiful Bill Act.”

**Rep. Ben Cline (R-VA) on RealClearPolitics.com: **[**A Big, Beautiful
Win for
America**](https://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2025/06/04/a_big_beautiful_win_for_america_152871.html)

“The American Dream is back in reach and our nation is back on the path
to prosperity, security, and sanity, thanks to the actions of the House
of Representatives last week. With the House’s passage of President
Trump’s ‘One Big Beautiful Bill,’ we’ve shown that it is possible to
return common sense to our government, protect taxpayers, secure our
borders, and chart a course for national Golden Age – all in one
package.”

**Rep. Troy Downing (R-WY) in the *Billings Gazette*:** [**We are
staring down the barrel of a 26% tax
increase**](https://billingsgazette.com/opinion/column/article_0805649b-fd5a-5c64-afb1-89aaf5429c4d.html)

“We are staring down the barrel of a 26% tax increase. If Congress does
not take action to extend the President Donald Trump’s tax cuts by Jan.
1 of next year, the average Montana family of four will be out more than
$1,400 per year … Put plainly, a vote opposing an extension of the TCJA
is a vote to raise taxes — on the rich, on the poor, on you, on your
neighbor, on family farms, on the coffee shop down the street.
Republicans will prevent Democrats from walking America off a fiscal
cliff and avoid this catastrophic tax hike that threatens the financial
security of countless Montanans.”

**Rep. Neal Dunn (R-FL) in the *Tallahassee Democrat*:** [**Floridians:
Don’t let Washington raise your taxes while you’re not
looking**](https://www.tallahassee.com/story/opinion/2025/05/30/floridians-dont-let-congress-quietly-raise-your-taxes-opinion/83903039007/?taid=683988b8803bd60001a74408&utm_campaign=trueanthem&utm_medium=social&utm_source=twitter)

“Across Florida’s 2nd Congressional District, families have already been
stretched thin by rising costs – at the grocery store, at the gas pump,
and on their utility bills. The last thing they need is a tax hike. But
unless Congress acts soon, that’s exactly what nightmare is coming …
Preventing this tax hike should be a bipartisan priority. We owe it to
the people we serve to protect and build on the progress our nation has
made. Congress must act to make the TCJA permanent – to protect
prosperity, promote growth, and preserve the American Dream for the next
generation.”

**Rep. Gabe Evans (R-CO) in *Newsweek*: **[**House Republicans Are
Keeping Our Promises on Border
Security**](https://www.newsweek.com/gop-rep-house-republicans-are-keeping-our-promises-border-security-opinion-2068146)

“Americans are desperate to feel safe in our own neighborhoods, but time
and time again dangerous illegal immigrants stole from, raped,
assaulted, and killed innocent Americans. It is an honor to sit on the
House Homeland Security Committee and help lead the charge to secure our
borders and follow through on our public safety promises to our
constituents. As a part of Congress’ reconciliation package, Homeland
Republicans recently advanced recommendations for border security
funding to protect Americans, including over $46 billion to complete the
border wall system. This money will provide an additional 701 miles of
primary wall, construction of 900 miles of river barriers, and even
technology like sensors. A physical border is key to keeping the bad
guys out.”

**Rep. Randy Feenstra (R-IA) in the *Times-Republican*:** [**Iowa
families will benefit from President Trump’s ‘One, Big, Beautiful
Bill’**](https://www.timesrepublican.com/opinion/columnists/2025/06/iowa-families-will-benefit-from-president-trumps-one-big-beautiful-bill/)

“The other week, my Republican colleagues in the U.S. House of
Representatives and I passed President Trump’s ‘One, Big, Beautiful
Bill.’ This legislation contains numerous provisions to put more money
back in the pockets of Iowa families … President Trump’s ‘One, Big,
Beautiful Bill’ will finally give our families room to breathe again.
Estimates suggest that families could see up to $13,300 more in
take-home pay, with workers potentially gaining up to $11,600 in higher
wages over four years. With provisions that end taxes on tips, overtime,
and auto loan interest for American-made cars, working parents can be
certain that the extra effort they’re putting in for their families will
pay off.”

**Rep. Michelle Fischbach (R-MN) in the *Park Rapids Enterprise*:**
[**One Big Beautiful Bill Act helps families and small
businesses**](https://www.parkrapidsenterprise.com/opinion/fischbach-one-big-beautiful-bill-act-helps-families-and-small-businesses)

“The One Big Beautiful Bill Act protects Medicaid for those who need and
deserve it … It makes the 2017 Trump tax cuts permanent, which have been
so beneficial for families and small businesses to grow and thrive, even
during the uncertain economic times we experienced over the last several
years. This bill permanently doubles the guaranteed standard deduction
and expands it by $2,000 for every American family. It creates new tax
relief for seniors by adding an additional $4,000 deduction for those
aged 65 and over. It makes the 199A small business deduction permanent
and expands it to 23% for the over 60,000 small businesses in CD7. It
makes the doubled death tax exemption permanent and expands it for the
nearly 30,000 farms in CD7, helping families pass down their life’s work
to the next generation. It prevents the child tax credit from being cut
in half and expands the credit to $2,500 to support 74,460 families in
CD7. It eliminates tax on tips and overtime pay. And, it expands 529
education plans so families can make the right choices for them,
including using 529s for K-12 education materials, universities or trade
schools.”

**Rep. Sam Graves (R-MO) in *The Washington Times*: **[**One Big
Beautiful Bill Act provides a flight path for a modern air traffic
control
system**](https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2025/may/21/one-big-beautiful-bill-act-provides-flight-path-modern-air-traffic/)

“This has been a difficult year for U.S. aviation, with a string of
tragic crashes that have killed passengers and crew. Additionally, we
have seen reports about failing technology that has caused repeated air
traffic control outages and flight delays. Meanwhile, a shortage of
certified air traffic controllers has put additional strain on our
aviation system. President Trump, Transportation Secretary Sean Duffy
and House Republicans are saying ‘enough is enough,’ and we are doing
something about it.”

**Rep. Mark Green (R-NC) on RealClearPolitics.com: **[**‘One Big,
Beautiful Bill’ Will Give Americans a Secure
Border**](https://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2025/04/29/one_big_beautiful_bill_will_give_americans_a_secure_border_152712.html)

“The only way for us to make good on our promises to the American people
is to codify President Trump’s agenda. Funding common-sense and
effective border security measures through reconciliation is the first
step.”

**Rep. Michael Guest (R-MS) in *The Hill*:** [**Investing in border
security is a win for every
American**](https://x.com/HomelandGOP/status/1930975039488184628)

“Since President Trump entered office in January of 2025, our border
security has increased, the flow of illegal drugs has dropped
dramatically, and illegal border crossings have plummeted to levels not
seen in modern history. The success of the Trump administration’s
leadership at our borders cannot be underestimated. Now, Congress must
do its job to enshrine into law the work of President Trump.”

**Rep. Brett Guthrie (R-KY) on FoxNews.com: **[**GOP fights to protect
Medicaid for America’s most vulnerable while Democrats
fearmonger**](https://www.foxnews.com/opinion/rep-brett-guthrie-gop-fights-protect-medicaid-americas-most-vulnerable-while-democrats-fearmonger)

“It is a top priority of House Republicans to eliminate the waste, fraud
and abuse in the programs and safeguard expectant mothers, their
children, low-income seniors and especially individuals living with
disabilities who are receiving Medicaid coverage. Regrettably, Democrats
continue to fuel the falsehood that 13 million individuals will lose
healthcare coverage under OBBBA.”

**Rep. Mike Haridopolous (R-FL) in *Florida Today*:** [**“One Big
Beautiful Bill” is a win for Florida families,
workers**](https://www.floridatoday.com/story/opinion/2025/05/23/us-rep-haridopolos-dems-claiming-tax-cuts-are-for-rich-is-not-true/83725594007/)

“America voted for change last November, and now we’re delivering it.
Over the past four years, families have been hit with rising prices,
shrinking paychecks, and a government that grew too big and too careless
with your tax dollars. People are working harder than ever, but they’re
falling behind. That’s not right, and that’s why my Republican
colleagues and I in Congress are fighting hard to pass the ‘One Big
Beautiful Bill’ This bill is about getting back to basics: Rewarding
work, cutting waste, and putting American families first.”

**Rep. Erin Houchin (R-IN) in *Newsweek*: **[**The Truth About the One
Big Beautiful Bill—and What Democrats Don’t Want You to
Know**](https://www.newsweek.com/gop-rep-truth-about-one-big-beautiful-bill-what-democrats-dont-want-you-know-opinion-2081003)

“Democrats have spent weeks fearmongering about so-called cuts to
Medicaid, Medicare, and Social Security in the One Big Beautiful Bill.
Let’s be clear: those talking points are false, and they know it. What
this bill actually does is protect and preserve these critical safety
net programs for the people they were designed to serve—pregnant women,
children, individuals with disabilities, and seniors. It does so by
taking on the real problem: waste, fraud, and abuse that have run
rampant in our federal health programs for decades.”

**Rep. Jen Kiggans (R-VA) in the *Washington Examiner*:** [**The ‘big,
beautiful bill’ protects Medicaid for those who need
it**](https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/restoring-america/faith-freedom-self-reliance/3432333/big-beautiful-bill-protects-medicaid-for-those-who-need-it/)

“When I came to Congress, I promised the people of Virginia’s 2nd
Congressional District that I would pursue practical solutions to
improve the lives of working families — without the drama, the
headlines, or the politics. That commitment is reflected in the House’s
recently passed “big, beautiful bill,” a practical, solutions-oriented
piece of legislation that restores accountability to our safety net
programs. Unfortunately, misinformation has clouded the bill’s intent,
particularly when it comes to Medicaid. Let me set the record straight:
This legislation does not cut Medicaid for those who truly need it.
Instead, it strengthens the program for low-income families, seniors,
and individuals with disabilities while rooting out waste and holding
bad actors accountable.”

**Rep. David Kustoff (R-TN) in the *Washington Examiner*: **[**The ‘one
big, beautiful bill’ will restore the American
dream**](https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/restoring-america/faith-freedom-self-reliance/3435111/big-beautiful-bill-restore-american-dream/)

“Unfortunately, if Congress does not act, many of the provisions in TCJA
will expire at the end of the year. If that happens, the average family
in my district of West Tennessee will face a nearly 26% tax hike. A
child inheriting the family farm could pay such steep estate taxes that
he is forced to sell it. And a small business owner competing with
larger corporations could see her taxes nearly double. These are not
just numbers on a chart in Washington. These provisions affect each and
every one of us. If they expire, the American dream could be
unachievable for many of our citizens.”

**Rep. Tracey Mann (R-MO) in the *Kansas City Star*:** [**Kansas
deserves the gift of Trump’s One Big Beautiful
Bill**](https://www.kansascity.com/opinion/readers-opinion/guest-commentary/article308583760.html)

“I recently voted in the U.S. House of Representatives to advance the
One Big Beautiful Bill Act, which would provide working- and
middle-class Americans with the largest tax cuts in history and make
long overdue investments into our nation’s border security by funding
the completion of the border wall. The legislation would equip Customs
and Border Patrol with modern technology to assist with intercepting
drug and human smuggling while increasing detention capacity for
Immigration and Customs Enforcement as it works to deport violent
criminals and gang members who are in the country illegally.”

**Rep. Adrian Smith (R-NE) in the *Pawnee Republican*: **[**Building
Certainty for Small
Businesses**](https://adriansmith.house.gov/media/columns/building-certainty-small-businesses)

“For workers and entrepreneurs, few places are as ripe with economic
opportunity as the United States of America. Our world-leading
workforce, natural resources, educational institutions, rule of law
committed to protecting capital investment, and unique features such as
deepwater ports providing access to export goods and services to
consumers across both the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans provide
opportunities for American families with few rivals elsewhere around the
globe. Despite these economic strengths, there is much we can improve.
The federal government remains inefficient, and we must address issues
such as our spending-driven budget deficit. Likewise, too many
work-capable Americans remain on the sidelines despite millions of good
jobs available in our economy. Efforts to address the waste, fraud, and
abuse in federally funded programs are vitally important for the fiscal
health of our country, as are expanded efforts to help sidelined
Americans connect with good jobs. For this reason, the reconciliation
bill passed by the House enhances accountability for state
administration of federal benefit programs and improves incentives for
beneficiaries to find meaningful work.”

**Rep. Jason Smith (R-MO) on FoxNews.com:** [**It’s time for Congress to
deliver President Trump’s ‘big, beautiful bill’ to his
desk**](https://www.foxnews.com/opinion/its-time-congress-deliver-president-trumps-big-beautiful-bill-his-desk)

“Republicans have a historic opportunity to deliver America First tax
reforms that reward hard work, bring jobs back home, expand opportunity,
and most importantly, rebuild the American economy for hardworking
families across our nation. President Donald Trump has been crystal
clear about what he wanted Congress to deliver – 77 million Americans
raced to the ballot box in support of his vision of lower taxes for
those whose sweat moves our economy forward. Now, The One, Big,
Beautiful Bill passed by the Ways and Means Committee delivers for those
workers. It makes permanent the expiring provisions of the successful
2017 Trump tax cuts, provides additional tax relief to American
families, and rewards those who manufacture more at home and hire more
American workers. The additional tax relief includes eliminating taxes
on tips, overtime pay, and auto loan interest, and delivering tax relief
for seniors. Now, Congress must not fail the American people.”

**Rep. Tim Walberg (R-MI) in Leader Publications: **[**Empowering
Hardworking Americans through one big beautiful
bill**](https://www.leaderpub.com/2025/05/23/op-ed-empowering-hardworking-americans-through-one-big-beautiful-bill/)

“The One Big Beautiful Bill Act represents the culmination of each
instructed committee’s plan to eliminate waste, fraud, and abuse in
Washington and make vital investments in our communities. In total, the
bill would provide over $1.6 billion in savings, allowing the federal
government to be better stewards of American tax dollars and put us back
on the path to fiscal prosperity.  The cornerstone of the package is the
permanent expansion of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, which
revitalized our economy, unleashing unprecedented job growth and higher
wages for working families. Two years after being signed into law, real
median household income increased by $5,000 and real wages rose by 4.9%,
allowing families to pocket more of their hard-earned money. The reforms
also incentivized businesses to invest more in the U.S., ending the
decades-long trend of U.S. companies shipping operations overseas.”

**Rep. Rob Wittman (R-VA) in *The Virginian-Pilot*:** [**Voting for
spending bill kept my word to
Virginians**](https://www.pilotonline.com/2025/06/12/column-voting-for-spending-bill-kept-my-word-to-virginians/)

“Let me set the record straight: I kept my word. I fought for
Virginians, and I voted to protect working families, strengthen our
safety net, and invest in national security and economic opportunity.
Before this bill even came to a vote, I raised my voice publicly to
demand protections for the vulnerable. In April, I wrote to House
leadership making clear that balancing the budget must not come at the
expense of pregnant women, children, seniors or individuals with
disabilities. I demanded reforms that would support patients, help new
mothers and expand savings for working-class families. This bill
delivers on that promise.”

**Rep. Rudy Yakym (R-IN) in *Goshen News*:** [**The One, Big, Beautiful
Bill
Explained**](https://www.goshennews.com/opinion/readers-point-of-view-congressman-yakym-explains-one-big-beautiful-bill/article_449a58ac-54ef-405b-ac0e-e61267b3333a.html)

“The One Big Beautiful Bill isn’t some bloated spending package. It
doesn’t give any money to the Department of Education, HUD, or the EPA.
What it does is straightforward: cut taxes, rein in federal spending,
permanently secure the border, and reform welfare. When I’m meeting with
Hoosier manufacturers and small business owners or chatting with friends
at the grocery store, they’re clear about one thing: They’re taxed
enough. And I agree. That’s why it makes the 2017 Trump Tax Cuts
permanent. That means bigger paychecks, more investment in America, and
strong incentives for companies to stay in the U.S. rather than send
jobs overseas.”
