---
date: '2025-06-30'
modified_time: 2025-06-30 11:15:51-04:00
published_time: 2025-06-30 09:31:02-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/2025/06/60-organizations-sign-white-house-pledge-to-support-americas-youth-and-invest-in-ai-education/
tags: articles
title: "60+ Organizations Sign White House Pledge to Support America\u2019s Youth\
  \ and Invest in AI Education"
---
 
WASHINGTON, DC – Today, over 60 organizations are the first signers of
the White House’s Pledge to America’s Youth: Investing in AI Education,
which promises to support the goals and mission of President Trump’s
executive order Advancing Artificial Intelligence Education for
America’s Youth.

The organizations “pledge to make available resources for youth and
teachers through funding and grants, educational materials and
curricula, technology and tools, teacher professional development
programs, workforce development resources, and/or technical expertise
and mentorship” over the next four years, working alongside the White
House Task Force on Artificial Intelligence Education. Together, the
Pledge will help make AI education accessible to K-12 students across
the country, sparking curiosity in the technology and preparing the
next-generation for an AI-enabled economy.

“Fostering young people’s interest and expertise in artificial
intelligence is crucial to maintaining American technological dominance.
These initial pledges from American organizations will help create new
educational and workforce development opportunities for our students. We
invite other organizations to join the pledge as we look forward to
furthering these partnerships to introduce more of America’s youth to
AI,” **said Michael Kratsios, Director of the White House Office of
Science and Technology Policy and Chair of the White House Task Force on
AI Education.**

“We are thrilled that so many organizations have signed the Pledge to
America’s Youth. It is clear there is a lot of energy about AI and how
it can be used responsibly in education. The resources and tools that
have been pledged through this initiative will help our teachers and
learners leverage AI in classrooms and communities across America,”
**said Secretary of Education Linda McMahon.**

“AI is reshaping our economy and the way we live and work, and we must
ensure the next generation of American workers is equipped with the
skills they need to lead in this new era,” **said Secretary of Labor
Lori Chavez-DeRemer.** “By uniting behind this pledge to provide
critical resources for students and educators, I’m encouraged to see
these organizations are committed to helping young Americans build the
skills they need in AI literacy to drive innovation and become empowered
leaders of tomorrow.”

“To secure America’s future, the United States must win the AI race,”
**said U.S. Secretary of Energy Chris Wright.** “That’s why President
Trump is investing in the next generation of American innovators and
providing students and teachers the tools to lead in this emerging
industry. With this President’s bold leadership and the future leaders
of America dialed in, America stands to dominate.”

“The U. S. National Science Foundation is proud to support the White
House’s Pledge to America’s Youth: Investing in AI Education. Equipping
young people with the tools to understand and shape artificial
intelligence is not only a matter of national competitiveness—it is an
investment in a more innovative, prosperous and informed future,” **said
Brian Stone, performing the duties of the NSF director.** “NSF has long
recognized the importance of nurturing early interest in science and
technology. Through our ongoing efforts to fund cutting-edge research,
support teacher development, and expand access to STEM education in
every corner of the country, we are committed to ensuring that all
students have the opportunity to engage with and contribute to the
future of AI. We applaud the organizations that have joined this pledge
and look forward to collaborating with our partners to deliver the
contributed resources to America’s youth and inspire the next generation
of AI innovators, researchers, and technology leaders.”

“President Trump is bringing America into a new Golden Age by harnessing
the best tools and innovations America has to offer. At USDA, we are
working to give students the opportunities and mentorship they need to
continue the legacy of American ingenuity. Our efforts involve
leveraging specific training and grant opportunities for students and
teachers that encourage the use and development of artificial
intelligence in agriculture. Under President Trump’s leadership, this
task force is empowering teachers to integrate artificial intelligence
into their curriculum as they prepare their students for the future,”
**said U.S. Secretary of Agriculture Brooke L. Rollins.**

Stay tuned as the Trump Administration works with these and other
organizations to announce specific new grants, programs, and
technologies towards the Pledge throughout the year ahead. Visit [our
website](https://www.whitehouse.gov/edai/) for more information on
joining the Pledge to America’s Youth, and stay up to date with the
latest pledge signers and initiatives.

\###
