---
date: '2025-06-13'
modified_time: 2025-06-13 15:36:39-04:00
published_time: 2025-06-13 15:36:38-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/2025/06/what-they-are-saying-president-trump-stops-radical-environmentalism-to-generate-power-for-the-columbia-river-basin/
tags: articles
title: 'What They Are Saying: President Trump Stops Radical Environmentalism to Generate
  Power for the Columbia River Basin'
---
 
President Donald J. Trump took bold action to revoke the Biden
Administration’s “Restoring Healthy and Abundant Salmon, Steelhead, and
Other Native Fish Populations in the Columbia River Basin” Memorandum,
which would have eliminated secure and reliable energy sources.

**Key administration officials, Members of Congress, and industry
leaders are supporting President Trump’s action to restore common sense
to the Columbia River Basin:**

**Secretary of the Interior, Doug Burgum:** “This administration will
not stand by while American energy is threatened. We are fiercely
committed to keeping energy affordable, reliable, and made in America.
Today, President Trump took decisive action revoking a Biden-era policy
that jeopardized four critical hydroelectric dams powering communities
along the Snake River. Now is not the time to shut down American energy.
Instead, we’re keeping the lights on, costs low, and putting the
American people first.”

**Secretary of Energy, Chris Wright**: “The Snake River Dams have been
tremendous assets to the Pacific Northwest for decades, providing
high-value electricity to millions of American families and businesses.
With this action, President Trump is bringing back common sense,
reversing the dangerous and costly energy subtraction policies pursued
by the last administration. American taxpayer dollars will not be spent
dismantling critical infrastructure, reducing our energy-generating
capacity or on radical nonsense policies that dramatically raise prices
on the American people.”

**Secretary of Commerce, Howard Lutnick:** “For far too long, we’ve
sidelined America’s energy potential in the name of politicized programs
that had nothing to do with real conservation efforts and hurt our
farmers, fishers, and producers. President Trump’s actions today will
give families access to reliable, affordable energy and redefine how we
safeguard our environment.”

**Acting Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works,** **D. Lee
Forsgren:** “Under President Trump’s leadership, the Army Corps is eager
to work with our federal partners to advance American energy dominance
and provide vital flood risk management, navigation, hydropower
generation, water supply and recreation benefits to the Pacific
Northwest and the nation.”

**White House Council on Environmental Quality Chief of Staff, Katherine
Scarlett:** “President Trump has once again showcased his commitment to
unleash American energy dominance and prioritize policies that work for
everyday Americans. The Council on Environmental Quality stands ready to
coordinate with agencies to save millions of dollars of federal funds
that would have otherwise been wasted on misguided policies, hindering
the advancement of reliable energy sources.”

**U.S. Senator Mike Crapo (ID):** “President Trump is demonstrating once
again his commitment to listening to the will of people on the ground
and the sound science that backs the current state of the dams. The
Biden Administration’s controversial proposal was doomed from the start.
The flawed initiative ignored congressional authority over the dams, as
well as the views and feedback of regional stakeholders and constituents
in Idaho. The path forward for a solution to salmon recovery must
include a truly collaborative approach that involves all—including both
public and private—stakeholders in the region.”

**U.S. Senator Steve Daines (MT): “**The Snake River Dams support
agriculture production, provide a reliable energy source, and provide
critical transportation. Biden’s Columbia River Memorandum was an
attempt to breach the dams and appease radical environmentalist groups,
with Montana communities left to pay the price. I’m grateful for
President Trump’s leadership in revoking this damaging policy and for
his consistent track record of supporting Montana-first priorities.”

**U.S. Senator Cynthia Lummis (WY):** “For far too long, the Biden
administration’s anti-American energy policies stifled American energy
production and burdened western communities. I applaud President Trump’s
decision to restore common-sense energy policies that will unleash our
nation’s vast natural resources and create good-paying jobs while
strengthening America’s energy independence and national security. The
west has long been ready to lead America’s energy renaissance, and the
Trump administration’s commitment to removing regulatory barriers will
benefit not just our region, but all Americans who deserve affordable,
reliable energy.​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​“ 

**U.S. Senator Jim Risch (ID):** “The Biden administration’s one-sided,
backroom agreement blatantly disregarded the essential role the lower
Snake River dams play and the Idaho communities that rely on
them. Today’s announcement by President Trump represents a return to
sound science and common-sense. I’ve long fought the attempts by radical
Democrats, unelected bureaucrats, and activist litigants to tear down
our dams. Congress authorized these dams, and only Congress has the
power to remove them.”

**U.S. Representative Cliff Bentz (OR-02):** “I have worked for more
than 30 years to protect the irreplaceable Columbia River hydropower
electrical system. The Biden Administration did its best to initiate the
destruction of that system through improper manipulation of
environmental laws and policies. This manipulation was reflected in a
memorandum of understanding. Thankfully, President Trump has revoked the
Biden Administration’s “Restoring Healthy and Abundant Salmon,
Steelhead, and Other Native Fish Populations in the Columbia River
Basin” Memorandum. This was exactly the right thing to do and provides a
foundation for protection of the Four Lower Snake River dams. The
President’s order is totally consistent with our nation’s fight to win
the race for artificial intelligence, superiority, and energy dominance.
The people of nation and especially the rate payers of the Northwest are
incredibly grateful for this action.”

**U.S. Representative Russ Fulcher (ID-01):** “President Trump’s action
to revoke the misguided 2023 Biden memorandum, which quietly laid the
groundwork for breaching the Lower Snake River dams, puts a stop to an
alarming effort to bypass Congress. I applaud this decision for standing
up and responding to those of us who called on the Administration to
stop this reckless attempt to tear out critical infrastructure in the
West!”

**U.S. Representative Dan Newhouse (WA-04):** “Throughout my time in
Congress, I have stood firm in my support for the Lower Snake River Dams
and the critical role they play in our region’s economy. Today’s action
by President Trump reverses the efforts by the Biden administration and
extreme environmental activists to remove the dams, which would have
threatened the reliability of our power grid, raised energy prices, and
decimated our ability to export grain to foreign markets. I want to
thank the President for his decisive action to protect our dams, and I
look forward to continuing to work with the administration for the
benefit of the Fourth District.” 

**Idaho Lt. Governor, Scott Bedke:** “The Lower Snake River dams are
essential to Idaho’s way of life. They provide irrigation, energy, and
access to markets. The Biden plan threatened all of that without real
input from the people who would have paid the price. President Trump is
right to shut down the deal. Idaho is ready to help unleash America’s
energy dominance.”

**National Grain and Feed Association, Mike Seyfert, President and
CEO**: “We applaud the Trump administration’s leadership in rescinding
the 2023 directives and recognizing the fact that these dams are
critical to transporting U.S. grain and oilseeds to global markets. One
barge tow moves the equivalent of 140 rail cars or 538 trucks –
infrastructure that cannot be easily replaced. Breaching the dams would
have caused a ripple effect throughout the U.S. agricultural value
chain, and a significantly negative impact on U.S. exports and the rural
economy.”

**National Rural Electric Cooperative Association, Jim Matheson, CEO**:
“President Trump’s announcement smartly helps preserve affordable,
reliable electricity for families and businesses across the Pacific
Northwest,” Matheson said. “Hydroelectric power is the reason the lights
stay on in the region. And as demand for electricity surges across the
nation, preserving access to always-available energy resources like
hydropower is absolutely crucial. We appreciate the administration’s
continuing commitment to smart energy policies and unleashing American
energy.”

**Northwest Public Power Association,** **Kurt Miller, Executive
Director and CEO:** “This withdrawal is a necessary course correction
toward energy reliability, affordability, and transparency.”

**Northwest RiverPartners, Clark Mather, Executive Director:** “Now is
the time to come together and chart a sustainable path toward effective
solutions that protect salmon and maintain affordable and reliable
hydropower needed by millions of people in the Pacific Northwest. This
politicized agreement between the former administration and only a
fraction of impacted sovereign entities, devalued hydropower, our
region’s largest source of affordable, clean electricity. Northwest
RiverPartners remains committed to working with all sovereign Tribes,
state leaders and other stakeholders to identify science-based, durable
solutions.”

**Pacific Northwest Waterways Association, Neil Maunu, Executive
Director:** “The divisive issue of dam breaching has prevented the type
of partnerships necessary to work together on productive strategies and
actions to improve salmon populations for the benefit of all Pacific
Northwest residents. We can have salmon and a robust economy at the same
time.”

**Washington Association of Wheat Growers, Michelle Hennings, Executive
Director:** “The livelihood of Washington wheat growers and rural
communities depends on their ability to utilize key benefits from the
Columbia River System, including transportation, irrigation, and
reliable energy, but without the Lower Snake River dams that won’t be
possible. We look forward to working with the federal government and all
policymakers to ensure dams and salmon can continue to coexist, and we
stand firm in our support of sound science and reliable data to make
informed decisions.”
