---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-06-21'
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/06/21/notice-on-the-continuation-of-the-national-emergency-with-respect-to-north-korea/
published_time: 2021-06-21 15:37:24-04:00
title: "Notice on the Continuation of the National Emergency with Respect to North\_\
  Korea"
---
 
On June 26, 2008, by Executive Order 13466, the President declared a
national emergency with respect to North Korea pursuant to the
International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701-1706) to
deal with the unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security
and foreign policy of the United States constituted by the existence and
risk of the proliferation of weapons-usable fissile material on the
Korean Peninsula.  The President also found that it was necessary to
maintain certain restrictions with respect to North Korea that would
otherwise have been lifted pursuant to Proclamation 8271 of June 26,
2008, which terminated the exercise of authorities under the Trading
With the Enemy Act (50 U.S.C. App. 1-44) with respect to North Korea.

On August 30, 2010, the President signed Executive Order 13551, which
expanded the scope of the national emergency declared in Executive Order
13466 to deal with the unusual and extraordinary threat to the national
security, foreign policy, and economy of the United States posed by the
continued actions and policies of the Government of North Korea,
manifested by its unprovoked attack that resulted in the sinking of the
Republic of Korea Navy ship *Cheonan* and the deaths of 46 sailors in
March 2010; its announced test of a nuclear device and its missile
launches in 2009; its actions in violation of United Nations Security
Council Resolutions 1718 and 1874, including the procurement of luxury
goods; and its illicit and deceptive activities in international markets
through which it obtains financial and other support, including money
laundering, the counterfeiting of goods and currency, bulk cash
smuggling, and narcotics trafficking, which destabilize the Korean
Peninsula and imperil United States Armed Forces, allies, and trading
partners in the region.

On April 18, 2011, the President signed Executive Order 13570 to take
additional steps to address the national emergency declared in Executive
Order 13466 and expanded in Executive Order 13551 that would ensure
implementation of the import restrictions contained in United Nations
Security Council Resolutions 1718 and 1874 and complement the import
restrictions provided for in the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2751
*etseq*.).

On January 2, 2015, the President signed Executive Order 13687 to expand
the scope of, and to take further steps with respect to, the national
emergency declared in Executive Order 13466, as expanded in Executive
Order 13551, and addressed further in Executive Order 13570, to address
the threat to the national security, foreign policy, and economy of the
United States constituted by the provocative, destabilizing,
and repressive actions and policies of the Government of North Korea,
including its destructive, coercive cyber-related actions during
November and December 2014, actions in violation of United Nations
Security Council Resolutions 1718, 1874, 2087, and 2094, and commission
of serious human rights abuses.

On March 15, 2016, the President signed Executive Order 13722 to take
additional steps with respect to the national emergency declared in
Executive Order 13466, as modified in scope and relied upon for
additional steps in subsequent Executive Orders, to address the
Government of North Korea’s continuing pursuit of its nuclear and
missile programs, as evidenced by its February 7, 2016, launch using
ballistic missile technology and its January 6, 2016, nuclear test in
violation of its obligations pursuant to numerous United Nations
Security Council resolutions and in contravention of its commitments
under the September 19, 2005, Joint Statement of the Six-Party Talks,
that increasingly imperils the United States and its allies.

On September 20, 2017, the President signed Executive Order 13810 to
take further steps with respect to the national emergency declared in
Executive Order 13466, as modified in scope and relied upon for
additional steps in subsequent Executive Orders, to address the
provocative, destabilizing, and repressive actions and policies of the
Government of North Korea, including its intercontinental ballistic
missile launches of July 3 and July 28, 2017, and its nuclear test of
September 2, 2017; its commission of serious human rights abuses; and
its use of funds generated through international trade to support its
nuclear and missile programs and weapons proliferation.

The existence and risk of the proliferation of weapons‑usable fissile
material on the Korean Peninsula and the actions and policies of the
Government of North Korea continue to pose an unusual and extraordinary
threat to the national security, foreign policy, and economy of the
United States.  For this reason, the national emergency declared in
Executive Order 13466, expanded in scope in Executive Order 13551,
addressed further in Executive Order 13570, further expanded in scope in
Executive Order 13687, and under which additional steps were taken in
Executive Order 13722 and Executive Order 13810, must continue in effect
beyond June 26, 2021.  Therefore, in accordance with section 202(d) of
the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)), I am continuing for 1
year the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13466 with
respect to North Korea.

This notice shall be published in the *Federal Register* and transmitted
to the Congress.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

THE WHITE HOUSE,  
June 21, 2021.
