---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-06-01'
modified_time: 2021-06-01 09:32:05-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/06/01/a-proclamation-on-national-immigrant-heritage-month-2021/
published_time: 2021-06-01 09:32:04-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on National Immigrant Heritage Month,\_2021"
---
 
America is, always has been, and always will be a Nation of immigrants. 
It was the premise of our founding; it is reflected in our Constitution;
it is etched upon the Statue of Liberty — that “from her beacon-hand
glows world-wide welcome.”  During National Immigrant Heritage Month, we
reaffirm and draw strength from that enduring identity and celebrate the
history and achievements of immigrant communities across our Nation.

Across each generation throughout our history, wave after wave of
immigrants have enriched our Nation and made us better, stronger, more
innovative, and more prosperous.  The American story includes the story
of courageous families who ventured here — be it centuries ago, or just
this year — from every part of the world to seek new possibilities and
help to forge our Nation.  In every era, immigrant innovators, workers,
entrepreneurs, and community leaders have fortified and defended us, fed
us and cared for us, advanced the limits of our thinking, and broken new
ground.

After an especially difficult period marked by both the COVID-19
pandemic and the all-too-frequent demonization of immigrants, it is
vital that our Nation reflect on the leadership, resilience, and courage
shown by generations of immigrant communities, and recommit ourselves to
our values as a welcoming Nation.  We recognize all of the workers, many
of whom are immigrants, who have contributed to the food security,
health, and safety of all Americans during this challenging year — and
every year.  And we honor the sacrifices made by immigrants who serve on
the front lines of the pandemic as health care providers, first
responders, teachers, grocers, farm workers, and other essential
workers.  It was these same immigrant families and communities of color
who were disproportionately struck by the virus.  In honor of those
we’ve lost, let us dedicate ourselves as a Nation to protecting one
another and doing our part to put an end to this pandemic for good.

The promise of our Nation is that every American has a fair shot and an
equal chance to get ahead, yet systemic racism and persistent barriers
have denied this promise to far too many immigrants throughout our
history and today.  I have placed equity at the center of my
Administration’s agenda.  From day one, I promised that my
Administration would reflect the full diversity of our Nation — and
today, nearly one-third of my Administration’s 1,500 political
appointees are naturalized U.S. citizens or children of immigrants. 

I have directed Federal agencies to rebuild trust in our immigration
system that has been lost, to reach out to underserved communities
unable to access the opportunities our Nation offers them, to offer
again a welcoming humanitarian hand to the persecuted and oppressed, and
to reduce barriers to achieving citizenship and equality. 

I am honored to serve alongside Vice President Harris, the first
daughter of immigrants to hold the Office of the Vice President, and to
work with so many dedicated public servants who are immigrants — and who
carry with them every day the legacies of their families’ sacrifice and
resilience.  
     Despite the progress our Nation has made since our founding, there
is more work to be done to extend the full promise of America to all our
people.  Nearly 11 million people in this country are undocumented — and
it is time that the Congress acts by passing the U.S. Citizenship Act of
2021, the immigration reform plan that I introduced on day one of my
Presidency. My plan would provide a pathway to lawful permanent
residency and citizenship for these undocumented immigrants, including
Dreamers, individuals with Temporary Protected Status, farm workers, and
other essential workers who contribute to our Nation every day.

Vice President Harris and I affirm that immigrants historically have
made and continue to make our Nation stronger.  I urge my fellow
Americans to join us this month in celebrating immigrant heritage,
stories, and cultures.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim June 2021 as
National Immigrant Heritage Month.  I call upon the people of the United
States to learn more about the history of immigrant communities
throughout the generations following our Nation’s founding, and to
observe this month with appropriate programming and activities.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this first day of June,
in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the Independence
of the United States of America the two hundred and forty-fifth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
