---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-06-01'
modified_time: 2021-06-01 14:35:20-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/06/01/a-proclamation-on-national-homeownership-month-2021/
published_time: 2021-06-01 14:35:19-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on National Homeownership Month,\_2021"
---
 
For millions of Americans, homeownership is the cornerstone of a life
with security, with dignity, and with hope. A home is more than four
walls and a roof; it is a place where we can celebrate triumphs and
weather the trials of life. A place where we can watch our families grow
and prosper. A place that helps us build wealth we can pass down to our
children and our grandchildren.

The aspiration to own a home is connected deeply to the American dream.
It has driven generations of Americans, in search of a place to call
one’s own.

Today, for people across the United States, the desire to own a home
burns as brightly as it ever has. Yet the stark reality is that, for too
many, the dream of homeownership is becoming more difficult to realize
and sustain. This is especially true in the wake of the economic
devastation inflicted by the COVID-19 pandemic.

We also know that people of color continue to face discrimination in our
housing market — when trying to secure mortgages, to have their homes
appraised, and to live in neighborhoods where their families can thrive.
In recent years, the homeownership gap between Black and white families
reached its widest point since 1968, when banks could still legally
discriminate against borrowers based on the color of their skin.

This is economically and morally wrong, and it is why, as President, I
have made it a central priority to expand stability and opportunity
within our housing market. On my first day in office, I took executive
action to extend foreclosure moratoriums for nearly 11 million
households with mortgages guaranteed by the Federal Government. My
Administration introduced and passed the American Rescue Plan, which
will deliver nearly $10 billion in relief for homeowners who have fallen
behind on their mortgage payments during the pandemic. And to create
greater opportunities for homeownership moving forward, we have proposed
the American Jobs Plan — which can spur the construction and
rehabilitation of more than 500,000 homes for buyers of more modest
means.

The Department of Housing and Urban Development will continue to advance
affordable and sustainable homeownership throughout our Nation. This
will require that we help more hardworking Americans purchase their
first homes, increase access to credit and mortgage insurance for
borrowers of color, and fully enforce the 1968 Fair Housing Act — to
root out systemic discrimination from our housing market and break down
the unjust barriers that prevent too many Americans from buying a home.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim June 2021 as
National Homeownership Month. I call upon the people of this Nation to
recognize the enduring value of homeownership and to recommit ourselves
to helping more Americans realize that dream.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this first day of June,
in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the Independence
of the United States of America the two hundred and forty-fifth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
