---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-06-09'
modified_time: 2021-06-09 10:24:28-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/06/09/executive-order-on-protecting-americans-sensitive-data-from-foreign-adversaries/
published_time: 2021-06-09 10:23:36-04:00
title: "Executive Order on Protecting Americans\u2019 Sensitive Data from Foreign\
  \ Adversaries"
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, including the International
Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 *et seq.*) (IEEPA), the
National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 *et seq.*), and section 301 of
title 3, United States Code,

I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States of America, find
that it is appropriate to elaborate upon measures to address the
national emergency with respect to the information and communications
technology and services supply chain that was declared in Executive
Order 13873 of May 15, 2019 (Securing the Information and Communications
Technology and Services Supply Chain).  Specifically, the increased use
in the United States of certain connected software applications
designed, developed, manufactured, or supplied by persons owned or
controlled by, or subject to the jurisdiction or direction of, a foreign
adversary, which the Secretary of Commerce acting pursuant to Executive
Order 13873 has defined to include the People’s Republic of China, among
others, continues to threaten the national security, foreign policy, and
economy of the United States.  The Federal Government should evaluate
these threats through rigorous, evidence-based analysis and should
address any unacceptable or undue risks consistent with overall national
security, foreign policy, and economic objectives, including the
preservation and demonstration of America’s core values and fundamental
freedoms.

By operating on United States information and communications technology
devices, including personal electronic devices such as smartphones,
tablets, and computers, connected software applications can access and
capture vast swaths of information from users, including United States
persons’ personal information and proprietary business information.
 This data collection threatens to provide foreign adversaries with
access to that information.  Foreign adversary access to large
repositories of United States persons’ data also presents a significant
risk. 

In evaluating the risks of a connected software application, several
factors should be considered.  Consistent with the criteria established
in Executive Order 13873, and in addition to the criteria set forth in
implementing regulations, potential indicators of risk relating to
connected software applications include:  ownership, control, or
management by persons that support a foreign adversary’s military,
intelligence, or proliferation activities; use of the connected software
application to conduct surveillance that enables espionage, including
through a foreign adversary’s access to sensitive or confidential
government or business information, or sensitive personal data;
ownership, control, or management of connected software applications by
persons subject to coercion or cooption by a foreign adversary;
ownership, control, or management of connected software applications by
persons involved in malicious cyber activities; a lack of thorough and
reliable third-party auditing of connected software applications; the
scope and sensitivity of the data collected; the number and sensitivity
of the users of the connected software application; and the extent to
which identified risks have been or can be addressed by independently
verifiable measures.

The ongoing emergency declared in Executive Order 13873 arises from a
variety of factors, including the continuing effort of foreign
adversaries to steal or otherwise obtain United States persons’ data. 
That continuing effort by foreign adversaries constitutes an unusual and
extraordinary threat to the national security, foreign policy, and
economy of the United States.  To address this threat, the United States
must act to protect against the risks associated with connected software
applications that are designed, developed, manufactured, or supplied by
persons owned or controlled by, or subject to the jurisdiction or
direction of, a foreign adversary.

Additionally, the United States seeks to promote accountability for
persons who engage in serious human rights abuse. If persons who own,
control, or manage connected software applications engage in serious
human rights abuse or otherwise facilitate such abuse, the United States
may impose consequences on those persons in action separate from this
order. 

Accordingly, it is hereby ordered that:

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Section 1.</span>  <span
style="text-decoration: underline">Revocation of Presidential
Actions.</span>  The following orders are revoked:  Executive Order
13942 of August 6, 2020 (Addressing the Threat Posed by TikTok, and
Taking Additional Steps To Address the National Emergency With Respect
to the Information and Communications Technology and Services Supply
Chain); Executive Order 13943 of August 6, 2020 (Addressing the Threat
Posed by WeChat, and Taking Additional Steps To Address the National
Emergency With Respect to the Information and Communications Technology
and Services Supply Chain); and Executive Order 13971 of January 5, 2021
(Addressing the Threat Posed by Applications and Other Software
Developed or Controlled by Chinese Companies).

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 2.</span>  <span
style="text-decoration: underline">Implementation.</span>  (a)  The
Director of the Office of Management and Budget and the heads of
executive departments and agencies (agencies) shall promptly take steps
to rescind any orders, rules, regulations, guidelines, or policies, or
portions thereof, implementing or enforcing Executive Orders 13942,
13943, or 13971, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law,
including the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. 551 *et seq.*  In
addition, any personnel positions, committees, task forces, or other
entities established pursuant to Executive Orders 13942, 13943, or 13971
shall be abolished, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law.  
     (b)  Not later than 120 days after the date of this order, the
Secretary of Commerce, in consultation with the Secretary of State, the
Secretary of Defense, the Attorney General, the Secretary of Health and
Human Services, the Secretary of Homeland Security, the Director of
National Intelligence, and the heads of other agencies as the Secretary
of Commerce deems appropriate, shall provide a report to the Assistant
to the President and National Security Advisor with recommendations to
protect against harm from the unrestricted sale of, transfer of, or
access to United States persons’ sensitive data, including personally
identifiable information, personal health information, and genetic
information, and harm from access to large data repositories by persons
owned or controlled by, or subject to the jurisdiction or direction of,
a foreign adversary.  Not later than 60 days after the date of this
order, the Director of National Intelligence shall provide threat
assessments, and the Secretary of Homeland Security shall provide
vulnerability assessments, to the Secretary of Commerce to support
development of the report required by this subsection.  
     (c)  Not later than 180 days after the date of this order, the
Secretary of Commerce, in consultation with the Secretary of State, the
Secretary of Defense, the Attorney General, the Secretary of Homeland
Security, the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, and the
heads of other agencies as the Secretary of Commerce deems appropriate,
shall provide a report to the Assistant to the President and National
Security Advisor recommending additional executive and legislative
actions to address the risk associated with connected software
applications that are designed, developed, manufactured, or supplied by
persons owned or controlled by, or subject to the jurisdiction or
direction of, a foreign adversary.    
     (d)  The Secretary of Commerce shall evaluate on a continuing basis
transactions involving connected software applications that may pose an
undue risk of sabotage or subversion of the design, integrity,
manufacturing, production, distribution, installation, operation, or
maintenance of information and communications technology or services in
the United States; pose an undue risk of catastrophic effects on the
security or resiliency of the critical infrastructure or digital economy
of the United States; or otherwise pose an unacceptable risk to the
national security of the United States or the security and safety of
United States persons.  Based on the evaluation, the Secretary of
Commerce shall take appropriate action in accordance with Executive
Order 13873 and its implementing regulations.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 3.</span>  <span
style="text-decoration: underline">Definitions.</span>  For purposes of
this order:  
     (a)  the term “connected software application” means software, a
software program, or a group of software programs, that is designed to
be used on an end-point computing device and includes as an integral
functionality, the ability to collect, process, or transmit data via the
Internet;  
     (b)  the term “foreign adversary” means any foreign government or
foreign non-government person engaged in a long-term pattern or serious
instances of conduct significantly adverse to the national security of
the United States or security and safety of United States persons;  
     (c)  the term “information and communications technology
or services” means any hardware, software, or other product or service
primarily intended to fulfill or enable the function of information or
data processing, storage, retrieval, or communication by electronic
means, including transmission, storage, and display;  
     (d)  the term “person” means an individual or entity; and  
     (e)  the term “United States person” means any United States
citizen, lawful permanent resident, entity organized under the laws of
the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States
(including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 4.</span>  <span
style="text-decoration: underline">General Provisions.</span>  (a) 
Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise
affect:  
          (i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department
or agency, or the head thereof; or  
          (ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office
of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or
legislative proposals.  
     (b)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.  
     (c)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right
or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity
by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.  

  
THE WHITE HOUSE,  
    June 9, 2021.
