---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-06-08'
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/06/08/notice-on-the-continuation-of-the-national-emergency-with-respect-to-the-western-balkans/
published_time: 2021-06-08 15:53:24-04:00
title: Notice on the Continuation of the National Emergency with Respect to the Western
  Balkans
---
 
On June 26, 2001, by Executive Order 13219, the President declared a
national emergency with respect to the Western Balkans pursuant to the
International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 *et seq*.)
to deal with the unusual and extraordinary threat to the national
security and foreign policy of the United States constituted by the
actions of persons engaged in, or assisting, sponsoring, or supporting,
(i) extremist violence in the former Republic of Macedonia (what is now
the Republic of North Macedonia) and elsewhere in the Western Balkans
region, or (ii) acts obstructing implementation of the Dayton Accords in
Bosnia or United Nations Security Council Resolution 1244 of June 10,
1999, in Kosovo.  The President subsequently amended that order in
Executive Order 13304 of May 28, 2003, to take additional steps with
respect to certain actions that obstruct implementation of, among other
things, the Ohrid Framework Agreement of 2001 relating to Macedonia.

The actions of persons threatening the peace and international
stabilization efforts in the Western Balkans, including acts of
extremist violence and obstructionist activity, continue to pose an
unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign
policy of the United States.  For this reason, the national emergency
declared on June 26, 2001, must continue in effect beyond June 26,
2021.  Therefore, in accordance with section 202(d) of the National
Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)), I am continuing for 1 year the
national emergency declared with respect to the Western Balkans in
Executive Order 13219.

This notice shall be published in the *Federal Register* and transmitted
to the Congress.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

THE WHITE HOUSE,  
June 8, 2021.
