---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-06-01'
modified_time: 2021-06-01 14:12:36-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/06/01/a-proclamation-on-national-caribbean-american-heritage-month-2021/
published_time: 2021-06-01 14:12:35-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on National Caribbean-American Heritage Month,\_2021"
---
 
America’s diversity is and always has been the defining strength of our
Nation — in every generation, our society, spirit, and shared ambitions
have been refreshed by wave after wave of immigrants seeking out their
American dream.  Throughout our history, Caribbean Americans have
brought vibrant cultures, languages, traditions, and values that
strengthen our country and add new chapters to our common story.  In
recognition of Caribbean Americans’ countless gifts and contributions to
our Nation, we celebrate National Caribbean-American Heritage Month.

Caribbean Americans have made our country more innovative and more
prosperous; they have enriched our Nation’s arts and culture, our public
institutions, and our economy.  I am honored to celebrate this National
Caribbean-American Heritage Month alongside Caribbean-American
barrier-breaking public servants in my Administration — including Vice
President Kamala Harris, Secretary of Homeland Security Alejandro
Mayorkas, Secretary of Education Miguel Cardona, and Domestic Policy
Advisor Susan Rice — all of whom continue to be sources of pride and
inspiration for Caribbean Americans across the country.

Caribbean-American intellects and artists like James Weldon Johnson, the
poet who gave us the anthem, *Lift Every Voice and Sing;* celebrated
neo-expressionist painter Jean-Michel Basquiat; and John B. Russwurm,
the first Caribbean-American editor of a U.S. newspaper, have left a
lasting impact on our country.  Caribbean-American jurists like
Constance Baker Motley, the first Black woman appointed to the Federal
bench, and the Nation’s first Latina Supreme Court Justice, Sonia
Sotomayor, have made innumerable contributions to the American justice
system.  Shirley Chisholm, the daughter of Caribbean immigrants, blazed
new trails as our Nation’s first Black Congresswoman — and the first
Black woman to launch a major-party bid for the Presidency.  Public
servants like Antonia Novello, our Nation’s first female Surgeon
General, and Colin Powell, our first Black Secretary of State, have
followed in her footsteps, charting new paths of their own in service to
the American people.

Despite the powerful legacy of achievement of Caribbean Americans, many
members of the Caribbean-American community continue to face systemic
barriers to equity, opportunity, and justice.  Systemic racism has
uniquely impacted Black and Latino immigrant communities, including
Caribbean Americans, leading to disparities in health care, education,
housing, criminal justice, and economic opportunity.  My Administration
is committed to addressing those entrenched disparities — and to
bringing our Nation closer to its promise that all people are created
equal and deserve to be treated equally throughout their lives.  That is
why I have launched a whole-of-government approach to advancing racial
justice and equity. 

During National Caribbean-American Heritage Month, we celebrate the
legacy and essential contributions of Caribbean Americans who have added
so much to our American fabric.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim June 2021 as
National Caribbean-American Heritage Month.  I encourage all Americans
to join in celebrating the history, culture, and achievements of
Caribbean Americans with appropriate ceremonies and activities.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this first day of June,
in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty‑one, and of the Independence
of the United States of America the two hundred and forty-fifth.  

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
