---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-06-30'
modified_time: 2021-06-30 12:37:55-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/06/30/a-proclamation-on-the-50th-anniversary-of-the-26th-amendment/
published_time: 2021-06-30 12:37:54-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on the 50th Anniversary of the 26th\_Amendment"
---
 
Our Constitution recognizes that, as a Nation, we are constantly
learning.  Our Founders built that recognition into its original design,
providing a mechanism to amend our Constitution as our Nation evolved. 
On July 1, 1971, our Nation ratified the 26th Amendment to the
Constitution, lowering the voting age to 18.  At the time, 18-, 19-, and
20-year-old Americans were fulfilling their civic duties:  paying taxes,
serving in our Armed Forces, acting as first responders, laboring in
fields, factories, and service jobs across the country, and pursuing
higher education.  They were participating in our democracy and all of
the responsibilities of citizenship in all ways except for one:  they
could not vote.  A broad coalition, following in the footsteps of the
suffragettes of the early 20th century and the civil rights activists of
the 1960s, advocated, educated, and prevailed in persuading our Nation
that those younger Americans were entitled to the right to vote. 
We also made a national commitment that the right to vote would never be
denied or abridged for any adult voter based on their age.

My first race for the Senate was one of the first elections in which
18-year-olds could vote, and the energy and passion of Delaware’s young
people helped propel me to an unlikely victory.

Fifty years later, younger voters remain essential to our civic
infrastructure.  They are not only voting in our elections — including
at record rates in 2020 — but winning them.  Younger Americans are
lending their talent and vision to school boards, city councils, and
county commissions; teenagers are serving as State legislators and
mayors, and we are the better for it. 

Younger voters are not waiting to inherit the future; they are building
the future themselves.  Young Americans have been on the front lines in
the fight to defend the right to vote and expand access to the ballot
box for all eligible voters.  Their civic engagement extends beyond
voting — with young Americans leading the calls for racial justice,
climate action, gun violence prevention, and immigration reform among
many other issues. 

Despite the progress we have made, there remain persistent gaps in
turnout between younger voters and their older counterparts.  There is
still more that we can and must do to deliver on the promise of the 26th
Amendment.  My Administration has made public service and civic
education a priority, engaging younger Americans in our shared struggle
for continual progress.  I have directed Federal agencies to consider
ways to make it easier to vote and to learn about voting, and to focus
on the various ways that the Federal Government engages younger
Americans, online and off.  Today’s youth are more diverse than past
generations — and laws aimed at suppressing voter turnout in Black and
Brown communities also impact young voters.  My Administration supports
the For the People Act and the John Lewis Voting Rights Advancement Act
to protect the fundamental right to vote and make our democracy more
equitable and accessible for all Americans. 

Today, we honor the bipartisan expansion of voter enfranchisement.  Let
us continue our work to make the 26th Constitutional Amendment ever more
meaningful in the months and years ahead.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim July 1, 2021, as
the 50th Anniversary of the 26th Amendment.  I call upon all Americans
to participate in ceremonies and activities that honor the 26th formal
modification of our national Charter, that recognize the contributions
made by voters enfranchised by its terms, and that work toward full
participation of all who are eligible to vote.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirtieth day of
June, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-fifth.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
