---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-06-01'
modified_time: 2021-06-01 14:40:23-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/06/01/a-proclamation-on-black-music-appreciation-month-2021/
published_time: 2021-06-01 14:40:22-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on Black Music Appreciation Month,\_2021"
---
 
Throughout our history, there has been no richer influence on the
American songbook than Black music and culture.  From early spirituals
born out of the unconscionable hardships of slavery; to the creation of
folk and gospel; to the evolution of rhythm and blues and jazz; to the
ascendance of rock and roll, rap, and hip-hop — Black music has shaped
our society, entertained and inspired us, and helped write and tell the
story of our Nation.

During Black Music Appreciation Month, we honor the innovative artists
whose musical expressions move us, brighten our daily lives, and bring
us together.  Across the generations, Black music has pioneered the way
we listen to music while preserving Black cultural traditions and
sharing the unique experiences of the Black community.  Black artists
have dramatically influenced what we all hear and feel through music —
joy and sadness, love and loss, pride and purpose. 

Black music has always stood on its own — a beacon of resilience and
resistance — while at the same time helping to shape countless other
musical and cultural traditions.  From the syncopated rhythms of jazz to
the soulful expressions of R&B, Black music spans an extraordinarily
broad spectrum of genres and styles.  The distinct voices and
instruments of Black artists have filled the halls of the Apollo Theater
in New York City, Preservation Hall in New Orleans, the Fillmore in San
Francisco, and other iconic venues throughout the United States and
around the world, energizing audiences and inspiring millions.  The
music created and expressed by Black communities has paved the way for
generations of musicians across all races, creeds, colors, religions,
sexual orientations, and identities.  The creativity and spirit of Black
music is everywhere, and our Nation and the world are richer for it.

This month, we also honor the many important contributors to our
Nation’s musical heritage that are no longer with us.  And although they
have taken their final bows, their musical legacies and influence will
live on in our hearts and souls, and inspire a new generation of artists
and fans.

In appreciating the indelible contributions of Black Americans to the
music landscape, we must also recognize the crisis of racial inequity
that Black Americans have faced in America for centuries — a crisis that
is often reflected and challenged in Black music.  We must rededicate
ourselves to rooting out systemic racism from every part of our society,
and work together to advance racial justice and equity.  In the music
industry, that work includes identifying and eliminating barriers that
Black creatives face in producing and maintaining ownership of their
music and other creations.  In this month of June, we celebrate the
Black music that has shaped and enlivened our lives and our country, and
recommit ourselves to advancing racial equity for artists — and for
everyone.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim June 2021 as Black
Music Appreciation Month.  I call upon public officials, educators, and
all the people of the United States to observe this month with
appropriate activities and programs that raise awareness and
appreciation of Black music.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
first day of June, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and
of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-fifth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
