---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-06-18'
modified_time: 2021-06-18 13:26:23-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/06/18/a-proclamation-on-fathers-day-2021/
published_time: 2021-06-18 13:26:22-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on Father\u2019s Day,\_2021"
---
 
Like so many fathers, my dad was a man of decency, honor, generosity,
and kindness.  He had a profound impact on me, and instilled in me the
understanding of the basic truth that everyone is entitled to be treated
with dignity and respect.  The value set my father taught me, I taught
to my children and my grandchildren.  I hold his words, his wisdom, and
his influence in my heart every day and every time I sign my name
as President, Joseph R. Biden, Jr.

Father’s Day is a time to recognize, appreciate, and celebrate the
fathers and father figures in our lives who lift us up on their
shoulders and shape our lives for the better.  We thank the dads who
have guided, taught, coached, cared for us, and supported us through
life’s trials and tribulations.  And, we celebrate all that they impart:
 character and perspective, lessons borne from experience, and the
sacrifices made from love. 

We also know this can be a hard day for many — for those who have lost a
father, a grandfather, a stepfather, or a fatherly role model; and for
those fathers who have lost a child of their own.  During the past year,
too many families lost fathers too soon because of and during this
pandemic.  We think of them today and every day, and we honor their
enduring memories and legacies.

My Administration is committed to strengthening American families and
easing the burdens of caregiving, so that more fathers and mothers can
raise children while pursuing fulfilling lives and careers of their
own.  The American Families Plan would provide 12 weeks of paid family
leave, so that all parents who work outside the home can spend precious
time with their newborn children or care for their children and other
loved ones when they get sick.  By investing in our caregiving
infrastructure, we can help ensure that no father or mother has to
choose between putting food on the table or caring for their children. 
My Administration is also committed to helping single moms and dads,
many of whom shoulder all of the parenting responsibility in their
children’s lives, sacrificing greatly to ensure that their kids have the
same opportunities as everyone else. 

Today, we express our appreciation for the fathers, stepfathers,
grandfathers, and father figures who enrich our character, love us
unconditionally, and give so much of themselves every day so we can live
lives worthy of their dreams and sacrifices.  

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, in accordance with a joint resolution of the Congress
approved April 24, 1972, as amended (36 U.S.C. 109), do hereby proclaim
June 20, 2021, as Father’s Day.  I direct the appropriate officials of
the Government to display the flag of the United States on all
Government buildings on this day.  Let us remember our fathers, living
and deceased, and give them the honor and gratitude they deserve.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this eighteenth day of
June, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-fifth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
