---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-06-14'
modified_time: 2021-06-14 14:14:03-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/06/14/a-proclamation-on-world-elder-abuse-awareness-day-2021/
published_time: 2021-06-14 14:14:02-04:00
title: A Proclamation on World Elder Abuse Awareness Day, 2021
---
 
Older Americans make invaluable contributions to our families, our
communities, and our Nation every day.  But for far too many, the sacred
promise of aging with dignity in America is broken by unconscionable
incidents of abuse, neglect, or exploitation.  On World Elder Abuse
Awareness Day, Americans of all ages join the international community to
raise awareness and help bring an end to elder abuse.

Elder abuse can take many forms, including financial, emotional,
physical, or sexual abuse, as well as exploitation and neglect.  Every
year, one in ten Americans aged 60 and older experiences abuse — and for
every case of elder abuse that comes to the attention of authorities, it
is estimated that 23 cases are never brought to light.  Since the start
of the COVID-19 pandemic, we have also seen a chilling increase in hate
crimes targeting Asian-Americans, many of whom have been elders.  These
attacks are shameful and deeply un-American.

Central to our Nation is the idea that we are all in this together, and
that as Americans we owe one another a basic duty of care.  The pandemic
has both reinforced the importance of that duty and tested our capacity
to meet it — the virus has exacerbated the quiet harm of social
isolation among seniors around the world, a condition that makes abuse,
neglect, and exploitation more likely.  Having lost so many cherished
seniors to this virus, we must recommit ourselves to fully including
older Americans in our communities and systems of support.  We must care
for one another — and leave no one behind.

With over three-quarters of Americans 65 and over now fully vaccinated
and more progress being made every day, the future for seniors is
growing brighter and brighter.  After a painful year, grandparents
around the world are hugging their grandchildren again.  Vaccinated
seniors who were socially isolated are able to reengage with the broader
community again.  And as we begin to build back better, we are working
to ensure that older Americans have greater opportunities to live with
dignity, safety, independence, and social connections.

My Administration is committed to fulfilling that promise.  That’s why
the American Rescue Plan included more than $1.4 billion in additional
funding for programs that promote community living and ensure the safety
and protection of older adults.  The law also enhances the Elder Justice
Act and ensures that Adult Protective Services can be used to protect
the safety and dignity of all seniors.  Additionally, the plan included
new Medicaid funding to expand access to critical home and
community-based health care services, and over $275 million for elder
justice programs that address abuse, neglect, and exploitation.  The
American Jobs Plan and American Families Plan will further that
progress, building up the care infrastructure that our economy and so
many families depend on — expanding day programs for seniors, programs
that bring care workers to seniors’ homes to cook meals, and programs to
help seniors get around their home safely and live more independently.

As we expand opportunities for older Americans, my Administration will
also not tolerate elder abuse or hate in any form.  I have instructed
agencies across the Federal Government to do their part to combat elder
abuse and support survivors.  We are working to renew and strengthen the
Violence Against Women Act, which also dedicates Federal funds to
develop a more comprehensive approach to addressing abuse and neglect
in later life, including through the funding of victim service
providers, law enforcement, and prosecutors working to prevent and
respond to domestic violence, sexual assault, and stalking experienced
by older adults, whether caused by a spouse, family member, caregiver,
or others.  And this year, for the first time, the Federal Government
has provided funding to Adult Protective Services programs in every
State and Territory to support their critical, on-the-ground work
investigating abuse and connecting victims to resources.  

During World Elder Abuse Awareness Day, we also recognize the
individuals who dedicate themselves to preventing elder abuse.  All
across our Nation, caregivers work to help older adults stay connected
to their communities while preventing elder abuse and intervening if it
occurs.  These unsung heroes include family members, Adult Protective
Services workers, social service providers, nonprofit victim services
organizations, long-term care ombudspersons, law enforcement officers,
judges and judicial personnel, legal professionals, health care
professionals, and financial professionals.

On World Elder Abuse Awareness Day, we stand with all older Americans,
and elderly people around the world, who are victims of elder abuse,
neglect, and financial exploitation, and we recommit ourselves to
protecting every senior’s right to live their golden years with dignity
and respect.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim June 15, 2021, as
World Elder Abuse Awareness Day.  I call upon all Americans to work for
elder justice by building inclusive communities that welcome people of
all ages and abilities; by learning the warning signs of elder abuse,
neglect, and exploitation; and by challenging age-related biases.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this fourteenth day of
June, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-fifth.

  
                              JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
