---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-06-01'
modified_time: 2021-06-01 08:09:56-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/06/01/a-proclamation-on-lesbian-gay-bisexual-transgender-and-queer-pride-month-2021/
published_time: 2021-06-01 08:09:55-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, and Queer Pride Month,\_\
  2021"
---
 
The uprising at the Stonewall Inn in June, 1969, sparked a liberation
movement — a call to action that continues to inspire us to live up to
our Nation’s promise of equality, liberty, and justice for all.  Pride
is a time to recall the trials the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender,
and Queer (LGBTQ+) community has endured and to rejoice in the triumphs
of trailblazing individuals who have bravely fought — and continue to
fight — for full equality.  Pride is both a jubilant communal
celebration of visibility and a personal celebration of self-worth and
dignity.  This Pride Month, we recognize the valuable contributions of
LGBTQ+ individuals across America, and we reaffirm our commitment to
standing in solidarity with LGBTQ+ Americans in their ongoing struggle
against discrimination and injustice.

The LGBTQ+ community in America has achieved remarkable progress since
Stonewall.  Historic Supreme Court rulings in recent years have struck
down regressive laws, affirmed the right to marriage equality, and
secured workplace protections for LGBTQ+ individuals in every State and
Territory.  The Matthew Shepard and James Byrd, Jr. Hate Crimes
Prevention Act broadened the definition of hate crimes to include crimes
motivated by sexual orientation or gender identity.  Members of the
LGBTQ+ community now serve in nearly every level of public office — in
city halls and State capitals, Governors’ mansions and the halls of the
Congress, and throughout my Administration.  Nearly 14 percent of my
1,500 agency appointees identify as LGBTQ+, and I am particularly
honored by the service of Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg, the
first openly LGBTQ+ person to serve in the Cabinet, and Assistant Health
Secretary Dr. Rachel Levine, the first openly transgender person to be
confirmed by the Senate. 

For all of our progress, there are many States in which LGBTQ+
individuals still lack protections for fundamental rights and dignity in
hospitals, schools, public accommodations, and other spaces.  Our Nation
continues to witness a tragic spike in violence against transgender
women of color.  LGBTQ+ individuals — especially youth who defy sex or
gender norms — face bullying and harassment in educational settings and
are at a disproportionate risk of self-harm and death by suicide.  Some
States have chosen to actively target transgender youth through
discriminatory bills that defy our Nation’s values of inclusivity and
freedom for all.

Our Nation also continues to face tragic levels of violence against
transgender people, especially transgender women of color.  And we are
still haunted by tragedies such as the Pulse Nightclub shooting in
Orlando.  Ending violence and discrimination against the LGBTQ+
community demands our continued focus and diligence.  As President, I am
committed to defending the rights of all LGBTQ+ individuals. 

My Administration is taking historic actions to finally deliver full
equality for LGBTQ+ families.  On my first day in office, I signed an
Executive Order charging Federal agencies to fully enforce all Federal
laws that prohibit discrimination on the basis of gender identity or
sexual orientation.  As a result, the Federal Government has taken steps
to prevent discrimination against LGBTQ+ people in employment, health
care, housing, lending, and education.  I also signed an Executive Order
affirming all qualified Americans will be able to serve in the Armed
Forces of the United States — including patriotic transgender Americans
who can once again proudly and openly serve their Nation in uniform —
and a National Security Memorandum that commits to supporting LGBTQ+
Federal employees serving overseas.  My Administration is also working
to promote and protect LGBTQ+ human rights abroad.  LGBTQ+ rights are
human rights, which is why my Administration has reaffirmed America’s
commitment to supporting those on the front lines of the equality and
democracy movements around the world, often at great risk.  We see you,
we support you, and we are inspired by your courage to accept nothing
less than full equality.

While I am proud of the progress my Administration has made in advancing
protections for the LGBTQ+ community, I will not rest until full
equality for LGBTQ+ Americans is finally achieved and codified into
law.  That is why I continue to call on the Congress to pass the
Equality Act, which will ensure civil rights protections for LGBTQ+
people and families across our country.  And that is why we must
recognize emerging challenges, like the fact that many LGBTQ+ seniors,
who faced discrimination and oppression throughout their lives, are
isolated and need support and elder care. 

During LGBTQ+ Pride Month, we recognize the resilience and determination
of the many individuals who are fighting to live freely and
authentically.  In doing so, they are opening hearts and minds, and
laying the foundation for a more just and equitable America.  This Pride
Month, we affirm our obligation to uphold the dignity of all people, and
dedicate ourselves to protecting the most vulnerable among us.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim June 2021 as
Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, and Queer Pride Month.  I call upon
the people of the United States to recognize the achievements of the
LGBTQ+ community, to celebrate the great diversity of the American
people, and to wave their flags of pride high.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this first day of June,
in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the Independence
of the United States of America the two hundred and forty-fifth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
