---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-06-29'
modified_time: 2021-06-29 14:47:23-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/06/29/letter-to-the-speaker-of-the-house-and-the-president-pro-tempore-of-the-senate-consistent-with-the-war-powers-resolution-public-law-93-148/
published_time: 2021-06-29 14:47:22-04:00
title: "Letter to the Speaker of the House and the President Pro Tempore of the Senate\
  \ Consistent with the War Powers Resolution (Public Law\_93-148)"
---
 
Dear Madam Speaker: (Dear Mr. President:)  
  
At my direction, on June 27, 2021, United States forces conducted
targeted strikes against facilities at two locations in Syria and one
location in Iraq near the Iraq-Syria border.  These facilities were used
by Iran-backed militia groups that have been involved in a series of
unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) and rocket attacks against United States
personnel and facilities in Iraq.  These militia attacks have escalated
in recent months.  Recent rocket attacks have included ones on Balad Air
Base on April 4, April 18, and May 3, 2021; the Baghdad Diplomatic
Support Center near the Baghdad International Airport on May 2, 2021;
and Al‑Asad Air Base on May 4 and May 24, 2021.  Recent UAV attacks have
included ones on United States facilities in Erbil on April 14, 2021;
Al-Asad Air Base on May 8, 2021; Bashur Air Base on May 10, 2021; and
United States facilities near the Baghdad International Airport on June
9, 2021.  These attacks have injured and threatened the lives of United
States and Coalition personnel.  Additional UAV attacks have been
attempted.   
  
I directed the June 27 strikes in order to protect and defend the safety
of our personnel, to degrade and disrupt the ongoing series of attacks
against the United States and our partners, and to deter the Islamic
Republic of Iran and Iran-backed militia groups from conducting or
supporting further attacks on United States personnel and facilities. 
In support of these aims, the targeted strikes were directed at
facilities used by groups involved in these ongoing attacks for weapons
storage, command, logistics, and UAV operations.  
  
I directed this discrete military action consistent with my
responsibility to protect United States citizens both at home and abroad
and in furtherance of United States national security and foreign policy
interests, pursuant to my constitutional authority to conduct United
States foreign relations and as Commander in Chief and Chief Executive. 
The United States took this necessary and proportionate action
consistent with international law, and in the exercise of the United
States’ inherent right of self-defense as reflected in Article 51 of the
United Nations Charter.  The United States stands ready to take further
action, as necessary and appropriate, to address further threats or
attacks.   
  
I am providing this report as part of my efforts to keep the Congress
fully informed, consistent with the War Powers Resolution (Public Law
93-148).  Additional information is provided in a classified annex.  I
appreciate the support of the Congress in this action.       

Sincerely,  
  
                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
