---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-06-11'
modified_time: 2021-06-11 14:30:24-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/06/11/a-proclamation-on-flag-day-and-national-flag-week-2021/
published_time: 2021-06-11 14:30:23-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on Flag Day And National Flag Week,\_2021"
---
 
In the midst of a revolution, less than a year after declaring our
independence, the Congress consecrated what would become an enduring
emblem of American unity by adopting a national flag on June 14, 1777.

In the 244 years since, the United States has grown and changed across
the generations — and our flag has changed in turn.  The blue field of
stars has been enlarged as our Union has gained in size and strength. 
The 13 stripes, symbolizing the 13 original States, have held as
constant as the bedrock values upon which our Nation was first conceived
— the very same values we still cherish, and still reach for, today.

Since adoption of the Stars and Stripes, Americans — and people around
the world — have continuously looked to our flag as a symbol of unity
and liberty.  Our flag has sailed around the globe, and journeyed to the
Moon and, now, to Mars.  It has flown on fields of battle, and marks the
resting places of those who have given what President Lincoln called
“the last full measure of devotion” for our country.  Its prominence at
civic landmarks and seats of public authority communicates the promise
of democracy — that under this flag, the rule of law is supreme and the
people reign.  As we continue the sacred work of building a more perfect
Union together, let our flag serve as a reminder to us, and to the
world, that America stands for and strives for the promise of freedom,
justice, and equality for all.

To commemorate the adoption of our flag, the Congress, by joint
resolution approved August 3, 1949, as amended (63 Stat. 492),
designated June 14 of each year as “Flag Day” and requested that the
President issue an annual proclamation calling for its observance and
for the display of the flag of the United States on all Federal
Government buildings.  The Congress also requested, by joint resolution
approved June 9, 1966, as amended (80 Stat. 194), that the President
issue annually a proclamation designating the week in which June 14
occurs as “National Flag Week” and calling upon all citizens of the
United States to display the flag during that week.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, do hereby proclaim June 14, 2021, as Flag Day, and the week
starting June 13, 2021, as National Flag Week.  I direct the appropriate
officials to display the flag on all Federal Government buildings during
this week, and I urge all Americans to observe Flag Day and National
Flag Week by displaying the flag.  I encourage the people of the
United States to observe with pride and all due ceremony those days from
Flag Day through Independence Day, set aside by the Congress (89 Stat.
211), as a time to honor the American spirit, to celebrate our history
and the foundational values we strive to uphold, and to publicly recite
the Pledge of Allegiance to the Flag of the United States of America.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this eleventh day of
June, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-fifth.

  
                                 JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
