---
date: '2023-04-19'
modified_time: 2023-04-19 12:23:29-04:00
published_time: 2023-04-19 16:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/04/19/president-biden-announces-key-nominees-42/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key\_Nominees"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
the following individuals to serve as key leaders in his administration:

-   Tanya J. Bradsher, Nominee for Deputy Secretary of Veterans Affairs
-   Margaret L. Taylor, Nominee for Legal Adviser of the Department of
    State

**<u>Tanya J. Bradsher, Nominee for Deputy Secretary of Veterans
Affairs</u>**

Tanya J. Bradsher serves as the Chief of Staff at the United States
Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). In this role, she is the Senior
Advisor to the Secretary and Deputy Secretary in the federal
government’s second-largest cabinet department, with a budget of more
than $246 billion and over 424,000 employees serving in VA medical
centers, clinics, benefits offices, and national cemeteries. Bradsher is
a combat veteran who served for 20 years in the United States Army,
retiring in 2013 at the rank of Lieutenant Colonel. She has also served
on the White House’s National Security Council during both the
Obama-Biden and Biden-Harris Administrations, as Chief of Staff to
Congressman Don Beyer in Virginia’s 8th District, with the American
Psychiatric Association as Chief of Communications, and with the Defense
Health Agency as Chief of Plans for Public Affairs. During the
Obama-Biden Administration, Bradsher served as the Assistant Secretary
for Public Affairs at the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), where
she oversaw public outreach, media, and incident communications efforts.
Before joining DHS, she served at the White House as the Assistant
Director for the Office of Public Engagement, where she led Veteran,
Wounded Warrior, and Military Family Outreach initiatives. Bradsher
earned her M.A. in Strategic Communications from George Washington
University, and her B.A. from the University of North Carolina at Chapel
Hill. She has received numerous military awards, including the Bronze
Star Medal. Bradsher and her husband, Colonel (Retired) John Bradsher,
have three children.

**<u>Margaret L. Taylor, Nominee for Legal Adviser of the Department of
State</u>**

Margaret L. Taylor is General Counsel of the United States Agency for
International Development. Previously, she was a Fellow in Governance
Studies at the Brookings Institution and Senior Editor at Lawfare. She
served as the Democratic Chief Counsel and Deputy Staff Director for the
Senate Foreign Relations Committee. Prior to that, she was an attorney
in the Office of the Legal Adviser at the U.S. Department of State,
where she advised on the legal aspects of foreign assistance programs,
international economic sanctions, anti-trafficking in persons efforts,
and other international law enforcement matters.  Taylor was a Council
on Foreign Relations International Affairs Fellow with the Center for
Strategic & International Studies. She received her A.B. from Princeton
University and J.D. from Columbia Law School, where she served as the
Editor-in-Chief of the Columbia Law Review. She clerked for Judge Amalya
Kearse of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.

\###
