---
date: '2023-04-20'
modified_time: 2023-04-20 21:18:32-04:00
published_time: 2023-04-20 21:30:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/04/20/what-they-are-sayingmembers-of-congress-and-organizations-rally-around-julie-sus-nomination/
tags: statements-releases
title: "WHAT THEY ARE SAYING: Members of Congress And Organizations Rally Around Julie\
  \ Su\u2019s\_Nomination"
---
 
Julie Su’s performance in today’s Senate nomination hearing to become
the Secretary of Labor was greeted with enthusiasm and support from
members of Congress, labor organizations, business groups, and community
leaders. These individuals and groups called for her swift confirmation
touting her qualifications, leadership of the Department of Labor, and
thoughtful engagement with stake holders across the board.  
  
As Acting Secretary Su said during her hearing today, “when he announced
my nomination for U.S Secretary of Labor, the President called me ‘the
American Dream.’ My parents believed in it, I benefited from it, and I
want to do my part to make sure it is a reality for workers across the
nation.”  
  
*See below for what they are saying:*  
  
****<u>Congressional Leaders And Caucuses</u>****  
  
**Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus (CAPAC):
“**[@POTUS ](https://twitter.com/POTUS)called Julie Su “the American
Dream.” The daughter of immigrants, she knows what America’s diverse
workforce needs to succeed. She is imminently qualified to be our
nation’s next Labor Secretary, and CAPAC remains in complete support of
her swift confirmation.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/CAPAC/status/1649080788980203520?cxt=HHwWgICwkbGP2-ItAAAA),
4/20/23\]  
  
**Democratic Women’s Caucus**: “Julie Su has spent her career fighting
to protect workers’ rights, and she understands that supporting working
women will help build a stronger, more fair economy for everyone. She’s
the champion we need leading the Department of Labor.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/DemWomenCaucus/status/1649076315813736451),
4/20/23\]  
  
**Minnesota Senator Tina Smith:** “Julie Su has spent her career
dedicated to creating American jobs and supporting America’s
workforce.    She’s served brilliantly as Marty Walsh’s deputy and
should be confirmed — that way we can keep building an economy that
works for everyone.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenTinaSmith/status/1649049491490897926?s=20),
4/20/23\]  
  
**Congresswoman Rep. Lois Frankel, Co-Chair of Democratic Women’s
Caucus:** “Through her decades of fighting for workers & her past two
years as Deputy Secretary at [@USDOL](https://twitter.com/USDOL), Julie
Su is a qualified & excellent choice to be our next Secretary of Labor.
I join all groups & leaders calling
to [\#ConfirmSu](https://twitter.com/hashtag/ConfirmSu?src=hashtag_click).”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepLoisFrankel/status/1649096366294024204?s=20),
4/20/23\]  
  
**California Senator Alex Padilla:** “Julie Su is a strong champion for
workers everywhere—and after years of exemplary public service to
California and the nation, she is more than qualified to
lead [@USDOL](https://twitter.com/USDOL). I was honored to introduce her
today to [@HELPCmteDems](https://twitter.com/HELPCmteDems).”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenAlexPadilla/status/1649055275540946947?s=20),
4/20/23\]  
  
**Nevada Senator Catherine Cortez Mastro:** “Julie Su is a fierce ally
for working families, and she’s the kind of leader we need
at [@USDOL](https://twitter.com/USDOL). I look forward to voting to
confirm her nomination soon so she can continue fighting for workers
across the country.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenCortezMasto/status/1649067899909468161?s=20),
4/20/23\]  
  
**California Congressman Mark Takano:** “Confirming
[@JulieSuCA](https://twitter.com/JulieSuCA/) as
[@USDOL](https://twitter.com/USDOL/) Secretary will ensure the American
dream stays alive through her steadfast leadership prioritizing the
protection of workers and working families. It’s time to
[\#ConfirmSu](https://twitter.com/search?q=%23ConfirmSu).”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepMarkTakano/status/1649085175676952576),
4/20/23\]  
  
**California Congressman Ted Lieu**: “Julie Su did a great job as Deputy
Secretary of Labor and her stellar track record will serve her well as
Labor Secretary. She’s a fearless advocate for workers’ rights & fair
labor practices, and has the support of small biz & labor leaders.
Looking forward to her confirmation.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepTedLieu/status/1649071138801106944),
4/20/23\]  
  
**California Congresswoman Linda Sanchez:** “As Deputy Secretary of
Labor, Julie Su has helped oversee a booming economic recovery and the
strongest jobs market in 40 years. She has my full confidence to
lead [@USDOL](https://twitter.com/USDOL), and I urge my Senate
colleagues to confirm her nomination without delay.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepLindaSanchez/status/1649106842042155008?s=20),
4/20/23\]  
  
**Nevada Congresswoman Susie Lee:** “Proud to join leaders from across
the small business, labor, and AAPI communities in
supporting [@JulieSuCA](https://twitter.com/JulieSuCA/)’s historic
nomination to lead [@USDOL](https://twitter.com/USDOL/). Julie has a
proven track record of creating jobs and supporting growth. I look
forward to her swift confirmation.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepSusieLee/status/1649079892015710209),
4/20/23\]  
  
**New Jersey Congressman Donald Norcross:** “Julie Su has dedicated her
life to looking out for those who didn’t have a voice at work. Her
experience & expertise are critical to making the economy work for
everyone.   The Senate recognized this in confirming her as assistant
secretary and must now confirm her as Secretary. The Department of
Labor’s work is critical to the health and safety of America’s working
men and women, and Julie Su is the best person to lead our workforce.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/DonaldNorcross/status/1649087431478775811),
4/20/23\]  
  
**New York Congresswoman Grace Meng:** “I am proud to support my friend,
Julie Su, at her Senate confirmation hearing today for Secretary of
Labor. She has the experience, background and skills to lead
the [@USDOL](https://twitter.com/USDOL/) and ensure all American workers
are protected under the law. \#ConfirmSu”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepGraceMeng/status/1649082097124900864),
4/20/23\]  
  
****<u>Organizations Supporting Julie Su</u>****  
  
**AFL-CIO**: “With Julie Su as Deputy Secretary of Labor,
the [@USDOL ](https://twitter.com/USDOL)has RAPIDLY expanded
apprenticeship opportunities for all Americans, from the trades to
cybersecurity to teacher apprenticeships. These life-changing
opportunities must continue & another reason why
we [\#StandWithSu](https://twitter.com/hashtag/StandWithSu?src=hashtag_click)!”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/AFLCIO/status/1649074102345269253?s=20),
4/20/23\]  
  
**International Brotherhood of Teamsters (IBT):** “In Julie Su’s
confirmation
hearing, [@SenatorBaldwin](https://twitter.com/SenatorBaldwin/) highlights
how Su is an ally for all workers. “Your nomination is supported by
the [\#Teamsters](https://twitter.com/search?q=%23Teamsters) –
representing 340k UPS workers, for whom the largest private sector
employers’ collecting bargaining agreement expires this year.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/Teamsters/status/1649086049786765313),
4/20/23\]  
  
**Mary Kay Henry, President, Service Employees International Union
(SEIU): **“From serving as California’s Labor Secretary during the
pandemic to serving as U.S. Deputy Labor Secretary during our record
economic recovery, Julie Su has demonstrated her commitment to
championing the rights of all working people. That’s why working people
are coming together across racial, occupational and geographical lines
to call on the Senate to quickly confirm Acting Secretary Su as our next
U.S. Secretary of Labor. \[…\] During my time working with Julie Su on
California’s Future of Work Commission, I saw first hand how effective
she is in engaging business leaders and working in partnership to create
a brighter and more equitable future.”
\[[Statement](https://www.seiu.org/2023/04/seius-henry-julie-su-is-the-labor-secretary-our-country-needs-to-continue-on-the-path-to-building-a-more-inclusive-economy),
4/20/23\]  
  
**IBEW: **“Julie Su has dedicated her life to the cause of workers’
rights and good middle-class jobs. I know she will bring the dedication
and passion she has shown throughout her career for working families as
the next Labor
Secretary.” [\#IBEW](https://twitter.com/search?q=%23IBEW) Pres. Kenny
Cooper.” \[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/IBEW/status/1649059311652417536),
4/20/23\]   
  
**Laborers’ International Union of North America (LIUNA)**: “Julie Su
has a proven track record of working across the aisle, sitting down with
the business community as well as organized labor, and delivering strong
results for the American economy.  \#StandWithSu”
\[[Tweet,](https://twitter.com/LIUNA/status/1649075392634933248?s=20) 4/20/23\]  
  
**American Federation of Teachers:** “AFT has long fought for expanded,
high-quality apprenticeship pathways. We value Julie Su’s track record
of working with organized labor & businesses to create job training and
apprenticeship opportunities that help workers pursue careers with
family-sustaining
wages. [\#ConfirmSu](https://twitter.com/hashtag/ConfirmSu?src=hashtag_click)“\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/AFTunion/status/1649097092428709890?s=20),
4/20/23\]   
  
**International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers
(IAM):** “‘Her long record of standing with workers and promoting
economic growth speaks for itself – she gets the work done’ – IAM
Eastern Territory General Vice President @GVPSullivan”
\[Tweet, [4/20/23](https://twitter.com/MachinistsUnion/status/1649050708702789632?s=20)\]  
  
**SMART Union: **“We have dramatically expanded apprenticeships across
the country … these make sure not only job seekers, particularly young
people, get the skilled training they need, but also \[help\] the
employers who are looking for skilled workers. \#1u”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/smartunionworks/status/1649081713375555587),
4/20/23\]  
  
**The Association of Flight Attendants-CWA (AFA-CWA):** “Julie Su is the
most qualified candidate for this office since Frances Perkins. Serving
17 years as a civil rights attorney representing workers who are often
invisible…we need a Labor Sec who has a proven record of fighting for
workers and defending our
rights.” [\#StandwithSu](https://twitter.com/hashtag/StandwithSu?src=hashtag_click).
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/afa_cwa/status/1649058155194613760?s=20),
4/20/23\]  
  
**Iron Workers Union (IW):** “Julie Su is a fierce champion for working
families. She will show up and put in work to continue helping the Biden
Administration’s agenda to grow the American Economy. \#StandWithSu.
Julie Su has a proven track record of working across the aisle and
advocating for organized labor. We know Su will deliver strong results
for the American economy and working people!” \#UnionStrong
\#Ironworkers \#StandWithSu”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/TheIronworkers/status/1649151812853723148?s=20),
04/20/23\]

**Bricklayers & Allied Craftworkers Union (IUBAC):** “Apprenticeships
make sure not only the jobseekers, particularly young people, get the
high
quality [\#skilledtraining](https://twitter.com/search?q=%23skilledtraining) that
they need, but also the employers who are looking
for [\#skilledworkers](https://twitter.com/search?q=%23skilledworkers) to
build roads & bridges that connect people. – Julie
Su [\#ApprenticeshipWorks](https://twitter.com/search?q=%23ApprenticeshipWorks) #1u”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/IUBAC/status/1649073260703764480),
4/20/23\]  
  
**CWA Union: **“The Senate should confirm Julie Su as the next Secretary
of Labor without delay!”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/CWAUnion/status/1649061840452833280),
4/20/23\]  
  
**American Federation of State, County & Municipal Employees
(AFSCME): **“[@AFSCME ](https://twitter.com/AFSCME)President Lee
Saunders: Julie Su’s record and passion for workers’ rights demonstrate
that she is an outstanding choice for Secretary of
Labor. [\#StandWithSu.” \[Tweet,
4/20/23\]](https://twitter.com/hashtag/StandWithSu?src=hashtag_click)  
  
**Liz Shuler, President, AFL-CIO: **“Julie Su will level the playing
field & hold businesses accountable as ⁦‪@USDOL⁩ Secretary of Labor.
Corporations lobbying against her confirmation are scared of how she
defends workers & can’t be bought. Our Senators must stand with working
people & \#StandWithSu!”
\[[Tweet,](https://twitter.com/LizShuler/status/1649047136456130560?s=20) 4/20/23\]  
  
**Edward Kelly, General President, International Association of Fire
Fighters (IAFF):** “Throughout her career, Julie Su has delivered
results for the people she serves – as an attorney, California Labor
Secretary, and Deputy Secretary of [@USDOL](https://twitter.com/USDOL/).
She has always championed fairness, and fairness for workers is pivotal
to the success of our economy and our country.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/IAFFPresident/status/1649066492351369217),
4/20/23\]  
  
**John Samuelsen, International President, Transport Workers Union of
America (TWU):** “Working people deserve leaders in Washington who
recognize our struggles, understand our efforts, and aren’t afraid to
stand with us as we fight against unchecked corporate greed. Deputy
Secretary of Labor Julie Su has proven time and again she is that
leader, and she remains the most qualified candidate to serve as
America’s next Secretary of Labor…. The TWU is proud to endorse Julie Su
for Secretary of Labor and urges swift confirmation by the Senate.”
\[[Statement](https://twu.org/the-twu-proudly-supports-julie-su-for-secretary-of-labor/#:~:text=%E2%80%9CThe%20TWU%20is%20proud%20to%20endorse%20Julie%20Su,Labor%20and%20urges%20swift%20confirmation%20by%20the%20Senate.%E2%80%9D),
04/20/23\]  
  
**Unite Here:** “UNITE HERE stands with Julie Su for DOL Secretary,
encouraging her swift confirmation. In her tenure as Deputy Secretary,
Su has seen through a vision of the most pro-union administration in
decades, prioritizing workers’ issues over the boss’
agendas. [\#StandWithSu](https://twitter.com/hashtag/StandWithSu?src=hashtag_click).”
\[[Twitter
Thread](https://twitter.com/unitehere/status/1649060770590670851),
4/20/23\]  
  
**D. Taylor, President, Unite Here: **“We’re seeing surging illegal
anti-union activities, loosening of child labor regs & other attempts to
roll back workplace protections. The next DOL Secretary must boldly take
on a deck stacked against workers. Julie Su’s experience makes her the
person for the
job. [\#StandWithSu](https://twitter.com/hashtag/StandWithSu?src=hashtag_click).”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/DTaylorUH/status/1649061092008554496?s=20),
4/20/23\]  
  
**AFA-CWA: **“Julie Su is the most qualified candidate for this office
since Frances Perkins. Serving 17 years as a civil rights attorney
representing workers who are often invisible…we need a Labor Sec who has
a proven record of fighting for workers and defending our
rights.” [\#StandwithSu](https://twitter.com/search?q=%23StandwithSu).”\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/afa_cwa/status/1649058155194613760),
4/20/23\]  
  
**Montana Nurses Association: **“At MNA, nurses know that Julie Su is
the right choice to lead the Department of Labor. She is dedicated and
brings the experience necessary to do the job right. Mt workers deserve
a Labor Department Secretary committed to economic growth that benefits
workers. \#ConfirmSu.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/MTnurses/status/1649046901466210307?s=20),
4/20/23\]  
  
**John Arensmeyer, CEO, Small Business Majority**: “After today’s
nomination hearing in the U.S. Senate Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions (HELP) Committee, we are confident in Acting Secretary Su’s
ability to lead the U.S. Department of Labor. As highlighted during
today’s hearing, Julie Su has a proven track record of working with the
business community and organized labor. It’s important to note that her
nomination should not be an argument that pits businesses against
workers. Small businesses and employees often need the same access to
benefits and policy solutions in order to thrive. We know through our
previous work with Su that she understands this, and we believe that as
Secretary of Labor, she will promote and support resources to attract
and retain quality employees and help the business community grow. \[…\]
We believe Su will reinforce and advance the Department’s critical work
by genuinely engaging with the small business community. We urge HELP to
confirm her swiftly and advance her nomination to the full U.S. Senate
for a vote.”
\[[Statement](https://smallbusinessmajority.org/press-release/small-business-group-calls-quick-confirmation-julie-su-labor-secretary),
4/20/23\]  
  
**Small Business for America’s Future:** “The small business community
is pleased with the nomination of Julie Su as Labor Secretary. Her
background as deputy secretary and her support for workers make her an
excellent candidate for the role. \[…\] We urge the U.S. Senate to
swiftly approve her nomination, supporting the growth and success of
small businesses.” \[Statement, 4/19/23\]  
  
**Marcella Medor MarCom, LLC (Butte, MT):** “Small business owners are
the backbone of our nation’s economy, and Julie Su’s track record of
fighting for workers while understanding the needs of small business is
precisely the kind of experience we need. I urge the Senate to support
her confirmation.” \[Statement, 4/19/23\]  
  
**Mas Torito, Kokoro Restaurant (Denver, CO): **“Small businesses thrive
when workers are treated fairly and have access to good jobs. Julie Su
excelled in her role as deputy secretary and her track record of
supporting workers will make her well-suited for the role. We need the
Senate to confirm Julie Su.” \[Statement, 4/19/23\]  
  
**Walt Rowen, Susquehanna Glass (Lancaster, PA): **“Julie Su’s
dedication to supporting workers and fostering a fair and just economy
aligns perfectly with the needs of small businesses. Her experience
enforcing these practices in California demonstrates her ability to
excel as Labor Secretary. Our leaders must put politics aside and
prioritize the well-being of American workers and small businesses by
confirming Su.” \[Statement, 4/19/23\]  
  
**The Leadership Conferenceon Civil and Human Rights: **“Julie Su is
committed to ensuring that all working people are treated with dignity
and are able to enjoy basic protections in the workplace. She possesses
deep expertise in civil rights & workplace rights and is exceedingly
qualified to serve. Let’s get her confirmed. \#ConfirmSu”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/civilrightsorg/status/1649088339545587713),
4/20/23\]  
  
**Asian Pacific American Institute for Congressional Studies
(APAICS):** “APAICS strongly supports acting Secretary of Labor Julie
Su’s nomination to be the next U.S. Secretary of Labor. Su has proven
herself to be a qualified leader, and we urge the Senate to quickly
confirm her. \#ConfirmSu”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/APAICS/status/1649098904733126656?s=20),
4/20/23\]  
  
**NARAL:** “[@JulieSuCA](https://twitter.com/JulieSuCA/), a champion for
working families, is the leader we need as our next Secretary of Labor.
The Senate
must [\#ConfirmSu](https://twitter.com/search?q=%23ConfirmSu).”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/NARAL/status/1649082970332966912),
4/20/23\]  
  
**Futures Without Violence:** “If you care about building an economy
that works for everyone, we urge you to call on your Senators to move
forward with speedy nominations hearings and confirmation process for
Julie Su as Secretary of
Labor. [\#ConfirmSu](https://twitter.com/hashtag/ConfirmSu?src=hashtag_click).”\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/WithoutViolence/status/1649081201917845504),
4/20/23\]  
  
**National Immigration Law Center: **“She’s been a champion for
low-income, immigrant workers from the start of her career, and
continues to fight for dignity and equity on the job. It’s a fact: As
Secretary of Labor, Julie Su will be a champion for all workers.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/NILC/status/1649096841106194433?s=20),
4/20/23\]  
  
**Marielena Hinapie, Former Executive Director, of National Immigration
Law Center:** “Julie Su’s confirmation hearing for Secretary of Labor.
All workers in US need Julie Su’s leadership now!
https://help.senate.gov/hearings/nomination-of-julie-su-to-serve-as-secretary-of-labor.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/MarielenaNILC/status/1649054023943847936?s=20),
4/20/23\]

\###
