---
date: '2023-04-18'
modified_time: 2023-04-18 21:09:46-04:00
published_time: 2023-04-18 20:49:12-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/04/18/what-they-are-saying-leaders-care-givers-advocates-and-more-applaud-president-bidens-executive-order-increasing-access-to-high-quality-care-and-supporting-caregivers/
tags: statements-releases
title: "WHAT THEY ARE SAYING: Leaders, Caregivers, Advocates and More Applaud President\_\
  Biden\u2019s Executive Order Increasing Access to High-Quality Care and Supporting\_\
  Caregivers"
---
 
Today, President Biden Signed an executive order to expand access to
affordable, high-quality care and provide support for care workers and
family caregivers. This executive order, which includes more than 50
directives for agencies across the government, is the most comprehensive
set of executive actions any President has ever taken to make care more
affordable and accessible for hardworking families and further support
care workers and family caregivers.  
  
The President believes investing in care is an investment in the future
of America’s families, workforce, and economy. That is why President
Biden’s economic agenda aims to build the economy from the bottom up and
the middle out by transforming care in this country.  
  
*See below for how congressional leaders, family caregivers, people with
disabilities, long-term care workers, early educators, veterans,
advocates for older Americans, and more responded:*  
  
**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Congressional
Leaders:</span>*  
***  
**Massachusetts Congresswoman and Minority Whip Katherine Clark**: “No
family should be forced to choose between caring for their loved ones
and putting food on the table. No care worker should have to take home
less than a living wage. And no business should lose dedicated employees
because they can’t find care for their family members. Thanks to the
Biden-Harris Administration’s unprecedented executive actions today,
more Americans across the country will enjoy the dignity and financial
security they deserve. Millions of parents, caregivers, educators, and
veterans will have access to the affordable, high-quality care they need
to get by – while our economy will have the foundation it needs to
thrive. Democrats understand that the care economy has always been a
vital piece of our nation’s infrastructure – that care work enables all
other work. Since day one, President Biden has put working families
front and center, and House Democrats will continue to champion
solutions that put people over politics: lower costs for parents,
quality care for kids, and livable wages for care workers.”
\[[Statement](https://democraticwhip.house.gov/newsroom/press-releases/whip-clark-statement-applauding-president-bidens-executive-actions-care),
4/18/23\]

**Washington Senator Patty Murray, Chairwoman, Senate Appropriations
Committee**: “@POTUS’s executive order takes critical steps to help make
child care more affordable & accessible for working families everywhere.
But make no mistake: we still need bold congressional action to fix our
child care crisis—& that’s what I’m working nonstop to do.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/PattyMurray/status/1648381705789604067),
4/18/23\]  
**  
Montana Senator John Tester, Chairman, Senate Veterans’ Affairs
Committee:** “This is great news for our aging and disabled veterans who
deserve and have earned access to quality home-based care. Ensuring
these men and women have access to convenient, long-term care options
after their time in uniform is absolutely critical, and I’m proud to
have pushed the Administration to take action. I’ll keep working to hold
folks in Washington accountable on delivering this needed support now
and in the future.”
\[[Statement](https://www.tester.senate.gov/newsroom/press-releases/biden-administration-to-improve-veterans-access-to-at-home-care-following-tester-efforts/),
4/18/23\]

**Connecticut Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro, Ranking Member, House
Appropriations Committee**: “The rising cost of living is an assault on
working families in the U.S. I applaud President Biden for taking steps
to lower the cost of child care and give care and education workers a
deserved boost in pay.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/rosadelauro/status/1648401475411009536),
4/18/23\]

**Virginia Congressman Bobby Scott, Ranking Member, House Education and
the Workforce Committee:** “It’s obvious to our constituents and it
should be obvious to politicians: we can’t expect people to work unless
we invest in the support they need to care for their loved ones. This is
a vital step that reflects many of my long-standing priorities.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/BobbyScott/status/1648407643189309447),
4/18/23\]

**Congressional Progressive Caucus**: “As the COVID-19 pandemic made
abundantly clear, care workers are essential to our economy and to the
health and wellbeing of all our communities. But for too long, child
care and home care have been unaffordable, inaccessible, and care
workers dramatically undervalued and …\] Today, President Biden
rightfully recognized that well-paid, experienced care workers are
central to ensuring a competitive and fair economy, and that access to
affordable, quality care services are necessary for every family to
thrive. \[…\]”
\[[Statement](https://twitter.com/USProgressives/status/1648380756568293440),
4/18/23\]

**Virginia Senator Tim Kaine**: “Parents are being locked out of the
workforce because they can’t affordable child care. Critical workers who
are passionate about child and long-term care are being forced to leave
their field because they can’t pay their bills. It’s clear from my
conversations with Virginians across the Commonwealth that our care
system is in crisis, and our workers, families, and economies are paying
the price. Today’s announcement is an important step in the right
direction, but more work remains to be done\[…\]” \[Statement, 4/18/23\]

**California Congresswoman Sara Jacobs**: “I’m so grateful the Biden
Administration is expanding access to long-term care and child care,
including for military families, and raising the pay of care workers.
This will be life-changing for so many families.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepSaraJacobs/status/1648357290129408003?s=20),
4/18/23\]

**California Congressman Jared Huffman**: “Everyone deserves access to
affordable, high-quality care. And everyone providing vital care
deserves no less than a solid living wage. The U.S. can’t thrive without
the strong foundation of the care economy. Well done, @POTUS, for taking
these steps.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepHuffman/status/1648374301731479552),
4/18/23\]

**Delaware Congresswoman Lisa Blunt Rochester**: “We know that lack of
access to child care was one of the reasons why nearly 2 million women
left the workforce during the pandemic. I applaud @POTUS’ commitment to
making it more affordable and accessible through this EO – a win-win for
parents and caregivers and our economy.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepLBR/status/1648397189922562048),
4/18/23\]

**Georgia Congresswoman Nikema Williams**: “Increasing access to care
makes our entire economy stronger. Thank you @POTUS for taking action to
improve the care economy. \#CareCantWait”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepNikema/status/1648397616760102924),
4/18/23\]

**Maryland Congressman John Sarbanes:** “I’m pleased that @POTUS is
improving access to long-term care for seniors, home-based care for
veterans and quality childcare for families. This executive order will
help lower costs for families and support care workers and family
caregivers.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepSarbanes/status/1648407045429764097),
4/18/23\]

**New York Congresswoman Grace Meng**: “Thank you to @JoeBiden for
standing with parents and working to make child care cheaper and more
accessible! This is an important step forward, but there are too many
families struggling to make ends meet. We cannot leave anyone behind.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/Grace4NY/status/1648396227321405442?s=20),
4/18/23\]

**New York Congresswoman Yvette Clarke**: “Applauding @POTUS’ bold,
humanitarian action to invest in America’s child care workers. When the
vast majority of care workers are women and women of color, there can be
no debate – this is a cause for racial justice, and I’m proud to see the
Biden Administration fight for it.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepYvetteClarke/status/1648404509545168898),
4/18/23\]

**Ohio Congresswoman Joyce Beatty:** “The shortage of affordable child
care in our country is a crisis. With this executive order, we’re taking
significant steps  toward a permanent child care infrastructure that
respects and values women in the workforce. Thank you, @POTUS! 👏🏾”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepBeatty/status/1648412874799194117),
4/18/23\]

**Oregon Congresswoman Suzanne Bonamici**: “Parents, caregivers,
educators, & veterans deserve access to affordable, high-quality care. I
applaud @POTUS for taking steps to lead an economy with the foundation
it needs to thrive, & I remain committed to fighting for needed
investments in affordable child & long-term care.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepBonamici/status/1648372025642172434),
4/18/23\]

**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Elder Care Leaders</span>  
**  
**AARP:** “AARP applauds today’s Executive Order recognizing the need to
make family caregivers a national priority to meet the rapidly growing
needs of families across America. Family caregivers are the
indispensable backbone of our health and long-term care system, help
their loved ones live at home, and they are exhausted. \[…\] This is a
nonpartisan issue that affects us all, but it does not get nearly the
recognition or support it deserves. Family caregivers are an essential
but often invisible part of almost any care team, who are often in
desperate need of more support. \[…\] Today’s Executive Order is an
important step forward, building on the first-ever National Strategy to
Support Family Caregivers released last fall, the result of years of
bipartisan effort in Congress. We stand ready to work with the
Administration to advance the important policies to support family
caregivers and the long-term workforce. We will continue to work with
bipartisan leaders in Congress to advance legislation that can further
deliver relief to family caregivers such as paid leave, family caregiver
tax credits and other reimbursement programs, and other supports. AARP
has spent decades fighting for family caregivers across the country, and
we won’t stop until their needs are addressed—and their voices are
heard.”
\[[Statement](https://press.aarp.org/04-18-2023-AARP-Applauds-Executive-Order-on-Family-Caregivers-Early-Educators-and-Long-term-Care-Workers),
4/18/2023\]    
  
**AARP Advocates: **“We’re at the White House for an announcement that
will help family caregivers
nationwide!” \[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/AARPadvocates/status/1648405750807425025?s=20),
4/18/2023\]    
  
**Michael Adams, CEO, SAGE USA:** “A beautiful day in the Rose Garden
with @HHS\_ASH as @POTUS signs an executive order increasing support for
direct care workers. Like millions of people living in the U.S., \#LGBTQ
elders rely on care workers as they age; greater funding will help them
keep the resources they need.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/Adams_SAGEUSA/status/1648394103250354176?s=20),
4/18/2023\]    
  
**Ramsey Alwin, President & CEO, National Council on Aging:** “1/ So
excited to witness this moment @WhiteHouse when we start helping our
caregivers, both paid and unpaid. #CareCantWait” \[[Tweet
Thread](https://twitter.com/Ramsey_Alwin/status/1648391150883987457?s=20),
4/18/2023\]    
  
**Jennifer Goldberg, Deputy Director, Justice in Aging:** “ ‘You care
for the people we value the most in the whole world’ -@POTUS talking
about family caregivers and care workers in the Rose Garden
\#CareCantWait #CareEconomy #CareWorkersRecognitionMonth”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/goldberg_ja/status/1648393317887909891?s=20),
4/18/2023\]   
  
**Jo Ann Jenkins, CEO, AARP:** “Family caregivers are an essential part
of almost any care team, working hand-in-hand with the paid direct care
workforce. We must strengthen and support this care team and today’s
Executive Order is an important step forward.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/JoAnn_Jenkins/status/1648402448900300801?s=20),
4/18/2023\]    
  
**Justice in Aging**: “We commend President Biden for his continued
leadership in building a care infrastructure that meets the needs of
older adults. The actions outlined in today’s Executive Order to advance
better home care jobs, provide increased supports for family caregivers,
and improve care in nursing facilities align with Justice in Aging’s
vision for a society that ensures all older adults can age in dignity,”
said Kevin Prindiville, Executive Director of Justice in Aging. “This
Executive Order sends a clear signal that this Administration values
older adults and their caregivers, and we look forward to continuing our
work with the Administration and Congress on building an equitable
long-term care system.” \[Statement, 4/18/2023\]   
  
**Nancy LeaMond, Executive Vice President and Chief Advocacy and
Engagement Officer, AARP: **“Today’s White House Executive Order
recognizes the essential role that family caregivers play in our health
and long-term care system. This is a huge victory building on years of
hard work by advocates and policymakers on both sides of the aisle.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/NancyLeaMond/status/1648324961356992512?s=20),
4/18/2023\]    
  
**Jason Resendez, President & CEO, National Alliance for
Caregiving:** “Incredibly humbled to join @POTUS today for the signing
of an Executive Order that will move our nation closer to valuing
America’s 53 mil caregivers. My family’s caregiver-in-chief, my abuelo,
grew up picking cotton in South Texas so I could be here
today 🥲#CaregivingIntheUS.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/jason_r_DC/status/1648411610245890048?s=20),
4/18/2023\]   
  
**National Alliance for Caregiving**: “The National Alliance for
Caregiving applauds the Biden administration’s efforts to address our
nation’s caregiving crisis by signing 50 executive actions aimed at
strengthening our care infrastructure. The administration’s sweeping
actions will better recognize and support family caregivers in
healthcare settings, expand respite support for America’s 11 million
dementia caregivers, and strengthen mental health supports for the
caregivers of military veterans. In addition, efforts to expand access
to affordable, high-quality childcare and provide support for care
workers represent a bold approach to improving care across the
lifespan. With these actions, the Biden administration is taking
historic steps towards implementation of our nation’s first-ever
National Strategy to Support Family Caregivers and towards addressing
the harsh effects– and inequities – associated with caregiving for
millions of American families. These consequences include worsening
health outcomes, emotional distress, and economic insecurity, especially
among women of color. The National Alliance for Caregiving urges
continued action by the administration and Congress to implement the
National Strategy to Support Family Caregivers and to advance policies
such as paid family and medical leave that can help making caregiving
more sustainable, dignified, and equitable for America’s 53 million
family caregivers.”
\[[Statement](https://www.caregiving.org/national-alliance-for-caregiving-applauds-historic-executive-action-on-caregiving/),
4/18/2023\]    
  
**National Council on Aging:** “(1/2): NCOA’s President and CEO
@Ramsey\_Alwin attended the @WhiteHouse ceremony where @POTUS signed
executive orders that will help caregivers and \#CareWorkers, both paid
and unpaid. \#CareCantWait” \[[Tweet
Thread](https://twitter.com/NCOAging/status/1648400797170819078?s=20),
4/18/2023\]    
  
**Caring Across Generations:** “And with that, a new path is paved for
the future of care in this country. We were so honored to join
@domesticworkers, @SEIU, @NPWF, @NAEYC, @MomsRising and other
\#CareCantWait partners as @POTUS signed his executive order on care.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/CaringAcrossGen/status/1648401933680488452?s=20),
4/18/2023\]  

**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Child Care Leaders</span>  
**  
**Child Care Aware of America:** “The White House today announced more
than 50 executive directives aimed at improving access to and quality of
child care and long-term care in the United States. These sweeping
actions are aimed at increasing the affordability of and access to child
care for families and targeting the compensation for child care
providers. \[…\]This country’s child care infrastructure still requires
robust, permanent investments to succeed. These steps must be met with
Congressional commitments to provide federal funding for child care in
the U.S. to reach its fullest potential.
\[[Statement](https://info.childcareaware.org/media/white-house-announces-executive-actions-promoting-child-care-and-caregiving-economy),
4/18/23\] 

**Sarah Rittling, Executive Director, First Five Years Fund:** “The
president’s message tonight was clear: Congress should prioritize child
care and early learning and send a bill lowering families’ costs to his
desk for signature. President Biden understands that the high cost and
limited supply of child care and pre-K has held working families back
for too long. We have an opportunity to provide relief to parents and
build an early learning system that meets the needs of families,
providers, and our economy.\[…\]The good news is that we have never been
closer to passing strong, federal legislation to fortify America’s child
care and early learning sector. We look forward to continuing to work
with Congress and heed the President’s call this evening to enact these
desperately-needed reforms and investments.”
\[[Statement](https://www.ffyf.org/ffyf-statement-on-child-care-in-state-of-the-union/),
4/18/23\] 

**Michelle Kang, CEO of the National Association for the Education of
Young Children:** “A day when the White House recognizes the valuable
and essential work of early childhood educators is a good day. NAEYC is
grateful for this Administration’s efforts to find every opportunity to
give the child care crisis the attention it so richly deserves and the
solutions it requires – and we look forward to continued work with
Congress to make the investments it so urgently needs.” \[Statement,
4/18/23\]   

**Yasmina Vinci, NHSA Executive Director, National Head Start
Association:** “We are deeply appreciative to see President Biden
doubling-down on the vision laid out in his FY24 budget proposal, which
aims to simultaneously stabilize the Head Start workforce and increase
access for working parents and caregivers. It is commendable that the
President is doing everything in his power to ensure the stability and
ability of Head Start programs to continue providing high-quality
services to our nation’s families and we now look to the 118th Congress
to do everything in their power to move this vision forward. \[…\]”
\[[Statement](https://nhsa.org/press_release/applaud-white-house-executive-order/),
4/18/23\]   
  
**Save the Children Action Network:** ” Great news for the child care
industry! Today, the @WhiteHouse announced an executive order
prioritizing child care and the early educator workforce. This is a big
step toward supporting the caregivers and families across the country!”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SCActionNetwork/status/1648407489715527682),
4/18/23\]   

**Miriam Calderón, Chief Policy Officer at Zero To Three** “We commend
the Biden Administration for its bold leadership and commitment to this
vital issue. There is no denying that our nation’s child care system is
broken and in need of extraordinary efforts to guarantee every baby has
the opportunity to access high-quality child care that will prepare them
to learn and grow. We call on Congress to work with the Administration
to build on these executive actions. A first step is continuing to
support investments that sustain child care supply and lower costs for
families, including the stabilization funding expiring this year, while
working towards enacting comprehensive policies to guarantee access to
high-quality child care and early learning opportunities.”
\[[Statement](https://www.zerotothree.org/news/zero-to-three-applauds-president-bidens-executive-order-to-improve-child-care-system/),
4/18/23\] 

**National Indian Child Care Association:** “Too many families and
individuals struggle to access the affordable, high-quality care they
need.  \[…\] President Biden believes that we must secure significant
new federal investments to transform care in this country. That’s why he
and Vice President Harris called for investments to support
high-quality, affordable child care, preschool, and long-term care in
their fiscal year 2024 budget. While Congress considers those proposals,
the President is taking immediate action to make care more affordable
for American families, support family caregivers, boost compensation and
improve job quality for care workers, and expand care options.”
\[[Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/p/CrLuYXIrF7W/?igshid=OGRjNzg3M2Y=),
4/18/23\] 

**Start Early:** “Start Early applauds @POTUS for taking action to
increase \#childcare access for families and compensation supports for
providers across the country.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/StartEarlyorg/status/1648361106811809792?s=20),
4/18/23\] 

**Start Early:** “Start Early applauds President Biden for taking action
to increase child care access for families and compensation supports for
providers across the country. We call on Congress to expand on this
support for our nation’s youngest learners and those who care for them.”
\[[LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:7054126646584365056),
4/18/23\]   

**Dan Wuori, Senior Director of Early Learning, The Hunt Institute:**
“This afternoon President Biden will sign an executive order including
more than 50 federal actions related to care. One likely result is the
reduction or elimination of child care copayments for families receiving
subsidized care.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/DanWuori/status/1648289610835849216?cxt=HHwWgMCzzeCq898tAAAA),
4/18/23\]   

**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Disability Rights
Leaders</span>  
**  
**Maria Town, President & CEO, American Association of People with
Disabilities:** “For decades, disabled people have fought to live in our
homes and communities, not in institutions. A key element to this fight
is enhancing wages, benefits, and job conditions for direct support
workers who provide the necessary services to ensure community
integration. Individuals in this workforce, who are predominantly
disabled women of color, must often work multiple jobs with no benefits
to make ends meet. \[…\] We urge Congress to pass President Biden’s
budget and to commit to the improved employment, financial security, and
health of our nation through investment in home and community based
services, paid leave, and child care. \[…\]”
\[[Statement](https://www.aapd.com/press-releases/aapd-applauds-biden-harris-executive-order-on-the-care-economy/),
4/18/23\]

**American Association of People with Disabilities:** “Today, the
Biden-Harris Admin announced 50 actions to bolster the care economy! An
Executive Order signed by Pres. Biden this afternoon will increase
access to \#HCBS & childcare, improve jobs for direct support workers, &
support unpaid caregivers.” \[[Tweet
Thread](https://twitter.com/AAPD/status/1648331654824329216?s=20),
4/18/23\]   

**Christopher Banks, President and CEO of the Autism Society of
America**: “Our community-based service system is in crisis. Many
Autistic individuals want to live at home or in their community with
support, but funding has not kept up with the needs of families. We
applaud President Biden’s actions and urge Congress to pass the Better
Care Better Jobs Act to support families with disabilities.”
\[[Statement](https://autismsociety.org/national-statement-autism-society-of-america-applauds-president-bidens-executive-order-to-support-families-with-disabilities/),
4/18/23\]  4/18/23\] 

**HFC (Alzheimer’s Advocacy):** “This is big! Biden’s executive order is
the most comprehensive set of actions on care EVER and will create a
roadmap for federal agencies to drastically improve care programs for
all of us. \#CareCantWait” \[Tweet, 4/18/23\] 

**See Mia Roll, Director of the Disability Justice Initiative, Center
for American Progress:** “Disabled people provide and receive care and
it is essential that we improv the current patchwork system. This new
executive action will help millions of individuals and families.
\#CareCantWait”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SeeMiaRoll/status/1648342614121299969?s=20),
4/18/23\] 

**Autism Society:** “Today, the Autism Society of America joined
President Biden at the White House as he signed an Executive Order to
improve care for working families and support professionals caring for
individuals with disabilities.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/AutismSociety/status/1648397233002258468?s=20),
4/18/23\]   

**The Arc of the United States:** “Today is a BIG day for caregivers,
care workers, and people with disabilities! Today @POTUS announced
comprehensive support to strengthen home-based care, job quality, and
child care. This is a significant step forward for disability rights!”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/TheArcUS/status/1648337503529709568?s=20),
4/18/23\]   

**Little Lobbyist:** “BREAKING NEWS: Today President Biden will sign an
executive order to direct Federal agencies to take steps toward fixing
our country’s broken child care and long term home care system!”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/LittleLobbyists/status/1648282212331290625?cxt=HHwWgoDQuY38798tAAAA),
4/18/23\] 

**National Council on Independent Living**: “Today, NCIL Executive
Director Theo Braddy joined President Biden as he signed an Executive
Order with over 50 directives aimed at increasing support for care
workers and family caregivers. These orders included:

-   Making child care and long-term care more affordable and accessible
    for people with disabilities, older adults, and families;
-   Providing veterans with better access to home-based care;
-   Supporting family caregivers; and
-   Improving the job quality for long-term care workers.

For more information on the Executive Order, see the full Fact Sheet
(<https://bit.ly/3GSKwt5>). NCIL commends the Biden administration for
its commitment to improve care for people with disabilities. We look
forward to continuing to work with this Administration and advocating
for access to consumer controlled personal care programs and home and
community-based services for people with disabilities.” 
\[[Statement](https://advocacymonitor.com/)\] 4/18/23\] 

**New Disabled South:** “The Biden Administration’s executive actions on
care improvement across the nation are a welcome step in the right
direction for disabled Americans and their families, care workers,
veterans, and others in the care economy.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/DisabledSouth/status/1648351497040568323?s=20),
4/18/23\]   

**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Labor Leaders</span>  
**  
**Mary Kay Henry, International President, Service Employees
International Union:** “Today’s announcement is a major win for families
and a testament to the collective power of working people. For more than
a decade, the majority Black, Latina, Indigenous, AAPI, and immigrant
women who power our care workforce have raised their voices to declare
that care can’t wait and inaction is not an option. This executive order
shows that the Biden Administration heard them. \[…\]”
\[[Statement](https://www.seiu.org/2023/04/seius-henry-in-major-win-for-working-families-biden-signs-family-care-executive-order),
4/18/23\]   

**Randi Weingarten, President, American Federation of teachers:** “Every
family has a need for child care, elder care and everything in between.
Yet care is both very expensive and not readily available, and
caregivers rarely secure a living wage or decent working conditions.
That’s why what the Biden-Harris administration did today was so
important. The president recognized the critical work of the caregivers
today in issuing the most comprehensive set of executive actions any
president has ever taken to improve care for hard-working families:
lowering costs for child care, increasing pay and benefits for Head
Start and child care workers, improving working conditions for those
caring for our loved ones in nursing homes, supporting family caregivers
and supporting the rights of people doing this essential work to have
union protections on the job. Families deeply appreciate President
Biden’s family-first agenda as he lifts up the real work of care and
what our kids and communities need.”
\[[Statement](https://www.aft.org/press-release/aft-president-weingarten-celebrates-historic-executive-order-care-work),
4/18/23\]   

**Lee Saunders, President, American Federation of State, County and
Municipal Employees:** “Today, we celebrate a major milestone in our
effort to address the crisis in care and win respect and recognition for
care workers. President Joe Biden’s new executive order will lower care
costs for working families while also investing in the essential workers
who make all other work possible. From expanding home-based care for
veterans to improving access and affordability of child care for tribes
and military families, the Biden administration is leaving no stone
unturned. Improving care is critical to building a strong, thriving
economy. \[…\] It’s high time we dedicated ourselves to transforming
this sector for the betterment of all working people, and we applaud
President Joe Biden for signing this groundbreaking executive order.”
\[[Statement](https://www.afscme.org/press/releases/2023/afscmes-saunders-president-bidens-executive-order-is-a-milestone-in-effort-to-transform-care-work),
4/18/23\]   

**Liz Shuler, President, AFL-CIO:** “Today’s executive order reinforces
why President Biden is leading the most pro-worker administration in our
nation’s history. As working families continue to face rising costs and
fewer options for quality care, these actions come at a critical time.
They will help to address the growing crisis in our care system and give
working families some much-needed relief. \[…\] We can no longer afford
to ignore this crisis, and we are glad the administration has taken
definitive action to tackle this problem head on. We call on lawmakers
in Congress to follow suit and finally make overdue investments in
care.”
\[[Statement](https://aflcio.org/press/releases/afl-cio-applauds-new-executive-actions-care-economy),
4/18/23\]   

**<u>Women’s Community, Care Advocates, and  Other Policy Leaders and
Experts</u>  
**  
**Fatima Goss Graves, President & CEO, National Women’s Law Center:**
“We enthusiastically applaud the Biden Administration for making this
milestone commitment to child care, care for people who are aging or
have a disability, and the families who provide it. Today’s executive
actions are an encouraging sign that we are closer than ever to a
society that truly values the contributions and sacrifices of working
families and caregivers who are vital to our economy. While we commend
the Administration for using every tool available to expand access to
child care and long-term care, it can’t fix these problems alone. We
need Congress to enact policy solutions that will fix the care crisis,
including on child care, paid family and medical leave, and long-term
care, and that will support workers who provide care. For too long,
families have endured crushing financial burdens due to lack of care
options. These same families and care workers are the backbone of our
entire economy. We cannot afford to wait”
\[[Statement](https://nwlc.org/press-release/nwlc-applauds-biden-administrations-executive-actions-on-family-care/),
4/18/23\]   

**National Women’s Law Center:** “We’ve said it before and we’ll say it
again: care justice is racial justice. @POTUS’ actions today help make
care more valued and visible for all, including the Black women and
women of color who represent the majority of today’s care workforce.”
\[[Tweet
Thread](https://twitter.com/nwlc/status/1648409651812225024?cxt=HHwWgMC-yYf2qeAtAAAA),
4/18/23\]   

**Kristen Rowe-Finkbeiner, Executive Director & CEO of MomsRising**:
“The executive order the Biden/Harris administration issued today is
bold, transformative, and badly needed. At a time when millions of
families cannot access or afford the child care, elder care, and/or
disability care we need, these measures will support moms, family
caregivers, care workers, businesses, communities, and our economy. This
Executive Order puts the full weight of our federal government behind
solutions to some of the most debilitating problems of our time. It will
help address the child care crisis that has driven so many moms out of
the workforce. \[…\] Care makes all work possible and holds up our
economy. We applaud the Biden/Harris administration actions today.
\[…\]”
\[[Statement](https://www.momsrising.org/newsroom/americas-moms-families-cheer-historic-bidenharris-administration-executive-order-to-improve),
4/18/23\] 

**MomsRising:** “Today @POTUS will sign an unprecedented set of actions
to make child, aging and disability care more affordable and accessible
for families and to support care workers! This is in no small part due
to the powerful, persistent work of our 1M+ moms and our coalition.
\#CareCantWait”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/MomsRising/status/1648352254229897216?s=20),
4/18/23\] 

**Ai-jen Poo, President of the National Domestic Workers Alliance, and
Jenn Stowe, Executive Director of the National Domestic Workers
Alliance**: “This is a tremendous milestone for families and workers
across the country. This unprecedented slate of executive actions
represents the most comprehensive set of actions any president has ever
taken to improve the care infrastructure and support families and care
workers. We applaud the Biden-Harris Administration’s historic
commitment to addressing the growing demand for affordable, high-quality
care services for our loved ones, while ensuring care workers are
afforded the protections, wages, and dignity they deserve on the job
\[…\] The magnitude of these investments cannot be overstated – the
Administration is leading us to the once-in-a-generation investments
needed to improve the lives of millions, and toward building a more
equitable and sustainable care infrastructure in this country\[…\].”
\[[Statement](https://www.domesticworkers.org/press-releases/national-domestic-workers-alliance-statement-on-the-biden-harris-administrations-historic-executive-actions-to-improve-care-affordability-and-care-jobs/),
4/18/23\]   
  
**Jenn Stowe, Executive Director, National Domestic Workers Alliance:**
“This moment would not have happened without the leadership of domestic
workers, who have fought for years for this kind of transformative
action in a better care future for all of us. A monumental day!”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/JennOStowe/status/1648321821668777984?s=20),
4/18/23\] 

**National Domestic Workers Alliance:** “We all know care jobs should be
good jobs, and care should be accessible and affordable for families.
Today @POTUS and @VP are making history for care.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/domesticworkers/status/1648298365615058945?s=20),
4/18/23\] 

**National Domestic Workers Alliance:** “@POTUS heard us. This Executive
Order is going to change the lives of so many people who will now be
able to go to work knowing their families are taken care of. Care
workers have deserved this and we can’t wait to celebrate with President
Biden later today!”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/domesticworkers/status/1648384340194213888?s=20),
4/18/23\] 

**Hillary Holley, Executive Director of Care in Action**: “In 2022,
voters made it clear that addressing the inequalities and hardships
around the economy was what they wanted from our elected leaders, and
today, the Biden-Harris Administration did just that. This morning, the
White House took yet another historic step toward strengthening our care
economy and ensuring millions of Americans can meet the growing demand
for care for their families and loved ones. President Biden’s Executive
Order will expand affordable care services for families – including
home-based care, child care, and long-term care –  and ensure care
workers and domestic workers – who are disproportionately Black, Latinx,
AAPI, Indigenous, and immigrant women – have access to quality jobs that
afford them the respect and the pay needed to care for themselves and
their families. \[…\] We applaud the Biden Administration for centering
care as a pillar in our society and economy, and for hearing voters when
we say, ‘This is what we need.’ This executive order demonstrates the
type of leadership voters will turn out for in 2024. We were promised
generational change in the infrastructure that supports us all, and
we’re ready to ‘finish the job.’ We can get this done.”
\[[Statement](https://careinaction.us/press/care-in-action-applauds-biden-harris-administration-executive-order-to-improve-care-affordability-and-quality-jobs-for-care-workers/),
4/18/23\]   
  
**Hillary Holley, Executive Director, Care in Action:** “BIG NEWS: In
2022, voters made it clear that addressing the inequalities and
hardships around the economy was what they wanted from our elected
leaders, and today @POTUS and @VP did just that.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/HillaryHolley4/status/1648305291069468672?s=20),
4/18/23\] 

**Ai-jen Poo, Executive Director of Caring Across Generations:**
“Today’s executive order is the largest set of executive actions for
care in history and embodies the transformative policy shift millions
have been demanding for years \[…\]The Biden Administration is doing
everything within their executive power to improve the care economy in
this country because they have heard our calls and seen the growing
power of the care movement across the country. The collective solutions
are all here to ensure care is both valued and visible. Let’s be clear:
Investing in care benefits everyone. It is an economic, practical, and
moral imperative. Our work is far from over, and I look forward to
continuing to work with the Biden Administration on investments for a
strong care infrastructure that will meet the needs of 21st century
families.”
\[[Statement](https://caringacross.org/news/biden-administration-issues-executive-order-with-50-directives-to-federal-agencies-to-support-the-care-economy/),
4/18/23\] 

**Nicole Jorwic, Chief of Advocacy and Campaigns, Caring Across
Generations:** “Excited to be @WhiteHouse with Aging, Care, Disability,
Labor and Biden Administration allies to celebrate the signing of the
Executive Order that will boost and bolster the \#CareEconomy This is a
historic and unprecedented action to recognize that in this country
\#CareCantWait”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/NJorwic/status/1648387106010439692?s=20),
4/18/23\] 

**Caring Across Generations:** “BREAKING: @POTUS just announced an
unprecedented executive order that’s the largest set of actions on care
in history. These actions will affect tens of millions of people and
create a roadmap for change to the way our families and communities are
cared for.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/CaringAcrossGen/status/1648272629143355392?s=20),
4/18/23\] 

**Social Security Works:** “Today, @POTUS is signing an executive order
to expand access to long-term care, including home care. This is a
historic first step towards providing seniors and people with
disabilities the care needed to live in dignity.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SSWorks/status/1648395975059185670?s=20),
4/18/23\] 

**Reshma Saujani, CEO & Founder, Moms First:** “America’s child care
crisis is a threat to women’s workforce participation, the
competitiveness of our businesses and our economic growth. Thank you
@POTUS for announcing the most comprehensive set of actions ever taken
on care and enabling moms to thrive.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/reshmasaujani/status/1648375243784831000?cxt=HHwWsIC-5Z-jmuAtAAAA),
4/18/23\]  

**Moms First:** “It’s good that the President is taking this crisis
seriously. The situation for parents and care workers is dire — we need
everyone in a position of power to act. Thank you, @POTUS. Congress,
it’s your turn next.”
\[[Tweet,](https://twitter.com/MomsFirstUS/status/1648317649242259456?cxt=HHwWgIC8geeKgOAtAAAA)
4/18/23\]  

**Julie Kashen, Director of Women’s Economic Justice at The Century
Foundation:** “President Biden’s Executive Order today on care is
historic: it uses every tool in the administrative toolbox to make
high-quality care more affordable and accessible, as well as support
care workers and family caregivers. The action underscores the
administration’s deep commitment to building a care infrastructure that
has never existed in the United States, but which families of all
backgrounds desperately need. The Biden-Harris administration knows all
too well the limitations of what can be achieved through executive
action in the absence of Congress approving significant new public
investments in care, yet the administration nevertheless worked
tirelessly and developed outside-the-box solutions that will make a
meaningful difference for families and care providers. Now, it’s up to
members of Congress to take the same bold, creative approach to build a
domestic care economy that truly values care and caregivers.”
\[[Statement](https://tcf.org/content/about-tcf/tcfs-julie-kashen-applauds-president-bidens-executive-action-on-child-care/),
4/18/23\]   
  
**Julie Kashen, Director of Women’s Economic Justice and Senior Fellow,
the Century Foundation:** “Woke up celebrating what a great day it is
for people who care about care… (that should really be everybody!) 1/”
\[[Tweet
Thread](https://twitter.com/JulieKashen/status/1648283423088189442?cxt=HHwWhICxpcrC8N8tAAAA),
4/18/23\] 

**The Century Foundation:** “President Biden plans to sign an executive
order today directing federal agencies to find ways to make child care
cheaper and more accessible, and to improve wages and working conditions
for care workers. Thank you @POTUS for insisting that \#CareCantWait”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/TCFdotorg/status/1648371091776192529?s=20),
4/18/23\] 

**Vicki Shabo, Senior Fellow at New America:** “Huge! @POTUS @VP
\#CareEconomy Executive Order is profound official government
recognition of the central role of \#care in our lives, in our country.
It’s a testament to the value of people who do care work every day & the
people who need it.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/VShabo/status/1648313133159809024?s=20),
4/18/23\]   
  
**Vicki Shabo, Senior fellow, New America:** “The symbolism of this
\#CareEconomy Executive Order on the same day as \#TaxDay is pretty
spectacular too. We need to invest more where it matters — our people,
care policies — and need tax fairness to do it.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/VShabo/status/1648319008670875648),
4/18/23\] 

**Building Back Together:** “‘As soon as I got into office, I signed the
American Rescue Plan to help millions of families afford child care.” —
@POTUS The Executive Order he signed today includes 50+ directives to
build on this progress, improve care for hard-working families, and
support care workers!”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/BuildingBack_US/status/1648401119448641540?s=20),
4/18/23\] 

**CAP Action:** “TODAY: Biden is about to sign an executive order to
help families find affordable childcare, senior care, and home care. At
the same time, it will help raise wages for care workers.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/CAPAction/status/1648395127642107904?s=20),
4/18/23\] 

**Care is Essential:** “!! BREAKING: @SEIU Care workers joined @POTUS to
celebrate today’s HISTORIC moment to improve care jobs and to make care
more affordable and accessible to all families! \#UnionsForAll
\#CareIsEssential”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/CareIsEssential/status/1648404383791742979?s=20),
4/18/23\] 

**Center for Community Change:** “Care providers, families and
organizers have worked so hard for years for care work to be recognized
and prioritized. It’s past time that we have a system of care than can
keep care workers in the jobs they love and make care accessible for
every family. \#CareWorkersCantWait”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/communitychange/status/1648355922454904835?s=20),
4/18/23\] 

**Children’s Defense Fund:** “This just in! Biden’s historic executive
order on care today will: Make childcare and aging and disability care
more affordable; Make it easier for caregivers to access federal
programs; Improve access to care for veterans; Ensure care jobs are good
jobs \#CareCantWait”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/ChildDefender/status/1648381130536615948?s=20),
4/18/23\] 

**Children’s Defense Fund:** “Care justice is racial justice. Today
begins the work of making care more valued and visible for all,
including the Black women and women of color who represent the majority
of today’s care workforce. \#CareCantWait”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/ChildDefender/status/1648398263085572110?s=20),
4/18/23\] 

**Center for Law and Social Policy:** “Today the Biden Administration
announced a comprehensive set of executive actions to make high-quality,
affordable child care and long-term care more accessible to families –
including by boosting job quality for care workers and early educators”
\[[Statement](https://www.linkedin.com/posts/center-for-law-and-social-policy_fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-activity-7054144815030005761-GwrL?utm_source=share&utm_medium=member_desktop),
4/18/23\]      
  
**Center for Law and Social Policy**: “Today @POTUS announced a
comprehensive set of executive actions to make high-quality, affordable
child care and long-term care more accessible to families – including by
boosting job quality for care workers and early educators.
\#CareCantWait”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/CLASP_DC/status/1648351942081409025?s=20),
4/18/23\] 

**The Families and Workers Fund:** “We are excited to celebrate the
Executive Order on improving the care economy w/ our grantee partner
@domesticworkers + the community of leaders working to make care jobs
\#goodjobs”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/FamiliesWorkers/status/1648347656899674112?s=20),
4/18/23\] 

**Ford Foundation:** “Care connects all of us, and care work makes all
other work possible. Today’s historic announcement expands access to
care for countless families, and would not be possible without the
leadership of care workers fighting to redefine how America cares.
\#CareCantWait”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/FordFoundation/status/1648334908920590338?s=20),
4/18/23\] 

**Little Lobbyists:** “From the White House – a fact sheet on the
historic executive order @POTUS will sign today to improve care for our
families and support for caregivers &lt;3 Thank you, President Biden,
for understanding that \#CareCantWait and taking action today!”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/LittleLobbyists/status/1648285735471009792?s=20),
4/18/23\] 

**New America:** “Today’s historic executive order on \#care will expand
access to affordable, high-quality care, and provide support for care
workers and family caregivers. \#CareCantWait”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/NewAmerica/status/1648394703195217946?s=20),
4/18/23\] 

**Occupy Democrats:** “BREAKING: President Biden will sign a historic
executive order to boost the ‘care economy’ by expanding access to child
care for families and long-term care for Americans working on federal
projects and requiring that applicants seeking federal job-creating
funds expand healthcare access for their workers. RT TO THANK JOE
BIDEN!”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/OccupyDemocrats/status/1648358841787248641?s=20),
4/18/23\] 

**Progress America:** “Today, @POTUS is taking executive action to make
childcare and home-based care more affordable for millions. What are
Republicans doing? Fighting over which program for working families to
cut.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/Pr0gressAmerica/status/1648377601482801192?s=20),
4/18/23\] 

**Somos Votantes:** “Low-cost childcare and good jobs are two of the
issues that matter most to hardworking Latino voters. Today’s Executive
Order, which promotes these tools and more, shows that when our
comunidad uses our voice, our elected officials LISTEN.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SomosVotantes/status/1648398009615392770?s=20),
4/18/23\] 

**Ady Barkan, Executive Director, Be A Hero:** “Thank you for all your
leadership and vision! This executive order is in direct response to all
our advocacy and organizing to build the care infrastructure we need.
Biden’s support for caregivers & their families via this EO is a huge
step forward.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/AdyBarkan/status/1648390867160276999?s=20),
4/18/23\] 

**Elena Hung, Co-Chair, Health Care Voter:** “As a family caregiver, I
know firsthand the joys and challenges of caring for a loved one.
Thrilled to join @POTUS at the @WhiteHouse today to see him sign this
historic Executive Order. \#CareCantWait \#BFD”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/ElenaHung202/status/1648324675661963264?s=20),
4/18/23\] 

**Jocelyn Frye, President, National Partnership for Women & Families:**
“This morning the Biden administration announced over 50 directives in
an executive order aimed to improve the care economy. These actions
reflect the importance of centering care in our economy.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/jocelyncfrye/status/1648336321902006274?s=20),
4/18/23\] 

**Majid Padellan, Senior Advisor, Really American:** “HUGE NEWS:
President Biden just signed a MAJOR executive order on child care,
improving the lives of Americans by lowering child care costs. It will
also improve access to home care for Veterans, and improve job quality
and benefits for long-term care workers. That’s the stuff that MATTERS.
Thank you, President Biden!”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/mmpadellan/status/1648401229897256964?s=20),
4/18/23\] 

**Mayra Macías, Interim Executive Director, Building Back Together:**
“As the daughter of a home care worker (proud @SEIU member), this gives
me so much hope of what is possible when government leaders & advocates
work together. Thank you Biden-Harris Administration for centering
families, workers & access.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/lachicamayra/status/1648315528925020161?s=20),
4/18/23\] 

**Peter Morley, Co-Founder, Health Care Monthly:** “JUST ANNOUNCED:
President Biden will sign the MOST comprehensive Executive Order EVER
including 50+ directives to nearly every cabinet-level agency to expand
access to affordable, high-quality care, & provide support for care
workers & family caregivers.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/morethanmySLE/status/1648349858028290050?s=20),
4/18/23\] 

**Patrick Gaspard, President & CEO, Center for American Progress:**
“From child care workers to home health aides to family caregivers, care
workers allow parents to work, disabled people to live independently,
and aging Americans to remain in the comfort of their own communities.
But despite the essential role they play in society and the economy,
care workers have long been taken for granted. Care workers, who are
overwhelmingly women and disproportionately women of color, receive
substandard pay and little respect. President Biden’s executive actions
are an important step toward reflecting the value of care workers for
communities across the country and will help expand access to
high-quality child care, reduce costs for struggling families, and
partner with apprenticeship programs, unions, and employers to help care
workers advance their careers, while also protecting the rights of both
caregivers and people receiving care. Biden’s actions today will be a
leap toward dignity for all.”
\[[Statement](https://www.americanprogress.org/press/statement-president-bidens-executive-actions-on-care-work-will-help-millions-lead-healthier-happier-more-prosperous-lives-says-caps-patrick-gaspard/),
4/18/23\]   

**Vicki Shabo, Senior Fellow, New America:** “Huge! @POTUS @VP
\#CareEconomy Executive Order is profound official government
recognition of the central role of \#care in our lives, in our country.
It’s a testament to the value of people who do care work every day & the
people who need it.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/VShabo/status/1648313133159809024?s=20),
4/18/23\] 

**Charles Brown, National President Paralyzed Veterans of America:**
“PVA commends President Biden for signing today’s Executive
Order capitalizing on the importance of America’s care economy – the
hardworking, underpaid, overlooked, in-demand, and often hard-to-find
individuals who provide vital care services to populations unable to
independently support themselves, from disabled veterans and the elderly
to infants. This directive recognizes the dire importance of care
workers, while taking an ALL-government approach with support from
agencies – like the Department of Veterans Affairs, among others – to
improve access to home-based care for Veterans, enhance job quality for
long-term care workers, and support family caregivers. \[…\]”
\[[Statement](https://pva.org/news-and-media-center/recent-news/pva-issues-statement-applauding-executive-order-home-based-care-veterans-long-term-care-workers-family-caregivers/),
4/18/23\]

  
  \###
