---
date: '2023-04-28'
modified_time: 2023-04-28 12:49:15-04:00
published_time: 2023-04-28 12:18:09-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/04/28/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-takes-action-during-second-chance-month-to-strengthen-public-safety-improve-rehabilitation-in-jails-and-prisons-and-support-successful-reentry/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Takes Action During Second Chance\
  \ Month to Strengthen Public Safety, Improve Rehabilitation in Jails and Prisons,\
  \ and Support Successful\_Reentry"
---
 
America is a nation of second chances. Our nation must provide people
who have been incarcerated meaningful opportunities for redemption and
rehabilitation. America was founded on fresh starts, new possibilities,
and the belief that every person deserves to be treated with dignity and
respect. Yet, for people returning home to their communities from jail
or prison, obstacles often stand in the way of turning this promise into
a reality.  
  
Bipartisan elected officials, faith leaders, civil rights advocates, and
law enforcement leaders agree that our criminal justice system can and
should reflect core values that promote safer and stronger communities,
such as tackling the root causes of crime, improving individual and
collective outcomes, and ensuring taxpayer dollars are delivering the
highest degree of public safety and equal justice.  
  
That’s why, today, the Biden-Harris administration is releasing an
evidence-informed, multi-year Alternatives, Rehabilitation, and Reentry
Strategic Plan to strengthen public safety by reducing unnecessary
criminal justice system interactions so police officers can focus on
fighting crime; supporting rehabilitation during incarceration; and
facilitating successful reentry. The plan builds upon President Biden’s
[Safer America
Plan](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/08/01/fact-sheet-president-bidens-safer-america-plan-2/)
– his comprehensive strategy to prevent and combat gun crime and
violence – and outlines more than 100 concrete policy actions to improve
the criminal justice system and strengthen public safety by leveraging
data, research, and proven successful strategies from state and local
governments across the country.  
  
**The Strategic Plan** supports justice-involved persons and promotes
public safety by utilizing a whole-of-government approach through which
the Biden-Harris administration will:

-   Expand access to health care;
-   Secure access to safe and affordable housing;
-   Enhance educational opportunities;
-   Expand access to food and subsistence benefits;
-   Create and enhance job opportunities and access to business capital;
-   Strengthen access to banking and other financial services; and
-   Reduce barriers to the ballot box for eligible persons.

During Second Chance Month, President Biden is also using his authority
under the Constitution to uphold the values of redemption and
rehabilitation by commuting the sentences of 31 fellow Americans who are
serving sentences for non-violent drug offenses. These individuals, who
have been successfully serving sentences on home confinement, have
demonstrated a commitment to rehabilitation, including by securing
employment and advancing their education. Many would have received a
lower sentence if they were charged with the same offense today, due to
changes in the law, including the bipartisan First Step Act.  
Taken together, our collective efforts will move us toward a safer,
stronger, and more just America. To read the full **White House
Alternatives, Rehabilitation, and Reentry Strategic Plan**, [click
here](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/04/The-White-House-Alternatives-Rehabilitation-and-Reentry-Strategic-Plan.pdf).
Its elements, reflecting the current and future work of the federal
government, include:  
  
**Expanding Access to Health Care.** Pursuant to the SUPPORT Act of
2018, on April 17, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS)
announced a [new section 1115 demonstration
opportunity](https://www.cms.gov/newsroom/press-releases/hhs-releases-new-guidance-encourage-states-apply-new-medicaid-reentry-section-1115-demonstration)
to allow Medicaid coverage for select services provided to certain
incarcerated persons in the period shortly before expected release from
jail or prison. For Medicare, in November 2022, CMS issued a [final rule
establishing a special enrollment period for formerly incarcerated
individuals](https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2022/11/03/2022-23407/medicare-program-implementing-certain-provisions-of-the-consolidated-appropriations-act-2021-and)
so they can enroll up to 12 months following their release from a
correctional facility and avoid potential gaps in coverage or late
enrollment penalties. With support from the Office of National Drug
Control Policy, the Drug Enforcement Administration, and the Substance
Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration, the Department of
Justice (DOJ) is working to expand access to medications for opioid use
disorder in federal custody, and in state and local facilities through
federal funding.  
  
**Expanding Access to Safe and Affordable Housing.** The Department of
Housing and Urban Development (HUD) launched a new initiative that will
provide 62 communities, including in rural areas, with $486 million in
grants and 3,300 rental assistance vouchers to implement proven,
cost-effective approaches to solving unsheltered homelessness, including
in rural areas, by connecting people to housing and voluntary supportive
services. The White House Domestic Policy Council and the U.S.
Interagency Council on Homelessness have also announced a state and
local initiative to expedite efforts to shift from criminalizing
homelessness to ensuring housing access. In the coming months, [HUD will
take steps to implement changes in its regulations and
guidance](https://www.hud.gov/press/press_releases_media_advisories/HUD_No_23_083)
to reduce barriers to HUD programs to ensure that applicants with
criminal history records are fairly screened at admission, using
holistic individualized assessments, to avoid unnecessary denials, and
to enhance public safety for all.  
  
**Developing and Amplifying Educational Opportunities. **Beginning on
July 1, 2023, the Department of Education (ED) will implement changes
resulting from a 2020 federal law that could allow an estimated 760,000
persons to become eligible for a Pell Grant through prison education
programs. The Department of Commerce’s (DOC) State Digital Equity
Planning Grant, funded by the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law (BIL), will
provide $60 million to states and Puerto Rico to plan investments in
digital literacy and equity programs for underserved communities,
including current and formerly incarcerated persons.  
  
**Expanding Access to Government-Issued Identification.** The Department
of Transportation, with support from the Department of Homeland Security
(DHS) and DOJ, will engage with the American Association of Motor
Vehicle Administrators, which represents all state licensing agencies,
to survey jurisdictions for a toolkit of best practices for providing
state-issued identification for eligible persons with criminal history
records. The Federal Bureau of Prisons is coordinating with other
federal agencies to support eligible formerly incarcerated individuals
seeking to access the documents they need to obtain a state-issued
identification card, such as working with the Social Security
Administration to extend the timeframe during which incarcerated persons
can request their Social Security Cards from six months prior to release
to one year.  
  
**Expanding Access to Food and Subsistence Benefits.**
[Studies](http://www.law.harvard.edu/programs/olin_center/papers/pdf/Yang_920.pdf)
show that increased access to economic supports is associated with
reduced recidivism for people returning home from jail and prison. The
Department of Agriculture’s Food and Nutrition Service will provide
technical assistance and issue guidance to SNAP state agencies promoting
program flexibilities, including an administrative waiver that allows
them to accept and process SNAP applications before someone is released
from jail or prison. The Department of Health and Human Services’
Administration for Children and Families will take action to improve
Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF), such as refocusing TANF
funds for use on basic assistance, employment and training, and family
strengthening services for parents and their families experiencing the
greatest economic needs. In February 2023, the SSA published a [Notice
of Proposed
Rulemaking](https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2023/02/15/2023-02731/omitting-food-from-in-kind-support-and-maintenance-calculations)
to remove food from the calculation of In-Kind Support and Maintenance
in the Supplemental Security Income (SSI) program. If the rule is
adopted, SSI payments would not be reduced when eligible individuals,
including eligible formerly incarcerated persons, receive food from
family or friends.  
  
**Capping the Cost of Intrastate Calls to and from Jails and Prisons.**
In March 2023, the Federal Communications Commission published a
[proposed rule](https://docs.fcc.gov/public/attachments/FCC-23-19A1.pdf)
that, if finalized, will cap the cost of intrastate calls to and from
people in jails and prisons.  
  
**Expanding Access to Business Capital.** The Small Business
Administration will publish a notice of proposed rulemaking, that, if
adopted, would remove barriers to eligibility for people with criminal
history records who want to start a small business.  
  
**Expanding Federal Job Opportunities.** In 2022, the Biden-Harris
Administration reinvigorated and expanded the Second Chance Fellow
program, and DOJ welcomed two Second Chance Fellows. Building upon this
success, ED will launch its first-ever Second Chance fellowship in FY23.
This summer, the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) will issue final
rules implementing the Fair Chance Act, expanding the positions covered
by the federal government’s “ban the box” policy and establishing new
due process and accountability measures for hiring officials who are
alleged to violate it. OPM will leverage its newly launched Chief
Diversity Officers Executive Council, along with the Chief Human Capital
Officers Council, to help agencies establish tailored work plans,
leadership groups, and metrics for enhancing federal employment
opportunities for qualified workers with criminal history records.   
  
**Creating Good-Quality Jobs.** The Department of Energy (DOE), DOC, and
DOT are encouraging their respective competitive grant recipients, where
appropriate, including those funded by the BIL, the Inflation Reduction
Act, and the CHIPS and Science Act, to employ qualified workers who face
systemic barriers to quality employment, including those with criminal
history records.  
  
**Enhancing National Service.** AmeriCorps will revise its policy to
enable national service participants to request an extension to use
their earned education awards if they were incarcerated and clarify the
limited scope of criminal history precluding participation in national
service programs.  
  
**Expand Access to Banking and Other Financial Services.** To explore
avenues for expanding access to consumer financial products and
services, including for justice-involved persons, the Department of the
Treasury (Treasury) will: outline how recipients may leverage the
American Rescue Plan’s State and Local Fiscal Recovery Fund programs;
convene recipients of its Community Development Financial Institutions
Fund and Minority Deposit Institutions to explore potential paths
through which Treasury can encourage or help expand access to capital
and bank accounts for justice-involved persons; convene relevant
external stakeholders and financial regulators to develop
recommendations on how to improve access; convene a public meeting of
the Financial Literacy and Education Commission in April 2023 to discuss
the challenges justice-involved persons face when trying to access
banking and capital, as well as the implications of lack of credit and
fines and fees; and more.  
  
**Supporting Veterans. **Beginning in 2023, the Department of Veterans
Affairs (VA) will require quarterly VA benefits outreach to incarcerated
veterans in federal and state facilities to augment VA’s Homeless and
Justice-Involved Veteran Outreach Program, ensuring awareness of
available benefits and services. For veterans who are homeless or at
risk of it, VA’s newly launched Legal Services for Veterans Grant
Program will fund legal services to help meet their underlying needs
concerning housing stability, including civil matters and criminal
case-related barriers such as sealing and expunging records.   
  
**Supporting Tribal Members.** Using Tiwahe funding requested in the
FY24 budget, the Department of the Interior’s Bureau of Indian Affairs
will fund Tribal efforts to prevent and reduce Native youth involvement
in the juvenile and adult criminal justice systems by improving Native
youth well-being and educational, health, housing, employment,
childcare, and cultural connection outcomes.  
  
**Encouraging Private Sector Hiring.** DOC will partner with the
Department of Labor (DOL) and external stakeholders later this year to
highlight employers that are excelling at and benefiting from hiring and
retaining justice-impacted individuals and to encourage other employers
to join this effort. Similarly, DOE and DOL will convene a roundtable
later this year to spotlight promising practices and partnerships
between union and trade associations, workforce development programs,
and reentry organizations. SBA will host an event in partnership with
small business owners who have successfully hired people with arrest or
conviction records. DHS will electronically publish general information
on the Transportation Worker Identification Credential (TWIC), necessary
for jobs in secure areas in ports facilities and vessels, to include
guidance on eligibility, including for those with criminal history
records; how to apply for a TWIC; and opportunities to seek redress if a
TWIC is initially denied.  
  
**Addressing harmful and unlawful fines and fees.** This month DOJ
[issued](https://www.justice.gov/opa/press-release/file/1580546/download)
a Dear Colleague Letter for state and local courts and juvenile justice
agencies on common court-imposed fines and fees practices, and cautions
against those practices that may be unlawful, unfairly penalize
individuals who are unable to pay, or otherwise have a discriminatory
effect. DOJ will build a best practices guide highlighting innovative
work by states and court leaders.

**Reduce barriers for eligible voters.** Most people in jail are
eligible to vote, since jails primarily detain people awaiting trial,
who have not been convicted of any crime, or those serving misdemeanor
sentences that do not preclude voting. In May 2022, DOJ
[released](https://www.justice.gov/d9/fieldable-panel-panes/basic-panes/attachments/2022/05/19/voting_with_a_criminal_conviction.pdf)
a guide to state voting rules that apply after criminal convictions
and will provide guidance on state-specific voter rights for
incarcerated persons and promote strategies to reduce barriers for
eligible voters.

**Supporting Sealing and Expungement.** DOJ has requested $15 million in
the President’s FY24 budget to help young people expunge, seal, or
vacate their juvenile records in accordance with state laws and policies
and has clarified that two existing grants can be used to support
similar efforts.  
  
The private sector; state, Tribal, local, and territory governments;
academia; and nonprofit and community groups must also take action to
improve public safety and the criminal justice system. Taken together,
our collective efforts will move us toward a safer, stronger, and more
just America.

\###
