---
date: '2023-04-13'
modified_time: 2023-04-13 12:47:13-04:00
published_time: 2023-04-13 16:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/04/13/president-biden-announces-key-appointments-to-boards-and-commissions-23/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key Appointments to Boards and\_Commissions"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Biden announced his intent to appoint the
following individuals to the President’s Committee on the Arts and the
Humanities:

-   Bruce Cohen, Co-Chair
-   Lady Gaga, Co-Chair
-   Jon Batiste, Member
-   Constance M. Carroll, Member
-   George Clooney, Member
-   Philip J. Deloria, Member
-   M. Angélica Garcia, Member
-   Jennifer Garner, Member
-   Nora Halpern, Member
-   Steve Israel, Member
-   Marta Kauffman, Member
-   Ricky Kirshner, Member
-   Troy Kotsur, Member
-   Katie McGrath, Member
-   Laura Penn, Member
-   Amanda Phingbodhipakkiya, Member
-   Arnold Rampersad, Member
-   Shonda Rhimes, Member
-   Kimberly Richter Shirley, Member
-   Horacio Sierra, Member
-   Anna Deavere Smith, Member
-   Joe Walsh, Member
-   Kerry Washington, Member
-   Pauline Yu, Member

**President’s Committee on the Arts and the Humanities**  
The President’s Committee on the Arts and the Humanities (PCAH) was
founded in 1982 by Executive Order to advise the President on cultural
policy. The First Lady has historically served as Honorary Chair of the
Committee, which is composed of members appointed by the President.
Private committee members include prominent artists, scholars, and
philanthropists who have demonstrated a serious commitment to the arts
and humanities. Public members represent the heads of key federal
agencies with a role in culture, including the Chairs of the National
Endowments for the Arts and the Humanities, the Librarian of Congress,
the Secretary of the Smithsonian, and the Director of the Institute of
Museum and Library Services, among others. PCAH advises the President
and the heads of U.S. cultural agencies on policy, philanthropic and
private sector engagement, and other efforts to enhance federal support
for the arts, humanities, and museum and library services. The PCAH will
also engage the nation’s artists, humanities scholars, and cultural
heritage practitioners to promote excellence in the arts, humanities,
and museum and library services and demonstrate their relevance to the
country’s health, economy, equity, and civic life. Over the past 40
years, PCAH has catalyzed federal programs and played a vital role in
the advancement of arts and humanities education, cultural diplomacy,
and the creative economy.  
  
**Bruce Cohen, Co-Chair**  
Bruce Cohen is an Oscar and Tony-winning, Emmy-nominated producer of
film, theater, television, and live events. He won an Academy Award for
Best Picture for “American Beauty” and earned additional Best Picture
nominations for “Milk” and “Silver Linings Playbook.” He produced both
the feature film and Broadway musical versions of “Big Fish,” won the
Tony for Best Play in 2020 for co-producing Matthew Lopez’ “The
Inheritance,” and was Tony nominated the same year for co-producing
Jeremy O. Harris’ “Slave Play.” In television, he was Emmy nominated for
producing the “83<sup>rd</sup> Annual Academy Awards” and executive
produced “Pushing Daisies” and “Broadway at the White House.”  
  
During the Obama-Biden Administration, Cohen served as the entertainment
industry liaison for Joining Forces, First Lady Michelle Obama and Dr.
Jill Biden’s initiative supporting service men and women and veterans.
With Higher Ground, President Barack Obama and Michelle Obama’s
production company, he is producing “Rustin” for Netflix, directed by
George C. Wolfe, starring Colman Domingo as Bayard Rustin and coming out
later this year. He is a graduate of Yale University and started his
film career as the DGA Trainee on Steven Spielberg’s “The Color Purple.”
He lives in New York City with his husband and daughter.  
  
**Lady Gaga, Co-Chair**  
Stefani Germanotta, known professionally as Lady Gaga, is an
award-winning singer, songwriter, actress, and philanthropist. She has
sold over 170 million records, and has won 13 Grammy Awards, making her
one of the best-selling most awarded female musicians in history. As an
actress, she is known for her roles in “A Star Is Born,” for which she
was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Actress and won for Best
Original Song for “Shallow,” and “American Horror Story: Hotel,” for
which she won a Golden Globe, among others. She’s been recognized with
the Fashion Icon award by the Council of Fashion Designers of America
and has been included on *Forbes’* list of the World’s Most Powerful
Women and *TIME’s* list of the 100 most influential people in the world.
In 2022, Lady Gaga launched Haus Labs, a clean and vegan color cosmetics
line that develops innovative formulas that push the boundaries of clean
makeup.  
  
Lady Gaga is known for her philanthropy and staunch support of LGBTQI+
rights and mental health. She has traveled with President Biden to
support the It’s On Us campaign to combat campus sexual assault, has
worked tirelessly over the years to advocate for equality, and has been
an outspoken champion of mental health awareness. At the beginning of
the pandemic in 2020, she curated a televised concert to benefit the
World Health Organization’s COVID-19 Solidarity Response Fund, helping
raise over $128 million. Alongside her mother Cynthia Germanotta, she
founded and leads Born This Way Foundation, which supports the mental
health of young people and works with them to build a kinder and braver
world. Since its inception, the Foundation has demonstrated the
transformative power of kindness and its impact on mental health through
youth-driven initiatives, research-based programming, and high-level
partnerships.  
  
**Jon Batiste, Member**  
Jon Batiste is one of history’s most brilliant, prolific, and
accomplished musicians. Batiste studied and received both a B.A. and
M.F.A. at the world-renowned Juilliard School in New York City. From
2015 until 2022, Batiste served as the bandleader and musical director
of “The Late Show with Stephen Colbert” on CBS. In 2018, he received a
Grammy nomination for Best American Roots, and in 2020, he received two
Grammy nods for the albums “Chronology of a Dream: Live at the Village
Vanguard” and “MEDITATIONS” (with Cory Wong). In 2020, he won an Academy
Award for Best Original Score for the Disney/Pixar film “Soul,” an honor
he shared with fellow composers Trent Reznor and Atticus Ross. Batiste’s
work on “Soul” also earned him a Golden Globe, a BAFTA, an NAACP Image
Award, and a Critic’s Choice Award. He is the second Black composer in
history, after legendary jazz musician Herbie Hancock, to win an Academy
Award for composition. Batiste’s latest studio album, “We Are,” was
released in March 2021 to overwhelming critical acclaim. Subsequently,
he was nominated for eleven Grammys across seven different categories, a
first in Grammy history. He went on to win five of those Grammys,
including Album of the Year.  
  
**Constance M. Carroll, Member**  
In 2021, Dr. Constance Carroll established and currently serves as the
president of the California Community Colleges Baccalaureate
Association, a nonprofit organization with the mission of providing
assistance and expanding opportunities for California’s 116 community
colleges to offer four-year degrees in selected workforce fields that
now require a bachelor’s degree. Carroll served as Chancellor of the San
Diego Community College District from 2004 to 2021, when she retired. In
addition, she served as president of three community colleges: San Diego
Mesa College, Saddleback College, and Indian Valley Colleges. Carroll
was also Director of Freshman Academic Advising at the University of
Pittsburgh and Associate Dean of the College of Arts and Sciences at the
University of Southern Maine.  
  
Carroll received a B.A. in humanities from Duquesne University, and an
M.A. and Ph.D. from the University of Pittsburgh in Classics (Ancient
Greek and Latin). She earned a Certificate of Proficiency in Hellenic
Studies at Knubly University in Athens, Greece, and attended the Harvard
University Institute for Educational Management. Currently, Carroll
serves on the National Council on the Humanities, which is affiliated
with the National Endowment for the Humanities, having been nominated by
President Obama and confirmed by the U.S. Senate in 2011. She is a
member of the national boards of the Community College Baccalaureate
Association, the College Promise National Advisory Board, and the
Community College Humanities Association.  
  
**George Clooney, Member**  
George Clooney’s achievements as a performer and filmmaker have earned
him two Academy Awards, five Golden Globes including the Cecil B.
DeMille Award, four SAG awards, one BAFTA award, two Critics’ Choice
Awards, an Emmy, four National Board of Review Awards, and the AFI
Lifetime Achievement Award. Films from his production company with Grant
Heslov, Smokehouse Pictures, include Warner Bros’ Academy Award winning
drama “Argo,” “Good Night, and Good Luck,” “The Midnight Sky,” “The
Tender Bar,” and “The Ides of March.” “Ides,” which Clooney starred in,
co-wrote, and directed, received Golden Globe nominations for Best
Director, Best Screenplay, and Best Motion Picture Drama. In addition,
the film received an Academy Award nomination for Best Adapted
Screenplay. He has also starred in films such as “Out of Sight,” “O
Brother, Where Art Thou,” “Syriana,” “Michael Clayton,” “Up in the Air,”
“The Descendants,” “Gravity,” and the “Oceans” trilogy. Before his film
career, Clooney starred in several television series, becoming best
known to TV audiences for his five years on the hit NBC drama “ER.” His
portrayal of Dr. Douglas Ross earned him Golden Globe, SAG, People’s
Choice, and Emmy Award nominations.  
  
Among the many honors received as a result of his humanitarian efforts
was the 2007 Peace Summit Award, 2010 Robert F. Kennedy Ripple of Hope
Award, and he was a Kennedy Center Honoree in 2022. Clooney has produced
three telethons: “The Tribute to Heroes” (post 9/11), “Tsunami Aid: A
Concert of Hope,” and “Hope for Haiti Now,” the latter of which raised a
record 66 million dollars from the public. In August of 2016, Clooney
and his wife, Amal, launched the Clooney Foundation for Justice.  
  
**Philip J. Deloria, Member**  
Philip J. Deloria is the Leverett Saltonstall Professor of History at
Harvard University, where he chairs the Committee on Degrees in History
and Literature. His research and teaching focus on the social, cultural,
and political histories of relations among American Indian peoples and
the United States, as well as the comparative histories of Indigenous
peoples in a global context. He is the author of several books,
including *Playing Indian*, *Indians in Unexpected Places*, *American
Studies: A User’s Guide*, with Alexander Olson, and *Becoming Mary
Sully: Toward an American Indian Abstract*, and is co-editor of *The
Blackwell Companion to American Indian History* (with Neal Salisbury)
and *C.G. Jung and the Sioux Traditions* by Vine Deloria, Jr. (with
Jerome Bernstein).  
  
Deloria received the Ph.D. in American Studies from Yale University in
1994, taught at the University of Colorado, and then, from 2001 to 2017,
at the University of Michigan, before joining the faculty at Harvard in
January 2018. Deloria served for over a decade as a trustee of the
Smithsonian Institution’s National Museum of the American Indian, where
for many years he chaired the Repatriation Committee. He continues to
work toward the return of Native American ancestors and cultural
patrimony and for the flourishing of Indigenous life. Deloria has served
as President of the American Studies Association and the Organization of
American Historians, and will begin serving as President of the Society
of American Historians in May 2023. He is an elected member of the
American Philosophical Society and the American Academy of Arts and
Sciences.  
  
**M. Angélica Garcia, Member**  
Dr. Angélica Garcia is an educational leader who is passionate about
issues of access, equity, and student success in higher education.
Garcia serves as the President of Berkeley City College, which is
recognized as an Hispanic Serving Institution and an Asian American and
Native American Pacific Islander Serving Institution, both proud symbols
of being the community’s college. Unapologetically, she believes
community colleges provide liberatory education experiences that disrupt
the status quo, especially for historically minoritized communities. She
is a Co-Founder and Board Member of COLEGAS, a statewide organization
focused on advocacy and development of Latinx professionals in
California Community Colleges, and has a proven record of equity-minded
leadership. Garcia serves on the Puente Project Advisory Board, the
national LGTBQ Leaders in Higher Education Board, and previously on the
Board of Directors for Higher Education Resource Services.  Appointed by
the Speaker of the Assembly, she served as the Vice Chair for the
Student-Centered Funding Formula Oversight Committee, charged with
reviewing legislation, data, and its impact on the California Community
Colleges. She has been a fellow with the Aspen Presidential Institute,
the National Community College Hispanic Council, and the UC Davis
Wheelhouse Institute, all of which are leadership programs focused on
equitable student outcomes. Garcia is a proud second-generation Latina
and first-generation college graduate, who earned a doctorate in
Educational Leadership at San Francisco State University, a master’s in
social work at San Diego State University, and a Bachelor of Arts in
Liberal and Civic Studies at Saint Mary’s College of California. Garcia
has been appointed to be the Superintendent/President of Santa Rosa
Junior College, effective July 1, 2023.  
  
**Jennifer Garner, Member**  
Award-winning actress Jennifer Garner has enjoyed a successful career at
the top of her field in both film and television and has also taken on
the role of philanthropist and entrepreneur. Garner is known for her
versatility in a wide range of starring-roles in “Alias,” “Dallas Buyers
Club,” “Love Simon,” “Juno,” and more. She recently starred in and
produced the film “YES DAY,” based on the children’s book by Amy Krouse
Rosenthal, which became Netflix’s biggest Kids & Family film release.
She also recently starred in the sci-fi film “The Adam Project “for
Netflix opposite Ryan Reynolds, Mark Ruffalo, and Zoe Saldana, directed
by Shawn Levy. Up next, Garner executive produces and stars in the Apple
TV+ limited series “The Last Thing He Told Me,” based on the eponymous
*New York Times* bestseller, which premieres on April 14th. She most
recently wrapped production on the Netflix comedy feature “Family
Leave,” which she is also producing, and will also star and produce a
sequel to “YES DAY.”  
  
Garner is a Save the Children Trustee and has worked with the
organization for more than a decade. In addition to bringing Save the
Children’s early childhood education programs to her home state of West
Virginia, she has advocated on Capitol Hill and traveled to Arkansas,
California, Kentucky, Mississippi, South Carolina, Tennessee, and
Washington to meet with lawmakers, press, and philanthropists to raise
awareness and funds for the organization. In 2014, Garner joined the
global non-profit’s board of trustees, deepening her commitment to
issues affecting children in America and around the world. In 2017,
Garner co-founded the organic food company Once Upon a Farm with
Cassandra Curtis, Ari Raz, and former Annie’s president John Foraker.
Together the visionaries have grown the company with a goal of providing
children with the best tasting, most nutritious, and highest quality
food utilizing sustainable methods. As a businesswoman, Garner has
worked with major brands including Neutrogena and Capital One, and most
recently joined the Virtue Labs team to amplify and raise awareness
about the unique health and beauty benefits of the company’s premium
hair care line.  
  
**Nora Halpern, Member**  
Art historian, museum director, and curator Nora Halpern has spent her
public and private life advocating for art, artists, and social justice.
Since 2001, she has been a Vice President at Americans for the Arts,
focusing on arts policy convenings and engaging individual thought
leaders to advance the arts and arts education across America. She is
co-founder of Street Scenes: Projects for DC, a public art program that
provides access to the broadest possible audience by utilizing the city
as a gallery space. Raised in New York City, Halpern began her career in
Los Angeles as the Frederick R. Weisman Collections Curator and Founding
Director of Pepperdine University’s Art Museum. She was a Los Angeles
Human Relations Commission member and received the Mayor’s Award of
Merit for Outstanding Volunteer Service.  
  
Halpern has taught and lectured internationally. Among her many
publications is the recent *Putting the Arts to Work: 15 Years of
National Arts Policy Roundtables, 2006-2020.* She has curated numerous
exhibitions, including a Yoko Ono retrospective in Venice, Italy.
Halpern has served on the boards of the Los Angeles Institute of
Contemporary Art, the Santa Monica Museum of Art, ArtTable, PS Arts, and
Scholastic’s Alliance for Young Artists and Writers, among others. She
was appointed to the Arts Commission of the American Academy of Arts and
Sciences in 2021 and was a Biden Arts Policy Committee member. Halpern
received her B.A. and M.A. from UCLA and was awarded a Helena Rubinstein
Fellowship in Curatorial Studies from the Whitney Museum of American
Art’s Independent Study Program.  
  
**Steve Israel, Member**  
Steve Israel served in the U.S. Congress between 2001–2017, including
four years as chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign
Committee from 2011–2015. He left Washington to pursue new passions,
including opening an independent bookstore, Theodore’s Books, in his
historic hometown of Oyster Bay, fulfilling a lifelong dream. He also
directs the nonpartisan Institute of Politics and Global Affairs at the
Jeb S. Brooks School of Public Policy at Cornell University, which
serves as a platform for civic engagement and bipartisan dialogue. He
has published two critically acclaimed satires of Washington: *The
Global War on Morris* and *Big Guns*. He proudly serves on The Library
of Congress Madison Council as well as many other boards of directors.  
  
In Congress, he served on the House Appropriations Committee on
Interior, Environment and Related Agencies, which has jurisdiction on
historic preservation, fine arts, cultural arts, museums, and related
activities. He also served on the Subcommittee on Defense and the House
Armed Services Committee. Israel’s written commentary has appeared in
*The New York Times, The New York Times Book Review, The Atlantic*
magazine*, The Washington Post,* and *The Wall Street Journal*. He
writes a biweekly column in *The Hill,* covering the state or democracy.
He lives with his wife Cara in Oyster Bay, Long Island.  
  
**Marta Kauffman, Member**  
Marta Kauffman is an Emmy and Golden Globe-winning television writer,
producer, director, and showrunner. Kauffman recently finished the
Netflix comedy “Grace and Frankie” starring Jane Fonda and Lily Tomlin.
She may be best known for creating NBC’s long-running hit “Friends” with
David Crane. The iconic series ran for 10 seasons and earned 63 Emmy
nominations, winning Outstanding Comedy Series in 2002. Reruns continue
to delight with “Friends: The Reunion” being a ratings juggernaut. She
and David Crane also created HBO’s “Dream On,” recognized with CableAce
Awards and additional Emmy nominations. The Writers Guild of America
West awarded Kauffman and Crane the 2016 Paddy Chayefsky Laurel Award
for lifetime achievement in television writing. She also earned the 2016
Outstanding Television Writer award at the 23rd annual Austin Film
Festival & Screenwriters Conference as well as the Kieser Humanitas
Award. She recently received an Honorary Doctorate from Brandeis
University. Kauffman’s other credits include “Georgia,” “Five,”
“Veronica’s Closet,” “The Powers That Be,” “Call Me Crazy: A Five Film,”
and the documentary “Seeing Allred.” Kauffman has served on several
Boards of Trustees including CalArts, Oakwood School, The Lung Cancer
Foundation of America, Big Sunday, and IKAR.  
  
**Ricky Kirshner, Member**  
Ricky Kirshner is one of the entertainment industry’s preeminent
producers of televised special events. During his 30-year career, he has
been tasked and entrusted in imagining and implementing many of the
world’s most widely acclaimed and award-winning television specials,
stadium spectaculars, and conventions; producing shows for every major
U.S. network and watched by millions of people. Kirshner’s Executive
Producer credits include The Tony Awards, Super Bowl Half-Time Shows,
The Kennedy Center Honors, Democratic National Conventions, Presidential
Inaugurals/Galas, The Oscars, and many others. Throughout his career,
Kirshner has collaborated with artists and performers across all
disciplines of classical arts, musical and dramatic theater, cinematic
arts, and the music industry, working with major stars as well as up and
coming performers and amateur groups. Kirshner has been recognized by
industry peers for excellence in television, receiving 26 Emmy
Nominations and winning ten Emmy Awards, a Peabody Award, and an Edward
R. Murrow Award. Strongly committed to Arts and Music education in
schools, Kirshner supports internship programs for college students on
his shows. He is also a frequent guest speaker at colleges and
universities, inspiring future generations to pursue careers in
television and performing arts.  
  
**Troy Kotsur, Member**  
Troy Kotsur earned the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor for his
role as Frank, the Deaf  
fisherman father of a hearing daughter who wants to be a singer in
director Sian Heder’s “CODA.” The film also won the Academy Award for
Best Picture and Best Adapted Screenplay. Kotsur is the first Deaf male
actor and only the second Deaf actor overall to win the Oscar, after his
“CODA” co-star Marlee Matin for her role in “Children of a Lesser God.”
Kotsur also earned BAFTA, Critics’ Choice, Gotham, Independent Spirit
and Screen Actors Guild awards, and was nominated for a Golden Globe
Award for his role in “CODA.” Other recent film credits include “Wild
Prairie Rose,” “No Ordinary Hero: The SuperDeafy Movie,” which he also
directed, “Universal Signs,” and “The Number 23.”  
  
In television, Kotsur was most recently seen in the Disney+ series “The
Mandalorian,” for which he created the Tusken sign language, and was
also used in the show’s spinoff series “The Book of Boba Fett.” Other
television roles include “CSI: NY,” “Scrubs,” “Criminal Minds,” “Strong
Medicine,” “Doc,” and “Sue Thomas: F.B. Eye.” A native of Mesa, Arizona,
Kotsur began acting in grade school, with some of his earliest
performances including reenacting “Tom and Jerry” cartoon storylines to
his classmates. He studied theater, film, and television at Gallaudet
University in Washington, DC, and following graduation, toured with the
National Theatre of the Deaf.  
  
**Katie McGrath, Member**  
Katie McGrath is Co-CEO at Bad Robot Productions. She oversees the
company’s corporate culture, communications, and ancillary businesses.
Prior to joining Bad Robot, McGrath was a founding partner at First
Tuesday Media, a political media firm based in Los Angeles. Earlier, she
served as Director of Communications at MTV Networks and as Vice
President at the strategic communications consulting firm Robinson Lerer
Sawyer Miller. McGrath began her professional career in Washington, DC
as a legislative assistant to Senator Edward M. Kennedy (D-MA). She
currently serves on the transition team for Los Angeles Mayor Karen Bass
and the boards of Pro Publica, ARRAY Alliance, and The McGrath Abrams
Family Foundation.  
  
**Laura Penn, Member**  
Laura Penn has been Executive Director of Stage Directors and
Choreographers Society (SDC) since 2008. Under her leadership the
Union’s membership has grown over 100%, a result of her work expanding
SDC’s jurisdictions, leading bold and successful negotiations, and
furthering its Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion initiatives and
political engagement. She serves on the General Board of the Department
for Professional Employees, AFL-CIO (DPE) and is an active member of
DPE’s Arts and Entertainment and Media Industry Coordinating Committee.
She is Co-Chair of the Coalition of Broadway Unions and Guilds, the
first woman to hold a leadership position with this coalition of 18
influential unions representing workers on Broadway. Penn serves on the
Tony Awards Administration Committee and is a Tony Voter. She served as
a panelist for the New York State Council for the Arts, for more than a
decade was a site evaluator for the National Endowment for the Arts, was
Vice President of the League of Resident Theatres, and was two-term
Chair of the Seattle Arts Commission. Recognized with Seattle’s
Distinguished Citizen Medal, she is an advocate for civic dialogue and
public participation and has been dedicated throughout her career to the
idea that artistic excellence and community engagement are intrinsically
connected. Penn previously served as an arts executive for Intiman
Theatre and Seattle Repertory Theatre and began her career at
Washington, DC’s Arena Stage, Living Stage Theatre Company. Penn
currently teaches Labor Relations in the graduate program at the David
Geffen School of Drama at Yale.  
  
**Amanda Phingbodhipakkiya, Member**  
Amanda Phingbodhipakkiya is a multidisciplinary artist, educator, and
community builder based in Brooklyn, New York. Born in Atlanta to Thai
and Indonesian immigrants, her practice spans sculpture, textile,
large-scale murals, participatory installation, and public art
campaigns. Her work examines the unseen labor of women, amplifies AAPI
narratives, and affirms the depth, resilience, and beauty of communities
of color. Phingbodhipakkiya’s art has reclaimed space in museums and
galleries, at protests and rallies, on buildings, highway tunnels,
subway corridors, and on the cover of *TIME* magazine. She has been
artist-in-residence with the NYC Commission on Human Rights and created
art in collaboration with the US Embassy in Thailand. She is a 2023
Jerome Hill Artist Fellow in Visual Arts and is building community
archives of AAPI stories as part of civic practice residencies with the
San Francisco Asian Art Museum and Poster House. Her work has been
acquired by the Victoria and Albert Museum in London, the Museum of the
City of New York, the Museum of Chinese in America, and the Library of
Congress.  
  
**Arnold Rampersad, Member**  
Arnold Rampersad is Sara Hart Kimball Professor Emeritus in the
Humanities at Stanford University. A graduate of Bowling Green State
University, he earned his Ph.D. in English and American Literature at
Harvard. He also taught at the University of Virginia, Rutgers,
Columbia, and Princeton. His books include *The Art and Imagination of
W.E.B. Du Bois*; *The Life of Langston Hughes* (2 vols.); *Days of
Grace: A Memoir*, co-authored with Arthur Ashe; *Jackie Robinson: A
Biography*; and *Ralph Ellison: A Biography.* His edited volumes include
*The Oxford Anthology of African-American Poetry*; *Complete Poems of
Langston Hughes*; and, as co-editor, *Selected Letters of Langston
Hughes.*  
  
From 2003 to 2006 he served as Senior Associate Dean for the Humanities
at Stanford. Winner in 1986 of the National Book Critics Circle Award in
biography and autobiography, he was later a finalist for the Pulitzer
Prize in biography and, in 2007, the National Book Award in non-fiction
prose for his biography of Ralph Ellison. He won fellowships from the
MacArthur Foundation (1991-1996), the J.S. Guggenheim Foundation, the
National Endowment for the Humanities, the Rockefeller Foundation, and
the ACLS. Princeton University awarded him its Howard T. Behrman Medal
for distinction in the Humanities. In 2011, he received the National
Humanities Medal from President Obama at the White House. Harvard
awarded him its Graduate School of Arts and Sciences Medal in 2014. He
holds honorary doctorates from Harvard, Yale, Columbia, and the
University of the West Indies, among other schools. He is a member of
the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and the American Philosophical
Society.  
  
**Shonda Rhimes, Member**  
Shonda Rhimes is an award-winning television creator, producer, and
author, as well as the CEO of the global media company Shondaland.
Rhimes is the first woman to create three television dramas – “Grey’s
Anatomy,” “Private Practice,” and “Scandal” – that have achieved the
100-episode milestone. In 2017, Rhimes shifted the entertainment
industry’s business model when she left network television for an
unprecedented agreement for Shondaland to exclusively produce streaming
content in partnership with Netflix. “Bridgerton,” Shondaland’s first
scripted series with the streamer, has become a worldwide franchise with
seasons one and two of the show holding top spots among English language
programming for Netflix. Rhimes broadened her company’s content
landscape when she launched the culture website Shondaland.com in
partnership with Hearst Digital Media. More recently, she launched
Shondaland Audio in partnership with iHeart Radio to produce podcast
content. She’s a *New York Times* best-selling author for her memoir
*Year of Yes* and has built multi-platform partnerships with such
leading brands as Dove, Masterclass, Microsoft, and Mattel. Rhimes has
been included three times in the *TIME* 100 list of most influential
people and her work has been celebrated with numerous awards including
induction into the Television Academy Hall of Fame.  
  
**Kimberly Richter Shirley, Member**  
Kimberly Richter Shirley is a retired attorney and certified public
accountant whose professional career specialized in providing legal and
financial expertise to not-for-profit organizations and startup
companies. Shirley is a trustee of the Seattle Art Museum, the Tate
Americas Foundation, and the University of Washington Foundation and is
a former trustee of the Pacific Northwest Ballet. She is a member of the
National Gallery of Art Collectors Committee, the Tate North American
Acquisitions Committee, the University of Washington Henry Art Gallery
Advisory Council, and the Wellesley College President’s Advisory
Council. Shirley and her husband Jon live in Medina, Washington and
actively support arts, education, and human service organizations.
Together they are committed collectors of modern and contemporary art
with an emphasis on sculpture. Shirley received her Bachelor of Arts
from Wellesley College and her Juris Doctor from the University of Puget
Sound School of Law.  
  
**Horacio Sierra, Member**  
Horacio Sierra is an educator, journalist, activist, and creative
writer. His research on English and Spanish Renaissance literature has
been funded by the National Endowment for the Humanities, the U.S.
Department of Education, and the University of Texas. As a tenured
English professor at Bowie State University, Maryland’s oldest HBCU, he
has created in-person and online courses such as Graphic Novels, Studies
in Popular Music, Queer Cultural Studies, Shakespeare & Film, and U.S.
Hispanic Literature. The University System of Maryland awarded him their
Excellence in Teaching Award for his commitment to experiential
education.

Sierra’s work as a theatre and literary critic has been published in
*The Miami Herald*, *Comparative Drama*, and *Theater Journal*. His
editorials on topics such as the importance of a humanities education
have been published in *The Washington Post*, *The Hartford Courant*,
and *The Baltimore Sun*. His poems exploring the intersections of
history, geography, and identity have been published in *The William &
Mary Review*, *Saw Palm*, and *Gulf Stream Magazine*. As a Miami native
with strong ties to his family’s Cuban and Spanish heritage, Sierra is
President of the Cuban American Democrats, Director of the Sierra Family
Scholarship, and has provided college application workshops for his alma
mater, Miami Coral Park Senior High. He is also an Executive Board
Member of the South Atlantic Modern Language Association. Sierra earned
his BS from the University of Miami and his PhD from the University of
Florida. He lives in Miami with his husband, Dallas Clay Sierra.  
  
**Anna Deavere Smith, Member**  
Anna Deavere Smith is a writer and actress. She is credited with having
created a new form of theater. Her plays, sometimes called “docudramas,”
focus on contemporary issues from multiple points of view and are
composed from excerpts of hundreds of interviews. Plays, and films based
on them, include “Fires in the Mirror” and “Twilight: Los Angeles,” both
of which dealt with volatile race events in the 1990s; “Let Me Down
Easy,” about the U.S. health care system; and “Notes from the Field,”
which focused on the school-to-prison pipeline. Her work as an actress
on television includes “Inventing Anna,” “The West Wing,” “Nurse
Jackie,” and “Black-ish.” Mainstream movies include “Philadelphia,” “The
American President,” and “Rachel Getting Married.” President Obama
awarded Smith the National Endowment for the Humanities Medal. She was
the 2015 Jefferson Lecturer. She is the recipient of the MacArthur
Fellowship, several Obie awards, two Drama Desk awards, the George Polk
Career Award in Journalism, and the Dean’s Medal from the Stanford
University School of Medicine. She was a runner-up for the Pulitzer
Prize in Drama and nominated for two Tony Awards. She’s a University
Professor at NYU’s Tisch School of the Arts. She has several honorary
doctorate degrees including those from Harvard, Yale, Dartmouth,
University of Pennsylvania, Spelman College, Prairie View University,
Juilliard, and Oxford.  
  
**Joe Walsh, Member**  
Multi-Grammy award winning singer, songwriter and producer, Kennedy
Center Honoree and Rock and Roll Hall of Famer, Joe Walsh has
entertained the masses and captivated his peers for more than five
decades. His classic hits like “Funk \#49,” “Walk Away,” “Life’s Been
Good,” “Rocky Mountain Way,” “Life in the Fast Lane,” “In The City,”
“Ordinary Average Guy,” and “Analog Man” embody his American origin
story, guitar genius, and lyrical wit. Born in Wichita, Kansas and
raised in Ohio and New Jersey, Walsh’s musical journey began with the
Cleveland-based James Gang in 1969, continued with his trio Barnstorm
and then took off with the launch of his 12-album solo career in 1973.
In 1975, Walsh was recruited into the Eagles who would become the
highest selling American band in history and one of the top touring acts
in the world to this day selling out stadiums and arenas into 2023.  
  
Walsh has honorary doctorates in music from Kent State University and
the Berklee College of Music and has been celebrated for his charitable
works in the fields of music education, recovery from addiction and
women’s health and safety. In 2017, Walsh founded VetsAid, an annual
music festival that brings together musicians and audiences of all
backgrounds to raise funds for veterans and their families. A Gold Star
son himself, Walsh brought the festival most recently to his hometown of
Columbus, Ohio with guests Dave Grohl, Nine Inch Nails, and The Black
Keys. He has, to date, disbursed $2.7 million in grants to veterans’
services groups nationwide.  
  
**Kerry Washington, Member**  
Emmy-winning, SAG and Golden Globe-nominated actor, director, and
producer Kerry Washington is a versatile and fearless multi-hyphenate
who has received high acclaim for her work in film, television, and
theater. Washington is a lifelong advocate and activist, dedicated to
using her voice to fight for justice for all communities. She is focused
on building a more equitable democracy and in service of this goal,
founded Influence Change (IC) and the Vision Into Power Cohort. IC is a
strategic initiative that partners with high impact non-profit
organizations to increase voter turnout. The VIP Cohort, launched in
partnership with Movement Voter Fund, provides ten grassroots
organizations with the resources and knowledge to build civic engagement
in their communities through storytelling and collective action.

In 2022, Washington was honored as one of *TIME Magazine*’s 2022 Women
of The Year. She has been involved with many social and political
causes, including her service on President Obama’s Committee on the Arts
and Humanities. She is also Co-Chair of former First Lady Michelle
Obama’s When We All Vote campaign and the Black Voices for Black Justice
Fund, an organization funding Black leaders who are helping to build a
more equitable America. In 2021, Washington and several other industry
leaders co-founded The Roybal School of Film and Television Production,
in partnership with the LAUSD. It is a magnet school aiming to drive
transformational change across the entertainment industry and provides
education and practical training in the arts and sciences of filmmaking
to marginalized communities.  
  
**Pauline Yu, Member**  
Pauline Yu is President Emerita of the American Council of Learned
Societies (ACLS), a non-profit federation of 79 scholarly organizations
which she led for sixteen years. ACLS has been the preeminent
representative of American scholarship in the humanities and
interpretive social sciences since 1919 and has provided competitive
fellowships and grants to individual scholars in those fields since
1926. Yu was previously dean of humanities at the University of
California, Los Angeles for ten years, founding chair of the Department
of East Asian Languages and Literatures at the University of California,
Irvine, and professor at Columbia University and the University of
Minnesota. She received her B.A. in History and Literature from Harvard
University, her M.A. and Ph.D. in Comparative Literature from Stanford
University, and holds five honorary degrees. In 2021, she received the
award for Distinguished Service to the Profession from the Association
of Departments of Foreign Languages of the Modern Language
Association.  
  
Yu has been elected to membership in two honorary societies, the
American Philosophical Society and the American Academy of Arts and
Sciences. She serves on the Academy’s board of directors and is also a
trustee of the Institute for Advanced Study. In addition, she is a
member of the board of several philanthropic organizations, including
The Henry Luce Foundation and The Teagle Foundation. She is the author
or editor of five books and has published widely on topics in Chinese
poetry, comparative literature, and the humanities.

\###
