---
date: '2023-04-13'
modified_time: 2023-04-13 14:32:15-04:00
published_time: 2023-04-13 10:24:07-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/04/13/fact-sheet-fact-sheet-president-biden-announces-plan-to-expand-health-coverage-to-daca-recipients/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Fact Sheet: President\_Biden Announces Plan to Expand Health Coverage\
  \ to DACA\_Recipients"
---
 
In 2012, President Obama and then Vice President Biden announced
the [Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA)
program](https://www.uscis.gov/DACA) to allow young people to live and
work in the only country they know as home.  Over the last decade, DACA
has brought stability, possibility, and progress to more than 800,000
Dreamers.   
  
President Biden believes that DACA recipients strengthen our economy and
enrich our workplaces, our schools and communities, and our country as a
whole. That’s why on his first day in office, he called on Congress to
give Dreamers a pathway to citizenship and he has repeated that call
every State of the Union address since. While Congress has failed to
act, the Biden-Harris Administration has taken significant measures to
protect Dreamers. This includes, issuing regulations by the
Department of Homeland Security to “[preserve and
fortify](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/01/20/preserving-and-fortifying-deferred-action-for-childhood-arrivals-daca/)”
DACA and fighting political opponents in court as they attempt to strip
them of the only home they have ever known.  
  
The Biden-Harris Administration is committed to providing Dreamers the
opportunities and support they need succeed. Today President Biden
is [announcing ](https://twitter.com/POTUS/status/1646514773042032640) a
plan to expand health coverage for DACA recipients. The Department of
Health and Human Services will shortly propose a rule amending the
definition of “lawful presence,” for purposes of Medicaid and Affordable
Care Act coverage, to include DACA recipients. We recognize that every
day counts, and we expect to get the proposed rule done by the end of
the month. If finalized, the rule will make DACA recipients eligible for
these programs for the first time.  Under the proposed rule, DACA
recipients will be able to apply for coverage through the Health
Insurance Marketplace, where they may qualify for financial assistance
based on income, and through their state Medicaid agency.  Like all
other enrollees, eligibility information will be verified electronically
when individuals apply for coverage.  
  
President Biden and Vice President Harris believe that health care
should be a right, not a privilege. Together, they promised to protect
and strengthen the ACA and Medicaid, lowering costs and expanding
coverage so that every American has the peace of mind that health
insurance brings.  The President’s announcement gives DACA recipients
that same opportunity, as the Administration continues to urge Congress
to provide a pathway to citizenship to Dreamers, providing them the
ultimate peace of mind they need and deserve.    
  
While we wait for Congress to act, and although there are some
restrictions on the availability of benefits for DACA recipients, DACA
recipients should take note of the numerous Federal programs,
opportunities, and resources that have been and continue to be available
to them:

**Experiential Learning, National Service, and Employment
Opportunities:**

-   **AmeriCorps VISTA Program**. DACA recipients are eligible to serve
    in the [AmeriCorps VISTA
    program](https://americorps.gov/serve/fit-finder/americorps-vista),
    which provides participants with an opportunity to assist local
    organizations in alleviating poverty. Participants serve in a
    full-time position for one year and earn related benefits such as a
    living allowance, professional development and training, and a cash
    stipend.\[1\] Find a VISTA service
    opportunity [here](https://my.americorps.gov/mp/listing/publicRequestSearch.do;jsessionid=4KjePF81-wusjXybwj85azv0AU-s58bxQipTxFWFOhIaiUGyMJHE!1529950213).  
     
-   **Outdoor Programs**. DACA recipients have access to a range of
    outdoor programming, environmental education, and volunteer service
    programs in their communities and across the country. These
    include [Every Kid
    Outdoors](https://everykidoutdoors.gov/index.htm), the [Scout Ranger
    Program](https://www.nps.gov/subjects/youthprograms/scout-ranger.htm),
    and the [Healthy Parks, Healthy
    People](https://www.nps.gov/orgs/1078/index.htm) program as well as
    the YMCA-National Parks Service partnership, including the [Bringing
    Youth Outdoors Together Summer Camp
    Program](https://www.nps.gov/subjects/youthprograms/ymca-partnership-program.htm).  
     
-   **American Job Centers**. DACA recipients with work authorization
    can access many programs within [American Job
    Centers](https://www.benefits.gov/benefit/87), which help job
    seekers obtain employment and training to further their careers.
    American Job Centers provide counseling, skill and ability
    assessments, and advice on in-demand jobs and potential training
    opportunities. Locate an American Job
    Center [here](https://www.careeronestop.org/LocalHelp/service-locator.aspx).  
     
-   **Job Corps**. DACA recipients with work authorization may qualify
    for [Job Corps,](https://www.jobcorps.gov/) a no-cost education and
    vocational training program administered by the U.S. Department of
    Labor, which helps individuals ages 16-24 improve the quality of
    their lives by empowering them to secure good jobs and become
    independent. Job Corps students have access to room and board while
    they learn skills in specific training areas. Learn more about Job
    Corps [here](https://www.jobcorps.gov/recruiting/enrollment-interest).  
     
-   **YouthBuild**. DACA recipients with work authorization may qualify
    for [YouthBuild](https://www.dol.gov/agencies/eta/youth/youthbuild),
    a pre-apprenticeship program for certain individuals ages 16-24. At
    YouthBuild’s 275 locations across the country, participants learn
    vocational skills in construction and other in-demand
    industries—including health care, information technology, and
    hospitality—while also earning their high school or equivalent
    degree, preparing them for opportunities such as college, Registered
    Apprenticeships, and employment. Information on YouthBuild
    is [here](https://youthbuild.org/our-programs/).  
     
-   **National Farmworker Jobs Program**. DACA recipients with work
    authorization who are engaged in agricultural work may benefit from
    the [National Farmworker Jobs Program
    (NFJP)](https://www.dol.gov/agencies/eta/agriculture), which offers
    services for migrant and seasonal farmworkers and certain family
    members within the network of [American Job
    Centers](https://www.benefits.gov/benefit/87). Career Services and
    Training grants can help farmworkers gain skills, advance in
    agricultural jobs, or find employment in new industries. Housing
    grants assist farmworkers in finding safe and sanitary permanent or
    temporary housing. Access NFJP
    resources [here](https://www.dol.gov/agencies/eta/agriculture).  
     
-   **ARP Good Jobs Challenge**. The Economic Development
    Administration’s [American Rescue Plan: Good Jobs
    Challenge](https://eda.gov/arpa/good-jobs-challenge/) within the
    U.S. Department of Commerce is an investment in high-quality,
    locally led workforce systems to expand career opportunities and
    good-paying jobs for American workers, including DACA recipients, to
    achieve economic mobility and security. Awards under the Good Jobs
    Challenge have been granted to diverse worker-centered training
    partnerships and systems across the country spanning 31 states and
    Puerto Rico. The program also focuses on removing systemic barriers
    to employment through support services such as childcare,
    transportation, and paid on-the-job training opportunities. Access
    Good Job Challenge
    resources [here](https://eda.gov/arpa/good-jobs-challenge/).  
     
-   **Dept. of Education Resources**. The Department of Education has
    a [Resource
    Guide](https://www2.ed.gov/about/overview/focus/supporting-undocumented-youth.pdf) for
    schools, colleges, and teachers to support the to support the
    educational and career success of DACA recipients in secondary and
    postsecondary education, as well as comprehensive educational
    resources for DACA students
    available [here](https://www2.ed.gov/about/overview/focus/immigration-resources.html).

**Assistance with Renting or Purchasing a Home:**

-   **FHA Financing**. DACA recipients are eligible to apply
    for [Federal Housing Administration (FHA) insured
    financing](https://www.hud.gov/buying/loans) for FHA Title II Single
    Family forward mortgage programs. FHA programs insure private loans
    made by FHA-approved lenders and FHA-backed loans can help reduce
    down payments for a home or condominium.  
     
-   **Housing, Rental, and Credit Counseling Services**. DACA recipients
    can receive [free or low-cost
    advice](https://www.hud.gov/counseling) on buying a home, renting,
    preventing default, avoiding mortgage default and foreclosure,
    transitioning from homelessness, budgeting or through HUD-approved
    housing counseling agencies. Locate a HUD-approved housing
    counseling
    agency [here](https://hudgov-answers.force.com/housingcounseling/s/?language=en_US) or
    by calling 800-569-4287. Services are available in many languages,
    including Spanish, Korean, Portuguese, and Mandarin Chinese.

**Tax Credits, Financial Education and Consumer Protection:**

-   **Tax Credits**. DACA recipients may be eligible for tax credits,
    including the [Child Tax
    Credit](https://www.irs.gov/credits-deductions/individuals/child-tax-credit), [Earned
    Income Tax
    Credit](https://www.irs.gov/credits-deductions/individuals/earned-income-tax-credit-eitc),
    and other child care, and education tax credits. The Internal
    Revenue Service (IRS) also provides in-depth tax information for
    immigrants including an [immigrant tax
    guide](https://www.irs.gov/pub/irs-pdf/p519.pdf), and a [residency
    and tax law
    overview](https://www.irs.gov/individuals/international-taxpayers/introduction-to-residency-under-us-tax-law).  
     
-   **CFPB Resources**. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB)
    provides detailed, targeted [consumer
    tools](https://www.consumerfinance.gov/consumer-tools/), financial
    education resources
    in [Arabic](https://www.consumerfinance.gov/language/ar/), [Chinese](https://www.consumerfinance.gov/language/zh/), [Korean](https://www.consumerfinance.gov/language/ko/), [Russian](https://www.consumerfinance.gov/language/ru/), [Spanish](https://www.consumerfinance.gov/es/), [Tagalog](https://www.consumerfinance.gov/language/tl/),
     [Vietnamese](https://www.consumerfinance.gov/language/vi/), and
    plain
    language [publications](https://pueblo.gpo.gov/CFPBPubs/CFPBPubs.php) to
    assist all individuals, including DACA recipients, in making
    informed financial decisions. CFPB can help answer hundreds of
    financial [questions](https://www.consumerfinance.gov/ask-cfpb/) including
    questions on loans, credit, bank accounts, debt collection, and
    more.  
     
-   **Consumer Complaints**. Consumers, regardless of immigration
    status, may submit
    a [complaint](https://www.consumerfinance.gov/complaint/) through
    CFPB about financial products and services offered by companies,
    including checking and savings accounts, credit cards, debt
    collection and settlement, money transfers, virtual currency and
    more. Most companies respond within 15 days. Complaints can be
    submitted [online](https://www.consumerfinance.gov/complaint/) or by
    phone and interpreting services are available by phone in 180
    languages.  
     
-   **CFPB Immigrant Initiative**. CFPB recently-launched an [engagement
    and policy
    initiative](https://www.consumerfinance.gov/about-us/blog/identifying-and-addressing-the-financial-needs-of-immigrants/) aimed
    at using the Bureau’s tools and authorities to support immigrant
    families in accessing opportunities to build wealth and contribute
    to their communities. If you or your family have an experience to
    share about financial barriers faced by immigrants, please [share
    your
    story](https://story.consumerfinance.gov/tell-your-story/s/tell-your-story?_gl=1*fqsbl7*_ga*ODk3OTU5NjQ0LjE2ODA2MTUwNjA.*_ga_DBYJL30CHS*MTY4MDYxNTA2MC4xLjEuMTY4MDYxNTI5NS4wLjAuMA).
-   **FTC Consumer Alerts**. All individuals can monitor current and
    past consumer scams through the Federal Trade Commission’s Consumer
    Alerts system. Sign
    up [here](https://public.govdelivery.com/accounts/USFTCCONSUMER/subscriber/new?topic_id=USFTCCONSUMER_8) to
    receive alerts about the latest scams FTC has identified.

**Health and Well-Being:**

-   **HRSA Health Centers**. DACA recipients can access health care
    through Health Resources & Services Administration (HRSA) [Health
    Centers,](https://gcc02.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.hrsa.gov%2Fget-health-care&data=05%7C01%7CAndres.Arguello%40hhs.gov%7C51e6cecb890b4a8de18f08db38709d7a%7Cd58addea50534a808499ba4d944910df%7C0%7C0%7C638165828595258175%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C3000%7C%7C%7C&sdata=lth5ozgVMdHCW2JWJoZI3Gku3BeUjyqDGzp9J6eoh1o%3D&reserved=0) which
    provide affordable, accessible, quality primary health care to
    patients regardless of ability to pay, insurance status, or
    immigration status. HRSA Health Centers are located in every state,
    the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, and
    the Pacific Basin. Locate a Health
    Center [here](https://gcc02.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Ffindahealthcenter.hrsa.gov%2F&data=05%7C01%7CAndres.Arguello%40hhs.gov%7C51e6cecb890b4a8de18f08db38709d7a%7Cd58addea50534a808499ba4d944910df%7C0%7C0%7C638165828595414871%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C3000%7C%7C%7C&sdata=iBXH9RLR8dbf%2FgFr4ka0cMKRhhFva051K96uQ6ydpNU%3D&reserved=0).  
     
-   **Emergency Medicaid**. DACA recipients may be eligible for
    emergency Medicaid. Emergency Medicaid pays for emergency medical
    treatment for people who meet Medicaid eligibility requirements in
    their state, but do not meet [Medicaid’s citizenship and immigration
    status
    requirements](https://gcc02.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fmarketplace.cms.gov%2Ftechnical-assistance-resources%2Fimmigrant-eligibility-marketplace-medicaid-chip.pdf&data=05%7C01%7CKyla.Ellis%40cms.hhs.gov%7C023673e3a880491ea43308db396a5134%7Cfbdcedc170a9414bbfa5c3063fc3395e%7C0%7C0%7C638166901021133352%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C3000%7C%7C%7C&sdata=dIn%2FyWXK11Ihuyvs3A3fVqTF2QntYRw4qgIWNkFYHZ0%3D&reserved=0).   
     
-   **Public Health Programs.** DACA recipients can also access public
    health programs that provide
    certain [immunizations](https://gcc02.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.hhs.gov%2Fimmunization%2Fget-vaccinated%2Findex.html&data=05%7C01%7CAndres.Arguello%40hhs.gov%7C51e6cecb890b4a8de18f08db38709d7a%7Cd58addea50534a808499ba4d944910df%7C0%7C0%7C638165828595414871%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C3000%7C%7C%7C&sdata=Hlb3qKhwQO0KnKUlg4O5xYsyFFxVCOQCtGc2jhHV%2FXw%3D&reserved=0) or
    treatment of communicable diseases.  
     
-   **Pregnancy and Breastfeeding
    Support**. [MotherToBaby](https://gcc02.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fmothertobaby.org%2F&data=05%7C01%7CAndres.Arguello%40hhs.gov%7C51e6cecb890b4a8de18f08db38709d7a%7Cd58addea50534a808499ba4d944910df%7C0%7C0%7C638165828595414871%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C3000%7C%7C%7C&sdata=TDLMbNNoEKtux4Z7Lm8Sj99hcopqmvCWcmkelbyMpMg%3D&reserved=0),
    a program funded by HRSA, provides expert, confidential, and no-cost
    information about the impact of medications, drugs, or other
    exposures during pregnancy and breastfeeding. DACA recipients and
    their families can access these services, which are provided in
    English and Spanish, through the
    organization’s [website](https://gcc02.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fmothertobaby.org%2F&data=05%7C01%7CAndres.Arguello%40hhs.gov%7C51e6cecb890b4a8de18f08db38709d7a%7Cd58addea50534a808499ba4d944910df%7C0%7C0%7C638165828595414871%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C3000%7C%7C%7C&sdata=TDLMbNNoEKtux4Z7Lm8Sj99hcopqmvCWcmkelbyMpMg%3D&reserved=0),
    by calling 866-626-6847, or texting 855-999-3525.  
     
-   **Maternal Mental Health Support**. The [National Maternal Mental
    Health
    Hotline](https://gcc02.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fmchb.hrsa.gov%2Fnational-maternal-mental-health-hotline&data=05%7C01%7CAndres.Arguello%40hhs.gov%7C51e6cecb890b4a8de18f08db38709d7a%7Cd58addea50534a808499ba4d944910df%7C0%7C0%7C638165828595414871%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C3000%7C%7C%7C&sdata=NAyyC6BCg%2FbNKHXL01Z4LLvir%2B4tkALh3GMX67KoGaA%3D&reserved=0) (1-833-943-5746)
    provides free, confidential, 24/7 emotional support, resources, and
    counseling referrals to pregnant and postpartum individuals facing
    mental health challenges, and their loved ones. Support is available
    over the phone and text in English and Spanish. Interpreter services
    are available in 60 additional languages and a relay service is
    available for people who are deaf or hard-of-hearing.  
     
-   **Special Health Needs**. [Family-to-Family Health Information
    Centers](https://gcc02.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Ffamilyvoices.org%2F&data=05%7C01%7CAndres.Arguello%40hhs.gov%7C51e6cecb890b4a8de18f08db38709d7a%7Cd58addea50534a808499ba4d944910df%7C0%7C0%7C638165828595414871%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C3000%7C%7C%7C&sdata=gvw5E%2BwF04scTd3iug%2Bq0chCYWZutDiiCPBBMnxC94Y%3D&reserved=0) (F2F
    HICs) are located in all 50 States and U.S. territories and provide
    support, information, resources, and training for families of
    children and youth with special health care needs, including on
    specific health issues, family-centered care, and shared decision
    making (SDM). Find an F2F center in your
    area [here](https://gcc02.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Ffamilyvoices.org%2Faffiliates%2F&data=05%7C01%7CAndres.Arguello%40hhs.gov%7C51e6cecb890b4a8de18f08db38709d7a%7Cd58addea50534a808499ba4d944910df%7C0%7C0%7C638165828595414871%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C3000%7C%7C%7C&sdata=ThuyA5SgEP%2Fo5ENwurWWnmGJCqtEwrgfDHIRvXWgqgE%3D&reserved=0).  
     
-   **Nutrition Assistance**. The Special Supplemental Nutrition Program
    for Women, Infants and Children (WIC) provides pregnant, postpartum
    and breastfeeding individuals, as well as infants and children under
    5, with food, nutrition and breastfeeding education, and referrals
    to health and social services. Eligibility is determined by
    categorical, residential, income, and nutrition risk requirements.
    Learn how to apply for
    WIC [here](https://www.fns.usda.gov/wic/wic-how-apply) or by calling
    a state, toll-free number
    found [here](https://www.fns.usda.gov/wic/toll-free-numbers-wic-state-agencies).

**Military Veterans and Active-Duty Servicemember Resources:**

-   **Veterans Benefits**.  The Department of Veterans Affairs provides
    benefits and
    other [assistance](https://www.defense.gov/Help-Center/) to all
    eligible Veterans regardless of their immigration status. More
    information for Veterans, their families, caregivers, and survivors
    is available [here](https://www.va.gov/service-member-benefits/) or
    can be accessed by calling 1-800-MyVA411 (1800-698-2411) which is
    available 24 hours a day, 365 days a year.  
     
-   **Free Legal Assistance**. All active-duty military personnel and
    their dependents, as well as certain Reserve and National Guard
    Soldiers and retirees, are eligible for free legal assistance,
    including immigration and naturalization legal services. More
    information on Air Force Legal Assistance is
    available [here](https://aflegalassistance.law.af.mil/lass/lass.html),
    Army Legal
    Assistance [here](https://myarmybenefits.us.army.mil/Benefit-Library/Federal-Benefits/Legal-Assistance-Services),
    Navy and Marine Legal
    Services [here](https://www.jag.navy.mil/legal_services.htm), and
    Coast Guard Legal
    Services [here](https://www.dcms.uscg.mil/ppc/legal/).

\###
