---
date: '2023-04-06'
published_time: 2023-04-06 19:19:07-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/04/06/background-press-call-by-senior-administration-officials-previewing-the-vice-presidents-trip-to-dalton-georgia/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Background Press Call by Senior Administration Officials Previewing the Vice\
  \ President\u2019s Trip to Dalton,\_Georgia"
---
 
*Via Teleconference*

MODERATOR:  Hi, everyone.  This is \[Moderator\] from the Vice
President’s Office.  Thank you so much for joining today’s call, where
we will preview a historic announcement that the Vice President will be
making tomorrow in Dalton, Georgia, as part of the Biden-Harris
administration’s Investing in America tour.   
  
Today we’re joined by \[senior administration official\] and \[senior
administration official\].   
  
The call will be on background, attributed to “senior administration
officials.”  Afterwards, there will be a Q&A on tomorrow’s
announcements, which will also be on background, attributed to “senior
administration officials.”  All of the contents of this call will be
under embargo until tomorrow, April 6th, at five o’clock a.m.   
  
With that, I will turn the call over to \[senior administration
official\].  \[Senior administration official\].  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Hi, everybody.  So tomorrow, the Vice
President will travel of Dalton, Georgia, to highlight how the Biden
administra- — Biden-Harris administration’s investments are creating a
clean energy economy that works for all.   
  
In Dalton, the Vice President will tour a Qcells solar panel
manufacturing facility and deliver remarks.  Catalyzed by the
Biden-Harris administration’s pro-climate actions such as the inflation
Reduction Act, in January 2023 Qcells announced that it is investing
$2.5 billion to triple its solar manufacturing capacity in Georgia.   
  
And tomorrow, the Vice President will announce a historic commitment
between Qcells and Summit Ridge Energy to deploy 1.2 gigawatts of
community solar power, which will require the manufacturing of 2.5
million solar panels and is the largest community solar purchase in
American history.   
  
These community solar projects will benefit hundreds of communities
across the U.S. and will generate enough clean electricity to power
140,000 homes and businesses, including households in underserved
communities.   
  
Community solar results in an average of 10 percent savings annually for
customers and is a way for renters and those without access to rooftop
solar to receive the benefits of clean energy.   
  
Tomorrow’s announcement is just one of the many investments we are
seeing across Georgia to build our clean energy economy and invest in
industries of the future.   
  
And the announcement that is happening is because of the action that
Biden — President Biden and Vice President Harris took to pass the
Inflation Reduction Act, the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, and the
CHIPS and Science Act.   
  
And this week, ABB and Kia also made new clean energy and electric
vehicle announcements in Georgia and attributed those investments to the
work of the Inflation Reduction Act.   
  
The trip to Dalton comes as the President, Vice President, and Cabinet
are fanning out across the country as part of the Investing in America
tour to amplify how the administration’s actions are creating millions
of good-paying jobs, rebuilding our infrastructure, paving the way for a
clean energy future, strengthening supply chains, and lowering costs for
working families.   
  
Georgia has already received $131 billion in private-sector
manufacturing investments since the start of the administration,
primarily in clean energy, electric vehicle, and battery
manufacturing.   
  
This is on top — or this is in addition to the $435 billion that has
been invested across the nation.  Part of this tour is also to lay out
what’s at stake if congressional Republicans get their way and repeal
the Inflation Reduction Act and slash funding for manufacturing,
innovation, and research.  
  
The Vice President will talk about the impact that the President’s
Investing in America agenda is having on communities like Dalton — how
we’re recruiting thousands of good jobs in these communities, helping
bring billions of dollars of investments here, and helping Dalton and
Georgia be at the center of building a clean energy economy that will
protect our environment, create good jobs, and strengthen communities
for generations to come.   
  
This work also builds on the Vice President’s history working on climate
action.   
  
As San Francisco District Attorney, Vice President Harris established
one of the first environmental justice units in the country.   
  
And as Attorney General of California, the Vice President took action to
hold polluters accountable and protect communities and the environment,
including after the 2015 Santa Barbara oil spill.   
  
As a U.S. senator from California, the Vice President led comprehensive
legislation centered on climate and environmental justice and authored
multiple bills that informed the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and
Inflation Reduction Act.   
  
And, with that, I will turn to my colleague, \[senior administration
official\].   
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks, \[senior administration
official\].  And thanks, everybody.   
  
I think, tomorrow, one of the things you’ll see is how much the clean
energy economy really means transformation for communities on the
ground.   
  
This administration, under the President and Vice President’s
leadership, has really leaned in to making sure that the geography of
opportunity as we expand clean energy and climate solutions across the
country reaches every single ZIP Code.  That’s what we’re seeing in
places like Dalton, Georgia.   
  
And one of the exciting parts of making sure that opportunity reaches
everybody is the fact you’ll see on the ground, for those of you who
travel, that the clean energy economy really is a boon for blue-collar
workers.   
  
You know, so often, I think folks think of clean energy as the thing
that folks from STEM backgrounds do in the labs.  The reality is, today,
we are at scale.  We have the solutions at hand.   
  
And even as we get more challenging news every day from the scientists —
most recently, today from NOAA scientists showing how greenhouse gas
emissions continue to rise — we know we have the tools at hand.  And
that’s what we’re seeing in Dalton, Georgia.   
  
One of the, I think, exciting things for me is how this is pulling on
diverse supply chains and really accelerating capital formation in
places where we wouldn’t have expected it before.   
  
That’s what the Invest in America tour is all about.  It’s about turning
America into a magnet for private investment.   
  
And we’re seeing that with, as \[senior administration official\]
mentioned, hundreds of billions of dollars coming off the sidelines and
going into real projects on the ground.  Solar is one of those stories
of transformation.   
  
Since the President took office, 50 manufacturing plants with enough
capacity to power 8 million more homes each year with solar power have
been invested in.  At least half of those plants were announced in just
the months since the Inflation Reduction Act.  It’s easy to forget it’s
only been months.  We can’t measure that time in years yet.  But that’s
105 gigawatts of domestic solar equipment manufacturing capacity just
since the IRA was passed.  
  
And from an employment perspective, that means real, good-paying jobs on
the ground.  From a deployment perspective, that means an eight-fold
increase in our capability by the end of 2024.   
  
And it’s a transformation that we’re seeing not just in traditional
clean energy technologies, but across the board, whether it’s the chips
that go into these high-tech products, be they vehicles or clean energy
products, or, frankly, the expansion in climate-smart agriculture that
we’re seeing in places like Georgia.   
  
So, we’re excited about the progress we’re seeing on the ground.  And
I’d be remiss if I didn’t note the tremendous leadership from Senator
Ossoff and Senator Warnock in helping us pass these historic pieces of
legislation and helping attract this investment into the state of
Georgia.   
  
None of this happens by accident.  It’s been the persistence of folks in
Congress, like Ossoff and Warnock.  It’s been the persistence of our
leaders here at the White House, the President and Vice President,
that’s making sure that we’re really attracting this capital; putting
steel in the ground — not just talking about projects pie in the sky,
but actually putting steel in the ground; creating good-paying jobs.   
  
And we see it in this announcement from Qcells.  We see it in the
announcement today from Kia, which is going to make its EV9 in Georgia. 
We see it from ABB — also an announcement just this week.  So, it’s a —
it’s a real transformative moment.   
  
But I think the important part is: This transformation is taking place
because a bunch of people decided we needed new policies that were going
to turn America into a magnet for this type of investment.  We’re
excited to showcase the proof of that on the ground tomorrow.  
  
MODERATOR:  Great, thank you so much to our two speakers.  With that, we
will move into a Q&A.  As a reminder, this call will be embargoed until
five o’clock a.m. Eastern Time tomorrow.   
  
With that, if you have any question just press the raise-hand function
and we will call on you.  So we’ll give it a second for those to
queue.  
  
Great.  Our first question will go to Ben Geman.  Your line should be
unmuted.  
  
Q    Hi, can you hear me okay?  
  
MODERATOR:  Yes, we can.   
  
Q    Yeah, thanks.  This has been Ben Geman with Axios.  I wonder, can
you walk me through what are the specific IRA incentives that are
connected to this Qcells project?  Is — were you referring to the
manufacturing incentives or the extended power production — or solar
power production incentives or both?  Thank you.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Both.   
  
Sorry.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Well, Ben, it’s both, and it’s a lot
more.  
  
First, there’s a tremendous demand for these clean energy technologies
to come online.  And that’s propelled by the fact that they save the
American people money.  This is a cheap — cheaper, more reliable, more
affordable alternative, and it’s becoming increasingly ubiquitous in the
market.   
  
So, the demand is being driven in part by the economics and in part by
now a 10-year production tax credit and investment tax credit to deploy
these technologies, as well as, by the way, by a ton of state action all
across the country that’s chasing after a 100-percent clean grid, which
is the goal the President set for 2035.   
  
But in addition to that — and I think the reason we’re seeing this
supply chain reshore to the United States — is because of the
manufacturing and production tax credit that’s included in the Inflation
Reduction Act.   
  
And, by the way, Senators Warnock and Ossoff really were the pioneers of
the SEMA legislation — the Solar Energy Manufacturing for America
legislation — that then went into the IRA that we then passed, which is
leading to this transformative supply chain being built out all across
the country.   
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I’d also just add that Qcells has noted
that, in particular for the community solar projects that they’re
working on, the adders for the tax credits were very much part of the
incentive building in energy communities, building in underserved
communities.   
  
And so, you know, those incentives that were written into the law are
already demonstrating that they are going to have real on-the-ground
impact for those communities that we want these investments targeted
in.   
  
MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Emily Blackwell. 
Emily, your line should be unmuted.   
  
Q    Hi, this is Greg Glover, Local 3 News.  I’m sitting at Emily’s desk
here.  Can you go into more detail about the demand you just mentioned? 
Is it more from municipalities?  Is it from the private sector?  And —  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah.  
  
Q    Talk about that a moment.  Thank you.   
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Great.  You know,      what’s
staggering — and this is, I think, truly staggering — one third of the
solar panels that have been installed in the United States have been
installed under the Biden-Harris administration, just two years and
change into this administration.  One out of three of the electrons
coming from solar are because of panels that went in in the last two and
a half years.   
  
The demand is coming from every quarter, from every part of the
economy.  The President has secured the largest investment in rural
cooperatives, in rural energy since LBJ.  The biggest — biggest
investment in transforming rural electricity.   
  
So, we’re seeing massive demand in solar from rural areas.  We’re seeing
massive demand from low- and moderate-income communities.   
  
One of the things \[senior administration official\] was talking about
is this bonus that you get for deploying solar, in particular in low-
and moderate-income communities and in energy communities, places where
maybe a coal plant shut down in the last several decades.   
  
Deploying solar in those places actually comes with a bonus tax
incentive.  So, we’re seeing demand there from project developers, from
community solar folks, and from families.   
  
Last year, we saw over half a million households choose to go solar on
their roof.  That’s because they see that this saves them money on their
bottom lines.  And then, of course, we’re seeing massive demand from
utility companies all across the country, including in the Southeast.   
  
So, this is not just, you know, deployment that we’re seeing in a
particular part of the country or from a particular segment of the
economy.  We’re seeing it in rural, we’re seeing it in Tribal, we’re
seeing at the community scale and at the utility scale.   
  
And, by the way, we’re excited to see all of this be stamped “Made in
America.”  
  
MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to David Baker. 
David, your line should be unmuted.  
  
David, we’re not hearing you if you are speaking.   
  
Q    Can you hear me now?  
  
MODERATOR:  Yes, we can.  
  
Q    Okay, excellent.  I wanted to get more detail about the community
solar project that’s being announced tomorrow.  Could you tell us again
the companies that are involved, the geographic area that we’re going to
be looking at, where these panels and cells are going to be coming from,
and how much money this is all going to cost?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Absolutely.  So, the agreement is
between Qcells — they’re in Dalton, Georgia — and Summit Ridge Energy. 
And that commitment is for 100 — or, sorry, 1.2 gigawatts of solar
power.  It’ll — and that’s to get out — oh, sorry.  It’s to get over
140,000 homes energy.   
  
And the projects are still being fully assessed, but they will be
primarily initiating in Illinois, Maryland, and Maine, and breaking
ground by the end of this year.   
  
And so, this is the largest community solar announcement and commitment
in U.S. history.  And Qcells has stated that to meet this commitment of
1.2 gigawatts that they’re going to have to run their plant for eight
months just to get this commitment done.   
  
And so, it is a really large job creator in itself, beyond the rest of
the jobs that Qcells is creating in their expansion that we’re going to
see down the road.   
  
And I just want to do one quick correction to a number from earlier, is
that Georgia has already seen $31 billion worth of private sector
investment in manufacturing since the start of the administration.  And
that is part of that $435 billion that we’ve seen across the nation
since the start of the Biden-Harris administration.   
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  You know, what’s incredible here — and
your question made me think of this — is, in 2021, the President
articulated his theory of the case to turn America into a global energy
powerhouse as we move into the clean energy economy.   
  
I think there were a lot of skeptics that we could reshore manufacturing
here to the United States.  But the President, really from the first day
of his administration, started working across the aisle, working with
folks in Congress, working to bring together labor and industry to
create the politics around passing the largest investment not only in
clean energy, but the largest investment in re-industrializing America’s
backbone, re-industrializing and making sure we had the capacity to
produce these high-in-demand products.  
  
He’s been successful at that.  He passed historic legislation, which, by
the way, is under attack by Republicans now.  That historic legislation
is turning into billions of dollars of investment coming in from the
private sector, which, by the way, the GOP wants to turn the other
direction.  
  
He is marshalling all of our capacity to help cut costs for consumers. 
If we didn’t have this investment, if we didn’t have the President’s
Investing in America agenda moving forward, we would not be seeing this
transformation in communities all across the country, whether it’s in
ships or it’s in cars of the future or it’s in these clean energy
technologies.  This is the product of his leadership.  
  
And, you know, it’s not, I think — not a surprise that there are
detractors who are trying to create confusion around what the Inflation
Reduction Act is delivering.  You know, you’ve got this event taking
place in a district that is represented, theoretically represented, by
someone who is trying to repeal the Inflation Reduction Act, which is
the literal reason why this investment is taking place.  It’s the reason
why American families are going to save money on their bills.  
  
So, you know, I think it’s really important to — to connect all the dots
here.  We passed historic legislation because of the President’s
leadership — historic legislation, by the way, that cuts the deficit. 
And — and we’re seeing the proof on the ground now.  
  
MODERATOR:  Thank you.   
  
Our final question will go to David Iacona- — Iaconangelo.  Apologies
about mispronouncing your last name.  Your line should be unmuted.  
  
Q    Hi, there.  Can you hear me?  
  
MODERATOR:  Yes, we can.  
  
Q    Okay, great.  Thanks for doing this.  My question is about — about
the solar tariffs that the Commerce Department is considering now. 
That’s on solar imports.  I guess I’m curious, you know, if Commerce
does go through with these tariffs, how it might change this deal, if at
all.  And — and how firm are these commitments to buy solar equipment? 
I mean, are these contracts?  Are these, sort of, just pledges to make
these purchases?  And also — someone might have said this earlier — I’m
curious if there’s a dollar figure associated with this — the value of —
of this deal.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I don’t know that we have dollar
figure, but we are seeing a really durable and — and really strong
supply chain manifest all across the country around solar.  And — and I
think it’s because of the combination of policies that this
administration has advanced.   
  
You know, there is an existing set of tariffs around solar.  They’re
designed to level the playing field between folks who are manufacturing
here in the United States and folks who are manufacturing around the
world.   
  
The President has been an incredible defender of U.S. workers in making
sure they’re competing on a level playing field.  And that works in
tandem with an investment in our workers and investment in our
communities.  
  
And, by the way, when we deploy the solar panels here in this country
now under the Inflation Reduction Act, there is domestic content
requirements.  So we’re creating demand for products that are sourced
from the United States.  We’re doing that, by the way, in purchases of
energy that the U.S. government does for itself.  And the results are
clear:  These policies are working in tandem, under the President’s
leadership and the Vice President’s leadership, to spur strong, durable
supply chains here in the U.S.   
  
Anything you want to add?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, and I think that’s an ex- —
that’s a great — or Qcells is a great example of what \[senior
administration official\] is talking about.   
  
As part of their announcement back in January of the $2.5 billion, one
of the expansion plants that they’re working on is going to be an
end-to-end plant.  And they’re going to have the polysilicon developed
in the U.S. all the way through the end solar panel.  
  
So, you know, this is just a demonstration that we can build these
things in America, that we are building these things in America, and
we’re going to build more of them, as a demonstration of — of the impact
of the President’s adminis- — leadership on this.  
  
MODERATOR:  Great.  Thank you all so much for joining and thank you to
our speakers.  As a reminder, this call is on background from senior
administration officials and it is embargoed until 5:00 a.m. tomorrow.  
  
If you would like to follow up with any of the companies that were
mentioned involved with this announcement, please email
<media@ovp.eop.gov> and we can follow up with contact information.  
  
Thanks so much.  Bye  
  
END

\###  

<table>
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 100%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td class="has-text-align-left" data-align="left"><br />
<br />
<br />
</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td class="has-text-align-left" data-align="left"></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
