---
date: '2023-04-22'
published_time: 2023-04-22 10:14:03-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/04/22/what-they-are-saying-president-biden-takes-action-to-build-healthy-communities-and-advance-environmental-justice/
tags: statements-releases
title: "WHAT THEY ARE SAYING: President\_Biden Takes Action to Build Healthy Communities\
  \ and Advance Environmental\_Justice"
---
 
Yesterday President Biden signed [an executive
order](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/04/21/fact-sheet-president-biden-signs-executive-order-to-revitalize-our-nations-commitment-to-environmental-justice-for-all/)
to further embed environmental justice into the work of federal
agencies, bring clean energy and healthy environments to all, and
recognize, undo, and mitigate harm to those who have suffered from toxic
pollution and other environmental burdens like climate change.  
   
During his first week in office, President Biden launched the most
ambitious environmental justice agenda in our nation’s history. This
action will continue delivering on that vision by helping to ensure that
all people can benefit from clean air, clean water, better health,
access to green space, safe and affordable housing, and clean
transportation.  
   
Throughout Earth Week, President Biden, Vice President Harris and other
Cabinet-level officials are holding events and announcing commitments
focused on how the President’s Investing in America agenda is powering
an American manufacturing and clean energy boom, lowering
prices, creating good-paying jobs in clean energy
industries, meeting our climate goals, and advancing environmental
justice and conservation.   
   
*Leaders from across the country praised the President’s Environmental
Justice Executive Order. Here’s what they’re saying:*  
   
**Arizona Congressman Raul Grijalva, Ranking Member, House Natural
Resources Committee**, **Illinois Senator Tammy Duckworth, New Jersey
Senator Cory Booker, and California Congresswoman Barbara Lee**: “There
is nothing more fundamental to our health and wellbeing than the right
to air that is safe to breathe and water that is safe to drink. Yet,
polluting industries have made a business out of purposely ignoring
these rights and dumping their dirtiest messes on the communities whose
voices they assumed would be ignored—poor communities, communities of
color, and Indigenous communities. And shamefully, for decades, those
assumptions were right. Today, the Biden administration is telling the
millions of Americans living in environmental justice communities that
they are finally being heard and heeded. The Executive Order mirrors
many key priorities from our *A. Donald McEachin Environmental Justice
For All Act*, which is the result of years of listening to and working
directly with communities to draft the federal policy changes they need
to realize their rights. We commend the Biden administration for taking
historic action on their commitment to environmental justice with this
Executive Order. As federal agencies move forward with putting these
policies into place, we encourage them to continue working closely with
the White House Environmental Justice Advisory Council and environmental
justice communities to ensure that its implementation lives up to its
promise. Here in Congress, we will keep working to advance the *A.
Donald McEachin Environmental Justice For All Act* into law, so these
promises can be kept for good.”
\[[Statement](https://democrats-naturalresources.house.gov/media/press-releases/ranking-member-grijalva-sen-duckworth-rep-lee-sen-booker-issue-joint-statement-cheering-president-bidens-environmental-justice-for-all-executive-order),
4/21/23\]  
   
**California Congressman Jared Huffman:** “.@POTUS announced a new
Executive Order that will deepen our country’s commitment to
environmental justice. For too long, our most vulnerable communities
have suffered disproportionate environmental harms. This EO will help
ensure everyone lives in a safe & healthy environment.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepHuffman/status/1649436659102937088?s=20),
4/21/23\]  
   
**Oregon Senator Jeff Merkley:** “The executive order @POTUS signed is a
step toward addressing historical environmental injustices and
inequities and protecting our health and planet. Good to see the
@WhiteHouse clearly recognize plastic pollution as an environmental
justice issue.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenJeffMerkley/status/1649508872174854144),
4/21/23\]  
   
**Richard Moore, Co-Chair of the White House Environmental Justice
Advisory Council and Co-Coordinator of Los Jardines Institute in
Albuquerque, New Mexico:** “Today is an historic day in our larger
movement for justice, started by our elders and ancestors many years
ago. Since his first day in office, President Biden committed to
listening and learning from the expertise and perspectives of
environmental justice, grassroots communities to update the Clinton
Executive Order. With this Executive Order, he is making good on that
promise and answering a decades-long call to put environmental justice
at the heart of federal policy. I am pleased that the recommendations of
the White House Environmental Justice Advisory Council are central to
this Executive Order. There is more work that must be done together, but
today is a day to remember.”
\[[Statement](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/04/Environmental-Justice-Leaders-on-EJ-EO.pdf),
4/21/23\]  
   
**Peggy Shepard, Co-Chair of the White House Environmental Justice
Advisory Council and Co-Founder and Executive Director of WE ACT for
Environmental Justice:** “The Biden Administration has issued an update
of Executive Order 12898, adding to the President’s landmark work to
create the Justice40 Initiative, the White House Environmental Justice
Interagency Council, and the White House Environmental Justice Advisory
Council (WHEJAC). Today, the foundation of the government’s
environmental justice work has been updated to respond to
recommendations made by the WHEJAC to further advance environmental and
climate justice throughout the federal government. This is an important
action as we begin to see real investment in frontline communities.”
\[[Statement](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/04/Environmental-Justice-Leaders-on-EJ-EO.pdf),
4/21/23\]  
   
**Catherine Coleman Flowers, Vice Chair of the White House Environmental
Justice Advisory Council and Founder of the Center for Rural Enterprise
and Environmental Justice:** “President Biden has demonstrated time and
again his commitment to environmental justice. From the early days of
the campaign when he sought solutions directly from community leaders,
to the creation of the White House Environmental Justice Advisory
Council, to today’s announcement, the President and his Administration
are bringing the voices of communities into federal policy-making. I’m
honored to be working alongside these leaders in this fight for justice
and a healthy future for children.”
\[[Statement](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/04/Environmental-Justice-Leaders-on-EJ-EO.pdf),
4/21/23\]  
   
**Dr. Beverly Wright, Member of the White House Environmental Justice
Advisory Council and Founder & Executive Director of the Deep South
Center for Environmental Justice:** “This executive order is a promise
made and a promise kept by the Biden Administration. I was a part of the
team that worked on the original executive order signed by President
Bill Clinton in 1994. Although it was an historic step in the right
direction, it lacked accountability measures to ensure its efficacy.
This new order strengthens the 1994 executive order by operationalizing
and institutionalizing the recommendation within every level of the
federal government. And to ensure accountability, each agency will
report all progress made directly to the President. But, while today’s
executive order is historic, much work must be done to achieve true
environmental justice.”
\[[Statement](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/04/Environmental-Justice-Leaders-on-EJ-EO.pdf),
4/21/23\]  
   
**Dr. Robert Bullard, Member of the White House Environmental Justice
Advisory Council and Director of the Bullard Center for Environmental &
Climate Justice: “**A BIG DEAL! Biden to Create White House Office of
Environmental Justice”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/DrBobBullard/status/1649445143433428994?s=20),
4/21/23\]  
   
**Tom Cormons,** **Member of the White House Environmental Justice
Advisory Council and** **Executive Director of Appalachian Voices in
Charlottesville, Virginia:** “President Biden’s executive order today is
a big step forward for real, practical action to address the profound
environmental injustices affecting the health and well-being of millions
of Americans every day, in every corner of the country. Together with
the President and Vice President’s commitment and vision, the absolutely
tireless, sustained hard work of generations of community activists and
justice leaders, my colleagues on the White House Environmental Justice
Advisory Council, and the public servants at the White House Council on
Environmental Quality, we have reached this milestone. A lot more of
this same resolve will be needed to implement the EO, so some of the
most important work has just begun.”
\[[Statement](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/04/Environmental-Justice-Leaders-on-EJ-EO.pdf),
4/21/23\]  
   
**Michele Roberts, Member of the White House Environmental Justice
Advisory Council and National Co-Coordinator, Environmental Justice
Health Alliance:** “The President’s Executive Order is an historic
announcement and action. We are excited to know that President Biden is
honoring his commitment to center environmental justice throughout the
entire federal family. Our communities are equipped with their own
solutions and are ready to work together with their local governments to
advance the remedy and redress they need.”
\[[Statement](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/04/Environmental-Justice-Leaders-on-EJ-EO.pdf),
4/21/23\]  
   
**Maria Lopez-Nuñez, Member of the White House Environmental Justice
Advisory Council and** **Deputy Director, Organizing and Advocacy for
Ironbound Community Corporation:** “From the technical assistance
centers and urban forestry grants announced last week to the new
Executive Order, the Biden Administration is on a roll. President Biden
is showing the country – and the world – that as we deal with climate
change, we have to prioritize those who have been most impacted.”
\[[Statement](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/04/Environmental-Justice-Leaders-on-EJ-EO.pdf),
4/21/23\]  
   
**Dr. Kyle Whyte, Member of the White House Environmental Justice
Advisory Council Executive Order Workgroup, Professor at the University
of Michigan, and U.S. Science Envoy: **“President Biden’s Executive
Order creates a powerful new tool that speaks to the many important
dimensions of how government and communities can work together to
achieve environmental justice that have not previously been given this
much due. It reflects the wisdom of generations of environmental justice
advocates – and the recent hard work of the White House Environmental
Justice Advisory Council.”
\[[Statement](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/04/Environmental-Justice-Leaders-on-EJ-EO.pdf),
4/21/23\]  
   
**Jade Begay, NDN Collective’s Director of Policy and Advocacy (Tesuque
Pueblo) and Member of the White House Environmental Justice Advisory
Council:** “This action from the Biden Administration signals that our
guidance and feedback, informed by our lived experience as environmental
justice and Tribal community members, is not only being heard but is
being implemented in the ways we need. As we face blatant attacks on the
laws and policies that have protected our communities for decades, it is
relieving and emboldening to see the Biden Administration double down on
their commitment to continue to undo the environmental equities that
tribal communities have shouldered for generations. While implementing
this EO will be exciting and challenging, all those who work or have
worked to advance Environmental Justice should acknowledge this win and
celebrate our hard work. I look forward to working with the
Administration to ensure that Indigenous communities and Tribes are
informed and engaged on these new and updated commitments and
initiatives, especially when it comes to advancing Tribal Sovereignty
and Indigenous Traditional Ecological Knowledge.”
\[[Statement](https://ndncollective.org/ndn-collective-responds-to-biden-climate-justice-executive-order/),
4/21/23\]  
   
**LaTricea D. Adams, MAT, Eds, Founder CEO & President, Black
Millennials 4 Flint and Member of the White House Environmental Justice
Advisory Council:** “Hazel Johnson, Wilma Mankiller, Dana Alston,
Congressman Don McEachin… today was a day we wish all the environmental
justice warriors could see. This momentous occasion with the signing of
the Executive Order on  Revitalizing Our Nation’s Commitment to
Environmental Justice for All is a reflection of the work of our
ancestors and elders, and a signal to the next generation of EJ leaders
to continue the fight until environmental justice is truly achieved for
all.”
\[[Statement](https://www.blackmillennials4flint.org/black-millennials-4-flint-applauds-president-bidens-monumental-environmental-justice-executive-order/),
4/21/23\]  
   
**Angelo Logan, Member of the White House Environmental Justice Advisory
Council and Senior Director, Environmental and Climate Justice at The
Liberty Hill Foundation:** “I applaud President Biden and his
administration at this monumental moment for signing and putting into
action the Environmental Justice Executive Order. This Executive Order
makes it clear that much more needs to be done to lift the burdens off
and protect EJ communities. This Executive Order directs the highest
levels of government to institutionalize Environmental Justice giving
government and EJ communities the tools to tackle the onslaught of
environmental burdens we have been contending with for decades. I look
forward to working with the administration and all of government to
implement this order and hold all levels of the administration account
to the principles and statements within this order.”
\[[Statement](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/04/Environmental-Justice-Leaders-on-EJ-EO.pdf),
4/21/23\]  
   
**Reverend Leo M. Woodberry, Pastor of Kingdom Living Temple Church and
Executive Director of New Alpha Community Development Corporation, in
Florence, South Carolina:** “President Biden’s Executive Order is yet
another historical first on environmental justice and a much-needed
remedy for the citizens of this great nation. As climate impacts grow on
a daily basis, it must be matched by greater efforts to keep our world,
people, and nature safe, resilient, and sustainable.”
\[[Statement](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/04/Environmental-Justice-Leaders-on-EJ-EO.pdf),
4/21/23\]  
   
**Dr. Nicky Sheats, New Jersey Environmental Justice Alliance, Kean
University:** “The cumulative pollution burdens that EJ communities
continue to face will demand that we implement federal, state, and local
policies that can protect EJ communities now and into the future. This
new Executive Order on Environmental Justice ensures that the federal
government goes further than it ever has on delivering the protections
and investments our communities need.” \[Statement, 4/21/23\]  
   
**Dr. Ana Baptista, ICC & NJEJA Trustee, Tishman Environment and Design
Center, The New School:** “The Biden-Harris administration’s commitment
to centering their environmental and climate agenda on environmental
justice communities is reflected in today’s signing of the new Executive
Order on Environmental Justice and the launch of the EJ Scorecard. EJ
communities around the country can now track the federal government’s
progress on the historic investments in EJ and look forward to new
commitments by federal agencies to implement cumulative impact
policies.” \[Statement, 4/21/23\]  
   
**Felipe Benitez, Executive Director and Founder, Corazón Latino:**
“Today, we celebrate a groundbreaking victory for families and
communities that have long suffered the consequences of environmental
injustice. President Biden’s executive order sends a clear message that
our voices have been heard and that change is on the horizon.”
\[[Statement](https://www.corazonlatino.us/blog/2023/4/21/statement-on-president-bidens-executive-order-on-environmental-justice-for-all),
4/21/23\]  
   
**Dana Johnson, Senior Director of Strategy and Federal Policy, WE ACT
for Environmental Justice:** “Today’s historic announcement addresses
what WE ACT has been fighting for 35 years: environmental justice is
central to civil rights and environmental laws. The administration is
implementing meaningful change to support the message we’ve known for
decades: harmful pollution disproportionately impacts low-income
communities and communities of color, among other vulnerable
communities. The updated Executive Order, building on the original
Executive Order 12898 issued by President Clinton in 1994, will further
embed environmental justice work in federal agencies to achieve real,
measurable progress that low-income and communities of color can depend
on.”
\[[Statement](https://www.weact.org/2023/04/we-act-commends-biden-white-house-on-historic-environmental-justice-executive-order/),
4/21/23\]  
   
**Mark Magaña, Founding President & CEO Green Latinos;** “Today’s new
Executive Order from the President is another step toward achieving
environmental liberation for all Latino/a/e, Black, Indigenous, Asian,
and other low-income communities of color facing the climate emergency’s
disproportionate impacts. By addressing historically marginalized
communities’ needs, we prioritize those facing the worst of this crisis.
This new executive order acknowledges the problematic history of this
country’s redlining legacy. It highlights how communities of color are
the least responsible yet the most impacted regarding deadly air
pollution, inequitable water access, poor access to public lands, and
access to affordable clean energy. We look forward to working with the
Biden-Harris Administration to continue fighting for our communities who
deserve the right to access clean air, clean water, nature, and clean
and affordable renewable energy.” \[Statement, 4/21/23\]  
   
**Yadira Sanchez, Executive Director, Poder LatinX:** “Nearly 10 percent
of Latinx children suffer from asthma, and they are 40 percent more
likely to die from asthma than non-Latino whites. Our communities are
being exposed to horrific amounts of pollution and living with the
impacts for the rest of their lives. President Biden’s executive order
will direct federal agencies to study the environmental impacts that the
Latinx community is facing every day, such as the development of
respiratory illnesses such as asthma due to pollution and exposure to
other toxic materials. This research will aid the administration in
creating policies that keep our families safe from pollution and toxic
waste and help guide resources to communities in need. As a child, I
experienced lead contamination through my community’s water reserve and
continue to feel the impacts of that exposure to this day. I can say
firsthand that Latinx communities across this country will benefit from
this effort. Poder Latinx commends President Biden’s efforts toward
building the most ambitious environmental justice agenda in our nation’s
history.” \[Statement, 4/21/23\]  
   
**Rosalinda Guillen, Co-Chair, Front and Centered Community Council in
Seattle, Washington:** “Decades of community organizing in environmental
justice communities have resulted in the progress we see today as
evidenced by this executive order. Ultimately, it is frontline
communities who will hold state policymakers and agencies accountable.
Washington State was ahead of the nation in developing the Healthy
Environment for All (HEAL) Act, a whole of government approach to
Environmental Justice envisioned and championed by our community of
color coalition Front and Centered. Now President Biden is aiming to
follow suit by embedding environmental justice considerations into
future agency planning and development. The White House is taking these
efforts a step further by recognizing all agencies need to be involved
in and creating an Environmental Justice Scorecard to track what federal
agencies are doing to advance environmental justice across the country.
This scorecard represents a useful accountability measure that our state
should adopt, since frontline communities too often have to fill in
where state government fails to deliver.” \[Statement. 4/21/23\]  
   
**Climate Justice Alliance:** “Environmental justice advocates were set
for a hard-fought win Friday as President Joe Biden readied an executive
order tightening oversight of pollution with an eye toward safeguarding
public health.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/CJAOurPower/status/1649484201924743180?s=20),
4/21/23\]  
   
**Equitable & Just National Climate Platform:** “@POTUS’s
\#EnvironmentalJustice EO today accelerates three of our goals: beefing
up protections for communities overburdened by pollution; making it
easier for communities to have a say in federal decisions; & fed
agencies that aim to center EJ concerns.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/a_justclimate/status/1649435627778363392?s=20),
4/21/23\]  
   
**Justice 40rward:** “Today, @potus plans to sign an executive order
making environmental justice a focus of every federal agency & requiring
them to develop plans to address the harms caused by a long history of
environmental racism.” 
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/justice40rward/status/1649474051050557440?s=20),
4/21/23\]  
   
**Kate Johnson, C40 Cities:** “I was honored to represent @c40cities as
@POTUS signed an executive order on environmental justice today. Justice
is at core of so much of our cities’ work to tackle the climate crisis,
including Houston whose solar energy work was acknowledged by President
Biden.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/katej07/status/1649493038484389888),
4/21/23\]  
   
**Children’s Environmental Health Network:** “Every child, every family,
every person has a right to breathe clean air, drink clean water, and
live in a healthy community! @POTUS’s Executive Order to Revitalize Our
Nation’s Commitment to \#EnvironmentalJustice is on the right track!”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/CEHN/status/1649499536929312777?s=20),
4/21/23\]  
   
**Voto Latino:** “President Biden signed an Executive Order making
environmental justice a focus of every federal agency. 81% of US Latinos
consider addressing climate change a priority. A majority say that
environmental issues impact their local communities.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/votolatino/status/1649499138898251783?s=20),
4/21/23\]

\###
