---
date: '2023-04-26'
modified_time: 2023-04-28 11:39:36-04:00
published_time: 2023-04-26 17:25:41-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/04/26/leaders-joint-statement-in-commemoration-of-the-70th-anniversary-of-the-alliance-between-the-united-states-of-america-and-the-republic-of-korea/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Leaders\u2019 Joint Statement in Commemoration of the 70th Anniversary of\
  \ the Alliance between the United\_States of America and the Republic of\_Korea"
---
 
Today President Joseph R. Biden Jr. of the United States (U.S.) and
President Yoon Suk Yeol of the Republic of Korea (ROK) met in Washington
to commemorate the 70<sup>th</sup> anniversary of the U.S.-ROK Alliance.
This is the second State Visit of the Biden-Harris Administration. While
our two nations are inseparably tied by our deep and unwavering security
cooperation—reinforced today by the Presidents’ commitments in the
Washington Declaration to develop ever-stronger mutual defense and
deterrence—the greatest success of the Alliance is its clear and
expanding focus on achieving a secure and brighter future for the
American and Korean people. Together, we will increase our comprehensive
global cooperation, deepen our robust regional engagement, and broaden
our ironclad bilateral ties during the next 70 years of our Alliance to
face the 21<sup>st</sup> century’s most difficult challenges head-on.
Guided by our shared commitment to defend universal human rights,
freedom, and the rule of law, the United States and the ROK are
constructing an Alliance that will provide future generations with a
firm foundation upon which to build prosperity and security.   
   
**Global Comprehensive Strategic Alliance**  
   
As the linchpin for peace and prosperity in the Indo-Pacific, our
Alliance has grown far beyond the Korean Peninsula, reflecting the vital
role of our two countries as global leaders in advancing democracy,
economic prosperity, security, and technological innovation. The two
Presidents reiterated their commitment to the principles enshrined in
the UN Charter. President Biden applauded the ROK’s initiative to
embrace greater global responsibilities, including by hosting the next
Summit for Democracy, further developing the partnership with the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization and the G7 on the basis of shared values,
and continuing to expand contributions to UN peacekeeping activities.
For his part, President Yoon expressed support for the United States’
cooperative efforts to ensure peace and security in the region,
including through the launch of AUKUS. President Biden and President
Yoon see global development cooperation as a key way to advance global
stability and welcomed the signing of new institutional frameworks that
strengthen U.S.-ROK development cooperation and beyond.  
   
President Yoon and President Biden join the international community in
condemning Russia’s war of aggression against Ukraine. The United States
and the ROK stand with Ukraine as it defends its sovereignty and
territorial integrity, and the two Presidents condemned in the strongest
possible terms Russia’s actions against civilians and critical
infrastructure. Both countries have responded resolutely to Russia’s
clear violations of international law by promoting accountability
through sanctions and export control measures, and we are continuing to
support Ukraine through the vital provision of political, security,
humanitarian, and economic assistance, including to increase power
generation and transmission and rebuild critical infrastructure.  
   
President Biden and President Yoon reiterate their commitment to
diplomacy with the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea (DPRK) as the
only viable means of achieving lasting peace on the Korean Peninsula and
call on the DPRK to return to negotiations. The two Presidents are
committed to build a better future for all Korean people and support a
unified Korean Peninsula that is free and at peace. The United States
and the ROK stand ready to provide humanitarian aid to the most
vulnerable North Koreans and will strengthen cooperation to promote
human rights in the DPRK as well as to resolve the issues of abductions,
detainees, and unrepatriated prisoners of war. President Biden
reaffirmed his support for the goals of the ROK’s Audacious Initiative.
The United States and the ROK condemn the DPRK’s blatant violation of
human rights and the dignity of its own people and its decision to
distribute its scarce resources to weapons of mass destruction
development, which presents a crucial security challenge for the
Alliance. In this vein, the two Presidents condemn the DPRK’s nuclear
and ballistic missile programs and call on the DPRK to halt their
development. The United States and the ROK are committed to working with
the UN Security Council and the international community to address
actions by the DPRK and individuals and entities that violate UN
Security Council resolutions. President Biden and President Yoon
reiterate their commitment to the complete denuclearization of the
Korean Peninsula and reaffirm that a DPRK nuclear test would be met with
a strong and resolute response from the international community.  
   
The Presidents expressed their deep concern regarding the growing impact
of climate change and biodiversity loss, and they committed to galvanize
global action to address the climate crisis. President Yoon and
President Biden reaffirmed their Nationally Determined Contributions
under the Paris Agreement and 2050 net-zero targets. Recognizing the
need for ambitious power sector decarbonization to meet these goals, the
Presidents agreed to significantly enhance the clean electricity share,
including renewables and nuclear energy.  The Presidents committed to
cooperate in the development and deployment of carbon reduction,
renewable, and hydrogen technologies and enhance energy efficiency in
industry, construction, and transportation. The Presidents seek to
strengthen bilateral cooperation in clean hydrogen, methane abatement in
the fossil fuel sector, green shipping, and accelerating the deployment
of light-duty, zero-emissions vehicles (ZEVs).  
   
Our two nations are committed to the peaceful use of nuclear energy. The
two leaders affirmed the importance of nuclear energy as a key means for
overcoming the energy security crisis and achieving their goal of net
zero emissions. The Presidents reaffirmed that both countries are
committed to engaging in global civil nuclear cooperation consistent
with the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) Additional Protocol,
while mutually respecting each other’s export control regulations and
intellectual property rights. They committed to promoting the
responsible development and deployment of civil nuclear energy globally
by leveraging financing tools, building capacity in recipient countries,
and establishing a more resilient nuclear supply chain.  
   
President Yoon and President Biden commit to strengthen the U.S.-ROK
collaboration on research and development leading to increased
investment that promotes the growth of digital content and cloud
computing. The United States and the ROK acknowledge the importance of
the free flow of data with trust across borders through an open, global,
interoperable, reliable, and secure Internet. The Presidents view
high-standard digital trade rules as a path toward an open and fair
digital economy. Recognizing the importance of telecommunications
security and vendor diversity, the Presidents also commit to work
together to develop open, transparent, and secure 5G and 6G network
devices and architectures using Open RAN approaches, both at home and
abroad.  
   
**Expanding Cooperation Throughout the Indo-Pacific**  
   
The two Presidents recognized the importance of maintaining a free and
open Indo-Pacific that is connected, prosperous, secure, and resilient
and committed to strengthening mutual cooperation across the region. In
this regard, President Biden welcomed the ROK’s first Indo-Pacific
Strategy as a reflection of our shared regional commitment. The two
Presidents affirmed that the two countries will cooperate in
implementing their respective Indo-Pacific strategies and acknowledged
the importance of Indo-Pacific voices in multilateral forums, especially
in addressing climate change, sustainable energy access, and food
insecurity.  
   
The United States and the ROK are committed to an inclusive, free, and
fair trading system and to working with likeminded partners against
threats to ensure a prosperous future for the Alliance and the
Indo-Pacific region. We share deep concerns about and express opposition
to harmful uses of economic influence, including economic coercion as
well as use of opaque tools with respect to foreign firms, and will
cooperate with like-minded partners to counter economic coercion. The
two nations are committed to building regional partnerships and
coordinating measures to detect and address potential supply chain
disruptions and strengthen resiliency. The United States and the ROK
intend to provide resources for technical assistance, capacity building,
and other cooperative initiatives to support high-standard outcomes in
the Indo-Pacific Economic Framework and will make efforts to secure
related financial resources for these purposes. President Biden welcomed
President Yoon’s announcement that the ROK will host the fourth IPEF
negotiating round in Busan later this year. The two nations also
committed to further strengthen bilateral cooperation at the
Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum.  
   
The two Presidents emphasized the importance of U.S.-ROK-Japan
trilateral cooperation, guided by shared values, driven by innovation,
and committed to shared prosperity and security. President Biden
welcomed President Yoon’s bold steps toward improving ROK-Japan
relations and extended strong support for expanding ROK-Japan
collaboration, which opens the door to deeper trilateral cooperation on
regional and economic security. The Presidents welcomed the progress
made in sharing DPRK missile warning data in real-time and affirmed the
regularization of anti-submarine and missile defense exercises to deter
and respond to the DPRK’s advancing nuclear and missile threats more
effectively. They also discussed plans for restoring maritime
interdiction and anti-piracy exercises and identifying additional forms
of trilateral training for disaster relief and humanitarian
assistance.  
   
The Presidents reiterated the importance of preserving peace and
stability in the Taiwan Strait as an indispensable element of security
and prosperity in the region. They strongly opposed any unilateral
attempts to change the status quo in the Indo-Pacific, including through
unlawful maritime claims, the militarization of reclaimed features, and
coercive activities. President Yoon and President Biden also reaffirmed
their commitment to preserve unimpeded commerce, freedom of navigation
and overflight, and other lawful use of the sea, including in the South
China Sea and beyond, as reflected in the UN Convention on the Law of
the Sea.  
   
The two Presidents committed to increase cooperation with Southeast Asia
and the Pacific Island Countries to promote resilient health systems,
sustainable development, climate resilience and adaptation, energy
security, and digital connectivity. They shared a commitment to ASEAN
centrality as well as to enhancing cooperation on the provision of
regional development assistance—including through new staff exchanges
and peer-to-peer learning—and direct collaboration on programs,
particularly in the Mekong sub-region. Both Presidents reaffirmed their
commitment to contributing to the Pacific including through the Partners
in the Blue Pacific initiative as well as the ROK’s decision to host the
first Korea-Pacific Islands Summit in May.  
   
**Strengthening Ironclad Bilateral Collaboration**  
   
The U.S.-ROK relationship is marked by our longstanding investment,
trade, technological, and people-to-people ties, which have led to
significant economic opportunity and prosperity for both countries and
will continue to do so for the next 70 years. The United States and the
ROK committed to address trade concerns through the committees of the
U.S.-Korea Free Trade Agreement and other relevant channels, including
for semiconductors, steel, and other critical goods. The United States
and the ROK will continue to consult closely on foreign exchange market
developments to promote sustainable growth and financial stability, and
the two Presidents reaffirmed recognition of foreign exchange market
cooperation as discussed during meetings in May and September 2022.  
   
President Biden and President Yoon affirmed the need to make bold
investments to build clean energy economies and to build and strengthen
mutually beneficial supply chain ecosystems for our critical
technologies. In that regard, the two leaders appreciated the recent
efforts made by the ROK and the United States to alleviate concerns of
Korean businesses over the Inflation Reduction Act (IRA) and the CHIPS
and Science Act. The two Presidents committed to continue close
consultations with a view to ensuring those Acts encourage mutually
beneficial corporate investment in the United States by creating
predictable conditions for business activities. They also committed to
identifying opportunities for research and development collaboration in
the fields of leading-edge semiconductors, advanced packaging, and
advanced materials.  
   
The two Presidents pledged to further improve our economic security by
deepening and broadening cooperation on critical and emerging
technologies, including through the establishment of a Next Generation
Critical and Emerging Technologies Dialogue led by their National
Security Advisors. They committed to more closely aligning on the spirit
of digital technology standards and regulations to enhance public and
private cooperation on leading-edge semiconductors, batteries, and
quantum. They also noted cooperation on artificial intelligence (AI),
biotechnology, medical products using AI, and biomanufacturing. They
reaffirmed the importance of deepening cooperation between our foreign
investment screening and export control authorities, recognizing the
necessity to take appropriate measures to ensure national security,
while maintaining resilient global semiconductor supply chains and
keeping up with rapid technological advancement. The two Presidents
welcomed the signing of a joint statement on U.S.-ROK cooperation in
quantum information science and technology, and they called for efforts
to conclude a U.S.-ROK Reciprocal Defense Procurement Agreement to
strengthen cooperation in the global defense industry.  
   
President Yoon and President Biden recognized that the Alliance applies
to cyberspace and committed to establish a U.S.-ROK Strategic
Cybersecurity Cooperation Framework. The United States and the ROK
commit to using this framework to expand cooperation on deterring cyber
adversaries, increase the cybersecurity of critical infrastructure,
combat cybercrime, and secure cryptocurrency and blockchain
applications. The Presidents expressed concern regarding the DPRK’s
illicit cyber activities that fund its unlawful WMD and ballistic
missile programs and committed to expanding information sharing and
enhancing international awareness to combat DPRK cyber threats and block
its cyber-enabled revenue generation.  
   
Our Alliance also applies to space, and President Yoon and President
Biden committed to further strengthening the U.S.-ROK Alliance across
all sectors and through multiple channels of space cooperation. The two
Presidents welcomed the ROK’s intention to expand its investments in
space exploration and announced plans to study concepts for cooperation
on the exploration of the Moon and Mars. The United States welcomed the
ROK’s new Korea Aero Space Administration, anticipating collaborative
projects. Both sides called for strengthening U.S.-ROK commercial space
cooperation and welcomed the United States’ recent clarification of its
export control policies on satellites and satellite components, which
provides a foundation for expanded bilateral commercial and governmental
space cooperation. Both sides welcomed the potential for industrial
collaboration on future commercial space stations. The two Presidents
also welcomed deepening space security cooperation, including the ROK’s
commitment not to conduct destructive, direct-ascent anti-satellite
missile testing. Both sides will work towards advancing bilateral space
situational awareness cooperation in response to growing space risks and
threats, and ensuring a safe, secure, and sustainable space environment
through further development of norms of responsible behaviors.  
   
The United States and the ROK are committed to deepening their
people-to-people ties and educational cooperation for future generations
in the fields of humanities and social sciences, as well as science,
technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) with the shared
objective of fostering greater and deeper understanding through
excellence in education. The Presidents announced a new educational
exchange initiative amounting to $60 million, funded jointly, that aims
to serve 2,023 Koreans and 2,023 Americans, symbolic of the year 2023
and in commemoration of the 70th anniversary of the Alliance. The
initiative will include 200 grantees under the Fulbright scholarship
program, making it the largest number of grantees selected for STEM in
Fulbright’s history. President Biden and President Yoon noted that our
mutual prosperity and global competitiveness depends on our ability to
empower all our people, particularly women, to participate in and
contribute to our economy, in all sectors and at all levels.  
   
From developing resilient supply chains and investing in critical
technologies and strategic sectors, such as semiconductors and critical
minerals, to combating the climate crisis and accelerating the clean
energy transition—our two nations are deepening and broadening all
aspects of our relationship at a breakneck speed. These next 70 years of
the U.S.-ROK Alliance will be the brightest yet. President Biden and
President Yoon reaffirmed their joint commitments to working tirelessly
to broaden and deepen our ties as an Alliance in action toward the
future.  
   
President Yoon expressed his gratitude for President Biden’s warm
hospitality and extended an invitation for President Biden to visit the
ROK again at a time of mutual convenience.

\### 
