---
date: '2023-04-20'
modified_time: 2023-04-20 13:13:35-04:00
published_time: 2023-04-20 05:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/04/20/fact-sheet-president-biden-to-catalyze-global-climate-action-through-the-major-economies-forum-on-energy-and-climate/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: President\_Biden to Catalyze Global Climate Action through the\
  \ Major Economies Forum on Energy and\_Climate"
---
 
Today, President Biden will convene leaders of the Major Economies Forum
on Energy and Climate (MEF) for the fourth time since taking office to
galvanize efforts needed to tackle the climate crisis and keep a 1.5°C
limit on warming within reach.

At today’s meeting, the President will highlight new steps the United
States is taking to meet its ambitious 1.5°C-aligned goal of reducing
emissions 50-52 percent in 2030.  The President will also announce
significant new steps the United States is taking to support developing
countries in taking stronger climate action – including providing $1
billion to the Green Climate Fund and requesting $500 million for the
Amazon Fund and related activities – and invite other countries to join
the United States and others in fully leveraging the multilateral
development banks to better address global challenges, like climate
change.

The President will be joined by other leaders in new efforts aimed at
accelerating progress in four key areas necessary for keeping a 1.5°C
limit on warming within reach, specifically:

-   **Decarbonizing energy:**  Announcing steps to drive down emissions
    in the power and transportation sectors, including scaling up of
    clean energy, setting ambitious 2030 zero-emission vehicle goals,
    and decarbonizing international shipping.  
     
-   **Ending deforestation of the Amazon and other critical forests**:
     Working through the Forest and Climate Leaders’ Partnership to
    mobilize public, private, and philanthropic support.  
     
-   **Tackling potent, non-CO2 climate pollutants**:  Launching a
    Methane Finance Sprint to cut methane emissions and accelerating
    hydrofluorocarbon (HFC) phasedown under the Kigali Amendment.  
     
-   **Advancing carbon management**:  Partnering with countries to
    accelerate carbon capture, removal, use, and storage technologies
    through a COP 28 Carbon Management Challenge to deal with emissions
    that can’t otherwise be avoided.

To help frame the MEF discussion, leaders will be briefed by Dr. Fatih
Birol, Executive Director of the International Energy Agency (IEA), on
a [new
report ](https://www.iea.org/reports/credible-pathways-to-150c) to the
MEF highlighting why action in these areas between now and 2030 is
critical to preserve credible pathways to limit warming to 1.5 °C by
2100.

MEF economies account for roughly 80 percent of global GDP and global
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions.  Since being reconvened by President
Biden in April 2021, the MEF has helped galvanize the global climate
response, contributing to the progress achieved at the United Nations
Climate Conferences in Glasgow (COP 26) and Sharm El-Sheikh (COP 27). 

However, the most recent findings of the Intergovernmental Panel on
Climate Change underscore more urgently than ever that the window for
decisive action to avert the gravest consequences of climate change is
quickly narrowing. 

The President will highlight how the United States is addressing these
four priority areas at home through measures including the Inflation
Reduction Act – the largest U.S. investment ever in reducing U.S.
emissions, accelerating the clean energy economy, and protecting
communities from climate impacts – and how these efforts are creating
good-paying jobs and building a more secure and sustainable clean energy
economy.

In addition to partnering on new joint efforts, leaders are expected to
announce other new steps their countries are taking to fulfill their
nationally determined contributions under the Paris Agreement.  The
President will encourage those countries whose 2030 Paris targets are
not yet aligned with keeping 1.5 °C within reach to strengthen their
targets by COP 28 this November in Dubai.

**Strengthening Support for Climate Action in Developing Countries**

*Providing $1 Billion to the Green Climate Fund*

In 2021, President Biden pledged to work with Congress to quadruple U.S.
climate support for developing countries to more than $11 billion a year
by 2024.  As part of this broader effort, today, the President will
announce that the United States is providing $1 billion to the Green
Climate Fund (GCF), bringing total U.S. contributions to the GCF to $2
billion.

Since 2015, the GCF has approved over $12 billion for projects across
more than 125 developing countries to accelerate clean energy
transitions, build resilience in the most vulnerable countries, and
catalyze private investment.  These projects are expected to reduce 2.5
billion tons of emissions and increase the resilience of over 900
million people.  The GCF has a specific mandate to support countries
particularly vulnerable to the impacts of climate change, including
least developed countries, small island developing states, and African
nations.

*Mobilizing the Multilateral Development Banks to Usher in a New Era of
Clean Growth*

Following important steps taken last week by the World Bank, President
Biden will encourage leaders to support a strengthened effort this year
to fully leverage the capacity of the multilateral development banks
(MDBs) to address global challenges, including climate change, while
accelerating progress on reducing poverty and achieving the Sustainable
Development Goals.  The United States is working with the MDBs to evolve
their visions, incentive structures, operational approaches, and
financial capacity to better meet pressing global challenges.

**<u>Decarbonizing Energy</u>**

Succeeding in keeping the 1.5 °C goal within reach will require
accelerating progress in key energy-related sectors, such as electric
power and transportation.

***Putting the Power Sector on a Path to Net Zero Emissions***

Limiting warming to 1.5°C will require steep and immediate reductions in
energy sector CO2 emissions, including an accelerated scale up of clean
energy technologies to achieve net zero emissions by mid-century. 

President Biden has set an ambitious U.S. goal of achieving a carbon
pollution-free power sector by 2035 and net zero emissions economy by no
later than 2050.  As a result of the historic investments in the
Inflation Reduction Act and Bipartisan Infrastructure Law as well as
other actions the Administration is taking, the United States is on a
clear path to achieve this goal, while reducing costs for consumers,
lowering harmful pollutants, mitigating climate change, and creating new
economic opportunities.  Today, the U.S. released a new [National
Innovation Pathway
Report](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/04/US-National-Innovation-Pathway.pdf),
highlighting the Biden-Harris Administration’s all-hands-on-deck
strategy for accelerating key clean energy technology innovations.  The
Administration is advancing a three-pronged approach that prioritizes
innovation, demonstration, and deployment to scale the technologies the
United States needs to achieve its goals of a carbon pollution-free
electricity sector by no later than 2035 and a net-zero emissions
economy by no later than 2050.

To accelerate global progress, President Biden will invite leaders to
announce steps they are taking to put their energy sectors on a path
aligned with the 1.5 °C goal.

***Reducing Emission**s and Fossil Fuel Use by Accelerating
Zero-Emission Vehicle Deployment***

The transportation sector is a large and fast-growing source of
greenhouse gases globally.  Rapidly scaling up production and use of
zero emission vehicles (ZEVs) will slash emissions, reduce oil
dependence, strengthen energy security, protect economies from oil price
volatility, and accelerate the phaseout of unabated fossil fuels.
 Faster ZEV deployment will also improve public health by reducing
emissions of conventional pollutants.  Thanks to technology innovations,
the historic investments in the Inflation Reduction Act, and additional
investments made by automakers and throughout the battery supply chain,
the U.S. transportation sector is rapidly shifting towards zero emission
vehicles.

The Inflation Reduction Act contains new and expanded tax credits for
drivers to purchase new clean vehicles, as well as the first-ever tax
credits for purchasing used clean vehicles.  These tax provisions will
help make clean vehicles more accessible and affordable for American
families while incentivizing automakers to build secure, reliable,
trusted supply chains for the critical minerals and batteries contained
in those vehicles.

Last week, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency proposed new vehicle
emissions standards that would build on this progress and accelerate the
ongoing transition to a clean vehicle future.  The EPA projects that,
under the proposed standards, electric vehicles could account for 67% of
new light-duty vehicle (LDV) sales and 46% of new medium-duty vehicle
sales in model year 2032.  This would avoid nearly 10 billion tons of
CO<sub>2</sub> emissions through 2055 (equivalent to nearly twice the
total U.S. CO<sub>2</sub> emissions in 2022), save the average consumer
$12,000 over the lifetime of a light-duty vehicle, reduce oil imports by
approximately 20 billion barrels, and improve air quality, especially in
communities that have borne the burden of polluted air. 

To accelerate this transition globally, President Biden will invite
leaders to join the United States in a collective goal aiming to ensure
that by 2030 over 50 percent of LDVs and at least 30 percent of medium-
and heavy-duty vehicles (MHDVs) sold globally will be zero-emissions
vehicles (e.g., battery electric, fuel cell electric, and plug-in hybrid
vehicles).  Countries joining in the collective goal will set their own
national 2030 LDV and MHDV market share goals by COP 28.

***Decarbonizing International Shipping***

Greenhouse gas emissions from the shipping sector are significant,
increasing, and incompatible with limiting global temperature rise to
1.5 °C.  If shipping were a “country,” it would be among the top ten
largest emitters.  As part of the Green Shipping Challenge highlighted
at last year’s MEF leaders meeting, countries, ports, and companies
offered more than 40 concrete announcements at COP 27 on the steps they
are taking this decade to help put the shipping sector on a path to
align with the 1.5 °C goal.

In July, the International Maritime Organization (IMO) will adopt a
Revised IMO Greenhouse Gas Strategy to accelerate efforts to decarbonize
shipping.  Today, President Biden will ask leaders to join the United
States in supporting the IMO’s adoption of 1.5 °C-aligned goals for the
sector, including a goal of zero emissions from international shipping
no later than 2050.

**<u>Ending Deforestation of the Amazon and Other Critical Forests</u>**

Ending forest loss, particularly in the tropics, is vital for limiting
warming to 1.5 °C.  The Glasgow Leaders Declaration on Forests and Land
Use calls for halting and reversing forest loss and land degradation by
2030.  The United States is taking decisive action to prevent
deforestation at home and abroad, as called for in the President’s
Executive Order on “Strengthening the Nation’s Forests, Communities, and
Local Economies.”

***Contributing to Brazil’s Amazon Fund ***

Today, the President will announce that he will request $500 million
over five years for the Amazon Fund and related activities in the
context of Brazil’s renewed commitment to end deforestation by 2030. The
President also will call on other leaders to pledge support to the
Amazon Fund.

The U.S. Development Finance Corporation is also announcing today that
it is working on a $50 million debt investment in BTG Pactual’s
Restoration Strategy, which would help mobilize $1 billion to support
the restoration of nearly 300,000 hectares of degraded lands in Brazil,
Uruguay, and Chile.  Conservation International will serve as the impact
advisor on the pathbreaking project, which will set aside half the
restored lands for permanent protection, with the other half to be
managed for sustainable forestry, generating an estimated 35 million
tonnes of carbon sequestration over 15 years.

***Marshalling Global Action to Stop Deforestation***

The Forest and Climate Leaders’ Partnership (FCLP), which was launched
at COP 27 and is co-led by the United States, aims to mobilize stronger
action to end deforestation and to strengthen support from donor
governments, philanthropy, the private sector, and multilateral finance
institutions. To help protect other critical forest basins around the
globe, President Biden will call on other leaders to join the United
States in committing to work through the FCLP this year to coordinate
and catalyze investment and support by COP 28 to advance implementation
of ambitious forest, climate, and nature actions in forest countries.

To further advance the President’s commitments on combatting
international deforestation associated with agriculture commodity
production and the reduction of global deforestation, the U.S.
government is working to identify potential approaches to address
globally traded commodities associated with international deforestation
as well as identify potential action to reduce global deforestation, as
called for in the President’s Executive Order.

***Leading at Home by Strengthening America’s Forests***

America’s forests play a key role in achieving our domestic climate
goals, absorbing carbon dioxide equivalent to more than 10% of U.S.
annual greenhouse gas emissions.  To advance the President’s commitment
to strengthening America’s forests, today the U.S. is announcing
critical new steps to better manage our domestic forests for climate
resilience, following the completion of a first-ever nationwide
inventory of old and mature forests.  
  
**<u>Tackling Potent Non-CO2 Climate Pollutants</u>**

In addition to cutting CO<sub>2</sub>, rapid reductions of other GHG
emissions are essential to keep 1.5 °C within reach.  Methane and other
non-CO<sub>2</sub> GHGs are potent climate pollutants with short
atmospheric lifetimes.  Rapidly reducing them would have an outsized
impact on near-term warming.

***Accelerating Methane Action **to Reduce Global Warming by at least
0.2 degrees Celsius by 2050***

Since being introduced by the United States and the European Union at
the MEF leaders meeting in September 2021, 150 countries have now joined
the Global Methane Pledge, with the goal of cutting anthropogenic
methane emissions at least 30 percent by 2030.  More than 50 countries
have developed, or are developing, national methane action plans, and
many new projects are underway to drive methane reductions in the key
sectors of fossil energy, waste, and agriculture and food.

To support and accelerate these efforts, President Biden will invite
other countries to join the United States in a new Methane Finance
Sprint with the aim of scaling up methane finance, including by raising
at least $200 million in new public and philanthropic donor support for
developing countries by COP 28.  Philanthropies have committed to
dedicate $100 million in new funding through the Global Methane Hub
towards the $200 million goal.  To complement these efforts, the private
sector and other financial institutions will also be invited to join
this effort.  The President also will invite leaders to report on steps
their countries are taking to strengthen their national methane
reduction efforts.

***Expediting the Phasedown of Super-Polluting HFCs to Avoid up to Half
a degree Celsius of Warming by 2100***

Hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), widely used in refrigeration and
air-conditioning, are thousands of times more powerful as greenhouse
gases than CO<sub>2</sub>.  In October, with bipartisan Senate support,
the United States ratified the Kigali Amendment to the Montreal
Protocol, which aims to phase down global production and consumption of
HFCs.  Other countries participating in today’s MEF meeting that have
ratified Kigali over the past year include Brazil, Egypt, Indonesia,
Italy, and the Republic of Korea.

Full implementation of the Kigali Amendment could avoid up to half a
degree of warming by 2100.  According to the U.N. Environment Programme,
fully seizing opportunities to improve the energy efficiency of cooling
appliances alongside HFC phasedown could as much as double the Kigali
Amendment’s climate benefits.

To promote rapid implementation of the Kigali Amendment, President Biden
will call on other countries to ratify the amendment as soon as
possible, consider expedited timelines for their phasedown of HFCs, and
pledge support to use the Montreal Protocol Multilateral Fund to
incentivize early action on HFCs and maximize parallel cooling
efficiency improvements.

**<u>Accelerating Carbon Capture and Removal Technologies</u>**

In addition to full-scale mitigation efforts – including accelerated
deployment of clean energy, ending deforestation, and cutting
non-CO<sub>2</sub> emissions – keeping a 1.5 °C warming limit within
reach will require responsible deployment of carbon capture,
utilization, and storage (CCUS) and carbon dioxide removal (CDR)
technologies.  CCUS has a critical role to play in decarbonizing the
global economy, particularly the industrial sector, where process
emissions are more difficult to address.  Combating climate change will
also require addressing legacy emissions and removing
CO<sub>2</sub> from the ambient air, through CDR.  The IEA estimates
that roughly 1.2 Gt of CCUS and CDR will be needed by 2030 to limit
warming to 1.5°C.  If global temperature rise exceeds 1.5°C, the use of
CDR to remove CO<sub>2 </sub>from the atmosphere will be necessary to
return global temperatures to 1.5 °C by the end of the century. 

***Dealing with Emissions that Can’t Otherwise be Avoided***

To accelerate these critical technologies, the Inflation Reduction Act
provides tax credits of $85 per tonne of CO<sub>2</sub> captured and
stored and $180 for every tonne of CO<sub>2</sub> removed through direct
air capture and permanently stored.  In addition, President Biden’s
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law included over $12 billion in investments
in next-generation carbon capture, direct air capture, integrated CCUS
demonstrations, and industrial emissions reduction demonstration
projects, as well as CO<sub>2</sub> transport and storage
infrastructure.

To build on these efforts, the President will invite other countries to
join the Carbon Management Challenge, with the aim of unveiling at COP
28 a suite of concrete announcements and goals that will accelerate CCUS
and CDR internationally.

Throughout Earth Week, President Biden, Vice President Harris and other
Cabinet-level officials are holding events and announcing commitments
focused on how the President’s Investing in America agenda is powering
an American manufacturing and clean energy boom, lowering prices,
creating good-paying jobs in clean energy industries, meeting our
climate goals, and advancing environmental justice and conservation.

\###
