---
date: '2023-04-03'
modified_time: 2023-04-03 05:34:41-04:00
published_time: 2023-04-03 06:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/04/03/joint-statement-on-u-s-eu-task-force-on-energy-security/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Joint Statement on U.S.-EU Task Force on Energy\_Security"
---
 
*Progress report and outlook 2022-2023*  

**1. ACCOMPLISHMENTS AND MILESTONES**  
  
One year ago this week, the United States and the European Union (EU)
stood up a joint U.S.-EU Task Force on Energy Security launched by
President Biden and President von der Leyen. The Task Force has made
major progress in meeting its goals to reduce the EU’s reliance on
Russian energy, including by diversifying its natural gas supplies in
alignment with its climate objectives and reducing its overall demand
for natural gas.   
  
The United States more than doubled its target to ensure delivery of an
additional 15 billion cubic meters (bcm) of liquefied natural gas (LNG)
to the EU. Last year, U.S. exports to the EU were 56 bcm, up from
22 bcm in 2021. The EU was the largest destination for U.S. LNG exports,
accounting for more than 52 percent of supplies. At the end of 2022,
Russian gas accounted for only 16 percent of the EU’s gas imports, down
from 37 percent in March 2022.   
  
Between August 2022 and January 2023, the EU reduced its overall demand
of natural gas by 19 percent, including by lowering electricity use,
improving energy efficiency in the residential sector, identifying new
digital solutions to help consumers save money, and completing other
demand-side measures.  
  
The U.S.-EU Task Force on Energy Security builds on long-standing,
transatlantic cooperation under the U.S.-EU Energy Council and is
an outcome of the joint commitment to reduce the EU’s dependency on
Russian energy and accelerate the global transition to clean energy in
the wake of unjustified and unprovoked Russian military aggression on
Ukraine. The United States and the EU are committed to meeting the goals
of the Paris Agreement, achieving the objective of net zero emissions by
2050, and keeping a 1.5 degrees Celsius limit on temperature rise within
reach.  
  
The Task Force provides an important platform for a regular
exchange of information between the United States and the European
Commission. To that end, the Task Force monitors the energy security
situation in the EU and neighbouring countries, and progress on reducing
dependence on fossil fuels. The Task Force has discussed global LNG
markets and market projections, the regulatory environment and
permitting outlook in the United States and the EU, the development of
U.S. LNG export capacities, the reinforcement of EU LNG infrastructure,
and the EU Energy Platform and Joint Purchasing. Further, the Task
Force has helped to identify solutions for addressing emergency energy
security objectives in the EU to ensure appropriate levels of gas
storage ahead of winter seasons.   
  
Recognizing that clean energy as well as energy efficiency, and demand
flexibility measures are essential to enhancing energy security and
accelerating the energy transition, the Task Force has exchanged
information on policy and market solutions to accelerate the deployment
of energy efficiency technology, heat pumps, smart thermostats and
related awareness raising activities among consumers and relevant
stakeholders. The Task Force also discussed solutions for reducing gas
and electricity use and costs through flexible demand response
mechanisms that reward customers for reducing or shifting their energy
usage.   
  
The meetings of the Task Force are chaired by Björn Seibert, Head of
Cabinet of the European Commission President, and Amos
Hochstein, U.S. Senior Advisor for Energy
Security. Ditte Juul Jørgensen, European Commission Director General for
Energy, and Sarah Ladislaw, Special Assistant to the President and
Senior Director for Climate and Energy at the White House National
Security Council also play a leadership role. The Task Force reports to
President von der Leyen and President Biden. The meetings of the Task
Force are also attended by senior representatives of the U.S. Department
of State, the U.S. Department of Energy, the European Commission
Directorate General of Energy as well as by representatives of the
European External Action Service. These meetings also include private
sector representatives and NGOs to hear diverse perspectives that are
important for these topics.   
  
**2. NEXT STEPS AND OUTLOOK**  
  
During 2023, the Task Force will continue to focus on the energy market
shocks and high energy prices caused by Putin’s war of aggression
against Ukraine. Russia uses energy as a weapon to undermine European
security. Task Force priorities for 2023 will include: 1) continuous
assessments of LNG markets and ensuring U.S. LNG deliveries to Europe of
50 bcm in 2023, 2) reduction of methane emissions, and 3) energy
savings and efficiency measures.   
  
In the coming months, the Task Force will continue to work on keeping a
high level of U.S. LNG supplies to Europe in 2023 of at least 50 bcm.
This is necessary given the challenging supply situation and the need to
ensure storage filling for the next winter 2023-24.   
  
The EU Energy Platform will launch its first joint tenders
under the Aggregate EU, a new means of demand aggregation and joint
purchasing, in May 2023. Such tenders will be open to
all non-Russian gas sellers. The Task Force has facilitated
engagement with the U.S. LNG industry on the EU Energy Platform and its
upcoming implementation to attract U.S. LNG to Europe.   
  
Further, the Task Force will help to implement U.S. and EU efforts to
reduce methane emissions, both in bilateral trade and at the global
level, by supporting domestic and international measures to promote
increased monitoring, reporting, and verification, as well as
transparency, for methane emissions data in the fossil fuel sector. As
discussed at the Task Force meeting in November 2022, both sides also
plan to pursue initiatives to reduce flaring, venting, and leakage in
oil and gas value chains, including through innovative purchasing
frameworks to incentivize the capture of this gas to bring to market
such as the EU’s proposed “you collect, we buy” approach. The Task Force
will further facilitate these efforts to reduce methane emissions and
increase the liquidity of natural gas that minimizes flaring, methane,
and CO2 emissions across the value chain.  
  
Recognizing the importance of energy efficiency and demand flexibility
as key contributors to enhancing energy security, the United States and
the European Commission are preparing a series of further
sub-dialogues in the energy savings work stream. Starting in early 2023,
the sub-dialogues will explore deeper cooperation and ways
to incentivize utilities and consumers to implement short- and
medium-term energy efficiency solutions for reducing electricity and gas
use, shifting demand from peak to off-peak hours, and targeted digital
solutions to help save consumers money on their bills.    
  
The Task Force also will facilitate the exchange of best practices on
energy savings and energy efficiency schemes and organize a dedicated
conversation around implemented and planned policies for demand response
by EU Member States. These measures will build on Europe’s impressive
success in reducing its energy use as a means of enhancing its energy
security. Europe has demonstrated notable progress in completing
large-scale clean energy infrastructure projects on an accelerated
timeline to respond to the energy crisis, and the Task Force will
explore opportunities to share best practices to ensure the continued
rapid deployment of large-scale clean energy technologies throughout the
EU. In addition, both sides intend to organize a high-level Business
Roundtable on Energy Savings and Renewables on 3 April 2023 in
connection with the Task Force and back-to-back with the U.S.-EU Energy
Council on 4 April 2023.   
  
The Task Force will continue its work as determined by President von der
Leyen and President Biden at their meeting on 10 March 2023.

\###
