---
date: '2023-04-14'
modified_time: 2023-04-14 12:51:31-04:00
published_time: 2023-04-14 12:51:30-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/04/14/what-they-are-saying-members-of-congress-local-leaders-immigration-advocates-and-more-celebrate-the-biden-administrations-expansion-of-the-affordable-care-act-to-daca-recipients/
tags: statements-releases
title: "WHAT THEY ARE SAYING: Members of Congress, Local Leaders, Immigration Advocates\
  \ and More Celebrate the Biden Administration\u2019s Expansion of the Affordable\
  \ Care Act to DACA\_Recipients"
---
 
Yesterday, President Biden announced a plan to expand health coverage
for DACA recipients. If finalized, the rule would allow DACA recipients
to enroll in Medicaid, the Children’s Health Insurance Programs, and the
Affordable Care Act’s Health Insurance Marketplaces, where they may
qualify for financial assistance based on income, and through their
state Medicaid agency. 

President Biden believes that DACA recipients strengthen our economy and
enrich our workplaces, our schools and communities, and our country as a
whole. That’s why on his first day in office, he called on Congress to
give Dreamers a pathway to citizenship and he has repeated that call in
every State of the Union address since. 

While Congress has failed to act, the Biden-Harris Administration has
taken significant measures to protect Dreamers.  

*See below for what they are saying:*

***Congressional Leaders***

**Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer:** “Dreamers deserve access to
health coverage in the only country they call home. I applaud President
Biden for this highly impactful policy change that will improve the
lives of so many!”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenSchumer/status/1646586099928629268),
4/13/23\]

**Senate Majority Whip Dick Durbin:** “DACA holders are American in
every way but their paperwork and are an important part of our nation &
our economy. Extending ACA health insurance options to them is humane
and simply common sense. Congress’ decades long failure to do the right
thing for Dreamers is inexcusable.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenatorDurbin/status/1646541189926076424),
4/13/23\]  

**Senator Bob Menendez: **“I’m glad to see the Biden Administration
taking steps to recognize that DACA recipients have been waiting for
over decade for Republicans to come to the table to give them a path to
citizenship.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenatorMenendez/status/1646592618124509185),
4/13/23\] 

**Speaker Emerita Nancy Pelosi:** “Our Dreamers enrich their communities
and make America more American. As Democrats fight for a pathway to
citizenship for Dreamers, we commend President Biden for ensuring their
access to quality, affordable health care.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/TeamPelosi/status/1646558880116113433?s=20),
4/13/23\]

**Democratic Caucus Chair Pete
Aguilar:** “The [@HispanicCaucus](https://twitter.com/HispanicCaucus/) has
long fought for this, and today, the Biden-Harris Administration is
taking a life-changing step forward for DACA recipients, who deserve
access to good health care in the only country they call home.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepPeteAguilar/status/1646596251935297548),
4/13/23\] 

**Congressional Hispanic Caucus Chair and California U.S. Rep. Nanette
Barragan:** “Thank you [@POTUS](https://twitter.com/POTUS/) for
listening, hearing us, & delivering! And thank you to the DACA
recipients & advocates who have fought for years to simply have access
to the healthcare they deserve. A huge step forward for our
communities!”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepBarragan/status/1646603310835683335),
4/13/23\] 

**Congressional Hispanic Caucus:** “Today, we applaud President Biden’s
decision to provide more equitable access to health care to
hundreds-of-thousands of Latinos in our communities and throughout the
country. This decision also marks a significant accomplishment for the
CHC. This change in policy has been a priority for the CHC and we have
pushed multiple Administrations to provide access to quality,
affordable, health care for DACA recipients. This morning, the hard work
of the CHC, our members, and DACA recipients and advocates has paid off.
The change CHC fought for is finally underway. As a result of this
change, approximately 600,000 DACA recipients and their U.S. citizen
children will be able to secure and purchase health insurance through
the ACA. Access to ACA and Medicaid benefits will allow a significant
number of Latinos to improve their quality of life, obtain affordable,
quality health care, and make way for a healthier future for our
communities. We thank the Biden-Harris Administration for their
commitment to Latino communities who have historically been
disadvantaged when it comes to accessing health care. We also ask the
Department of Health and Human Services to act with urgency and
implement the changes as soon as possible so that DACA recipients can
quickly access the benefits that – as taxpayers – they have earned.”
\[[Statement](https://chc.house.gov/media-center/press-releases/chc-applauds-president-biden-decision-to-provide-daca-recipients-access),
4/13/23\]

**Senator Michael Bennet:** “I applaud the Biden administration’s plan
to expand health coverage for DACA recipients. For many Dreamers,
America is the only country they know as home. They deserve the same
opportunities and support as everyone else.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenatorBennet/status/1646626734052081664), 4/13/23\]

**Senator Cory Booker: **“Expanding health care coverage to DACA
Recipients is the right thing to do. I applaud the Biden administration
for acting on our letter last fall calling for this expansion.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenBooker/status/1646608482274103314),
4/13/23\] 

**Senator Catherine Cortez Masto: **“I have been working with the Biden
administration to open health care exchanges to DACA recipients, and I’m
pleased to see this effort pay off today. For many DACA recipients,
America is the only home they’ve ever known – and I will always stand up
to support and protect them.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenCortezMasto/status/1646520343279054851),
4/13/23\] 

**Senator Jacky Rosen: **“Dreamers are vital members of our community,
and they deserve the same access to affordable, quality health care as
everyone else. I applaud this announcement, which will allow thousands
of DACA recipients living in Nevada to receive affordable health care.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenJackyRosen/status/1646600492628287488),
4/13/23\] 

**Senator Tina Smith: **“BREAKING: President Biden is expanding health
insurance coverage to DACA recipients! Millions of Dreamers have called
our country home since they were too young to remember anywhere else.
They deserve EVERY opportunity to succeed and live a healthy life here
in America.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenTinaSmith/status/1646550680142749697?s=20),
4/13/23\]  

**Senator Alex Padilla: **“Everybody deserves access to affordable and
reliable health care—including immigrants. Today’s announcement from the
White House is a huge win for DACA recipients. Thank you for taking
action, [@POTUS](https://twitter.com/POTUS/).”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenAlexPadilla/status/1646622828429443072),
4/13/23\]

**Rep. Joaquin Castro:** “Since the beginning of the Biden
administration, I’ve been pushing HHS to extend ACA, Medicaid, and CHIP
access to DACA recipients who were unfairly excluded. Today, the
administration announced that DACA recipients will soon be eligible for
the same care as their neighbors.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/JoaquinCastrotx/status/1646517226575642633),
4/13/23\] 

**Rep. Sheila Cherfilus-McCormick:** “This is a huge win & the first
immigration action from our 2023 CPC Executive Action Agenda!”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/CongresswomanSC/status/1646537416444977152?s=20),
4/13/23\]

**Rep. Judy Chu:** “Ecstatic at
today’s [@POTUS](https://twitter.com/POTUS/) announcement
that [@HHSGov](https://twitter.com/HHSGov/) will extend Medicaid and
Affordable Care Act coverage
to [\#DACA](https://twitter.com/search?q=%23DACA) recipients. This is
life changing and in some cases lifesaving for Dreamers who deserve
health care like everyone else in America!”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepJudyChu/status/1646573992868818944),
4/13/23\] 

**Rep. Yvette Clarke: **“Thank you, [@POTUS](https://twitter.com/POTUS).
Healthcare is a human right. Extending the ACA’s health insurance
options to lifelong Americans is a commonsense decision that Congress
has a responsibility to follow with a pathway to citizenship. It’s what
Dreamers deserve!”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepYvetteClarke/status/1646561284626710554?s=20),
4/13/23\]

**Rep. Emmanuel Cleaver:** “All of our neighbors deserve affordable
healthcare, including Dreamers who contribute so much to our
communities. Thankful to @POTUS for taking this step. Now, let’s
continue working to pass the American Dream and Promise Act into law!”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/repcleaver/status/1646573534372659204),
4/13/23\]

**Rep. Adriano Espaillat: **“I
commend [@POTUS ](https://twitter.com/POTUS)for expanding health
coverage for DACA recipients. Dreamers are integral to our communities
and economy. We must ensure they are able to live healthy and enriched
lives as they continue to make our communities and nation a more vibrant
place for all.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepEspaillat/status/1646556525572259842),
4/13/23\] 

**Rep. Ruben Gallego: **“Last year, I pushed the Biden Admin. to make
ACA, Medicaid, and CHIP accessible to DACA recipients who have been
unfairly excluded. Today, we are one step closer to making that a
reality. Next up: Comprehensive immigration reform that finally fixes
our deeply broken system.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepRubenGallego/status/1646578059334615054),
4/13/23\] 

**Rep. John
Garamendi: **“[\#Dreamers](https://twitter.com/search?q=%23Dreamers) are
American in every way but on paper. They are neighbors, colleagues,
family, and friends who enrich our nation.
Today, [@POTUS](https://twitter.com/POTUS/) took historic action to
expand healthcare coverage for \#DACA recipients. I applaud him for his
leadership. Healthcare is a right, not a privilege. Democrats in
Congress and the Biden Administration understand this, and today’s
announcement will improve the health outcomes for Dreamers and provide
much-needed comfort and security as we continue pursuing a pathway to
citizenship.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepGaramendi/status/1646601553531359241) [Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepGaramendi/status/1646601555397824527),
4/13/23\]  

**Rep. Chuy Garcia:** “This is a victory hard won by activists and our
communities. It will save lives and ensure DACA recipients have access
to care. But we know that DACA is still under attack. We must keep doing
all we can to fight for a pathway to citizenship for all immigrant
communities.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepChuyGarcia/status/1646564889794576401),
4/13/23\]  

**Rep Raul Grijalva:** “I’ve long said illness does not discriminate on
the basis of documentation. Now, thanks to @POTUS , thousands of young
aspiring Americans will now be able to obtain health care. This decision
is a moral victory and the right one by the Biden administration.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepRaulGrijalva/status/1646559630661648393?s=20),
4/13/23\]

**Rep. Pramila Jayapal:** “Health care is a human right, and DACA
recipients deserve access to that care just like everyone else. Glad to
see the Biden Administration move to provide coverage to them and take a
long overdue step toward justice.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepJayapal/status/1646550294275162117),
4/13/23\]  

**Rep. Gregory Meeks: **“The [@POTUS](https://twitter.com/POTUS/)‘
announcement today is a step toward providing DACA recipients with the
opportunities and support they need to excel. Health care should be a
right, not a privilege.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepGregoryMeeks/status/1646604718834176027),
4/13/23\] 

**Rep. Delia Ramirez: **“Good news for
Dreamers! [@POTUS ](https://twitter.com/POTUS)announced [@HHSGov ](https://twitter.com/HHSGov)will
put forth a proposed rule to expand health coverage
for [\#DACA](https://twitter.com/hashtag/DACA?src=hashtag_click) recipients.
We have more to do for Dreamers and the broader immigrant community —
this is a great next step!”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/repdeliaramirez/status/1646613292691988482),
4/13/23\]

**Rep. Raul Ruiz:** “I applaud @POTUS ‘s action to expand health care
access to Dreamers under \#ACA. Dreamers are professionals & essential
workers who create jobs, contribute to our economy, serve in our
military, & protect our health. Their health & contributions are
important to me and our nation.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepRaulRuizMD/status/1646548533837799426?s=20),
4/13/23\]

**Rep. Linda Sanchez:** “For millions of Dreamers, the United States is
the only home they’ve ever known. And they have made this country a
better place every single day they’ve lived here. I applaud @POTUS for
making sure they have access to health coverage. Next stop:
citizenship.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepLindaSanchez/status/1646541043171565569?s=20),
4/13/23\]

**Rep. Jan Schakowsky:** “Health care is a human right. I’m thrilled the
Biden administration has taken this momentous step to support our
Dreamers. This is an effort I have been a longtime advocate for in
Congress. Next stop: a pathway to citizenship!”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/janschakowsky/status/1646548375351730176?s=20),
4/13/23\]

**Rep. Adam Schiff: **“President Biden’s plan to expand health care for
Dreamers is crucial. By offering comprehensive coverage to DACA
recipients, we can help bridge the healthcare disparities gap. No one
should go without quality, affordable health care in our country.”
\[[Twitter](https://twitter.com/RepAdamSchiff/status/1646582682820771849),
4/13/23\] 

**Rep. Adam Smith:** “I applaud this action by the Biden Administration
to expand health care coverage for DACA recipients. Health care is a
basic human right and should be accessible and affordable for all.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepAdamSmith/status/1646579278451015690),
4/13/23\] 

**Rep. Dina Titus: **“DACA recipients are our friends, neighbors, and
colleagues. They deserve a shot at the American dream and access to
quality health care. The Administration’s action today is the right
one.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/repdinatitus/status/1646563567313748000),
4/13/23\] 

**Rep. Ritchie Torres: **“Thank
you [@POTUS](https://twitter.com/POTUS/) for expanding health coverage
for DACA recipients. Health care is a human right — not a privilege. And
by extending coverage to thousands of Dreamers, we can help them live
healthier, fuller lives as they continue to greatly enrich our vibrant
communities.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepRitchie/status/1646530910978965505),
4/13/23\]  

**Rep. Nydia Velazquez:** “Dreamers are our friends, neighbors, and
colleagues. They pay billions of $ a year in taxes and have the same
right to healthcare as every other American. I
applaud [@POTUS](https://twitter.com/POTUS/) for this announcement,
which will ensure that 100s of thousands
of [\#DACA](https://twitter.com/search?q=%23DACA) recipients can access
healthcare.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/NydiaVelazquez/status/1646590375652368384),
4/13/23\] 

**Congressional Progressive Caucus:** “NEWS: @POTUS just announced plans
to grant health insurance coverage eligibility to DACA recipients. This
is a long overdue step for immigrant justice. It’s also the first
immigrant-focused action the Biden administration has taken from our
2023 CPC Executive Action Agenda.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/USProgressives/status/1646527605842272264?s=20),
4/13/23\]  

***State and Local Leaders***

**California Governor Gavin Newsom: **“President Biden is stepping up to
ensure greater access to health care for DACA recipients – who
contribute greatly to our country – building on California’s leadership.
Today’s news is a victory for the over 200,000 DACA recipients who call
California home. However, it is crucial for Republicans in Congress to
take action and finally create a meaningful pathway to citizenship.
California is stronger and more vibrant because of our diversity, and we
believe all residents should have access to high-quality health care,
regardless of age, income, or immigration status, the fiscally sound
move and it leads to better health outcomes and quality of life.”
\[[Statement](https://www.gov.ca.gov/2023/04/13/governor-newsom-on-biden-administration-announcement-expanding-health-care-access-to-daca-recipients/),
4/13/23\]

**California Governor Gavin Newsom:** “In California, we believe that
all residents should have access to high-quality health care, regardless
of age, income, or immigration status. We
applaud [@POTUS](https://twitter.com/POTUS/)‘ commitment to ensuring
greater access to health care – building on California’s leadership.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/CAgovernor/status/1646620804543836161),
4/13/23\]

**California State Senator Maria Elena Durazo: **“Although DACA
recipients legally work and pay taxes in the U.S.A., they have been
denied health insurance benefits for far too long. Biden to expand DACA
immigrants’ access to health plans, officials say”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenMariaEDurazo/status/1646578721514725376),
4/13/23\] 

**Chicago Mayor Lori Lightfoot: **“I applaud the Biden administration
for their continued support of DACA recipients by expanding resources
that will protect their health & well-being, & providing them the same
opportunity others have to access medical care. Chicago is home to
thousands of DACA recipients & Dreamers. They are essential workers,
teachers, civic leaders, & small business owners, all of whom have built
a home & planted roots in our great City. I join President Biden’s
urgent call to Congress to work together to provide a pathway to
citizenship for Dreamers, & I will continue to advocate for
comprehensive immigration reform.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/chicagosmayor/status/1646625097216851969), 4/13/23\]

**Illinois Governor JB Pritzker**: “Great news from @POTUS! Health care
is a right for everyone, no matter their immigration status. I’m
celebrating this life-changing policy with Dreamers whose only home
they’ve known is the US. Just like this nation welcomed my immigrant
great-grandfather, Illinois welcomes you.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/GovPritzker/status/1646657093389242368),
4/13/23\]

**Los Angeles, California County Supervisor Hilda Solis**: “DACA
recipients deserve access to quality and affordable healthcare. I
commend [@POTUS](https://twitter.com/POTUS/) for continuing to stand for
what is right and extending this human right to Dreamers. Here
in [@CountyofLA](https://twitter.com/CountyofLA/), we will continue to
do our part to ensure all residents, regardless of where they’re from,
have access to the lifesaving care they need. (2/2)” \[[Twitter
Thread](https://twitter.com/HildaSolis/status/1646554690719723520),
4/13/23\] 

**Maryland** **Governor Wes Moore: **“I want to applaud the Biden
Administration for their efforts to protect Dreamers in our country.
Having come from a family of immigrants, this is a deeply personal issue
for me. Pres. Biden has time and time again shown his commitment to
protecting this community. Now, healthcare options will now be expanded
for over 7,000 Marylanders who are current DACA recipients, making them
eligible for Medicaid & Affordable Care Act coverage for the first time.
This proposal will have a significant impact on the lives of so many
Marylanders and dreamers across the country.” \[[Twitter
Thread](https://twitter.com/GovWesMoore/status/1646563869085810689),
4/13/23\] 

**National Hispanic Caucus of State Legislators (NHCSL): **“Dreamers are
Americans. They deserve access to health and a pathway to citizenship.
At the request of Senator @SANDRISCANO our Healthcare Task Force is
expected to pass an Emergency Resolution today supporting President
Biden’s proposed rule. @almaforarizona @NYSenatorRivera”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/NHCSL/status/1646548737609564169?s=20),
4/13/23\]

**New York City Mayor Eric Adams: **“We
applaud [@POTUS](https://twitter.com/POTUS/) for taking this step. In
NYC, this means 30,000+ DACA recipients eligible for affordable health
care coverage can take care of their physical health and have peace of
mind. Let’s get this done!”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/NYCMayor/status/1646608634292445186),
4/13/23\] 

**New York Attorney General Tish James**:
“[@POTUS ](https://twitter.com/POTUS)is right, health care should be a
right, not a privilege, and that includes DACA recipients. This is a big
deal, and I’m grateful this administration is fighting to give DACA
recipients the rights they deserve.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/TishJames/status/1646533661313884160),
4/13/23\] 

**New York Governor Kathy Hochul: **“Immigrant communities make our
state stronger, and in New York, we’ve made sure our Dreamers can access
quality affordable health care. Thank you @POTUS for taking this major
step to build on our progress — providing the same support and stability
to Dreamers nationwide.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/GovKathyHochul/status/1646582665263423488),
4/13/23\]   

***Immigration Advocates and Advocacy Organizations ***

**Greisa Martinez, Executive Director, United We Dream: **“BIG NEWS!!
Years in the making! This is a testament to the power of steadfast
organizing people & votes and staying ready to govern. Join
@UNITEDWEDREAM⁩ as we continue to organize for the freedom to thrive.”
\[[Tweet,](https://twitter.com/GreisaMartinez/status/1646508615837138945) 4/13/23\]

**FWD.us **“Thank you, @POTUS, for taking this step! Once in effect this
proposed rule will allow DACA recipients to access vital healthcare
services and stay healthy and care for their loved ones, all while
continuing to contribute to our economy and communities.”
\[[Tweet,](https://twitter.com/FWDus/status/1646529025870028804) 4/13/23\]

**Maria Praeli, Deputy Director of Government Relations & Coalitions,
FWD.us: **“Today’s announcement from President Biden is welcome news and
an important step to ensure that hundreds of thousands of DACA
recipients like me can access vital healthcare services via the
Affordable Care Act and Medicare. Once in effect, this proposed rule
will empower DACA recipients who’ve grown up in the United States to
stay healthy and care for themselves and their loved ones, all while
continuing to contribute to our economy and to communities across the
country.”
\[[Statement](https://www.fwd.us/news/fwd-us-statement-on-white-house-daca-healthcare-access-announcement/),
4/13/23\] 

**Sergio Gonzales, Executive Director of the Immigration Hub: **“Today
is a critical step forward for the over 600,000 young people who
currently work and live in our nation thanks to DACA. We applaud the
Biden-Harris Administration for taking action to improve the lives of
young people who are American in all but paperwork. With this change of
regulation by the administration, DACA recipients will be able to obtain
health insurance under Medicaid or CHIP in their state; purchase health
insurance in the ACA’s health insurance marketplace; and obtain federal
tax credits to make private health insurance affordable…”
\[[Statement](https://theimmigrationhub.org/hub-applauds-president-biden-daca-aca),
4/13/23\] 

**CHIRLA: **“Accessibility to affordable healthcare for hundreds of
thousands of DACA recipients is common sense and fixes an injustice. We
applaud this move by @POTUS and urge Congress to act now because DACA is
under attack and millions live in limbo without permanent protections.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/CHIRLA/status/1646534711114895362),
4/13/23\] 

**National Immigration Law Center: **“BREAKING: @POTUS is lifting
restrictions on health care access for DACA recipients, allowing them to
finally have access to the care they need. This is a critical,
long-overdue victory for immigrant youth whose \#HomeIsHere. And this
victory is years in the making. For over a decade, DACA recipients have
been unjustly excluded from \#ACA and Medicaid, and we’ve been fighting
alongside our partners to resolve this ever since. Today, we commend the
Biden admin for rectifying this years-long injustice.” \[[Tweet
Thread](https://twitter.com/NILC/status/1646552264385986560?s=20),
4/13/23\]

**Kica Matos, Executive Vice President of Programs and Strategy National
Immigration Law Center: **“As the pandemic made clear, the health of our
communities depends on all of us having access to quality care. The
Affordable Care Act and Medicaid are a lifeline to so many people, but
DACA recipients have been unjustly excluded for over a decade. We
commend the Biden administration for moving to rectify this years-long
injustice so that more DACA recipients can access the care they need…”
\[[Tweet,](https://www.nilc.org/2023/04/13/statement-health-care-access-expansion-for-daca-recipients/) 4/13/23\] 

**José Alonso Muñoz, Communications Director, United We Dream: **“A
major win for DACA recipients & health advocates, President Biden is
removing the bar to health care access for DACA recipients. This means
more care for more people under the ACA and Medicaid.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/munozjose/status/1646518258273759239?s=20),
4/13/23\]

**Juliana Macedo do Nascimento, Deputy Director of Federal Advocacy,
United We Dream:** “Today’s news is a major victory for DACA recipients
and their families that is the direct result of years of tenacious
organizing. Having good reliable health care is a human need, and this
rule change will mean that more people will have the life saving health
care coverage they need to take care of themselves and their families.
We all contribute to the health care programs so it was unconscionable
that DACA recipients were barred from eligibility for ACA, Medicaid and
other government subsidized health care. We celebrate President Biden
and the Department of Health and Human Services for heeding our demands
to remove this cruel and unnecessary bar on eligibility for hundreds of
thousands of young people…”
\[[Statement](https://unitedwedream.org/press/in-major-victory-for-daca-recipients-president-biden-announces-health-care-expansion-for-daca-recipients/),
4/13/23\]

**Justice Action Center:** “For too many DACA recipients, affordable
health care has been out of reach. Pres. Biden’s move will allow
hundreds of thousands to get cancer screenings, physicals + other
treatment needed to stay healthy.” —Adela de la Torre, JAC’s Deputy
Director. 📖”
\[[Tweet,](https://twitter.com/jactioncenter/status/1646556721039704065) 4/13/23\] 

**America’s Voice **“Today’s announcement by the Biden Administration is
exactly the kind of action that is needed and a sign of what’s possible
when there is the political will.” – @vcardenasDC on the announcement
that the Affordable Care Act will expand to DACA
recipients. https://bit.ly/3mwPODA” \[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/AmericasVoice/status/1646558994549415938),
4/13/23\]

**Cristina Tzintzún Ramirez, President, NextGen America:** “This is
great news! While we continue fighting for a pathway to citizenship for
DACA recipients, it’s important to ensure they have access to the
healthcare they deserve. This will improve the way of life of hundreds
of thousands of people. Thank you Mr. President.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/cristinanextgen/status/1646535515489857539?s=20),
4/13/23\] 

**Hispanic Federation: **“DACA recipients, have you h eard? @POTUS plans
to expand healthcare access for DACA recipients! This is a HUGE step
forward and HF applauds the administration’s progressive action towards
an equitable healthcare system for all.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/HispanicFed/status/1646612642247720960?s=20),
4/13/23\]

**National Partnership for New Americas: **“Great news for DACA
recipients! Biden admin’s proposal could grant healthcare access to
nearly 600k immigrants in the DACA program through Medicaid and ACA. A
significant step towards healthcare equity for all! \#DACA
\#HealthcareEquity \#ImmigrantRights”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/npnewamericans/status/1646535245754146816?s=20),
4/13/23\]

**Antonio Arellano, Vice President of Communications, NextGen
America: **“This news is a ray of hope for DACA recipients like me. It’s
reassuring to know that the Biden administration is taking steps to
prioritize our well-being. This announcement reassures me that we’re not
alone in this fight.”
\[[Tweet,](https://twitter.com/AntonioArellano/status/1646538287975129088) 4/13/23\] 

**American Business Immigration Coalition (ABIC): **“Today, ABIC
applauds @POTUS policy granting \#DACArecipients access to medicaid and
Affordable Care Act state exchanges.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/AmericanBIC/status/1646545976075714561?s=20),
4/13/23\]

**American Business Immigration Coalition (ABIC): **“ABIC applauds
President Biden’s decision to grant DACA recipients access to Medicaid
and to the state healthcare exchanges created under the Affordable Care
Act. Though DACA recipients like me currently lack a pathway to
citizenship, we work and serve our communities, paying state and federal
taxes like everyone else and we are no less vulnerable than anyone else
to health problems. Granting DACA recipients access to healthcare will
no doubt save lives as it will also help stabilize millions who can now
rest easy knowing that they can see a doctor when they need to. This
policy will also help American businesses and employers that are facing
labor shortages retain their DACA recipient employees.”
\[[Statement](https://abic.us/abic-applauds-biden-policy-granting-daca-recipients-access-to-medicaid-and-aca/),
4/13/23\]

**FIRM Action: **“A WIN! This is an important step towards ensuring
access to health care for hundreds of thousands of people! We all
deserve the freedom to live safe and healthy lives.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/FIRM_Action/status/1646543586643570689),
4/13/23\] 

**Cristina Jimenez, Former Executive Director, United We Dream: **“The
Biden Administration expands eligibility for Medicaid & the Affordable
Care Act to \#DACA recipients. This is a testament to the power of
community demanding for change. Every victory counts! Text DACAINFO to
787-57.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/CrisAlexJimenez/status/1646530595223384064),
4/13/23\] 

**Marielena Hincapié, Former Executive Director of National Immigration
Law Center: **“Breaking News: Welcome news from @POTUS finally
announcing that \#DACA recipients are covered by the \#ACA. \#HomeIsHere
\#HealthForAll \#ImmigrantsAreEssential”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/MarielenaNILC/status/1646530405124935682),
4/13/23\]

**Juan Escalante, Immigrant Advocate and Digital Strategist:** “Thanks
for your continued commitment on \#immigration and Dreamers, @POTUS!”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/JuanSaaa/status/1646521132483497985?s=20), 4/13/23\] 

**Families USA: **“Dreamers have faced uncertainty for too long. Thank
you, @POTUS, for providing them with the security and stability they
need by expanding access to healthcare and social services.
\#ProtectDreamers \#DACA”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/FamiliesUSA/status/1646531301829144576?s=20),
4/13/23\]

**Latino Victory: **“We applaud the Biden-Harris administration’s
decision to expand healthcare access to DACA recipients. This is a major
victory for DACA recipients and healthcare advocates. This decision will
save lives.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/latinovictoryus/status/1646538833964544000?s=20),
4/13/23\]

**Voto Latino**: “We applaud the Biden Administration on their plan to
expand healthcare for DACA recipients. Everyone deserves access to
affordable healthcare regardless of immigration
status[” ](https://t.co/CwKCUIK5ty)\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/votolatino/status/1646556671139774466),
4/13/23\]  

**@Foward Latino: **“Thank you @Potus for providing \#healthcare options
to some of our nation’s hardest working Americans, our \#DACA
recipients!”
\[[Tweet,](https://twitter.com/ForwardLatino/status/1646555828000792576) 4/13/23\]

**CASA**: “GREAT NEWS for DACA recipients! Thanks to the Biden
administration’s expansion
of [\#Medicaid](https://twitter.com/search?q=%23Medicaid) and [\#ACA](https://twitter.com/search?q=%23ACA) coverage,
hundreds of thousands of people will now have access to more healthcare
options. Today’s announcement is a major victory
for [\#DACA](https://twitter.com/search?q=%23DACA) holders and their
families.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/CASAforall/status/1646567608215302144),
4/13/23\]  

**Alianza Americas: **“GOOD NEWS! Today, @POTUS announced that \#DACA
beneficiaries will soon be eligible for Medicaid and health plans
through the Affordable Care Act. This is a step in the right direction
toward ensuring equal access to health for all people.”
\[[Tweet,](https://twitter.com/ALIANZAAMERICAS/status/1646535356458622977?s=20) 4/13/23\]

**Alianza For Progress **\[Translated from Spanish\]:“President Joe
Biden announced an expansion of public health insurance Medicaid and
Obamacare so that it can now include Dreamers. This is a victory for our
immigrants [@BuildingBack\_US ](https://twitter.com/BuildingBack_US)@POTUS.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/AlianzaProgress/status/1646604922064982028),
4/13/23\] 

**The Young Center**: “This is an important step towards building
healthier, safer nation and it’s the kind of policy immigrant
communities need. Now, congress needs to pass a pathway to citizenship
for DACA recipients and all 11 million undocumented people in the U.S.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/theYoungCenter/status/1646569727186161665?s=20),
4/13/23\]

**Erika Andiola, Activist & Comms Director, The Young Center**: “This is
HUGE! We, DACA recipients, are now eligible for the ACA, Medicaid, and
CHIP. This is long overdue, but progress nonetheless. And before anyone
comes to tell me that we “don’t deserve” this benefit, let me remind you
that we too pay taxes. A lot.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/ErikaAndiola/status/1646559493818564610?s=20),
4/13/23\] 

**National Partnership for New Americans (NPNA)**: “Great news for DACA
recipients! Biden admin’s proposal could grant healthcare access to
nearly 600K immigrants in the DACA program through Medicaid and ACA. A
significant step towards healthcare equity for all! \#DACA
\#HealthcareEquity \#ImmigrantRights <http://ow.ly/KR1o50NIhMS>.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/npnewamericans/status/1646535245754146816?s=20),
4/13/23\]  

**Center for Community Change: **“This is an important step towards
ensuring access to health care for hundreds of thousands of people, but
while DACA remains under attack, we need Congress to do its job and pass
a path to citizenship not just for DACA recipients, but all 11 million
undocumented people.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/communitychange/status/1646544618752753667?s=20),
4/13/23\]

**UnidosUS: **“For too long, \#DACA recipients have been blocked from
accessing \#Medicaid and Marketplace coverage when in need. We applaud
the Biden administration’s decision today to end this arbitrary
exclusion and reduce inequities in our health system.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/WeAreUnidosUS/status/1646522381299781637?s=20),
4/13/23\]

**Asylum Seeker Advocacy Project (ASAP)**: “ASAP applauds the Biden
administration [@POTUS](https://twitter.com/POTUS/) for
making [\#DACA](https://twitter.com/search?q=%23DACA) recipients
eligible to get health insurance on the ACA Marketplace. Everyone in the
U.S. should have access to healthcare coverage, regardless of their
immigration
status.” \[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/asylumadvocacy/status/1646566553188433945),
4/13/23\] 

**Andrea Rathbone Ramos, Digital Communications Specialist, American
Immigration Council:** “… As a DACA recipient, I often think back to
when I was in college and had to make the hard choice to skip out on
medical care to afford groceries. I, alongside the American Immigration
Council, would like to thank and applaud the Biden Administration today
for this expansion of the Affordable Care Act. Immigration status should
not be a barrier to healthcare access, and today’s announcement fills a
void for DACA beneficiaries like myself, who were previously excluded
from the ACA. This new expansion let’s immigrants who have contributed
to our healthcare system, from small business owners, to students, to
stay-at-home parents, obtain essential medical care. As I know
firsthand, the DACA community has often been left out in the past.
Thankfully, this new ACA expansion is a great step toward equitable
access to services for immigrants. It will now be easier for the DACA
community to receive medical care without having to worry about being
able to put food on the table. Dreamers are crucial members of our
workforce, and our communities and Congress should act and finally do
what is right and pass legislation to provide them with a path to
citizenship.

Today, the Biden Administration has unveiled a plan to expand access to
Affordable Care Act and Medicaid coverage for \#DACA recipients. The
American Immigration Council applauds these efforts and has issued the
following
response.”\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/immcouncil/status/1646597826489602075?s=20),
4/13/23\] 

**ACLU**: “We commend President Biden for this important step in
ensuring DACA recipients are treated with fairness and dignity. It’s
time for Congress to build on the president’s commitment and provide a
real path forward for immigrant youth and families.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/ACLU/status/1646610966669402113?s=20),
4/13/23\] 

**NumbersUSA**: “The action will allow participants in the Obama-era
Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, or DACA, to access
government-funded health insurance programs.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/NumbersUSA/status/1646502108995149824),
4/13/23\] 

**Héctor Sánchez Barba, Executive Director and CEO, Mi Familia
Vota: **“Healthcare should be a right for all, especially given
immigrants contribute to health care programs. We applaud the expansion
of critical healthcare care programs to DACA recipients. Now we must
work together to create structural changes to fully include immigrants
that contribute so much to our country’s being. Congress must act; we
need results as soon as possible, and our communities can not wait.
While this is a welcome step forward, we know that the key to unlocking
our country’s full potential, to keep the promise of its greatness, is
to provide a full pathway to citizenship to those who contribute so much
to the United States.”
\[[Statement](https://www.mfveducationfund.org/2023/04/13/mi-familia-vota-applauds-extending-health-care-benefits-to-daca-recipients-now-we-fight-for-structural-change-for-immigrant-inclusion-fbclidiwar14devsdgnj/?fbclid=IwAR14DEvsdGnJB2x6YRRfsISwN5Zm56yzSYXDyQM-wGa7YmYVe5VBiPDFznc),
4/13/23\] 

**Chuck Rocha **“BIG news today out of the @WhiteHouse Thank you
@POTUS”\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/ChuckRocha/status/1646519863731703810?s=20),
4/13/23\]

**Alida Garcia, former National Latino Vote Deputy Director, Obama For
America 2012: **“Really really great news from @POTUS!”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/leedsgarcia/status/1646524041430446081?s=20),
4/13/23\]

**Astrid Silva, Founder, DREAM Big NV: **“Small seeds planted for many
years, finally seeing them bloom. This is welcome news, thank you
@SecBecerra & @POTUS. While I know there is so much more to be done,
knowing that \#DACA recipients (while the program exists) will be able
to be a part of the \#ACA is joyful news.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/Astrid_NV/status/1646591687777718273?s=20),
4/13/23\]

**Maribel Hernández Rivera, Deputy National Political Director, ACLU**:
“We commend President Biden for this important step in ensuring DACA
recipients are treated with fairness and dignity. It’s time for Congress
to build on the president’s commitment and provide a real path forward
for immigrant youth and families.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/ACLU/status/1646610966669402113?s=20),
4/13/23\] 

**Center on Budget and Policy Priorities: **“The Department of Health
and Human Services (HHS) announced today its plans to make Medicaid and
Affordable Care Act marketplace coverage available to people with
Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA). This will be a welcome
end to the longtime bar on eligibility that has kept many people from
being able to access affordable health coverage…The Biden Administration
made the right call to end the ban on affordable health coverage for
people with DACA…”
\[[Statement](https://www.cbpp.org/press/statements/a-welcome-end-to-the-bar-on-affordable-health-coverage-for-people-with-daca),
4/13/23\]

**Lupe M. Rodríguez, Executive Director, National Latina Institute for
Reproductive Justice**: “We applaud the Biden Administration and
Secretary of Health and Human Services Xavier Becerra for taking steps
to ensure DACA recipients will finally be eligible for healthcare
coverage under the Affordable Care Act. This is great news for DREAMers
who have often delayed or avoided getting the health care they need.
Latinos/xs are uninsured at the highest rates in the U.S and we face
persistent barriers that deny us the tools to stay healthy. We are proud
to stand with NAPAWF, and many other advocates, to ensure that those of
us who come here for a better life can have access to our human right to
health care and are better able to take care of ourselves and our
families”
\[[Statement](https://www.latinainstitute.org/wp-content/uploads/2023/04/Latina-Institute-Celebrates-Victory-for-Expanded-Health-Care-Access-for-DACA-Recipients.pdf),
4/13/23\]

**Mayra Macías, Interim Executive Director, Building Back
Together: **“Everyone deserves access to quality, affordable health care
— and today’s announcement brings us another step closer to that
reality. DACA recipients will now have access to the lower costs and
more affordable health care coverage that President Biden has delivered
for hard-working families. This expanded eligibility for Medicaid and
Affordable Care Act programs is a significant victory that will improve
the lives of DACA recipients and their
families.”\[[Tweet](https://buildingbacktogether.org/news/statement-on-access-to-medicaid-and-aca-plans-for-daca-recipients-from-building-back-together/),
4/13/23\] 

**Mariana Alessandra, Director of Digital Strategy, Building Back
Together: **“Growing up undocumented I lived most of my life without
health insurance. Even with DACA, it was nearly impossible to find
affordable care – with a singular clinic in Central Florida taking
low-income immigrant families. This is a life-changing announcement for
DACA recipients.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/marianalesandra/status/1646534485100380160?s=20),
4/13/23\]

**NARAL: **“Today’s news that the Biden administration will expand
health care for DACA recipients is possible because of the tireless work
of immigration organizations and activists. Everybody deserves access to
health care—and we celebrate this victory alongside our partners.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/NARAL/status/1646558486170304529?s=20),
4/13/23\]

**National Health Law Program: **“The Biden administration is proposing
new rules that would allow immigrants covered by the Deferred Action for
Childhood Arrivals program to qualify for health insurance through
Medicaid and Affordable Care Act marketplaces! \#DACA \#Medicaid”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/NHeLP_org/status/1646524028470042626?s=20),
4/13/23\]

**League of Women Voters of the US: **“We are pleased to hear that DACA
recipients will now have health care protections under the law. Every US
resident should have access to affordable, quality health care.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/LWV/status/1646590246690213910?s=20),
4/13/23\]

**Community Change **“This is an important step towards ensuring access
to health care for hundreds of thousands of people, but while DACA
remains under attack, we need Congress to do its job and pass a path to
citizenship not just for DACA recipients, but all 11 million
undocumented people. 👏👏”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/communitychange/status/1646544618752753667),
4/13/23\] 

**CLASP**: “!!! The Biden Administration is taking action to remove some
barriers that prevent \#DACA recipients from accessing the \#ACA
marketplace. It’s time to ensure that everyone has access to affordable
health care. \#HealthCareForAll”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/CLASP_DC/status/1646522887040569344),
4/13/23\]

**American Friends Service Committees: **“The Biden admin. announced it
would restore \#ACA access to \#DACA recipients through a months-long
regulatory process beginning April 2023. AFSC and over 320 nat’l
partners worked on the \#ACA4DACA campaign calling for access to be
restored.”
\[[Tweet,](https://twitter.com/afsc_org/status/1646577682883248144?s=20) 4/13/23\] 

**The National Asian Pacific American Women’s Forum (NAPAWF):** “The
Biden Administration
is [announcing](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/04/13/fact-sheet-fact-sheet-president-biden-announces-plan-to-expand-health-coverage-to-daca-recipients/) that
it will expand eligibility to health care benefits under the Patient
Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA) and Medicaid to Deferred Action
for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) recipients…We applaud President Joe Biden
and Secretary of Health and Human Services Xavier Becerra for removing
unnecessary policy barriers that prevent those who were brought to this
country as children from accessing health care…”
\[[Statement](https://www.napawf.org/press-releases/230413), 4/13/23\] 

**Planned Parenthood: **“Great news! For the first time DACA recipients
will be able to receive access to critical federal health insurance
services through Medicaid and the Affordable Care Act. Everyone, no
matter their immigration status, deserves access to affordable health
coverage.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/PPFA/status/1646567069821829133?s=20),
4/13/23\]

**Andrea Mercado, Community Organizer & Executive Director, Florida
Rising:** “While DeSantis and Republicans in Florida propose to keep
immigrants out of hospitals and will charge churches with
felonies, [@POTUS ](https://twitter.com/POTUS)is including dreamers in
affordable
healthcare [\#aca](https://twitter.com/hashtag/aca?src=hashtag_click) Celebrate
every victory and keep
fighting [\#immigrantrights](https://twitter.com/hashtag/immigrantrights?src=hashtag_click) [\#justiciamigrante](https://twitter.com/hashtag/justiciamigrante?src=hashtag_click) [\#bridgesnotwalls](https://twitter.com/hashtag/bridgesnotwalls?src=hashtag_click)”
\[[Tweet,](https://twitter.com/DREAMERcado/status/1646608755293933602?s=20) 4/13/23\]

**National Health Law Program: **“🎉🎉📢The Biden administration is
proposing new rules that would allow immigrants covered by the Deferred
Action for Childhood Arrivals program to qualify for health insurance
through Medicaid and Affordable Care Act marketplaces! \#DACA
\#Medicaid”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/NHeLP_org/status/1646524028470042626),
4/13/23\] 

**Juan Escalante, Democratic Commentator: **“Thanks for your continued
commitment on \#immigration and Dreamers, @POTUS!”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/JuanSaaa/status/1646521132483497985?s=20),
4/13/23\]

**Madeline T. Morcelle, Lawyer, National Health Law Program: **“It’s
finally happening: the Biden Admin is announcing ACA coverage for \#DACA
recipients. Congratulations immigrant families and
advocates!”\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/madeline4health/status/1646475286991581185?s=20),
4/13/23\]

**Mari Urbina (Indivisible, Managing Director)**: “One of my areas of
focus when I worked for Leader Reid was the interaction of immigr & hc
policies. To see today’s news by Pres Biden to expand healthcare access
to DACA recipients brings into focus the critical inside/outside
organizing over the years by @NILC @UNITEDWEDREAM”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/TiaMari489/status/1646542005625929729?s=20),
4/13/23\]

**Felice Gorordo, Chief Executive Officer, eMerge Americas: **“Thank
you, @POTUS, for continuing to support our \#DREAMers!”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/fgorordo/status/1646528318093787137?s=20),
4/13/23\]

**Gabe Ortíz, Editor, America’s Voice: **“Some fantastic news: Biden
admin set to expand eligibility for Medicaid and the Affordable Care Act
to \#DACA recipients. One analysis found that DACA recipient households
pay $6.2B in federal taxes & $3.3b in state & local taxes each year.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/TUSK81/status/1646515811081916417?s=20),
4/13/23\]

**Texas Signal: **“Biden Expanding Health Coverage to DACA Recipients”
\[[Statement](https://texassignal.com/president-biden-expanding-health-coverage-to-daca-recipients/),
4/13/23\]

**North Carolina Democratic Party: ** “An estimated 24,000 DACA
recipients live in North Carolina. This plan is a big step forward in
ensuring they can access the affordable medical care they deserve.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/NCDemParty/status/1646606404046802948?s=20),
4/13/23\]

**Texas Democrats: **“Texas Democrats Celebrate Biden-Harris
Administration’s Efforts to Expand Healthcare Access to DACA Recipients”
\[[Statement](https://www.texasdemocrats.org/media/texas-democrats-celebrate-biden-harris-administrations-efforts-to-expand-healthcare-access-to-daca-recipients),
4/13/23\]
