---
date: '2023-04-22'
modified_time: 2023-04-22 16:50:36-04:00
published_time: 2023-04-22 17:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/04/22/icymi-unions-pour-on-support-for-acting-secretary-julie-su/
tags: statements-releases
title: "ICYMI: \u201CUnions Pour on Support\u201D for Acting Secretary Julie\_Su"
---
 
Today, Politico highlighted a broad range of voices coming out
forcefully in support of Acting Secretary Julie Su’s nomination to be
U.S Labor Secretary, including labor unions, business groups, former
Secretary of Labor Marty Walsh, and others.  
  
*“‘Julie Su has been a champion for labor, and labor is mobilizing in
the way only we can,’ AFL-CIO spokesperson Ray Zaccaro said.*  
  
\[…\]  
  
*\[T\]he administration has highlighted her support from groups like the
Los Angeles Chamber of Commerce, Small Business Majority and those
representing Asian American and Pacific Islanders. If confirmed, Su
would be Biden’s first APPI Cabinet secretary and his fourth AAPI
Cabinet member overall.”*  
  
\[…\]  
  
*Walsh has also been actively engaged in the process and advocating for
Su with labor and business leaders and senators, according to an
administration official.”*  
  
Read the full story below:  
  
**Politico: **[Unions pour on support for Biden’s Labor pick amid
confirmation
worries](https://www.politico.com/news/2023/04/22/julie-su-labor-secretary-confirmation-00093329)  
\[Nick Niedzwiadek and Jennifer Haberkorn, 4/22/23\]  
  
Unions are stepping in to boost President Joe Biden’s pick to lead the
Labor Department as Democrats seek to avert an embarrassing defeat that
would set back the administration’s agenda for workers.  
  
Unified Republican opposition to the nominee, Julie Su, has the unions
and the White House focused on a handful of moderate senators who have
yet to make their intentions known — Mark Kelly (D-Ariz.), Joe Manchin
(D-W.Va.), Jon Tester (D-Mont.), Angus King (I-Maine) and Kyrsten Sinema
(I-Ariz.).  
  
The AFL-CIO this week began rolling out a campaign to drum up support
for Su, with an emphasis on getting local affiliates to lean on
undecided senators and a six-figure ad buy running in Washington, D.C.
and Arizona.  
  
The “Stand with Su” effort is a direct counterweight to some of the
forces that have been lobbying against her — including the name choice,
as one of the main anti-confirmation groups is called “Stand Against
Su.”  
  
“Julie Su has been a champion for labor, and labor is mobilizing in the
way only we can,” AFL-CIO spokesperson Ray Zaccaro said.  
  
A key part of the pitch is that Su, who faces a committee vote
Wednesday, is in the same mold as former Labor Secretary Marty Walsh, a
seasoned politician who had fans on both sides of the aisle and who has
been directly involved in rounding up support for her, according to an
administration official. Su served as Walsh’s deputy secretary beginning
in July 2021 and has been acting head of the department for the past
month, after Walsh stepped down to run the NHL Players’ Association.  
  
“She has worked hand in hand with Marty Walsh,” American Federation of
Teachers President Randi Weingarten told POLITICO. “If you liked the way
Marty Walsh operated as the Secretary of Labor, then there’s no reason
not to embrace Julie Su.”  
  
But Republicans say Su, who was labor secretary California before coming
to Washington, would veer sharply left of Walsh and used a confirmation
hearing this week to portray her as anti-business and captive to labor’s
priorities. Although all five of the senators in question voted to
confirm Su as deputy secretary, Manchin, Tester and Sinema are likely to
face tough reelection fights next year.  
  
“The more that people learn about her track record and just how bad she
was in this role in California, we’re seeing that shifting the debate,”
Rep. Kevin Kiley (R-Calif.), a leading critic of Su, told POLITICO prior
to her confirmation hearing. “It’s very different when you’re going for
the top position than being under Marty Walsh.”  
  
The battle over Su is the Biden administration’s first attempt at
replacing a Cabinet secretary, and the latest test of Democratic
leadership’s ability to confirm nominees after multiple high-profile
misfires. Though Su is already steering the department, administrations
are typically wary of issuing major policy decisions without a permanent
leader, meaning that a protracted confirmation fight could bog down the
agency for months.  
  
Administration officials are holding nightly “war room” calls with Su’s
backers to discuss the game plan for the following day and to track
developments, according to a White House official. The administration
also holds 15 to 20 check-in calls per day across labor and business
groups.  
  
Walsh has also been actively engaged in the process and advocating for
Su with labor and business leaders and senators, according to an
administration official.  
  
Many Democrats on Capitol Hill are hopeful Kelly, Tester and King will
support Su. If that is the case, and Sen. Dianne Feinstein remains in
San Francisco recovering from shingles, Su and the White House would
still need to win over Manchin and Sinema, both of whom have bucked the
president in the past.  
  
Neither senator is on the committee that will vote Wednesday on whether
to advance Su’s nomination to the floor and attention will fully turn to
them immediately after the vote.  
  
Su has been ramping up her meetings with senators of both parties in
recent weeks, though she has yet to meet with several key holdouts. She
has spoken to Sinema, according to two sources familiar with the
situation, and the White House is in touch with Manchin, an
administration official said.  
  
Su doesn’t have a traditional “sherpa,” a veteran lawmaker or some other
plugged-in operative who typically leads Cabinet officials and other
important nominees through the confirmation process on Capitol Hill. The
lack of one has raised eyebrows among some of Su’s supporters about the
White House’s level of support for the nomination.  
  
The term “sherpa” is being phased out at the White House, however.
Instead, she has a “navigator” — the senior leader of the Labor
Department’s congressional affairs shop. The office has led Su through
the process and accompanied her at each of her Senate meetings,
according to that official.  
  
Su is only the second Cabinet official to go through the confirmation
process since the first months of the Biden administration — Office of
Science and Technology Policy Director Arati Prabhakar being the other —
and the agencies now lead the confirmation process, an administration
official said.  
  
With an obvious eye toward Manchin, the White House has heavily touted
Su’s support from labor unions, including the AFL-CIO, Teamsters and,
most significantly, United Mine Workers of America.  
  
While a recent letter of support from Mine Workers President Cecil E.
Roberts may pull weight with Manchin, Su supporters have been cautious
to not be too heavy-handed with either him or Sinema, knowing that an
overt lobbying effort may backfire.  
  
“The White House knows what they need to do for the best outcome to get
Julie Su confirmed,” said an organized labor official, who requested
anonymity to discuss political strategy. “They know the relationship
dynamics they have with the senators in question. And they know it’s a
complicated circumstance that requires deft and delicate management.”  
  
The White House’s light-touch strategy is not entirely reliant on unions
to shoulder the lobbying load and the administration has highlighted her
support from groups like the Los Angeles Chamber of Commerce, Small
Business Majority and those representing Asian American and Pacific
Islanders. If confirmed, Su would be Biden’s first APPI Cabinet
secretary and his fourth AAPI Cabinet member overall.  
  
But organized labor is at the center of the pro-Su push.  
  
“There’s a world of Julie Su supporters out there, and we’re trying to
show that,” the labor official said. “We saw these senators vote for her
\[to become deputy secretary\] and there’s no reason to vote against her
now. It remains to be seen just how uncertain they actually are.”  
  
*— Daniella Diaz contributed to this report.*

\###
