---
date: '2023-04-09'
modified_time: 2023-04-09 21:41:07-04:00
published_time: 2023-04-09 21:41:06-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/04/09/what-they-are-reading-in-the-states-new-major-manufacturing-and-infrastructure-announcements-power-week-two-of-president-bidens-investing-in-america-tour/
tags: statements-releases
title: "What They Are Reading in the States: New Major Manufacturing and Infrastructure\
  \ Announcements Power Week Two of President\_Biden\u2019s Investing in America\_\
  Tour"
---
 
From Portland Maine to Portland Oregon, Americans across the country are
reading about how investments driven by President Biden’s Investing in
America agenda are delivering economic opportunity and creating jobs in
their communities.  
  
Kicking off week two of his Administration’s Investing in America Tour,
President Biden spoke directly to Minnesotans on the clean manufacturing
boom his Investing in America agenda is unleashing. He visited and
toured a Cummins facility which will manufacture electrolyzers in the
U.S. for the first time – bringing critical clean energy supply chains
back home as a result of President Biden’s Inflation Reduction Act.
Cummins also announced an additional $1 billion investment to build low
to-zero-emission engines at its manufacturing facilities in Indiana, New
York and North Carolina.  
  
In Georgia, Vice President Harris announced a major expansion of Qcells’
manufacturing operations to assemble 2.5 million solar panels at their
Dalton facility for the largest US community solar order ever. The
announcement came at the same time as automaker Kia announced that it
would build its new electric SUV in the state.  
  
Alongside these major private sector investments driven by President
Biden’s Inflation Reduction Act, this week the Administration touted the
impact the CHIPS and Science Act is having on private sector investment
and workforce training, unveiled critical investments from President
Biden’s Infrastructure Law in drought resilience and water
infrastructure, and celebrated the *completion* of a $148 million bridge
project which received Bipartisan Infrastructure Law funding.  
  
*Read below for a sampling of what Americans are reading about President
Biden’s Investing in America agenda:*  
  
***Minnesota***  
**CBS Minnesota (WCCO):**[**President Biden brings “Investing in
America” tour to Twin Cities
business**](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=5c0f027b80&e=6636f28dae)  
President Joe Biden made a stop in the Twin Cities Monday, visiting a
business the White House says will be key in the future of green energy.
\[…\] It’s part of his “Investing in America” tour. During his remarks,
Biden spoke about how his Investing in America agenda has lead to an
innovation and clean energy boom.  
  
**Star Tribune:** [**President Joe Biden highlights economic agenda in
Minnesota
visit**](https://www.startribune.com/president-joe-biden-to-highlight-economic-agenda-in-minnesota-visit-clean-energy-jobs/600264116/)  
President Joe Biden visited a power generation facility in Minnesota on
Monday to make the case that federal spending has triggered new clean
energy jobs and economic growth \[…\] “I know many here in Minnesota who
are watching at home are like the folks that I grew up with in Scranton,
Pennsylvania, and Claymont, Delaware,” Biden said. “You feel left out.
Left behind in an economy that’s rapidly changing. I get it. I get it.
But hear me well. We’re going to leave no one behind.”  
  
**Spectrum:** [**In Minnesota, Biden to tout Cummins’ $1B investment in
engine manufacturing
network**](https://www.ny1.com/nyc/all-boroughs/news/2023/04/03/biden-minnesota-clean-energy-investing-in-america)  
The visit coincides with the company’s announcement of a more than $1
billion investment across their domestic engine manufacturing network in
New York, North Carolina and Indiana. \[…\] The president hailed the
announcement from Cummins, crediting his legislative agenda – namely the
CHIPS and Science Act, which aims to boost semiconductor manufacturing,
as well as the $1.2 trillion Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, the $1.9
trillion American Rescue Plan and the Inflation Reduction Act – for
boosting domestic investment nationwide.  
  
***Georgia***  
**Atlanta Journal Constitution: **[**VP Harris announces huge Qcells
solar panel deal during Georgia
visit**](https://www.ajc.com/news/atlanta-news/vice-president-harris-visits-georgia-today-to-laud-clean-energy-growth/5XTFH26WLVHFJJ5KQ5ULPASZVU/)  
Vice President Kamala Harris visited an expanding solar panel factory in
northwest Georgia on Thursday where she announced an order for millions
of Peach State-built panels as she touted how federal climate and
economic efforts are combining to create jobs in rural areas. \[…\] The
$2.5 billion expansion, which will result in 2,500 additional jobs, is
the type of investment Harris and the White House are highlighting in
its “Investing in America” tour to promote President Joe Biden’s
legislative agenda.  
  
**WSB (ABC Atlanta, GA):** [**In exclusive interview with Channel 2, VP
Kamala Harris says clean energy is the future of
economy**](https://www.wsbtv.com/news/local/exclusive-interview-with-channel-2-vp-kamala-harris-says-clean-energy-is-future-economy/ZXZKLJTFWFC5DG2GECPPY6JWLY/)  
Harris toured Dalton’s QCells plant Thursday to tout the Biden
administration’s multi-billion-dollar investment into Georgia’s clean
energy industry. She said it helped grow jobs like these. \[…\] “Because
of our work, we have spurred over $31 billion in private investment in
manufacturing right here in Georgia,” Harris said. \[…\] The QCell
expansion in Dalton and the new plant in Cartersville should mean about
2,500 new jobs in Georgia.  
  
**Atlanta Business Chronicle:** [**Kia to assemble new electric vehicle
at Georgia
plant**](https://www.bizjournals.com/atlanta/news/2023/04/05/kia-to-assemble-new-ev-at-georgia-plant.html)  
The EV9 is expected to be assembled at Kia’s existing plant in West
Point, Georgia, according to a press release. The vehicle could go on
sale later this year. President Joe Biden in a statement said Kia’s
decision to build the EV9 in Georgia is another sign the state is
“ground zero for building a clean energy economy and building industries
of the future. Our investments in America are creating good-paying jobs,
unleashing private sector investments, and producing products Made in
Georgia and Made in America.”  
  
**The Atlanta Voice:** [**Rep. McBath, Admin. Guzman speak small
business prosperity in
Norcross**](https://theatlantavoice.com/rep-mcbath-admin-guzman-speak-small-business-prosperity-in-norcross/)  
Guzman, who was appointed by President Biden to lead the SBA at the
beginning of his term, spoke with the leaders about the progress made
via the president’s “Investing in America” initiative, and toured
Norcross-based small businesses with Rep. McBath following the series of
events. \[… \]The federal government has also received more than 10
million new business applications from residents all over the country,
approximately 600,000 of which came from Georgia alone.  
  
**Atlanta Journal-Constitution:** [**HUD secretary talks tenant
protections in metro
Atlanta**](https://www.ajc.com/news/hud-secretary-talks-tenant-protections-in-metro-atlanta/MCLBW7FPSRGGXKIKUWTBCVPUJY/)  
Fudge visited Gwinnett County with U.S. Rep. Lucy McBath, D-Marietta, as
part of the “Investing in America” tour touting the Biden
administration’s economic agenda. The tour will bring U.S. Small
Business Administrator Isabella Guzman to Norcross on Tuesday and Vice
President Kamala Harris to northwest Georgia on Thursday.  
  
***Colorado***  
**Denver Gazette:** [**Jill Biden makes Denver first stop on
Biden-Harris administration’s Investing in America
Tour**](https://denvergazette.com/news/first-lady-makes-denver-first-stop-on-biden-harris-administration-s-investing-in-america-tour/article_0c991c14-d25e-11ed-8106-afa67c94bf37.html)  
“We need to work together to help our students get the education and the
training that they need for the careers that they want,” Biden said.
\[…\] Biden and other senior White House officials are touring the
country to trumpet legislation that includes manufacturing jobs,
high-speed internet, airport safety and clean water. \[…\] President Joe
Biden’s “Investing in America” agenda includes building a clean-energy
economy and rebuilding infrastructure to create good-paying jobs.  
  
**Denver Post: **[**First lady Jill Biden touts education initiatives in
Denver
stop**](https://www.denverpost.com/2023/04/03/first-lady-jill-biden-denver/)  
Biden is touring the country to tout the “historic” legislation that she
said hits needs that include manufacturing jobs, high-speed internet,
airport safety and clean water. “Joe’s administration has already
announced more than a billion dollars to improve the roads and bridges
and roadway safety and major projects right here in Colorado,” Jill
Biden said, referring to President Joe Biden. “And he’s investing
hundreds of millions of dollars in clean energy efforts here.”  
  
**States Newsroom:** [**Biden administration to fund $68.3 million in
Colorado water projects, including Leadville
tunnel**](https://www.realvail.com/biden-administration-to-fund-68-3-million-in-colorado-water-projects-including-leadville-tunnel/a15899/)  
The Biden administration will send $585 million to water projects in 11
Western states, Interior Department officials said Wednesday. \[…\]
Wednesday’s announcement coincided with a visit by administration
officials to the Imperial Dam that spans the Colorado River on the
Arizona-California border, and they gave particular attention to that
river system, which supplies water to 40 million people.  
  
***Maine***  
**Portland Press Herald:** [**First lady Jill Biden visits Southern
Maine Community
College**](https://www.pressherald.com/2023/04/05/first-lady-jill-biden-visits-southern-maine-community-college/)  
First lady Jill Biden visited Greater Portland on Wednesday, stopping at
Southern Maine Community College to highlight the college’s workforce
training programs and the state’s investment in free community college. 
The visit was part of the Biden-Harris administration’s “Investing in
America” tour to explain how President Biden’s economic policies are
benefiting Americans across the country.  
  
**Bangor Daily News:** [**Jill Biden tours SMCC to highlight workforce
training
successes**](https://www.bangordailynews.com/2023/04/05/news/jill-biden-southern-maine-community-college/)  
Biden’s first stop was to the school’s automotive technology department.
The garage was lined with cars on lifts adorned with license plates that
read “Investing in America, Investing in Maine.” As Biden entered, she
was accompanied by U.S. Education Secretary Miguel Cardona.  
  
***Vermont***  
**Burlington Free Press:** [**First Lady Biden says what Vermont is
doing is the future of American
workforce**](https://www.burlingtonfreepress.com/story/news/local/vermont/2023/04/05/first-lady-jill-biden-and-u-s-education-secretary-visit-vermont/70085809007/)  
Biden and U.S. Secretary of Education Miguel Cardona commended Vermont
for its investment in career and technical education, providing free
community college tuition through the Community College of Vermont,
investing in clean energy businesses and electric vehicles. \[…\] The
first lady and secretary of education were in Vermont for a couple hours
at the South Burlington airport promoting the president’s Investing in
America agenda, of which the Biden Education Pathway is a component.
\[…\]”Investing in education is about investing in America,” Cordona
said.  
  
**Brattleboro Reformer:** [**Gov. Phil Scott welcomes First Lady Jill
Biden’s Investing in America Tour to
Vermont**](https://www.reformer.com/business/gov-phil-scott-welcomes-first-lady-jill-bidens-investing-in-america-tour-to-vermont/article_49beef40-d3eb-11ed-a1f4-4fec0e2516c4.html)  
Gov. Phil Scott joined the First Lady and U.S. Secretary of Education
Miguel Cardona at BETA Technologies in South Burlington as part of the
Investing in America Tour. \[…\] The visit also highlighted the
importance of investing in Career and Technical Education. Students from
North Country Technical Center in Newport, Vermont, gave a tabletop
presentation to test the voltage and tension components of electric
vehicles.  
  
***New Mexico***  
**The Deming Headlight:** [**Buttigieg highlights infrastructure in
Deming
visit**](https://www.demingheadlight.com/2023/04/05/buttigieg-highlights-infrastructure-deming-visit/)  
Buttigieg underscored the federal Bipartisan Infrastructure Law’s
appropriation of $2.6 billion for 217 infrastructure projects in New
Mexico, including transportation, broadband internet and water projects.
\[…\] Buttigieg’s appearance was part of the Biden Administration’s
“Investing in America” tour.  
  
**Albuquerque Journal:** [**Buttigieg walks wildlife corridors,
dangerous roads in Albuquerque
visit**](https://www.abqjournal.com/2588115/buttigieg-walks-wildlife-corridors-dangerous-roads-in-albuquerque-visit.html)  
Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg was in Albuquerque on Tuesday,
the same day he announced a Department of Transportation wildlife
crossing pilot program that will make $350 million available over five
years to help pay for projects that make it safer for animals to travel
across roads. The funding was allocated in a 2021 infrastructure law.
\[…\] It was the second day in a row a Cabinet member visited New Mexico
to highlight projects funded through a Bipartisan Infrastructure Law,
which was one of the hallmarks for the Biden administration’s first two
years.  
  
**Los Alamos Daily Post:** [**Sen. Luján Joins Agriculture Secretary
Vilsack To Highlight $40 Million For New
Mexico**](https://gcc02.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fladailypost.com%2Fsen-lujan-joins-agriculture-secretary-vilsack-to-highlight-40-million-for-new-mexico%2F&data=05%7C01%7C%7Caab57cdf4fa441a6e10708db35192ec3%7Ced5b36e701ee4ebc867ee03cfa0d4697%7C0%7C0%7C638162154504648991%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C3000%7C%7C%7C&sdata=N81SPf6a0vr34TIObNrD76t89g4si5ReWMOCvmMMwbg%3D&reserved=0)  
U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) Secretary Tom Vilsack today
announced that the Department is investing $40 million to provide
high-speed internet access for people living and working in rural areas
in New Mexico. Today’s investments are made possible because of funding
from President Biden’s historic Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, which
provides $65 billion to expand reliable, affordable, high-speed internet
to all communities across the U.S.  
  
**NM Political Report:** [**New Mexico poised to receive more than $30
million for water infrastructure
projects**](https://nmpoliticalreport.com/2023/04/06/new-mexico-poised-to-receive-more-than-30-million-for-water-infrastructure-projects/)  
Federal officials toured the Imperial Dam in California and Arizona on
Wednesday, where they announced the new investments in infrastructure.
“The president knows that you can’t have a strong country without strong
infrastructure,” White House Infrastructure Implementation Coordinator
Mitch Landrieu said during a press conference this week.  
  
***Oklahoma***  
**The Oklahoman:** [**Feds pick OSU for expansion of energy efficiency
program**](https://www.oklahoman.com/story/news/politics/government/2023/04/07/feds-pick-osu-for-expansion-of-energy-efficiency-program/70088344007/)  
Once complete, the Great Plains Center of Excellence would help with the
mentoring of engineering students, train staff and help develop leaders
in energy efficiency, the Department of Energy said. \[…\] Granholm was
visiting Oklahoma with Second Gentleman Douglas Emhoff, the husband of
Vice President Kamala Harris, as part of the Biden administration’s
Investing in America tour. It’s the latest in a series of visits by
high-profile members of President Joe Biden’s Cabinet.  
  
**KOTV (CBS Tusla, OK):** [**Second Gentleman, Sec. Of Energy Visit
Oklahoma As Part Of ‘Investing In America’
Tour**](http://www.newson6.com/story/64302de79330fe153dc9e403/second-gentleman-secof-energy-visit-oklahoma-as-part-of-investing-in-america-tour)  
U.S. Secretary of Energy Jennifer Granholm and the husband of Vice
President Kamala Harris, Doug Emhoff, both visited Oklahoma State
University on Friday. Sec. Granholm and Emhoff visited as part of the
Biden Administration’s “Investing in America” tour, which aims to
highlight how President Biden is delivering major investments across the
country.  
  
***Nevada***  
**KSNV (NBC Las Vegas, NV):** [**President Biden’s ‘Invest in America’
tour stops in Las
Vegas**](https://news3lv.com/news/local/president-bidens-invest-in-america-tour-stops-in-las-vegas)  
\[Guzman\] joined Congressman Steven Horsford on Wednesday for President
Biden’s ‘Invest in America’ tour. The tour aims to highlight the
President’s actions in helping businesses grow and discuss recent
legislation. The White House says several companies have already
committed over $8 billion in investments across Nevada since 2021. \[…\]
Nevada business filings have hit new records, with 130,000 new business
applications filed over the last two years.  
  
**KOLO (ABC Reno, NV):** [**$2 million in funding for Marble Bluff Dam
announced**](https://www.kolotv.com/2023/04/06/2-million-funding-marble-bluff-dam-announced/)  
The funding aims to help communities and tribes improve their water
storage and build drought resilience. The money for this project was
allocated through the Department of Interior’s Bureau of Reclamation
from the Infrastructure Law passed in 2021.  
  
***Oregon***  
**Oregon Public Broadcasting:** [**State, national leaders convene in
Hillsboro to talk semiconductor
workforce**](https://www.opb.org/article/2023/04/05/oregon-semiconductor-politics-business-technology-federal-investment-chips/)  
U.S. Secretary of Commerce Gina Raimondo talked up Oregon’s strengths in
the semiconductor industry at a roundtable with lawmakers, higher
education leaders and industry professionals at Portland Community
College’s Willow Creek campus. Her visit was part of President Joe
Biden’s “Investing in America” tour. \[…\] The federal CHIPS and Science
Act, which Congress passed last year, contains more than $52 billion in
federal funding, meant to expand domestic manufacturing of
semiconductors — a material critical to the production of a variety of
electronics.  
  
**Herald and News:** [**Klamath Project receives $8.75M to study, repair
canals under federal infrastructure
law**](https://www.heraldandnews.com/news/klamath-project-receives-8-75m-to-study-repair-canals-under-federal-infrastructure-law/article_53597c1a-d3db-11ed-9d5d-a3355d7bc74a.html#:~:text=The%20Klamath%20Project%20will%20receive,and%20improve%20water%20delivery%20systems.)  
The project will receive $8.75 million to study and repair aging water
infrastructure as part of a $585 million federal outlay announced this
week by the Biden administration. \[..\] The Klamath Project will
receive $5 million from the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation to study using
alternative Cement-Bentonite Slurry Walls on the A Canal. The Klamath
Irrigation District would also look at piping the canal.  
  
***Connecticut***  
**Connecticut Public Radio:** [**At Yale, Treasury Secretary Janet
Yellen markets Biden’s economic
agenda**](https://www.ctpublic.org/news/2023-04-03/with-visit-to-yale-treasury-secretary-janet-yellen-markets-biden-economic-agenda)  
Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen visited Connecticut Monday to discuss
the economic agenda of President Joe Biden. During a fireside chat at
Yale University, Yellen said Biden’s “Investing in America” agenda is
expanding economic opportunity and boosting the nation’s productive
capacity without increasing inequality.  
  
***California***  
**Sacramento Bee:** [**Biden gives California more than $690 million to
improve water quality and
infrastructure**](https://www.sacbee.com/news/politics-government/capitol-alert/article273992480.html#storylink=cpy)  
On Tuesday, the United States Environmental Protection Agency said it
would send California more than $391 million to improve its drinking
water infrastructure this year. On Wednesday, the U.S. Bureau of
Reclamation said it would allocate $300 million to 24 projects for water
delivery, storage and electricity in California. The funding for each
comes from the 2021 Bipartisan Infrastructure Law. \[…\] The 2021
infrastructure law, backed by President Joe Biden, will invest over $50
billion in water and wastewater infrastructure over four years across
the country, according to the EPA.  
  
**San Diego Union-Tribune:** [**New $148M Mission Bay bridge in San
Diego fully opens to drivers, pedestrians and
bikers**](https://www.sandiegouniontribune.com/news/transportation/story/2023-04-04/new-mission-bay-bridge-san-diego-complete)  
The newly completed $148 million Mission Bay Drive Bridge near SeaWorld
was more than four years in the making and included $80 million from
President Joe Biden’s bipartisan infrastructure law. \[…\] “Because of
President Biden’s bipartisan infrastructure law, we now have two
parallel structures, one heading north and one heading south, relieving
traffic congestion and getting folks to their destinations safely,”
\[Mayor Todd Gloria\] added.  
  
**Calexico Chronicle:** [**Infrastructure Projects to Move County
Forward**](https://calexicochronicle.com/2023/04/06/infrastructure-projects-to-move-county-forward/)  
Near Yuma, Landrieu was joined by U.S. Bureau of Reclamation
Commissioner Camille Calimlim Touton at the Imperial Dam, which is
slated to receive $8.24 million as part of the infrastructure law’s
focus on addressing the nation’s aging water infrastructure. The federal
officials’ visit was part of the Biden-Harris Administration’s Investing
in America Tour. \[…\] Landrieu noted that in the last couple of years
Biden had built an economy from the bottom up, creating 12.5 million
jobs that have helped citizens and not just huge corporations.  
  
***Arizona***  
**Arizona Mirror:** [**Arizona gets $28 million for drought resilience
projects**](https://www.tucsonsentinel.com/local/report/040623_drought_projects/arizona-gets-28-million-drought-resilience-projects/)  
The funding is part of Biden’s Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, and the
projects are working to improve water conveyance and storage, increase
safety, improve hydropower generation, and provide water treatment.
\[…\] The funding announcement came on Wednesday after Beaudreau,
Touton, Senior Advisor to the President and White House Infrastructure
Implementation Coordinator Mitch Landrieu’s visit to the Colorado River
Basin’s Imperial Dam near Yuma.  
  
**Arizona Republic:** [**Gila River Indian Community to get $233 million
for water conservation,
infrastructure**](https://www.azcentral.com/story/news/local/arizona-environment/2023/04/06/gila-river-tribe-gets-233-million-water-conservation-infrastructure/70081319007/)  
The Gila River Indian Community will get up to $233 million in a
historic agreement to conserve water, one that is expected to help keep
water levels at Lake Mead from falling too low. \[…\] Mitch Landrieu, a
senior adviser to President Joe Biden, said one good year of snow and
rainfall won’t be enough to fix a 23-year-long drought and he held up
the Gila River agreement as a model for future partnerships to manage
water supplies in the Colorado River basin.  
  
***North Dakota***  
**Grand Forks Herald:** [**UND awarded $8 million Department of Energy
grant to study rare earth material
extraction**](https://www.grandforksherald.com/news/local/und-awarded-8-million-department-of-energy-grant-to-study-rare-earth-material-extraction)  
The U.S. Department of Energy on Tuesday announced that UND has been
awarded an $8 million grant to research the potential for extracting
rare earth materials from coal and its byproducts for domestic use in
industrial applications\[…\] The grant is part of the Biden
administration’s Investing in America initiative.  
  
***West Virginia***  
**The Register Herald:** [**WVU awarded $8 million to extract rare earth
elements from mine
waste**](https://www.register-herald.com/wvu-awarded-8-million-to-extract-rare-earth-elements-from-mine-waste/article_d9d2b534-d4a5-11ed-a167-8beb49a7f617.html)  
Rare earth elements and other critical minerals and materials are key to
manufacturing clean energy technologies in America that will help the
nation reach the Biden-Harris Administration’s goal of a net-zero
emissions economy by 2050. \[…\] “President Biden’s Investing in America
agenda is helping reduce our over-reliance on adversarial nations and
positioning the country as a global manufacturing leader, while
supporting communities that have helped power our nation for
generations” \[said U.S. Secretary of Energy Jennifer M. Granholm.\]  
  
***Washington***  
**Tri City Herald:** [**2 new Eastern WA factories aim to
‘revolutionize’ the electric vehicle
industry**](https://www.tri-cityherald.com/news/business/article273796010.html)  
Construction is starting in Moses Lake on what is expected to be the
world’s largest factory to produce advanced silicon battery materials
for electric vehicles as demand for the cars grows. Group14 Technologies
announced the start of construction of the plant on Tuesday. It is the
second plant planned to produce silicon battery materials in Moses Lake.
\[…\] Batteries that use silicon have the potential to hold more energy
and recharge more quickly. also should be less expensive, according to
Sen. Maria Cantwell, D-Wash., who championed a Department of Energy
program that resulted in grants of $100 million to both Group14 and
battery materials company Sila Nanotechnologies.  
  
***Illinois***  
**Northern Public Radio:** [**‘Historic’ $6.5 Billion funding for
Drinking Water Infrastructure Upgrades Across the
Country**](https://www.northernpublicradio.org/wnij-news/2023-04-05/historic-6-5-billion-funding-for-drinking-water-infrastructure-upgrades-across-the-country)  
“Getting the lead out of drinking water is a top priority for this
administration,” he said. “Because too many families have had to grapple
with the dangerous impacts of lead exposure.” \[…\] President Joe Biden
signed the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act, commonly referred to
as the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, into law in late 2021. \[…\] Of
the $6.5 billion funding available this year, the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law will invest $800 million to address PFAS and other
emerging contaminants.  
  
***Indiana***  
**Local News Digital (Southern Indiana):** [**President Biden visits
Cummins, company invests $1B in U.S.
manufacturing**](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=432362f085&e=6636f28dae)  
President Joe Biden visited Cummins in Fridley, Minnesota on Monday as
part of his administration’s Investing in America Tour. Coinciding with
the visit, Cummins announced that in addition to recent investments in
Fridley, the company is infusing more than $1 billion across its U.S.
engine manufacturing network in Indiana, North Carolina, and New York.

  
  \###
