---
date: '2023-04-05'
published_time: 2023-04-05 06:33:58-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/04/05/icymi-president-joe-biden-op-ed-to-fight-antisemitism-we-must-remember-speak-out-and-act/
tags: statements-releases
title: "ICYMI: President Joe\_Biden Op-Ed: \u201CTo fight antisemitism, we must remember,\
  \ speak out and\_act\u201D"
---
 
*Read full story below: *  
**CNN: [](https://www.cnn.com/2023/04/05/opinions/joe-biden-fighting-antisemitism-speaking-out-passover/index.html)[To
fight antisemitism, we must remember, speak out and
act](https://www.cnn.com/2023/04/05/opinions/joe-biden-fighting-antisemitism-speaking-out-passover/index.html)**  
\[President Joe Biden, 04/05/23\]

Tonight, Jews around the world will gather around the seder table to
celebrate Passover. They will recount the miraculous story of the Jewish
people’s exodus from slavery in Egypt to freedom. It is a timeless,
powerful story of faith, hope and redemption that has inspired oppressed
people everywhere for generations.

But Passover is more than just a recounting of the past. It is also a
cautionary tale of the present and our future as a democracy. As Jews
read from the Haggadah about how evil in every generation has tried to
destroy them, antisemitism is rising to record levels today.

According to the FBI, [more than
half ](https://www.justice.gov/crs/highlights/2021-hate-crime-statistics)of
religious hate crimes in America in 2021 targeted Jews and were
motivated by antisemitism. The Anti-Defamation League similarly found
that in 2022 antisemitic incidents in America reached [their highest
levels ](https://www.adl.org/audit-antisemitic-incidents)on record since
it started tracking incidents more than 40 years ago.  
We see this evil across society. Terrorist attacks on synagogues. Bricks
thrown through windows of Jewish businesses. Antisemitic flyers left on
the front lawns of Jewish homes. Swastikas on cars and cemeteries.

Antisemitic graffiti and acts in elementary, middle and high schools.
Jewish students harassed on college campuses.

Jews wearing religious attire beaten
and [shot ](https://www.justice.gov/usao-cdca/pr/man-who-allegedly-shot-two-jewish-victims-leaving-los-angeles-synagogues-indicted)on
streets.  
Antisemitic conspiracy theories rampant online. Antisemitic tropes
treated as honest public debate. Celebrities spouting antisemitic hate.
All of it – flagrant embraces of extremism in public life.

These acts are unconscionable and despicable. They carry in them
terrifying echoes of the worst chapters in human history. And they’re
not only a strike against Jews, they’re also a threat to other minority
communities and a stain on the soul of our nation.

To the Jewish community, I want you to know that I see your fear, your
hurt and your concern that this venom is being normalized. I decided to
run for President after I saw it in Charlottesville, when neo-Nazis
marched from the shadows spewing the same antisemitic bile that was
heard in Germany in the 1930s.  
Rest assured that I am committed to the safety of the Jewish people. I
stand with you. America stands with you. Under my presidency, we
continue to condemn antisemitism at every turn. Failure to call out hate
is complicity. Silence is complicity. And we will not be silent.

As the Passover holiday teaches, our work starts with the sacred duty to
remember. Last year, I visited Israel once again to reaffirm America’s
unshakeable commitment to its security. I returned to Yad Vashem to
honor the 6 million murdered Jews, to keep alive the truth and horror of
the Holocaust and to remind us all of our shared responsibility to make
real the promise of “Never Again.”

It was a promise my father first instilled in me at our family dinner
table, educating my siblings and me about the horrors of the Shoah.  
It’s a lesson I’ve passed on to my own children and grandchildren by
taking them to Dachau, a concentration camp in Nazi Germany, to
understand for themselves the depths of this evil and the culpability of
indifference.  
And it’s a message that Jill and I have continued, along with Vice
President Kamala Harris and Second Gentleman Douglas Emhoff, by bringing
Holocaust survivors to the White House and to the State of the Union –
so the entire nation bears witness.

But Passover teaches that remembering is not enough; we must also speak
out. The word “Haggadah” means “telling” – and it reminds us of our
moral obligation to state clearly and forcefully that this scourge of
antisemitism must stop.  
That’s why I appointed [Deborah
Lipstadt](https://www.state.gov/biographies/deborah-lipstadt/) – a
Holocaust expert – as our first Ambassador-level Special Envoy to
Monitor and Combat Anti-Semitism around the world. The Second Gentleman
– the first Jewish spouse of a vice president in our history – has also
been a leading voice against antisemitism and visited Poland and Germany
to promote Holocaust awareness. And I hosted the first United We Stand
Summit at the White House, convening governmental and non-governmental
leaders from across the country to declare that hate-fueled violence can
have no safe harbor in America.

But as we speak out, we must also act. Central to the seder are actions,
rituals and reenactments that help us feel the exodus experience and
collectively reinforce the truth that words alone are insufficient.

That’s why I signed a [bipartisan
law](https://www.cnn.com/2021/05/20/politics/biden-anti-asian-hate-crimes-covid-19-signing/index.html) to
help state and local law enforcement better identify and respond to hate
crimes. And the Justice Department has made combating hate crimes one of
its top priorities. My administration also secured the largest-ever
increase
in [funding](https://www.fema.gov/grants/preparedness/nonprofit-security) for
the physical security of nonprofits, including synagogues, Jewish
community centers and Jewish day schools. Because nobody should have to
fear walking down the street wearing symbols of their faith.

We’ll also be releasing the first-ever national strategy to counter
antisemitism, which will outline comprehensive actions the federal
government will undertake, and that reflects input from over a thousand
Jewish community stakeholders, faith and civil rights leaders, state and
local officials and more.  
Taking action also means reinforcing that Jewish culture and values are
essential to the fabric of America. That’s why we hosted the first High
Holiday [reception](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/09/30/remarks-by-president-biden-first-lady-jill-biden-and-second-gentleman-douglas-emhoff-at-a-reception-to-celebrate-the-jewish-new-year/) at
the White House and lit the first permanent White House
Hanukkah [menorah ](https://www.npr.org/2022/12/19/1144125582/as-the-bidens-mark-hanukkah-the-white-house-gets-its-own-menorah-for-the-first-t)in
our nation’s history.

But government alone cannot root out antisemitism and hate. All
Americans, including businesses and community leaders, educators,
students, athletes, entertainers and influencers must help confront
bigotry in all its forms. We must each do our part to create a culture
of respect in our workplaces, in our schools, on our social media and in
our homes.

Because hate never goes away, it only hides until it is given just a
little oxygen. And it is our obligation to ensure that hate doesn’t grow
or become normalized. It is our duty to preserve and protect the sacred
ideals enshrined in our Constitution: religious freedom, equality,
dignity and respect. That is the promise of America.

And that is the story of Passover – a story of redemption, resilience
and unity. A story of people coming together with a shared faith, a
shared hope for a better tomorrow and a shared resolve to reach the
Promised Land.

We were reminded of this enduring story in the aftermath of
the [hostage-taking ](https://www.cnn.com/2022/01/17/us/inside-texas-synagogue-hostage-standoff/index.html)at
a synagogue in Colleyville, Texas, last year. Hate did not pierce a
community’s goodness and grace. Heroic law enforcement officials [were
joined](https://www.baptiststandard.com/news/texas/interfaith-clergy-helped-during-synagogue-hostage-crisis/) by
local faith leaders, including an imam and Baptist minister who offered
their help. The nearby Catholic Church opened its doors to the hostages’
families. At sunset, a group of Muslim women, friends of the rabbi’s
wife, arrived with the rabbi’s favorite foods. They hugged and wept and
held strong together.

That’s the America that I know. From darkness, we find joy and hope and
light. Rather than driving us apart, faith can move us together. Not
just faith in a higher power, but faith to see each other as we should –
as fellow human beings.

As we celebrate Passover, let us reflect that like the four children in
the Haggadah, despite our differences we sit at the same table, as one
people, one nation, one America. Let us join hands across faiths, races,
and backgrounds to make clear that evil will not win; hate will not
prevail; and antisemitism will not be the story of our time.

Let us remember, speak out and act to restore the soul of America
together.

\###
