---
date: '2023-04-26'
published_time: 2023-04-26 15:16:41-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/04/26/washington-declaration-2/
tags: statements-releases
title: Washington Declaration
---
 
President Joseph R. Biden of the United States of America and President
Yoon Suk Yeol of the Republic of Korea (ROK) met on this 26<sup>th</sup>
day of April, 2023 to mark the 70th anniversary of the U.S.-ROK
Alliance. The Alliance between our two nations has been forged in shared
sacrifice, fortified by enduring security cooperation, and nourished by
our close kinship that has enabled both countries to leverage their
diplomatic resources to peaceably achieve crucial, strategic outcomes.
What began as a security partnership has grown and expanded into a truly
global Alliance that champions democratic principles, enriches economic
cooperation, and drives technological advancements. Our Alliance has
been tested many times, and in every instance we have risen to the
occasion and responded to the changing threats on the Korean Peninsula
and in the Indo-Pacific.  
  
To commemorate this historic year for our Alliance, President Biden and
President Yoon have committed to develop an ever-stronger mutual defense
relationship and affirm in the strongest words possible their commitment
to the combined defense posture under the U.S.-ROK Mutual Defense
Treaty. The United States and the ROK are committed to peace and
stability in the Indo-Pacific, and the measures we take together are in
furtherance of that fundamental goal.  
  
The ROK has full confidence in U.S. extended deterrence commitments and
recognizes the importance, necessity, and benefit of its enduring
reliance on the U.S. nuclear deterrent. The United States commits to
make every effort to consult with the ROK on any possible nuclear
weapons employment on the Korean Peninsula, consistent with the U.S.
Nuclear Posture Review’s declaratory policy, and the Alliance will
maintain robust communication infrastructure to facilitate these
consultations.  President Yoon reaffirmed the ROK’s longstanding
commitment to its obligations under the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty
as the cornerstone of the global nonproliferation regime as well as to
the U.S.-ROK Agreement for Cooperation Concerning Peaceful Uses of
Nuclear Energy.  
  
The Alliance commits to engage in deeper, cooperative decision-making on
nuclear deterrence, including through enhanced dialogue and information
sharing regarding growing nuclear threats to the ROK and the region. The
two Presidents announced the establishment of a new Nuclear Consultative
Group (NCG) to strengthen extended deterrence, discuss nuclear and
strategic planning, and manage the threat to the nonproliferation regime
posed by the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea (DPRK). In addition,
the Alliance will work to enable joint execution and planning for ROK
conventional support to U.S. nuclear operations in a contingency and
improve combined exercises and training activities on the application of
nuclear deterrence on the Korean Peninsula. In keeping with the
Presidents’ commitments, the Alliance has established a new bilateral,
interagency table-top simulation to strengthen our joint approach to
planning for nuclear contingencies.  
  
President Biden reaffirmed that the United States’ commitment to the ROK
and the Korean people is enduring and ironclad, and that any nuclear
attack by the DPRK against the ROK will be met with a swift,
overwhelming and decisive response.  President Biden highlighted the
U.S. commitment to extend deterrence to the ROK is backed by the full
range of U.S. capabilities, including nuclear. Going forward, the United
States will further enhance the regular visibility of strategic assets
to the Korean Peninsula, as evidenced by the upcoming visit of a U.S.
nuclear ballistic missile submarine to the ROK, and will expand and
deepen coordination between our militaries. Furthermore, the United
States and ROK will strengthen standing bodies for consultations on
extended deterrence, including the Extended Deterrence Strategy and
Consultation Group, to better prepare the Alliance to defend against
potential attacks and nuclear use and conduct simulations to inform
joint planning efforts.  
  
President Yoon affirmed that the ROK will apply the full range of its
capabilities to the Alliance’s combined defense posture. This includes
working in lockstep with the United States to closely connect the
capabilities and planning activities of the new ROK Strategic Command
and the U.S.-ROK Combined Forces Command. Such activities will include a
new table-top exercise conducted with U.S. Strategic Command.  
  
In view of these critical developments, President Biden and President
Yoon send a firm message to the international community that the United
States and the ROK will stand together in the face of any and all
threats to their shared security, and continue their close consultations
on further steps to strengthen extended deterrence. In parallel, both
Presidents remain steadfast in their pursuit of dialogue and diplomacy
with the DPRK, without preconditions, as a means to advance the shared
goal of achieving the complete denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula.

\###
