---
date: '2023-04-14'
published_time: 2023-04-14 15:54:31-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/04/14/joint-statement-from-canada-mexico-and-the-united-states-following-the-first-north-america-trilateral-fentanyl-committee-meeting/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Joint Statement from Canada, Mexico and the United\_States following the First\
  \ North America Trilateral Fentanyl Committee\_Meeting"
---
 
During the North American Leaders’ Summit (NALS) on January 9-10, 2023
President Joe Biden, President Andrés Manuel López Obrador, and Prime
Minister Justin Trudeau directed the formation of a senior-level
Trilateral Fentanyl Committee to guide priority actions to address the
illicit fentanyl threat facing North America.  On April 13, 2023, U.S.
Homeland Security Advisor Dr. Elizabeth Sherwood-Randall convened the
first meeting of this committee with Mexican Secretary of Security Rosa
Icela Rodríguez and Canadian National Security and Intelligence Advisor
Jody Thomas at the White House.  

The trilateral committee recognized synthetic opioids, particularly
fentanyl, as the foremost drug threat in North America.  Under the North
American Drug Dialogue, the United States, Mexico, and Canada will
prioritize four areas for enhanced coordination, focusing on current and
emerging synthetic drugs, drug demand and public health, drug
trafficking modes and methods, and illicit finance.  The three North
American governments will work together to disrupt the global transfer,
facilitation, and supply of illicit fentanyl, precursor chemicals, and
the equipment (such as pill presses) used in their illicit production
before they reach the Western Hemisphere.  The trilateral committee
pledged to coordinate international actions to mobilize other countries
impacted by synthetic drugs, including methamphetamine, captagon, and
tramadol. 

The three governments further committed to enhance drug surveillance
capabilities in our countries and share best practices in the upcoming
trilateral public health summit in June.  North American governments
will also develop shared recommendations on enhanced voluntary reporting
for suspected chemical diversion by private chemical, shipping, and
e-commerce industries.  As part of this process, the three governments
will develop a shared understanding of the North American market for
legitimate uses of synthetic precursors.  The three countries committed
to meeting again this summer and continuing to build on existing
frameworks of cooperation, including the North American Drug Dialogue,
the U.S.-Mexico Bicentennial Framework for Security, Public Health and
Safe Communities, and the U.S.-Canada Opioid Action Plan.   

The Canadian delegation included National Security and Intelligence
Advisor Jody Thomas,  Canadian Ambassador to the United States Kirsten
Hillman, and Chief of Staff to the National Security and Intelligence
Advisor Ramzi Nashef.

The Mexican high-level delegation included Foreign Secretary Marcelo
Ebrard, Secretary of Security Rosa Icela Rodríguez, and Mexican
Ambassador to the United States Esteban Moctezuma Barragán, and Chief
Officer for North America at the Foreign Ministry Roberto Velasco.

The U.S. delegation included Homeland Security Advisor Dr. Elizabeth
Sherwood-Randall, U.S. Ambassador to Mexico Ken Salazar, U.S. Ambassador
to Canada David Cohen, and Assistant Secretary of State for the Bureau
of International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs Todd Robinson.

\###
