---
date: '2023-04-03'
modified_time: 2023-04-03 11:37:05-04:00
published_time: 2023-04-03 11:35:29-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/04/03/what-they-are-reading-in-the-states-president-bidens-investing-in-america-agenda-is-delivering-for-americans/
tags: statements-releases
title: "What They Are Reading in the States: President\_Biden\u2019s Investing in\
  \ America Agenda is Delivering for\_Americans"
---
 
Across the country, national and local news outlets are spotlighting
President Biden’s Investing in America tour, which kicked off this week
with the President’s visit to a semiconductor manufacturing facility in
Durham, North Carolina. During the visit, President Biden announced that
private companies have made over $435 billion in major domestic
investments since the beginning of the Biden-Harris Administration,
creating jobs that Americans can raise a family on in every state across
the country.  
  
Over the course of the three week Investing in America tour, President
Biden, Vice President Harris, First Lady Jill Biden, Second Gentleman
Douglas Emhoff, members of the Cabinet, and senior White House officials
are fanning-out across the country, traveling to more than 20 states to
highlight the impact of the President’s economic agenda.  
  
President Biden’s Investing in America agenda – including historic
investments from the Inflation Reduction Act, the CHIPS and Science Act,
the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, and the American Rescue Plan – has
spurred a manufacturing and clean energy boom, strengthened supply
chains here at home, and has led to the strongest, fastest jobs recovery
in nearly 40 years.

*A sampling of the local coverage on President Biden’s investments
across the country:*

***National:***

**AP: **[**Biden: GOP policies would surrender tech economy to
China**](https://apnews.com/article/biden-north-carolina-investment-agenda-chips-wolfspeed-a0e6309d998e21eb85ff101972898531)  
President Joe Biden said Tuesday that Republicans’ ideas for cutting the
budget could undermine U.S. manufacturing and help China dominate the
world economy. Speaking at a semiconductor maker in North Carolina to
highlight his own policies, Biden is trying to shape public sentiment as
he faces off with House Speaker Kevin McCarthy, R-Calif., about whether
the federal government should raise its legal borrowing capacity.  
  
**UPI: **[**Biden touts ‘bringing supply chain home’ in first stop on
‘Investing in America’
tour**](https://www.upi.com/Top_News/US/2023/03/28/president-biden-kicks-off-Investing-in-America-tour/5541680005834/)  
“All these investments mean now you grow up in North Carolina, you go to
school in North Carolina, you can stay in North Carolina, and with a
good job you can raise a family,” Biden said. It’s not just happening in
North Carolina. It’s all about my agenda to invest in America.”  
  
**CNN: **[**Jill Biden making 4-state ‘Investing in America’ blitz in
preview of possible reelection
deployment**](https://www.cnn.com/2023/03/31/politics/jill-biden-visit-colorado-michigan-maine-vermont/index.html)  
During each of her stops, the first lady will tap into her own
experience as an educator as she promotes how introducing high school
and community college students to career-connected learning and
workforce training programs helps prepare them for future jobs.  
  
***Local:***

***North Carolina***  
**News & Observer: **[**Biden touts North Carolina’s role in US
manufacturing**](https://www.newsobserver.com/news/politics-government/article273661630.html#storylink=cpy)  
The president specifically gave a nod to two future Chatham County
facilities: Wolfspeed’s materials factory and VinFast’s car and battery
plant. “Right here in America, here in North Carolina, we’re making
chips that go into electric vehicles,” he said. “These vehicles are
powered by batteries and critical minerals that we’re making here in
North Carolina. We’re making electric vehicles here in North Carolina.
That’s what invest means.”  
  
**WNCN (CBS Durham, NC): **[**Biden visits Wolfspeed in Durham, making
first stop of 3-week
tour**](https://www.cbs17.com/news/local-news/durham-county-news/biden-travels-to-triangle-for-first-stop-of-investing-in-america-tour/)  
After landing at RDU, the President traveled alongside Governor Roy
Cooper to Wolfspeed, a manufacturer in Durham that produces 60 percent
of the world’s silicon carbide materials. Wolfspeed recently announced a
$5 billion investment to build its North Carolina facility and create
1,800 new jobs with it, according to the White House.  
  
**WUNC (NPR North Carolina): **[**Biden wants companies like NC-based
Wolfspeed to be a new wave of American
manufacturing**](https://www.wunc.org/politics/2023-03-29/biden-wants-companies-like-nc-based-wolfspeed-to-be-a-new-wave-of-american-manufacturing)  
President Joe Biden toured a North Carolina chip manufacturer Tuesday to
promote his economic agenda. The president said the Durham-based company
Wolfspeed could help revitalize American manufacturing \[…\]Durham
native and Duke business professor Ronnie Chatterji is helping the White
House implement the CHIPS Act, a new federal law that invests about $280
billion to research and manufacture semiconductors.  
  
**Hickory Daily Record: **[**N.C. governor, U.S. commerce secretary
praise fiber optic cable makers CommScope, Corning during Hickory
visit**](https://hickoryrecord.com/news/local/n-c-governor-u-s-commerce-secretary-praise-fiber-optic-cable-makers-commscope-corning-during/article_d741ec10-ce59-11ed-ac5d-ff6ddb6cad62.html)  
Raimondo said the U.S. Department of Commerce will be investing $50
billion to ensure Americans across the nation have access to a
high-speed internet connection. \[…\] She also spoke about the
importance of encouraging domestic manufacturing, at one point tapping a
spool of wire set next to the stage and pointing to the “Made in
America” label.  
  
**Spectrum: **[**Biden puts clean energy, manufacturing in the spotlight
in North
Carolina**](https://spectrumlocalnews.com/nc/charlotte/news/2023/03/28/biden-puts-new-clean-energy-manufacturing-in-the-spotlight-in-north-carolina)  
The president traveled to North Carolina Tuesday, touring a plant that
produces silicon carbide chips for semiconductors. The company,
Wolfspeed, just announced a new $5 billion facility about an hour west
of Durham. President Joe Biden made the stop in Durham to kick off his
“Investing in America tour.” The tour will highlight the
administration’s spending on infrastructure and building up new
manufacturing capacity for things like semiconductors and microchips.  
  
**WCNC (NBC Charlotte, NC):**[**Pete Buttigieg tours Charlotte Douglas
Wednesday**](https://www.wcnc.com/article/traffic/pete-buttigieg-charlotte-airport-faa-safety-summit/275-7efd1ed1-aace-4d8c-826f-162d006ccfa0)  
U.S. Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg was in Charlotte Wednesday
to tour the air traffic control tower and runway construction that is
enhancing safety at Charlotte-Douglas International Airport.  
  
***Minnesota***  
**Star Tribune: **[**Biden to speak Monday at Fridley
factory**](https://www.startribune.com/biden-to-speak-monday-at-fridley-factory/600263421/)  
President Joe Biden will speak Monday at the Cummins Power Generation
plant in Fridley, the White House has announced. The stop in Minnesota
is part of the president’s “Investing in America” tour, in which he is
promoting administration efforts to help build a clean energy economy,
rebuild the nation’s infrastructure and promote American
manufacturing.  
  
**Minnesota Public Radio:**[**Biden in Fridley Monday to Highlight
Business
Boom**](https://wjon.com/biden-in-fridley-monday-to-highlight-business-boom/)  
President Biden will be in Minnesota Monday as part of the ‘Investing in
America’ tour.  
President Biden will tour the Cummin’s hydrogen electrolyzer production
facility in Fridley Monday. \[…\] As part of the investments, Xcel
Energy plans to invest $575 million to build the largest solar farm in
Minnesota near Becker, and Bobcat plans a new construction plant in
Rogers and hire an additional 100 employees.  
  
***Colorado***  
**The Denver Post:**[**First Lady Jill Biden to visit
Denver**](https://www.denverpost.com/2023/03/31/first-lady-jill-biden-denver-colorado-investing-in-america/)  
First Lady Jill Biden will swing through Denver Monday as part of a
national tour to tout the president’s economic initiatives \[…\] A White
House handout highlights billions of dollars the acts direct toward
Colorado and private sector investments in the state that have followed
the passage of those bills. Colorado has also been campaigning to win a
“tech hub” designation under the CHIPS Act.

***Michigan***  
**WJBK (Fox Detroit, MI):**[** First Lady Jill Biden traveling to
Michigan next
week**](https://www.fox2detroit.com/news/first-lady-jill-biden-traveling-to-michigan-next-week)  
First Lady Jill Biden is coming to Michigan next week as part of the
president’s Investing in America Tour. Biden will be focusing on
programs that help ready high school and community college students for
jobs that will open up in the coming years. She’ll be joined by the
education secretary for part of the tour.  
  
***Maine***  
**WABI (CBS Bangor, ME):**[**First Lady Jill Biden to visit
Maine**](https://www.wabi.tv/2023/03/31/first-lady-jill-biden-visit-maine/)  
The White House announced Friday morning that Biden will be in Portland
on Wednesday, April 5, to talk about how career-connected learning and
workforce training programs are central to the Biden Education Pathway.
She will also talk about what the White House says is the importance of
investing in these programs that are preparing high school and community
college students for jobs created by the president’s Investing in
America agenda.  
  
***Vermont***  
**WVNY (ABC Burlington, VT): **[**Jill Biden to visit Vermont next week,
White House
says**](https://www.mychamplainvalley.com/news/local-news/jill-biden-to-visit-vermont-next-week-white-house-says/)  
Jill Biden is scheduled to be in Vermont on Wednesday as part of the
administration’s Investing in America Tour. Secretary of Education
Miguel Cardona will join the Biden for part of the tour, which includes
stops in Maine and Michigan. According to the White House, 21,000 jobs
have been created in Vermont since Biden took office in January 2020,
and the president’s pandemic-relief programs helped keep 369 restaurants
and bars and 965 child care programs open across Vermont.  
  
***Arizona***  
**Copper Courier: **[**Here’s a look at the work that’s being done in
the Grand Canyon State and how it helps
Arizonans.**](https://coppercourier.com/story/arizona-biden-infrastructure-law-projects/)  
In 2021, President Biden signed the historic $1 trillion infrastructure
bill into law, delivering on a key piece of his economic agenda. Since
then, billions of dollars have been funneled into all 50 states in order
to upgrade highways, transit systems, water systems, and more. According
to the White House, $2.2 billion in funding from the law has been
allocated to Arizona roads, bridges, roadway safety, and other major
projects as of February.

***New York***  
**WKTV (NBC Utica, NY): **[**New York to expand access to high-speed
internet using $100M in American Rescue Plan
funding**](https://www.wktv.com/news/state/new-york-to-expand-access-to-high-speed-internet-using-100m-in-american-rescue-plan/article_7ad15a6a-ce72-11ed-92f9-a3a544ecebc4.html)  
New York State is getting $100 million in federal funding to expand
access to high-speed internet. The money comes from the $10 billion
Capital Projects Fund, which is meant to address challenges made worse
by the COVID-19 pandemic, especially problems with infrastructure,
including internet access.   
  
***Arkansas***  
**KNWA (NBC Rogers, AR): **[**Transportation Secy. Pete Buttigieg talks
safety, infrastructure at Little Rock
airport**](https://www.nwahomepage.com/around-arkansas/u-s-transportation-secretary-pete-buttigieg-to-discuss-airport-safety-at-clinton-national-airport/)  
These changes are being funded by a $41 million grant from the federal
government. The secretary said the funding was provided as part of the
Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act passed by Congress in 2021.  
  
***Texas***  
**KERA (NPR North Texas):**[**Buttigieg makes Dallas visit to unveil $29
million airfield safety
project**](https://www.keranews.org/news/2023-03-30/buttigieg-makes-dallas-visit-to-unveil-29-million-airfield-safety-project)  
United States Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg made a stop in
Dallas Thursday to break ground on a $28.8 million airfield project he
says will cut down on near-accidents between aircraft. \[..\]”DFW, I
think, will continue to be an economic engine, not just for this region,
but really for the entire country,” he said.  
  
***Oklahoma***  
**The Oklahoman: **[**Buttigieg visits OKC to highlight focus on
airspace safety,
reliability**](https://www.oklahoman.com/story/news/politics/government/2023/03/31/buttigieg-visits-okc-to-highlight-airspace-safety-reliability/70065811007/)  
Buttigieg toured the Federal Aviation Administration’s Mike Monroney
Aeronautical Center, where air traffic controllers are trained. He said
their work was critical in view of rapid changes in the industry. He
cited drones occupying the national airspace, artificial intelligence
coming online, and the development of electric-powered vertical landing
and takeoff craft, along with a robust commercial spaceflight economy.

  
  \###
