---
date: '2023-04-14'
modified_time: 2023-04-14 11:39:22-04:00
published_time: 2023-04-14 15:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/04/14/president-biden-announces-key-appointments-to-boards-and-commissions-24/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key Appointments to Boards and\_Commissions"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Biden announced the appointment of members
to the Committee for the Preservation of the White House. The Committee
for the Preservation of the White House is an advisory committee charged
with the preservation of the White House, the official home and
principal workplace of the President of the United States. The Committee
is largely made up of citizens appointed by the President for their
experience with historic preservation, architecture, decorative arts,
and for their scholarship in these areas.

The Committee is charged with establishing policies relating to the
museum function of the White House, its state rooms, and collections. It
also works to make recommendations on acquisitions for the permanent
collection of the White House and provides advice on changes to
principal rooms on the ground floor, state floor, and the historic guest
suites on the residence floor of the White House Executive Residence.

The First Lady serves as Honorary Chair of the Committee, and the
Director of the National Park Service serves as its Chair. Additionally,
the Curator of the White House, Chief Usher of the White House,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, Chair of the United States
Commission of Fine Arts, and Director of the National Gallery of Art
serve as Members of the Committee.

President Biden announced the appointment of the following individuals
to serve as members of the Committee:

-   Penny Ashford
-   Leslie Greene Bowman
-   Mel Buchanan
-   Wendy A. Cooper
-   John E. Frank
-   Lauren Haynes
-   Ethan W. Lasser
-   Janni Lehrer-Stein
-   J. Dean Norton
-   Richard C. Nylander
-   MK Pritzker
-   Ellen Susman
-   John Wilmerding

**Penny Ashford**

Penny Ashford is a photographer dedicated to capturing the effects of
climate change across the globe. For her work, she has traveled to
Antarctica, the North Pole, the Great Barrier Reef, Svalbard, Norway,
and, most recently, Greenland to focus on water. Her photography has
promoted awareness to Save the Children in Ethiopia, Grassroots Soccer
in Zimbabwe, and Coaches Across the Continent in India. Her photographs
have been exhibited in throughout the United States.

Ashford is the founder of Ashford Interiors, started in 1995 after
working for six years with Cullman and Kravis, Inc. in New York City.
She served on the board of Winterthur Museum, the Delaware Art Museum,
The Pennsylvania Ballet, and St. Michaels School and Nursery in
Wilmington, Delaware.

She is the mother of two daughters and lives with her husband in
Wilmington.

**Leslie Greene Bowman**

Leslie Greene Bowman is President Emerita of the Thomas Jefferson
Foundation, which owns and operates Monticello – the home of Thomas
Jefferson – the only presidential home or slave plantation in America
included on UNESCO’s list of World Heritage Sites. Monticello is also a
member of the International Coalition of Sites of Conscience. She has
spearheaded the Foundation’s vision to bring history forward into
national and global dialogue, propelling restoration, dialogue, and
programs that offer a full and comprehensive view of our aspirational
and complicated past – common ground for all Americans. She earned her
Bachelor of Philosophy at Miami University of Ohio, and her Master of
Arts in Early American Culture as a Winterthur Fellow at the University
of Delaware. She has spent her entire career in museums, authored two
books on American decorative arts history, and enjoyed academic
appointments with both USC and UCLA, where she taught American
decorative arts history. She is a trustee emerita of the National Trust
for Historic Preservation, a member of the Virginia Bar Association’s
Committee of Special Issues of National and State Importance, a member
of the Order of St. John, and a fellow of the Royal Society for the Arts
in London. She has served by Presidential appointment on the Committee
for the Preservation of the White House under Presidents Trump, Obama,
Bush, and Clinton.

**Mel Buchanan**

Melissa “Mel” Buchanan is the RosaMary Curator of Decorative Arts &
Design at the New Orleans Museum of Art (NOMA), where for nearly ten
years she has overseen exhibitions, interpretation, and collection
growth for the museum’s wide-ranging craft and design collection. In
2018 she completed a reinstallation of NOMA’s decorative arts galleries,
including the launch of a series of commissioned artworks where
contemporary designers respond to the museum’s traditional collection.
Her exhibitions for NOMA include *Katherine Choy: Radical Potter in
1950s New Orleans* (2022), *Atomic \#13: Aluminum in
20<sup>th</sup>-Century Design* (2021), *Bror Anders Wikstrom: Bringing
Fantasy to Carnival* (2017), and *Personalities in Clay: American Studio
Ceramics from the E. John Bullard Collection* (2017). She is currently
working on a major 2024 exhibition and catalogue drawing from the
museum’s renowned collection of historic glass through themes like
craft, exchange, technology, and foodways.

Buchanan serves on the national board of The Decorative Arts Trust and
of the American Ceramic Circle, for which she chairs the annual
symposium. Before moving to Louisiana, Buchanan worked at The RISD
Museum in Providence, Rhode Island, and served as Assistant Curator of
20th-Century Design at the Milwaukee Art Museum, where she curated the
exhibition *Grete Marks: When Modern was Degenerate* (2012). Buchanan
holds a BA from Yale University and an MA from the Winterthur Program in
American Material Culture at the University of Delaware. She lives in
New Orleans with her husband, Lance Dickman, and two children, Axel and
Leila.

**Wendy A. Cooper**

Wendy A. Cooper is Curator Emerita of furniture at Winterthur Museum
following two decades as senior curator of furniture. She is a *cum
laude* graduate of Brown University, and holds an M.A. from the
Winterthur Program in American Material Culture from the University of
Delaware. Cooper has worked at The Brooklyn Museum, the Museum of Fine
Arts, Boston, The Colonial Williamsburg Foundation, the Baltimore Museum
of Art, and has guest curated four exhibitions at the National Gallery
of Art: *The Kaufman Collection of American Furniture* (1986-87); *In
Praise of America: American Decorative Arts, 1640-1840* (1980); *An
American Vision: Henry Francis du Pont’s Winterthur Museum* (2002); and
*Masterpieces of Furniture from the Kaufman Collection*, *1700-1830*
(2012 – the present). Before coming to Winterthur in 1995, she was
Curator of Decorative Arts at the Baltimore Museum of Art where she
organized the traveling exhibition *Classical Taste in America,
1800-1840,* with the accompanying book. In 2011 she organized the
groundbreaking exhibition *Paint, Pattern, and People: Furniture of
Southeastern Pennsylvania, 1725-1850* at Winterthur, with a publication
of the same name. She is now a consultant, researcher, writer, and
lecturer, and serves on museum committees and boards.

**John E. Frank**

John Frank is Senior Vice President, Chief Public Affairs Officer of
Illumina, Inc. Prior to joining Illumina, he spent more than 25 years at
Microsoft in numerous leadership positions in Paris, Redmond, Brussels,
and New York City. Before Microsoft, Frank practiced law with Skadden
Arps and Orrick.

Frank previously served on the Committee for the Preservation of the
White House from 2016 to 2019. He is an avid collector of French
decorative arts and an art history hobbyist, with special interests in
French furniture maker Pierre-Antoine Bellange and French painter Martin
Drölling. Frank is a Life Member of the Council on Foreign Relations and
sits on numerous boards including the U.S. Council on International
Business and the Seattle Art Museum, which he previously chaired. Frank
received his B.A. in Public and International Affairs from Princeton
University and his J.D. from Columbia University School of Law. He is
married to Delia Jampel and they have three children, Carla, married to
Rob Flaherty, Elliot, and Mariel.

**Lauren Haynes**

Lauren Haynes is the Director of Curatorial Affairs and Programs at the
Queens Museum in Queens, New York. Prior to joining the Queens Museum,
Haynes was the Patsy R. and Raymond D. Nasher Senior Curator of
Contemporary Art at the Nasher Museum of Art at Duke University. Before
joining the Nasher, Haynes was Director of Artist Initiatives and
Curator, Contemporary Art at Crystal Bridges Museum of American Art and
the Momentary in Bentonville, Arkansas. Haynes led the inaugural visual
arts programming for the Momentary when it opened to the public in
February 2020. Haynes’s recent curatorial projects include *Lyle Ashton
Harris: Our first and last love* (co-curator, 2023); *The Power of
Portraiture: Recent Acquisitions* (2022); *Beyond the Surface: Mixed
Media and Textile Works from the Collection* (2022); *Reckoning and
Resilience: North Carolina Art* Now (co-curator, 2022); *Kenny Rivero:
The Floor is Crooked* (2021); *Crystal Bridges at 10* (2021); *Sarah
Cain: In Nature* (2021); *State of the Art 2020* (co-curator, 2020); and
*The Beyond: Georgia O’Keeffe and Contemporary Art* (co-curator, 2018).
Prior to joining Crystal Bridges, Haynes spent nearly a decade at The
Studio Museum in Harlem. As a specialist in African-American
contemporary art, Haynes curated dozens of exhibitions at the Studio
Museum and contemporary art institutions in New York. Haynes serves on
the board of the Association of Art Museum Curators and on the visiting
committee for the Allen Memorial Art Museum at Oberlin College. Haynes
was a 2018 Center for Curatorial Leadership fellow and a recipient of a
2020 ArtTable New Leadership Award.

**Ethan W. Lasser**

Ethan W. Lasser is the John Moors Cabot Chair of the Art of the Americas
Department at the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston. He leads the curatorial
team responsible for the Museum’s renowned collection of paintings,
sculpture, and decorative arts from across North, Central, and South
America, ancient to modern. A curator, scholar, and convenor, Lasser has
contributed to exhibitions and publications on a range of American art
topics. His most recent show, *Hear Me Now: The Black Potters of Old
Edgefield, South Carolina* considers the enslaved artists who led the
ceramics industry across the 19th-century South. Lasser has also curated
exhibitions of Philip Guston, Winslow Homer, and 19th century African
American art (with artist Theaster Gates, Jr.). Prior to the MFA, he
held curatorial positions at the Chipstone Foundation in Milwaukee and
the Harvard Art Museums. He received his PhD from Yale University and
graduated from Williams College. Lasser lives in West Newton,
Massachusetts with his wife and three children.

**Janni Lehrer-Stein**

Janni Lehrer-Stein is a disability rights advocate and retired attorney
who is dedicated to achieving access, equity, and justice for disabled
persons globally. Nominated by President Obama, Lehrer-Stein served two
terms on the National Council on Disability, a federal agency that
advises the President, Congress, and agencies. She has been a senior
policy advisor to Presidential and other campaigns. Lehrer-Stein is a
member of the NIH National Advisory Eye Council and the National
Academies of Science, Engineering and Medicine Forum on Aging,
Disability and Independence. Lehrer-Stein presently is a board director
for the Foundation Fighting Blindness and the American Foundation for
the Blind. She is a lifelong student of history, languages, and culture.
She received her B.A. from Yale and her law degree from the University
of Toronto, with a year of study at Harvard Law School. Lehrer-Stein
lives in San Francisco with her husband and loyal guide dog, Shiloh.

**J. Dean Norton**

Dean Norton began employment at Mount Vernon Estate on June 23, 1969 and
never left. After receiving a degree in horticulture from Clemson
University he began his horticultural career as the estate’s boxwood
gardener. He was promoted to horticulturist in 1980 and is to this day
responsible for applying the latest plant science and management
techniques of horticulture in a historic setting. For the past 53 years,
Norton has devoted considerable time to researching 18th century gardens
and gardening practices and has led the restoration effort of the
principle historic gardens and overall landscape at Mount Vernon Estate.
He has received awards for conservation from the DAR, the Garden Club of
America, and the American Horticulture Society, as well as the Garden
Club of America’s prestigious Elizabeth Craig Weaver Proctor National
Medal. He is an honorary member of the Garden Club of Virginia and the
Garden Club of Providence. Awarded an honorary doctorate from Washington
College, Norton serves on several historic property boards and lectures
nationally and internationally.

**Richard C. Nylander**

Richard C. Nylander is Curator Emeritus of Historic New England. He
received his BA from the College of William and Mary in Virginia and an
MA from the Cooperstown Graduate Program in New York. During his 41-year
career at Historic New England, Nylander was responsible for the
ground-breaking restorations of the Federal-period Harrison Gray Otis
House in Boston and the Colonial Revival Hamilton House in South
Berwick, Maine. Nylander is an internationally-recognized authority on
historic wallpaper and is the author of *Wallpaper in New England* and
*Wallpaper for Historic Buildings*. He has lectured widely on historic
wallpaper and period interiors and has contributed numerous articles to
both popular and scholarly journals. His recent publications include a
chapter on looking glass maker and art dealer John Doggett in *Boston
Furniture* (2016) and two essays in *Everything for the Garden* (2019).

Nylander is a fellow of the Massachusetts Historical Society and a
member of the American Antiquarian Society and the Colonial Society of
Massachusetts. He and his wife Jane have received awards from the New
England Chapter of the Victorian Society of America, Historic
Massachusetts, and the 2010 Award of Merit from the Antique Dealers’
Association of America. In 2022, Nylander was the recipient of the Old
Sturbridge Village President’s Award. He was first appointed a member of
the Committee for the Preservation of the White House in 1989.

**MK Pritzker**

Mary Kathryn (MK) Pritzker has served as Illinois’s first lady since
January 2019. In her work as first lady, Pritzker builds on her lifelong
commitment to advancing outcomes for women and girls in Illinois and
beyond, with a focus on expanding access to reproductive health care and
developing restorative criminal justice responsive to women’s needs. The
first lady also contributes her time to supporting LGBTQ+ initiatives
and promoting the arts.

Having been educated in historic decorative arts and architecture,
Pritzker has used those skills to restore the Illinois Governor’s
Mansion to a welcoming home and public space that preserves the rich
history and culture of the people of Illinois. Her work has brought to
the mansion a carefully curated collection of fine art, crafts, and
furniture. In addition, the first lady has meticulously researched and
documented the mansion’s cultural history and changing architecture over
its almost 170-year life. Pritzker turned her work on the mansion into a
book, *A House that Made History*, which chronicles the life of the
mansion and its most interesting inhabitants, to be published by Rizzoli
in the fall of 2023.

Born in Lincoln, Nebraska, and raised in South Dakota, Pritzker worked
on the staffs of former U.S. Senate Majority Leader Tom Daschle (D-SD)
and former Governor and U.S. Senator Bob Kerrey (D-NE). She graduated
with a B.A. from the University of Nebraska at Lincoln and attended
graduate school in the Master of Science in Historic Preservation
program at the School of the Art Institute of Chicago. She resides in
Chicago, Illinois, with her husband, JB, their daughter Teddi, and son
Donny.

**Ellen Susman**

Ellen Susman is a cultural ambassador and former journalist. She served
as director of Art in Embassies, an office of the U.S. Department of
State, from 2013 to 2016, with a focus on partnerships and outreach.
Previous to this position, she served as a member of President Obama’s
Advisory Committee on the Arts for the John F. Kennedy Center for the
Performing Arts. Her longstanding relationship with the Aspen Institute
resulted in an opportunity to present a multi-session program titled
*Cultural Diplomacy: Why Art Matters*. Susman spent 25 years in the
broadcast industry, and from 2004 to 2008, she was the producer and host
of “Balancing Your Life,” an award-winning, national PBS program that
celebrates the strength of women as they work to balance career and
family. The show was a first for PBS and won two Accolade Awards and was
nominated for a Lone Star Emmy. She also edited a memoir by her late
sister, Carol Spencer Mitchell, who worked for *Newsweek*. The
University of Texas Press published *Danger Pay: Memoir of a
Photojournalist in the Middle East, 1984 – 1994* in November 2008.

Susman is President of the Susman Foundation and currently serves on the
boards of the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, NxtHvn, and the
Yale University Art Gallery. Previously, she served on the boards of
*The Texas Tribune*, the Democracy Alliance, and the Women’s Leadership
Board at Harvard Kennedy School.

**John Wilmerding**

John Wilmerding is Sarofim Professor of American Art, emeritus, at
Princeton University. He is an emeritus trustee of the Shelburne and
Guggenheim museums, and a founding trustee of Crystal Bridges Museum of
American Art and the Wyeth Foundation for American Art. He is the
longest-serving member of the Committee for the Preservation of the
White House, a presidential appointment, from the first Bush
administration to the present. He was previously senior curator and
deputy director of the National Gallery of Art in Washington, DC, where
he later served as a trustee, retiring in 2013 as chairman of its board.
He has an honorary Doctor of Letters from the University of Vermont, and
is a member of the American Philosophical Society. He is the author of
over two dozen books, including volumes on the work of Fitz Henry Lane,
John F. Peto, Winslow Homer, and Thomas Eakins. More recently, he has
written books on Richard Estes, Robert Indiana, Tom Wesselmann, and
Fairfield Porter. His most recent publications are *American
Masterpieces*, an anthology of his essays published in the *Wall Street
Journal* between 2006 and 2018; and *Lens on American Art: The Role and
Depiction of Eyeglasses* (Rizzoli, 2020).

\###
