---
date: '2023-04-13'
published_time: 2023-04-13 22:11:58-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/04/13/joint-statement-from-mexico-and-the-united-states-on-the-implementation-of-the-u-s-mexico-bicentennial-framework-for-security-public-health-and-safe-communities/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Joint Statement from Mexico and the United\_States on the Implementation of\
  \ the U.S.-Mexico Bicentennial Framework for Security, Public Health, and Safe\_\
  Communities"
---
 
On April 13, U.S. Homeland Security Advisor Dr. Elizabeth
Sherwood-Randall welcomed a delegation led by Mexico’s Secretary of
Security and Citizen Protection Rosa Icela Rodríguez to the White House
to review shared security priorities under the U.S.-Mexico Bicentennial
Framework for Security, Public Health, and Safe Communities and discuss
new collaborative efforts to counter fentanyl trafficking and
consumption and combat arms trafficking across North America.  The
meeting follows through on implementing the commitment that President
Biden and President López Obrador made during the North American
Leaders’ Summit on January 9-10 to elevate and accelerate efforts to
address the synthetic opioid epidemic. 

The Mexican delegation highlighted an April 12 presidential decree that
permits the creation of a presidential commission to fight the
trafficking of illicit synthetic drugs, firearms, and ammunition.  This
special working group will improve coordination among Mexico’s federal
government entities to support the investigation and arrest of
individuals involved in the production and trafficking of fentanyl.  The
United States and Mexico committed to continue joint work to dismantle
the fentanyl supply chain and the Sinaloa Cartel and the Jalisco New
Generation Cartel on both sides of the border.

U.S. and Mexican officials committed to increase cooperation to combat
illegal firearms trafficking.  The Department of Justice (DOJ) and the
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) are deploying
new authorities from the Bipartisan Safer Communities Act to target
southbound firearms flows and working with Mexican counterparts to
increase firearms tracing to identify and choke off the source of
firearms flows into Mexico. 

DOJ’s Operation Southbound, led by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco,
Firearms, and Explosives, encompasses a whole-of-government approach to
disrupt firearms trafficking from the United States to Mexico.  This
initiative, which includes Department of Homeland Security law
enforcement, has significantly increased firearms trafficking
investigations with a nexus to Mexico, as well as firearms and
ammunitions seizures.  DHS is also committed to expanding weapons
seizures through Operation Desert Lightning, which targets known
trafficking corridors as part of an expanded effort under DHS’s
Operation Without a Trace.  The U.S and Mexican delegations committed to
undertake a series of public outreach events across our shared border to
bring greater attention to weapons trafficking enforcement activities.

The United States and Mexico committed to developing a bilingual,
binational public awareness prevention campaign in each country that
educates our citizens, especially young people, on the dangers of
synthetic drugs, including fentanyl, that ravages our communities.  This
campaign will build on President Biden’s launch of a national
anti-fentanyl campaign last week and President López Obrador’s public
efforts to prevent youth drug use in Mexico.  As a first step, the two
countries will convene a binational panel of experts to share
information and best practices on evidence-based substance use and
overdose prevention campaigns among U.S. and Mexican public health
experts.

The Mexican delegation included Secretary of Security Rosa Icela
Rodríguez, Foreign Secretary Marcelo Ebrard, Attorney General Alejandro
Gertz Manero, Secretary of National Defense General Luis Cresencio
Sandoval, Secretary of the Navy Admiral José Rafael Ojeda, Secretary of
Public Health Dr. Jorge Alcocer Álvarez, Director General of the
National Intelligence Center Audomaro Martínez Zapata, Head of the
Federal Commission for the Protection Against Sanitary Risks Dr.
Alejandro Svarch Pérez, Head of National Commission Against Addictions
Gady Zabicky Sirot, Chief Officer for North America at the Foreign
Ministry Roberto Velasco,. and Mexican Ambassador to the United States
Esteban Moctezuma Barragán.  
   
The U.S. delegation included Dr. Elizabeth Sherwood-Randall, Attorney
General Merrick Garland, White House Director of National Drug Control
Policy Dr. Rahul Gupta, Deputy Attorney General Lisa Monaco, Deputy
Secretary of Homeland Security John Tien, U.S. Ambassador to Mexico Ken
Salazar, Assistant Secretary of State for the Bureau of International
Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs (INL) Todd Robinson, Deputy
Assistant Secretary of INL Charisse Phillips, Deputy Assistant Secretary
for the Bureau of Western Hemisphere Affairs Rachel  Poynter, and White
House National Security Council Senior Directors Juan González and
Tiffany Eppelheimer.

\###
