---
date: '2023-04-04'
modified_time: 2023-04-03 18:21:45-04:00
published_time: 2023-04-04 06:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/04/04/biden-harris-administration-releases-inflation-reduction-act-guidebook-for-tribes/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Releases Inflation Reduction Act Guidebook\
  \ for\_Tribes"
---
 
Today, as part of President Biden’s Investing in America agenda, the
White House released the first edition of a new resource, [“Guidebook to
the Inflation Reduction Act’s Clean Energy and Climate Investments in
Indian Country,”](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/cleanenergy/tribes) which
provides clear descriptions of the law’s tax incentives and funding
programs for which Tribes are eligible.

**“Indigenous communities are on the front lines of the intensifying and
unique impacts of the climate crisis. It is critical that Tribes have
access to the benefits of the transformational investments from the
Inflation Reduction Act for the benefit of their people,”** said
Secretary of the Interior Deb Haaland. **“As the Biden-Harris
administration continues to implement this historic law, we will ensure
that Tribes have the opportunity to provide meaningful and
pre-decisional feedback to ensure they can leverage all of the
opportunities presented by this once-in-a-generation opportunity.”  
**  
In keeping with the Biden-Harris Administration’s vision of achieving
prosperity and resilience for all Tribal nations, the Inflation
Reduction Act provides more than $720 million for programs dedicated to
Tribal lands and Native communities. These programs will ensure more
Tribal households have access to affordable and clean electricity, make
Native communities more resilient to the growing threats posed by
climate change, and bring the benefits of clean energy to Indian
Country.

In addition to these dedicated programs, the Guidebook outlines Tribal
eligibility for other aspects of the Inflation Reduction Act, including
billions in grant and loan programs and clean energy tax incentives. As
non-taxable entities, Tribes generally have not benefited from clean
energy tax credits designed to incentivize clean energy deployment. Now,
the Inflation Reduction Act allows Tribes to receive direct payments in
lieu of tax credits, allowing them to get money back on their clean
energy investments.

**“For far too long, federal programs and resources to develop clean,
affordable, and reliable energy have been inaccessible to Native
communities,”** said John Podesta, Senior Advisor to the President for
Clean Energy Innovation and Implementation. **“Today’s guidebook will
help tribes navigate all of the opportunities available to them through
President Biden’s historic Inflation Reduction Act as part of his
Investing in America agenda.”  
**  
Since President Biden signed the Inflation Reduction Act more than seven
months ago, his administration has been working quickly to design,
develop, and implement its programs. This Guidebook provides information
on current and prospective clean energy and climate programs. In the
coming weeks and months, new developments will be published
on [www.CleanEnergy.gov](http://www.cleanenergy.gov/) to keep
stakeholders and potential beneficiaries up to date on the latest
deadlines and details.

The Inflation Reduction Act is a cornerstone of President Biden’s
Investing in America agenda centered on workers, families, and
communities. President Biden has made transparent communication and open
engagement top priorities as a means to ensure successful implementation
and to fully unlock the unprecedented benefits of the law. This
Guidebook is critical step toward delivering on that vision.

To view the Guidebook in full, [click
here](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/cleanenergy/tribes).

\###
