---
date: '2023-04-21'
modified_time: 2023-04-21 13:21:59-04:00
published_time: 2023-04-21 15:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/04/21/president-biden-announces-key-appointments-to-boards-and-commissions-25/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key Appointments to Boards and\_Commissions"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Biden announced his intent to appoint the
following individuals to the Presidential Advisory Commission on
Advancing Educational Equity, Excellence, and Economic Opportunity for
Black Americans:

-   Malcolm Kenyatta, Chair
-   Lezli Baskerville, Member
-   Marla Blunt-Carter, Member
-   Stacy Brown-Philpot, Member
-   Vilicia Cade, Member
-   Vincent Dorien Evans, Member
-   Michael Anthony Holmes, Member
-   Fedrick C. Ingram, Member
-   Lonnie L. Johnson, Member
-   Chad Dion Lassiter, Member
-   Adena Williams Loston, Member
-   William “Billy” Mitchell, Member
-   Clarence A. Nesbitt, Jr., Member
-   Denise Louise Pease, Member
-   Rebecca “Becky” Pringle, Member
-   Marisa J. Richmond, Member
-   Bernice G. Scott, Member
-   Richard “Mouse” Smith, Member
-   Joe Tate, Member
-   Kenny D. Thompson, Jr., Member
-   Benaree “Bennie” Pratt Wiley, Member

**<u>Presidential Advisory Commission on Advancing Educational Equity,
Excellence, and Economic Opportunity for Black Americans</u>**

The Presidential Advisory Commission on Advancing Educational Equity,
Excellence, and Economic Opportunity for Black Americans aids in
developing, implementing, and coordinating educational programs and
initiatives for agencies such as the Department of Education.
Specifically, the Commission provides advice to the President through
the Secretary of Education on matters pertaining to educational equity
and economic opportunity for the Black community. The Commission
primarily focuses on: 1) promoting career pathways for Black students
through programs such as internships, apprenticeships and work-based
learning initiatives, 2) increasing public awareness of the educational
disparities Black Americans face and providing solutions to these
problems, and 3) establishing local and national relationships with
public, private, philanthropic, and nonprofit stakeholders to advance
the mission of equity, excellence, and economic opportunity for Black
Americans.

**Malcolm Kenyatta, Chair**

Representative Malcolm Kenyatta is a third-generation North Philadelphia
native, thought leader, and legislator, currently serving in the
Pennsylvania General Assembly. He earned his Bachelor of Arts in Public
Communications with a minor in Political Science from Temple University
and his Master of Science in Strategic and Digital Communications from
Drexel University. Kenyatta also completed the Harvard Kennedy School’s
Executives in State and Local Government Program. Kenyatta was chosen
for multiple prestigious fellowships and international delegations,
including the Bertelsmann Leadership Fellow in the Digital Economy, the
bipartisan Hunt/Kean Leadership Fellow in Education, and the American
Jewish Committee Project Interchange.

Kenyatta is a barrier-breaking public figure, becoming the first openly
LGBTQ+ Person of Color and one of the youngest members elected to the PA
General Assembly in 2018. In 2022, he became the first openly LGBTQ+
Person of Color to run for the U.S. Senate in American history. Kenyatta
has been a vocal proponent of protecting workers’ rights, enacting
common-sense gun safety policies, and rooting out government corruption
and waste. He has multiple legislative leadership roles, serving as a
Member of the State Government Committee with oversight on state
agencies and elections, Chair of the Subcommittee on Campaign Finance
and Elections, Chair of Automation and Technology in the Committee on
Commerce, and Member of the Finance Committee. Since his election, he
has served on Governor Tom Wolf’s Suicide Prevention Task Force and has
been a member of the Philadelphia Delegation leadership team.

Kenyatta lives in North Philadelphia with his husband Dr. Matthew
Kenyatta and their dog Cleo.

**Lezli Baskerville, Member**

Attorney Lezli Baskerville, an Honors graduate of Howard University
School of Law and a constitutional justice lawyer, is a Howard
University School of Law Lifetime Achiever. She is an Honors graduate of
Douglass College at Rutgers University and a Douglass Society inductee,
which she received in recognition of her work on improving the quality
of life for vulnerable populations. Baskerville is the CEO of the
National Association for Equal Opportunity in Higher Education, the
membership and advocacy association of richly diverse HBCUs and PBIs.
Baskerville, a Harvard University Advanced Leadership Fellow, served in
the Education Group/Lawyers Committee for Civil Rights Under Law on the
NAACP Legislative Counsel, as a National Black Leadership Roundtable
Chief, as a DC Administrative Appeals Judge, and as a senior executive
staff for members and committees of Congress. Baskerville has directed
34 political campaigns, designed and directed public policy campaigns,
and wrote articles in or edited 40 public policy documents credited with
shaping public opinion on state, national, and global policy.

Baskerville is a Founding Investor and Member of the Board of ECRID, the
first Black-Founded and controlled publicly traded credit bureau and
lending corporation that offers a fix to FICO and credit access to a
broader and more diverse applicant pool. Baskerville has been by the
Higher Education Leadership Foundation as “Woman of the Year,” by
STEMConnector as one of “100 Women Leaders in STEM,” by Diverse Issues
in Higher as one of “25Women Making a Difference,” by AOL Black Voices
as one of the Nation’s “Top 10 Black Women in Higher Education,” and by
*Ebony Magazine* for six consecutive years as one of America’s Top 100
Most Influential Association Leaders. Baskerville is acknowledged in The
History Makers as a distinguished lawmaker.

**Marla Blunt-Carter, Member**

Marla Blunt-Carter is an Associate Professor of Professional Practice at
Rutgers University School of Social Work in New Brunswick, New Jersey.
As a recipient of multiple teaching awards, she instructs graduate-level
courses on social policy, community organizing, advocacy, and political
social work. Blunt-Carter holds a Bachelor of Arts in Political Science
from the University of Delaware and a Master of Social Work from Rutgers
University. Blunt-Carter combines social work practice approaches and
her extensive background in political and public policy work to provide
a unique perspective to her teaching.

Blunt-Carter’s professional experience includes serving as Projects
Manager and Director of Constituent Services for then-U.S. Senator
Joseph R. Biden Jr., Delaware State Director for the 2008 Obama-Biden
Presidential Campaign, and Senior Agency Liaison in the Office of
Presidential Correspondence for the Obama-Biden Administration.
Blunt-Carter has also held positions as Senior Advisor and
Communications Director for Delaware’s Insurance Commissioner and
Director of Community Planning and Policy Development for the Delaware
HIV Consortium.

In 2015, Blunt-Carter became the Senior Advisor and Political Strategist
for Lisa Blunt Rochester, who became the first woman and Person of Color
to represent Delaware in the U.S. House of Representatives. She
continues to provide consultation to the Congresswoman and also provides
assistance to other local officials in Delaware. Blunt-Carter’s
exceptional ability to merge her experience in political and public
policy with social work gives her a distinctive perspective, making her
an outstanding educator and mentor to her students.

**Stacy Brown-Philpot, Member**

Stacy Brown-Philpot is Founder & Managing Partner at Cherryrock Capital,
an early-stage venture firm focused on investing in Black and Latinx
entrepreneurs. She is the former CEO of TaskRabbit, the leading task
management network, which she led from a fast-growing startup into a
global business, and eventually to its successful acquisition by the
IKEA Group. Prior to that, Brown-Philpot spent over a decade with Google
and Google Ventures where she lent strategic expertise, led global
operations for key Google flagship products, and served as Head of
Online Sales and Operations for Google India. Brown-Philpot also brings
a background in finance from her experience at PricewaterhouseCoopers
and Goldman Sachs.

Brown-Philpot is a founding member of SoftBank’s $100mm Opportunity
Fund, established to invest in Black and Latinx entrepreneurs. She is on
the Board of Directors for HP Inc., Nordstrom, Noom, StockX, Joy, Black
Girls Code, and The Urban Institute. She was named a 2016 Henry Crown
Fellow with the Aspen Institute and has been ranked by *Business
Insider* as one of the 46 Most Important Blacks in Technology.
Originally from Detroit, where she developed a deep and abiding love for
all things Motown, Brown-Philpot now resides in the San Francisco Bay
Area with her husband and two daughters. She holds a Bachelor of Science
in Economics from the Wharton School of Business at the University of
Pennsylvania and a Master of Business Administration from the Graduate
School of Business at Stanford University.

**Vilicia Cade, Member**

Vilicia Cade, an accomplished educational leader, scholar, author, and
social justice advocate, is the first Black female CEO and
Superintendent of the Capital School District in Dover, Delaware. Cade
is the only Black female Superintendent in the state, and she brings
over three decades of improving outcomes for vulnerable children and
adults to her current role. Her portfolio of public-private partnerships
validates her track record in improving the quality of life and economic
opportunities for her students. Cade is known for her inspired and
innovative approaches to bolstering community, faith-based, and business
partnerships interrupting the school-to-prison pipeline. Notably, she
was a key administrator of the Brooklyn High School’s New Visions reform
project, Co-Creator of the College Readiness Scholars Institute at the
University of Delaware, and is credited for launching numerous parent
empowerment programs.

Cade enthusiastically embraces her personal journey as a former ward of
the State of New York, described in her debut bestseller *If Not For
Love*. Her story resonates with many Black Americans illuminating the
gaps in our child welfare system. Her childhood has established a firm
foundation for resilience proving why empowering the disenfranchised is
quintessential. Cade has served on boards such as Northeast Ohio Boys &
Girls Club and United Way of Delaware. Cade earned her bachelor’s
degree, three master’s degrees, and doctorate from New York University.
In 2020, she received the prestigious Zeta Phi Beta Sorority Inc.
Education Advocate Centennial Dove Award. A radio personality on the
Stellar Awarded WNZN in Lorain, Ohio, she uses urban inspiration to
connect the significance of service, educational equity, and economic
development.

**Vincent Dorien Evans, Member**

Vincent Evans serves as Executive Director of the Congressional Black
Caucus. He oversees the legislative policy agenda, manages the external
and political affairs of the Caucus, and provides strategic leadership
for the Caucus’ 58 Members of Congress. Prior to this role, Evans served
as the Deputy Director of the Office of Public Engagement and
Intergovernmental Affairs for Vice President Kamala Harris at the White
House where he was responsible for creating and coordinating direct
dialogue between the Biden-Harris administration and the diverse
American public. He worked at the local, state, and national levels to
ensure community leaders, diverse perspectives, and new voices all had
the opportunity to inform the work of the President and Vice President.
Evans served as Political Director to then-Senator Kamala Harris on the
Biden-Harris Campaign during the general election and the campaign’s
Southern Political Director during the primary season. Prior to this, he
served on the senior staff of U.S. Representative Al Lawson of Florida,
with a portfolio that focused on state and local issues.

Before his role in the Congress, Evans worked as the Aide to Tallahassee
City Commissioner Curtis Richardson after running Richard’s successful
campaign. His experience includes working at a government relations firm
focused on state legislative matters in the Florida Senate Democratic
Caucus for Democratic Leader Nan Rich and later at a cabinet-level state
agency. He managed or served in leadership roles on the campaigns of the
two most recent Florida Democratic gubernatorial nominees and several
local, state, and congressional races in Florida. In 2022, Evans was
named a “Young Black Changemaker” by NextGen America, the Nation’s
largest youth voter organization. Born and raised in Florida, Evans
attended Florida A&M University.

**Michael Anthony Holmes, Member**

Michael A. Holmes currently serves as President and CEO of MD and
Partners, a consulting firm that focuses on strategic community planning
and program development, and Executive Director of the Black Community
Provider Network, a collaboration of Community Based Organizations in
Illinois. Holmes is the former Executive Director of the Illinois
African American Family Commission. He has served as an administrator
for more than 20 years in both the City of Chicago and State of
Illinois. Holmes has also served as former Vice President of Operations
for Westside Holistic Services and Statewide Quality Assurance
Administrator for six regions in the State of Illinois. Over the last 15
years, Holmes has been actively involved in working with the State of
Illinois General Assembly as Deputy and Associate Director of two State
agencies. Holmes worked specifically with the Illinois Legislative Black
Caucus to monitor and identify policies and legislation that affect the
African American communities in the State of Illinois. As Executive
Director of the Illinois African American Family Commission, Holmes
developed the role of liaison to the Governor’s office and the State’s
administration for the purpose of recommending State services and
resources to communities.

Holmes is actively engaged in civic and community activities. He is
currently a member of the Youth and Child Development Committee for
Congressman Danny Davis of the 7<sup>th</sup> Congressional District,
Chairman of the Country Club Hills Police and Fire Commission, former
Chairman of the Country Club Hills Umbrella Project, and former Member
of the Illinois Department of Human Services Child Care Advisory
Council. Holmes has also served as Coach and League Coordinator for CHA
Midnight Basketball, Coordinator of Chicago Housing Authority Biddy
Basketball, Volunteer for Chicago Inner City Games, former Member of the
child watch African American Family Commission, former Member of the
Illinois Department of Human Services Statewide Advisory Committee,
former Commissioner at the Country Club Hills Park District, Founding
Member of the Department of Children and Family Services African
American Advisory Council, and Member of the Statewide Foster Parent
Recruitment and Retention Steering Committee.

As a Seaman in the United States Navy, Holmes completed his basic
training at the Great Lakes Naval Base and completed eighteen months of
military service at the Naval War College, an international military
leadership training institute. As a result of his service at the
College, Holmes became a computer operator, which enabled him to develop
war strategy. He received an associate’s degree from Kennedy King Jr
College and bachelor’s degree and master’s degree in Inner City Studies
from Northeastern Illinois University. Holmes has been married to his
wife for 40 years and they have raised four sons in the Chicago land
area.

**Fedrick C. Ingram, Member**

Fedrick C. Ingram is Secretary-Treasurer of the American Federation of
Teachers (AFT), serving 1.7 million members. Ingram is the immediate
former President of the 140,000-member Florida Education Association. He
served as Vice President of the AFT’s Executive Council from 2014 to
2020 before getting elected as the AFT’s Secretary-Treasurer. Ingram
grew up in inner-city Miami where he attended public schools. Pursuing
his love of music, he attended Bethune-Cookman University on a
scholarship and became the first member of his family to earn a
postsecondary degree in music education. In 2006, he was named the
Francisco R. Walker Miami-Dade County Teacher of the Year. He was also a
finalist for the state of Florida Teacher of the Year Award in 2006.  In
addition to his bachelor’s degree from Bethune-Cookman, Ingram earned a
master’s degree in educational leadership from Barry University and
holds an honorary doctorate of Humane Letters from Florida Memorial
University for a lifetime of work in education. 

**Lonnie L. Johnson, Member**

Lonnie L. Johnson retired from Exxon Mobil Corporation in 2019 as Senior
Counsel, Downstream Commercial Litigation. Prior to serving in that
position, Lonnie served as Senior Director, Federal Relations at Exxon
Mobil Corporation in Washington, DC. Lonnie received his J.D, with
distinction, from The University of Iowa College of Law, where he served
on the Iowa Law Review and was a member of the Phi Delta Phi Legal
Fraternity. Johnson earned his Bachelor of Science from the University
of Nebraska at Omaha. Johnson currently serves on the Board of the
Congressional Black Caucus Foundation and on the Tugaloo College
Research Board. Johnson also serves on the Board of Silence the Shame,
an organization dedicated to removing the stigma associated with mental
illness and getting people the help they need. Johnson is a former
member of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Advisory Board and the Board
of the National Democratic Club. He served on the Board of Council for
Legal Education Opportunities for more than 10 years. Johnson is married
to Eartha Jean Johnson and they have three children, Te’iva Johnson Bell
(Criminal District Court Judge, Harris County Texas), Ti’era Johnson
Williams (Prosecutor, Family Violence Cases, Harris County Texas), and
Antuan Johnson (Criminal Defense Attorney, Houston Texas).

**Chad Dion Lassiter, Member**

Chad Dion Lassiter is a national expert in the field of American Race
Relations. Lassiter has worked on race, peace, and poverty-related
issues in the United States, Africa, Canada, Haiti, Israel, and Norway.
Lassiter is the current Executive Director of the Pennsylvania Human
Relations Commission where he has developed and launched a “No Hate in
Our State Townhall” to address the surge of White Nationalism in
Pennsylvania, a “Social Justice Lecture Series” providing an outlet for
communities to discuss imperative issues, and serves as a Racial
Reduction Response team for those communities impacted by hatred.
Lassiter has also developed programs such as the “Global Social Justice
Initiative,” “Black and Jewish Beloved Community Dialogue,” and the
“College Race Dialogue Initiative.”

Lassiter received his master’s degree from the University of
Pennsylvania Graduate School of Social Work, where he was the A. Phillip
Randolph Award winner in 2001 and was the recipient of the prestigious
Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Community Involvement Award in 2008.

Lassiter is the Co-Founder and current President of The Black Men at
Penn School of Social Work, Inc., an organization within the School of
Social Policy and Practice at the University of Pennsylvania, the first
Ivy League Black male group of social workers. In 2019, he was inducted
into the School of Social Policy and Practice Alumni Hall of Fame.
Lassiter was recently chosen as the National Association of Social
Workers – Pennsylvania Chapter’s Social Worker of the Year for 2021 and
was recognized by the Philadelphia Tribune as “The Most Influential
African American Leader from 2010-2022.”

**Adena Williams Loston, Member**

Dr. Adena Williams Loston possesses over 40 years of professional
leadership experience including spearheading a national agenda for
education, engaging communities in addressing economic development
issues, providing organizational and institutional leadership towards
workforce readiness and academic preparation. She has served as the
14<sup>th</sup> President of St. Philip’s College, the Nation’s
Historically Black College and Hispanic Serving Institution, since 2007
with responsibilities for 13,000 students including four early college
high schools, programs at three military base sites and dual credit and
P-TECH programs. Through her strategic leadership and management
oversight in 2018, St. Philip’s College received the Governor’s Award
for Performance Excellence and the national Malcolm Baldrige Award as
one of the Alamo Colleges. She has instituted the Planning Budget and
Assessment Cycle, Resource Allocation Process, President’s Academy,
Department Chair Academy, Good to Great Strategic Planning Process, and
three Centers of Excellence. Loston also provides oversight for $400
Million in new and renovated facilities construction.

Loston previously served as the Chief Education Office for the National
Aeronautics and Space Administration in Washington DC, President of San
Jacinto College South, and held administrative positions at Santa Monica
College and the El Paso County Community College District. She has also
served as an associate professor at George State University and
instructor at Arkansas State University. Loston was a three-term
appointee to the HBCU Capital Financing Committee. She graduated Alcorn
State University with a bachelor’s degree in 1973 and received her M.Ed.
and Ph.D. degrees from Bowling Green State University in 1974 and
1979.  

**William “Billy” Mitchell, Member**

Representative William “Billy” Mitchell, a former public-school teacher,
was previously elected to the City Council of the historic Stone
Mountain in 1995. His colleagues then unanimously selected him to serve
as Vice Mayor. Appointed Chair of the Finance Committee, he led the City
to “outstanding financial status,” as reported by independent auditors.
Among the ordinances he was most proud to author, Representative
Mitchell granted the City the authority to erect the “Freedom Bell” in
the middle of its downtown, commemorating Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.’s
call – in his immortal “I Have a Dream” speech – to “let freedom ring,
from Stone Mountain of Georgia!”

A depended upon leader in the Georgia General Assembly, Mitchell has
authored legislation signed into law every term he has served. His
Caucus in the State Legislature selected him to receive their highest
honor, the “Legislator of the Year” award, after only his second term.
Mitchell earned his Bachelor of Science degree from Rutgers University
in New Brunswick, New Jersey, his Masters of Arts degree from the
University of Southern California in Los Angeles, and his Juris Doctor
degree from Atlanta Law School. Mitchell has also been bestowed a
Doctorate degree from the Trinity United School of Ambassadors. Elected
by his colleagues, he currently serves as Chair of the Georgia House of
Representatives Democratic Caucus. He was also elected by his nationwide
peers to serve as President of the National Black Caucus of State
Legislators (NBCSL) and now serves as President of the NBCSL Foundation.
NBCSL members represent seventy million Americans, and former members of
NBCSL include 40% of the current Congressional Black Caucus and the 44th
U.S. President. Mitchell was also elected to serve on the Executive
Committee of the National Conference of State Legislators, which is the
world’s largest legislative organization serving legislators and
legislative staff in all of America’s 50 states and territories.

**Clarence A. Nesbitt, Jr., Member**

Clarence A. Nesbitt is the Chief Legal Officer and Corporate Secretary
of THINK450, the business, innovation, and partnership engine of the
National Basketball Players Association (NBPA). In this role, Nesbitt
serves as the principal legal advisor across THINK450’s business units,
working to propel the organization’s next stage of growth by amplifying
the value of the collective players’ rights, expanding commercial
opportunities, and securing innovative deals in the business of
basketball among other responsibilities. Prior to this role, Nesbitt has
served as the NBPA’s General Counsel where he led the legal and
government affairs functions of the union, negotiated modifications to
the collective bargaining agreement associated with the coronavirus
pandemic, and led the successful voluntary recognition campaign to
unionize the NBA G League players (the NextGen Basketball Players
Association).

Nesbitt attended Florida A&M University, where he received a Bachelor of
Science in Business Administration and a Master’s Degree in Business
Administration. Nesbitt went on to Georgetown University Law Center in
Washington, DC for his Juris Doctor degree. Nesbitt currently serves on
the Board of Trustees for the Central Park Conservancy and the Black
Entertainment & Sports Lawyers Association.

**Denise L. Pease, Member**

Denise L. Pease has committed her dynamic career as a senior government
executive to developing impactful and sustainable policies that improve
the lives of people, particularly those living in low- and
moderate-income communities, by providing greater access and
opportunities. Her talent for identifying problems and finding viable
solutions has gained her the respect of national and international
government, business, and community leaders. Pease served as the
Northeast and Caribbean Regional Administrator at the General Services
Administration in the Obama-Biden Administration. Through her
leadership, the region succeeded in increasing minority business
participation, returning the federal government to the World Trade
Center site, and reconstructing federal government facilities and
services after Hurricane Sandy. She has also served as the New York
State Deputy Superintendent of Banks and the New York City Assistant
Comptroller for Commercial Banking. In both positions, she created and
implemented policy initiatives that increased banking services to the
un-banked and under-banked communities.

Denise is a disability advocate, having developed and advocated on
behalf of those with epilepsy and as a breast cancer survivor. Denise
earned a Bachelor of Arts degree from Columbia University’s School of
General Studies. She has furthered her pursuit to develop innovative
sustainable solutions to the economic disparity found in many
communities through the completion of advanced studies at
internationally renowned educational institution including Executive
Management training at the European Institute of Business Administration
(INSEAD) Paris – Strategic Management of Financial Structures Programme.
She has received numerous awards and recognition for her accomplishments
including serving as a National Urban Fellow at the Bernard Baruch
School of Public Administration and as a Charles H. Revson Fellow on the
Future of New York at Columbia University.

Denise devotes her time to working with organizations to ensure that
future generations have lives of endless possibilities, including her
work with UN Women, the Disability Council of the DNC, the Greater
Queens Chapter of the Links, Inc., and serving as a Life Member of NAACP
and Heritage Member of the Claude B. Govan Chapter of Tuskegee Airmen,
Inc.

**Rebecca “Becky” Pringle, Member**

National Education Association (NEA) President Becky Pringle is a fierce
social justice warrior, defender of educator rights, unrelenting
advocate for all students and communities of color, and valued and
respected voice in the education arena.

A middle school science teacher with more than three decades of
classroom experience, Pringle is singularly focused on uniting the
members of the largest labor union with the Nation, and using that
collective power to transform public education into a racially and
socially just and equitable system that is designed to prepare every
student to succeed in a diverse and interdependent world.

Pringle’s passion for students and educators, combined with her
first-hand classroom experience, equip her to lead the movement to
reclaim public education as a common good. Before assuming NEA’s top
post in 2020, Pringle served as NEA Vice President and before that as
NEA Secretary-Treasurer. She directed NEA’s work to combat institutional
racism and spotlight systemic patterns of racism and educational
injustice that impact students. Under Pringle’s guidance, NEA works to
widen access and opportunity by demanding changes to policies, programs,
and practices. The Association’s goal is to ensure the systemic, fair
treatment of people of all races so that equitable opportunities and
outcomes are within reach for every student. This is why Pringle is a
staunch advocate for students who have disabilities, identify as LGBTQ+,
are immigrants, or English Language Learners.

Pringle is a passionate Philadelphia Eagles fan, loves anything purple,
and is the “Best Nana B” ever for two special someone’s.

**Marisa J. Richmond, Member**

Marisa J. Richmond teaches history and women’s and gender studies at
Middle Tennessee State University. She previously taught at Tennessee
State University, Vanderbilt University, and Nashville State Community
College. She is the current President of the Tennessee Federation of
Democratic Women, and a Co-Chair of the Transgender Advisory Committee
of the Democratic National Committee. Locally, she is a member of the
Metro Historical Commission, having previously served as a member, and
Past Chair, of the Metro Human Relations Commission. She also served on
the Mayor’s Council on the Status of Women and the Davidson County
General Sessions Court Judicial Equity Collective.  Previously, she
served many years as the President and Lobbyist for the Tennessee
Transgender Political Coalition. 

Richmond is a prolific author and speaker on transgender rights, and has
served on many boards at the local, state, and national levels. She has
been recognized for her work with many awards. Richmond has three
degrees, all in U.S. History. Her Bachelor of Arts is from Harvard
University, her Master of Arts from the University of California,
Berkeley, and her Ph.D. from George Washington University.

**Bernice G. Scott, Member**

Bernice G. Scott is a resident of Hopkins, South Carolina. She has 20
years of experience serving as a member of Richland County Council in
South Carolina, including a tenure as Chairwoman. She has 15 years of
experience working in county and state government, including service in
Governor Jim Hodges’ administration. She is the founder of the
nationally recognized grassroots political advocacy group, The Reckoning
Crew. Since retiring from county government, she has been volunteering
with the Tri-City Visionaries, Inc. to help senior citizens in rural and
disadvantaged areas repair and secure their homes.  She is the mother of
two children, five grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.

**Richard “Mouse” Smith, Member**

Richard “Mouse” Smith is a lifelong Delawarean — his family has been in
Delaware since the 1860s. Smith is the President of Delaware’s NAACP
Coalition of Branches and he has been in the NAACP since 1959. He was a
union president for eight years and worked at the Port of Wilmington for
42 years. Over the years, he has worked with seven Wilmington mayors and
six Delaware governors. Smith helped establish the Delaware Rainbow
Coalition with Jesse Jackson, which was part of the coalition to
desegregate schools. Education has been integral in his life, and it is
one of his main priorities for his community.

He has been friends with President Biden for over 50 years. The people
and leadership of the City of Wilmington and State of Delaware made him
who is today.

**Joe Tate, Member**

Representative Joe Tate is serving his third term and now represents
Michigan’s 10th State House District, a diverse community that covers
Detroit’s lower east side and the communities of the Village of Grosse
Pointe Shores, Grosse Pointe Woods, Grosse Pointe Farms, Grosse Pointe
City, and Grosse Pointe Park. Tate is Michigan’s first Black Speaker of
the House, now holding the gavel and setting House priorities in a
legislative term in which Democrats have the majority for the first time
in over a decade. His policy priorities include uplifting Michigan
families, protecting the rights of all people, ensuring workers are
valued, and investing in a world-class education system, a strong
infrastructure, and a thriving economy.

Tate decided to run for office as a part of his deep and lifelong
commitment to public service. The value of service was taught to him by
his parents—a teacher in the Detroit public school system and a Detroit
firefighter. As a teenager, Tate earned a scholarship to play football
at Michigan State University before joining the National Football League
(NFL). After the NFL, he went on to serve in the U.S. Marine Corps,
deploying twice to Afghanistan during Operation Enduring Freedom. After
an honorable discharge from the Marine Corps, he earned both an MBA and
a master’s in environmental policy and planning from the University of
Michigan. Before joining the Legislature, Tate helped small businesses
grow their capacity as a program manager for the Detroit Economic Growth
Corp.

**Kenny D. Thompson, Jr., Member**

Kenny Thompson, Jr. is the Chief Public Affairs Officer at Vail Resorts
(NYSE: MTN) overseeing government relations, community relations,
communications, sustainability, and the Company’s social responsibility
platform, EpicPromise. Vail Resorts is the leading global mountain
resort operator with 41 resorts in 15 states and four
countries—including some of the world’s most iconic destinations as well
as travel-centric retail and hospitality businesses.

Prior to joining Vail Resorts, Thompson served as the Vice President of
External Affairs, North America at PepsiCo. While at PepsiCo, he
developed PepsiCo’s strategy for targeting, investing, cultivating, and
maintaining partnerships with external stakeholders to support PepsiCo’s
broader business goals. Before joining PepsiCo in 2013, Thompson held
several positions in the Obama-Biden Administration, including Director
of Message Events for then-Vice President Joe Biden, Senior Advisor to
United States Trade Representative Ron Kirk, and Special Assistant and
Advance Lead for President Barack Obama. In 2020, Thompson was selected
to serve on the Biden-Harris Transition as the Private Sector Liaison
where he provided strategic and management oversight of the interaction
with the private sector while managing relationships with Fortune 500
CEOs, Wall Street firms, venture-backed enterprises, and industry
groups.

A native Texan, Thompson completed his bachelor’s degree at Texas
Christian University, where he was a member of the Horned Frog baseball
team. He later earned a Master of Business Administration from
Georgetown University. Currently, Thompson serves on the Board of
Trustees at Texas Christian University and the Board of Directors at the
Sandy Hook Promise Foundation.

**Benaree “Bennie” Pratt Wiley, Member**

Benaree “Bennie” Pratt Wiley is a Corporate Director and Trustee. For
fifteen years, Wiley was the President and Chief Executive Officer of
The Partnership, Inc., an organization that strengthened Greater
Boston’s capacity to attract, retain, and develop talented professionals
of color. Wiley is currently a director on boards of the BNY Mellon
Mutual Funds and CBIZ (NYSE: CBZ). She has served as the Chair of
PepsiCo’s African American Advisory Board and formerly served on the
boards of Blue Cross Blue Shield of Massachusetts and First Albany
(NASDAQ: FACT). Her civic activities include serving on the boards of
Dress for Success Boston, Spaulding Hospital, and formerly Howard
University where she served as Vice Chair. She is a frequent speaker on
leadership, diversity, and professional development, and has been the
recipient of numerous awards, honors, and four Honorary Doctorates
including from Boston College and New England School of Law. Among her
many honors are induction into the Academy of Distinguished Bostonians,
the Pinnacle Award for Lifetime Achievement from the Greater Boston
Chamber of Commerce, and Harvard Business School Distinguished Alumni
Award from the African American Student Union. Wiley also had the honor
of being featured on the cover of *Boston* magazine as one of Boston’s
most powerful women and being the subject of a Harvard Business School
case, “Bennie Wiley and The Partnership.”

\###
