---
category: press-briefings
date: '2022-01-31'
modified_time: 2022-01-31 17:52:39-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/01/31/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-january-31-2022/
published_time: 2022-01-31 17:45:00-05:00
title: Press Briefing by Press Secretary Jen Psaki, January 31, 2022
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

1:10 P.M. EST

     MS. PSAKI:  Hi, everyone.  Hello.  Happy Monday.  Okay, I just have
two items for all of you at the top.

     During President Biden’s first 11 months in office, American
agricultural exports reached a record $160 billion, generating an
estimated $342 billion in total economic output and supporting more than
1.2 million jobs here in the United States.  While we’re proud of this
historic progress, we know that agricultural exports could have
increased even more but for pandemic-induced supply chain challenges.

     For example, the Port of Oakland, which is underutilized, where
other ports are — you know, get most of the traffic.  So, the U.S.
Department of Agriculture is partnering with the Port of Oakland to set
up a new 25-acre pop-up site to make it easier for agricultural
companies to fill empty shipping containers with commodities, like
American soybeans, dairy, and specialty crops such as nuts and fruit to
ensure there can be more of these goods shipped out of that port.

     USDA and the Department of Transportation also continue to call on
ocean carriers to mitigate disruptions to agricultural shippers by
restoring service — full and fair service to the Port of Oakland,
meaning they shouldn’t bypass it.  They should go there because there’s
going to be all these big shipping containers of agricultural goods.

     One other item before we get to your questions.  Today, we released
the first edition of our Bipartisan Infrastructure Law guidebook to help
state, local, Tribal, and territorial governments acr- — access the
benefits from the historic investments in our nation’s infrastructure
bill.

     The guidebook is a one-stop shop on the Bipartisan Infrastructure
Law and contains the most comprehensive information to date on the more
than 375 programs included in the law.

     And our primary goal with this is to help our partners across the
country know what to apply for, who to contact for help, and how to get
ready to rebuild, especially for underserved and overburdened
communities who may have more limited municipal capacity to navigate
funding programs available.

     We’ve also published an accompanying data file that allows users to
quickly sort programs funded under the law by fields like agency,
amount, recipient, or program name to make it eas- — as easy as humanly
possible.

     With that, Zeke.

     Q    Thanks, Jen.  I just wanted to start with tensions between
Russia and Ukraine.  We’ve heard in the last couple of days from some
Ukrainian offi- — government officials minimizing or downplaying the
imminence of a potential Russian invasion.  There seems to be disconnect
between Washington and Kyiv here.  And is there concerns in Washington
that talking up the Russian threat is, in fact, weakening the Ukrainian
government? 

     MS. PSAKI:  Well, I can only speak for our intention and our
responsibility, and we feel it’s important to be open and candid about
the threat from Russia. 

     It’s not just words, of course.  You are seeing specifics that
we’ve been laying out here, including over 100,000 troops on Ukraine’s
borders — amassed on the border, with more troops and weaponry on the
way. 

They’ve also been surging troops into Belarus, which our U.N. ambassador
spoke about this morning, seeing about 5- — a surge of 5,000 troops in
Belarus with plans for more in the coming weeks. 

We’re also seeing Russia undertake efforts to destabilize Ukraine,
including through a possible false-flag operation.  It’s dangerous. 
We’ve been saying for more than a week that Russia could invade at any
time. 

I would note, though, that our effort is to ensure we’re informing the
American public and the global community of the seriousness of this
threat, even as we work with the Ukrainians, with the Europeans to
ensure we are not only preparing them and providing them supplies that
they need, but standing up and making clear to the Russians what the
consequences will be. 

     So, I can’t speak to the motivation or the reasoning for the
comments of Ukrainian leadership; I can only speak to what our efforts
are here. 

     Q    And is there any discussions underway in Washington of
providing, sort of, economic stabilization to the Ukrainian government
as they try to deal with capital flight and other sort of domestic
concerns as this sort of stalemate continues right now?

     MS. PSAKI:  Additional economic assistance beyond humanitarian
assistance or other economic we — assistance we’ve provided?

     Q    Yeah.

     MS. PSAKI:  I’m not aware of that, but I can check and see if
there’s more specifics from our team.

     Q    And then, on Capitol Hill, there — this bipartisan legislation
that seems to be coming through pretty quickly that would include,
potentially, preemptive sanctions against Russia ahead of a potential
invasion — a further invasion: Is that something the President is
willing to sign into law should it pass?

     MS. PSAKI:  Well, we are working very closely with Congress on U- —
on Ukraine and Russia and the tensions we’re seeing build up at the
border.  We’ve briefed you on the number of conversations we’ve had,
both in a classified and an unclassified format, and we’ve also had a
range of conversations about this legislation. 

     We certainly are encouraged by the fact that there is bipartisan
discussions about how to hold Russia accountable, how to have a
deterrent impact. 

     Our view is that sanctions can be an effective tool of deterrence,
and the deepening selloff in Russian markets reflects our message — our
message to Russia.

     But we are in these conversations with Congress, and we look
forward to continuing those.

     Q    And just on a different topic, we heard a few minutes ago from
Governor Hutchinson, calling on the CDC and the federal government to
provide more — clearer guidance for the American public as COVID-19
moves from the pandemic stage to more of an endemic virus that we all
have to live with for some time. 

     Can you speak a little bit of how the — does — is that something
the President believes as well?  And is there a disconnect between the
White House’s messaging for Americans that they should go about — you
know, take precautions but they can go about their daily lives in the
midst of this Omicron surge, particularly if they’re vaccinated and
boosted, but also the precautions that are taken because the President
is the President — you know, the distance between him and the governors;
you know, not going to dinner last night with the other governors;
things like — of that sort?

     MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say, first, there are a number of
precautions that we have long taken from the White House and around the
President and Vice President, which I think is to be expected.  He still
participated in the event last night. 

     The President’s view, which I think you heard him speak to in his
press conference just about 10 days ago, is that COVID and our efforts
to address COVID are not going to exist in this current world we’re
living in now.

     This is not the new normal — what we’re living in, in this moment. 
And that’s important for the public to understand, because right now
we’re seeing record hospitalizations.  You know, we are seeing — we are
still living with a range of precautions that change how people live
their lives. 

     And in the President’s view, that is not — that is not living with
COVID in a way that it doesn’t disrupt your life, given we’re still
dealing with surges across the country. 

     It is also true, as you heard him talk about — and this is where I
don’t think there’s a disconnect; maybe it’s a — maybe it’s the use of
words — that we have a range of tools that we had — did not have a year
ago.  Right? 

     And this is something we’ve obviously been in close discussion with
governors about, whether it is, of course, the fact that more than 87
percent of the — of the country — adults are — have received at least
one dose; or the fact that we’ve just ordered a huge supply of pills —
that is a game changer in many ways; or that we have masks that are now
being distributed across the country and tests as well. 

     So, we are in a dif- — a very different place.  I don’t think we
see it as a disconnect.  The President’s view is that right now we still
need to keep our heads down and stay at it to fight what is still, you
know, surging in parts of the country, but we do have the tools to get
to a point where it does not disrupt our daily lives. 

     Go ahead.

     Q    Can you give us any update on the President’s search for a
Supreme Court nominee?  He mentioned he’s going to be having in-person
meetings here at the White House. 

     MS. PSAKI:  Mm-hmm.

     Q    Is that something that might begin this week?

     MS. PSAKI:  Yes, I can give you an update.  So, as you have heard
the President say, he is — he will do his duty to select a justice not
only with the Senate’s consent, but with its advice.

     As somebody who served on the Senate Judiciary Committee and was
Chair — both as Chair and ranking member, he is steeped in this process
and looks forward to advice from members of both parties on the Hill, as
well as top legal experts and scholars across the country, working with
the Vice President and his team at the White House.  And I think you
will see those consultations start this week. 

     So, tomorrow, the President is going to host Chairman Durbin and
Ranking Member Grassley at the White House to consult with them and hear
their advice about this vacancy.  Chairman Durbin has worked on seven
Supreme Court confirmation processes.  The President has also worked for
many years with Senator Grassley and respects his knowledge and views.

     So, this will be part of that process, and I expect we’ll have more
details to confirm as the week proceeds. 

     Q    The President has said he’s going to be, you know, reaching
across the aisle, obviously, as he makes this decision.  We heard, over
the weekend, Senator Lindsey Graham supporting his fellow South
Carolinian, Judge J. Michelle Childs.  Is bipartisan support a must-have
for this President or something that he would simply like to have?

     MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think, one, we appreciate Senator Graham’s
thoughts, and the President is working hard to choose from a wealth of
deeply qualified candidates who bring to bear the strongest records,
credentials, and abilities that anyone could have for this role. 

     I think, as the President views it, what’s his — his objective and
his intention is to choose from among a group of — of Black women with
impeccable — an impeccable record — impeccable records and impeccable
credentials.  And he expects the Senate, Democrats and Republicans, to
consider the qualifications of these nominees and do that, as it has
been done historically for many decades in the past. 

So, we certainly expect and he has every intention of nominating
somebody who — with impeccable credentials.  And certainly, we expect
and are hopeful that Republicans will look seriously at whomever he
nominates and at what they — who they are and what they would bring to
the Court.

Q    And just one more on this.  Our latest poll shows that just over
three quarters of Americans, 76 percent, want the President to consider
all possible nominees, not only Black women, as he pledged on the
campaign trail.  What do you make of this?  And why do you think that a
majority of Americans want the President to take a different approach
here?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, again, what we can assure the American public of,
whether — wherever they fell on that poll, is that he will choose and
nominate someone who has impeccable credentials and is eminently
qualified to serve as a Supreme Court justice and someone who is
eminently qualified to serve in a lifetime appointment. 

He did make a promise to the country.  That’s certainly how he sees it. 
And he’s going to work hard on this choice, seeking advice and counsel
from, as I noted earlier, a range of leaders, of experts.  And that’s
something that he is already pursuing this week. 

I would note that there’s a long history here.  President Reagan
promised the country he would nominate the country’s first woman to
serve on the Court, and he did so.  Former President Trump also promised
to choose a woman just over a year ago, and there was no such complaint
from the voices on the Right who are speaking out now. 

But the President’s commitment is to deliver on the promise he made to
the country.  But he has — there’s no question in his mind that there is
a wealth of qualified, talented Black women to choose from in this — to
nominate.

Go ahead.

Q    Can you talk a little more about the size of the pool of candidates
that the President will be considering?  We’ve heard a lot about a few
names that are currently federal judges the President had appointed, but
then we’ve seen some expanding lists.  Could you quantify that to any
degree? 

And are all of these women being actively considered for the vacancy, or
might it also include future federal positions that the President would
also have the power to appoint?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, what I can — this may be unsatisfying, I will just
preface for you, Kelly, which I hate to do — but, you know, as somebody
who appreciates the solemn importance of the responsibility he has, he’s
of course been reviewing a number of potential candidates.  That is a
list that is bigger than “a few” in the number of bios that he has been
looking for — looking at and that have been prepared for him by his team
in order to be prepared if a vacancy occurred. 

We don’t think, and he — it is important to him to preserve the details
of the process.  And his intention is to, as you know, put forward a
nominee next month.  So this is not a month — many-months-long process. 
He is very focused on it and committed to it, but we’re not going to get
into details of names, if we can avoid it, or details of numbers at this
point in time.

Q    Often, for this kind of process, there is a team appointed to work
short term —

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    — inside the White House to be sort of a guide for that nominee. 
The term of art in Washington is “sherpa.” 

MS. PSAKI:  Sherpa.

Q    Have you made any progress on that?

MS. PSAKI:  We’ve been making progress and expect we’ll have more to
announce for all of you hopefully soon.

Q    And last question.  Do you think bipartisanship — the chance to get
Republican votes — would be a factor that would weigh heavily on the
President among those he would consider?

MS. PSAKI:  I think the President is going to select a woman — a Black
woman — who is qualified, who is prepared, who has impeccable experience
to serve on the Court.  He’s going to do that based on her credentials,
of course having a discussion with her, and not through gaming out the
system. 

He believes that Democrats and Republicans should seriously and
carefully consider any qualified nominee he puts forward, as he has done
in the past himself. 

Go ahead.

Oh, sorry, I’ll come back to you, Jacqui.  I didn’t mean to —

Q    Okay.  That’s all right.

Q    Thank you.  Members of the economic team have been sort of
frontrunning the jobs number on Friday, saying that the figures would be
wonky because of the course of all the Omicron cases we had during the
sample period.  I’m wondering what your expectation or the White House’s
expectation for this report is.  And in particular, you’ve had a lot of
revisions of these reports in recent months.  Do you think it’s time to
overhaul how the Department of Labor does this survey — the methodology
and that kind of thing?

MS. PSAKI:  I have no prediction or call for any changes to how the
process is run.  But what I can tell you is we’re looking in preparation
for the Friday jobs numbers.  We’ll get the monthly jobs report, of
course, for January on Friday.

The way the jobs numbers are calculated is: Every month is — there are —
is calculated — every month — it’s a little complicated.  But there are
some simple things here to understand that most people don’t realize: If
a worker was out sick during the week the survey was taken — because
it’s — the data is taken over a week, and that is ba- — that is what the
monthly jobs numbers is based on — and did not receive paid leave, they
are counted as having lost their job. 

Now, that is an inaccurate depiction — and this is why I think you’re
asking the second question — of whether or not they were unemployed, but
that’s how it’s calculated. 

Because Omicron was so highly transmissible, nearly 9 million people
called out sick in early January when the jobs data was being
collected.  So, during that same period of time, in the week the survey
was taken, the week of January 12th, was at the height of the Omicron
spike. 

So we just wanted to kind of prepare, you know, people to understand how
the data is taken, what they’re looking at, and what it is an assessment
of.  And as a result, the month’s jobs report may show job losses in
large part because workers were out sick from Omicron at the point when
it was peaking during the period when — the week where the data was
taken.

Q    Okay.  May I follow up on Zeke’s question —

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.

Q    — in regards to the President’s distancing at events?  Is it fair
for us to interpret that this is a precaution being taken, given the
caseloads we’re seeing — in particular in, you know, D.C. but other
places?  Is he taking more steps to not sit within six feet, for
instance, of people that he had been previously?

MS. PSAKI:  It’s not a new precaution.  We have had a process, and it
may look different when people are sitting down — right? — because we
don’t do as many events with people seated versus standing.  But when
somebody has their mask off, we make a special effort, because they’re
speaking, to ensure that that spacing is adequate.

Q    And this applies to the President and the Vice President?  For
instance, other people spoke today but were shoulder to shoulder.  So
we’re just wondering if there’s a particular rule for the VP and
President.

MS. PSAKI:  I know that’s a precaution we try to take around them.  I
can certainly see if there’s more specifics of additional speakers.

Q    And, finally, can you give us any update on the Build Back Better
negotiations?  Is that a fair word for them?  Is that ongoing?  Can you
say whether the President has spoken recently with Senator Manchin or
Senator Sinema?

MS. PSAKI:  I’m not going to give any details on any conversations he’s
had, per our policy of trying to keep those conversations private.  I
will say that there are — is still a great deal of interest; passion, I
might say; and advocacy on the Hill for moving forward with a Build Back
Better agenda, because there’s a recognition and understanding that it’s
long overdue for Congress to take steps to lower costs for childcare,
lower costs for eldercare, negotiate the price of prescription drugs,
and ask higher-income companies and Americans to pay more.  Those are
all also widely popular among the public. 

So, right now, the point we’re at is there’s a lot of discussion among
members, their staffs, committees — we’re engaged in those as well —
about what big chunk — just to keep using the phrase — we can agree on
moving forward. 

And, of course, that would require 50 votes, but those conversations are
always ongoing.

Q    Thank you.

MS. PSAKI:  Oh, go ahead, Jacqui.

Q    Thank you, Jen.  Real quick on crime first.

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.

Q    I wanted to ask about: There was an appearance — your appearance on
“Pod Save America.”  There was a discussion of Fox’s crime coverage. 
And one line has prompted some criticism from people.  It was,
“‘Soft-on-crime consequences.’  What <s>even is that</s> \[does that
mean\]?”  Were you speaking in your personal opinion?  Or is that at all
a reflection of the priorities of this administration?  Because the
criticism is that it would reflect that crime is not a priority of this
administration. 

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I encourage anyone to listen to the full context of
the interview and the conversation.  What I was speaking to was a chyron
on Fox News — since you raised it — which suggested this administration
is soft on crime with no basis, given we have had many conversations and
back-and-forths with you and your colleagues about the prioritization of
the President to ensure that we are working as close partners with
leaders, whether it is Mayor Adams, who he’s going to spend the day with
on Thursday, or others in the country.

And the facts speak for themselves.  This is what I was talking about in
the interview, for the full context.  In the American Rescue Plan, there
was additional funding to support local COPS programs, something that
every single Republican voted against.  I said in that interview that I
know they don’t like it when we call that out.  I’m going to keep
calling that out because that’s a fact. 

Also, President Biden has proposed a significant increase in funding for
local COPS programs in his budget — more than the prior President. 
That’s a fact. 

So if those facts are uncomfortable, I’m sorry for people who feel they
need to be critical, but the President has been a longtime advocate of
addressing crime.  He’s never been for defunding the police. 

Our Department of Justice has increased funding, has put in place
support for strike forces. 

And the other fact that is never talked about in these Fox packages —
maybe even this one — is the fact that gun crime is a major driver of
crime across the country — also a fact.

So, those are pieces, I think, in that moment I was speaking to.  And,
again, we’re about the facts here, and addressing crime is something
that is a root of the President’s agenda.

Q    Thank you.  I appreciate that. 

And then, I wanted to move on to the DOJ.  There is a letter from Tom
Cotton today, threatening to block the President’s DOJ nominees over the
Department of Justice allegedly denying four deputy U.S. Marshals legal
defense in lawsuits stemming from the Portland riots. 

Is the White House aware of this?  And can you give us any explanation
for why that would be happening? 

MS. PSAKI:  I’m not aware of the specifics of it, Jacqui.  I’m happy to
check with our Counsel’s Office, I assume, and see if there’s something
more specific we can get back to you. 

Q    Thank you.  And then on — there’s been this leaked video of Border
Patrol agents expressing frustration over some of the policies of this
administration.  I know that we talked last week about flights, and
we’ve heard the explanation for this procedure that they were frustrated
over, but this video seems to show that morale is, you know, in a tough
place, that these agents are frustrated who are having to carry out
these policies.

Is anything being done to improve morale?  Is there going to be any sort
of outreach from the administration to Border Patrol, given that we’re
seeing more of this come to the surface? 

MS. PSAKI:  I haven’t watched in detail the video.  I will note that — I
think it was the migrant flights video.  Is that the one that was — or
it’s a different video?

Q    It’s a different video.

MS. PSAKI:  Okay.  I didn’t want to speak to the wrong thing. 

Of course, the role that Border Patrol agents play in ensuring security
and safety at our borders is something that there’s great value for in
this administration.  I would point you to the Department of Homeland
Security, who oversees, of course, the Border Patrol agents, and can see
if there’s anything — any more specific programs that are underway. 

Go ahead, Jeff.  And then Jeff.

Q    Thanks.  A follow-up to Kelly’s question about trying to quantify
the pool of potential Supreme Court nominees. 

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Yeah.

Q    A White House official told us late Friday that the reporting in
some outlets that there were three primary contenders — that that was
incorrect.  I wonder then: For our reporting, would it be more accurate
to say “a dozen,” “dozens,” plural, women under consideration?

MS. PSAKI:  I understand your efforts.  I appreciate them.  I value
them.  But I can tell you that the President feels very strongly about
ensuring we’re protecting the process. 

What I was getting at with Kelly a little bit, but let me be a little
more clear, is that the number of bios and information that the
President has been reviewing was greater than the three.

Q    Okay.  On voting rights, what’s the President’s view on the early
bipartisan talks around rewriting, reforming the Electoral Count Act? 
It doesn’t go nearly as far as he’d wanted on voting rights, but there
is perhaps new urgency, given the former President’s comments at that
rally and in the statement where he appeared to admit to this scheme to
overturn the election results in 2020. 

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Well, let me speak to that first, and then I’ll come
around to the Electoral Count Act.

So, in terms of the former President, his actions represented a unique
and existential threat to our democracy, as the President has said many
times.  But, you know, his remarks this weekend, he defended the actions
of his supporters who stormed the Capitol and brutally attacked the law
enforcement officers protecting it. 

I think it’s important to shout that out and call that out.  He even
attacked his own Vice President for not, in his words, having
“overturned the election.”  And it’s just a reminder of how unfit he is
for office.  And it’s telling that even some of his closest allies have
rejected those remarks as inappropriate in the days since.

As it relates to the Electoral Count Act: As you noted, Jeff, in your
question, I mean, it is not a replacement.  And I think why we keep
saying that is because we don’t want anyone to suggest, who supports it,
that it’s a replacement for the John Lewis Voting Rights Act or other
voting rights legislation that has important components of it that would
provide a basic baseline and important protections for people across the
country who are trying to exercise their fundamental right.

We’ve been open to and a part of conversations about the Electoral Count
Act.  We’ve never been opposed to it.  We just don’t want it to be a
replacement for it.

Q    And lastly, at least six HBCUs received bomb threats today. 

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    The FBI says it’s aware of these threats and it’s coordinated with
the local law enforcement.  Has the President been briefed?  And do you
have anything to say about it from the podium? 

MS. PSAKI:  I will say that these are certainly disturbing.  And the
White House is in touch with the interagency partners, including federal
law enforcement leadership, on this. 

We’re relieved to hear that Howard and Bethune-Cookman Universities have
been given the all-clear, and we’ll continue to monitor these reports. 
The President is aware.  I don’t believe he’s received a formal
briefing, but he is aware of these reports.  And obviously, as you
noted, law enforcement authorities would be running point.

Go ahead, Jeff.

Q    Thank you, Jen.  There was a U.N. Security Council meeting today.

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    Russia’s ambassador at that meeting said that the West’s assertion
that Russia has amassed 100,000 troops on the border has not been
confirmed.  And China, at that meeting, also said that it did not view
Russia’s troops as a threat to Ukraine.  I’m wondering about your — the
White House’s response to those two comments.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, those are also the two countries that voted against
the meeting proceeding — the only two, right? 

I would note that we have based the information we have provided to all
of you on substantive reports out there, our own assessments, our own
coordinated intelligence gathering with our partners on the ground.  So
— and those are assessments that are — as you know, Jeff — are also made
by the Europeans.

Now, again, Russia has the power — they are the aggressor here — they
have the power and ability to deescalate: to pull their troops back from
the border, to not push more troops to Belarus, to take steps to
deescalate the situation on the ground. 

But we know what we see with our own eyes.  You have heard members of
our depar- — defense team — our Secretary of Defense, as well as General
Milley — speak to this in very specific detail, as well as our U.N.
ambassador this morning. 

It is not our preference to be having these conversations.  We’d prefer
there to be de-escalatory actions by the Russians.

Q    And China?

MS. PSAKI:  And Chi- — look, I think that I can’t speak for the
motivation of the Chinese.  They can speak for that themselves. 
Obviously, we would encourage any country in the world to be part of an
effort to deescalate, to protect and respect the sovereignty of Ukraine,
and to make clear that a global value is not allowing one country to
invade and take land from another.

Q    Do you have any more details on your plan to impose sanctions on
Russia’s — on the Kremlin’s inner circle?

MS. PSAKI:  Let me see, Jeff.  I know there were some reports over that
— about that over the weekend.  That has been, as it was back in 2014 —
as I think you probably remember — a part of what we have been
considering. 

I can confirm we have developed specific sanctions packages for both
Russian elites and their family members if Russia further enga- —
invades Ukraine.  These efforts are being pursued in coordination with
allies and partners.  The individuals we’ve identified are in or near
the inner circle of the Kremlin and play a role in government
decision-making, or at a minimum complicit in the Kremlin’s
destabilizing behavior.

Many of these individuals are particularly vulnerable targets because of
their deep and financial ties with the West, meaning they would be hurt
by sanctions that are tying them to Western financial systems.

I would also note that this is just one piece of our effort to hit
Russia from all angles.  And this is — when Jake Sullivan came here
several weeks ago and talked about how this will be far above and beyond
what we were considering in 2014 — a lot of what we did in 2014 was
around individuals, right?  And we’re talking about major parts of the
financial system, but there is a package.  We have developed specific
sanctions packages for both Russian elites and their family members.

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Jen.  Zooming out a bit on Ukraine —

MS. PSAKI:  Okay.

Q    — more.  Does the President consider it as a risk the different
simultaneous things going on right now?  You’ve got North Korea upping
its missile game.  You got the — the Taiwan Straits probably has never
been more tense than it is now.  And, of course, Ukraine.  Does he
consider — fear that there’s any link between these things, not as some
kind of coordinated master plan, but that at least one of those — you
know, each place is watching the other and will take its cues, and then
maybe how Ukraine goes forward could provide a lesson to the other
challengers that he’s facing?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say, one, North Korea has been doing missile
tests — dozens of them — in prior administrations.  And obviously, we’ve
spoken to it each time that that has happened.

Our door — the door to diplomacy remains open, and we have conveyed that
clearly.  We are very careful not to combine all of these pieces into
one, because they’re all different circumstances. 

There is also — if I flip it on — flip it a little bit — I would say, a
clear value that we need to stand by, which is the belief of the United
States and our NATO partners that — and other countries, of course,
around the world — that you can’t just stand by and accept one country
trying to invade and take land from another country.   And this is also
about protecting the sovereignty of a country, and that is a value
that’s important to stand by as well.

So, as we are — as the President and other members of our national
security team are conveying that very clearly — privately and publicly —
that’s also sending a message to other countries around the world.

If you look at what President Putin’s stated objectives are — or his
spokespeople, I guess I should say — he wants to divide the West.  He
wants to divide NATO.  The opposite is happening: There’s been more than
200 engagements with NATO countries.  We are united — fiercely united
and standing up to what we see as aggressive behavior, bellicose
rhetoric, even as we’re leaving the door to diplomacy open.

Q    Thank you.  One on the Olympics, if I may.  Does the President have
a stand on this debate on whether athletes should be able to express
political, human rights, or anything non-sporting views at the
Olympics?  I know the Olympics has got some rules, but the Chinese came
out today with some pretty tough statements, warning people not to step
out of line.  What would the President’s reaction be if an American
athlete gets up on that stand and says or does something —

MS. PSAKI:  I think we spoke to this last summer and conveyed a support
for freedom of speech of individuals.

Go ahead.

Q    Just today we’ve heard Russian diplomats say they see hysteria, “PR
stunt,” “megaphone diplomacy” to describe how the U.S. has been talking
about what’s going on there.  You’ve all said diplomacy is still the
path; that there is still room for that.  And General Milley was very
strong about that.  At what point do you decide Moscow is not interested
in that and that it will have shift from the “We really want to do this”
to “Clearly, they’re not paying attention at this point”?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think what’s important to note here is: Our view is
that the door to diplomacy should always be open.  And that is what the
President, the — our Secretary of State, our Secretary of Defense have
been conveying.

I think the State Department confirmed this morning that our Secretary
of State will be talking with Foreign Minister Lavrov, I believe
tomorrow.  That would be a next step in our diplomatic efforts and
engagements here.

But I think we’ve also been very prioritized and focused on — and you
saw our U.N. ambassador do this in the — at the — at the session this
morning — calling out what we see as misinformation and propaganda, at
times, by Russian leaders and others, because it’s important for people
to know and understand what the facts are.

But regardless of what people’s public rhetoric is, it’s our view that
the door to diplomacy should always be open.  And ultimately, the
question here is about what President Putin is going to do.  So, we’re
always going to keep that door open.

Q    And back to SCOTUS, just to try one more time —

MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead.

Q    — with Judge Childs.  You had — within two hours of the event here
with Justice Breyer and the President, you had Congressman Clyburn —
obviously, a very close ally — come out and very publicly push for
Childs.  And then, as mentioned earlier, you had Senator Graham do that.

Hard to think of two opposite folks: the number-three House Democrat —
like the President, a former Judiciary Committee chair —

MS. PSAKI:  They are both from South Carolina, which may be a factor.

Q    Yeah, of course, with the state.  But when you have — when you’re
talking about the bipartisan part of it —

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    — how much weight might the President put on something like that,
where you have, again, the number-three House Democrat, you have Lindsey
Graham uniting for one person and very publicly putting the pressure on
almost immediately to, kind of, nudge him in that direction?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I can only tell you what — how the President is
approaching his role here.  And through — he is very familiar and has
lived through many confirmation processes and hearings.  He takes his
role very seriously.  And his role is to pick the most eminently
qualified, credentialed Black woman to serve as the Supreme Court — as a
Supreme Court justice, a lifetime appointment.

It is certainly encouraging.  We’ve seen the comments, of course, of
Senator Graham and Congressman Clyburn.  We always welcome agreement on
anything in this town.  But the President’s focus is not on gaming out
the process.  It’s on picking the right candidate.

Go ahead, in the back.

Q    So, the President today — two topics.  It’s on inflation, the first
one.  The President told governors today, quote, “We’ve sent you a whole
hell of a lot of money.  And we’re going to send you more.”  The Fed
Chairman last week, though, said that a drop in fiscal spending this
year will help ease inflation.  So, again, what’s the level of concern
for the President that more spending would contribute to inflation?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, there is still going to be a massive drop this year
because of the end of a number of programs.  So that doesn’t — that
doesn’t change what the President conveyed.

I don’t — I didn’t see the totality of it, so I don’t know what the full
context of it.  There are still, of course, programs and requests that
these governors have, whether it is help on COVID or help with specific
small businesses.  And there is still some targeted assistance that
leaders still want, they need, and we are delivering from the federal
government. 

But that doesn’t change — if you look at the overarching graph of, like,
how much federal assistance is going, that it’s a natural drop because
of the end of a lot of programs.

Q    So on the Federal Reserve nominees: The Federal Reserve maintains
its independence.  One of the picks, Sarah Bloom Raskin, is the wife of
Representative Jamie Raskin, as you know.  And it’s been a while since
I’ve gotten to see you, so I get to ask about Federal Reserve now.  You
know, he was an impeachment manager in the impeachment trial of a
Republican president, so does the President believe she can keep that
independence from the Fed?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would also just — I think she can stand on her own
qualifications, not just because she’s a woman, but because she’s done a
lot in her career.  She has been said by many to be the most qualified
person to be nominated to this role, which I think is probably more
important than who she’s married to, I would argue. 

She brings unprecedented experience to this role and the support of
economic experts across the spectrum, including from the top economic
advisor to former President Bush.  She believes, and she has said she
believes, firmly in the independent role of the Federal Reserve and will
work in concert with Chair Powell and her colleagues to identify and
mitigate a range of risks.

She is also, you know, somebody who, again, as I mentioned, has a wealth
of experience that she would be leaning into in this role.

Q    But the federal — the U.S. Chamber of Commerce sent a letter to
committee members there, calling into question her activism related to
regulations on where banks could lend or should be able to limit lending
into certain industries, specifically coal and oil.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, let me note what a couple of others have said.  The
community banker and former Fed Governor, Betsy Duke: “The
characterization of Sarah Bloom Raskin as someone who will use the
powers of the Fed for political purposes is simply false.  I saw every
day \[her\] commitment to the Fed’s dual mandate.”

Former Bush CEA chair, Glenn Hubbard: “\[Raskin\] brings a wealth of
experience to a Fed role.

Former Independent Community Bankers of America President and CEO, Cam
Fine: “An outstanding group of nominees.  I hope the Senate will confirm
them as soon as possible.” 

And I think, just like any nominee, she should be judged by her
qualifications.  She will have a hearing coming up where I’m sure she
will answer a range of questions.  But I think her — her background, her
credentials, her experience is unquestionable in terms of its
preparedness for this role.

Q    So her husband being an impeachment manager had nothing to do with
it?  Just to put (inaudible).

MS. PSAKI:  Again, I would say that her experience and her impeccable
credentials were the determinant in her being nominated for this role. 
And I — I think it’s a little questionable for anyone to raise
otherwise.

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Jen.  The administration is committed to the release of
U.S. citizens held in Iran.  Can you update us if there’s anything new,
and whether the White House has asked the Qatari Foreign Minister to
mediate since he was recently in Tehran?  And I have another question.

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Well, I would say: Obviously, there’s a range of
topics, as I think we briefed out to you — and we can talk about — more
about that if you would like — that will be discussed during the meeting
this afternoon. 

There’s no special coordination between the United States and Qatar on
this particular visit about Iran, but, of course, there are a range of
topics including the nuclear negotiations that could be a part of the
discussion.

Q    So nothing on the release of the hostages?  Everything that was
reported is not correct?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say, again, I don’t have anything more to
offer to you other than to say that they could talk about the Iran
nuclear negotiations, but there’s no special coordination planned for
this trip.

Q    Also, the Houthis has attacked Abu Dhabi yesterday while the
Israeli president was meeting.  You keep saying that you want to protect
your allies in the Gulf, but practically, how can you stop them from
escalating, as we have seen in the last few weeks?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I expect my colleague, John Kirby, at the Pentagon may
have more to say on this.  But I can tell you that — as to your question
about your — the report: U.S. military personnel responded to an inbound
missile threat on the UAE. This involved the employment of Patriot
interceptors to –coincident to efforts by the armed forces of the UAE.

I would say we are working quite closely with them.  Again, my colleague
will have more to speak to, but we are very focused on working with them
and defending against all threats to their peoples and territories.

Go ahead, Shelby. 

Q    Thanks.  I have two.  Nikki Haley and Senator Risch wrote an open
letter to U.S. Olympic athletes this morning, warning of a high-risk and
potentially (inaudible) political environment.  Is President Biden at
all concerned for the safety of American athletes competing?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say, first, that we are very focused on the
safety of American athletes.  And as you know, unrelated — all related,
I guess — we made a decision not to send a delegation.  It was not
related to that; it was related to our concerns about PRC’s ongoing
genocide and crimes against humanity in Xinjiang and other human rights
abuses.  I just wanted to note that for the record.

But in terms of athletes, we do everything possible to work in
coordination with the U.S. Olympic Committee.  We’re providing consular
and security services to our athletes, coaches, trainers, and staff, as
we do for all U.S. citizens overseas.

Additionally, we expect the PRC to ensure the safety and wellbeing of
our athletes. 

They have our full support.  We are 100 percent behind them.  We’ve also
provided the U.S. Olympic & Paralympic Committee and corporate sponsors
with briefings as well.  And we will continue to work in lockstep with
them.

Q    And then, going back to crime, I know you noted the President is,
you know, not for defunding the police.  He has initiatives on combating
crime, but we are seeing crime surge in major cities.  And the
President’s poll numbers on the topic — you know, there was a — because
he had an approval rating on crime that was at 36 percent in one
December poll.  Does that indicate to the White House at all that
Americans feel Democrats are out of touch when it comes to safety or
criminal justice?  And, you know, what’s the administration’s takeaway
to these numbers and the rise in crime?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think we all agree or should agree that violent
crime is a serious problem.  We actually saw a record jump in murders in
2020 under the former president, and there hasn’t been new FBI
nationwide data that has been released to date.  There has been city —
some city data, of course, which is important to focus on and talk
about. 

Our view is that instead of turning this into a political football, we
need to be focused from the beginning of the President’s time — all of
his time in office on reducing crime and keeping our communities safe. 

And that’s why he’s been a longtime advocate for more accountable
community policing.  That’s why he has supported and advocated for
additional funding for proven community programs to reduce crime, why
he’s working to crack down on rogue gun dealers who sell firearms to
criminals, and why he has taken executive action to crack down on ghost
guns. 

So his objective is to work with Democrats, Republicans, mayors, local
leaders to work to address what we’ve seen as increases in crime in some
areas.  But I would just note that, nationwide, there has been increases
in crime over the past few years. 

Go ahead.  Oh, go ahead.  I’m sorry.  Go ahead.

Q    Jen, the governors were just out at the stakes —

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah. 

Q    — just a minute ago, after meeting with the President.  They said
their biggest message to the President and the administration is they
want flexibility in how they spend these monies.  What can the
administration do, or what are —

MS. PSAKI:  Which money?  Just for clarification.

Q    Infrastructure and also COVID relief bills.  They want more
flexibility on how they can spend that.

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Well, I would say, first, on infrastructure: We just
published this massive booklet with the intention of providing a bunch
of guidance to governors, state and local electeds, communities about
how they can apply for funding. 

It goes through different grant programs, so different programs work
differently.  Some of it, as I think we’ve noted in the past, has been
against some of the most structurally challenged bridges, for example,
which will take some time.  But there are just different ranges of
programs that come from different agencies.  Obviously, if there are
lead pipes in their state or communities or schools, those are things
we’re going to replace; that’s pretty clear. 

But there is a lot of, hopefully, comprehensive information in this
lengthy booklet about how — or book — it’s a big book — about how to
apply for grants, a follow-up for how to ask questions as they come up
as needed. 

In terms of COVID relief funds, I mean, we have — I’d really have to dig
into more specifics of what they’re looking for.  There have been areas
of some flexibility in terms of how funding has been spent for schools
or how funding has been spent for local community programs throughout
the course of time, like through the American Rescue Plan and others. 
So I’d have to look at the greater context of what their exact issue is.

Q    Okay.  And a final question: What is the federal government going
to do to supply — are any supplies going to the Northeast states that
just got hit by the blizzard?

MS. PSAKI:  By the blizzard?  So, we work very closely with state, local
leaders to respond to natural disasters, of course including storms. 
Typically those requests need to come first from governors in the
states.  I can check with FEMA and see if there’s any specific request
that has come in or what needs that have — that have arisen in the days
since the storm.  I mean, “days” — it’s not been that many days, but you
get what I’m saying.  We’ll see if we can get more details to you after
the briefing.

Go ahead.

Q    On infrastructure, on the topic of this guidebook — I actually just
did a report in the state I cover, of California.

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    And there were a ton of questions about just the state portion, the
formula fund portion —

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    — that the state already knows is going to get committed.  So many
questions about how that’s supposed to go out. 

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah. 

  
     Q    How does the White House plan just sort of oversee all of that
distribution and sort of make sure that the money is having its intended
effect when it gets out the door?

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  You mean to avoid waste, fraud, and abuse?  Or to —

Q    Not just waste, fraud, and abuse, but, you know,

given that states will have a lot of discretion on how these funds are
spent, just in terms of the ultimate outcome being — so what was
intended.

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Through very close consultation.  I mean, you saw the
President have a meeting with his infrastructure task force on the day
of his one-year anniversary.  That shows how important the
implementation of this bill is to the President.

The objective — what we were trying to do with the publication of this
book is to provide clear criteria as a baseline, obviously to build
questions off of and to have follow-ups. 

But I think, from here, what the President always says when I’m in
meetings with him, with Mitch Landrieu, is: A big part of our job is,
you know, spending hours a day calling mayors, calling governors, seeing
what local — what questions come from local electeds.  That’s the role
he played as Vice President, and that’s what his expectation is. 

So this big book is a base that will hopefully help answer a range of
questions.  But different programs are being implemented by different
agencies, even as they’re being coordinated by here.  So it really
depends on the program implementation to where those questions should be
directed.

Q    And in terms of the American people, how do you intend to ensure
that the average American ends up knowing what the impact of those bills
are?  Are you guys going to do signage the way we’ve sort of seen in the
past with many big initiatives?

MS. PSAKI:  I think there will be some branding around that the
infrastructure implementation that the American people should be able to
see.

Q    And, lastly — you know, it’s still up in the air, but in
California, there’s sort of a push to get a single-payer health plan
across the state.  Is that something that you think the federal
government could end up being able to interface with and something that,
you know, if California were to proceed, you guys would welcome?

MS. PSAKI:  In terms of interface in what way?

Q    You know, that if the state were to implement the sort of
single-payer plan, that would work with everything else you guys have in
the healthcare ecosystem.

MS. PSAKI:  We would, of course, work to coordinate with any state, but
I don’t have any more details at this point in time.  We’ll wait to see
what they do. 

Thanks, everyone.

1:57 P.M. EST
