---
category: press-briefings
date: '2022-01-18'
modified_time: 2022-01-25 11:13:17-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/01/18/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-and-infrastructure-implementation-coordinator-mitch-landrieu-january-18-2022/
published_time: 2022-01-18 22:30:00-05:00
title: Press Briefing by Press Secretary Jen Psaki and Infrastructure Implementation
  Coordinator Mitch Landrieu, January 18, 2022
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

12:05 P.M. EST

MS. PSAKI:  Hello, everyone.  
  
Q    Hello.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Take your time.  We’re good.  Okay, good afternoon. 
(Removes facemask.)  Oh, masks are a little difficult with earrings, I’m
learning right now.  Okay.  Well, okay.  (Laughs.)  
  
Happy day 364 of this administration.  I’m excited to welcome the
President’s Infrastructure Implementation Coordinator, Mitch Landrieu,
to the briefing room.  
  
As you all know, Mitch served as the 61st Mayor of New Orleans.  Under
his leadership, New Orleans is widely recognized as one of the nation’s
greatest comeback stories, recovering from Hurricane Katrina and the BP
oil spill.  
  
Mitch served as president of the U.S. Conference of Mayors, was named
“Public Official of the Year” in 2015, and was voted “America’s Top
Turnaround Mayor” in a survey of mayors in 2016.  
  
Prior to serving as mayor, he served two terms as Lieutenant Governor of
Louisiana and in the Louisiana House of Representatives for 16 years.  
  
As the President’s Infrastructure Coordinator, Mitch oversees the
largest long-term investment in America’s infrastructure and
competitiveness in nearly a century.  
  
I wanted to have him come speak with all of you following our
announcement on Friday of more than $27 billion from the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law to fix an estimated 15,000 bridges across the country
ahead of the President’s meeting later this week with the Infrastructure
Implementation Task Force, which he co-chairs.  
  
With that, I will turn it over.  He’s agreed to take a few questions
before he has to go build some more bridges.  (Laughter.)  I worked on
that all day.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
MR. LANDRIEU:  Good morning, everybody.  
  
Q    Good morning.  
  
MR. LANDRIEU:  So, this is what this room looks like.  (Laughter.)  I’ve
wondered for a while.  It’s nice to see.  Happy New Year to you.  
  
My name is Mitch.  The President asked me to help him build a better
America.  I said, “Yes.”  I hope the people of America agree too,
because it’s going to take all of us to get this done.  
  
When President Biden came into office just one year ago, he pledged to
use the power of the presidency to help everyday Americans, to bring
people together, and to rebuild our country and economy.   
  
For decades, we just talked about “Infrastructure Week.”  But President
Biden reached across the aisle and, in a bipartisan way, actually got it
done.  Promises made, promises kept.  
  
Let me tell you, every week now is going to be “Infrastructure Week,”
except the difference is we’re actually going to build stuff.  
  
With the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, President Biden is delivering
the largest investment in infrastructure in a generation.  That means
“in most of our lives.”  
  
A little more than 60 days ago, our team hit the ground running to
deliver results.  We’ve now convened the task force made up of Cabinet
members a total of six times.  This Thursday will be our seventh, and
the President will be with us.  
  
We’re discussing hard questions, seeking to flesh out the tough stuff
first.  I’m a firm believer in running to the fire, not away from it.  
  
We’re breaking down silos across agencies — on guidelines, on
permitting, on hiring.     
  
This is “one team, one fight” mission.  And we are going to operate in
that way.  
  
We also need good partners.  The fact of the matter is that most of the
building will actually be done by states, by the cities, by the
counties, by the Tribal leaders.  That’s why our team, and me
personally, have been reaching out — extensive outreach to state and
local officials.   
  
At this point, we have reached out to all 50 governors and their key
staff, I have spoken to hundreds of local officials, and we have gotten
a fantastic response from them all.   
  
As you know by now, we have asked states to appoint infrastructure
coordinators, which we think will help foster cross-agency collaboration
and make it easier for them to get problems solved very quickly.   
  
Already, states like Delaware and New Mexico have appointed
coordinators.  And states like Arkansas and Michigan are setting up
interagency task forces.    
  
Our team is here to be problem-solvers, to deliver, to build the team,
and to help tell the story.  Ultimately, we want to help people take
advantage of this great opportunity to build a better America.  
  
Now, as a country, we haven’t spent this amount of money on
infrastructure in generations.  So, we’re talking about how to do it
with accountability and transparency — on time, on task, on budget,
spending taxpayer dollars both wisely and well.    
  
Earlier today, I convened the inspectors general of federal agencies
involved in implementation of the law, letting them know we want to do
this in a partnership just like the President did when he was the Vice
President and he led the Recovery Act process — as the President has
expected from his team since day one, including the implementation of
ARP.  
  
As the President has made clear, results and accountability go hand in
hand.  To deliver results now and in the years to come, the federal
government must undertake this work in a manner that is deserving of the
public’s trust.  So, we’re going to lean forward.  Stewardship of public
dollars is a high priority.  
  
But I want to level set: This infrastructure work in general is not a
one-time economic stimulus.  It is not a race to see how many ribbons we
can cut before the end of the year.   
  
Doing this is going to require balance.  It’s going to require order.
 We are definitely going to go fast, but we are not going to hurry and
we are going to get it right.  
  
On the nuts and bolts, we’re on the right track.  As the President laid
out last week, we’ve made real progress — you’ve seen the announcements
— rebuilding roads, ports, and airports.  We’re making progress on
delivering high-speed Internet to every American.  We’re making progress
on ensuring water systems deliver clean water by replacing lead
pipes.     
  
And of course, on Friday, the President rolled out the massive $27
billion allocation to states to fix over 15,000 bridges — the largest
bridge program in American history.   
  
You see, bridges connect us.  They connect people, the movement of
goods.  They connect communities.  They connect the country.  With this
investment, President Biden is creating a bridge to the future, a
pathway to win — a pathway for all of us to win.   
  
And today, we have another great announcement.  The Department of the
Interior is announcing a new interagency program for cleaning up
orphaned wells, a key initiative of the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law. 
The law includes $4.7 billion to clean up orphaned well sites —
plugging, remediation, and restoration activities.   
  
So, what does this mean for the people of America?  
  
Millions of us — millions — live within a mile of hundreds of thousands
of orphaned and abandoned wells that leak and spew.  These wells
jeopardize public health and safety by contaminating groundwater;
seeping toxic cheminals \[sic\] — chemicals; emitting harmful
pollutants, including methane.   
  
This well-capping program also creates jobs and will revitalize rural
economies in places where people are directly affected by a
transitioning economy.  
  
And like so many of the issues we face, cleaning it up will take an
all-of-government approach.   
  
Interior Secretary Deb Haaland is leading this effort, in close
partnership with the Department of Agriculture, EPA, and the Department
of Energy.   And already, 26 states have asked for funding to take
advantage of this opportunity to clean up this mess.    
  
Secretary Haaland told me the other day a story about a school she
visited where children had tissues in their nostrils due to constant
nosebleeds — a result of contamination.  Can you imagine having our
children have to learn in this kind of environment?  It has gone on for
quite a long time.   
  
That’s why we’re doing this: real results where people live and where it
really matters, cleaning up communities, fighting climate change,
creating new and better jobs, and building a bridge to a future
economy.  It’s a really consequential effort.   
  
And later this week, there will be more announcements to come.  
  
In closing, let me just say the President has been clear in his charge
to me: Build a better America without unnecessary bureaucracy and delay
while, at the same time, doing what is difficult for the sake of what is
right.  
  
And so “better,” as we have said many times, means creating good
middle-class jobs, investing in American manufacturing and building
capacity right here at home, supporting disadvantaged and underserved
communities so that no one and no community is left behind, advancing
climate resilience and sustainability so that we can be better prepared
and ready for whatever is coming our way.   
  
All of this will make us stronger and better, reduce costs for
middle-class families, and help us compete.  This is what building a
better America looks like for all of us.  
  
Thank you.   
  
Jen, back to you.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  All right.  
  
Jeff, go ahead.  
  
Q    Mr. Mayor, thank you very much.  I was wondering if you could tell
us what the response from some states in your old neck of the woods has
been.  We’ve seen many federal programs — Obamacare, one example; other
things — some red state governors have been resistant.   
  
Are you seeing a different kind of response on things like
infrastructure, which — the programs of which are popular, but the
administration isn’t necessarily?  
  
And just give us a timeframe of when you think some of these ribbon
cuttings — I know that’s not the metric — but when will they be
happening?  Anything this year?  
  
MR. LANDRIEU:  Yeah, Jeff, thank you so much for that.  A very wise
person said, you know, “Even if they vote no, they want the dough.” 
(Laughter.)  And that — (laughs) — that’s absolutely true, especially on
infrastructure.   
  
As I said, I have personally spoke to over 40 governors — 3, their
chiefs of staff.  The others we have been contacted through staff.  I’ve
talked to a number of Republican governors — all of whom, in the reddest
of red states, were very welcoming.  They were very appreciative that
the President had asked to call.  
  
We clearly acknowledged with each other that we may have differences of
opinion on other issues.  But on building roads and bridges and airs- —
and airports and clean water and broadband — you know, 75 percent, 80
percent of the people of America want these things to happen.  And the
governors have committed to work with us to actually get it done.   
  
You mentioned that in my neck of the woods — I’m from the state of
Louisiana, as you know — we have gotten beaten to death by Katrina,
Rita, Ike, Gustav; the national recession; the BP oil spill; and a
bucketload of other stuff.  We always wonder when the locusts are
coming.  
  
And we have had interaction, as I was Lieutenant Governor, with a
Republican governor who I served with and a Democratic governor.  In
both of those instances, bipartisanship really is at the forefront of
these initiatives.  There are going to be some differences, but at the
end of the day, there really is common ground.  And I feel very good
about the willingness to lean forward and to do the things that all of
our constituents need, irrespective of what party that they’re in.   
  
In terms of turning dirt quickly, as I said to you — to level set with
everybody in this room — because you will ask me about this from time to
time, “Can you hurry up?  When is the money going to get to the ground? 
When are the first ribbon cuttings?” — first of all, this is very
different from the American recovery program.  This is a long-term
investment in rebuilding America better.   
  
And so, there are a lot of these programs that are actually new; many of
them are not.  This happens in two ways.  Some of this is through
formula funding that has been set.  Every governor has received an
indication of what the states are going to receive for the next five
years.  And that’s across whoever is sitting in the governor’s chair so
they can start planning today and actually start breaking ground as soon
as they’re ready to do that.  
  
The other part of this bill is competitive grants.  Some of those are
going to take a little bit of time to set up.  My expectation is there’s
some projects that you’ll see people turning dirt on in, definitely, the
spring or the fall.  Which ones they are, I can’t actually point to you
right now, but there’s no reason why that shouldn’t happen, especially
if some of the projects have been in the line for some period of time.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Mary.  
  
Q    To that point, you know, the President promised  
shovel-ready projects.  The administration hasn’t yet been able to
identify which of those projects might be getting underway soon.  When
will we get a better sense of what projects are coming?  
  
MR. LANDRIEU:  I can’t give you an exact date.  But as I said to you,
with the announcements that have happened in the first 60 days — and you
have a list of what those announcements are, so I don’t need to repeat
them — but you remember the investments that we made in ports and the
investment that we just made in bridges and the ones that we sent out —
the ones that Michael Regan  sent out on clean water and clean air.   
  
The governors now have this money.  On top of that, some of this money
is fungible from the American recovery plan as well.  So as soon as the
governors and legislatures decide where this money is going to go — and
they do it with appropriate attention to equity, climate, using American
products, and other things of that nature — those projects shouldn’t
take long.  However, it takes a long time to build a bridge.  You know,
you don’t build a bridge in a day.   
  
Now, sometimes people in this town know that you can tear down things a
lot quicker than you can build them, and they work hard to do that.  In
this instance, we’re going to take time and do it right, but we’re going
to do it as quickly as we possibly can.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Joey.  
  
Q    Yeah.  Thanks, Mayor.  I’m curious about the $66 billion for
Amtrak.  What is the process looking like in terms of spending those
funds?  Again, on the timeline, when do you think that that — those
dollars will get out?   
  
And is it going to be — in terms of figuring out which projects, I know
they have, like, you know, planning that Amtrak does, and a lot of it is
focused on that Northeast Corridor that travels up the Northeast coast. 
You know, is that going to be a process that Amtrak itself figures out
what they’re going to spend?  Or is there going to be input also from
the administration, the White House?  How does that kind of work?  
  
MR. LANDRIEU:  Well, first of all, we’re going to all figure it out
together.  
  
Q    Yeah.  
  
MR. LANDRIEU:  You can count on that.  Secondly, just to make you aware
of the scope of this project: It’s $1.2 trillion; there are 14 agencies,
plus some, that have some level of involvement.  In many of these plans
and programs, it takes three or four agencies to coordinate.   And then
there are some independent agencies, and Amtrak is one of those.  As you
notice, they have $66 billion to do a really, really big job.   
  
And, of course, you won’t be surprised to know the President has a
special interest in trains, and he’ll — will talk to you about it for a
very, very long time.  But he knows more about it than many engineers in
an unbelievable way.   
  
We’ve started those conversations with Amtrak.  You have rightly noted
that the Northeastern Corridor is the one that needs immediate
attention.  The President, however, has also indicated that he’s really
interested in trying to make sure that we look at where the connections
are that connect moving people that’s cheaper, faster, and is also
climate-<s>frenzy</s> \[friendly\].  
  
So, we’re in the process of — well, of kind of putting that together. 
And we’ll have a plan in the not-too-distant future.   
  
Q    Is that something that it could be started this year or more likely
something —  
  
MR. LANDRIEU:  I think a lot — again, I don’t want to speak specifically
for Amtrak; it’s an independent agency — there are many things that can
be started right now.  And as I have said to you, in some of these
models that we have, in some formulas, that money has actually already
been indicated and sent out of the door.  
  
So that’s just going to be a matter of administrative work that we have
to do.  
  
Q    Thanks.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Nancy, this is going to have to be the last one.  Go
ahead.  
  
MR. LANDRIEU:  Hey, Nancy.  
  
Q    Thanks, Mitch.  Based on what you’ve seen so far, how many state
governments have the capacity already to evaluate this huge number of
projects all at once and determine which ones are most worthy of the
funding?  Because as we saw, for example, with the American Rescue Plan,
you might be very organized here  at the federal level, but if they
don’t have the staffing and the know-how and the capacity at the state
level, there’ll be bottlenecks.  
  
MR. LANDRIEU:  Correct.  That is a fantastic question, and thank you for
asking this.   
  
As you heard me say throughout this talk, it’s all going to be about
balance: How do you go fast and how do you get it right?  How do you
really try to do the right thing but at the same time not go too slow? 
How do you deal with actually getting money to the ground quickly and
making sure that people have the capacity to use it?  
  
Let me say this again to all of us who are younger than 80 years old:
You have not seen this in our lifetime.  And when we have tried to do
this in the past, because we haven’t spent a lot of time building up
what I call “downline logistics” — you’ll hear me say this many, many
times — sometimes up here in Washington, they want to create a cow, and
when it gets down to the ground, it looks like a pig.  
  
And the point is to make sure that what we’re trying to do down here
gets down to the ground with the people from the ground up understanding
it, knowing it, analyzing, and working in partnership with them.  
  
One of the things that should be obvious to anybody in this country is
that we have a capacity problem on the ground.  Notwithstanding the
current circumstance that we’re in, even if the world were perfect, you
have to say to yourself: Are we ready to build this much stuff this
fast?  
  
And the answer is: If you triage it appropriately; if you plan
appropriately; if you run to the fire and one of the fires is, “Do we
have enough people, do we have enough materials, and if we don’t, how do
we create workforce training programs, how do we build capacity, how do
we manufacture products here?”; and you understand that this is a 5- to
10-year cycle, you can actually move into it if you do it intentionally
and with thought.  
  
So, to answer your very specific question: There are some states that
have been in this business for quite a long time and have moved big
stuff.  And they’re obviously more prepared than others.   
  
One of the great challenges and one of the great missions the President
gave us bec- — and it falls under the umbrella of equity and climate:
What about these small Indigenous communities that don’t have the
capacity to apply for a grant?  What happens if they get a grant?  Do
they have the ability to spend the money?  
  
And our team has raised that up — all of our agencies — that says: We’ve
got to run to that fire, and we have to start building capacity on the
ground level.  And then: How, actually, are we going to do that?  What
does workforce training \[look\] like?  What does the partnership with
community technical colleges look like?  How is labor going to build
apprenticeship programs to lift up people of color who have not been
involved in the (inaudible)?  And how do you create this virtuous cycle
of success and moving in one direction?  
  
This is why — back to Jeff’s questions earlier — if everybody
cooperates, if everybody saves their fire for all of these hot-button
issues that we all tend to disagree with, and don’t focus that on
infrastructure — because there’s not a Republican or a Democratic way to
fill a damn pothole — then we ought to be able to get all of this stuff
done more quickly and better.   
  
And that, ladies and gentlemen, is what a better America looks like for
President Biden.  
  
Thank you all very much.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  All right.  Thank you so much.  
  
MR. LANDRIEU:  I appreciate it.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Invited back anytime, as I always like to say.  
  
Okay.  All right.  This a little bit better this time. Okay, I just have
a couple of items for all of you at the top.  I have a bit of a hard out
at quarter of or 10 of, so we’ll get around to as many people as
possible.  
  
I know that many of you are tracking that we are about to reach our
one-year mark here in the administration.  And we just wanted to note a
couple of the points of progress that have been made that you’ll hear
the President talk more about and members of our administration also
talk more about over the coming days.  
And you know how we love charts around here.  So we have some charts
that lay out a pretty stark contrast between where we started and where
we are now.   
  
So just to highlight a couple of pieces: During the President’s first
year, we saw the most dramatic change in our economy of anywhere in the
world.  It was the biggest year of job growth in American history, and
it was the direct result of actions taken by President Biden and
Democrats in Congress, including the American Rescue Plan, the
vaccination effort it helped fund, and now the Bipartisan Infrastructure
law.    
  
And you can see the economic data there quite starkly.  I mean, look at
the initial unemployment claims.  They’re, on average, eight hundr- —
they were at 812,000 a year ago; they’re now at 210,000.  The
unemployment rate and, obviously, job creation the year before the
President took office and the last year.  
  
As it relates to COVID: If we look to a year ago, only 1 percent of
adults were fully vaccinated; 74 percent of adults are fully vaccinated
now.  
  
In terms of at-home tests on the market — I know we’ve talked about
tests a lot — zero on the market a year ago.  Now we have 375 million
people per month — or tests are distributed, I should say, per month. 
Forty-six percent of schools were open a year ago; now over 95
percent.   
  
This is progress that’s been made.  Obviously, there’s more work that’s
going to be done, that needs to be done.  The job is not done yet, but
we have a plan to address the challenges we’re facing.  And we’re going
to stay at it.  
  
With that, Colleen, why don’t you kick us off?  
  
Q    Okay.  Thanks, Jen.  I wanted to ask about negotiations over voting
rights.  I wanted to see, you know, what you guys are expecting this
week.  And then what’s plan B if things go south, you know, to secure
elections and ensure voting access if the bills don’t pass?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, as you all know, the negotiations — or the debate is
starting in the Senate.  The President’s view is that the American
people deserve to see where their leaders stand on protecting their
fundamental rights.  That is a reason to move forward with this debate
and this vote this week.   
  
And his view is also that opposing rule changes to make the protection
of voting rights a reality is supporting an — an obstacle to protecting
voting rights.  It’s part of the important process.  
  
In terms of what — so, we will continue to — and you’ve heard the
President say and I’m sure he will reiterate for you if anyone asks him
tomorrow that until his last breath, he will be fighting for the
protection of voting rights.  And that means conversations and fighting
to get legislation at the federal level through is going to continue. 
And those conversations will continue.   
  
I will note that, in addition, we have also been working with
organizations all across this country who are building diverse
coalitions to pass voter laws and push back against those that make it
harder to vote and threaten free and fair administration of elections,
in addition to doing the critical work to register and educate voters.  
  
These organizations have built grassroots leadership at the state
level.  They’re providing training, policy research, messaging guidance,
and directing — organizing to register voters, deploy voter protection
teams in states that are rolling back voter protection.   
  
I’d also note: The Vice President knows Americans at every level are
focused on this fight.  And she will continue engaging and leading this
effort with activists, policy leaders, and elected officials around the
country.    
  
But, right now, our focus is on the debate, on the vote that is going to
be happening, and on the fact that it will highlight very clearly for
the American people who stands with them in protecting their voting
rights and who stands against it.  
  
Q    That makes sense.  What do you hope to achieve with the Secretary
of State heading not only to Ukraine, but then later to Geneva to meet
with Lavrov, especially since, you know, talks with — over Ukraine
aren’t exactly going all that well right now?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, let me just give you a little bit of an update on
where things stand.  And obviously, you’re following this closely.   
  
But, this morning, Secretary Blinken spoke with Russian Foreign Minister
Lavrov.  They agreed to meet in Geneva, as you — as you noted.  At that
meeting, Secretary Blinken will urge Russia to take immediate steps to
de-escalate.  He will also fly to Kyiv to consult with President
Zelenskyy and Ukraine’s leaders, and to Germany for consultations.  
  
As you also know, there is a congressional delegation that is also on
their way <s>there</s> \[back\].  And it’s — a note — I would note that
that just indicates that support for Ukraine has always been a
bipartisan issue, and we welcome that.  
  
But where things stand right now: President Putin has created this
crisis by amassing 100,000 Russian troops along Ukraine’s borders.  This
includes moving Russian forces into Belarus recently for joint exercises
and conducting additional exercises on Ukraine’s eastern border.   
  
So, let’s be clear: Our view is this is an extremely dangerous
situation.  We’re now at a stage where Russia could at any point launch
an attack in Ukraine.   
  
And what Secretary Blinken is going to go do is highlight very clearly
there is a diplomatic path forward.  It is the choice of President Putin
and the Russians to make whether they are going to suffer severe
economic consequences or not.  
  
Go ahead.  Oh, let me go around to people who haven’t had a question.  
  
Q    That’s fine.  Go ahead.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead, Trevor.   
  
Q    Could you — when you’re talking about, kind of, this meeting that
the Secretary of State is going to have with Sergey Lavrov, what is the
— is there an expectation that he’s going to provide some sort of
response to the issues that were raised in the January 10th meeting?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, again, I don’t have anything for you to specifically
preview on the behind-the-scenes negotiations and discussions.   
  
But our position has been crystal clear from the beginning — the
position of the President and the Secretary of State — that there are
two paths: There’s a diplomatic path forward — we certainly hope they
take that path; there’s the other path.   
  
It is up to the Russians to determine which path they’re going to take,
and the consequences will be severe if they don’t take the diplomatic
path.  
  
Q    And in terms of the consequences, there has been reporting out of
Europe that essentially this idea that’s been floated about taking
Russia out of the SWIFT financial payment system is basically off the
table at this point.  Is that accurate?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  No option is off the table in our view.  We continue
consulting closely with European counterparts on severe counter- —
consequences for Russia if it further invades Ukraine.  
  
Q    And do you have a commitment from the German government that they
will end the Nord Stream 2 pipeline?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I think, as you know, it is not functioning currently. 
You’ve seen the steps that they have taken recently.  The pipe- —
Germany’s Federal Network Agency has suspended cert- — the certification
process, as well, of Nord Stream 2.   
  
And our view continues to be that stopping the Nord Stream 2 pipeline is
a critical — credible piece we hold over Russia at this point in time,
especially since it is not functioning.  And if sanctions are imposed
right now, which some are proposing — and Russia views these sanctions
as a sunk cost — then this would be one less consideration in its
calculus.  
  
So, of course, we’re consulting closely with all of our partners and
allies in this.  But I would just note, again, that the pipeline is not
operational — that Germany’s Federal Network Agency has suspended the
certification process.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q  Thanks.  Staying on Ukraine and Russia: What does the White House
make of the evac- — the evacuation of Russian diplomatic staff from
their embassy in Kyiv?  And do you think the threat of invasion is
getting higher or lower?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think, as I noted a few minutes ago, we believe
we’re now at a stage where Russia could at any point launch an attack on
Ukraine.  I would say that’s more stark than we have been.  
  
In terms of the decision to move — to move — to evacuate their embassy
or to move personnel out of their embassy, we have information that
indicates the Russian government was preparing to evacuate their family
members from the Russian Embassy in Ukraine in late December and early
January.   
  
We certainly would refer you to them for more specifics about what their
decision is.   
  
But we don’t have an assessent \[sic\] — assessment on why and the
meaning.  
  
Q    Okay.  And then, another one: On reports that the White House is in
talks with the FAA and wireless providers on the 5G rollout and those
potential disruption to airline travel, is there anything more you can
tell us on this agreement you’re working on?  And are you trying to
prevent any flight cancellations which could start as soon as
tomorrow?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, we are — those conversations are ongoing.  I don’t
have an update at this moment, but they’re ongoing right now, I would
say.   
  
So, we have the safest airspace in the world.  We’re committed to
reaching a solution around 5G deployment that maintains the highest
level of safety while maintaining distruptions \[sic\] — while
minimizing disruptions to passenger travel, cargo operations, and our
economic recovery.  
  
We certainly understand what’s at stake for both industries.  We are
actively engaged, as you said, with the FAA, FCC, wireless carriers,
airlines, and aviation equipment manufacturers to reach a solution.  And
we believe that with continued cooperation, we can chart a path
forward.  But certainly minimizing flight disruptions, ensuring safety
and travel is a top priority.  
  
Q    And then, one more — going Bloomberg on you —   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead.   
  
Q    Microsoft buying Activision Blizzard will create the world’s third
biggest video game company.  Does the White House have any competition
concerns with this acquisition?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would just note that, today, there is an
announcement by the FTC and the Justice Department that’s probably
happening now — broadly speaking — this is not about this specific case
— which is, in our view, a critical step towards delivering on one of
the key priorities of the executive order the President has signed,
which is strengthening enforcement against illeger \[sic\] — illegal
mergers, and it basically kicks off the technical process to review
merger guidelines.   
  
As it relates to this specific case that you mentioned, I don’t have a
comment on this specific merger.  But I just wanted to point you to
their announcement — their press conference that may be going on right
now.   
  
Go ahead.  Oh, Joey, let me — go ahead.  
  
Q    Okay.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Let me — go ahead — so I just get to the people
(inaudible).  
  
Q    Yeah, sure.  
  
Q    Thank you.  There’s bipartisan supply chain resiliency legislation
in the House: the U.S. Innovation and Competition Act.  Is the White
House engaged in getting lawmakers on board with this?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Very closely engaged.  And we’ve been advocates for
investing in manufacturing here in the United States, including
investment in our chips manufacturing capacity.  But we’re very closely
engaged in these discussions.  
  
Q    Can you say a little bit more about that — where — what kind of
discussions you’re having, and where there’s (inaudible)?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Just that we’ve been engaged from the beginning, the
President has long been an advocate for increasing investment in our
manufacturing capacity at home, and we are looking forward to it moving
forward.  
  
Q    Okay.  And then, I have another one: Does the President think that
members of Congress should be prohibited from trading stocks?  The
President is prohibited from doing this.  So, where does he stand on
this?  And should their spouses be too?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  The President didn’t trade individual stocks when he was a
senator; that is how he approached things.  He also believes that
everyone should be held to the highest standard, but he’ll let members
of — the leadership in Congress and members of Congress determine what
the rules should be.  
  
Go ahead, Michael.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  A couple of questions on what happened in Texas over
the weekend.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.   
  
Q    How is it that an individual who was known to MI5 in Britain, who
was on a watchlist as of 2020, ended up in a synagogue in Texas?  How —
how did that happen?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, our understanding — and, obviously, we’re still
looking into this — is that he was checked against U.S. government
databases multiple times prior to entering the country, and the U.S.
government did not have any derogatory information about the individual
in our systems at the time of entry.  
  
We’re certainly looking back, as I referenced, at what occurred to learn
every possible lesson we can to prevent attacks like this in the
future.   
  
Beyond that, I’d certainly refer you to the Department of Homeland
Security.  
  
Q    And, obviously, the President referred to the incident as “an act
of terror.”  What is the significance of referring to the individual as
a “terrorist” or referring to the incident as a “terrorist incident”?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I think — and I talked to the President about this that day
as well.  I think there’s no question that when somebody goes into a
house of worship and threatens and holds hostage individuals who are
there that that is an act of terror.  That is terrorism.  That is why he
called it that, because we don’t need to be — because it’s very clear
that’s what it is.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Hi.  Thanks, Jen.  Getting back to voting rights for a minute —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — you mentioned that the White House administration is going to
continue to push back against state legislatures.  The President
mentioned this as well last week.   
  
But just to drill down on that a little more, can we expect to see more
litigation from the Department of Justice around this?   
  
And if you look at cases that have already been filed under Section 2,
we know historically that takes a very long time — years — to resolve. 
Are you confident that there is any action you can take that would
result in any outcome before the midterms?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I’d really refer to the Department of Justice.  As you
know, they have doubled their funding for voting rights protections. 
But in terms of individual cases or legal intentions or actions, I would
point you to them.  
  
Q    And then, quickly, to shift a little bit to healthcare and the
Affordable Care Act — that was something that President Biden ran on:
expanding the ACA.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    He’s able to do that, of course, through the Rescue Plan.  But some
of those other pieces were tied to Build Back Better: expanding
Medicaid, again addressing subsidies.  Is there a plan B, a
consideration of what steps could be taken if Build Back Better doesn’t
pass?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, here’s the good news: There’s a lot of interest,
excitement, and engagement with a broad range of members of Congress
about the shared desire to get something done and to lower costs for
healthcare, for eldercare, for childcare.  
  
And those — there are a range of conversations that are ongoing.  Lots
of ideas that we’re discussing and we’re engaged with.  That is the
status.  
  
The President proposed this as part of his package because he — as you
said, he has advocated for, he ran on, he has fought for an expansion of
access to healthcare, lower costs for healthcare.   
  
He also feels very strongly about lowering the cost of prescription
drugs — something he thinks is — frankly, shouldn’t be controversial in
this country.  “If you’re not for lowering the cost of prescription
drugs, what are you for, Republicans in Congress?” is his basic
fundamental question.  
  
So, this is something we will continue to discuss, we’re continuing to
fight for and work for.  But, you know, I know there have been a range
of reports out there, and I would just make very clear there is no
specific proposal we are putting forward.  We are just engaged in a
range of conversations with members of Congress about what to do next.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  Can you provide an update on the COVID testing
website?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  
  
Q    Is it ready to go?  Has the hotline number been created?  You know,
resiliency against crashes — that type of thing.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  So, COVIDTests.gov is in the beta phase right now,
which is a standard part of the process typically as it’s being kind of
tested in the early stages of being rolled out.  
  
We didn’t start from scratch here, of course.  The Postal Service
already runs a website that sells goods to the public.   
  
As you know, every website launch, in our view, comes with risk.  We
can’t guarantee there won’t be a bug or two.  But the best tech teams
across the administration and the Postal Service are working hard to
make this a success.   
  
So, it will officially launch tomorrow morning.  It’s in the beta
testing phase right now.  
  
And I would also note that the U.S. Digital Service, which was an
organization founded after HealthCare.gov — after the HealthCare.gov
rescue, has been supporting the Postal Service to ensure that they have
what they need to be successful in this critical moment.   
  
And so, looking forward to an official launch tomorrow morning.  And
right now, it’s in the beta phase.  
  
Q    On Ukraine and Russia, I know you said that the United States is
ready for Russia to engage at any time.  I wanted to ask you, though,
about the media narrative of the falsifying — or alleging that Russia is
going to say that Ukraine is going to attack Russia.  Have you seen any
indications of that?  Has that — has that narrative been put it into
works yet?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We talked about this a fair amount on Friday, because we’ve
seen efforts to push that narrative in the media and in the public.   
  
And I think one of the key roles we can play here is making very clear
that there is a long history of propaganda from Russian leadership —
that they use it as a tool to spread misinformation as a means of
gaining ground.   And we should be very clear about what’s accurate and
inaccurate.  And that’s an inaccurate narrative.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, Jen.  Thank you.  Since there are so few reporters in
here today, I’d like to ask briefly about three transparency issues.   
  
The first one I’m kind of amazed hasn’t been brought up more in this
room: That is that Vanity Fair reported recently that, on October 22nd,
a group of health experts from Harvard, the Rockefeller Foundation, and
other groups proposed on a Zoom meeting with administration officials a
plan to mass distribute coronavirus tests to homes before Christmas to
prevent a winter surge of COVID-19 cases, but that they were told, three
days after that Zoom meeting, that that idea was dead.  
  
So, I emailed you about this yesterday and again this morning so that
you’d be able to track down a firm answer on two details here.  The
first detail is: Which administration officials attended that October
22nd meeting?  For example, did Drs. Fauci and Walensky participate?   
  
And was President Biden personally briefed at the time on that
recommendation before it was passed over?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, maybe people haven’t asked about it because we’ve done
a lot of what was discussed in that meeting that happened a couple of
months ago, including massively expanding our testing program and
capacity.  
  
And the issue at the time, which was a very small part of the
conversation, was that the market had not expanded enough to, at that
moment in time, be able to launch the website we’re launching
tomorrow.   
  
And the President, you know, used the Defense Production Act, invested
$3 billion to expand it, quadrupled the size of our testing capacity,
and now we’ve ordered one billion doses.   
  
So, we see that as — our COVID team and the members who participated saw
that as a very constructive meeting, a good meeting, a lot of which
we’ve worked to implement.  
  
Q    So, the idea though to mass distribute tests to homes before
Christmas and New Year’s — that idea was not adopted.  How can President
Biden shut down the virus if he’s, you know, not being briefed on these
ideas?  I mean, that’s my question.  So, I’m wondering: Who were the
advisors, and was President Biden briefed on this idea at the time?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think I just answered your question, which — you may
not have been listening.  Maybe you were waiting to read your next
question, which is fine.  But I just answered your question —  
  
Q    But you didn’t, though.  (Inaudible) which advisors or —    
  
MS. PSAKI:  Let me finish.  Let me finish, Steven.  
  
Q    — whether President Biden was briefed.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Steven, I’m finishing.   
  
What I said to you just a minute ago is that we did not have the
capacity at the moment.  We had a very constructive meeting with this
group.  We agreed in the need to expand our testing capacity.  That’s
why we quadrupled the size of our testing capacity and why the President
had already used the Defense Production Act to invest $3 billion.  But
the market did not have the capacity at that moment to do what we’re
doing tomorrow.  
  
Q    Yes, I hear what you’re saying, but that’s not the question I
asked.  The question I asked was: Which — which —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Do you have another question?  I think I’ve answered your
question.  
  
Q    — which advisors?  And was President Biden briefed at the time?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Again, I’ve answered your question.  If you have another
one, I’m happy to answer it.   
  
Otherwise, I’m going to move on to the next person.  
  
Q    Okay.  Well, I’m disappointed I didn’t get answers there, but I’ll
move onto another one.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Great.  
  
Q    The second question is that, in light of President Biden’s first
year coming to a close, the data indicates that he spent a quarter of
his days at least partially in Delaware.  In light of that, will the
White House be reconsidering the — the decision not to release visitor
log information from his Delaware residences?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, the President goes to Delaware because it’s his home. 
And it’s also where his son and his former wife are buried.  And it’s a
place that is, obviously, close to his heart.  
  
A lot of presidents go visit their home when they are President.  We’ve
also have gone a step further than the prior administration and many
administrations in releasing visitor logs of people who visit the White
House, and we’ll continue to do that.  
  
Go ahead in the back.  
  
Q    Thank you.  Third question — my third —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I think we’re done, and we’re going to move on.   
  
Go ahead, in the back.  
  
Q    Reuters reported this morning: “The Biden administration is
reviewing e-commerce giant Alibaba’s cloud business” for U.S. national
security reasons.  Can you confirm?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I’d really have to check with our national security team on
that.  I’m happy to do that, and we’ll get back to you after the
briefing.   
  
Go ahead, in the back.  
  
Q    Hey, Jen.  I want to pivot back to voting rights —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  
  
Q    — particularly the President’s speech last week.  I  
wonder if you could talk a little bit about how it came together.  But
also, I wonder if you’ll respond to some of the criticism about it —
that it was too aggressive or divisive and that, you know, some of the
rhetoric that he used wasn’t, you know, conducive to getting folks who
are opposed on board.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well — sorry, which piece did you want me to start with?  
  
Q    Whichever one is best for you.  (Laughter.)  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Okay.  Well, I would say first that, you know, the President
delivered a powerful speech about the protection of people’s fundamental
rights in this country, which is their right to vote — their right to
vote for anyone they choose, whether it is him or someone else.  
  
It was not a partisan speech.  It was intended to lay out for the public
exactly what’s at stake and lay out for elected officials what’s at
stake.  And he stands by everything he said in that speech.  
  
Q    Can you talk a little bit about how it came together though?  Like,
who did he — who did he or the White House consult with?  Like, how did
he land at this point?  I’m just trying to get to the genesis of it.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, he consulted — there have been discussions for months
on voting rights on the Hill with Democrats.  Certainly, an open door to
Republicans to have a discussion among members and among staff about a
path forward — something that 16 Republicans who are serving today have
supported in the past.   
  
And also, he consulted a lot with civil rights leaders.  We consulted
with civil rights leaders, with voting rights activists, and others who
have been working around the clock to advocate for voting rights.   
  
Okay.  Go ahead, Jeff.  
  
Q    If I could ask you a couple questions — first, what is the
administration or the White House doing today on the 5G controversy, if
anything —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  
  
Q    — in the remaining hours before the midnight deadline?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  So, there are ongoing discussions right now with members of
our economic team who are closely engaged with — at the FAA, FCC,
wireless carriers, airlines and aviation equipment, manufacturers to
reach a solution.   
  
As you noted, tomorrow is the deadline.  Our objective is, of course, to
reach a solution around 5G deployment that maintains the highest level
of safety while minimizing disruptions to passenger travel.  That’s what
we’re working towards.   
  
But everyone from Secretary Pete Buttigieg to members of our economic
team are closely engaged in these discussions.  
  
Q    Okay.  And heading into the President’s press conference tomorrow
on the eve of his one-year anniversary, he has long said that he would
talk “straight from the shoulder” — I think is his words — to be — kind
of give an honest assessment of things.  What is your honest assessment
of the last year of the Biden administration?  And how can the voting
rights failure not be seen as some type of a metaphor for these
challenges?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say, in terms of voting rights, his view is
that it’s never a good idea not to shoot for the moon with what your
proposals are and what you’re fighting for.   
  
And the alternative is to fight for nothing and to fight for nothing
hard.  And that sometimes — oftentimes, as you know; you’ve covered a
couple of administrations — you don’t get everything done in the first
year.   
  
But what we feel good about — and this is why I brought some of these
charts, to just show the contrast — is that coming into an incredibly
difficult circumstance — fighting a pandemic; an economic — a massive
economic downturn as a result; an administration that was — prior to us,
that did not effectively deal with a lot of these crises — that there’s
been a lot of progress made.   
  
We need to build on that.  The work is not done.  The job is not done. 
And we are certainly not conveying it is.   
  
So, our objective — and I think what you’ll hear the President talk
about tomorrow — is how to build on the foundation we laid in the first
year.  
  
Go ahead.   
  
Q    On 5G, the FAA has had two years to come up with a plan for this,
to deal with this implementation.  Should they have acted sooner to
minimize disruption?  Did the FAA drop the ball here?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  You know, I think, Mary, there’ll be lots of time to look
back and see how we got here.  And I know many of you will do that, and,
of course, that is understandable.  But right now, over the next 24 — or
less than 24 hours — what we’re focused on is trying to come to a
solution that will minimize travel — disruptions to passenger travel,
cargo operations, and our economic recovery.  And that is why it’s so
important to hopefully come to an agreement and ensure more planes are
flying out there.  
  
Q    And —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead.  
  
Q    — just on voting rights: Unless something has dramatically changed,
which it doesn’t seem likely, this is going to fail.  You have made
clear that the President is going to keep up this fight, fight with
every last breath he has.  Does that mean that this is the top priority
going forward, legislatively?  I ask because, obviously, BBB is still
stalled as well.  Where is the President going to be putting his energy,
in terms of (inaudible)?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We can and will advocate for both.  And that is reflective
of what’s happening now too.   
  
Of course, voting rights is right now being debated.  It’s going to be
on the floor.  The President was out last week, as you know, giving a
powerful speech about why this is so important to move forward.   
  
At the same time, we were having a range of conversations on Build Back
Better because we also want to get that done.  So, we’re going to keep
fighting for both.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  You know, the airlines are using some pretty dire
language to describe what’s going to happen tomorrow if the President
doesn’t step in and take action.  They’re saying that the nation’s
commerce will grind to a halt, that the vast majority of the traveling
and shipping public will essentially be grounded.  Does the President
share the view that the airlines have about how bad this is going to be
if the White House doesn’t step in?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think what we’re trying to do now is come to a
solution to avoid exactly that.  And it is true that if there are
hundreds or thousands of flights that are grounded, that means not just
disruptions to passenger travel.  That also means cargo operations, that
means that goods aren’t moving around as quickly and effectively as they
need to in order to not have supply chain disruptions.   
  
So, this is something that we are very focused on, we’ve been closely
engaged on, and we want to avoid that and prevent it.  
  
Q    Can you explain why the FAA and the FCC seem to have different
views here?  The FAA seems to share some of the concerns that the
airlines have about the possible implications of implementing 5G,
whereas the FCC has said, based on the data it’s seen, it’s not a
problem.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think part of this is having a negotiation and
trying to find a solution.  I’m not going to speak for the FCC, which
is, of course, independent.  Our objective is to prevent this from
becoming the economic disruption that you referenced in your
question.   
  
Go ahead, Joey.  
  
Q    Yeah.  Thanks, Jen.  You mentioned the beta testing is already
underway, in regards to the COVID-19 testing website.  One of my
colleagues discovered that they’re already — you are already able to
purchase that — or not purchase them — order them —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — for free online.   
  
So, you know, for people who are purchasing them today, is — are these
orders being registered?  Are they going to be able to get theirs —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  That’s beta testing.   
  
Q    Yeah.  Okay.  Yeah.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  So, meaning we’re going to launch it formally
tomorrow morning, but this is how we did Vaccines.gov as well.  So, it’s
kind of a part of the process.  
  
Q    And then, you have an official rollout tomorrow morning.  What time
in the morning can we expect?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have the exact time for you at this moment.  But
again, it’s going to be out tomorrow morning — mid-morning tomorrow —
and we’re looking forward to getting free tests out to the public.   
  
Q    And on the same topic, Maryland Governor Larry Hogan yesterday on
“Face the Nation” said the federal government has, quote, “fallen short
in a couple of ways” recently, in regards to its COVID-19 response.  He
pointed to these 500 million rapid tests, saying the federal government
has purchased tests that his state had already contracted rather than
purchasing new tests.   
  
He said, quote, “We’re sort of hijacking the tests that we already had
plans for, and we’re now getting some of” these — “those providers to
tell us they no longer have the…rapid tests.”  
  
So what is the White House’s response to that criticism that the federal
government is purchasing the same allotment of tests and hamstringing
some state efforts here?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I’d have to check into that — on the accuracy of that with
our COVID team, and I’m happy to do that.  
  
All right.  Thanks so much everyone.  
  
12:51 P.M. EST
