---
category: press-briefings
date: '2022-01-10'
modified_time: 2022-01-10 19:39:20-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/01/10/background-press-call-by-a-senior-administration-official-on-ethiopia/
published_time: 2022-01-10 19:45:00-05:00
title: Background Press Call by a Senior Administration Official on Ethiopia
---
 
Via Teleconference

3:12 P.M. EST  
  
MODERATOR:  Thank you very much.  And good afternoon, everyone.  And
thank you for joining the NSC press call on Ethiopia.   
  
As a reminder, this call will be on background, attributed to a “senior
administration official,” and the contents are embargoed until the
conclusion of the call.  
  
For everyone’s awareness but not for reporting: Our speaker today is
\[senior administration official\].   
  
\[Senior administration official\], we’ll turn it over to you now.  And
after your remarks, we’ll open it up for Q&A.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Great.  Thanks very much,
\[moderator\].  And thanks, everybody, for being on the call.   
  
The crisis in Ethiopia has been very challenging for the United States
from before this administration took office but certainly through the
entirety of our tenure up until now.   
  
It has a number of dimensions.  There’s obviously a humanitarian crisis
that is particularly acute.   
  
There’s also a security crisis that has regional implications, given the
role and influence of outside states.  And here, I would note,
particularly, the unhelpful role of Eritrea in this conflict.   
  
And it also runs the risk of distracting from other regional priorities
to the United States, like the fight against al-Shabaab.   
  
I wanted to clarify, given the range of accounts we sometimes see, how
we see the approach the United States has been taking to this conflict
from day one.  We’ve been emphasizing to all parties that there is no
military solution to this conflict.  We’ve been warning against
atrocities.  We’ve been trying to facilitate a peaceful resolution
through dialogue between the parties.  We are not choosing sides or
putting our thumb on the scale.   
  
As I think many of you know, we sent <s>a</s> Senator Chris Coons out to
speak — as a personal emissary of the President — with the Prime
Minister early in our tenure and named a very senior diplomat, Jeff
Feltman, as our Special Envoy to help manage this crisis.   
  
This has, obviously, also been a major focus of time across our
administration — from the President to the Vice President, the Secretary
of State, and really to the entire national security interagency — with
regular meetings among senior officials held on this topic.   
  
The trajectory of the conflict has been a bit of a pendulum, with each
side having moments of clear advantage.  In recent days, the Prime
Minister has begun sending more positive signals: prisoner releases,
openness to dialogue, and pledges with regard to humanitarian access.   
  
The Tigrayan side has also publicly committed to dialogue.   
  
On the other hand, given what we’ve seen in the past, it’s hard to know
how long this relatively constructive phase will last.   
  
So, the purpose of the call today was really to reinforce some of the
more constructive steps and inclinations Prime Minister Abiy may be
demonstrating, to put the U.S.-Ethiopia relationship onto a constructive
footing, and reiterate where we need to continue to see progress —
specifically, the Ethiopian army not going into Tigray; stopping
airstrikes, which has taken place in recent days and about which we’ve
been quite concerned, including publicly; expanding humanitarian access
to all regions of the country; and engaging in ceasefire talks.   
  
So, we do see this as a moment of opportunity if the parties are willing
and able to seize it.  That remains to be seen.  And this window won’t
be open forever.  So, our goal will be to facilitate that to the
greatest extent possible.  
  
MODERATOR:  Great.  And with that, we will open it up for Q&A.  
  
Q    Hi, thank you so much for doing this.  Will Pres- — did — will
President Biden’s call to Abiy today result in any humanitarian access
to Tigray?   
  
And you mentioned the Eritreans, so I wanted to follow up on that.  Have
the Eritreans returned, as the TPLF has said?  And if so, is it a
full-scale invasion again aimed at ending the TPLF or a limited
incursion?  What information do you have about the penetration of
Ethiopian security structures by Eritreans?  Thank you.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Great.  Thank you.  I’ll respond to
those in the order in which you ask them.   
  
Humanitarian access was a significant focus of the discussion between
the two leaders today.  President Biden was very clear, as I just
explained in the readout, that full humanitarian access should be
restored, unfettered to all regions of the country.  The Prime Minister
seemed to understand that that was the request.  He has made a series of
commitments, including publicly, to expand humanitarian access.  And it
will now be up to the Ethiopian government to deliver on what they have
been pledging to do.   
  
But we think this is broadly in the interest of all Ethiopians and,
certainly, of the humanitarian situation.  
  
On the Eritrians, as I indicated in my opening comments, their role in
this crisis has been a negative from the start.  You know, we do not
believe that they have a constructive role to be played in a conflict
that is taking place on the other side of their border.  I’m not going
to get into our various intelligence and other assessments of the role
that they’re playing currently.  But suffice it to say we still believe
that their role is unhelpful and that they should, frankly, stay out of
this conflict.   
  
Q    Hi, there.  Thanks very much for taking this call.  Speaking of
countries that are playing an unhelpful role, can you tell us what is
the — what message is the United States sending to the United Arab
Emirates and Turkey, which have been reported to be support — supplying
the government with armed drones in order to prosecate \[sic\] the —
prosecute war?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So, I’m not going to get into private
diplomatic conversations that have taken place –with a whole range of
countries, by the way, including some of the countries that border
Ethiopia and other countries in the broader region.   
  
Our approach has been to try to align all of the international actors
with a voice in what is happening in Ethiopia and with any influence
over Ethiopia’s leadership — including the parties, by the way, on both
sides — around what I described was our objective, which is that there
is no military solution, that there is only peace through dialogue
between the parties.  And right now, there should be a lot of energy put
into dialogue aimed at a ceasefire that can try to bring this conflict
to a better place.   
  
That is how — that what we communicate in private to the various
parties, including the one that you mentioned, and it’s what our public
message is as well.   
  
Q    Hi, \[senior administration official\].  Thanks for doing this. 
I’m wondering how you would describe the tone of the meeting, in
particular Abiy Ahmed, and if he made any commitments for next steps.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So, look, I would describe the
conversation as businesslike, as serious, as substantive, and, you know,
focused on issues.  You know, and in terms of next steps, I think we
made clear, the President made clear what the President would like to
see — which is, again, the Ethiopian army not going in to Tigray; to
halting airstrikes, including — and particularly those that have caused
a loss of life among civilians; expanding humanitarian access; and
engaging in direct ceasefire talks.  
  
You know, those are the next steps that we would like to see.  There
have been some commitments made, including publicly, by the Prime
Minister on some of those issues.  And, you know, our view is that he
should now move forward on those commitments.   
  
Q    Yes, thank you for doing this, and thank you for taking my
questions.  Simon Ateba, Today News Africa.  First, I would like to know
who initiated today’s call.  Was it President Biden or Prime Minister
Abiy?  
  
And you also said that the Prime Minister seemed to understand that
humanitarian access should be restored.  But did he make any commitment
to allow humanitarian access into Tigray?  And as, you know, (inaudible)
what kind of commitment did he make?   
  
And did the President make clear that — what his redline is in
Ethiopia?  Thank you.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So, President Biden asked for this
phone call for the reasons that I explained during my opening
comments.  
  
As for commitments that were made: You know, it is our general approach
in reading out these calls that we don’t characterize what the other
side said; we focus primarily on what President Biden has communicated. 
So, that’s what I’ve done here.  
  
I will say it was quite clear from President Abiy — Prime Minister
Abiy’s comments that he understood the imperative of restoring
humanitarian access.  And, again, I will refer you to his public
comments in this regard — public commitments that have been made and to
our desire that those be implemented.  But I won’t go so far as to
characterize his side of the conversation in any more detail than
that.  
  
Q    Hi, \[senior administration official\].  Thank you so much for
doing this.  As you know, Special Envoy Feltman has been engaging in
these conversations with the Abiy administration and other parties for a
very long time.  So, I’m just wondering if you could help characterize —
how would you compare these talks or the status of the conversations
happening right now to those that have happened, going back, you know,
six months ago — even just a few weeks ago?  Has there been — you know,
is this a reflection of appreciable progress being made?  How would you
characterize the context of all this?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks, Ali.  So, you mentioned Special
Envoy Feltman, as I did.  And I should note that, obviously, Special
Envoy Feltman has reached the end of his tenure and will be giving way
to a new special envoy, David Satterfield, who is one of, you know, our
most experienced diplomats — obviously, coming off of a position as a
U.S. Ambassador to Turkey but has served a number of other roles as well
— and will be very well placed to carry this work forward.  
  
You know, in terms of where we are in the current moment, I guess I
would come back to what I said at the end of my comments: This could be
a moment of opportunity, but only if the parties are willing to take
advantage of it.  And, you know, I’m not going to come out and say that
I have a lot of confidence that that will be done.  I think that remains
to be seen.  
  
This window will not be open forever, and we are going to do everything
that we can to help facilitate continued progress.  We have heard some
public statements from both sides that are more constructive than some
of the things that have been said in the past.  And we have seen at
least the beginnings of some steps in a more constructive direction. 
I’ve mentioned a few of those.  
  
But unless the momentum is maintained, we’ll be back where we were not
so long ago.  And so, our strong hope — and we will be working towards
this — is that they will seize this opportunity.  But it’s really up to
the parties to do it.  
  
Q    Thank you for doing this.  I had a question about the AGOA trade
pact.  Ethiopia was removed from it at the start of the year; this is,
in a way, a consequence.  Are you guys considering any other form of
sanctions going forward if this momentum, as you call it, doesn’t go
forward the way you want it to?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, so I would refer you to what
we’ve said publicly on AGOA in the recent days and weeks, which is:
Obviously, this — this, you know, program was terminated with regard to
Ethiopia because the statute is very clear about their requirements and
the criteria that must be met for countries to participate, and those
relate to human rights, among other things.  
  
We’ve also been quite clear that if more positive and constructive steps
are taken to address the concerns that were raised by the U.S. Trade
Representative that we would be willing to enter a process of discussion
with the government of Ethiopia about an off-cycle review of their
status.  But we would need to see significantly more progress on the
concerns that led to the termination in the first place in order to go
down that road.   
  
Q    Hi, thanks for doing this.  I just wanted to ask if you could
provide any more details on Ambassador Feltman’s trip last week.   
  
And when will — I know you mentioned that his time is over, but when
will Ambassador Satterfield officially assume the role?  And are there
any plans for him to visit the region?  Thank you.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So, I’ll refer you to the State
Department on the exact timing for Ambassador Satterfield, but we expect
it won’t be long.   
  
The President and the Prime Minister did discuss Ambassador Satterfield
making a trip to the region, you know, soon after he is fully on board. 
But again, nothing scheduled yet, and I’ll refer you to the State
Department to determine that.  
  
In terms of Ambassador Feltman’s visit, it came at the request and the
suggestion of the Ethiopian government.  And it was in many ways a
preview of some of what was said on the current call, and some of what
the government of Ethiopia and the Prime Minister himself have said
publicly.  So, I think the substantive readout would not be any
different in meaningful ways from what I’ve already described.  And I
will leave those conversations to the State Department to describe
further if they’d like.  
  
MODERATOR:  Thank you all.  And those are all the questions we have time
for today.  
  
Again, thank you for our speaker for joining.  And thank you for all of
you for joining to cover the call.  
  
As a reminder of the ground rules: The call is on background,
attributable to a “senior administration official.”   
  
The embargo is now <s>listed</s> \[lifted\], so feel free to report the
contents of this conversation.  
  
3:27 P.M. EST
