---
tags: press-briefings
date: '2022-01-14'
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/01/14/background-press-call-by-a-senior-administration-official-on-cybersecurity/
published_time: 2022-01-14 18:12:13-05:00
title: "Background Press Call by a Senior Administration Official on\_Cybersecurity"
---
 
Via Teleconference

4:33 P.M. EST  
  
MODERATOR:  Hey, everyone.  Thanks for joining us closer to the end of
the day on a Friday.  So, as noted in the invite, this is a background
call on cybersecurity.  I’m going to let our speaker get into more
details about that.  
  
Before I turn it over to the speaker, let me just do the ground rules
really quickly.  
  
So, this briefing is on background.  It is attributable to a “senior
administration official.”  And it is embargoed until the conclusion of
the call.  
  
Just for your awareness but not for reporting, the speaker on this call
is \[senior administration official\].  
  
You know, we’re running a little bit behind time today, so we’re only
going to have time for a couple of questions.  But if you don’t get your
question in, you know how to reach me, and I’m happy to get back to you
as soon as I can.  
  
So, with that, I’ll turn it over to you.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thank you very much.  And good
afternoon, everyone.  Like \[moderator\] said, thank you for joining us
late on a Friday afternoon.  
  
So, we welcome, of course, that the Kremlin is taking law enforcement
steps to address ransomware emanating from its borders.  
  
The President believes in diplomacy.  President Biden and President
Putin set up a White House-Kremlin Experts Group on ransomware last
June.  As we’ve said and the Russians have acknowledged, we’ve been
sharing information with the Russians through this channel, including
information related to attacks on American critical infrastructure.  
  
We understand that one of the individuals who was arrested today was
responsible for the attack  
against Colonial Pipeline last spring.  
  
     We’re committed to seeing those conducting ransomware attacks
against Americans brought to justice, including those that conducted
these attacks on JBS, Colonial Pipeline, and Kaseya.  
  
     I also want to be very clear: In our mind, this is not related to
what’s happening with Russia and Ukraine.  I don’t speak for the
Kremlin’s motives, but we’re pleased with these initial actions.  
  
     We’ve also been very clear: If Russia further invades Ukraine, we
will impose severe costs on Russia in coordination with our allies and
partners.  
  
     As the President has said, cyber criminals are resilient and we
will continue to take action to disrupt and deter them while engaging in
diplomacy, as we have with Russia, allies, and partners around the
world.  
  
     So, with that, over to you.  Looking forward to your questions.  
  
Q    Thank you so much.  Thanks for doing it.  I want to ask you about
Russia and Ukraine.  And I had a little difficulty hearing, but I think
you said that if they did anything regarding Ukraine, there would be
costs.  
  
Do you have any attribution?  I know the Ukrainians have suggested that
today’s hacking was related to Russian intelligence services.  Has this
moved beyond what the Pentagon said earlier and what the White House
said earlier about attributions about today or any other hacking of
Ukraine in recent days from Russia?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Hi, Andrea.  Can you hear me now?  I’m
sorry.  I have a bad cold, so I know I’m a little hard to hear.  
  
Q    Oh, I’m so sorry.  Feel better.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Okay.  Okay, good.  But I’m glad you
can hear me.  Okay.   
  
So, we don’t have an attribution at this time.  We are in touch with
Ukrainians and have offered our support as Ukraine investigates the
impact and recovers from the incident.  While we continue to assess the
impact to Ukrainians, it seems limited so far, with multiple websites
coming back online.   
  
But I want to note, we are — you know, we and our allies and partners
are concerned about this cyberattack, and the President has been
briefed.  But that is the status at this time.  
  
Q    Hi.  Thank you so much for agreeing to do this on a Friday
evening.  I was curious to know — you said you welcome reports that the
Kremlin is taking action.  Obviously, there’s been a suggestion that
this operation was done at the direct behest of the White House.  Could
you talk a little bit about whether that’s, in fact, true — whether this
is something that was done specifically at your urging, with information
that the White House had indeed provided?  Thank you.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thank you, Eric.  So, as you know,
President Biden and President Putin set up the White House-Kremlin
Experts Group on ransomware last June, and we have been meeting within
that channel and discussing the need for Russia to take action against
ransomware criminals operating from within their borders.  We’ve also
shared information regarding individuals operating from within Russia
who have conducted disruptive attacks against U.S. critical
infrastructure.   
  
And as I noted, we understand that one of the individuals who was
arrested today was indeed the individual responsible for the attack
against Colonial Pipeline last spring.   
  
So, this has — we do attribute today’s announcement to the — to, really,
the President’s commitment to diplomacy and the channel that he
established and the work that has been underway in sharing information
and in discussing the need for Russia to take action.     
  
That being said, each country pursues its law enforcement operations
under, certainly, its own legal system.  And Russia’s announcement today
was clearly something that will be — you know, that was — pursued its
own law enforcement steps.  
  
These are our first — these are very important steps, as they represent
the Kremlin taking action against criminals operating from within its
borders.  And they represent what we’re looking for with regard to
continued activities like these in the future.  
  
Q    Hi.  Thanks for doing the call.  Do you expect anything to happen
to these individuals who have been apprehended?  As you know, there’s no
extradition treaty, and Russia has a history of not really prosecuting
these types of people.  So, what happens now?  What does the White House
hope to happen now, in terms of actually making sure that these people
won’t return to ransomware?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Our expectation is that Russia announce
arrests and that Russia would be pursuing legal action within its own
system against these criminals for the crimes that they have created —
that they have done.  So, that is our expectation.  
  
And it is indeed, to your point, our expectation that they’re brought to
justice and, as such, not only for their past crimes, but preventing
future ones as well.  
  
MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Again, thanks, everyone, for joining.  I know
this was a really short call.  If we didn’t get to your question, please
feel free to email or call me, and I’ll make sure that we get back to
you.  And then, have a great weekend.  Thanks for your time.  Bye.  
  
4:41 P.M. EST  
