---
category: press-briefings
date: '2022-01-24'
modified_time: 2022-01-24 17:13:31-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/01/24/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-january-24-2022/
published_time: 2022-01-24 17:30:00-05:00
title: Press Briefing by Press Secretary Jen Psaki, January 24, 2022
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

1:39 P.M. EST  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Hi, everyone.  Happy Monday. 

  
Okay.  This afternoon, the President will meet with the White House
Competition Council to discuss its success thus far in providing
concrete cost savings to — for Americans families, and to discuss plans
for further actions in the weeks, months, and years ahead.

The Competition Council was set up by the President’s July competition
executive order to coordinate and monitor progress across the entire
federal government.  It is comprised of 10 Cabinet members and the heads
of seven independent agencies. 

He’ll note today that the lack of competition costs average American
households about $5,000 a year, which is a pretty significant sum when
you think about people’s budgets.

Since the executive order was signed six months ago, the Council’s
members have met every deadline in the President’s order.  These actions
across a broad range of industries will bring real benefits to American
families.  For example, the FDA has taken action to lower the cost of
hearing aids from thousands to hundreds of dollars for the millions of
Americans suffering from hearing loss. 

It’s becoming cheaper and easier for Americans to fix the things they
already own. 

Following the executive order’s support for the right-to-repair, the FTC
will repair — will ramp up enforcement actions against illegal repair
restrictions.  Since then, big firms like Apple and Microsoft
voluntarily announced changes to their policies so that consumers can
readily repair their own phones and laptops.

The Department of Justice, the FTC, and other agencies have increased
efforts to challenge or block mergers that would leave customers with
fewer choices, higher prices, and lower wages.  For example, the
Department of Justice blocked an insurance megamerger that would have
raised insurance costs for consumers and businesses alike.

So, this is part of our ongoing effort.

I also wanted to share that NATO is launching a significant military
training exercise called Neptune Strike ‘22.  This is something my
colleague at the Department of Defense updated on, on Friday.  But it
will run through February 4th and is designed to demonstrate NATO’s
high-end maritime strike capabilities.

The USS Harry S. Truman Carrier Strike Group will serve as the
centerpiece for this military exercise and be placed under NATO
operational control.

This is the first time since the end of the Cold War that a U.S. carrier
strike group has gone under NATO command.  And this exercise will help
demonstrate the unity, capability, and strength of the transa- — the
transatlantic Alliance.  It also advances our ability to integrate an
aircraft carrier strike group into NATO’s deterrence and defense
efforts.

While planning for Neptune Strike began in twenty-two — 2020, long
before the current escalation of tensions from Russia’s aggressive
posture towards Ukraine, such exercises help the United States and its
allies enhance interoperability and ensure readiness for any threat
against NATO.

Josh, why don’t you kick us off?

Q    Thanks, Jen.  Two subject areas.

MS. PSAKI:  Yep.

Q    First, Ukraine and Russia.  The President is going to have his
meeting with European counterparts.  What does he plan to discuss with
them?  And how does he plan to address the issue of natural gas, given
that 40 percent of EU’s natural gas imports come from Russia?

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Well, as we put out just a little bit earlier today
in guidance, the President will hold a secure video call with European
leaders as part of our close consultation and coordination with our
transatlantic allies and partners in response to our shared concerns
over Russia’s military buildup on Ukraine’s borders.  
During that conversation, we expect they will discuss diplomacy,
deterrence, and defense efforts.  And we’ll have a readout for you all
afterwards.  And certainly a discussion about pending — the pending
sanctions, or discussion of that, we would expect to be part of that as
well.

But in terms of the impact, I don’t have anything more to read out for
you on that front.

Q    And then, secondly, per the Supreme Court, should race be a factor
in college admissions?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, this is, I think, in relation — I would expect — to
the announcement by the Supreme Court about the decision to take up the
affirmative action case this morning.

While we’re not going to comment on the litigation — I refer those
questions, of course, to the Department of Justice — we strongly believe
— this administration — in the benefits of diversity in higher
education, and we take very seriously our commitment to advancing equity
and equal opportunity for historically underserved populations.  
That’s why, on day one, the President signed an executive order
launching an ambitious whole-of-government response to center equity
throughout the government’s work.  Throughout the Department of
Education, the administration has provided historic investments and
support for Historically Black Colleges and Universities, Tribal
Colleges and Universities, and minority-serving institutions, such as
Hispanic-serving institutions, including nearly $21 billion in
cumulative support.

And we have moved swiftly to protect student civil rights and equal
opportunity, including by issuing guidance about schools’ obligations to
investigate and address claims of discrimination and harassment.

So, of course, the Department of Justice, they can speak to their view
on the litigation.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  Has President Biden made a final decision about
deploying more troops to Eastern Europe?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, let me give you a brief update.  And I know that my
colleague, John Kirby, is going to be briefing shortly, in about 45
minutes or so, at the Defense Department.

We have been consulting with allies on deployments and refining plans
for all scenarios.  We’ve always said we would reinforce our allies on
the eastern flank. 

And those conversations and discussions have certainly been part of what
our national security officials have been discussing with their
counterparts now for several weeks.  In fact, we’ve never ruled out the
option of providing assistan- — additional assistance in advance of an
invasion.

Those discussions have been ongoing with our partners and eastern flank
countries.  And again, I would expect that my colleague, John Kirby,
would have more of an update on where the process is at this point in
time.

Q    So he’ll make a — John Kirby will make an announcement about
whether or not he’s made a decision?

MS. PSAKI:  No, I think he will make — he will provide an update on
where things stand on those discussions.

Q    Okay.  So, last week, President Biden at the press conference said
that the U.S. would fortify NATO Allies, but said it was dependent on an
invasion, saying if — he would send more troops to Poland, to Romania,
if Ukraine — if Putin did invade Ukraine.  So the fact that he’s
considering this now and having these discussions with Pentagon leaders
over the weekend, does that suggest that he believes an invasion is
imminent?

MS. PSAKI:  We’ve never actually ruled out providing additional support,
additional suppo- — assistance to eastern flank countries in advance of
any invasion.  And those discussions with them have been ongoing, and
certainly that’s been part of our contingency planning.

Q    I guess the question is: There does appear to be a shift in his
thinking and his attitude toward it.  Is that how you would characterize
it?

MS. PSAKI:  I wouldn’t characterize it that way.  We have spoken to the
fact that — and we put out a lot of information about our view of the
preparations being made by President Putin and the Russians.  While we
can’t get into the mind of President Putin, we are seeing the
preparations that they’re making at the border.  We have been very clear
and the President has been direct that military action by Russia could
come at any one — at any time.  He said that last week as well.

So, we have been in conversations and discussions with eastern flank
countries.  Obviously, our Secretary of State just returned from a trip
to Europe as well, and he was part of the discussions this weekend too. 
And part of that has been contingency planning and discussing what their
needs have been.

Q    My last question is: Today, the President has this call with
European leaders.  Several of them are on this — the UK, France,
Germany, Italy, Poland, NATO, the European Council.  Why is Ukraine not
on that call this afternoon?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, we have a range of conversations with the Ukrainians. 
Obviously, our Secretary of State met with them last week, and they will
be a part of many conversations moving forward.

As I noted a little bit earlier, part of this is a discussion about
deterrence and defense efforts, diplomacy, but certainly they will be a
part of many conversations as they have been from the beginning.

Go ahead.

Q    So what happened then in the last few days that prompted the
Pentagon to present specific potential troop deployments to the
President?  Or put another way: Why now?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I wouldn’t say we’re characterizing it exactly that
way.  The President has said — said last week, and we also said, that as
we’ve been watching the preparations of President Putin and the
Russians, that they were prepared at any moment to take military action.

We’ve also been in ongoing discussions, from our Secretary of State to
members of our national security team, with our eastern flank partners
about what their needs are and what security concerns they have.  
  
So I wouldn’t say it’s a response to an abrupt moment; it’s a part of an
ongoing contingency planning process and discussion.

Q    After this weekend, is he more or less concerned about the
possibility of a Russian invasion in Ukraine?

MS.  PSAKI:  Well, he said last week that military action by Russia
could come at any time.  That remains his point of view.

Q    And there’s been clamoring in this town and over in Ukraine for a
U.S. ambassador to Ukraine.  Where do things stand on appointing
somebody?

MS.  PSAKI:  Certainly understand that.  I don’t have any update on the
status at this point in time.

Q    The Ukrainian Foreign Ministry said decision to draw down the U.S.
presence in Kyiv at the embassy was, quote, “premature and a
manifestation of excess caution.”

Is this potentially the afterglow of what happened in Afghanistan — a
concern for that?  Or is something else more specific prompting people
to leave?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say that we — our State Department regularly
reviews and assesses what steps need to be taken for the security of our
personnel. 

I would note that the travel advisory was already at a Level 4 since
back in October.  We’ve also been closely consulting and keeping
Ukrainians abreast.  I would say this is more akin to what we — the
steps we took in Ethiopia and Kazakhstan than any other country or
conflict.  
  
Q    One more on Ukraine and then one other quick subject. 

The House Speaker today has requested a bipartisan, all-members briefing
on the situation in Ukraine of the White House.  Is that something you
guys plan to fulfill? 

MS. PSAKI:  We have been in close consultation with members and
leadership from the beginning.  I don’t have any update on this
specifically.  But that’s been our objective and how we have proceeded. 
So I’m sure we are working to meet that request and needs of members.  
  
Q    And based on some news reports, it looks as if at least Jake
Sullivan and maybe others are talking to senior lawmakers about this on
a fairly regular basis.

MS. PSAKI:  And we have been for weeks.  Mm-hmm.

Q    On another subject: Another violent weekend across the country. 
There was a shooting in New York; there was a shooting here in D.C. of a
police officer.  There have been reports of a possible — executive
actions that the President might be able to take in the realm of police
reform or police policy.  Where do things stand on that?  And might that
be coming soon?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, let me — can I — may I address this weekend first? 
And I will come around to your question, but I think you had a few in
there — important ones to address.

The events of this weekend are a reminder that law enforcement officers
head into harm’s way every single day.  They and their families make an
extraordinary sacrifice for their communities. 

The President is never going to be satisfied or complacent when officers
are being gunned down, or when Americans have to worry about whether
they can safely ride the subway or bus or even be at work. 

We’ve seen a surge in crime — obviously, this weekend is a glaring
example of that — especially gun violence over the last two years.  And
the President has been aggressive in using the tools at our disposal to
combat that.  That’s why he took early action on gun violence last
spring, and it’s why he rolled out a comprehensive plan to combat crime
last summer. 

He also believes, as many Americans do, that we can and must have a
criminal justice system that both protects public safety and upholds our
founding ideals of equal treatment under law.  That’s why he not only
has implemented this comprehensive plan to combat crime but why he is
continuing to advocate for reforms to our policing system.  He thinks
that we can do both.  But I don’t have an update on any timings for a
next step on that. 

Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks.  First, on the markets: Does the President think it’s a big
deal that today the Dow Jones is down, at one point, more than 1,100
points?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, to start with, we focus on the trends in the economy,
not any one day and any single indicator.  Unlike his predecessor, the
President does not look at the stock market as a means by which to judge
the economy. 

I would note that the market is up around 15 percent compared to when
President Biden took office.  But our measure of success is really how
real working families are doing — whether they are — have a little
breathing room, whether they have a job that delivers some dignity and a
paycheck that can — they can support a family on.  And we’ve seen a
great deal of progress made on that front.  
  
Q    Thank you.  On schools: In Virginia, seven districts representing
350,000 students are suing the state.  They’re hoping to get a strict
mask mandate for students that has been rolled back by the new governor
reinstated.  So who does the President think knows best for students:
school board members or parents?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, the par- — the President believes that public health
officials have the best guidance on what we can all do to protect
ourselves, including teachers, administrators and students. 

It’s always been up to local school districts to determine how they’re
going to approach what implementation measures they’re going to put in
place. 

But here’s what we know from public health officials, who are the
experts on a pandemic: Studies show that masks reduce transmissions in
school.  They are a proven tool that helps keep students and teachers
safe from COVID.  And they can thus help keep schools open and safe. 

In short, we know it works.  And we need every leader to focus on using
the tactics we know work to keep our students safe and our schools
open. 

I’d note you mentioned Virginia, but in Texas, the state is fighting a
critical public health measure to protect our children and keep our
schools safely open.  For Head Start communities, ones that — a
provision that is requiring masks to keep students and keep communities
safe — they’re fighting against that.  Why is that?  I think that has
more to do with politics than it does with public health.  
  
Q    But right now, in Virginia, the law is — now that there’s a new
governor — that students should not have to wear masks if their parents
say that they don’t think they need to wear masks.  So if a parent wants
to send their school — their kid to school with no mask, should that
child be allowed to go to school and be in class?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Again, we’re — what we’re advising school districts on is to
abide by public health guidelines and follow public health guidelines. 
And it’s about keeping an entire community safe.  And those are the
decisions that are being — that people should focus on making.  
  
Q    And just so that it’s crystal clear for anybody watching: You guys
think that ultimately, in this conflict between school board members and
parents, the school board members should have more of a say in what a
child —

MS. PSAKI:  That’s actually not what I said.  I think everybody should
abide by public health guidelines, not just to keep their own kids safe
but keep their school community safe, whether it’s teachers, classmates,
administrators, others in schools.

Q    Okay.  On crime, to follow up on what Ed was asking about: Would
you agree that the most important job for any president is to keep
Americans safe?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I would agree.

Q    So you said that the President is never satisfied if people don’t
feel safe.  Does he know that after a year in office, people do not feel
safe in this country?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, Peter, I think if we look at the facts here, we’ve
seen a surge of crime over the last two years.  Would you agree with
that?  
  
Q    So what are you attributing the rise in crime to then?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think we should be responsible in how we’re
reporting to the public what the — what the res- — what the roles are —
what the reasons for the surge in crime. 

Gun violence is a huge reason for the surge in crime.  Underfunding of
some police departments and their need for additional resources —
something the President has advocated for consistently through the
course of his career — that’s something we know we need to take action
on.   
  
And it is absolutely true that he will not be satisfied or complacent
when officers are being gunned down or when Americans have to worry
about whether they can safely ride the subway or bus.  That should not
be a political issue.  He’s somebody who has had a long career of — many
decades — of fighting for funding for police departments, for local
communities in order to reduce crime.  
  
Q    But he’s been here, in office, for more than a year, and the murder
rate is nearing a 25-year high.  So, why don’t we see and hear more from
the President about this?  We hear all the time about things that you
guys are doing to fight the pandemic because that is a risk to American
people.  A rising murder rate is a risk to American people too, right?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  And he has spoken to crime.  But I think what people are
most focused on, as they should be, are what actions he has taken.  He
has unveiled a strategy to focus federal law enforcement resources on
combating violent crime, offered unprecedented levels of funding through
the Rescue Plan for cities and states to put more cops on the beat and
invest in proven community anti-violence programs — something every
Republican voted against.   
  
The Department of Justice has announced $139 million in grants to cities
for community policing, which will put 1,000 more officers on the
streets.  He’s also proposed doubling those grants, and he’s called for
an additional $750 million for federal law enforcement.  He’s announced
a zero-tolerance policy for gun dealers who sell willfully — willfully
sell illegal guns.  And we’ve launched gun trafficking strike forces in
New York and cities across the country.  Actions are important here, and
he has a long record of them.  
  
Q    But does the President think that any of that is working?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  The President thinks you should have a plan to address crime
and gun violence.  He has one.  And we look forward to working with
people who support that effort.  
  
Q    But as the murder rate nears a 25-year high, would he consider
maybe trying something different?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Trying something other than supporting a massive plus-up in
funding from his predecessor; cracking down on gun trafficking and gun
violence, which is a major driver of the violence we’ve seen across the
country; working to support community policing programs and police
departments across the country?   
  
I think most people who want to fight crime would agree that’s the right
approach.   
  
Q    But —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead.  Go ahead, Justin.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  Just — I know Kirby is briefing later, but —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  
  
Q    — just to put a finer point on it —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — do you have any information about how many troops are under
consideration; what the timeframe for the President’s decision are; sort
of, the logistical details of a possible deployment?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have any more details from here other than to convey
that we’re in close consultation with eastern flank countries about
their security needs.  And again, we’ve always said we would support
them.  We’ve never said that — that an invasion would be a prerequisite
for that.  
  
Q    Do you expect the written response that you’re putting together to
include any requests or demands from the U.S. side, including, you know,
a timeframe for President Putin to start drawing down troops from
Ukraine’s border?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have anything to preview in terms of what a written
proposal would be.  I would just note — because I — we’ve talked about
this a bit — that written proposals have been the basis of basically
every agreement we’ve ever had with the Russians and many countries
around the world.  They’re a standard part of diplomacy, and they’re a
format for providing areas where — conveying areas where you have
concern, and also — but also outlining areas where you can work
together.  But I don’t have anything to preview on what that would look
like.  
  
Q    We didn’t have a chance last week to talk about one part of the
President’s press conference where he said he’d like to be in a position
to lift — to say that China is meeting its commitments and, therefore,
be able to lift some of the tariffs.  
  
I’m wondering: When he said that, did he mean making good on the phase
one commitments that have already been out there?  I know China is not
meeting those.  Or does he mean additional commitments that you’d be
asking for from the Chinese?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  I think he meant he is looking forward to getting some
recommendations through the review process that’s ongoing.  
  
Q    And then, one last one.  There was an FBI raid last week on
Representative Cuellar, reportedly over his ties to Azerbaijani oil
executives.  I know you’re not going to comment on an ongoing
investigation, but do you think that the congressman should step away
from his committee assignments or congressional work while this
investigation is ongoing?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I’m just not going to have any comment on this at this
point.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    A couple on — more on Ukraine, Jen.  There’s a proposal that’s
floating in the Duma that would ask Vladimir Putin to recognize the
Donetsk and Luhansk regions of Ukraine as independent.  If Putin does
that, would you regard that as an escalation?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I have not spoken with our national security team about
that.  You know our view on the sovereign — the integrital \[sic\] — the
sovereign — the sovereignty of Ukraine.  And, you know, I don’t have any
other comments on it, though, at this point in time.  
  
Q    Okay.  Under what circumstances would we evacuate American citizens
and diplomats from Ukraine?  And can that be done without the U.S.
military?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think the reason that we — the State Department
issued the guidance they did — which, again, is a standard process that
the State Department iss- — does — and regularly — with a range of
countries where we have security concerns — was to make very clear that
we — that American citizens — our recommendation is that U.S. citizens
currently in Ukraine consider departing now using commercial or other
privately available transportation options, use the online forum and our
updated travel advisory to tell us their plans so they can best conduct
our ongoing contingency planning, and register in STEP to ensure they
receive alerts and guidance from the State Department.  
  
We are — there is not an intention for there to be a departure or an
evacuation along those lines, so we are conveying to American citizens
they should leave now.   
  
Q    Okay.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  And, in fact, there’s not — there is not precedent, beyond
Afghanistan, for that to be how it operates.  
  
Q    Got it.  And then, just more broadly: For years, NATO members have
fallen short of their defense spending commitments.  Last year, more
than 60 percent of the Alliance’s 30 members, including half of the
Bucharest Nine that are right near Russia there, failed to meet that —
their 2 percent GDP spending commitment.  If Europeans aren’t willing to
expend blood and treasure on their self-defense, why should Americans be
expected to do so?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, we are continuing to advocate for all members to reach
the 2 percent goal that has been the vi- — the President’s position
since he was the Vice President — so, for many years now.  
  
I would say that we have a sacred obligation under NATO, and we believe
it is also in our interest to support our eastern flank countries and
their security, and also to be clear about the value we have as
Americans, which is that no country should be able to take with force
another country, as Russia is attempting to do at this point in time.  
  
Q    And one last one.  You said that military incursions by Russia into
Ukraine would trigger stiff economic sanctions.  Does that apply to our
policy with China and Taiwan?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  As it rel- —  
  
Q    If there was a military incursion of some kind into Taiwan, would
there be economic sanctions?  Could China expect that?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have anything to preview on this — that at this
point in time.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  So, at the press conference last week, the President
spoke a lot about Build Back Better and his thoughts about sort of where
the sweet spot might be to save as much of that as he can.  I think, the
next day, Senator Manchin was asked if he’d spoken with the President,
and he said he hadn’t yet.  Has there been any conversation — direct
conversation between the President and Senator Manchin since last
week?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We’re just not going to speak to or confirm any
conversations the President has with members of the Senate, moving
forward.   
  
Q    Can you broadly give us a sense of when those conversations will,
sort of, ramp up in earnest?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  The President has been in touch with a range of senators. 
We’re just not going to outline those or confirm those specifically.   
  
Q  On — on putting that together and getting it through the Senate with
50 votes, is the State of the Union more or less the soft deadline?  Or
is this something that may well extend beyond that?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We haven’t set a deadline.  I think what our objective is
and what the President’s objective is, is to move forward on, you know,
an effort in Congress — in the Senate to lower costs for the American
people and do that without raising the deficit — pay for it; make sure
we’re easing the burden that families have across the country.  We need
50 votes to do that, but that is — we don’t have — we have not set a
deadline.  
  
Q    Can I just ask you one other thing about infrastructure?  You may
have seen our story and reporting elsewhere about Republican lawmakers,
who oppose the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law out in the states, over the
recess touting the benefits — taking credit, in some cases, for doing
that.   
  
I know that this is a big pillar of the Democrats’ 2022 midterm argument
and the President’s case for a successful first year.  He’s touted the
bipartisan nature of this.  Is he going to take issue with any of the
Republicans who are out there who — I mean, is he going to call them out
for saying that, you know, they should get credit for something that
they opposed?  Or is he going to let that slide?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say we welcome the number of Republicans who
voted against the infrastructure bill coming around to recognize the
impact on their communities.  We’ve seen this playbook before, so
perhaps it shouldn’t come as a surprise.   
  
And I don’t think I can stand up here and rule out what the President is
or isn’t going to call out moving forward.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Hey, Jen.  The President spoke last week about Russia’s historic
concerns about loss of empire and encirclement.  So, my question is: If
you’re sending some thousands of U.S. troops to the Baltics or the
eastern flank, is there a chance that that will increase the risk of war
rather than reducing it?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, we’ve had troops in the eastern flank countries for
decades.  
  
Q    Right.  But we’re — it sounds like what’s being discussed is
sending more right now, at a time of real tension.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  And we have a sacred obligation to support the security of
our eastern flank countries.  I think it’s important to remember who the
aggressor is here.  It is not the United States.  It is not these
eastern flank countries.  It is Russia who has tens of thousands of
troops on the border of Ukraine.  They have the power to de-escalate. 
We would certainly welcome that.  
  
Q    And I know both you and the President spoke about the “little green
men” —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — infiltrators into the country.  Now that the British have put out
intelligence of a possible coup planned by Moscow in Ukraine, how would
the U.S. respond if that happened?  Would that trigger the same
sanctions that we’re talking about here?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I’m not going to get into intelligence matters, of
course.  We’ve been warning about Russian tactics like this for weeks. 
Reports of this kind of plotting are deeply concerning; if acted upon,
would constitute a severe escalation.  And, certainly, there would be
consequences.  
  
Q    And then, just one more on the sched.  I know we’ve all been
anticipating the President is going to hit the road.  Is the reason
there’s nothing on the public schedule these tensions with — involving
Ukraine, or another reason?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We — I expect we will have some travel very, very soon. 
We’re just looking to finalize the details.   
  
Go ahead, Kimberly.   
  
Q    Thanks.  A couple of questions.  First, a quick housekeeping
question.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  
  
Q    Can you confirm the Qatari Emir will be coming to the White House
at the end of the month and if the discussions will center around energy
supply to Europe?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I know there’s been discussion of that.  I don’t have final
confirmation of it.  I will work to see if we can get that to you after
the briefing.   
  
Q    Okay, perfect.  And then, as the administration weighs reinstating
the terrorist designation on the Houthis, is the President concerned
this could block humanitarian aid?  And why would the President consider
this if millions are at risk of losing assistance, given his policy of
upholding human rights?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, let me first say that we call on all parties to the
conflict to de-escalate and abide by their obligations under
international humanitarian law to ensure the protection of all
civilians, and participate fully in an inclusive U.N.-led peace
process.  All parties must commit to a peaceful, diplomatic solution to
ending the conflict and advance a durable resolution that improves the
lives of Yemenis and allows them to collectively determine their own
future.  
  
There have been dangerous escalations in days, which is, of course, why
you were asking.  These escalations only exacerbate a dire humanitarian
crisis and the suffering of the Yemeni people.   
  
We are deeply concerned by these reports, and we are continuing to
engage at a diplomatic level.  And our Special Envoy, Lenderking,
reaffirmed our unwavering commitment.  And he has been recently on the
ground pressing parties for de-escalation and protection for civilian
lives.  
  
Q    And then, quickly: A UK court is now allowing Julian Assange to
appeal his extradition to the United States.  The Justice Department, as
you know, isn’t commenting.  But what about the President?  He says
press freedom is critical for democracy, so why is he continuing to
pursue this case?  Is the reason that he’s pursuing this Trump-era case
because Julian Assange embarrassed the Democratic Party in 2016?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Again, this is under the purview of the dem- — the
Department of Justice, so I don’t have any comment from here.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you.  On the Palin-New York Times case — I know you can’t
maybe speak specifically to the case, but does the White House have any
concerns about threats to press freedoms, to press access, to the limits
of the First Amendment protection?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I obviously can’t speak to the case, so I appreciate you
saying that at the top.   
  
I will say that I think the President has shown that he respects the
value of the freedom of the press.  He obviously took a step earlier
this year to ensure there couldn’t be a replication of actions that had
been taken over prior administrations, as it related to journalists. 
So, I think that speaks to his commitment, but I don’t have any more
comments on the case.  
  
Q    And then, following off of Ed, I know you guys have forecasted,
potentially, policing reform —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — executive action.  Some civil rights advocates also want to see
additional voting rights executive actions.  Is there anything — any
details or any timeline for what you think the President, the White
House may do there, considering that it stalled in Congress?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, you know, the President is going to keep fighting
until his last breath, as you — as you’ve heard him say, on voting
rights because he thinks it’s so vitally important.  We did do an
executive order early on in the administration, which was quite
extensive and comprehensive, that is still being implemented.   
  
In terms of additional executive orders that would be possible, that we
have the authority to do, I don’t have anything to predict on — along
those lines.  But we are going to continue to fight to get federal
legislation passed.  We are going to continue to work with states to
ensure that there is proper protections.  And there is, of course, more
work ahead.  
  
Go ahead.   
  
Q    Yes.  There are currently at least 150 American military advisors
in Ukraine, including members of the Florida National Guard.  Are those
soldiers going to remain in Ukraine?  Are there contingency plans if
hostilities break out to remove them?  What’s their disposition?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I would point you to the Department of Defense to ask them
that question.  
  
Q    My colleague mentioned Afghanistan.  And one of the things that you
hear among Russian propaganda in Ukraine is that the United States is an
unreliable ally that is using Ukraine as a pawn.  And they point to the
U.S. withdrawal from Afghanistan as evidence that the United States
cannot be counted on.  How does the United States respond to that?  And
has the Afghanistan withdrawal complicated diplomacy in this regard?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  It has not, in our experience.  We — the President ended a
20-year war in Afghanistan — something he had talked about consistently
doing for some time as he was running for President and even before
then.   
  
I think our commitment to our NATO partners is clear.  Our commitment to
Ukrainians is clear.  We’ve sent more security assistance over the last
year than in any year in recent history.  We’ve been in constant
contact, as is evidenced by the President’s call this afternoon, with
our European partners as we work to ensure we’re in lockstep as we
approach the next stage and anticipate what President Putin may or may
not do.   
  
So, what I would say to that is: That’s sounds like the old Russian
propaganda playbook — something we’ve talked about in the past.  And I’d
encourage anyone to be mindful of that.  
  
Q    And then, finally, there’s negotiations going on in Congress for
Russian sanctions if they do take military action against Ukraine.  Does
the United States support Congress acting?  And are they involved in
these negotiations?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We are keeping — we are regularly updating and briefing
leaders in Congress and — about what steps are under consideration, what
the status is of things we’re seeing on the ground.  Obviously, we’ve
talked about a lot of this publicly as well.   
  
And we’ve also been clear that we have a — a severe sanctions package of
economic options that is under consideration should they decide to
invade.  
  
We also recently sanctioned a couple of individuals for their engagement
as well.   
  
But I don’t have anything in terms of the specific steps under
consideration.  We have our own severe steps that we are considering
here, and we’re keeping Congress abreast of that.  
  
Q    Does it help to have Congress involved?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, we’re working in lockstep with them.  We are briefing
them.  We are conveying to them what we’re thinking about and
considering, and, of course, getting feedback from them as well.   
  
Go ahead.   
  
Q    Thank you.  I recognize that the White House has said that they
have, you know, very severe sanctions that are prepared if Russia
invades.  Is there any thought to enacting sanctions before Russia
invades as a form of deterrence?  Or is that under consideration?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, we did announce a couple of sanctions — sets of
sanctions from the Treasury Department last week in response to their —
the involvement of a few individuals.  
  
We’ve also plussed up our security assistance packages that we’ve been
delivering to the Ukrainians, including recent deliveries over the last
couple of days.   
  
And obviously, as we were talking about earlier in this briefing,
there’s been discussions about how we can support the security of
eastern flank countries.  
  
But also, we are mindful of what we think is the most effective
deterrent.  And the severe economic sanctions pact is something that
would be — go far beyond what was done and what was on the table in
2014, including the consideration of imposing unprecedented export
control measures that would hit hard at President Putin’s ambitions are
part of the discussion.  And our assessment is that is most effective as
— as a deterrent tool and not as one we would do in advance.   
  
Q    Okay.  So, you’re saying the threat of the sanctions is the most
effective deterrent tool that —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Correct.  
  
Q    I have a question, just to follow up.  I know that, you know, you
were asked about Americans who are now in Ukraine.  I know you said that
there is no precedent, you know, outside of Afghanistan, for evacuations
in ca- — if there was, like, some type of military incursion by the
Russians.   
  
So, I just want to be clear: If Americans are still in Ukraine and
things start happening with Russia, are they pretty much on their own?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, we are conveying very clearly now that now is the time
to leave and that there are means to do that.  Of course, there’s
commercial airlines.  You can depart over land.  There’s obviously the
embassy there to provide assistance.   
  
And this is very similar to what we did in Ethiopia, Kazakhstan, and
many other countries over the course of the last several decades.   
  
But there is not an intention or a plan for any military evacuation.   
  
Q    And just quickly, in the — in the past, a call — another call with
Putin was still on the table.  I believe that the President was supposed
to talk with his advisors about that this weekend.   Like, what — have
any decisions been made about that?  Will there be another call or
another talk with Putin?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  The President remains open to leader-to-leader diplomacy, of
course.  He knows how effective that can be.   
  
But I don’t have anything to predict or preview at this point in time in
terms of a call between them.  
  
Hold on.  Let me just get to the last two, and then I’ll come back
around.  
  
Go ahead.   
  
Q    The President said last week that he has, basically, on a daily
basis, to work to keep unity in NATO.  How unified are NATO partners
when it comes to hard and meaningful sanctions against Russia?   
  
And what is the President’s assessment or the White House’s assessment
of the new German chancellor in that case?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I know that my — that our Secretary of State spoke to
this just yesterday.  And what I would note is that — as he said, that
we are confident the Germans share our concerns and are prepared to
respond swiftly, effectively, and in a united way to Russian aggression
against Ukraine.   
  
Germany is one of our closest allies.  In fact, we look forward of
course, to welcoming the chancellor here to the United States in
February.   
  
The Germans have said, as you know, that if Russia further invades
Ukraine, the — the future of Nord Stream 2 — the future of Nord Stream 2
would be in grave jeopardy.   
  
This is real leverage over Putin.  If Putin wants to see gla- — gas flow
through the pipeline, he cannot invade Ukraine.  The pipeline is, of
course, not operational, but that is often the context of how this
question is asked.  
  
I think what the President was conveying is that it doesn’t happen on
its own.  It requires work.  It requires conversations.  It requires
face-to-face diplomacy.  I think there’s been over 100 engagements that
senior members of his national security team and the President have
taken a part of — part in, in order to ensure that we are united and
strong as we — as we confront the threats posed by President Putin.  
  
Q    Will Germany need more work than other NATO partners?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I would say Germany remains one of our key partners and
allies.  And again, we are working in lockstep with them.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Yes.  Hi, Jen.  Senator Susan Collins is leading a working group
looking at reforming the Electoral Count Act so that during the counting
of the Electoral College, a Vice President could not reject one slate of
electors and, say, recognize a rival slate supporting a rival
candidate.  
  
I’m just wondering whether the White House has talked to either Senator
Collins or any other senators about this, and, given, shall we say,
recent history, whether the President supports reforming the Electoral
Count Act.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, we’ve never said we were opposed to it.  We are in
touch with a range of senators — I’m not going to detail who, but —
across the board, from se- — through senior members of the legislative
team, senior advisors to the President — about a range of steps that can
be taken.  
  
What’s important to note — and I’ve said it in the past, but I’ll just
reiterate it — that it does not take the place of, it is not a
replacement for the John Lewis Voting Rights Act or any of the voting
rights federal legislation we were working to get across the finish line
because they do entirely different things, including creating a baseline
for what the American people should expect and, frankly, demand in terms
of what kind of access they should have to participate in the voting
process.  
  
And, of course, the — the requirement that any state that has a history
of voter suppression would have to get approval from the Department of
Justice in order to change voting laws — the Electoral Count Act doesn’t
do that.   
  
But we are open to the conversations.  We’ve been participating in the
conversations.  But it’s — it’s not a replacement for.  
  
Q    Okay.  On a different subject, so much of the public discourse
about so-called “Havana Syndrome” has come from anonymous leaks.  And
I’m just wondering: How soon will the National Security Council release
their expert report on Havana Syndrome and — these anomalous health
incidents?  And will this report be made, you know, public in a fulsome
way?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Well, I know there’s been a recent CIA report that
talks about the findings of their interim analysis.  It does not — which
does not rule out that a foreign actor may be involved in a subset of
reported cases and affirms that the intelligence community will be
drilling down in its analysis on a subset of cases — the toughest
unresolved ones, of course, to try to determine whether a foreign actor
may be involved.  
  
There are a range of investigations and efforts underway across the U.S.
government.  And we continue to take every report of a suspected
incident <s>safely</s> \[seriously\].  
  
What’s most important is the President has aksed — has asked his
National Security team to ensure we are leaving no stone unturned in
ensuring that people who have been impacted receive the proper
healthcare they need.  
  
I can’t make a prediction of what a final release of a report would look
like.  I would really point you to the intelligence community on that.  
  
Q    Okay.  Just one last one.  Just yesterday, in D.C. — not far from
here, actually — there was an anti-mask —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — anti-lockdown rally where, you know, some of the rhetoric around
that was talking about Nuremberg-style trials to, you know, hold Anthony
Fauci to account, to go after the media for spreading lies, things like
this.  
  
I’m just wondering how the administration is going to respond to what
appears to be a growing intensity and potential for violence in the
anti-vax movement.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, we are well aware that there is a loud and vocal
minority, empowered through social media and media platforms that
proliferate disinformation, politicians who espouse conspiracy theories
and fundraise off of opposition to public health.  We know that. 

We also know that 87 percent of American adults have at least one shot. 
That’s the vast, vast majority.  And over 210 million Americans are
fully vaccinated. 

So our view is that it’s wrong, it’s dangerous, and it stands in the way
of a coordinated effort to save more American lives. 

Q    Something like only 25 percent — I don’t know what the number
(inaudible) is — closer to 25 percent have their booster.  Do you feel
like you guys are sort of losing the war when it comes to the messaging
on the importance of these types of public health measures, like getting
vaccinated?

MS. PSAKI:  Again, our view is that it’s a loud and vocal minority, but
still dangerous, still problematic. 

The fact that 87 percent of American adults — all those people, of
course, mathematically did not vote for Joe Biden — have had at least
one shot means we far surpassed where I think most people think we would
be. 

It’s difficult and challenging, of course, to get more people
vaccinated.  We know that.  And, of course, efforts that are dangerous
and wrong by groups like this are problematic, as is the spread of
misinformation on social media platforms, unfortunately out of the
mouths of some prominent officials.  All of that is problematic and
harmful. 

But again, I think we should be mindful of the large percentage of
people that have had one shot, 75 percent have had two shots. 
Obviously, our effort has been to get more people boosted, but if you’re
starting the process, that’s a good sign. 

Yeah. 

Q    Just two follow-ups.  And thank you for working the room and for
coming back.  Just two more details —

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.

Q    — on Ukraine.  Was there something specific that prompted today’s
meeting with those European leaders?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, it’s a part of our ongoing contingency planning and
discussions about what we are seeing, but also how we can help protect
and support their security as well.

Q    So it wasn’t like the intelligence report from the British over the
weekend or something prompted everybody to get together?

MS. PSAKI:  No.  Part of ongoing contingency discussions.

Q    And, obviously, he gets briefed on this in his daily intelligence
briefing.  We know he had this briefing over the weekend at Camp David. 
Can you give us any more detail or a sense of how often he’s — the
President is being briefed on Ukraine?  Who’s doing it?  Is he asking
for updates every hour?  You know, give us some sense of what’s going on
on this issue specifically.

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  I can tell you, from being in a lot of meetings with
him that are unrelated to Ukraine as well, that he is often asking for
updates and looking for updates from his national security team on where
things stand, how conversations are going on.  And that’s something he
regularly asks for. 

He’s seeing his team or members of his team every day.  Of course, there
are central members that you’re very familiar with who participate in
the PDB — Jake Sullivan and others.  And, of course, he’s regularly
talking with our Secretary of State, who has been front and center in
the diplomatic efforts.

Q    Thanks, Jen. 

MS. PSAKI:  Thanks, everyone. 

Q    Jen, do you have a date on the German Chancellor visit?  You just,
kind of, like, offhandedly mentioned (inaudible).

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah, we’ll — we’ll get it to you after the briefing.  Yes. 
Important — an important visit.

2:24 P.M. EST
