---
category: press-briefings
date: '2022-01-21'
modified_time: 2022-01-21 17:18:51-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/01/21/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-january-21-2022/
published_time: 2022-01-21 17:18:50-05:00
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Jen\_Psaki, January 21,\_2022"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

12:23 P.M. EST  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Hi, everyone.  Okay.  I just have two items for all of you
at the top. 

As you all saw, today the President delivered remarks on his
administration’s work to increase the supply of semiconductors, boost
manufacturing in America, and rebuild our supply chains here at home. 
These are steps that are going to help slow price increases, create
good-paying manufacturing and construction jobs across the country, and
strengthen our economy.  
  
For three decades, America has lost semiconductor manufacturing to
countries like China, but since President Biden took office that tide
has turned.  He’s prioritized investing in critical supply chains like
chips, and set out a clear plan to do so with his executive order.  And
he brought together labor and business to get it done.  
  
In doing so, we’ve catalyzed the industry’s outlook and gave them
confidence in America again, including Intel’s announcement today of a
$20 billion investment in Ohio and a total of over $80 billion invested
since he took office.  
  
This is the power the President is using to make it in America — to make
— to support his “Made in America” vision he’s putting into action.  
  
Those sorts of investments have never been more important, particularly
as we see a global shortage of chips driving up prices of cars right
here in America.  As we know, it accounts for about one third of the
inflationary pressure, with auto prices contributing as a big part of
that.  
  
Today’s announcement is just the latest progress in our efforts to ramp
up domestic manufacturing, tackle near-term bottlenecks, especially with
critical goods like semiconductors.  
Earlier this year, Samsung, Texas Instruments, and Micron announced $80
billion in investments in semiconductor manufacturing.  
  
Congress can accelerate this progress by passing the U.S. Investment and
Competition Act, also known as USICA, which the President has
long-championed and which he called for action on today.  This
bipartisan legislation puts historic funding behind unclogging our
supply chains, research and development, innovation, and advanced
manufacturing in every corner of America; and invests $52 billion in
making more chips, something that’s vital to address our supply chain
issues and lower inflation.

Tomorrow also marks the 49th anniversary of the Supreme Court’s landmark
ruling in Roe v. Wade.  Reproductive health care has been under extreme
and relentless assault ever since, especially in recent months.  It has
been nearly 150 days since women in Texas have been denied these
constitutional rights.  
  
We are deeply committed to making sure everyone has access to care and
we will defend it with every tool we have.  That includes continuing to
work with Congress to pass the Women’s Health Protection Act and codify
this fundamental right into law.  
  
In the meantime, the administration has taken a range of important
actions, from repealing the global gag rule to strengthening the Title X
Family Planning Program.  Today, HHS announced additional Title X
grants, and there will be further announcements coming from HHS later
today as well.  
  
This is a moment for us to recommit to strengthening access to critical
reproductive healthcare, defend — defending the constitutional right
established by Roe, and protecting the freedom of all people to build
their own future.

I know we have a short time window today.  We will keep up to date on
when everybody needs to gather, and I’ll try to get to as many people as
possible.  And otherwise, I’ll be here in my office.

Go ahead, Aamer.

Q    Thank you, Jen.  When the U.S. presents its written response to
Russia next week, is it willing to offer Russia something that goes
beyond the repeatedly stated positions, particularly when it comes to
Russia’s demands on guarantees regarding NATO’s future expansion?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We will put in writing, as you reference, the serious
concerns that we and other allies and partners have about Russia’s
actions, as well as ideas for how we might actually strengthen each
other’s sense of security going forward.

There are several steps we can take that are being discussed — all of
us, Russia included — to increase transparency, to reduce risks, to
advance arms control, to build trust.

We’re coordinating with our allies and partners.  And we anticipate that
Secretary Blinken and Foreign Minister Lavrov will meet again to
continue discussions.  And the President obviously is regularly briefed
every day by his team but will also be engaging with them tomorrow —
over the course of the weekend as well.

But as Secretary Blinken said today, he made clear to Foreign Minister
Lavrov that there are “certain issues and fundamental principles that
the United States and our partners and allies are committed to defend.” 
And “\[t\]hat includes those that would impede the sovereign right of
the Ukrainian people to write their own future.  There’s no trade space
there — none.”   
  
And we’ve said from the beginning that there are certain proposals that
will not be viable. 

But we will, of course, be responding, as you noted.  And I expect the
President will continue to discuss that over the next couple of days
with his team.  
  
Q    I wanted to ask another foreign policy question.  The strike in
Yemen today — 70 people were dead — are dead after the Saudi-led
coalition strike.  National Security Advisor Sullivan immediately
condemned the recent Houthi strike.  What’s the administration’s
immediate reaction to this strike?  And does this prompt any
reconsideration of weapons sales to Saudi Arabia?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have any prediction of that at this point in time. 
Obviously, we have — have a long history of a relationship with Saudi
Arabia, one where we raise issues where we have significant concerns on
human rights and on a range of issues, and one where we have had a long
security relationship that has been in the interest of the United
States.

In terms of this specific strike and a reaction: Obviously, anytime
there’s a loss of life — of innocent lives, that is a tragedy.  And we —
we are mindful of that and focused on that.

Obviously, you know our focus and the President’s focus, which is — from
the very beginning, he established new interim guidance concerning the
United States’ use of military force and related to national security
operations.  That’s how we operate here as the United States, which I
think is reflective of his — of his view.

But certainly the loss of life is always a tragedy.  And again, if
there’s anything new on — on our relationship, I’m happy to get that
from our national security team.  
  
Q    And just one last domestic — on tax season: With reduced staffing
levels, less funding authorization from Congress, the IRS already tasked
with distributing funds from several pandemic relief programs, many 2020
refunds haven’t been processed, how is the administration preparing to
ensure that this year’s tax returns will be processed in a reasonable
amount of time?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would first note that a lot of this predates this
administration.  And you touched on that, but I think that’s important
for people to understand.

As the Treasury Department and the IRS have said, the IRS right now has
an unacceptable backlog, and that customer service — and customer
service that people are receiving is not what the American public
deserves.  And the President is very mindful of that.

Many of those challenges are related to the pandemic but also due to
years of underfunding from Congress.  The agency has not been equipped
with the resources it needs to adequately serve taxpayers in normal
times, let alone during a pandemic.

The President has prioritized ensuring the IRS gets $80 billion of
stable, multi-year funding, resources it needs to best serve the
American people. 

As he said in his executive order in December, on customer experience,
the American people deserve an effective, equitable, and accountable
government that meets the needs of its people. 

So we would call on Congress to act now to give the IRS the funding it
needs to meet its goal. 

But again, in terms of addressing the backlog, it’s going to take some
work; it’s going to take some time.  And I think people need to
understand that they need funding, but they need to — but there’s a long
history here that’s led to this moment.

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Jen.  Secretary Blinken is leading — leaving Geneva and,
so far, does not appear that he has a firm commitment from Russia not to
invade Ukraine.  So, is another summit necessary at the leader level? 
Do you anticipate that President Biden will be having a summit with
President Putin and the President of Ukraine?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, let me first say that, you know, Secretary Blinken, as
you as you mentioned, met in Geneva today with Foreign Minister Lavrov
to share our serious concerns with the situation.

He warned Russia that we are prepared to respond to any Russian invasion
of Ukraine with swift and severe consequences, along with our allies and
partners.  We’re also ready to continue dialogue and diplomacy.

Ultimately, this has always been putting the choices up in front of
President Putin and the Russians.  Right?  It is up to them to decide
which path they are going to choose.

Secretary Blinken also conveyed we don’t expect — we didn’t expect any
breakthroughs to happen today.  But we are on a clear path, in terms of
understanding each other’s concerns.

The President will meet this weekend at Camp David with his national
security team to discuss the situation.  Some will be virtual, some will
be there in person.  We’ll also continue to consult with our allies and
partners, and we will respond next week in writing, as I conveyed.

In terms of the President and his role, you know, I think part of that
will be discussing with Secretary Blinken and his national security team
what the appropriate next steps are.  Of course, the President always
values leader-to-leader engagement, but we’ll determine if that’s the
appropriate next step.  
  
Q    So, he’s open to that —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  He’s always been open.  
  
Q    — as potential next step?  And that’s on the table?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  It may or may not be the next step it, and I can’t give you
a prediction of if and when it will happen.  But if that is a step that
is recommended and that we think would be effective at this point in the
discussion, of course, the President is always open to leader-to-leader
engagement.  
  
Q    Let me ask you about something Secretary Blinken said.  He told
Ukrainian TV that “whether it’s one Russian soldier or a thousand
crossing the border,” it’s an attack on Ukraine.  Does the President
agree with that statement?  Is that how he sees it?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  That’s the President’s policy that he has directed his
Secretary of State to continue to convey and what the President conveyed
to President Putin.  
  
Q    Let me ask you about the Electoral Count Act, if I could.  Based on
some of my conversations on Capitol Hill — and obviously, there seems to
be a growing consensus that there might be able to be some progress on
the Electoral Count Act — someone said to me that it could potentially
be a vehicle to get preclearance passed.  Is that something that this
White House thinks is a possibility, is a likelihood?  Is that what the
President’s going to be pushing for?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have any prediction of a process or a vehicle.  What
I would remind everyone of is that despite the fact that 16 Republicans
in the Senate have, in the past, supported the protection of voting
rights, they did not when given the opportunity.  
  
So, again, I would note that the Electoral Count Act is something we are
certainly open to, but it is not a replacement for.  And there are many
components of the voting rights legislation that are vital to protecting
people’s rights in this country, you know, including the fact that we
know that voter suppression largely impacts communities of color across
the country.  And one of the components of the voting rights legislation
the President has been fighting for is requiring states that have a
history of voter suppression to get approval to change their laws.  
  
And also, these — these voting rights legislation that we’ve been
fighting so hard for would also ensure that there’s a fundamental
baseline of what people can know and expect.  If you’re a mother of
three, you should be able to have many places you can drop off your
ballot or vote.  This is not a replacement for that.   
  
In terms of a vehicle or what’s possible, I don’t have anything on that
to read out for you.  
  
Q    And just very quickly — it seems like there are going to be some
discussions during break between lawmakers — bipartisan lawmakers about
the Electoral Count Act and where they can find consensus on this.  
  
What can we expect the President’s role to be, given that he’s been very
clear he is going to be taking a new strategy as it relates to reaching
out to the American public?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, the President can walk and chew gum at the same time. 
I think what people can expect is that he’s going to spend more of his
time engaging with, talking with the American people, and talking about
how far we’ve come and where we need to go from here.  
  
He also has a very talented and experienced team that’s already engaged
in a range of conversations with Congress.  
  
But I can tell you from spending a lot of time with the President and in
the Oval Office with him that sometimes he just picks up the phone and
calls a member of Congress or a senator when you’re sitting there.   
  
So, no one is suggesting that he is not going to engage with members. 
What we’re conveying and what you heard from him the other night is
that, as you look at the time he’s going to spend over the next couple
of months, it’s not going to be hours and hours behind closed doors in
the Oval Office.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, Jen.  Why would the U.S. agree to submit written answers
to Russia, given that it could undermine or be used to discredit the
U.S. negotiating position?  And is the U.S. asking for any written
responses from Russia?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, no one sees it that way from the U.S. negotiating team
or from our partners and allies around the world.  I think what we’re
engaged in here is seeing what’s possible as it relates to diplomacy.  
  
And as I noted, it’s not just — it’s not written answers like we’re
filling out a Q&A; we’re also going to convey what our concerns are and
reiterate a number of the strong statements you’ve heard the President
and Secretary Blinken convey very publicly.  
  
So, this is just a part of the diplomatic process and diplomatic
negotiations, and has been a standard part of the process often with
countries and nations where you have agreements but also
disagreements.  
  
Q    Does the President have a plan to evacuate Americans from
Ukraine?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  I know there have been a range of reports out this
morning, which is probably why you’re asking, Jacqui.  
  
I will say that, one, we are already at a Level 4 travel advisory for
Ukraine for COVID and have advised that U.S. citizens — have been
advising that U.S. citizens should be aware of reports that Russia is
planning for significant military action against Ukraine.  
  
We do conduct rigorous contingency planning, as we always do in the
event of the security — any security situation deteriorates in any
country around the world.  The State Department does that assessment.  I
would point you to them for any — any predictions or previews of any
steps they may take.  
  
Q    Is there any effort right now to get a handle on how many Americans
are in Ukraine?  Because I remember with Afghanistan that was sort of an
open question.  Is the dynamic different this time?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  It’s an open question around the world.  We don’t put a chip
in Americans when they go to countries around the world and track their
movements.  People can register with the State Department — that’s
something they do — or they may choose not to register, or there might
be people in any country around the world who are dual citizens who
haven’t lived in or have never lived in the United States.  
  
But the State Department would certainly have the number, in terms of
Americans who have registered with the State Department.  
  
Q    And then, is the President aware that he was caught on a hot mic
yesterday?  Why does he appear to be dismissing the idea of proactive
deterrence?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, the President certainly does not dismiss that idea,
considering he has taken a lot of steps including supporting and
approving the several sanctions that were put out by the Treasury
Department just a couple of days ago.  
  
I would note that the United States has delivered more security
assistance to Ukraine in the last year than any point in history.  In
the last year alone, we committed $650 million in security assistance to
Ukraine; in total, since 2014, we’ve committed $2.7 billion.  These
deliveries are ongoing, including today there’s more deliveries
coming.  
  
In addition to traditional security assistance, such as the Ukraine
Security Assistance Initiative, the President has authorized the
presidential drawdown authority to expedite lethal aid and meet
Ukraine’s emergency defense needs.  
  
We’ve also utilized third-party transfers, authorized by the State
Department, allowing U.S. allies and partners to provide U.S. origin
equipment from their inventories for use by Ukraine.  Specifically, the
State Department has given the go-ahead for three NATO Allies to rush
anti-armor missiles and other U.S.-made weapons to Ukraine.  
  
And finally, in identifying additional equipment held in DOD inventories
that can be delivered under the Excess Defense Articles program, among
other mechanisms, we recently notified Congress of our intent to deliver
<s>M-17</s> \[Mi-17\] helicopters.  
  
So, I would say the President is hardly waiting.  Actions are pretty
clear on that front.  
  
Q    And then, I wanted to ask you about something that you said
yesterday.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  
  
Q    You told me in response to — it was a Ukraine question: “It’s
important to remember who the aggressor is here.  The aggressor is
Russia and Putin.  They are building up military troops.  They are
pushing out misinformation in Ukraine.”  
  
So why does it seem like U.S. officials are so concerned about being
seen as escalating things, if Russia has created this whole crisis?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Because I think we want the American public and also the
global community to be clear-eyed about propaganda.  And they’re pushing
propaganda about Ukrainians.  Certainly, there’s propaganda pushed here
in the United States, but this is about a foreign — potential foreign
conflict.  It’s about the buildup of troops by one power that is a much
larger military power than the other on the border.  And we want to be
very clear with the public about the realities and the facts.  
  
Q    One final question on a different topic.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    On crime: Yesterday, the Manhattan DA clarified his memo about
downgrading certain crimes, and he said armed robberies, for instance,
will be prosecuted as felonies, violence against police officers won’t
be tolerated — clearing up some of the confusion around how that office
intended to prosecute crimes.  
  
Does the White House have a reaction to that or welcome that kind of
clarification given that these questions do keep resurfacing?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have any reaction from here to the decisions of a
local district attor- — I think a district prosecutor or a district
attorney.  
  
Q    DA.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  DA.   
  
I would say that the President — and he’ll talk about this — he’ll talk
about crime.  And you be- — asked me about this yesterday.  But you, I
think, can expect to hear him talk a little bit about crime during his —
during his remarks later this afternoon.  
  
The President believes that no one in this country should worry about
whether it’s safe to ride the subway or go to — or the bus or go to work
or walk home at night.  And that’s why he’s put more cops on the beat,
has stepped up efforts to get illegal guns off the streets, and invested
in proven community anti-violence programs.   
  
It’s also why he’s doubled federal support for community policing with
$300 million more for cities, plus another $700 million more to bolster
federal law enforcement.  
  
We’ve been working with mayors and local leaders on this, but I think
the President’s record, his commitment speaks for itself.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    First, just a quick follow-up to what you said about the U.S.
agreeing to put a response in writing.  Are you saying that the world
should not view that as the United States making a concession to
Russia?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I think you should see what it has to say.  But it’s part of
a negotiation.  We’ve been very clear about what we are not negotiating
on, which is the sovereignty of Ukraine, which is this question that is
continuously raised about Ukraine’s right to pursue joining NATO. 
That’s up to NATO countries to make that decision.  
  
And you’ve heard the President, Tony Blinken, and others say, time after
time, that we are not making any decisions about Ukraine without
Ukraine, no decisions about Europe without Europe.  
  
But negotiating takes many forms.  It takes forms where you’re in
person, it takes forms where there’s an exchange of written materials. 
That’s pretty standard and has been in diplomacy for decades.  
  
Q    I know you’ve been asked something similar, but yesterday, again,
Minority Leader McConnell said that the U.S. should send forces “to
shore up NATO’s Eastern Flank — not if and when Putin escalates, but
now, before it’s too late.”  So, what is your response?  Why — why
wait?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, first of all, we work in close coordination with our
NATO partners and Allies, and respond to what their needs are.  We’ve
been very clear and the President has been clear that we will support
whatever their needs are, should they have security needs.  But I don’t
have anything more to predict for you at this point in time.  
  
Q    And if I may ask one quick domestic question.  Just yesterday, you
were talking again about the idea of chunking off parts of Build Back
Better.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    If you could get 60 —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  “Chunking” — a bad word.  
  
Q    Oh, what —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I think maybe not the right phrase.  
  
Q    What’s a better word?  Splitting off, breaking apart, seeing if
there was a certain policy proposal that you maybe could get 60 votes
on.   
  
Anything else you can tell us about which policy proposal you guys might
feel hopeful about?  Is it universal pre-K?  Is it paid sick leave? 
Where do you guys feel like you might actually be able to get 10
Republicans?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, you tell me.  Is there a proposal where there are 10
Republicans?  I’m not aware of one.  Maybe there is.   
  
And there are some senators who have been out there saying they support
different components.  I know Senator Romney has said he supports or is
open to some component of the Child Tax Credit.  He’s not the only one. 
Are there 10 Republicans they can get to support that?  Great.  Let us
know.  We’re happy to have a discussion about it.   
  
That’s not what the President was talking about the other night.  What
the President was talking about is getting as much — although we’re very
open to that — but what — what the President was talking about is: We
have 50 votes in the Senate.  You need — we’re going to get as much — a
big mountain-size chunk, whatever you want to call it — as much as we
can of the Build Back Better agenda that we can get 50 votes for.   
  
There is clear agreement on some key goals — right? — lowering the cost
of childcare, negotiating the price of prescription drugs, lowering the
cost of eldercare, making sure the wealthiest Americans and companies
have to pay more, and the unfairness of the tax system.  So, what we
have to figure out is how much of that we can get and get approval
for.  
  
Q    So, it sounds like your focus is still on a reconciliation partisan
package, not —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Absolutely.   
  
Q    Okay.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  It’s not that it’s not — but, you tell me or your — your — I
know you’ve covered the Hill before.  But are there — are there 10
Republicans who are supporting?  We’d be happy to.  We don’t — we don’t
actually — it’s kind of a mystery.   
  
Q    I remember when Ivanka Trump was up there talking about —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well —  
  
Q    — paid leave.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, listen, if there are 10 Republicans who want to come
support the Child Tax Credit or something else, great.  They’re
welcome.  Let’s have a conversation about it.   
  
But, you know, that’s not — I don’t really know why no one — none of us
know why they’re ceding the ground on supporting the lowering the cost
of childcare to us, but so far, they have.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  Over the weekend, insurers started paying for at-home
tests or you could apply–  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — for reimbursement, but Medicare is not.   
  
I know that Medicare recipients can go through their doctors and some,
through Advantage programs, can get reimbursement.  But broadly, members
of the program can’t.   
  
And I’m wondering: Why not?  This seems like a group that would be —
that it would — you would most want to, sort of, be vigilantly testing
before going to gatherings, as they’re elder and therefore most at risk
for COVID.   
  
And especially since you said yesterday that you had all the money that
you needed to fight COVID right now, why isn’t the government paying for
these tests?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, there are a couple things that are happening;
you kind of glossed over some of them.  But let me give you some
specifics.   
  
So, state Medicaid and CHIP programs are required to cover at-home COVID
tests.  CMS has also issued guidance to states to effectuate this
requirement under Medicaid rules.  There are a lot of people who are
eligible for Medicaid out there, just to be clear, and the CHIPS
program.   
  
And people who are covered by Original fee-for-service Medicare —
Medicare pays for COVID diagnostic tests performed by laboratories, such
as PS- — PCR and antigen tests.   
  
For Medicare, we are also continuing to explore the best ways to provide
critical resources that will keep Medicare beneficiaries safe and
healthy, as you touched on.   
  
So, in addition to PCR tests, rap- — rapid tests PRs test — PCR tests
and rapid point-of-care antigen tests are available at 20,000 sites
across the country.  
  
We’ve also sent 50 million out to community health centers and rural
health centers.   
  
But we’re also exploring a range of options.  So, I’m not ruling
anything out.  But I just wanted to note there are a range of ways that
different forms of insurance, even if it’s not traditional private
insurance, have been covering not just in doc- — in doctor’s office, but
also at-home tests as well.  
  
Q    The Federal Reserve issued a report yesterday saying that they’re
weighing the possibility of launching a digital U.S. currency.  They
said, as part of the report, that they were asking for public feedback
and would be engaging with lawmakers.  So, I know that you normally
defer to the independence of the Fed, but this is an instance where
they’re openly soliciting, sort of, advice and consultation.   
  
And so, I’m wondering, you know, this is something that could impact our
competition with China.  It could have an impact in many ways on,
especially, low-income Americans.  So, does the President, does the
White House have an opinion on this sort of question for Fed?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I think it’s unlikely we’ll weigh in from here, as much as
they’ve asked for public comment.  But I can certainly check with our
economic team and see.  
  
Q    The Times, yesterday, had a report about some internal memos.  But
they also said that there was — that you guys were setting up executive
actions on clemency for drug offenders and police department reforms. 
Can you give any sort of time — can you confirm that that’s kind of
coming and give any sort of timeline about when we’ll be hearing from
the President on that?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  So, on clemency, the President has talked about — we have
talked a little bit about the President wanting to deliver on his
commitment to consider clemency requests for nonviolent drug offenders. 
That is something that’s ongoing.   
  
I don’t have anything — anything to preview for you in terms of the
timeline.  But, absolutely, the fact that we have every intention of
doing that is accurate — or he has every intention.  
  
On police reform, you know, I think we said at the time that we had —
we’re holding back on executive action because we wanted to give space
and room for the bipartisan negotiations to move forward.  Because, of
course, federal legislation is a — is — would be the preference because
it’s permanent.   
  
But we have been considering and looking at — I don’t have anything to
predict for you in terms of the timing, but we have been and are looking
at that through the policy teams.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  The President, on Wednesday, when he was talking
about keeping schools open, referenced the tens of billions of dollars
that were sent out in the COVID Rescue Plan.  And he said that not —
quote, “Not every district” used — “has used it as well as it should be
used.”  What states or school districts is he referring to there? 
Because he’s talked about this now twice in the last couple of weeks.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.   
  
(Reporter closes the door to the briefing room.)  
  
Well, thank you for that, first, because it’s freezing in here, I think
as everyone can confirm.  (Laughter.)  
  
But, I would say, Karen, so, one, what people should understand first is
98 percent of schools are open currently.  It fluctuates a little bit,
but 98 percent, as of today.  School districts, for the most part, are
spending federal relief funding, by and large, across the country.   
  
Part of what the President’s message he wanted to hammer home when he
spoke the other night — and as you said, he’s talked about this a little
bit — is to spend the money right now, for any school that has some left
or maybe some haven’t spent all of it.  And I’ll get to that in a
moment.  
  
And it’s important for any of these school districts to know that
different school districts spend it in different ways.   
  
So, in DeKalb County, in Georgia; and Desert Sands, in California —
they’re investing in safety measures like ventilation.  Cut Bank School
District in Montana are increasing pay and providing bonuses to help
retain educators and staff.  There’s lots of ways to use it and spend
it, for those who haven’t done it.  But we’re continuing to exert
pressure anywhere that hasn’t.   
  
So, in terms of — an example would be Florida, where they have done
little to — to distribute money to — little to no steps to distribute
money to state — across the state and to school districts.   
  
Now, part of it is you have to write a plan for how you’re going to keep
schools open to get the third tranche of money, and some have been
delayed in that.  But, right now, that’s an example of a state that
could do more.  
  
Q    And you said, you know, “We’re exerting pressure.”  How is the
White House — obviously, this money goes out to states.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    But how is the White House exerting pressure?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  The Department of Education —  
  
Q    (Inaudible.)  
  
MS. PSAKI:  — is really the primary conduit here.  But they have been
working and continuously in touch with school districts and states
across the country from the beginning.  
  
Q    And is there a way, from the Department of Education perspective,
to have a public accounting so Americans can see where that money is
going toward — the taxpayer money?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We, of course, work to ensure there’s no waste, fraud, and
abuse.  And we are very closely in touch with how it’s being spent with
states.  And I can certainly check and see if there’s a public
accounting available.  
  
Q    Just one quick one.  It’s been four days since COVIDTests.gov has
been live.  How many Americans have ordered tests so far?  And is the
plan still to start sending them out next week?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yes, they will be sent out very soon.  I don’t have an
updated number of how many have been ordered.  It’s changing
constantly.  I expect we will have a more of an update on that,
hopefully, by next week.   
  
I know we have to wrap up.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    On Build Back Better: First, does the White House need this bill to
be passed by State of the Union?  Is that the goal?  You know, Congress
kind of needs deadlines.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  We have not set a deadline on that.  We want to get it done
as quickly as possible.  
  
Q    Does it need to have a different name?  Speaker Pelosi suggests
that perhaps it does.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We’ll see.  Do you have any ideas?  
  
Q    Actually.  (Laughter.)   
  
MS. PSAKI:  You guys are all wordsmiths.   
  
Q    No, wait.  I’ve got a few more.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    On the Electoral Count Act —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yes.   
  
Q    — I know you’ve said that the President has many conversations on a
wide range of topics with lawmakers on the Hill.  But here’s the
question — it’s a bipartisan group right now: Is he going to let them
work on their own for the moment, or is he getting engaged with the
Manchin-Collins group now — as far as you know?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Our team is closely engaged with all of the members who are
discussing every component of any legislation that is being discussed on
the Hill, including this.  
  
Q    Okay.  And then one more.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    Sorry, one more.  Can —  
  
Q    Wait, no.  I was —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Let — let me go to Jeff because I — I just — I just don’t
want to run out of — we got to wrap up so you guys can gather.  
  
Go ahead, Jeff.  Sorry.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  This happened right before the briefing.  A federal
judge in Texas has ruled that President Biden’s mandate for federal
workers to be vaccinated cannot go through.  Do you have a reaction to
that?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, let me update you that 98 percent of federal
workers are <s>vaccinated</s> \[in compliance\].  That is a remarkable
number.  I would point you to the Department of Justice on any next
steps as this news, it sounds like, just broke.  But obviously, we are
confident in our legal authority here.   
  
Q    And you had an event with Intel today.  Is the White House
concerned about Intel’s presence in China?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  We have obviously spoken about concerns we have had.  I’m
not familiar with all of the specifics of their — of their engagement in
China, so I’d have to check with our team.   
  
We have not held back, I should say, if we have concerns about
engagement in parts of the country where there are human rights abuses. 
We also do, at the same time, work with a range of companies, even when
we voice our vocal — our concerns about issues that we don’t agree
with.   
  
Let me just do this last one.    
  
Q    Okay.  Another Intel question.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Okay.   
  
Q    So their plan for a $20 billion semiconductor facility in Ohio —
how can this be viewed as an immediate solution to the chip shortage if
the plants won’t fully be online until 2025?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think our view is it’s an important step forward in
ensuring that we have manufacturing capacity here in the United States
so that we don’t have a chip shortage in the future.  But we also — the
President called for the passing of USICA — I just reiterated at the top
of the briefing — so that we can get that $52 billion in semiconductor
investment to get more going now.  
  
Q    What’s the holdup with USICA in the House?  It passed the Senate
ruling.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I think Speaker Pelosi made clear she wants to move it
forward.  So we’re eager — the President is eager to have it signed.   
  
Okay.  Sorry, I got to wrap it up, guys.  You got to — you got to
gather.  I’ll see you soon.  
  
Q    Does the President like Meat Loaf?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t — I would — what the phrase?  “I would do anything
for love”?  Is that (inaudible)?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, that’s right.  (Laughs.)  You got it.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  He might say that.  
  
12:43 P.M. EST
