---
date: '2022-09-21'
modified_time: 2022-09-21 18:30:21-04:00
published_time: 2022-09-21 18:30:20-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/09/21/remarks-by-president-biden-at-the-global-funds-seventh-replenishment-conference/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at the Global Fund\u2019s Seventh Replenishment\_\
  Conference"
---
 
583 Park Avenue  
New York, New York

5:03 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, friends, fellow leaders — Bill, thank you for that
introduction — you know, I want to thank you all for being here — not
that you’re here because we invited you; you’d be here no matter what. 
And, Bill, thank you for your incredible leadership and commitment to
global health.

And to everyone participating in this conference — you know, to all of
you — I want to thank you.  Thank you for fighting for what counts. 
This is all about saving lives — there’s no ambiguity here — working
with partners to ensure that all communities are healthy and strong — at
least have a shot at being healthy and strong; that people everywhere
can live in dignity.

It’s hard to re- — maintain your dignity when you look at your child and
see that they are sick or ill with a disease that you can’t control. 
It’s difficult.  It shocks you.  And it deprives you of your dignity.

That’s why the United States is proud to be a founding member of the
Global Fund.  
  
And over the past 20 years, through our work together, it’s estimated
that the Global Fund has saved, as you heard before, 50 million lives
and dramatically — dramatically reduced the death rate of HIV,
tuberculosis, and malaria in the countries where it’s working.  (Clears
throat.)  Excuse me.  
  
Today, we’ve seen some historic pledges to keep building on this
incredible record: almost 1.6 billion — I think I got it right — euros
from France; 1.3 billion from Germany; 1 billion dollars from Japan; 1.2
billion dollars from Canada; <s>750</s> \[715\] million euros from the
European Commission; and significant increases from the private sector,
Qatar, Republic of Korea, and from nations that themselves receive
Global Fund grants, like Malawi and Niger, also contributed.  
  
And as I pledged to all of you, the United States will donate $1 billion
for every $2 billion committed by the rest of the world.  
  
So that means we’re going to work — (applause) — that means we’re going
to work with our partners in Congress to contribute another $6 billion
to the Global Fund — (applause) — bringing — bringing the overall global
pledge, as of today, to $14 billion.   
  
With these incredible contributions, we’ve succeeded, through our mutual
and continuing commitment, to deliver one of the largest fundraising in
global health — fundraisers in global health history.  And these
billions are expected to deliver a 31-fold return on investment —
31-fold return on investment.  
  
And in other words, for every dollar to fight these diseases, we expect
$31 in health gains and economic returns, which also advances our
progress toward meeting the goal of Sustainable Development Agenda.  
  
So let’s challenge ourselves to keep going and do even more.

It’s an investment that will save another 20 million lives, reduce
mortality from these diseases another 64 percent in the next four
years.  
  
It will support frontline health workers, improve — and, by the way,
they deserve special, special, special thanks for what they’ve done,
especially when it was much more dangerous than it is today. 
(Applause.)  
  
It will improve surveillance capabilities; build stronger, more
resilient health supply chains; and increase innovations to reach those
most in need.  And it’s going to help prevent and respond to
gender-based violence, and advance sexual and reproductive rights and
health outcomes for people around the world.

You know, as we — as we work together, the United States will also
continue to advance our leadership through our own health investments in
PEPFAR, the President’s Malaria Initiative, and efforts to fight TB —
TB.  
  
These investments, working in tandem and further amplifying the work of
the Global Fund, have helped turn the HIV/AIDS around and develop the
world’s first vaccine for malaria.  
  
Here in the United States, where almost 1.2 million people are living
with HIV, we’re implementing our new National HIV/AIDS Strategy to
accelerate and strengthen our national response to the HIV epidemic. 
We’re putting equity at the core of our efforts.

We have to ensure that everyone — no matter who they are, who they love,
where they come from — can access care and treatment they need, period. 
(Applause.)  And, folks — and that they’re treated with the dignity they
deserve.   
  
Everyone should be able to lead a healthy, productive, and fulfilling
life.  That’s our goal.  
  
So thank you all for stepping up, especially in a challenging global
economic environment.   
  
And I ask you to keep it going.  Let’s finish this fight together.  Now
is the moment to accelerate our efforts to reduce health inequities and
to address barriers to access, including gender and human rights
barriers; to build a more inclusive healthcare systems to leave no one
behind; to end AIDS, tuberculosis, and malaria for good.  
  
Let’s demonstrate our collective power to take on challenges that matter
most in people’s lives and deliver progress.  We have so much — so much
to do, so let’s get to work.  And thank you all for all you’re doing.  
  
God bless you all.  (Applause.)   
  
5:09 P.M. EDT
