---
date: '2022-09-30'
published_time: 2022-09-30 22:09:28-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/09/30/remarks-by-president-biden-and-first-lady-jill-biden-at-a-hispanic-heritage-month-reception/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden and First Lady Jill\_Biden at a Hispanic Heritage\
  \ Month\_Reception"
---
 
East Room

4:10 P.M. EDT  
  
THE FIRST LADY:   Thank you, Chaplain.  I know that all of our hearts
are with those who are affected by the hurricanes.  
  
So, good afternoon.

AUDIENCE:  Good afternoon.

THE FIRST LADY:  During Hispanic Heritage Month, we often lift up the
stories of big moments and the people who made them.  Those who shouted
until they were heard, those who created movements, whose stories end up
in our history books.  
  
But behind the legendary moments and people, there are <s>never</s>
names that \[never\] make the headlines — parents and siblings,
grandparents and neighbors, teachers and mentors — whose everyday
decisions shape our lives and ripple forward, whose stories and legacies
are left behind in the hearts of all they touched.  
  
Yes, our history is found in the big moments, but it’s also found in
little ones as well.    
  
In the warmth of the hazy afternoon light, when you wrap yourself in the
blanket that your grandma made — probably much like today — (laughter) —
the one whose scent brings her memory to life.  
  
In the words you can hear in your parents’ voice that tell you to be
brave when it’s the last thing you want to do.  
  
It’s these small moments, tiny acts that become a part of who we are,
that guide us forward and pull us home; that add up to a history bigger
than any one of us.  
  
That history is here today.  As politicians and poets, as artists and
organizers, you shape our nation each and every day.  And Joe and I are
proud to stand beside you to celebrate your victories, big and small.  
  
This week, Ada Limón, the 2022 National Poet Laureate — the first Latina
— (applause) — the first Latina National Poet Laureate — helped me host
an event here for student poets.

And weren’t those students just amazing, Ada?  Where are you?

MS. LIMÓN:  Back here!

THE FIRST LADY:  Oh, hi!  (Laughter and applause.)  Hey!  (Applause.)  
  
Okay, who put her in the back?  (Laughter.)

And what I love about Ada’s poetry is how she sees the sacred in the
mundane moments of our lives.  
  
In her poem “Dead Stars,” she writes:  
  
*“Look, we are not unspectacular things.*  
*We’ve come this far,*  
*survived this much.*  
*What would happen if we decided to survive more?*  
*To love harder?”*  
  
Beautiful, right?  (Applause.)

You, all of us, we are not unspectacular things.  
  
As we write our future, we do it together, in the little moments and in
the big ones and, most of all, with love.  
  
So, thank you for joining us today and welcoming — and welcome to the
White House.  (Applause.)

And now, I’d like to introduce our very spectacular President, Joe
Biden.  (Applause.)

THE PRESIDENT:  Bless me, Father, for I’m about to sin.  (Laughter.) 
How in the hell do you follow that?  (Laughter.)  I — she’s better at
everything.

And I know that all our hearts are with those affected by the hurricanes
today.  We’ve mentioned that before, but it’s real.

I’ve been constantly on the phone, for the last week, with every — every
local official, the governors of both states.  There’s a lot — and I
know a lot of you have friends not only in Florida but Puerto Rico that
— we still have so much more work to do in Puerto Rico.

And I just — this reception falls on very, very difficult times.  A lot
of you probably have friends that are in the midst of the eye of these
hurricanes and the flooding.  And the — and they’re in our prayers.

You know, I gave an update to the country about where things stand
today.  We’re doing everything we can in search and rescue, recovery,
and rebuilding.  And I am committed and the country is committed to do
whatever it takes as long as it takes.  We’re going to be there.

Jill and I also want to thank you for being here today.  You reflect the
best our nation has to offer — public servants, advocates, artists,
innovators, organizers, labor leaders.

And I want to recognize our congressional partners who are here today. 
Pete — where are you? — the vice chairman of the — there you go, Pete. 
I didn’t see you there.  (Applause.)  Good to see you, Pete.  The vice
chair of the House Democratic Caucus.  Raul, chair of the Hispanic
<s>Black</s> Caucus.  There you are, Raul.  Good to see you, man. 
(Applause.)  Hiding behind —  
  
Earlier this month, I attended the annual dinner of the Congressional
Hispanic Caucus Institute along with so many of you here today.  And it
was a powerful night celebrating pride and possibilities, heritage, and
history.  
  
And that’s what I see in all of you in this room tonight.  
  
You’re proof that Hispanic history is American history.  It’s American
history.  (Applause.)  As a matter of fact, as they say in — “y’all”
were here before we were.  (Laughter and applause.)

I’ll never forget — oh, I won’t get into that.  (Laughter.)  
  
But our — our ambassador to — to Mexico — good friend and former
governor — I remember talking to him and he was saying — you know, I was
saying, “Well, you know, this is — I know you’re doing such a…”  I said,
“Look…”  He said, “My family has been here for 400 years.”  (Laughter.)

Look, it’s a history that beats in the soul of our nation and that lives
in the dreams of those who’ve only just arrived and in the legacy of
families who’ve been here, like the ambassadors, for generations.  
  
And for that reason, Congress should take action to honor the Latino
community and women with their own museums on the National Mall —
(applause) — it’s time — as a reflection of the important role each
plays in the fabric of our nation.  
  
You know, in moments big and small, America is about how we choose to
see one another, and we choose to treat everyone with dignity and
respect that they deserve.  That’s what we’re about.  That’s the vision
America — the vision that we have to choose together.  
  
And that’s why, in the depths of the pandemic, we fought to pass the
American Rescue Plan, expanding the Child Tax Credit and slashing
\[child\] poverty by over 40 percent among Latinos, at the lowest rate
on record.  
  
Under the — Secretary Cardona, we safely reopened our schools —
absolutely necessary for all our kids, including the one in four
children in public schools that are Latino.  One in four.  Twenty-fi- —
almost <s>26</s> \[28\] percent.  (Applause.)  
  
Tell those who have a different view of this to “Hang on, man.  We’re
coming.”  (Laughter.)

Look, and we’re canceling $10,000 in student debt, $20,000 if you had a
Pell Grant — (applause) — for tens of millions of Americans making less
than 125 grand.  And, look, that means millions of Latino student
borrowers with federal loans will see the debt forgiven.  A
gamechanger.  It’ll be a gamechanger.

And under Sec- — under Secretary Becerra, we’ve helped more Latinos gain
health insurance than ever before.  And in — (applause) — in the face of
the Supreme Court’s extreme decision on Dobbs, we’ve taken <s>access</s>
\[action\] to protect access to healthcare for women and their
fundamental rights.  (Applause.)  
  
This — this is going to impact — going to impact Latinos all across
America.

And under the Small Business Administrator Guzman, Latinos are now
starting new businesses at the fastest rate that’s occurred in 10
years.  (Applause.)  Look, we’ve created nearly 10 million jobs since we
came to office — the biggest one-year drop in Hispanic unemployment ever
in America.  (Applause.)  
  
And together with members of Congress here, we also passed the
Infrastructure Law to modernize roads, bridges, ports, public transit.  
  
It just — to replace poisonous lead pipes so every child in America can
drink water out of their faucet or at school at the fountain and have
clean water.  (Applause.)  
  
Look, folks, these are basic things.  This is the United States of
America, for God’s sake.  
  
And we passed the historic Inflation Reduction Act, slashing the cost of
prescription drugs, health insurance, home energy, and finally — finally
making big corporations begin to pay their fair share a little bit. 
(Applause.)     
  
Look, and the law makes the biggest, biggest climate investment ever —
(applause) — bringing environmental justice to frontline — and bringing
environmental justice to the frontline and fence-line communities.  
  
Look, along with Secretary Mayorkas, I’m also committed to fixing our
immigration system for good — (applause) — providing a pathway for
DREAMers.  Can you imagine — maybe some of you were DREAMers.  It’s like
you — I don’t know what people expect to say when your mom has taken you
across the Rio Grande and say, “No, Mom, I’m staying here.  I’m not
going.  I’m going to make my choice.”  Come on.  This is bizarre.  The
temporary status holders, farm workers, and essential workers as well.  
  
We have to do more to modernize our laws so businesses can get workers
they need and families don’t have to wait decades — decades to be
together.  (Applause.)  
  
A few days after the massacre in Uvalde, Texas, Jill and I visited the
school’s memorial.  Spent over four and a half hours with the family
members.  We stayed and spoke to every single family member in that
room.  We attended services at Sacred Heart Catholic Church.  
  
Just as we were leaving, a grandmom — as we were leaving the church —
who had lost her granddaughter gave me a handwritten note that I didn’t
get a chance to read in the aisle until I got out of church.  And it
said, “Mr. President, please, erase the invisible line that’s dividing
our nation.”  “Erase the invisible line that’s dividing our nation.”  
  
Whether it’s for the people of Uvalde or El Paso or the places that
never make the news, together with you, we are going to erase — erase
that invisible line.  We have to do that.  There’s no option.   
  
Together, we passed and signed the first meaningful gun safety law in 30
years.  Now we’re not stopping there.  (Applause.)  
  
I’m coming back.  We are going to ban assault weapons again. 
(Applause.)  I did it once, and I’m going to do it again.   
  
Let me close with this: I’ve always said America is defined by one
word.  When I — I’ve spent more time with Xi Jinping than any world
leader has.  And we were in the Tibetan Plateau, he and I, and he turned
to me — and I had an interpreter and he had a simultaneous interpreter
as well — and he looked at me and he said, “Can you define America for
me?”  I said, “I can, in one word: possibilities.”  Anything is possible
here.  Anything.   
  
We’re the only nation built on an idea.  Every other nation is built
based on geography, ethnicity, or religion or whatever.  But we’re the
only one based on an idea.   
  
We’ve never fully lived to the idea — lived up to the idea, but we’ve
never walked away from it.  “We hold these truths to be self-evident
that all men and women are created equal, endowed by their Creator with
certain inalienable rights — life, liberty.”  We say it all the time,
but that’s who we are.  That’s the nation.  We are a nation of
immigrants.  A nation of immigrants.   
  
And the possibilities that exist are no more evident anywhere than in
the Hispanic community in the United States.  I mean it sincerely. 
Think about it.  Nowhere more evident.  Courage and character that
reflects who we are as a nation — a great nation — because we are a good
people.  We are a good people.   
  
So all I want to say is God bless you all.  May God protect our
troops.   
  
And I hope you enjoy the reception.  And let’s go get ‘em.  Okay? 
(Applause.)  Thanks.   
  
There’s food at the other end.  We have food at the other end. 
(Applause.)  We have food the other way, right?  I think so.  So you can
stay here and not eat or you can go down the hall to the other end, and
there’s food.   
  
Again, all — by the way, I just want to say this again.  Think about
it.  Think about it.  Not a joke.  When in American history has there
been a circumstance —  
  
Can you turn this mic on for me?  
  
When in American history has there been a circumstance where one
ethnicity has the potential to have such a profound impact on the
direction of a country?  Not a joke.  Twenty-six percent of every single
child who’s in school today <s>speaks Spanish</s> \[is Latino\].
 Twenty-six percent.  
  
We’ve had large waves of immigration before.  But the thing is, you just
have enormous opportunities to make this country so much better.  And I
really mean it.  I really mean it.   
  
And so, as my father would say, “Let’s go get ‘em.”  Thank you. 
(Applause.)   
  
4:26 P.M. EDT
