---
date: '2022-09-22'
modified_time: 2022-09-22 16:47:27-04:00
published_time: 2022-09-22 16:47:26-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/09/22/remarks-by-president-biden-on-hurricane-fiona-recovery-efforts/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on Hurricane Fiona Recovery\_Efforts"
---
 
FEMA Region 2 Office  
New York, New York

2:15 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT:  Good to see you all.  Look, I’m here because we’re
laser-focused on what’s happening to the people of Puerto Rico again. 
We were just talking — almost to the day, almo- — at least to the week,
and — five years after Hurricane Maria, which was devastating. 

And as I told you, Gov, when we spoke earlier this week, we’re surging
federal resources to Puerto Rico, and we’ll do everything — everything
we can to meet the urgent needs you have.  And we know they’re real and
they’re significant.  And we’re there.  And, I know, bad joke, “I’m from
the federal government, and I’m here to help.”  But we really are.

And I think we — I hope you’re satisfied with the response so far. 

We’ll be with the Puerto Rico — the folks of Puerto Rico now and until
this is done and until we recover.  And my wife and I, we talked about
it last night.  We pray for the — I know the death toll is up a little
bit — but, you know, all the people displaced and all the people who are
just scared to death, knowing what happened before.  Especially if
you’ve been through it last time, it’s got to be incredibly
intimidating.

And on Sunday, even before the storm made landfall, I approved that
declaration of disaster — the emergency disaster declaration, bringing
the full force of the federal government to respond, knowing full well
the catastrophic effects — how catastrophic they could be on communities
that haven’t even fully recovered from the last time, Gov, as you and I
talked about.  Thank you.

And, look, I asked FEMA Administrator Criswell — she’s right here with
me — to go down herself and assess the situation and make sure the
people of Puerto Rico have everything — everything they could possibly
need that we can provide to help them get through this.

And hundreds of FEMA and federal personnel are now there, including
search and rescue teams, bilingual Disaster Survivor Assistance Teams,
and the U.S. Corps power restoration experts.

And I especially want to thank the local first responders.  I want to
say that again — the local first responders.  I want to thank them —
including the Puerto Rican National Guard, who have been working around
the clock.

And disasters are traumatic for survivors, but they’re also traumatic
for responders.  It’s real.  And to experience so many disasters in the
course of five years, it takes its toll.

FEMA is making crisis counselors available across Puerto Rico —
survivors and responders alike.  And so please take advantage of these
resources.  It’s okay to ask for help.  This is a place you should ask
for help.  There’s nothing — there’s no credit for not asking for the
help.  Ask for help if you need it.

And I want to thank the New York congressional delegation and
Congresswoman González-Colón for her being here today.  In particular, I
want to thank the governor, Governor Hochul, and Mayor Adams who are
here.  They’ve sent state troopers, emergency responders from New York
to help brothers and sisters in Puerto Rico.  And there’s a lot of them,
I think.  Maybe New York has about the largest Puerto Rican population
in the country.  And the state, I think, has the second largest, or
close to that, if I’m not mistaken.

GOVERNOR HOCHUL:  Over a million.

THE PRESIDENT:  Over a million.

And we’re all in this together, I promise you, Gov.  This — we don’t
view this as some distant problem.

And power is slowly returning, but it’s returning.  And more help is
coming from the utilities and the mainland.  And we got water and other
supplies available as well.  And there’s still dozens of shelters that
are still available and open.

But too many homes and businesses are still without power, without clean
drinking water.  And yesterday, at the governor’s request, I immediately
approved an expedited major disaster declaration to provide individual
and public assistance to help people and communities recover from it.

And this declaration is going to — we’ll get federal resources there
quickly.  And it’s going to help people start rebuilding their lives.

And as part of the declaration, I’m announcing today that I’ve
authorized 100 percent — 100 percent federal funding for —

ADMINSTRATOR WARRINGTON:  Yes.

THE PRESIDENT:  — debris removal, search and rescue, power and water
restoration, shelter and food for the whole month.  One hundred
percent. 

So there’s no cost at all, Governor, to you.  I mean, there’s a
significant cost, I know — emotional cost and others.  But whether it’s
— it’s 100 percent funding for debris removal, search and rescue, power
and water restoration, and shelter and food for the month.

And to the people of Puerto Rico who are still hurting from Hurricane
Maria five years later, I know that we’re — they — they should know that
this — we are with you.  We’re not going to walk away.  We mean it.

And I like the fact that Deanne — she’s going to speak in a minute — but
had prepped for this as well — getting — knowing what had to be done.

And so, you know, going forward, Gov, I told you: You have the phone
number.  You can call me, personally, anytime.  And I mean it.

This is really, really, really important to us.  Really important to
us.  And so we’re not going —

GOVERNOR PIERLUISI: Thank you.

THE PRESIDENT:  — to walk away.

And with that, let me say God bless the people of Puerto Rico and — and
our troops. 

And I’m going to now turn it over to the FEMA Administrator.

2:22 P.M. EDT
