---
date: '2022-09-20'
published_time: 2022-09-20 15:22:49-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/09/20/remarks-by-president-biden-on-the-disclose-act/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on the DISCLOSE\_Act"
---
 
Roosevelt Room

1:24 P.M. EDT  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Folks, sorry to keep you waiting.  I apologize.   
  
Good afternoon.  I’m about to head to New York for the annual U.N.
General Assembly meeting.  I have a number of meetings while I’m there. 
But before I go, I want to speak with you very briefly about a vote in
Congress this week that addresses a serious problem facing our
democracy, in my view.  
  
I’ve — I’ve proposed much earlier on that we should just publicly fund
all of our elections, but I’m not — but I don’t have the support for
that position.  But there’s a second position that is very good, and
that is the role of money — money in politics and how we can begin to
solve that problem.  
  
There’s — there’s something I’ve always — it’s something I’ve always
cared about.  And at its best, our democracy serves all people equally,
no matter wealth or privilege.  
  
But here’s the deal: There’s much — too much money that flows in the
shadows to influence our elections.  It’s called “dark money.”  It’s
hidden.  Right now, advocacy groups can run ads on issues attacking or
supporting a candidate right until Election Day without exposing who’s
paying for that ad.  
  
Too often, powerful special interests use front groups to run these ads
to win at any cost.  Even foreign entities that aren’t allowed to
contribute to political campaigns use dark money loopholes to try to
influence our elections.   
  
And here’s just one recent example.  A conservative activist who spent,
as was his right, decades working to put enough conservative justices on
the Supreme Court to overturn Roe v. Wade now has access to $1.6 billion
in dark money to do more damage and — from our perspective — and
restrict more freedoms.  As far as we know, that’s one of the biggest
dark money transfers in our history.   
  
And here’s the deal: The public only found out about this $1.6 billion
transfer because someone tipped off some of your reporters; otherwise,
we still wouldn’t know about it.  But now we know, and there’s something
we can do about it.  
  
This week, the Senate is going to vote on the <s>Disclosure</s>
\[DISCLOSE\] Act.  House Democrats already approved this act.  And
Senator Sheldon Whitehouse of the — of Rhode Island helped write this
bill as well.  
  
Here’s some of the things it would do: Advocacy group — advocacy groups
that run ads to influence elections would have to disclose any
contribution above $10,000 that they receive.  And foreign entities
would be banned from making any contributions for these ads, period.  
  
Republicans should join Democrats to pass the <s>Disclosure</s>
\[DISCLOSE\] Act and get it on my desk right away.  And dark money has
become so common in our politics, I believe sunlight is the best
disinfectant.  And I acknowledge it’s an issue for both parties.   
  
But here’s the key difference: Democrats in the Congress support more
openness and accountability.  Republicans in Congress so far don’t — so
far, don’t.  I hope they’ll come around.  
  
They should follow the lead of Republican governors in state
legislatures in Tennessee and Wyoming that have passed disclosure laws. 
Let’s remember: Getting dark money out of our politics has been a
bipartisan issue in the past.  My deceased friend, John McCain, spent a
lot of time fighting for campaign finance reform.  For him, it was a
matter of fundamental fairness.  And he was 100 percent right about
that.   
  
Ultimately, this comes down to public trust.  Dark money erodes public
trust.  We need to protect public trust.  And I’m determined to do
that.  
  
So I want to thank you all very much and hope that Congress, the Senate,
will act on this in a favorable way so I can sign that law — into law as
rapidly as possible.  Thank you.  
  
Q    Mr. President, why is the border more overwhelmed under your
watch?  
  
Q    Mr. President, have you spoken to Mitch McConnell about rallying
Republican votes?  
  
Q    Mr. President, on the border, why is it more overwhelmed under your
watch?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Can’t you holler louder?  I’m sorry, I didn’t hear.   
  
Q    On the border, why is the border more overwhelmed under your watch,
Mr. President?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Because there are three countries that are — never have
— there are fewer — fewer immigrants coming from Central America and
from Mexico.  This is a totally different circumstance.   
  
What’s on my watch now is Venezuela, Cuba, and Nicaragua.  And the
ability to send them back to those states is not rational.  You could
send them back and have them — we’re working with Mexico and other
countries to see if we can stop the flow.  But that’s the difference.   
  
Thank you.  
  
Q    What more can your administration be doing, Mr. President?  
  
Q    Ron DeSantis — it looks like he’s sending migrants to Delaware.  Do
you have any comment or response to that, sir?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  He should come visit.  We have a beautiful shoreline.   
  
1:28 P.M. EDT
