---
date: '2022-09-15'
published_time: 2022-09-15 22:03:45-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/09/15/remarks-by-president-biden-at-the-united-we-stand-summit/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at the United We Stand\_Summit"
---
 
East Room

3:45 P.M. EDT  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Susan.  Thank you.  Please be seated.  Thank
you for that introduction.   
  
And, you know, many of you have lost parts of your heart and soul
yourselves.  And you know that although moments like this, where we are
working like the devil to see to it other people don’t go through the
same thing, as Susan knows, it just brings back everything.  It’s hard
to stand up here when — and recall exactly what happened without it all
flooding back as if it’s happening again.    
  
So, Susan, thank you not only for your words, but for your courage.  I
really mean it.  Thank you, thank you, thank you.  (Applause.)   
  
Through your pain, you’ve found purpose worthy of the life that Heather
lived and purpose to help us stand united as she did.  
  
And that’s what so many of you have done for so long in your own way as
survivors of hate-fueled violence, family, victims, you know, allies and
advocates, mayors and community leaders, members of Congress.  Your
presence is a testament to the truth that we must and we can come
together regardless of our backgrounds, our beliefs.   
  
We have to stand united against hate-fueled violence — because it’s
real, and you know it better than anyone — to affirm that an attack on
one group of us is literally an attack on all of us.   
  
I sincerely appreciate all of you joining this first-of-its-kind summit
held here in the White House.  And I want to thank Ana Navarro and Lisa
Ling for participating.  
  
And I want to thank the civil rights organizations that called for such
a summit after the evil came to Buffalo four months ago: the National
Urban League; the Anti-Defamation League; the Asian Americans Advancing
Justice; the League of United Latin Cit- — Latin American Citizens; and
the National Action Network.  
  
Jill and I — my wife Jill and I — and she’s teaching; that’s why she’s
not here — traveled to Buffalo to grieve with families and deliver a
message from deep in our nation’s soul: In America, evil will not win. 
It will not prevail.  (Applause.)  Hate will not prevail.  And white
supremacists will not have the last word.  And this venom and violence
cannot be the story of our time.  
  
So we convened this summit to make clear what the story of our time must
be.  It has to be a story in which each and every one of us has a vital
role to play.  A story — a story with this message from the White House:
United — united — united we stand.  
  
Look, I decided to run for President, as Susan knows, after
Charlottesville — literally, not figuratively.  I had no intention of
running, I give you my word.  I was teaching and I thought that was the
best thing for me to do — as Chris knows, my colleague from Delaware.   
  
But Charlottesville changed everything, because I believed our story is
to unite as people of one nation and one America.  When those folks came
out of those — that field carrying torches — the United States of
America — carrying torches, chanting the same antisemitic bile that was
chanted in Germany in the early ’30s, accompanied by white supremacists
holding Nazi flags.  And I thought to myself, “My God, this is the
United States of America” — Senator — “How could it happen?”  
  
No, I — I really mean it.  As my friends in the movement — Civil Rights
Movement know, I got involved in politics because of civil rights as a
kid.  
  
But the idea — the idea that in the first quarter of the 20th century
we’d have people come out of fields carrying torches, Nazi flags and
banners, chanting the bile, accompanied by white supremacists, David
Duke and his crowd.  And an innocent young woman is killed.  
  
When the last guy was asked what did he think, he said he thought there
were some “fine people on both sides.”    
  
Look, folks, there are core values that should bring us together as
Americans.  And one of them is standing together against hate, racism,
bigotry, and violence that have long haunted and plagued our nation.  
  
Another core value is standing united, for the enduring source of our
strength is the idea of America.  We’re the most unique nation in the
world.   
  
Every other nation is based on ethnicity, geography.  In America, we’re
based on an idea — literally, not figuratively — an idea.  “We hold
these truths to be self-evident, that all \[women and\] men are created
equal…endowed by the\[ir\] Creator…” et cetera.   
  
We’ve never lived up to that, but we never before walked away from it. 
We never walked away from it. 

That’s why it’s so important what you’re doing.  It’s so important that
we keep hollering.  It’s so important for people to know that’s not who
we are. 

You know, I do a lot of foreign travel in my business.  (Laughter.)  I
spend an awful lot of time and I know virtually every head of state. 
When I went to the first G7 meeting in England of the largest
democracies in the world, I sat down and I said — you know and have
heard me say this before, Rev — I said, “America is back.”  You know
what these leaders said around a small table with no press there?  “For
how long?  For how long?”  
  
The combination of January the 6th, what they saw in Charlottesville:
That’s not America, not who we are.  
  
The idea of America is it guarantees that everyone — everyone is treated
with dignity and equality.  An idea that ensures an inclusive,
multi-racial democracy.  An idea that we give no safe harbor — none — to
hate.   
  
While we’ve never, as I said, fully lived up to the idea, we’ve never
walked away from it before.   
  
Look, I’m not naïve.  Kamala and I traveled to Atlanta to grieve with
Asian American residents.  Violence against the community rose during
this pandemic.  Too many people fearful just walking the streets in
America.  
  
Jewish High Holidays approach.  Families will gather for reflection
under the shadow of the rise of antisemitism just four years after the
attack on the Tree of Life Synagogue in Pittsburgh — the deadliest act
of antisemitism in our nation’s history.  
  
This summer, 31 white supremacists in Idaho were stopped from unleashing
hateful violence just before they reached a Pride celebration, a threat
following a record year of violence against transgender Americans.  
  
Today, with the fall semester starting, we are joined by presidents of
Historically Black Colleges and Universities who should be able to focus
on providing the best experience possible for their students, but
instead are having to worry about more bomb threats against their
institutions.  
  
Too often, Native Americans, disabled Americans face harassment,
discrimination, and violence and victimization.  
  
Unfortunately, such hate-fueled violence and threats are not new to
America.   
  
There is a through-line of hate from massacres of Indigenous people, to
the original sin of slavery, the terror of the Klan, to anti-imm- —
anti-immigration violence against the Irish, Italians, Chinese,
Mexicans, and so many others laced throughout our history.  
  
There is a through-line of violence against religious groups:
antisemitic, anti-Catholic, anti-Mormon, anti-Muslim, anti-Hindu,
anti-Sikh.   
  
Look, folks, and that through-line of hate never fully goes away.  It
only hides.  
  
As I said before, when I was Chairman of the Judiciary Committee, I felt
really good that I got the extension of the Voting Rights Act for 25
years — even got Strom Thurmond to vote for it.  (Laughter.)  No, not a
joke.  And I thought — I thought, “Well, you know, hate can be
defeated.”   
  
But it only hides.  And when given any oxygen, it comes out from under
the rocks.   
  
In the last few years, it’s been given much too much oxygen in our
politics, in our media, and on the Internet; too much hate — all for
power and profit.  That’s the part we don’t — that’s changed a little
bit.  It’s about power and profit.   
  
Too much hate that’s fueled extremist violence that’s been allowed to
fester and grow.  
  
You know, as a result, our very own intelligence agencies — our own
intelligence agencies in the United States of America have determined
that domestic terrorism rooted in white supremacy is the greatest
terrorist threat to our Homeland today.   
  
I’ve been around a while.  I never thought I’d hear that or say that.   
  
Enough.  
  
We need to say it clearly and forcefully: White supremacy, all forms of
hate fueled by violence have no place in America.  
  
Failure to call it out is complicity.  My dad would say, “If you’re
silent, it’s complicity.”  We can’t remain silent.  
  
There’s always the saying: If we bring this up, we just divide the
country.  Bring it up.  We silence it, instead of remaining in silence. 
For in silence, wounds deepen.  We have to face the good, the bad, and
the truth.  That’s what great nations do, and we’re a great nation.  
  
So, we flace \[sic\] at this — we face at this moment, in my view, an
inflection point, one of those moments that determine the shape of
everything that’s going to come after.  
  
Our great-grandchildren are going to look back and decide whether or not
in this two-, four-, six-, eight-year period we stepped up.  Because the
world is changing.  
  
As the Irish poet said, “All changed, changed utterly: A terrible beauty
\[has been\] born.”   
  
We must choose to be a nation of hope, unity, and optimism or a nation
of fear and division and hate.  And we choose — as we do, we know this:
Hate-fueled violence is born into the fertile soil of a toxic
division.   
  
And we won’t solve the problem by going after the extreme fringes
alone.  We have to confront the ways in which our toxic divisions fuel
this crisis for all of us — our differences.   
  
Certainly, don’t turn a fellow American into a sworn enemy. Building
bridges across divides doesn’t mean we’re sacrificing our own beliefs
and our core values.  To be a nation of hope and unity and optimism, we
have to recognize that there are not — we’re not helpless in the face of
hate and fuel violence.  
  
We’re far more united than we’re divided, but we have to focus on it.  
  
In fact, the vast majority of Americans are overwhelmingly united
against such violence.  The vast majority of us believe in honesty,
decency, and respect for others, patriotism, liberty, justice for all,
hope, and possibilities.   
  
And I know we can do this together.  I really mean it.  We can do this
together.  
  
Last year, with Susan here at the White House, I signed a bipartisan
COVID-19 Hate Crimes Act that included provisions named after Heather
that are going to help state and local law enforcement better identify
and respond to hate crimes.  
  
Earlier this summer, I signed into law a Bipartisan Safer Communities
Act, the first major gun safety legislation in 30 years.  (Applause.) 
It will help keep weapons out of the hands of people who engage in hate
and rage and make them dangerous to themselves and to others.   
  
And I’m going to say it again: I am not going to stop until we ban
assault weapons.  (Applause.)  We have to ban assault weapons.  I mean
it.  We did it once before.  And when we did,  
mass crimes plummeted.  
  
My first day in office, I directed my national security and homeland
security team to develop a first-ever national strategy for countering
domestic terrorism.  The goal was to improve and enhance our
understanding of this growing threat within our country, prevent people
from being mobilized to violence, to counter the relentless exploitation
of the Internet to recruit and mobilize domestic terrorism.  
  
And there’s more we have to do together for the whole-of-government
approach and the whole-of-nation approach.   
  
That’s why today we’re launching a new White House initiative on
hate-motivated violence.  We’re going to use every federal resource
available to help communities counter hate-fueled violence, build
resilience, and foster greater national unity.   
  
For example, trainings on identifying, reporting, and combating
hate-fueled violence for local law enforcement agencies, workplaces, and
houses of worship; partnerships with schools that help them address
bullying and harassment.  
  
I’m calling for a new era of national service through organizations like
AmeriCorps to foster stronger communities and bridge divides in our
society.   
  
And I’m calling on Congress to do its part: raise the living allowance
for national service positions to the equivalent of $15 an hour. 
(Applause.)  This would make national service an accessible pathway to
success for more Americans of all backgrounds.   
  
Pass my budget to increase funding to protect nonprofits and houses of
worship from hate-fueled violence.  (Applause.)  And hold social media
platforms accountable for spreading hate and fueled violence. 
(Applause.)   
  
And I’m calling on Congress to get rid of special immunity for social
media companies and impose much stronger transparency requirements on
all of them.  (Applause.)  
  
But, folks, it’s not just the federal government that can act.  Everyone
has a role to play in this story.  Whether you’re a researcher seeking
to understand the causes of hate-fueled violence, a philanthropist
seeking to fund that research, or a concerned neighbor bearing witness
to it — and most collectively condemn those seeking mainstream violence
or the threat of violence.  
  
Look, as part of this summit, nonprofit organizations like the
Interfaith America, Habitat for Humanity, and the YMCA are launching new
nationwide training to teach 10,000 Americans how to become bridge
builders in their communities.   
  
And the U.S. Conference of Mayors is spearheading a compact with over
150 mayors — Democrats, Republicans, and independents — to address
hate-fueled violence in their communities.   
  
And today, a group of philanthropic leaders are announcing they’ll
mobilize $1 billion investment toward building a culture of respect,
peace, and cooperation in our civic life.  (Applause.)  
  
But, folks, this is just the beginning.  A new bipartisan initiative,
Dignity.us, will take this nation and the national conversation we
launched today on the road across all 50 states and the District of
Columbia — territories, Tribal lands — to listen and learn from the
people doing this work and find ways to scale up the best ideas.   
  
A bipartisan presidential center and senior officials from prior
Democrat and Republican administrations will all support this effort.   
  
We’re also about to meet some local heroes as we’re honoring the
“Uniters” — 21 fellow Americans — pastors, rabbis, imams building
relationships across faiths; a police officer educating fellow law
enforcement officers; a middle school student mobilizing her community;
a filmmaker documenting  
the epidemic of missing and murdered Indigenous people; and so many more
who are taking a stand.  
  
That’s what this summit is — summit is all about.  We the people, we
have to stand united.  We have to do more.   
  
Let me close where I started: by thanking all of you and two people in
particular, Rana <s>and</s> Sodhi is a brother of Malb- — Balbir Singh
Sodhi, one of the first American victims of post-9/11 hate crimes.   
  
On this day in 2001, with Ground Zero smoldering, he was targeted, shot,
and killed at work in Arizona by a white supremacist.  To honor his
memory, last year during the Asian American History Month here at the
White House, we displayed the turban he used to wear with pride.   
  
Ms. Sarah Collins <s>Randolph</s> \[Rudolph\] is also here today.  On
this day in 1963, her sister Addie Mae was one of four little girls
preparing for Sunday school who were murdered by white supremacists in
the 16th \[Street\] Baptist Church bombing in Birmingham, which I
visited.  Ms. Collins Rudolph survived the bombing but still carries the
scars of that blast.   
  
Ms. Collins Rudolph, I’m honored to see you here again.  Thank you for
being here.  I visited the church on this day in 2019.  And I’ll visit
with you and always remember what happened.   
  
All these years later, Ms. <s>Randolph</s> \[Rudolph\], Mr. Sodhi
providing the evidence that we need, proving that grief is universal,
but so is hope and so is love.  
  
My fellow Americans, we remain in the battle for the soul of our
nation.  When I look around at all of you here today, I know we’ll win
that battle.  I know we’ll win it.  The power is within each of us to
transform the story of our time, to rise together against hate, to show
who we are.  We are the United States of America.  And there’s nothing —
nothing beyond our capacity.   
  
And one of my reasons for optimism is the young people in this country. 
They’re the least prejudiced, most volunteering, least — how can I say
it? — least likely to find blame, and most likely to get engaged.   
  
We have to organize them, just like, Rev, our generation was organized
in the Civil Rights days.  And we can do this, because the violence and
the haters are in a minority.  But unless we speak out — unless we speak
out, it’s going to continue.  It’ll continue.  
  
And, folks, we cannot be intimidated by those who are talking about this
as somehow we’re some — a bunch of wacko liberals who are engaged in
this new — (laughter) — I mean, thi- — think about how it’s
characterized.   
  
We have to stand up, and I’m confident we will.  Thank you all for being
here.  And, Susan, thank you for organizing this.  (Applause.)  
  
And I’ve said many times: Every time I’d walk out of my Grandpa
Finnegan’s house, he’d yell, “Joey, keep the faith.”  My grandmother —
“No, Joey.  Spread it.”  
  
Let’s go spread the faith.  Thank you, thank you, thank you.  
  
4:08 P.M. EDT
