---
date: '2022-09-01'
modified_time: 2022-09-02 12:16:34-04:00
published_time: 2022-09-01 12:13:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/09/01/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-on-the-impact-of-the-inflation-reduction-act-on-seniors-and-families/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris on the Impact of the Inflation Reduction\
  \ Act on Seniors and\_Families"
---
 
  
*Durham Center for Senior Life  
Durham, North Carolina*

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon, everyone.  Good afternoon.  Please
have a seat.  Please have a seat.  Please have a seat.  Good afternoon. 
And it is good to be back in North Carolina and in Durham.   
  
Governor, I thank you.  I was saying to Roy Cooper, who I’ve known for
years — he and I were attorneys general together when I was Attorney
General of California and he, of course, in North Carolina.  And he’s
been so important as a partner to the President and me with everything
that we’ve been doing from the initial work that we did around what we
needed to do to bring relief for small businesses, to the work that
we’ve done with the infrastructure law, and now, of course, this.  So,
Governor, thank you always for your leadership.  It was so good to be
back with you.  
  
And, Gina, thank you for your work.   
  
This afternoon, we had a tour of the facility and got to meet with some
extraordinary leaders, including our seniors who have been providing
such an important voice on these issues and having the ability with such
courage to tell your personal stories — and I’m looking at a few of them
right now — to tell your personal stories in a way that really gives
voice to so many folks who are not in this room right now, but need to
be heard.  So I thank you for that.  
  
And, Mayor O’Neal, where are you?  I want to thank you for all of your
leadership.  It’s good to be back with you again, as well.  (Applause.) 
Yes.  Yes.  
  
And we are joined by so many leaders.  I see some old friends and — I
mean “longstanding.”  We don’t say that.  (Laughter.)  And many new
ones.   
  
And I want to thank you, including our administrator for the
Administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services,
Chiquita Brooks-LaSure.  Where are you?  There she is.  I will tell you,
she has broke so many barriers in terms of her leadership and being the
first in so many ways.  But on this and so many issues, she is always
fighting for the people of our country and, in particular, those who
deserve to have the dignity that comes with having a nation think about
their care, and doing it in a way that is thoughtful and comprehensive. 
So thank you, Madam Administrator, for that.  (Applause.)  
  
Congressman David Price, I see you there.  Thank you.  You have been
representing this district for over 30 years, and, again, a real
champion for North Carolina.  And I’ve seen him in the halls of Congress
doing the work of making sure that we are always thoughtful about this
community.   
  
So I have worked with many folks over the years.  And I will tell you
that the folks who are leaders — who I have just mentioned — in this
room, know this state so well and the dreams of the people of this
state.  And — and so, that’s why I’m here, because the President and I
wanted to make sure that we were highlighting the work of the leaders
here in Durham and in North Carolina on this very important issue that
impacts people around our nation.  
  
So, that being said, let’s understand: Today in America, there are more
than 50 million people over the age of 65.  And North Carolina has one
of the largest and fastest-growing populations of seniors in the
country, with currently — and it’s growing — just under 2 million
seniors.    
  
And who are we talking about?  We’re talking about folks that have spent
their entire lives working hard, building families, and contributing to
their community, and creating a path for so many of us to follow.   
  
However, far too often, our nation does not provide our seniors with the
support and the resources they need.  In fact, I am sad to share with
you that in our nation, right now, at least 9 percent of our seniors
live in poverty.  Among women 80 years old and over, that number jumps
to 14 percent.  
  
Today, 1 in 10 seniors reports experiencing elder abuse.  And that’s an
issue I’ve been working on since back in my days when I was District
Attorney.  And on the issue of elder abuse, far too often, they suffer
silently for fear that to tell anyone might mean that they will be
deprived of their ability to live independently and be taken seriously
and treated with respect.  
  
And today, millions of seniors still struggle to afford the healthcare
they need and they deserve.  
  
But our administration is determined to lower healthcare costs for our
seniors.  And a key part of that work is lowering the cost of
insulin.   
  
So, why is that a big deal?  Well, because, today, one in three seniors
in our nation has diabetes.  And for seniors on Medicare, a month of
insulin can cost more than $100 — extremely expensive.  I’ve talked with
our seniors in different parts of the country who talk about how they
ration their insulin because they cannot afford to refill their
prescription.  I met with one of the community pharmacists just a —
about a few minutes ago, talking about what he has seen when seniors
come into the pharmacy and say, “I’m not — I can’t refill my
prescription yet because I’m not ready to be able to pay that until the
beginning of next month.”  Right?   
  
So, folks who need a prescription filled because a doctor, a medical
health professional, said, “That’s exactly what you need to alleviate
your pain or improve the quality of your life” — unable to fill the
prescription that would do just that.   
  
Folks who talk about what their insulin — they then, to stretch it out,
will do one day on and one day off, which means — and the medical
professionals here can tell you — to do that means that they endure
dizziness and nausea and blurry vision, because they simply don’t have
any other choice but to try and stretch it out.   
  
And understand the importance of this, in terms of the numbers of folks
we’re talking about and the seriousness of this issue.  A diabetic who
goes for too long without insulin could fall into a coma or even die. 
And no one should have to worry and wonder about whether they will be
able to afford the insulin that keeps them alive.   
  
And that is why, starting next year, our administration will cap the
cost of insulin prescriptions for people on Medicare to $35 a month. 
(Applause.)  And frankly, it’s long overdue.   
  
And the benefit will be to cover at least 1.4 million people in our
country, as part of our administration’s larger campaign to lower the
cost of prescription medication across the board.   
  
For years — and I’ve seen this over the years of being an Attorney
General.  Roy knows this.  When we defend consumers’ rights; to being in
the Senate and watching it from Washington — Washington, D.C. and those
lobbyists; to being Vice President.  For years, the largest drug
companies have made billions of dollars in profits, selling drugs for 10
to 100 times what they cost to make.   
  
For years, Big Pharma — that’s what we call that group, “Big Pharma” —
has fought to grow their profits by preventing Medicare from negotiating
lower drug prices.  And for years, they won.  Because, you see, Medicare
was required by law — by law to pay whatever price the drug companies
set.  But not anymore.  Not anymore.  (Applause.)  
  
So last month, our administration gave Medicare the power to negotiate
with Big Pharma on behalf of our seniors.  And understand what that
means: It means, yes, we’re changing the game.  But it also means this,
in terms of breaking down the issue: It means that our seniors should
not be out there having to fight for themselves against these powerful
interests at a stage of life where they have earned the right to be
treated with dignity by their community and their society and their
nation.  They should not have to be out there advocating for themselves,
especially when they are at a moment of need in terms of being in pain
or being sick and just simply needing to be able to have access and to
be able to afford the thing that will give them a better quality of
life.   
  
So, this single change, allowing Medicare to negotiate, will lower the
price of prescription drugs for millions of Americans.   
  
Another healthcare issue for millions of our fellow Americans, including
our seniors, is the issue of hearing aids.  Everybody here knows what
I’m talking about.  Right?  (Laughter.)  It’s a big issue.  It’s a big
issue for those who know and want to talk with folks who need a hearing
aid and for those who need a hearing aid.  (Laughter.)  It’s a big issue
for all of us.   
  
Millions of people in our nation depend on hearing aids to help them
live a full and independent life — to speak, for example, with the
teller at the bank or the person who is the server at the restaurant; to
hear the sermon in church; or to listen to a grandchild talk about their
first day of school.  But hearing aids are expensive.  Sometimes, they
cost more than $5,000 a pair.   
  
And for people who are 70 years and older who need hearing aids, the
numbers I’ve looked at tell us that only one in three of those in that
category has ever actually used a hearing aid because of all these
barriers to getting them.   
  
So, this is why President Biden and I recently took a long-overdue step
to make hearing aids available over the counter.  Right?  So —
(applause) — no prescription.  Go to the community pharmacist. 
Right?   
  
So this will reduce the average cost of a pair of hearing aids by
thousands of dollars.  Soon, Americans with mild to moderate hearing
loss will be able to buy their hearing aids at the local drugstore or
pharmacy, no prescription needed.  (Applause.)  Because you know what
you need.  (Laughter.)  On some of these things, folks can
self-diagnose.  Right?  “I know I can’t hear something that I want to
hear.”   
  
And so, it’s practical as well as absolutely intended to bring down the
cost and allow so many people to access and afford the help they
need.   
  
And so, that brings me to my final point for today, which is the
important work that we are doing to cap out-of-pocket prescription drug
costs.   
  
So, imagine this — imagine for example, a 70-year-old woman goes in for
her annual checkup and she complains about stiffness and pain in her
joints.  And after running some tests, her doctor diagnoses her with
rheumatoid arthritis.  And let’s say, a few days later, she goes down
the street to her pharmacy to fill the prescription and she learns that
the copay for a single month of pills is 6- or 700 dollars.   
  
Across our nation, seniors with chronic medical conditions are paying as
much as $10,000 a year for the medication they need to simply stay
healthy and stay alive.   
  
Seniors who have to choose between paying their rent and filling their
prescription.  Seniors who are forced to cut their pills in half because
they cannot afford their full prescription — a prescription for the
dosage that they actually require.   
  
This has got to stop.  It’s got to stop.   
  
And this is why, beginning in 2025, our administration will cap
out-of-pocket prescription drug costs to $2,000 a year for people on
Medicaid \[sic\] — Medicare.  Medicare.  (Applause.)  We need to extend
it beyond that, but for Medicare.  You know, we’ve been fighting to
actually extend a lot of this beyond Medicare, but this is where we are
right now.  The fight is not over.   
  
But what this means is that no matter how much your prescriptions cost,
no matter how many prescriptions you have — and so many of our seniors
have a dozen or more prescriptions that they need to take — for you, you
will pay no more than $2,000 a year for your medicine.   
  
And so, that means if you are on Medicare or if you will soon be on
Medicare, you will no longer have to worry that one terrible diagnosis
will bankrupt you or your loved ones.   
  
So, for President Biden and me, it really does come down to this: Access
to healthcare should be a right, not a privilege for those who can
afford it.  (Applause.)  It’s that basic.   
  
And just think about it, affordable healthcare is — it’s about your
health and it’s about more.  First of all, we’re talking about an
essential need.  Right?  We’re not talking about a luxury.  We’re
talking about an essential need.   
  
Also, access to affordable healthcare is about independence —
independence from debt, independence from fear, independence from
pain.  
  
And affordable healthcare and access to affordable healthcare is also
about peace of mind — the peace of mind that comes from knowing you will
never have to choose between your physical wellbeing and your financial
wellbeing.   
  
And affordable healthcare, ultimately, is about dignity — the dignity to
which all people are entitled and deserve.   
  
And so, that is why President Biden and I will continue with this fight
so that every person in our nation and every senior in our nation can
access the healthcare they need and deserve.  
  
And with that, may God bless you and may God bless America.  Thank
you.  
  
END
