---
date: '2022-09-15'
modified_time: 2022-09-15 21:42:34-04:00
published_time: 2022-09-15 21:42:33-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/09/15/remarks-by-president-biden-on-reaching-a-tentative-railway-labor-agreement/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on Reaching a Tentative Railway Labor\_Agreement"
---
 
Rose Garden

11:20 A.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, good morning, everyone.  As you might guess, I am
very pleased to announce a tentative labor agreement between — that has
been reached between the railway workers and the railway companies. 
This agreement is a big win for America and for both, in my view.

I want to thank the lead negotiators and the lab- — from the labor
movement — the Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers and the Trainmen;
International Association of Sheet Metal and Air and Rail and
Transportation Workers union; and the other labor unions engaged.

And this is a win for tens of thousands of rail workers and for their
dignity and the dignity of their work.  It’s a recognition of that. 

During these early, dark, uncertain days of the pandemic, they showed up
so every American could keep going.  They worked tirelessly through the
pandemic to ensure that families and communities got the deliveries they
needed during these difficult few years.

And because of the labor agreement, those rail workers will get better
pay — a 24 percent wage increase over the next five years, improved
working conditions, peace of mind around their healthcare by capping the
cost that workers will have to pay.

And it’s about the right to go to a doctor or stay healthy and make sure
you’re able to have the care you can afford.  It’s all part of this
agreement.  They earned and deserve these benefits. 

And this is a great deal for both sides, in my view.  The agreement is
also a victory for railway companies.

And I want to thank the lead negotiators from the Railway — the National
Railway Labor Conference and our major rail companies.  These companies
also played a critical role in keeping America moving during the
pandemic.  And that’s not hyperbole, it’s a fact.

With this agreement, railroad companies will be able to retain and
recruit workers.  They’ll be able to continue to operate effectively as
a vital piece of our economy.  They’re really the backbone of the
economy.  I have a visual image of rails being the backbone.  I mean,
literally, the backbone of the economy. 

So I thank the unions and the rail companies for negotiating in good
faith — they’ve been up for 20 straight hours through that negotiation —
and — and for sticking with it, especially over the last few days.

In fact, the negotiators here today, I don’t think they’ve been to bed
yet — (laughter) — so I don’t want to keep this very long, and they
having to stand is a — besides.

Together, we reached an agreement — you reached an agreement that will
keep our critical rail system working and avoid disruptions of our
economy. 

And I’m grateful — grateful for the members of the administration who
worked tirelessly on both sides to help get this done.

I especially want to thank Labor Secretary Marty Walsh — a card-carrying
union member and the first union Labor Secretary in decades — for his
tireless, around-the-clock work.  (Applause.)

This agreement is validation — validation of what I’ve always believed:
Unions and management can work together — can work together for the
benefit of everyone.

They’re traveling now.  A number of them are up.  But I want to thank
Secretary of Transportation Pete Buttigieg and Agriculture Secretary Tom
Vilsack who were deeply involved, along with — I want to thank Deputy
Labor Secretary Julie Su; Director of the National Economic Council
Brian Deese; and the Deputy National \[Economic Council\] Director of
Labor, Celeste Drake, for this commitment and hard work.

To the American people: This agreement can avert the significant damage
that any shutdown would have brought.  Our nation’s rail system is the
backbone of our supply chain. 

Everything you rely on — and it’s hard to realize this — everything from
clean water, to food, to gas, to everyday — I mean, liquified natural
gas, to everything — every good that you need seems to be on a rail,
getting delivered to where it needs to go.

With unemployment still near record lows and signs of progress in
lowering costs, this agreement allows us to continue to rebuild a better
America with an economy that truly works for working people and their
families.

Today is a win — and I mean it sincerely — a win for America.

So I want to thank you all for getting this done, both business and
labor.  Thank you, thank you, thank you. 

And may God protect our troops.  Thank you so much.  (Applause.)

Q    Mr. President, grocery prices are up over 13 percent.  What do you
tell struggling Americans?

THE PRESIDENT:  Rail is moving, and it’s not going to go up.

11:24 A.M. EDT
