---
date: '2022-09-12'
modified_time: 2022-09-12 23:05:34-04:00
published_time: 2022-09-12 23:05:25-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/09/12/remarks-by-president-biden-on-the-cancer-moonshot-initiative/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on the Cancer Moonshot\_Initiative"
---
 
ohn F. Kennedy Presidential Library and Museum  
Boston, Massachusetts

4:33 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT: Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Thank you, thank you, thank
you. (Applause.) Thank you. Madam Ambassador Caroline, thank you for
that introduction and for your enduring friendship.

I was talking earlier about how your family, at a very difficult time in
my life — when I first got to the Senate as a 29-year-old kid, before I
was sworn in, I lost my wife and my daughter, and my two boys were so
badly injured when struck by a tractor trailer. And your family was
there for me. No, I really mean it. Your family was there for me. And
you may remember some of it. And I’ll never forget it. They got me and
my boys through an awful lot.

I’m truly honored to be with you all this — and your incredible family.

And, Jack, I believe your generation is the best-educated, most talented
generation in our history. And that’s the reason I’m so optimistic about
the future, and that’s not hyperbole. I mean it.

You know, Sheetal, thank you for sharing your powerful story.

And thank you, Mayor Wu, for the passport into this great city.

And thank you to Health and — (applause) — to Health and Human Service —
Services Secretary Becerra and Boston’s own Marty Walsh. Marty.
(Applause.)

And thank you to the members of the Massachusetts delegation from the
House: Representatives Pressley, Lynch, Keating, and Jack — Jake, I
should say, Auchincloss. And, Lori, thank you as well for being here.
You have beautiful daughters. They’re great kids.

And I want to thank all of you — the cancer patients, survivors,
caregivers.

(Addressing audience members on the balcony.) And don’t jump from up
there, okay?

And all — for all the leaders of science and medicine for being here
today.

This is a powerful place for reflection and remembrance.

On this day in 1962, America was facing an inflection point — one of
those times that changes everything, from the day before to the day
after. The shadow of world wars cast over a Cold War. The march on civil
rights urgent yet uncertain.

And against all of that and more, America faced a choice: to move
forward or to move backwards; to build the future or obsess about the
past; to be a nation of unity and hope and optimism, or a nation of
division, violence, and hatred.

At this inflection point, President Kennedy made a choice for the
nation, thank God. On this day in 1962, at Rice University in Houston,
he spoke about America’s possibilities.

I was asked by Xi Jinping — who I’ve met with more than any other world
leader — in the Tibetan Plateau, and he turned to me and he said, “Can
you define America for me?” And I said, “Yes.” And I was sincere. I
said, “One word: possibilities.” In America, we believe anything is
possible. (Applause.) And I mean it.

And in choosing to go to the Moon, President Kennedy said America was
doing so, quote, “not because \[it was\] easy, but because \[it was\]
hard, because \[the\] goal will serve to organize and measure the best
of our energies and skills, because that challenge is one that we are
willing to accept, one we are” willing — not — “one we are unwilling to
postpone, and one which we intend to win.”

“Unwilling to postpone.” President Kennedy. “Unwilling to postpone.”
President Kennedy set a goal to win the Space Race against Russia and
advance science and technology for all of humanity. And when he set that
goal, he established a national purpose that could rally the American
people in a common cause. And he succeeded.

Now, in our time, on the 60th anniversary of his clarion call, we face
another inflection point. And together, we can choose to move forward
with unity, hope, and optimism.

And I believe we can usher in the same unwillingness to postpone, the
same national purpose that will serve to organize and measure the best
of our energies and skills to end cancer as we know it and even cure
cancers once and for all. (Applause.)

I give you my word as a Biden: This Cancer Moonshot is one of the
reasons why I ran for President. It’s part of my Unity Agenda that I
laid out in my State of the Union Address to rally the American people
to work together. Because we know this: Cancer does not discriminate red
and blue; it doesn’t care if you’re a Republican or a Democrat.

Beating cancer is something we can do together. And that’s why I’m here
today. (Applause.)

We’ve made enormous progress in the past 50 years since President Nixon
signed the National Cancer Act to declare a war on cancer.

We learned cancer is not a single disease, but there are over 200
different types of cancers caused by different genetic mutations in our
cells. We discovered new medicines, therapies, early detection and
prevention measures to extend and to save lives.

In the first 25 years since the National Cancer Act, the death rate from
cancer largely remained unchanged. Then things began to change.

With progress over the last 25 years, the death rate from cancer has
fallen more than 25 percent. But despite the progress of life ex- —
lives extended, lives saved, cancer is still the number two cause of
death in America second only to heart disease.

For too many cancer patients and their families, instead of hope,
there’s bewilderment; the feeling of being on your own; frustration that
hospitals said \[and\] doctors can’t easily share your medical records
with other hospitals and doctors to help find answers even when every
minute counts; having to advocate for even the most basic care and
attention for your loved ones; the flood of information is completely
different — is a completely different language, with few people help and
available to help you decipher it; having therapy that work — that could
work within reach, but it’s too expensive or insurance won’t cover it.

And so when President Obama asked me to launch the Cancer Moonshot, our
goal was to bring an added urgency — a new urgency to the fight and, in
my view, not unlike President Kennedy did.

We harnessed federal resources to change the culture, increase
cooperation, and break down the silos that exist. That included
everything from making published results of federally funded cancer
research more available to any patient, to any doctor, for free instead
of the firewall that had been set up.

That included the recognition that for many cancer patients it’s hard to
even know if there’s a clinical trial that can help them, let alone how
to enroll in one. So we launched Trials.Cancer.gov so everyone can find
a clinical trial near them or across the country and the world, and they
can gain access to these trials.

I’ve traveled the country, brought together leaders in healthcare,
technology, education, business, philanthropy. I visited many of the
major cancer research centers in the world. And nowhere — no matter
where I was or what the topic at hand, world leaders wanted to talk to
me about our Cancer Moonshot. That’s not hyperbole, that’s a fact.

For example, Pope Francis convened a major international conference on
cell therapies at the Vatican, and he invited me to speak about our
mission. And one of the final pieces of legislation President Obama
signed into law was the bipartisan 21st Century Cures Act.

It streamlined the Food and Drug Administration — the FDA — by creating
an Oncology Center of Excellence so new cancer treatments can be
evaluated faster. It provided seven years of new funding, including
research on cancer therapies and the disparities, trial networks to
discover new drugs, and new efforts on childhood cancer.

As President of the United States Senate, I presided over the
overwhelming bipartisan vote and watched my friend Mitch McConnell name
the cancer provisions in that bill after my son Beau, who had lost his
life to that disease just months earlier.

And when we left office, Jill and I knew we had to keep it going
through, keep it up — so we initiated the Biden Cancer Initiative.

We focused on turning the moonshot into a movement — not just a shot, a
movement — to create a cancer research and care system that most people
think we already have but they don’t realize until they find they have
cancer that we don’t, but one that we deserve.

And everywhere we’d go, people would share their stories, literally, in
grocery stores, airports, rope lines. While we heard stories of loss and
despair, the stories began to change to a feeling of real hope, not
because of me or Jill, but because of all of you and so many of you at
home: doctors, researchers, advocates, caregivers, patients, survivors.

And that’s when I was elected President and I determined to supercharge
the Cancer Moonshot as a central effort in the Biden-Harris
administration.

In February, I laid out our plan that is bold, ambitious, and, I might
add, completely doable.

The goal is to cut cancer death rates by at least 50 percent — at least
50 percent — in the next 25 years; to turn more cancers from death
sentences into chronic diseases people can live with; to create a more
supportive experience for our patients and families; and to update — to
update our fight against the cancer.

It’s a disease we often diagnose too late and have too few ways to
prevent it in the first place; where there are stark inequities based on
race, disability, ZIP Code, sexual orientation, gender identity, and
other factors. We know too little about why treatments work for some
patients but the same patient — a different patient with the same
disease it doesn’t work for.

We still lack strategies for developing treatments for some cancers,
like childhood cancers.

We don’t do enough to help patients and families navigate the cancer
care system.

We don’t learn enough from their experience as patients.

We don’t share enough data and knowledge to bring the urgency we need to
finding new answers.

But for each — for each of the ways we know cancer today, we know we can
change the trajectory.

For example, to prevent cancers, scientists are exploring whether mRNA
vaccine technology that brought us safe and effective COVID-19 vaccines
could be used to stop cancer cells when they first arise.

To target the right treatments, we’re learning more about how to use
genetics, immune response, and other factors to tell which combinations
of treatments are likely to work best for each individual.

To address the inequities, we can ensure prevention, detection,
treatment; reach patients in urban, rural, and suburban, and Tribal
communities so they have equal access to cancer diagnostics,
therapeutics, and clinical trials.

As part of the supercharged Moonshot, I’ll use my authorities as
President to increase funding to break logjam — break logjams and to
speed breakthroughs.

I’ve also formed a new Cancer Cabinet that is driving a
whole-of-government effort to unleash every possible asset within our
power — from NASA, that knows more about radiation than any doctor does;
to the Defense Department, that has the ability to calculate; and to the
Energy Department — do a million billion calculations per second.

Health and Human Services Secretary Becerra plays a key role in the
Cancer Cabinet, as does Marty Walsh, a childhood cancer survivor who is
committed to helping Americans get time off for cancer screenings or
care for a loved one.

The White House Office of Science and Technology Policy is changing the
path of the — for the Cancer Moonshot for 2022 and beyond.

And today, I’m setting a long-term goal for the Cancer Moonshot to rally
America and ingenuity that we can engage, like we did to reach the Moon,
that actually cures cancers, not all cancer — cancers — cures for
cancers, once and for all.

And a critical way to do that is that going through what I call ARPA-H,
Advanced Research Project Agencies for Health. It’s based on DARPA, the
Defense Department’s Advanced Research Projects Agency, that has helped
lead to breakthroughs in technologies to protect our national security,
like the Internet, GPS, and so much more.

ARPA-H will have the singular purpose to drive breakthroughs to prevent,
detect, and treat diseases — including cancer, Alzheimer’s, diabetes,
and other diseases — and enable us to live healthier lives.

I called for ARPA-H in my campaign. And after being elected President,
notwithstanding the fact that Democrats and Republicans allegedly don’t
talk to one another, Republicans, independents, and Democrats in
Congress came together and invested $1 billion initially to launch
ARPA-H.

Imagine the possibilities: vaccines that could prevent cancer, like the
race for HPV.

Imagine molecular ZIP Codes that could deliver drugs and gene therapy
precisely to the right tissues.

Imagine a simple blood test during an annual physical that could detect
cancer early, where the chance of a cure are best.

Imagine getting a simple shot instead of a grueling chemo or getting a
pill from a local pharmacy instead of invasive treatments and long
hospital stays.

Imagine treatments beyond cancer. Bold approaches to reduce maternal
mortality and morbidity, something Vice President Harris is laser —
laser-focused on.

And imagine artificial retinas that could help blind people see.

These are just a few of the ideas to illustrate the amazing potential of
ARPA-H.

When President Kennedy called for a moonshot, we didn’t have all the
tools and experience needed. With our Cancer Moonshot, today we do.

And I’m pleased to announce my selection as the inaugural director of
ARPA-H, Dr. Renee Wegryzn, who is here today. Doctor, where are you?
Stand up. (Applause.) The leading biomedical scientist, a decade of
experience leading multiple biotech projects at DARPA. And, by the way,
it’s about how to use all the assets we have — all of them. An
entrepreneur in synthetic biology. She’s — you’re going to bring the
legendary DARPA attitude and culture and boldness and risk-taking to
ARPA-H to fill a critical need. Discoveries that save lives, change
lives, and often start — they often start in the lab bench.

But then those basic research breakthroughs need to be tested, scaled,
and brought to the clinic. This may require unusual partnerships that
may require support to get over many obstacles that exist. That’s what
ARPA-H is designed — what it’s designed to do, so the advances can reach
all Americans sooner.

I predict ARPA-H will emerge as a new and exciting member of America’s
biomedical ecosystem. But it’s not enough to invent technologies that
save lives. We need to manufacture advanced biotechnologies here in the
United States.

That’s why today I signed an executive order that directs the federal
government to ensure biotechnologies invented in the United States of
America are made in the United States of America — (applause) — whether
they are for cancer treatments or anything else, like next-generation
fuels and materials.

Today’s action is going to ensure that America leads the world in
biotechnology and biomanufacturing, creating jobs, reducing prices,
strengthening supply chains so we don’t have to rely on anywhere else in
the world. Here in America it’ll be made. And here’s — there’s more that
we’re doing.

The Inflation Reduction Act that I signed into law puts a $2,000 cap on
the total prescription drug cost for any senior on Medicare, including
cancer medicine. And for so many people, one of the first things they
think about when they get a diagnosis: “How am I going to pay for the
treatment? Do we need to sell the house? Do we need to skip payments on
the car? Can we afford to send the kids to college?”

The Inflation Reduction Act is a godsend. It’s going to save people on
one prostate cancer drug about $6,000 a year. Thousands of women are
taking breast cancer treatments that will see about a $7,000-a-year
savings.

But that’s not all. When I led the Cancer Moonshot as Vice President,
one of the biggest issues I talked about was how federally funded cancer
researchers were not sharing their results with their peers or the
public because they wanted to have the answer. You all know it.

As I mentioned earlier, we made federally funded cancer research more
available to any patient, to any doctor anywhere for free.

And today, as President, we’re making sure that transparency applies to
all federally funded science beyond just cancer.

And this summer, I announced a new head of the National Cancer
Institute, Boston’s own — Boston’s own Monica Bertaglia \[sic\] —
Bertagnolli, excuse me. Monica, you can call me “Bidden.” (Laughter.)
And she’s here today. Where are you, Monica? Stand up. Thank you.
(Applause.)

The National Cancer Institute is launching a major national trial for
those new tests I mentioned that could detect one or more cancers merely
by taking blood samples. You know, if that’s the case, these blood tests
could lead to less invasive cancer detection tools that will save lives.

We’re also launching the first-ever Cancer Moonshot Scholar program to
support a new generation of scientists from every background, from every
part of the country, to launch their cutting-edge research and careers.

But we need everyone to get in the game. That’s why I’m also calling on
the science and medical communities to bring the boldest thinking to
this fight. I’m calling on the private sector to develop and test new
treatments, make drugs more affordable, share more data and knowledge
that can inform the public and benefit every company’s research.

And I’m respectfully calling on people living with cancer, and
caregivers and families, to keep sharing their experience and pushing
for progress. Go to WhiteHouse.gov/CancerMoonshot. Share your ideas. So
many of you already made a difference.

Last month, I signed the so-called PACT Act into law, one of the most
significant laws helping veterans and their families impacted by toxic
exposure like burn pits that lead to cancer.

It was veterans and their families, advocates and allies who helped me
get this bill to my desk. They never gave up. They never stopped. They
slept on the Capitol steps. It matters. It’s personal to all of us.

So let me close with this:

Caroline, I couldn’t be here and not talk about your uncle, Teddy. He
was one of my dearest friends. One of the things that brings us close as
families is the dreaded cancer that he and my Beau fought to the end and
died months apart.

After Beau passed, Vicki wrote me a letter about how after Ted lost his
older brother Joe, his father wrote to a friend who just lost his son.
Caroline, your grandfather wrote, and I quote:

“When one of your loved one\[s\] goes out” — “goes out of your life, you
think of what he might have done with a few more years, and you wonder”
— “you wonder what you’re going to do with the rest of yours.

Then one day, because there is a world to be lived in, you find you are
part of it trying to accomplish something — something he did not have
time enough to do.

And perhaps that is the reason for it all. I hope so.”

End of quote.

For so many of us, that’s what we’re trying to do —  
live a life worthy of the loved ones we’ve lost and the loved ones we
can save, with their hope and absolute courage, and with an
unwillingness to postpone and with a singular purpose for ourselves as a
— and as a nation.

President Kennedy said on this day 60 years ago, “We set sail on this
new sea because there is new, \[life-saving\] knowledge to be gained”
that must be used for “progress of all people.” End of quote.

In our time today, that’s our charge to keep, in my view. I know we can
do this together because I know this: There is nothing — nothing —
nothing beyond our capacabili- — our capacity if we work together as the
United States of America.

God bless you all. And may God protect our troops. Thank you for
listening. (Applause.)

4:58 P.M. EDT
