---
date: '2022-09-21'
published_time: 2022-09-21 14:58:47-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/09/21/remarks-as-prepared-for-delivery-by-first-lady-jill-biden-at-columbia-university-irving-medical-center-with-queen-letizia-of-spain/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks as Prepared for Delivery by First Lady Jill\_Biden at Columbia University\
  \ Irving Medical Center with Queen Letizia of\_Spain"
---
 
New York, NY

Thank you, Dr. Rustgi, for your kind introduction and for taking the
time to show us the incredible work that you and your entire team are
doing to fight cancer.

Queen Letizia, Ambassador Cabanas, Secretary Moreno Bau, and all of the
Spanish delegation, thank you for joining us today.

Before I begin, like all Americans, I want to say that my heart is with
the people of Puerto Rico who are coping with Hurricane Fiona. You are
not alone or forgotten. We stand with you and we will do everything we
can to help you rebuild.

Early in our Administration, Queen Letizia invited me to learn more
about Spain’s incredible efforts to fight cancer. So, when we traveled
to Spain for the NATO summit, I flew in early to meet her. Right away, I
could see how much of her heart is in this work. I was inspired by her
passion, and by the cutting edge work we saw that day. Thank you, Dr.
Reyes, for taking the time to show us the AECC. Your work touched my
heart.

After my visit, I wanted to bring the Queen here to see what we are
doing here in the United States through the Cancer Moonshot, especially
as the Columbia Cancer Center works closely with researchers and
clinicians in Spain.

Moments ago, we met a man named Mario. When he was 12 years old, Mario’s
father died of cancer. Then at 65, he heard words that can strike fear
into the bravest person—the words his father had heard some 50 years
before: “You have cancer.”

Thankfully, Mario was treated by the amazing doctors here at Columbia.
And it was a success. He was better, until he wasn’t. In 2015, he was
diagnosed with an even more aggressive cancer, and when the standard
therapies began to fail, Mario felt himself losing hope.

That’s when he met Brianne. She is a clinical trials nurse navigator.
Brianne helped Mario enroll in a clinical trial here and guided him
through test after test, making sure he was never alone. And as he
navigated this confusing and frightening world of cancer treatment, her
help made all the difference.

Mario, thank you for sharing your story, and Brianne, thank you for
reminding us all just how far kindness and support can go. It’s stories
like that—stories about putting patients in the center of their
care—that make the Columbia Cancer Center so special.

This cancer center is addressing the deep disparities in care that we’ve
seen far too often. We’ve heard the statistics: life-saving treatments
are often out of reach for communities like this one, for neighborhoods
of color, low-income areas, or places where care is difficult to access.
When it comes to clinical trials, too many people get left behind. But
this Cancer Center is changing that.

Doctors and nurses are meeting patients where they are, and reaching out
to ensure people in their community can access the world-class care they
need. And the results speak for themselves: more than four in 10
clinical trial participants are people of color—over twice the national
average.

In some ways, cancer touches us all. That’s true in the United States.
It’s true in Spain. And it’s true around the world.

Almost 30 years ago, I started to work in the cancer space when I
founded the Biden Breast Health Initiative. Since then, brilliant minds
from every corner of the world have made incredible leaps forward in
treatments and cures, patient care, and prevention. But I’ve also
learned that these brilliant minds aren’t always working together.

The Cancer Moonshot is working to change that.

We have an ambitious goal to decrease the death rate from cancer by at
least 50 percent over the next 25 years. We’re working to improve the
experience of patients, their families, and caregivers. And we’re
working to support partnerships that cross borders and oceans. Because
none of us can beat cancer alone.

It takes all of us, sharing our best ideas and practices, working
together to ease the burden on patients and their families, and creating
the kind of care that saves lives. So, we must continue to collaborate
across oceans, share knowledge, and find the hope that connects us all.
Together, we can give our people the future they deserve, no matter
where they call home.

Together, we can end cancer as we know it.

Thank you.

And now, it’s my honor to introduce a woman who has been a tireless
partner in this fight for more than a decade, who fights for the people
of Spain and cancer patients around the world: Queen Letizia.

\###
