---
date: '2022-09-01'
published_time: 2022-09-01 14:42:19-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/09/01/remarks-as-prepared-for-delivery-by-first-lady-jill-biden-at-the-biden-harris-administrations-launch-of-the-apprenticeship-ambassador-initiative/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks as Prepared for Delivery by First Lady Jill\_Biden at the Biden-\u2060\
  Harris Administration\u2019s Launch of the Apprenticeship Ambassador\_Initiative"
---
 
Eisenhower Executive Office Building

\*\*\*

Thank you, Secretary Raimondo—and Secretary Walsh, thank you both for
your leadership.

Welcome everyone.                          

Tuesday was my first day back at school getting ready for the semester
to start—but like most teachers, I’ve been preparing for a few weeks
now. I spent my COVID recovery time reading articles and thinking about
how to inspire and engage my students.

And it’s got me thinking of someone I taught a few years ago—an
automotive tech student named Harry. I was talking about something in
class one day—and feeling very passionate about it. Maybe the importance
of literature or the written word—when Harry raised his hand. 

“Dr. B,” he said, “the only thing I need to learn how to write is ‘needs
brakes.’”

He was joking, of course. But he had a point, too: He wasn’t just there
to learn the art of writing—he was there to prepare himself for a
career.

Community colleges have always been about jobs—about meeting students
where they are and giving them the skills they need to build careers and
support their families.

They are committed to helping students no matter their income or
background, so they’ve been a leader when it comes to creating
innovative learning opportunities—like apprenticeships. And there is
potential for them to do even more in this area. That’s why I’m so
excited to join this group today.

Registered Apprenticeships provide clear pathways to jobs that pay good
wages. They allow students to earn while they learn. And they ensure
businesses have skilled employees in industries that are struggling to
find the right workers.

Joe made a promise to rebuild our middle class. It’s why he ran and it’s
the North star that has guided his agenda. And do you know what builds
the middle class?

Apprenticeships. Community colleges. Education and training. Together,
they are our most powerful engines of prosperity.

That’s why Joe made these opportunities key to so many parts of his
legislative agenda—his rescue plan, the infrastructure law, and the
Inflation Reduction Act.

I’ve already seen these efforts working at community colleges and
Fortune 500 companies alike. I’ve met parents who were able to start new
careers because they could get paid while they learn. I’ve met young
students who are filling critical nursing roles while they train for
their dream job.

Apprenticeships can change lives. They strengthen our workforce and our
economy.

So, I want to thank everyone who has joined the Apprenticeship
Ambassador Initiative and made commitments to expand these kinds of
opportunities. And I want to call on others to follow your lead and
create more career pathways in your communities.

I’m so proud of all that Joe has done to support Americans like my
students. And I’m proud to be a part of the college community that has
stepped up and become leaders.

Together, we can not only rebuild the middle class. We can give working
families the chance to find great careers and create a better and
brighter future for us all. 

Thank you.

\###
