---
date: '2022-09-16'
published_time: 2022-09-16 09:02:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/09/16/remarks-by-president-biden-at-the-45th-congressional-hispanic-caucus-institute-gala-to-kick-off-hispanic-heritage-month/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at the 45th Congressional Hispanic Caucus Institute\
  \ Gala to Kick Off Hispanic Heritage\_Month"
---
 
Walter E. Washington Convention Center  
Washington, D.C.  
   
(September 15, 2022)

8:29 P.M. EDT  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Hello, hello, hello.  (Applause.)  Folks, this happens
to be Nanette’s birthday.  (Applause.)  It’s hell when you turn 25, but
you know.  (Laughter.)  
  
We have a tradition to the Biden family: We sing “Happy Birthday.”  So,
let’s go.  Ready?  (Singing.)  *Happy birthday to you.  Happy birthday
to you.  Happy birthday, Nanette.  Happy birthday to you. * God love
you, kiddo.  (Applause.)  
  
Please have a seat if you have one.  (Laughter.)  
  
About a year and a half ago — is this on?  Hello, hello, hello — (the
microphone turns on) — whoa, whoa, whoa.  (Laughter.)  
  
About a year and a half ago, we were — it was a large crowd like this,
where they were outside.  I thought they had chairs and said, “Have a
seat.”  And the press said Biden was so stupid he didn’t even know
though they didn’t have any chairs.  But I’m glad you have some chairs. 
(Laughter.)  
  
Look, folks, I want to thank you and the members of the Congressional
Hispanic Caucus.  And I want to thank you for everyone being here
tonight.  This is a heck of a crowd.  
  
And Raul, the Caucus Chair, thank you.   
  
Also, you know, Albio, the Cuban born, came to United States at age 11,
served years 16 years in Congress.  And — and, you know, the idea is
that, you know, Lucille — a House icon of three decades, grandmother of
the DREAM Act.  You know, Congress is going to miss you both.  
  
Members of my Cabinet are also joining us.  In fact — give them a round
of applause.  You’re all going to miss them.  (Applause.)  
  
My Cabinet is here.  The Secretary of Health and Human Services, Xavier
Becerra — the honoree of tonight’s American Dream Medallion. 
(Applause.)  
  
All of you here tonight embody the same theme: Root in the Strength of
Achieving our Dreams.  That’s what I want to talk to you briefly about
tonight.   
  
The historic American Rescue Plan helped us emerge from the pandemic and
move from economic crisis to resurgence.  Secretary Becerra, I want to
tell you how that law of funding closed to — closed the — closed the
racial gap and vaccinated Hispanic Americans and how it helped more
Latinos gain health insurance now than ever before.  (Applause.)  
  
Senator Cardona — he’ll tell you how it helped to safely reopen our
schools — an absolute necessity — including 28 percent of public school
students who are Latino — 28 percent.  You’re all going to own the
country, man.  We better darn well make sure they have every opportunity
they have.  Not a joke.  (Applause.)  Imagine — imagine the opposition
talking about why it’s an important — it’s critically important.   
  
And we’ve invested $11 billion in Hispanic-serving institutions — the
largest investment in the future of Hispanic college students in our
entire history.  (Applause.)

With the help of all of you, we expanded the Child Tax Credit, helping
slash child poverty by over 40 percent among Latinos — the lowest ever —
the lowest rate ever.  (Applause.)  
  
Since I’ve been in office, we’ve created nearly 10 million jobs — a
record for any presidency at this point.  
  
We saw the biggest one-year drop in Hispanic unemployment on record —
the ligg- — biggest drop in unemployment.   
  
And Administrator Guzman, I want to tell you how the Hispanic
entrepreneurs are starting new businesses at the fastest rate in over a
decade.  (Applause.)  
  
And, folks, we made Puerto Rico’s economic recovery and development a
top priority.  (Applause.)  
  
I asked Deputy Secretary Don Graves to help me during the Detro- — get
Detroit back on track during the Great Recession.  And while I was Vice
President, he helped lead our efforts in Puerto Rico as well.  We are
committed.  We’re committed.   
  
Together, we passed a once-in-a-generation infrastructure law to
mobilize America’s roads, bridges, ports, airports.  It’s going to
replace poisonous lead pipes so every child in America — specifically
those in Hispanic communities, which are most often affected — can turn
on a faucet at home or school and drink clean water for God’s sake. 
(Applause.)  
  
And we’re going to deliver affordable, high-speed Internet to every
single household.  (Applause.)  Every household.  
  
And with your help, I signed the Inflation Reduction Act –one of the
most significant laws in our history.   
  
For too long, we’ve paid a higher price for prescription drugs than any
nation in the world.  And for years, as a senator and Vice President,
many of us have been trying to fix that.  We’ve been taking on Big
Pharma, but it always stood in the way.  
  
But not this year.  This year, the American people won and Big Pharma
lost.  (Applause.)  
  
Now Medicare will have the power to negotiate lower prescription drug
prices, and seniors will see out-of-pocket drug costs capped at $2,000 a
year no matter what their costs are — no matter what, no matter whether
they have drug — for cancer drugs or other expensive drugs.  Two
thousand a year maximum.   
  
And if you’re on Medicare and you have diabetes, your insulin is going
to be capped at $35 a month instead of three ti- — 30 times that. 
(Applause.)  
  
And for decades, climate deniers have blocked any meaningful progress
against climate crisis.  But not this year.  This year, the American
people won and the climate deniers lost.  (Applause.)  
  
Look, folks, the Inflation Reduction Act takes the most aggressive
action to confront our climate crisis ever.  It offers Hispanic families
thousands of dollars in energy savings, tax credits, rebates to buy new
efficient appliances, weatherize their home, purchase electric vehicles,
and so much more.   
  
And it provides — most important to me and my — in my state, we have
eighth-largest Black population, but — Hispanic and Black populations,
poor populations — those fenceline communities, those frontline
communities where have suffered most as a consequence of being smothered
by pollution.  They’re going to get rewarded first.  (Applause.)  
  
Folks, we’re going to be able to do all this while reducing — reducing
the deficit by $350 billion last year and nearly $1.5 trillion this
year.  Because of the Inflation Reduction Act, we expect to reduce it by
another $300 billion in the next decade, just because of that Act
alone.  
  
And as a result, we can afford to cancel $10,000 in student debt and
$20,000 if you’re a Pell Grant.  (Applause.)  
  
And by the way, tens of millions of Americans are making under 125
grand, and that means almost half Latino students with federal loans
will see their debt totally forgiven.  (Applause.)  That’s a
gamechanger.  It gives people a chance.   
  
And I’m proud that the Obama-Biden administration stood up for
DREAMers.  My predecessor tried to end DACA, but the Biden-Harris
administration is working to preserve it and fortify it.   
  
And with Secretary Mayorkas’s leadership, we’re committed to fixing the
immigration system.  
  
Instead of working with us on solutions, Republicans are playing
politics with human beings, using them as props.  What they’re doing is
simply wrong.  It’s un-American.  It’s reckless.   
  
And we have a process in place to manage migrants at the border.  We’re
working to make sure it’s safe and orderly and humane.   
  
Republican officials should not interfere with that process by waging a
politi- — these political stunts.  It’s long overdue for Senate
Republicans to come to the table, provide a pathway for citizenship for
DREAMers, those in temporary status, farmworkers, and essential
workers.   
  
We need to modernize our laws so businesses can get workers they need
and families don’t have to wait decades to be brought back together. 
It’s time to get it done.  (Applause.)  That’s why we have to win this
off-year election.   
  
And one more thing.  It’s long overdue for a National Museum of the
American Latino — long overdue — I mean it — (applause) — to take its
rightful place here in Washington, where it belongs.   
  
Look, a few days after the massacre in Uvalde, Texas, my wife Jill and I
visited that school memorial.  We spent four hours with the victims’
families.  We attended services at Sacred Heart Catholic Church.  
  
Just as we were leaving, a grandmother who lost her granddaughter came
up to me, coming down the aisle in church.  And she handed me a
handwritten note.  And it read, “Erase the invisible line that’s
dividing this nation.”  “Erase the invisible line that’s dividing this
nation.”

Whether it’s for the people of Uvalde or El Paso or all the other places
that never make the news, together with you, we are erasing the
invisible line.   
  
Together, we passed and signed the first meaningful gun safety law in 30
years.  (Applause.)   
  
And I want to make it clear to you: I’m not stopping here.  We’re going
to ban assault weapons, as I did when I was a senator, and that’s going
to end.  Because when we banned it, mass murders — mass murders
stopped.  And when we changed it, it went back again.  
  
Let me close with this — I know you’ve been here a long time.  During
the week of Fourth of July, I had the honor of bestowing the
Presidential Medal of Freedom on 17 distinguished Americans — two them
including friends of this institute: Raul of the National Council of La
Raza and Juliet Garcia, one of our top, top college administrators —
nation’s administrators.  Their life’s work reflects the greatest
strength of “We, the People.”   
  
You know, we’re the most unique nation on Earth.  We’re not a product of
our ethnicity or our religion or geography.  We are a product of our
Constitution.  We’re uniquely organized on an idea, an idea — the only
nation in the history of the world.  And the idea is that: We hold these
truths to be self-evident, that all men and women are created equal,
endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights, including
life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.   
  
We’ve never fully lived up to that, but we’ve never, ever walked away
from it.  And so, I would respectfully suggest it’s responsibility of
your organization and every other good organization in this country to
make it real.   
  
The nation is always, always a work in progress, creating possibilities
and fulfillment of promise.  That’s been the American story, rooted in
the strength of achieving our dreams.   
  
I know it’s been really a hard few years.  But I stand here today more
optimistic about the future that I’ve been in my whole career.   
  
We just have to remember who we are.  We are the United States of
America.  And there’s nothing — nothing beyond our capacity if we work
together.  So let’s keep working together and get it done. 
(Applause.)  
  
God bless you all.  And may God protect our troops.   
  
Thank you for letting me interrupt your dinner.  Thank you, thank you,
thank you.  (Applause.)  
  
8:41 P.M. EDT
