---
date: '2022-09-26'
modified_time: 2022-09-26 14:18:44-04:00
published_time: 2022-09-26 14:18:43-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/09/26/remarks-by-president-biden-honoring-the-2021-world-series-champions-the-atlanta-braves/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden Honoring the 2021 World Series Champions, the\
  \ Atlanta\_Braves"
---
 
East Room

12:07 P.M. EDT  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  What a big deal being here for the World Champions.  
  
Please, have a seat.  Thank you.  Thank you, thank you, thank you.  
  
Well, welcome to the White House — (applause) — the 2021 World Champion
Atlanta Braves!  (Applause.)   
  
Got some guys over there too.  
  
I was telling the guys in — back in the other side of the building that
I married a Philly girl.  (Laughter.)  And she’s smarter than I am, and
she’s hell of a lot better looking.  And like every Philly fan, she’s
convinced she knows more about everything in sports than anybody else
(inaudible).  (Laughter.)  And these guys beat the Phillies last night
8-7.  (Laughter.)  I love them.  
  
But, Boss, I thought I was going to be quarantined today.  (Laughter.)  
  
Anyway, I have to be careful how nice I am to these guys today, and
especially since last night.  (Laughter.)  
  
We’re joined by so many friends from Atlanta, starting with the former
Mayor, Keisha Lance Bottoms.  Stand up, Keisha.  (Applause.)  Keisha now
works full-time in the Executive Office Building with me, and she’s the
best.  She’s the best.  And she — she took over from Cedric Richmond,
who was, as he says, a Morehouse Man, played baseball at Morehouse. 
He’s now at the Democratic State — National Committee.  
  
We’ve also got Mayor Andre Dickens.   
  
MAYOR DICKENS:  Right here.  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  There you go, Mayor.  (Applause.)   
  
But I want you to know — Lisa Cupid, the Cobb County Commissioner, she’s
got the stadium.  (Applause.)   
  
And from the Georgia Congressional delegation, Representatives
Bourdeaux, Williams, and Carter are all here.  Stand up, guys. 
(Applause.)   
  
Atlanta is a great sports city — American sports city.  And the Braves
are a big reason for that.  
  
This team has literally been part of the American history for over 150
years.  The only franchise to field players in every single season since
pro baseball began in <s>1870</s> \[the 1870s\].  It’s pretty amazing. 
(Applause.)   
  
My grandfather was an All-American football player at Santa Clara, and
he was a newspaper guy up in Scranton, Pennsylvania.  His name was
Ambrose Finnegan.  And when it was the Boston Braves, he didn’t like
it.  (Laughter.)  But at any rate, that’s another story.  (Laughter.)  
  
They’ve all — this team is defined by the courage of Hank Aaron, the
Home Run King and 25-time All-Star — (applause) — 25 times.  And Hank
Aaron shattered a lot of records, but he shattered them in racism as
well, with dignity and with class.   
  
And, you know, it’s been celebrated for success in the ‘90s — five times
World Series — five times World Series in a decade; 14 straight division
titles.  And now, the Braves will be forever remembered for the
unstoppable, joyful run that this team made last year — and, I would
say, “improbable” run at the time.   
  
It was a rough start, plagued by injuries.  The All-Star break, not one
day of a winning record.  Given a 0.4 percent chance of winning on CNN. 
No, I’m only joking.  (Laughter.)  I listen to all the percentages on
CNN, you know?  (Laughter.)  My batting average isn’t nearly as good.   
  
At any rate — but the franchise never quit.  It never gave in.  You
rebuilt the whole outfield practically overnight.  Play by play, inning
by inning, you grinded and you ground it out, and you did it together.  
  
You made the playoffs and beat the Brav- — the Brewers and the Dodgers. 
And then you beat the Astros to win it all.  Forever known as the “Upset
Kings of October.”  (Applause.)   One of the greatest — one of history’s
greatest turnarounds. First title in 26 years.  
  
But none of it came easy.  People counted you out.  Heck, I — I know
something about being counted out.  (Laughter.)  And I know in Georgia,
you show up when it counts.  (Applause.)  When it counts.  You never
give up.  You never give in.  As my mother would say, “You keep the
faith.”  
  
This team proved that Hank Aaron — what Hank Aaron once said.  He said,
“There is no shortcut in life.  You have to take it one step at a time
and work hard.  And you have to give it — give back.”  
  
Well, you know, this team has done it all.  And that’s what this team
does on the field and off the field through the community service: it
gives back, channeling its reach — its reach and resources to feed the
hungry, support our veterans, give kids a safe place to play, and so
much more.  
  
Bringing people together, inspiring us to do better by the power of your
example — that’s sports.  That’s America.  And that’s why I’m honored to
host the 2021 Braves who are here at the White House.  Fellas,
congratulations.  
  
And, Mr. Chairman, the floor is yours.  (Applause.)   
  
MR. MCGUIRK:  The first thing I would say on behalf of all of my
brethren behind me is: Wow.  What a thrill to be here at the White
House.

I want to start off paying a little bit of a compliment to our team, as
President Biden has just done.  They played an extra-innings game last
night.  We got in hours late from when — they’ve been doing a lot of
traveling.  You cannot believe, at this point in the season, how tired
they are.  They won 8-7 in the 11th inning last night.  (Applause.)

These guys — but — but what —

THE PRESIDENT:  I slept in the guest room.  (Laughter.)

MR. MCGUIRK:  As the President says, this group never quits.  It is
unbelievable.  It is the metaphor of how we got here today.

We’re — this group shows up, does their job every day.  It’s an amazing
group of men.  And — (applauds) — yeah.  (Applause.)

Back to President Biden.  Thank you so much for your kind remarks.  On
behalf of the entire Braves organization and all of our players, we want
to thank you officially for hosting us and celebrating the 2021 World
Series championship here at the White House.  We’re pinching ourselves.

And, Mr. President, I’d like to thank one of our Atlanta friends, Keisha
Bottoms — former mayor of Atlanta who is on your staff.  Her helpfulness
in getting this done made it happen.  Thank you, Keisha.  (Applause.)

And as the President so aptly talked about, last year’s championship was
so special, because on August 1st, we were playing below .500 ball, and
we were no one’s pick for the postseason.

But thanks to some savvy moves by Alex at the trade deadline, which we
know well, and the great leadership on the field by Snit, we came back
and we won our fourth straight division title, beating three incredible
teams that the President has just outlined — the Brewers, the Dodgers,
and the Astros — on our way to winning the 2021 World Series
championship.

You know, a little aside: We still think we had a special angel looking
over us, having our recently passed friend, Hank Aaron, pulling the
strings from on high.  There’s no question Hank was a part of what we
did.  And he’d have been there every step of the way with us if he was
here.  (Applause.)

In a few days, Mayor Dickens — a few days after we landed back in
Atlanta, we welcomed 2 million fans along the parade route, which showed
how the team brought everyone back together after the very trying years
of the COVID years.

And so, finally, Mr. President, we have a very young and very talented
roster, and we hope this isn’t a one-and-done visit to your home. 
(Laughter.)  In short, we plan to be back.  (Applause.)   
  
And now I’d like to invite our President of Baseball Operations, Alex
Anthopoulos, and our manager, Brian Snitker, to present a special gift
to the President from our team.  (Applause.)

(The President is presented with an Atlanta Braves
jersey.) (Applause.)  
  
12:18 P.M. EDT
