---
date: '2022-09-26'
published_time: 2022-09-26 20:50:32-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/09/26/remarks-by-homeland-security-advisor-liz-sherwood-randall-at-the-first-meeting-of-the-presidents-national-infrastructure-advisory-council/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Homeland Security Advisor Liz Sherwood-Randall at the First Meeting\
  \ of the President\u2019s National Infrastructure Advisory\_Council"
---
 
Thank you, Erin, for the introduction and for formally calling the
inaugural meeting of President Biden’s National Infrastructure Advisory
Council to order.

Welcome to the White House – and thank you for committing to this vital
endeavor that is so important to the President, the Administration, and
to literally every community across this Nation.

As the President’s Homeland Security Advisor, it is a privilege to
launch this first convening with this newly appointed group of leaders
from across our critical infrastructure sectors.  We need YOUR expertise
to effectively meet one of the toughest challenges we face in America
today, which is ensuring the integrity and resilience of our nation’s
lifeline sectors. 

Just look at today’s headlines: from Puerto Rico to Florida, we have
citizens recovering from or anticipating the potentially devastating
impacts of extreme weather on their critical infrastructure. 

And as you heard in your intelligence briefing, our global rivals are
intent on developing means of disrupting our way of life by threatening
our critical infrastructure.

Since the NIAC was first established in the wake of 9/11, this group has
had the formidable task of driving new, practical solutions to the full
spectrum of risks facing our nation — from extreme weather events to
cyber intrusions to physical attacks. 

We knew we needed to lift up this effort when we took office in January
2021, and in a long and rigorous process we built a new team to serve on
this Council. The President took time to review and consider every
nominee for this opportunity to serve.

Although he will not join us today, he will follow the work of this
group closely in the months to come and we will look for an opportunity
for you to brief him as your recommendations are solidified.

To that end, I would like to provide some context on the President’s
views and priorities regarding critical infrastructure, and his
expectations for this body before I turn the floor over to my closest
colleague and great friend Secretary Mayorkas to formally swear you in.

And these views are shaped in part by the experiences and challenges
we’ve faced over the past 20 months together.

This includes an unprecedented range of extreme weather events across
our country. These have included the early February 2021 Texas Ice Storm
when we were all new in our roles, the devastating and protracted 2021
wildfire season and the fires we have faced across the Southwest this
year, Hurricane Ida that left a path of destruction from Louisiana to
New York city last year, Hurricane Fiona in Puerto Rico just over a week
ago, where nearly all of the island’s 1.5 million customers lost power
in an instant, and ongoing sweltering heat and drought in the West that
threatens lives and livelihoods. 

In addition to extreme weather events, we are obviously facing
escalating cyber threats to our critical infrastructure, some of which
you heard about in today’s classified briefing. These threats are being
compounded by the growing convergence between our cyber and physical
domains. 

And we also are preparing for the reality of physical attacks on our
infrastructure, whether from outside our country or within. 

These threats to our soft underbelly first became evident to me when I
served in the Obama Administration and the Metcalf Substation was
attacked in the San Francisco Bay Area.  That was a wake-up call that
led me to launch and lead a major effort to strengthen resilience in the
energy sector, which has been in the forefront of driving innovation to
harden our infrastructure against the full spectrum of threats we face. 
I worked closely on that endeavor with several of the participants in
this group.

In this Administration, incidents like last year’s ransomware attack on
the Colonial Pipeline demonstrate that we can no longer treat something
exclusively as a cyber or physical incident.  To the contrary,
everything is potentially a “hybrid” incident with very real, tangible
impacts on our citizens and on our economy.

The President’s approach to all of these events impacting American
communities has been consistent: we must lean forward to do everything
we can to *prepare* for these events before they happen to prevent them
if we can, but if we cannot, then to be ready to rally the full strength
of the Federal government to do everything feasible to alleviate
suffering and accelerate recovery.

And he always emphasizes a core value: that when disaster strikes, there
are no red states or blue states, only people urgently in need of help.

Yet while well-coordinated preparedness and response has been
foundational to our efforts, we know that when it comes to critical
infrastructure, there will always be threats that we cannot prevent
*tomorrow* and so we need to be building that resilience today*.* And if
we build that resilience, the impact of what we cannot prevent will be
less severe and communities will recover more quickly.

It’s why the President made game changing investments in infrastructure
and community r*esilience*, from the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law that
you will hear more about today from White House Infrastructure
Implementation Coordinator Mitch Landrieu, to the recently enacted
Inflation Reduction Act, to increased investments in community
resilience. 

We are committed to making sure that the dollars we spend on
infrastructure are invested with resilience as a key feature – and that
it is engineered in from the beginning of the design phase. To do this,
we need to make sure that new investments in clean energy and other
modern infrastructure don’t create new attack surfaces and
vulnerabilities, and instead result in safer and more secure systems
that Americans can rely on in times of crisis. 

In designing and administering programs and distributing assistance
under the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law (BIL), my team here at the White
House, in close coordination with Mitch Landrieu, are asking Federal
agencies to incorporate the principles of all-hazards resilience,
cybersecurity, risk reduction, and total Lifecyle resilience into their
program guidance.

In an effort to build in more resilience, we also need to consider ways
to address the tension between “build back fast” and Build Back Better.
For example, when we restore essential services to a community in the
wake of a disaster, we want to actually leave that community stronger
than it was before.  We’re working on that in real time in Puerto
Rico.   Fundamentally, we need to build more resilient infrastructure to
withstand future threats and simultaneously expand the economic
opportunities that come with more modern infrastructure – like
broadband.

And this is where the NIAC can help.

We need your advice and expertise to help us navigate the evolving
threat landscape and to help us best support our critical infrastructure
owners and operators.  And in the spirit of this body, we cannot do this
work alone. 

Collaboration with the private sector, think tanks and universities, and
our state, local, tribal, and territorial government partners is
absolutely essential, as we work to address these threats and strengthen
the Nation’s critical infrastructure.  Most of our critical
infrastructure is in private hands, so we literally cannot get this job
done with you.

I will conclude with just one final observation. The challenges to our
critical infrastructure are severe – and will be exacerbated as our
adversaries become more sophisticated and climate change continues to
accelerate. 

But as we have seen over the past year and a half—and I have personally
seen over my years in public service – from working as a
twenty-six-year-old for President Biden in the Senate, to several years
as Deputy Energy Secretary in the Obama Administration, to my current
role as the Homeland Security Advisor, we are at our best as a Nation
when we come together to do hard things.  And I believe that the hardest
things are the most worth working on, which is why we are here together
today.

It now gives me great pleasure to introduce our Secretary of Homeland
Security Alejandro Mayorkas to say a few words and to formally swear you
all in.  Secretary Mayorkas, on behalf of the President, I would like to
thank you and the team at CISA for your leadership and support.
