---
date: '2022-09-26'
published_time: 2022-09-26 18:22:43-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/09/26/remarks-by-president-biden-at-the-third-meeting-of-the-white-house-competition-council/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at the Third Meeting of the White\_House Competition\_\
  Council"
---
 
State Dining Room

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, I thank the team for being here.  I know a few
folks who are unable to join us today because of Rosh Hashanah.  And I’d
like to wish a happy holiday to all those who are celebrating.

And, folks, we meet at a moment, to state the obvious, of global
uncertainty and — in countries around the world grappling with elevated
inflation and — and an ongoing war in Ukraine is presenting challenges
as well.

But amidst all of that, here’s what I want the American people to know:
Because of their resilience — the American people’s resilience — and
because of the economic strategy we pursued — pursued, the United States
of America is in a stronger position than any other country to navigate
these global challenges, period.

Jobs are up, incomes are up, people are back to work, and American
manufacturing is roaring back. 

(Clears throats.)  Excuse me for the cold.

We’re taking inflation very seriously by enacting policies to bring down
costs for people.  And I have to admit to you, my focus is primarily on
working-class and middle-class folks.  They’re the ones that get hurt
the most, in my view.

We now pay the highest prices for prescription drugs in the world.  And
we’re going to bring those costs down, make it easier for people to pay
their bills by allowing Medicare to negotiate their drug prices.  And
we’ve passed that already, but they’re not going to see it immediately;
it’s going to take a moment.

But by January, no one is going to pay more than $2,000 a year, if
they’re on Medicare, for their prescription drugs, negotiating prices
across the board for an awful lot of other medicines as well.  And so,
it’s going to be a real gamechanger. 

The bottom line for people on Medicare: They’re going to have less
inflation; they’re not going to be paying as much money out.

And, you know, the — in addition to that, a big part of how we’re going
to keep making progress is by increasing competition in the economy. 
That’s why we got the Competition Council here.  And it starts with
energy prices.

We’ve made historic progress.  We’ve made historic progress with the
price of gas down $1.30 since the beginning of the summer.  In some few
states, it’s below three bucks.  It’s, you know, in the low threes in
most places, although there are some fires and some other problems that
had to do with refining capacity in — in the far west, in the middle
west.  But we’re going to deal with that as well.

And last month, the price of oil worldwide is down, la- –just last
month; in fact, lower than any price since Putin invaded Ukraine.  And —
and we’re working off of that, as opposed to anything else.

We haven’t seen the lower prices reflected at the pump though. 
Meanwhile, oil and gas companies are still making record profits —
billions of dollars in profit.  But guess what?  The price of oil comes
down.  Guess how long — don’t you think the price at the pump should
come down?  The price of gallon of gasoline.  But it takes a long time
for that to happen in relative terms.  And they’re making a lot of
profit, and the public is paying as part of the inflation.

And — but, look, my message is simple.  To the companies running gas
stations and setting those prices at the pump: Bring down the prices
you’re charging at the pump to reflect the cost you pay for the
product.  Do it now.  Do it now.  Not a month from now — do it now.  And
it’s going to save people a lot of money.

A little over a year ago, I signed an executive order to promote
competition with a goal of lowering prices for consumers and raising the
wages of workers and encouraging innovation in the economy.  We made
some real progress.  
  
     When companies have to compete — it’s a simple proposition.  When
they have to compete, they sell — they make better products and — guess
what? — the price goes down.  It doesn’t go up when there’s
competition.  
  
     And we’ve gotten a lot done already.  Today, I’m charging everyone
at this table to go even further than we’ve gone so far.  
  
     I’m directing members of the council to sharpen their focus —
sharpen their focus in lowering the costs for families.  Because what’s
inflation?  Inflation is, at the end of the month, do you have less
money from your paycheck or more money in your <s>flaysheck</s>
\[paycheck\]?  
  
     I mean, the way that people — is how it’s calculated by the vast
majority of American people.  And so we got to lower costs for
families.  
  
     And this isn’t some — just some abstract goal, because the problem
isn’t just theoretical.  Like many of you, I grew up in a family where
when the price of gasoline went up, it was a conversation at the
breakfast table.  It was a conversation that they — for real. 

And families all across America, at the end of the month, are trying to
figure out how they are going to pay their monthly bills.  And they’re
not going to have anything left over.  As my dad would say, “Is there
going to be any breathing room when it was all over?”  
  
     And what we’re talking about today is something that’s weighing
down family budgets: unnecessary hidden fees — unnecessary hidden fees,
known in the parlance as “junk fees,” are hitting families at a time
when they can’t afford it.  They shouldn’t be paying it anyway, in my
view — but at a time when they can’t afford it.  
  
     And let me give you an example.  It hits middle- and working-class
families especially hard.  Things like overdraft or — on your — on your
checking account or your credit card is fee late or the huge termination
fees where they’re going to stop you from switching from a cellphone —
you have one cellphone, you want to go to another cellph- — you want to
go to another provider.  
  
     Well, guess what?  There’s an incredible fee you have to pay to
terminate your, I mean — to terminate, you got to pay a fee to go to
somebody else for a better deal.  
  
     This council is going to come back to me — “God willing and the
crick not rising,” as the old saying goes — with a plan for eliminating
and reducing fees.  
  
     Families shouldn’t have to pay these fees.  No one is sneaking
surprise charges into bills, like finding out you have to pay a $50
processing fee for a hotel room that you’re trying to book — a
processing fee.  You find out later.  Now no — no more hiding the price
that you — that you’re paying and not letting you know what the hidden
fees are.  
  
     And all — it’s all taking money out of the pockets of average
Americans.  And thanks to our efforts so far, three quarters of the
country’s 20 largest banks are getting rea- — getting rid of fees for
bounced checks.  The average fee for a bounced check was 50 bucks. 
They’re getting rid of them.  And that matters.  
  
     And if we do all this, we’re on track to lower overdraft fees —
catch this.  I know the right departments know this.   But lower
overdraft fees by 50 — or, excuse me, by $3 billion a year — $3 billion
a year for pri- — for primarily middle-class and lower-middle-class
families who are paying, because they’re the ones usually — are the ones
in a position that bounce on a check.  
  
     My administration is also cracking down on the airlines.  
  
     Last month, if your flight was canceled or delayed, no top airline
explicitly guaranteed to cover your mi- — meals if you were away from
home and only one guaranteed free rebooking, even — even though — even
the — when the delay and cancellation was totally their fault.  
  
     I joke now, you know, for the first time in a long time, a plane
doesn’t leave until I get there — because it’s Air Force One.  But all
kidding aside, you’re taking your families somewhere and you’re in a
situation where, you know, you — they — they cancel on you, and you have
to pay a fee to rebook.  Come on, man.  No, really.  It’s just — it’s
simply not fair.  It’s not fair.

Secretary Buttigieg called them out, and guess what happened.  Now 9
airlines cover hotels and meals when you’re away from home and 10 rebook
for free.  You know, it could have cost you up to $200 to have to rebook
a flight, and that’s $200 you can pay your monthly bills or your
electric bill or whatever for it with.  And that’s progress.

And today the Department of Transportation is releasing new rules to
require airlines and search websites to disclose these fees upfront, so
you have a choice to go to the airline that doesn’t charge the fee to
change — that doesn’t have the fee.  That’s competition.

Fees for things like sitting next to your child on an air flight or
checking bags or changing your ticket.  By the way, most people would
help pay your fee if you’d sit the child somewhere else.  (Laughter.) 
But all kidding aside, think about it.  Think about it.  What — I mean,
that — anyway.  I don’t want to get started. 

But that’s competition.  Fees for things like sitting next to your
child, checking your bag, et cetera.  You should know the full cost of
your ticket right when you’re comparison shopping to begin with where
you’re — what airline you’re going to fly with so you can pick the
ticket that actually is the best deal for you.

Federal Communications Commission is doing the same thing for fees for
Internet companies charge. 

And the Department of Agriculture is taking steps today to promote
competition in the meat and poultry markets, which the Secretary of
Agriculture was explaining to me over a year and a half ago. And that
is, they’re basically — you know, you heard me say it before, there are
basically four — (inaudible) — there are four major meat processing
companies and — processing chickens as well. 

There are middlemen who buy the livestock from the ranchers and then
sell the meat to the grocery stores.  And because four of them control
80 percent of the market, they control the price.  So they make more,
and the ranches and consumers get less.  The rancher gets less for his
product, and the consumer gets less for what they’re buying.

Several months ago, I directed the administration to take action on this
issue.  And today, we’re following through on that commitment by
providing grants to small meat processors so they can compete with the
big four and ultimately help provide competition to lower the cost at
grocery stores.  And I’m expecting this council to build on this
momentum and deliver more concrete results by the next time we meet.

I’ve said it before — before: Capitalism without competition isn’t
capitalism; it’s exploitation.  Capitalism without competition is not —
not capitalism; it’s exploitation.  And we’re building an economy that
works for everyone.  That’s what we’re about at this table.

And thank everyone here for the work you’ve done on these issues, and I
look forward to the progress for our next meeting report. 

And now let’s get down to business.  I’m going to turn it over to Brian
so you can start the meeting and keep us going.  Thank you all very
much.

4:42 P.M. EDT
