---
date: '2022-09-20'
published_time: 2022-09-20 17:38:50-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/09/20/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-in-roundtable-discussion-with-student-leaders-at-claflin-university/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris in Roundtable Discussion with Student Leaders\
  \ at Claflin\_University"
---
 
* Claflin University  
*Orangeburg, South Carolina**

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Well, good morning to everyone.  I want to thank
the student leaders who have joined us today for a very important
conversation.  The Secretary and I traveled here this morning from
Washington, D.C., with the specific purpose of hearing from you about
how you are thinking about what should be the priorities for our nation
and our world.  
  
So, I’m very much looking forward to this conversation.  I’m honored to
be at Claflin University, which has a distinction of being a center of
academic excellence in our country.   
  
And I thank the president of Claflin for joining us this morning and for
the work that you do.  Proudly, he has shared with me that Claflin is
among the top 10 HBCUs in the country.  And as a proud graduate of an
HBCU, I understand what that means.  So, thank you all.  
  
So, our student leaders — let’s think about this.  When people are in
college, they’re usually in the age range of about 18 years old to 24
years old.  And it’s a very specific phase of life, 18 through 24.  It’s
a phase of life where an individual becomes an adult in so many ways
that is more than just chronological.  It is about a phase of life where
people, with the blessing of being in a college environment, have the
opportunity to meet people they may not have otherwise met.  They have
the opportunity to expand their mind based on their interests and their
curiosity and their passions.   
  
It is a phase of life where individuals start to develop and decide who
they are in relation to the world — and certainly in relation to their
nation.   
  
It is a phase of life where when an individual has decided to go to
college, it is also about the next initiation in their birthright of
leadership and the decision they have made to accelerate their
leadership role, not only in their family and community but in our
nation.  
  
So for all of those reasons, I’m very happy to be here and to have this
conversation.  I think about it on a number of levels.  
  
Today, we are celebrating the national “Get Out and…” — our registration
— voter registration.  And so when I think about that and I think about
the last big election we had in 2020, I’m proud to report what you all
know, which is that over 50 percent — over half of the people in our
country, who at the time were between 18 and 24 years old, voted.  Over
half.  It was a record high.  
  
And these young voters at the time told us what they wanted.  They put
in an order for what they wanted to see in their country.  They said,
“We want to see college be more affordable,” which includes knowing that
they can graduate from college, they can leave college not being unduly
burdened by student loan debt.  So the President just signed an order
that says that students will have $10,000 of their college loan debt
relieved.  And if they’re a Pell Grant recipient, that would be
$20,000.   
  
Students said when they voted, and young people said when they voted,
“We want to know that you are dealing with the issue of Pell Grants,
because we need more in terms of Pell Grant benefits to meet the mark of
what we need so that we don’t have to struggle to pay rent or buy food
or buy books and school supplies.”  And so we have increased Pell Grants
by $400 per student per year, and we are — we intend to double that in
the coming years.  
  
Students said and young voters said, “We want to know that you’re going
to invest in our centers of academic excellence and, in particular, our
HBCUs and minority-serving institutions.”  And so we have invested over
$5 billion to put the resources into these institutions that are putting
the resources into the future leaders of our country.  
  
You all said and young voters said when they voted in 2020, “This crisis
that is called climate change is real, that the leaders from years
before have probably sold us short in terms of taking it seriously,
understanding the urgency of it.  And we want leadership that will
accelerate the resources we put into saving this precious planet.”  And
so we put an historic investment, the largest in history, into dealing
with the climate crisis: thirty- — $370 billion.  And it includes the
largest investment in environmental justice in history.  
  
Young people said, “We are entrepreneurial, we got ideas, we are
innovators, but we know that there is a real divide, in particular, a
racial wealth gap in America, on many levels, including when it comes to
access to capital.”  So we invested an additional $12 billion into
community banks, because we know community banks are in the community
and understand the needs and desires of that community as well as the
talent and capacity of community, and that access to capital should not
be a barrier to innovation and creativity and what we know those small
businesses are, which is part of the economic lifeblood of a community
and, by extension, all of society.  
  
Young people are leading on all of these issues, including one of the
biggest issues that is affecting our nation that, frankly, I think we
are just not talking enough about, which is the issue of mental
health.  
  
But actually, I think in so many ways, our young leaders are leading on
that in a way that some other leaders may not be, because we recognize
in particular that over the last couple of years, through the pandemic,
we literally told people to isolate, which means people were literally
by themselves, suffering from all that that pandemic represented in
terms of loss of life, loss of normalcy — for so many people, loss of a
job.  
  
And so the effects of that all still linger in a very profound way.  In
fact, three in five college students has been diagnosed with some level
of need for mental healthcare.  
  
And that’s just among those who have been diagnosed.  I have long
believed that when it comes to the healthcare policy in our country, we
still have so much more and we still must do so much better when it
comes to mental health.  And we must realize it is healthcare.  We’ve
got to stop acting as though the body starts from the neck down.  We
also need healthcare from the neck up.  And there should be no stigma
about that.  People should not be made to silently suffer.  
  
So all of these issues are issues that I look forward to talking with
the leaders here about in terms of the work we are doing, how it is
affecting you, and how we can do better — because you are our future. 
And when I look at each of you, I know our future is bright.   
  
So, with that, I’m going to pass the microphone to the Secretary of
Education, Secretary Cardona.   
  
                               END  
  
