---
date: '2022-09-21'
published_time: 2022-09-21 19:23:06-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/09/21/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-in-press-call-on-the-emergency-capital-investment-program-ecip/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris in Press Call on the Emergency Capital Investment\
  \ Program\_(ECIP)"
---
 
*Via Teleconference*

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Senator Warner.  And I praise you for
your leadership in the Senate.  When we served there together, you were
so passionate and enthusiastic about the importance of the work and the
possibilities that exist to grow the work and, obviously, the impact
that we can have in so doing.  
  
So I thank you for your leadership and your friendship.  
  
And greetings to everyone.  It’s great to be with everyone today.  As we
know — you know, I’ll start with just a basic principle that I think we
all agree with and share, which is: America is a nation that is powered
by the ambition and the aspirations of her people.   
  
And at the source of the spirit behind so much of this work is just that
— it is about the ambitions and aspirations of the American people, of
the entrepreneurs that are living among us, and doing what we can to
invest in their capacity knowing that we all benefit from that work.  
  
And the ambition is the ambition to start a business, to own a home, to
get an education.  And that is what I think we all believe drives
America forward.  We know the benefit is that it creates jobs, it sparks
further innovation, it expands the economy, and it makes our nation more
competitive.  
  
But achieving that success requires access to capital — access to
capital.  To buy, for example, inventory, you need capital; to make a
down payment, to hire employees.   
  
So, to grow, these entrepreneurial, smart people simply need access to
capital.  They’ve got the ideas.  They’ve got the ability and the
wherewithal to do the hard work, but they need access to capital.  And
the issue here is that we know not everyone in our nation has equal
access to this essential support.  
  
Consider, for example, that Black entrepreneurs are three times more
likely to report that they did not apply for loans for fear of being
turned away by a bank.  And it is usually because they have anecdotal
evidence — based on relatives, neighbors, and friends being turned away
— that they believe they also will be turned away.  
  
     Black and Latino homeowners are rejected by traditional financial
institutions at a higher rate when applying for home loans.  And this is
the case, by the way, even when they have credit profiles that are
similar to other applicants.   
  
For many Asian American business owners, in particular immigrant
business owners, language barrier limits their ability to access capital
and banking services.  And people who live in rural communities,
including many Native Americans, often lack access to traditional
financial services of any kind.  
  
I have worked, along with Mark Warner and many — and the honorable
Maxine Waters and so many others.  For years, we have been working on
these issues and to address these disparities.  As Senator Warner said,
together with my then and — and Senate colleagues Cory Booker, Senator
Warren, Chuck Schumer, and then, of course, Chairwoman Waters, we
invested $12 billion in community lenders, which are financial
institutions that predominantly serve overlooked and underserved
communities.  
  
In December of last year, with Secretary Janet Yellen, I announced that
nearly $9 billion of that $12 billion investment would be made available
through the Emergency Capital Investment Program, or ECIP, as Senator
Warner described.  And we encouraged community banks to apply.  
  
As Senator Warner described, we have distributed almost $9 billion to
162 community banks across our nation, and that is the — that’s the
announcement we are making today: that we have distributed almost $9
billion to 162 community banks across our nation.  That is almost $9
billion on the ground in communities right now.  
  
For example, in North Dakota, Native American Bank lent $10 million to
help fund an opioid addiction treatment facility on Tribal lands.  In
Georgia, Carver Bank lent just over half a million dollars to help a
Black-owned housing developer build more affordable housing.  In
Mississippi, Hope Credit Union, led by the great Bill Bynum, lent
$10,000 to a Black- and woman-owned coffee company to help them
expand.  
  
So, in conclusion, I’ll say that, today, in communities across our
nation, small businesses, non-profits, entrepreneurs, and community
organizations are using the ECIP funds to create opportunity and
prosperity, not only for their community but for our nation.  
  
President Biden and I are fighting to build a nation in which every
person, no matter where they start, has an opportunity to succeed and
thrive.  Community banks are essential to that goal.  And so we, of
course, remain committed to working with our colleagues and doing the
work to expand these investments.  
  
And I thank you all for your time.  And to the partners, I thank you all
for the work that you are doing to make this so successful.  
  
                               END
