---
date: '2023-10-10'
published_time: 2023-10-10 20:45:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2023/10/10/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-national-security-advisor-jake-sullivan-9/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and National Security\
  \ Advisor Jake\_Sullivan"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

2:50 P.M. EDT

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Good afternoon, everyone.

Q Good afternoon.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: As you all know, this morning, President Biden and Vice
President Harris spoke to Prime Minister Netan- — Netanyahu. This was
the President’s third conversation with him since this crisis began.

President Biden and Vice President Harris continue to meet with the
national security team to receive updates and give direction on next
steps. The President held 17 calls and meetings over Saturday, Sunday,
and Monday with his national security team. The President and the Vice
President have held more than three dozen meetings, briefings, and calls
since the attacks — since the attacks on Israel began.

The President will continue to be relentless in ensuring that Israel and
the Israeli people have what they need in support from the United States
to defend themselves in the days, weeks, months, and years ahead — as
you all know, you just heard directly from the President.

And I have the National Security Advisor, Jake Sullivan, here to take
any of your questions on this issue.

MR. SULLIVAN: Thanks, everybody. I’ll make a few comments, and then I’d
be happy to take your questions.

Like many of you, we’ve watched in horror and anguish the scenes of
butchery against innocent civilians at the hands of Hamas terrorists in
Israel. And the more we learn, the greater our grief.

More than a thousand men, women, and children were slaughtered in their
homes, on their streets, in desert fields — and among them, at least 14
Americans.

We mourn for all their lives, and we’re actively working with Israelis
to determine the whereabouts of the missing, including missing American
citizens.

As the President just said, what we’ve seen from Ha- — Hamas these past
few days was the same evil and barbarity that we’ve seen from ISIS. The
unspeakable horrors they perpetrated on innocent people — women,
children, the elderly, babies — these were the scenes we saw in Iraq and
Syria as ISIS rampaged through.

As President Biden said, this is not some distant tragedy. The bonds
between Israel and America run long and they run deep. And we stand with
Israel not just in these dark days but at all times.

As Karine just said, the President has been deeply engaged and giving
direction to his national security team to take action to support Israel
in its hour of need.

At his direction, the United States has surged ammunition and
interceptors for Iron Dome. And the President spoke with Prime Minister
Netanyahu just a little while ago to talk about additional capabilities
that Israel will need. And he pledged that American planes will be
landing in Israel with those capabilities in the days ahead.

And now, at the direction of the President, we are working with Congress
to make sure that Israel maintains supply of these critical assets to
defend its cities and its citizens, as well as the many U.S. citizens
who live, work, and travel in Israel.

Also at President Biden’s direction, the U.S. military has enhanced its
force posture in the region to strengthen our deterrence, including the
movement of a carrier strike group into the Eastern Mediterranean. And
we are prepared to move additional assets as necessary.

Let me be clear: We did not move the carrier for Hamas. We moved the
carrier to send a clear message of deterrence to other states or
non-state actors that might seek to widen this war.

The President has also tasked us with engaging in contingency planning
for any and all escalation scenarios. And we are now deeply engaged in
that planning. And we are consulting with allies and partners as well
about all of the potential scenarios that might unfold in the days
ahead.

Let me repeat what we’ve now said many times and what the President said
just a short while ago so that everyone, including enemies who are
thinking of exploiting the current situation, hear it loud and clear:
The United States has always and will always have Israel’s back.

And to those families undergoing the unfathomable pain of having loved
ones missing, our hearts go out to you. We cannot imagine the anguish
you must be feeling right now.

We know that U.S. citizens are among the missing. And we know that U.S.
citizens, as the President just said, are among the hostages.

We are working with the Israeli government and with our regional
partners on every aspect of the hostage crisis, including sharing
intelligence and deploying experts from across the U.S. government to
advise the Israeli government and coordinate with them on hostage
recovery efforts.

As the President just said, there is no higher priority than the safety
and wellbeing of American citizens being held hostage overseas.

Over the coming days, we will continue to stand strongly with Israel to
ensure that it is able to defend itself. And my team and I are working
with our colleagues across the U.S. government every hour to keep the
President updated on the latest developments, to take his direction and
put it into action, and we’ll continue following his direction to
provide Israel and the people of Israel all the support required at this
time of need.

And with that, I’d be happy to take your questions.

Yeah.

Q Jake —

Q Jake, thank you —

Q Jake — oh, sorry. MJ, go.

MR. SULLIVAN: We’ll do you first, and then Steve.

Q Thank you, Jake.

Q Yeah, go ahead.

Q On the American hostages, can you, first of all, tell us how many are
we talking about — several or a dozen hostages? And do you know anything
about their condition at all?

MR. SULLIVAN: We do not know about their condition, and we cannot
confirm the precise number of American citizens. We believe that there
are 20 or more Americans who at this point are missing. But I want to
underscore and stress that does not mean, necessarily, that there are 20
or more American hostages, just that is the number who are currently
unaccounted for.

We will work hour by hour both to determine whether we can account for
any of those Americans or to confirm exactly what the number of
Americans are being held hostage. And we will come back to you with that
information as soon as we have it.

As you know, very sadly and tragically, the number of dead has risen
with each passing hour. And that’s true of the total number; it’s also
true of Americans, which has gone up just today from an earlier report
this morning of 12, then 13, now 14.

So, I cannot give you a precise number. I can tell you that number of
unaccounted for at this time. That number could change, too. But I want
to underscore that that is not a statement from me that we have that
many hostages. We do not know the number of hostages we have at this
time.

Q And did the President discuss with the Prime Minister the possibility
of a ground incursion into Gaza and also how that might affect the
American hostages that are in Gaza that are now confirmed?

MR. SULLIVAN: I am not going to get into the operational discussions
that the President and the Prime Minister had. That is important for
them to be able to keep in its discreet channel between them.

What I will tell you is that the President and Prime Minister did
discuss how the United States can deploy expertise to help work on the
hostage recovery efforts. That is what the United States is in the
process of doing right now.

Steve.

Q Under what circumstances would you put American forces on the ground
to help out?

MR. SULLIVAN: At this point, that is not something that is under
planning. What we are focused on when we talk about sending experts, it
is people who can work on intelligence, who can work on overall
planning, who can work on coordination with the Israeli government.

We are not currently sending forces to Israel. And I’ll leave it at that
for now.

Yeah.

Q Has the President spoken to any of the families of the 14 American
citizens who were killed?

MR. SULLIVAN: He has not yet spoken with the families, but the State
Department has been in contact with those families. And the President
has been making this his highest priority as he receives briefings each
day about what we are doing to try to determine both what’s happening
with the missing and also to ensure that we can secure the bodies of —
of those who have perished and — and ensure that they get returned to
their loved ones.

Q Are you also reaching out to those whose loved ones may be unaccounted
for? One family member of a missing American said that there’s been no
formal attempt by the U.S. government to update the families of the
missing.

MR. SULLIVAN: We have, in fact, updated the families of the
unaccounted-for Americans that we know of. If there are Americans, for
some reason, who have not yet been reached out to, that would be
remedied immediately because Secretary Blinken, President Biden,
everybody in the U.S. government is making this the highest priority.

So, we are in very regular contact with every family who has someone
either missing or unaccounted for. And anyone who’s not currently on
that list, for whatever reason, we will take care of that. That is going
to be our highest priority.

Yeah.

Q Thanks, Jake. Two quick questions, one for clarity. The Iron Dome
replenishment — has that already arrived or is it on its way?

MR. SULLIVAN: Some of the interceptors have come out of stocks that the
U.S. had in country, so that — those have gone over to the Israelis in
short order. And then we will be flowing in additional Iron Dome
interceptors so that they have the capabilities they need to sustain
their Iron Dome defense systems.

We’re also looking at other ways that we can help augment their air
defense capabilities as well as we look ahead not just to what’s
happening now but to potential contingencies that could unfold.

Q And then, secondly, what can you say about Iran’s role in the Hamas
attack? Is that one of the actors you’re worried about widening the war?

MR. SULLIVAN: Look, we have said since the beginning that Iran is
complicit in this attack in a broad sense because they have provided the
lion’s share of the funding for the military wing of Hamas, they have
provided training, they have provided capabilities, they have provided
support, and they have had engagement and contact with Hamas over years
and years. And all of that has played a role in contributing to what we
have seen.

Now, as to the question of whether Iran knew about this attack in
advance or helped plan or direct this attack, we do not — as of the
moment I’m standing here at the podium — have confirmation of that.

We are talking to our Israeli counterparts on a daily basis about this
question. We’re looking back through our intelligence holdings to see if
we have any further information on that. We’re looking to acquire
further intelligence. And if there’s an update to that, I’ll share it
with you.

But as I stand here today, while Iran plays this broad role — sustained,
deep, and dark role — in providing all of this support and capabilities
to Hamas, in terms of this particular gruesome attack on October 7th, we
don’t currently have that information. We will continue to look for it.
And if we find it, we will share that with you.

Yeah.

Q Thank you, Jake. Looking back at the last few days, how did Israel
miss this attack coming?

MR. SULLIVAN: That’s a question for you to ask the Israeli government.
Obviously, the Israeli government has placed a high premium on its
intelligence capacity as it relates to Hamas, as it relates to the West
Bank, as it relates to Hezbollah. And why it is that they did not have
warning from this is not a question that I can answer from this podium.

Q What about U.S. intelligence? Was there anything in what crosses your
desk that would suggest that this was coming?

MR. SULLIVAN: We did not see anything that suggested an attack of this
type was going to unfold any more than the Israelis did.

Q And in your meeting with — in the Situation Room today — we saw an
image earlier. At some point, undoubtedly, in last few days, the
President has seen the images of the dead Israelis. What has been his
reaction when shown those images?

MR. SULLIVAN: I mean, you’ve seen him now twice. You’ve heard his voice.
And this has been a deeply emotional time for all of us, as I’m sure it
is for many people in this room who know people or know people who know
people who were killed or who are missing.

And all of us have developed close relationships with our Israeli
counterparts. President Biden has a decades-long relationship with Prime
Minister Netanyahu. And he can hear the pain in Prime Minister
Netanyahu’s voice when he talks to him. I hear the pain of my
counterparts when I talk to them.

So, this is not just about policy or strategy. This is personal for us.
And it’s personal for the American people with their bonds with the
Israeli people.

And so, President Biden has seen and felt the deep emotional resonance
of this. But he has also held the conviction that his job as president
is to make sure that he has the clarity of mind and purpose to take the
actions necessary so that we are standing with Israel in its hour of
need, so that we are working to deter a widening of this conflict, and
so we are getting Israel the tools that it requires to defend itself.

Yeah.

Q Thank you, Jake. You just laid out all of the ways that Iran is
complicit in this and facilitated it over years of support for Hamas. Is
that reason enough to freeze — refreeze the $6 billion that the U.S.
helped unlock for them to get in exchange for the prisoners?

MR. SULLIVAN: We have not yet s- — had a dollar of that $6 billion
spent. And I will leave it at that.

Q But will you refreeze it based on this activity that — you’ve just
laid out all of the ways that they are complicit in this? You — the
administration said that if we see them going in the wrong direction,
that we would stop that down.

I understand the position that you guys have that not a dollar of this
has been spent. But will you prevent it from getting into their hands to
allow them to, you know, do — do what they do that you just laid out?

MR. SULLIVAN: Let me just reiterate what I said, because it’s
unequivocal: Not a dollar of that money has been spent. And I will leave
it at that.

Q Is it being considered?

MR. SULLIVAN: (Calling on another reporter.) Yes.

Q Jake, if I can ask you, will the U.S. support Israel’s military
attacks in Gaza for as long as it takes, until the hostages are freed,
or until Hamas is destroyed? I guess, in simple terms: How much
retaliation in Gaza is the U.S. willing to accept?

MR. SULLIVAN: I don’t think of this in terms of retaliation. This is
about providing support to Israel as it seeks to defend its territory
and deal with an ongoing, imminent threat from Hamas terrorists — who,
as I said before, are acting a heck of a lot like ISIS terrorists in
their barbarity and cruelty. That requires going after Hamas terrorist
targets in Gaza because, even as we speak is — even as I stand here,
there could be rockets flying out of Gaza.

Going after those sites — that’s not retaliation. That’s your — Israel
stepping up to defend itself and ensure the safety and security of the
Israeli people.

And we’re going to support them for as long as they need to ensure that
Israel is safe and secure. And I can’t put a timetable on that.

Q So, to be clear: Is the goal the destruction of Hamas, the guarantee
that Hamas cannot launch attacks from there, the confirmation that all
Americans and Israelis have been secured safely from there? What is —
where do you draw the line? Is there a red line of where do you draw
that line of what you need to accomplish, what —

MR. SULLIVAN: I’m not —

Q — they may accomplish —

MR. SULLIVAN: I’m not standing up here to draw red lines. What I’m
standing up here to say is that in its hour of need, as Israel embarks
on an operation to try to protect its country, protect the Jewish state
of Israel, and to go after the threats that it faces — and also working
closely with them hand in hand to try to secure the release and recovery
of American and other hostages, we will do all of that.

And I’m not here to — to draw red lines or issue warnings or give
lectures to anybody. I’m here to say that the President has given us
direction to take a series of actions. We are undertaking those actions.
And we will continue to do so in the weeks ahead.

Q Last one very quickly —

MR. SULLIVAN: Yeah.

Q — that we heard from the families of Americans who are unaccounted for
right now. They spoke publicly in Israel today. You said the President
hasn’t spoken to them directly. What is the President’s message to those
families right now who said it is the responsibility of the president of
the United States to make sure their loved ones come home safely?

MR. SULLIVAN: The President said in his remarks today that as president
of the United States, he has no higher priority than the safety and
wellbeing of Americans held hostage overseas. And he has proven in
country after country his willingness to go further than any other
president has gone before to se- — secure the release and bring those
people home. He is going to try to do that in this case as well.

But that is a high priority for him. And that is the message that — that
he is sending, along with a deep sense of understanding of the grief and
hurt and pain and anguish they’re feeling right now as they wait to hear
news of their loved ones.

Yeah.

Q Jake, the President, in his remarks today, referred to seeking for
assistance for “partners,” plural. Does that suggest that you’ve decided
strategically to ask Congress for a package that includes both Ukraine
aid as well as aid for Israel? And, you know, Chairman McCaul suggested
even including border and Taiwan money in that.

I’m just kind of hoping you could give a state of play of how you guys
are thinking about this in your interactions with the Hill.

MR. SULLIVAN: So, I’m not going to get ahead of the President’s request
and — and not going to take the place of the OMB director, who will
present the request that we send up.

But the President was very clear today that we will be making a request
to the Congress, and it will include a request for funding for support
to Israel. And he has also been equally clear that we are going to renew
our request to the Congress for aid to Ukraine.

What exact form that all takes, that will be worked out and presented by
others, not by me. But the notion that we’re going to go up and ask for
Israel aid and ask for Ukraine aid, that’s unequivocal. We are going to
do that.

Q Beyond Iron Dome and ammunition, were there any other requests made by
Prime Minister Netanyahu today that we can expect to be part of that
package?

MR. SULLIVAN: He — as I mentioned in my opening comments, he did make
specific requests with respect to other capabilities. I’m not going to
get into the details of that from this podium. But he and the President
discussed that.

I spoke with Lloyd Austin, who was on his way to the NATO defense
ministerial, about those requests. Secretary Austin is following up on
that.

And as I said in my opening comments, you can expect to see American
planes flying into Israel to deliver military capabilities to support
Israel.

Yeah.

Q Just a follow-up on Iron Dome. How effective has it been in deterring
the attacks? And I know you mentioned this a bit in terms of the
interceptors. But has Israel asked for interceptors on an ongoing basis
in — in light of the situation?

MR. SULLIVAN: I — you ask how effective it has been in deterring — I
can’t say that it has deterred, obviously, because a huge number of
rockets have fired. But it has been effective, as it typically is, in
taking a lot of those rockets out of the sky and saving countless lives
by doing this.

Now, of course, some rockets have gotten through, to — to tragic cost.
And that has been the pattern we have seen in previous conflicts as
well.

Now, Israel will have an ongoing need for interceptors, because an air
defense system is only as good as your ability to continue to put
interceptors in that can take out the rockets that are coming to kill
civilians and rain down terror on cities.

And we are committed to making sure that we are working with Israel to
produce and supply the requisite number of Iron Dome interceptors so
that they can keep those systems going on an indefinite basis going
forward, because we cannot say how long this will be going on.

Yeah.

Q Thank you. Jake, while you support an Israel military and rightly
denounced this horrific and heinous act against Israeli civilians, how
can you make sure that Israel goes after Hamas and its infrastructure in
Gaza, not 2 million Palestinians who are trapped with no water, with no
electricity, with no medical supplies? The U.N. schools are overflowing
now. They are — the number of beds is reaching 850 so far, including six
member of one family of the former ambassador to Washington.

How can you make sure that this is not revenge but actually going after
Hamas, who committed this horrible crime?

Q Well, as the President said today, the difference between countries
like the United States and Israel is that we do not deliberately target
civilians. We are strongest when we are committed to the rule of law.
And we work to make sure that all military operations are conducted
consistent with the rule of law and the law of war. That is something
that President Biden and Prime Minister Netanyahu have discussed, not
just in this context but in previous contexts as well. That is something
the United States has always stood for and always will continue to stand
for.

Yeah.

Q Can you make sure — sorry. Can you confirm that the Egyptian
intelligence had passed information to the Israelis that the attack is
imminent or some attack is going to happen?

MR. SULLIVAN: I cannot confirm that.

Yeah.

Q Prime Minister Netanyahu tweeted on Saturday telling residents of Gaza
to “leave now because we will operate forcefully everywhere.” Where is
the idea of where people in Gaza will go?

MR. SULLIVAN: This is something also that we have been discussing with
our counterparts in Israel and with our counterparts in Egypt.

And without getting into the specifics of safe passage for civilians and
so forth, I will say it’s something that the U.S. government is seized
with in supporting how we do that operationally.

But the details of that are something that are being discussed among the
— the operational agencies, and I don’t want to share too much of that
publicly at this time.

Q Would that happen imminently or what — what is the timing (inaudible)?

MR. SULLIVAN: I’ll leave it at the fact that we are focused on this
question, there are consultations ongoing, and I’ll share more when I
have an update for you.

Yeah.

Q Following up on that question about what the President said about
talking with the Israeli Prime Minister about democracies and the laws
of war, was that a warning to the Prime Minister? And why did the
President feel that was necessary to bring it up in the call today?

MR. SULLIVAN: It was not a warning. The call today was not President
Biden warning Prime Minister Netanyahu about anything. It was two
leaders talking to one another: one who is leading a nation that has
suffered an unfathomable attack, and another nation who is standing
behind them four-square in the defense of their country.

And the conversation carried on in those terms. And the two leaders
spoke in a collaborative fashion, as they always do.

So, no, I cannot accept the characterization of your question.

Yeah.

Q Thanks, Jake. I have two questions. First, some reports are saying
that IRGC commander was in Lebanon — Esmail Qaani was in Lebanon few
days ago, and he left to Syria. Also, you are saying that Iran is
complicit in this attack. Are you trying to downplay the Iranian role
here? What are you waiting for to take an action?

And my second question: What assessment do you have on where other
militias, other Iranian militias stand now, whether in Iraq. We also
heard the Houthis threat now. Can you give us an update?

And is there a risk on the U.S. troops in the region?

Thank you.

MR. SULLIVAN: So, I — on your first question, I laid out our view, which
is the broad complicity based on the longstanding support that Hamas is
giving to Iran. We don’t have specific information that ties Iran to
this attack. At this time, we don’t have that information. We may gain
that information in the hours and days ahead, but we don’t presently
have it. So, that’s in answer to your first question with respect to the
intelligence.

With respect to the question of the various militia groups across the
region, we do believe that they pose an urgent threat and that it is
certainly distinctly possible that they choose to try to exploit or take
advantage of this situation. And we have been sending clear warnings
that doing so will resort — will result in — in a firm response and
consequences from the United States.

And that goes across the board. And we have been clear also in sending a
message of deterrence through the movement of the carrier strike group
into the Eastern Mediterranean, as well as through the assurance that we
will sustain F-16s, F-35s, A-10s in theater to be able to deal with any
contingency that the United States might have to deal with in the days
ahead.

Yeah.

Q Thanks, Jake. The — the European Union says it opposes a total siege
of Gaza. I mean, what’s the U.S. position on that?

MR. SULLIVAN: I have seen those reports. But my understanding is that is
not the — the concept of siege is not something that in fact is going to
be pursued by the Israeli government.

But we are consulting with the Israeli government about their actions in
this regard.

And like I said before to a previous question, President Biden and Prime
Minister Netanyahu had the opportunity to talk through the difference
between going full-bore against Hamas terrorists and how we distinguish
between terrorists and innocent civilians.

Yeah.

Q Thank you so much, Jake. Just zooming out to China. Is the U.S.
worried that this attention now to Israel is going to detract resources
from the Indo-Pacific? Have you communicated with Beijing about this
attack in Israel? And just going to Senator Schumer’s comments, he said
he was “disappointed” by President Xi’s soft response. Has that been
part of the discussions here?

MR. SULLIVAN: We were not entirely surprised by the PRC’s response based
on their history of commentary on these kinds of issues.

We believe that the United States is capable of supporting Ukraine in
Europe, of supporting our allies in the Indo-Pacific, and of supporting
our close ally, Israel, in its hour of need. And we believe we have the
resources, tools, and capacities to be able to effectively do that.

And part of our job is to ensure that we are working across all of these
theaters at once. And that’s precisely what we’re doing each day.

Yeah.

Q There have been some Republican lawmakers who have argued the U.S.
can’t support two wars. Could you address some of that and — and talk a
little bit about how you’ll make these requests to Congress and make the
case that the U.S. needs to invest — maybe not with troops on the ground
— but with — with military and economic aid in both Israel and Ukraine?

MR. SULLIVAN: Standing for Ukraine so that Russian aggression does not
prevail in Europe — the amount of resources that we need to put into
that compared to the amount of resources we would have to put in if
Russia were, in fact, to conquer Ukraine and then potentially have its
aggression continue across Europe, it is so much more cost-effective to
take the action now, as opposed to pay the huge price later — a price
that might ultimately, as it has in the past, require the actual
deployment of American troops to combat.

So, better to support the Ukrainians as they stand firm against Russian
aggression and do so on a sustained basis. And we have the budget
wherewithal to be able to do that. We also have the budget wherewithal
to be able to provide Israel what it needs.

And we firmly reject the notion that the United States of America cannot
at once support the freeding — freedom-loving people of Ukraine and
support the State of Israel.

Yeah.

Q Great. Thanks, Jake. Is the administration working with Israel and
Egypt to open the Rafah crossing to try to ensure evacuations are
possible?

And then also, I know that you said that in conversations with Israeli
leaders, you don’t think that a complete siege is something that they
may be attempting to do in Gaza. But is there any counsel of restraint
from the administration to Israel?

MR. SULLIVAN: So, on the first question, I — in reference to a previous
question, I spoke about our consultations with the Israelis and the
Egyptians about how to deal with the challenge of civilians who — who
want to leave Gaza. I’m not going to get into the details of that about
a specific crossing or so forth, only to say that that is something we
are focused on and we are working on. And I want to leave those
conversations in diplomatic channels, at least for the moment. When we
have more to offer on that, I’ll be sure that we do so.

And then we are having conversations with the Israelis, as I have
described. And again, at this podium, I’m not going to go into details
on them in terms of what precise messages we’re passing. It’s important
that we be able to talk to the Israelis in the way that we always do —
as good friends, as honest friends — and we will continue to do that.

Yeah.

Q Thanks, Jake. So, on the home front, over 150 people who are on a
terrorist watchlist have been seized along the southern border this
fiscal year. And we’ve reported that there’s been a hundred — over 1.5
million known got-aways since the Biden administration took office. Is
this something the American people should be worried about right now?

MR. SULLIVAN: We continue to remain vigilant about terrorist threats to
the homeland from anywhere. It is something that we are very much
working on, that we are consulting with the Congress on, that we are
seeking to secure the necessary resources to continue to work through.

And anytime we see any threat stream involving a terrorist threat to the
homeland, we mobilize every asset and resource of the U.S. government to
go after that. And that includes information and analysis that we have
shared with the Congress about plots emanating from the Middle East,
plots emanating from other places. We’ll continue to do that.

We also will continue to take steps to pursue a humane, orderly border
policy. And we will work with the Congress in the weeks ahead to
continue to get the resource that we — resources we need to be able to
do that.

I would point out that in the last supplemental, we actually sought
additional funding for the border, which was not forthcoming in the
ultimate package that went through. So, the Biden administration has
said to Congress already, “We’re looking for more resources to be able
to deal with the — the continuing challenges that we have at the
border.”

Yeah.

Q Jake, the President doesn’t have a confirmed ambassador to Israel at
this point. What are you doing to get Jack Lew confirmed, given he was
nominated about a month ago, the nomination was sent to the Senate back
in late September. What’s the plan to get him on the ground?

MR. SULLIVAN: Well, first, the Senate is coming back into session next
week. Second, when they do, we are going to work with both Democrats and
Republicans — and particularly the leaders on both sides and the chair
and ranking in the Senate Foreign Relations Committee — to make that
happen as soon as humanly possible and then get him out to the region
immediately thereafter.

Q Is that your top priority when Congress returns, apart from the aid
request that you’re talking about?

MR. SULLIVAN: Well, it’s hard to answer top priority in the sense that
our top priority when Congress comes back is going to be the full
spectrum of needs that Israel has. Some of that is related to the
support that we’re seeking from Congress. And then, of course, having
high-level diplomatic re- — representation is going to be critical as
well. So, we will move urgently on that the minute that they come back.

Yeah.

Q Jake, one of the things —

Q Can you just clarify your answer from earlier — I’m sorry. Can you
just clarify your answer —

MR. SULLIVAN: Sorry, it’s the —

Q One — just one — just one question. Can you just give us where things
stand with the normalization deal? Is that on hold now? Is there any
progress? Or do you see any progress for that?

MR. SULLIVAN: So, we are right now focused on dealing with the immediate
challenge that we are confronting and that Israel is confronting. And
so, I’m not going to give a characterization on the state of play on
normalization. It’s not on hold. But, obviously, over the last four
days, all of our attention with respect to our support for Israel has
been focused squarely on this conflict, on this heinous, brutal attack,
and on helping Israel be able to defend itself. We’re going to continue
to try to do that.

Yeah.

Q Jake, can you just clarify your answer — your “yes”?

Q You and — you and the President both compared Hamas to ISIS. What does
that say about the U.S. approach to Hamas going forward?

MR. SULLIVAN: Well, we have labeled Hamas a terrorist group for years,
if not decades. And we have consistently supported Israel in its efforts
to fight back against and undermine Hamas, and we will continue to do
so.

In the immediate term, what it means is working with Israel to ensure
that they are able to go after that Hamas threat in Gaza effectively,
relentlessly, and to the point where they feel that their security and
their deterrence has been fully restored.

Yeah.

Q Does — does the —

Q Mr. Sullivan, can you — can you — can I just ask you real quick — I’m
sorry — Mr. Sullivan, are you concerned at all that those who are here
in the U.S. — terrorists who are here in the U.S. may be emboldened by
what’s happening now?

And just to piggyback on what was asked earlier, because we do know that
there are people sort of lurking here: Is there a concern that there may
be a flare-up?

MR. SULLIVAN: The President put out a written statement yesterday with
multiple elements to it. One of those elements was about the focus that
we have right now on protecting Americans here at home against anyone
who would seek to exploit or piggyback on what has unfolded — these
gruesome events that have unfolded in Israel.

Part of that is about protecting places of worship, synagogues, and
ensuring that we don’t see a kind of virulent form of antisemitism
sparked by what has just happened.

And then part of that is about ensuring that any terrorist threat here
in the United States or to the United States or to Americans anywhere in
the world, that we are at a heightened state of vigilance to deal with
that.

That’s something the President directed his team. It’s something he
spoke to yesterday in that statement. And it’s something that he will be
convening his national security team on this week, because it remains a
very high priority.

And I’ll take the last question.

Q Does the administration regret making the prisoner swap with Iran in
light of these attacks?

MR. SULLIVAN: The United States does not regret bringing home American
citizens who had been unjustly detained abroad. As I said before, the
President has no higher priority than to get Americans home.

Right now, we have Americans who are being held hostage by Hamas in
Gaza. That is a high priority. Bringing those Americans home from Iran
was a high priority — from Afghanistan, from Venezuela, from other
places as well.

And we stand by bringing those people home because that is the duty of
the Commander-in-Chief, is to get innocent Americans out of captivity in
places that they are being unjustly detained.

Thanks, you guys.

(Cross-talk.)

Q Jake, if Israel strikes Iran, what level of support can they count on
from the U.S.?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Thanks, Jake. Okay. I know the President is going to
have an event shortly, and the pool is going to have to gather. So,
we’ll take a few questions.

Go ahead, my friend. Go ahead.

Q Hi, Karine.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Hello.

Q On the special counsel interviews, did the President answer all the
questions that were asked during the interviews, and was the executive
privilege invoked at any time? I know there’s limits on what you can
say, but any transparency will be helpful on this.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, my colleagues at the White House — my
colleague at the White House Counsel put out a statement yesterday, so —
providing an update of — of where we are with this particular — with
this particular in- — interview in the special counsel, obviously. I’m
just not going to go beyond what my colleague has shared.

If you have any further questions, certainly I would refer you to
Department of Justice or the White House Counsel to ask any detailed
information.

Go ahead.

All right. Go ahead.

Q For the record, though, we understand the President’s interview with
Special Counsel Robert Hur was scheduled long before the conflict began,
at least that’s what we’re being told by people here at the White House
and elsewhere. Did the President and his legal team ever ask for the
interview to be rescheduled, given what transpired in Israel over the
weekend?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, again, Ed, I’m not going to go beyond the statement
from the White House Counsel. And you all know and have seen for
yourself, the President spoke the second — this is the second time he’s
spoken about Israel in the last couple of days.

And, you kn- — so, we know how focused he’s been on — on what has
happened. He’s shown his leadership over the h- — the horrific events
over the weekend in Israel.

And look, we disclosed — we disclosed the interview. We put that out in
a statement from the White House Counsel — from my colleague at the
White House Counsel.

And the President is — obviously was intensely engaged. He spoke to many
of our allies, whether the King of Jordan, the leaders of Italy, France,
Germany, and the UK. And he met — and as I said at the top, he met with
our national security team over a dozen times. And he spoke with Bibi —
Prime Minister Netanyahu, to be more precise — the third time today. So,
twice over the weekend.

So, he’s been very much focused on the issues of the, you know, horrific
events that we have seen in Israel.

And, you know, the President is able to do multiple things at once,
right? As president, he has to do multiple things at once. And that’s
what you saw him do this weekend.

Q And did the President’s need to be interviewed by the Special Counsel
yesterday impede or keep him from giving the remarks he gave today
yesterday? Because you know — the press office certainly knows there was
a lot of inquiry and concern and criticism that perhaps he was not as
publicly engaged yesterday as he possibly could have been.

It was a federal holiday. There was some respect or decision made to not
hold public events on the federal holiday. But, clearly, he was doing a
big thing by meeting with the Special Counsel. So, was there any reason
to believe that that impeded his ability to respond publicly to what was
going on in the Middle East?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Well, as I just said, Ed, presidents have to do
multiple things at once. He spoke on Saturday — right? — when we learned
— when all of you were reporting and it was incoming of what was
happening in Israel. He spoke today, obviously. There were multiple
statements from this President.

I just mentioned, he menti- — he met with his national security team
dozens of time. He did multiple calls with heads of states, trying to
make sure that we got the support, continued that support, organized
support of — of other allies and partners across — across the world. And
we put out a statement as well — a joint statement from those — from
those allies and partners.

Look, the President was — was very much engaged in showing his — his
leadership and also how we’re continue — we’re going to continue to
support Israel. And that’s going to certainly — we’re going to — that’s
how we’re going to move forward.

And again, the President has to handle many things at once, and we saw
him do that over the past couple of days, since — certainly, since
Saturday.

Go ahead.

Q The President said that he will urge Congress to act quickly on Israel
aid. Obviously, Ukraine aid is also still outstanding. Is there a
preferred pathway forward from this White House on how both of those
things can happen, given the situation on Capitol Hill right now?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Look, Jake Sullivan spoke to this a little bit about —
when he was asked about the aid. Look — and he said this — he said it
much better than I’m about to say it, which is how important it is to
continue to support Ukraine in their time of — of — as they are fighting
for freedom, as they’re fighting the aggression from Russia.

It is important that we continue to do that. Because — look, doing that
now — the cost/benefit of it now is so important to do it now than to
allow Putin — a dictator like Putin to continue beyond Ukraine, right?
It is important that we continue to focus on making sure that Ukraine
has everything that they need as they \[are\] bravely fighting for their
freedom and for their democracy.

And we’re going to continue to, certainly, move forward, as you heard
with the President, to ask Congress when they get back for additional —
for additional assistance.

Tho- — both of those things are incredibly important. Those — both of
those things need to move forward. Both of the things, as — as Jake
said, we are able and can do as the United States.

I’m not going to talk about our strategy. We’re going to — certainly, as
Jake said, the OMB director is going to lay that out. We’re going to
figure out the best path forward. I’m just not going to get into details
on how that’s going to look from now.

Q Have White House officials had any conversations with lawmakers about
potentially speeding up the House speakership race?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Not going to get involved in the House speakership
race. That is something — again, as I’ve said many  
times, as we have said many times, the House, as you know, is the — the
majority goes to the Republicans. It is their — it is their path, it is
their process to figure out who is going to be the Speaker.

Certainly, we want — certainly, we’re — we’re — we want that to get done
so that we can move forward with the business of the American people.
But I’m not going to get into congressional process from here.

Trying to see who has not — go ahead, Gerren. I know you haven’t gotten
called on.

Q Thanks, Karine. There have been some clashes across the country in
demonstrations amongst protesters in the aftermath of what’s — or amid
what’s happening in Israel. How concerned is the administration that
these clashes can turn violent? And do you have a message for
demonstrators more broadly?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, I mean, Jake also spoke to our focus and our
— the importance of making sure that the Jewish community here is
protected, making sure that there aren’t — there aren’t acts of
violence. We’re always going to denounce any act of violence against any
community, and, certainly, going to continue to show our support and
going to be vigilant on that.

Don’t have anything else to go beyond that. But we are certainly
monitoring, keeping an eye on all of this. And we’re going to continue
to support the community here.

Yeah.

Q One other question on —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: We have to start — we have to —

Go ahead, Phil.

Q What is the President’s message to —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Okay. The pool should — should start leaving, and then
we’re going to take this last question.

Go ahead, Phil.

Q Thank you, Karine. What is the President’s message to members of
Congress who seem to be equating the Hamas terror attack with actions
that were previously taken by Israel?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Say that one more time. Everybody is moving around. I
apologize.

Q What is the President’s message to members of Congress who seem to be
equating the Hamas terror attack with actions that were previously taken
by Israel?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Look, here’s the thing — and which — which — which
congressional members?

Q Well, there have been some members of Congress who have called for a
ceasefire, and they have not gone as far as backing the administration’s
call for support for Israel.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, I’ve seen some of those statements this
weekend. And we’re going to continue to be very clear: We believe they
are wrong, we believe they’re repugnant, and we believe they’re
disgraceful.

Our — our condemnation belongs squarely with terrorists who have
brutally murdered, raped, kidnapped hundreds — hundreds of Israelis.
There can be no equivocation about that. There are not two sides here.
There are not two sides.

President Biden has been clear on where he has stood. You heard him —
you heard from him directly today. You heard from him also on Saturday
on this. There’s been multiple statements from this President. And he’s
taking action to provide additional support to ensure that Israel has
the — has what they need to defend themselves.

Q Thank you, Karine.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: All right.

Q A follow-up on this question, please?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Okay, go ahead. And then — last question. And then
we’ll be back tomorrow.

Q Yesterday, the President said he was putting police departments on —
on high alert. Can you guarantee that members of the Muslim diaspora or
immigrant communities can still feel safe, can still exercise their
civil liberties and exercise their criticism of — of Israel’s behavior?
Was that part of the conversations? And can you assure those communities
that they still have (inaudible)?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I — I don’t have any details of the conversation, but,
obviously, the President is — is going to be — we’re always going to
deno- — denounce any form — any type of violence and — certainly, to
keep communities safe. That is something we’ll be vigilant about. I
don’t have anything else to add.

Thank you so much. We’ll see you guys tomorrow.

3:32 P.M. EDT
