---
date: '2023-10-17'
modified_time: 2023-10-17 23:05:18-04:00
published_time: 2023-10-17 23:05:16-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2023/10/17/press-gaggle-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-nsc-coordinator-for-strategic-communications-john-kirby-en-route-tel-aviv-israel/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Gaggle by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and NSC Coordinator for\
  \ Strategic Communications John Kirby En Route Tel Aviv,\_Israel"
---
 
Aboard Air Force One  
En Route Tel Aviv, Israel

8:06 P.M. EDT

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Hi, everyone.  
  
As you know, we’re on our way to Tel Aviv.  I just have a couple things
at the top before I turn it over to my colleague.  
  
So, the President felt strongly it was important to continue to stand in
solidarity with Israel and the Israeli people in their hour of
need following the appalling terror- –terrorist attacks last week that
killed more than 1,300 people and at least 31 Americans.  
  
The President also believes it’s an important moment to travel to the
region to discuss humanitarian needs in Gaza and other crucial issues at
hand.  
  
We’re traveling to a region in which there is active conflict, as you
all know, and very real security concerns, so we may not be able to read
out every expected piece of our trip to the region, but we’ll do our
best to answer all of your questions.  
  
And one more thing I wanted to touch on is hate crimes.  
  
President Biden ran for office to restore the soul of the nation — of
our nation.  
  
He has been unequivocal: There is no place for hate in America — not
against Jews, not against Muslims, not against Arab Americans, not
against anyone.  
  
Yet, the latest FBI hate crime numbers released yesterday demonstrate
the count- — the continuing scourge of hate-fueled crimes in our
country.  They also demonstrate what this President has continually
said: Antisemitism, Islamophobia, and other forms of hate are all
connected, and we cannot be silent in the face of hate.  
  
And, of course, this report comes at a challenging time for some of the
communities most impacted by violence — hate violence, more specific.  
  
After the terrorist attacks in Israel, the President directed his
Homeland Security team to prioritize the prevention and disruption of
any emerging threats that could harm Jewish, Muslim, Arab American, or
any other communities during this time.  
  
Last week, the President joined a White House meeting with Jewish
community leaders to discuss the fight against antisemitism.  He also
spoke publicly about the United States’ efforts to surge support in
response to the devastating humanitarian crisis in Gaza impacting
innocent Palestinians and Palestinian Americans.   
  
And on Sunday, the President issued a statement about the unspec- —
unspeakably hor- — horror, murder — horrific murder of a six-year-old
Palestinian American child and the attempted murder of the child’s
mother in their home in Illinois.  
  
The President and his Homeland Security team will continue to engage
with Jewish, Muslim, and Arab American organizations, with law
enforcement, and with other community organizations to combat
hate-fueled violence.    
  
The President has and will continue to do everything in his power to
fight antisemitism and Islamophobia in our nation.  And th- — and that
work will not end until every American has the freedom to live their
lives in safety and without fear.    
  
With that, as you can see, I’m joined by Admiral Kirby from NSC, and
he’s going to have a few words to say at the top and
take your questions.  
  
Go ahead.   
  
MR. KIRBY:  Thanks, Karine.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Admiral.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I think you probably all saw the President’s statement about
the hospital explosion.  As you saw, he’s — he’s outraged; he’s
saddened.  We’re all shocked by the horrific loss of life.  The numbers
are staggering for a single event.  
  
He has directed the national security team to — to gather as much
information and context as possible so that we can learn more about how
this happened.   
  
And as he said in his statement and as we’ve been saying now for now on
a week, the — we are unequivocal in our firm belief that innocent
civilian lives should not be suffered, should not be lost, should not be
injured by — by the fighting between Israel and Hamas.  
  
The proper number of civilian casualties in a conflict like this is
zero, and we stand by that.   
  
And we also mourn and grieve and express our deepest condolences to all
those family members and loved ones and friends of those who were
tragically killed in — in today’s explosion.  
  
Now, tomorrow, obviously, we will — the trip will be confined to Tel
Aviv.  So, let me just give you just a quick rundown of what he’ll be
doing tomorrow.  
  
He will — first thing he’ll do is meet with Prime Minister Netanyahu in
a very small restricted bilateral meeting.  Then he’ll have a chance to
broaden that out, and his team will be able to meet with the Israeli war
cabinet.  
  
After that, he will have a chance to meet with some of the Israeli first
responders, all those who are bravely putting themselves in harm’s way
in response to these — the Hamas attacks and thank them for all their
bravery and — and the work that they’re doing.  
  
He will also have a chance after that to meet with some of the
families.  It’ll be some of the families of those who have lost loved
ones in Israel and some of the families who have — who still don’t know
the fate of their loved ones.  And, in fact, some of the family members
we expect will also be family members of hostages that we know Hamas has
taken.  
  
Q    American families, or —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  It’s unclear right now.  
  
Q    Okay.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  But family members of those that — that were taken hostage. 
I don’t have the list of names right now.  
  
After that, he’ll have a chance to make remarks — public remarks.  So,
all — you’ll — you’ll see that for yourself.  
  
And then he also will have a chance to — to have a — a chance to — to
speak directly with President Herzog, too.  There’ll be a short
conversation that he’ll get — he’ll get with President Herzog.  
  
When he talks to Prime Minister Netanyahu and to the war cabinet, he’s
going to be doing a few things.  One, he’s going to get a sense from the
Israelis about the situation on the ground and, more critically, their
objectives, their plans, their intentions in the days and weeks ahead. 
And he’ll be asking some tough questions.  He’ll be asking them as a
friend — as a true friend of Israel.  But he will be asking some
questions of them.

He’s also going to make it clear that we continue to want to see this
conflict not widen, not expand, not deepen.  And he’ll make that point
very clearly.  We do — we want to deter any actor, be it a state or a
terrorist group, from widening and escalating.  And, as you well know,
he’s added additional military capability into the Eastern Medi- —
Mediterranean, specifically, both naval and air forces, to make that —
to send that strong signal. 

He’ll also, of course, ask the Prime Minister and the war cabinet what
they believe their need are from a security assistance perspective and
make it clear that we will do everything we can to meet those needs. 

Now, I don’t know what those needs are going to be.  We’ll see what they
have to say tomorrow.  But, as you know, we’ve already delivered one
package of security assistance; more will be on the way.

He will — he will address the humanitarian as- — humanitarian situation
in Gaza, making it clear, as he has before, that we want to see
humanitarian assistance flow in, and it’s not just a one-and-done.  We
want to see it be able to be sustained — food, water, obviously,
electrical power, medicine — all the things that the — the people of
Gaza are going to continue to need as this conflict continues to go on. 
So, he’ll make that case very, very clearly. 

And then, obviously, he’ll — he’ll want to address the issue of the
hostages with — with Israe- — Israeli counterparts, find out what they
know, if we have any more dexterity in terms of any more knowledge about
where they are, what condition they are, if they’re being moved, all
that kind of thing.  We want to get more information as we continue to
try to work options to get those hostages out. 

I will add that — and I meant to say this when I was back on
humanitarian assistance — you probably know this, but Special Envoy
Satterfield is now on the ground and working this problem very, very
directly with both Israeli and Egyptian counterparts. 

So, as I said, I think, earlier today in some of my media appearances,
we’re optimistic that something will — that we’ll be able to get some
humanitarian assistance in.  A lot of work has been done.  Secretary
Blinken really pulled a lot of weight here in shuttle diplomacy over the
last few days to try to get humanitarian assistance in.  
And then, just lastly, on a schedule — another schedule note, I know
we’re all — you’re all tracking that we’re not going to Amman, Jordan. 
We noted that President Mahmoud Abbas put out a very positive statement
urging calm in the wake of the explosion at the hospital. 

The President intends to speak with both — both President Mahmoud Abbas
and President Sisi on the flight home.  So, this would be, I guess,
tomorrow night.  And, of course, Karine’s team will provide you guys a
readout of all that.  But that — we expect those calls to happen on the
way back. 

Okay. 

Q    Did he talk to — who did you say?  I couldn’t hear you.

MR. KIRBY:  He intends, on the way home, to speak to both President Sisi
and President Mahmoud Abbas.

Q    When you say that — when you say that the President is going to ask
Netanyahu some tough questions, could you give us a sense of what those
are?  And is he going to ask him to delay the offensive at least until
aid can get in there?

MR. KIRBY:  This is not about directing operations for the Israeli
Defense Forces.  And — and by “tough questions,” I don’t mean menacing
or — or in any way adversarial, just hard questions that a good friend
of Israel would ask about, sort of, where they think they’re — where
they think they’re going, what their — what their plans are going
forward and, again, all in the spirit of a — of a true, deep friend of
Israel. 

Q    So, in the statement that the President issued, he asked his
national security team to get to the bottom of what happened with the
Gaza hospital explosion.  One, just what is that investigation?  But,
two, Israelis have said, “We didn’t do this; this was a misdirected
rocket or missile.”  Do you guys not believe the Isra- — Israelis?

MR. KIRBY:  They have categorically denied that they were involved in
that.  So, I’ll let them speak to — to their statement on that. 

I wouldn’t characterize this as an investigation, Aamer.  He has
directed the national security team to gather as much information and
context as possible.  We all want to know how this could have happened.

Q    Are there any initial — are there any initial findings or belief
from the U.S. about who was behind the attack on the —

MR. KIRBY:  Not at this time.

Q    How much of a setback to the goals of the trip is not having that
second stop in Jordan, not having those face-to-face meetings?

MR. KIRBY:  Well, look, the President was looking forward, clearly, to
going to Amman and having a chance to sit down face to face with
President Sisi and President Mahmoud Abbas, two key leaders here in this
conflict between Israel and Hamas.  But he was able to talk to — to them
over the phone.  And, as I said, he’ll have a chance on the way home to
speak to them again.  So, I mean, the — the conversations will continue.

But he also understood — I mean, the main reason that Abbas pulled out
of the meeting in Jordan was because of three days of mourning, which is
of course completely culturally understandable.

I mean, he absolutely had to go home, and we understand that.  And
without him there, certainly that — that made it more difficult to — to
have the kind of discussions that we wanted to have in Amman. 

But again, they’ll speak — they’ll speak again on the way home.

Q    Are there any conversations or thinking about a possible trip
somewhere else or trying to reschedule the Jordan leg?  Or are you — or
is it pretty sure at this point, right after Tel Aviv, he’ll return to
the U.S.?

MR. KIRBY:  No, there’s — there’s no plans to reschedule the Amman
stop.  The Amman stop was — was sort of built in as part of this — of
this short trip to the region. 

But again, he’ll have conversations with them again on the way home. 
And it’s not like these leaders don’t know each other and don’t have the
— the ability and the opportunity to speak whenever the- — whenever
needed.

Q    How did you all learn that King Jor- — King Abdullah was canceling
Amman altogether —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Yeah, there’s — I think —  
  
Q    — on the motorcade on the way out?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Yeah, I think there’s been a little bit of a garble on that,
Peter.  I mean, actually, that decision not to go to Amman was made in a
mutual way when the President spoke to the King earlier this
afternoon.   
  
They both agreed that now was not the time to try to throw this meeting
on, particularly with, you know, President Abbas making it very clear,
understandably so, that he wanted to return home for three days of
mourning.  So, it was a mutual decision.  
  
Q    And he talked — and he talked to both King Abdullah and Prime
Minister Netanyahu from the White House before getting in the motorcade
to leave?   
  
MR. KIRBY:  That’s correct.  
  
Q    How did the conversation with Prime Minister Netanyahu go?  What
was the —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I mean, it was — obviously, it was important for the
President to hear directly from the Prime Minister in the wake of this
explosion and to talk about the — the value — the continued value of
making this trip.  
  
Q    Netanyahu told him he didn’t do it — that the Israelis didn’t do it
on that call?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I won’t go into the specifics of the conversation between
the two gentlemen, but as — as you’ve all seen, the Israelis have
categorically and very stridently denied that they had anything to do
with it.  
  
Q    Did he give them the benefit of the doubt?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I think we — we certainly recognize that they feel very
strongly that — that this was not caused by them.  And as I said, he has
directed the national security team, Jake Sullivan and his team, to try
to gather as much information as possible.  
  
Q    Just given how uncertain and volatile that situation is, was there
any consideration given to canceling the entire trip until more is known
about the hospital explosion?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Well, that’s why — that’s why he got on the phone this
afternoon and talked to all the leaders involved was to — so that — so
that all of them could make a collective decision about the value of
continuing the trip.  
  
Q    Kirby, you said that these leaders know each other and there’s not
a concern about them being able to have — to continue this work by
phone.  But one of the reasons that the President is going to this — to
the region, to Israel, is to be there in person and to get some of this
work done.  Officials in the U.S. government have said it’s really
important for him to show up.  He’s now only showing up for half of —
half of this trip.  Is the President disappointed?  Is the President
concerned?  Is there some regret that this trip is not going on as
planned?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Of course, he would always prefer face-to-face diplomacy. 
That’s — that’s the President’s stock-in-trade.  But he also
understands, in the wake of this explosion at the hospital, that it’s
not — it’s not the appropriate thing to do for — certainly for the
leaders that are there.  And he understands that and he respects — he
respects their concerns.   
  
But — and, again, I don’t want to convey that — you know, that he
considers a phone call just as good.  I mean, the reason he wanted to
come was to sit down face to face with all of them.  But in the — in the
event that that’s not possible now, he is certainly are going to stay
telephonically in touch with them.  
  
Q    Why not just put it off for three days?  
  
Q    By not having the Amman stop, how does that complicate flowing the
humanitarian assistance into Gaza?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Again, I think you’ll hear more from the President on this
tomorrow.  Secretary Blinken has really done a lot of hard work in the
region and — to try to — to get humanitarian assistance flowing in.  I
think you’ll hear more from the President on this, as I said, tomorrow. 
We feel optimistic that — that that kind of assistance will — will start
to flow.  
  
Q    Are you expecting —  
  
Q    Is Egypt — is Egypt going to let the — let the supplies in?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I think I’m just going to leave it at, you know, a lot of
work has been done, and we feel optimistic that we can get there.  It’s
really, really important, Steve, that that assistance gets in as soon as
possible and that it can be sustained.  
  
Q    On U.S. military force, you talked about the strike carrier groups
that have been sent to the Middle East in the deterrence efforts.  How
concerned is the administration that military force could eventually be
needed?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  So, it’s important to remember that the carrier strike group
that’s in the Eastern Med has been extended now.  You saw Secretary
Austin extended it.  We’ve got another one coming from Norfolk.  It’ll
take a little bit of time before she gets there.  And he’s added
aircraft squadrons as well to the mix in the Mediterranean.  
  
They’re all there to send a strong signal of deterrence.  That is the
purpose: to make it clear to any would-be actor, any would-be nation,
state, or terrorist group that wants to — are thinking about widening
conflict that they shouldn’t do that.  
  
There are no plans or intentions to put U.S. boots on the group in
combat in Israel.  But as we’ve also said, we have significant national
security interests in the region.  Those national security interests
have not changed.  As a matter of fact, they are more important perhaps
now than they have been in the recent past.  And those forces will be
there to demonstrate a sincere capability of protecting and defending
those national interests if need be.  
  
Q    It sounds like —  
  
Q    What would trigger the use of military force if you needed to
defend those interests?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Yeah, I think that’s a great hypothetical.  I’m not going to
get into it.  We never talk about future military operations, and I
simply wouldn’t do that.  They are there to send a deterrence signal. 
There is more than enough capability to de- — protect and defend our
national security interests if it comes to that.  
  
Q    Was the decision to go and to make this trip any way a unanimous
one, or was there a debate?  Was there a difference of opinion —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  With whom?  
  
Q    Among the President’s team.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  No, I think everybody agreed that this was the right time to
go, especially coming — I mean, the trip was very much informed by
Secretary Blinken’s and Secretary Austin’s visit, quite frankly — very
much informed by their experience on the ground and conversations that
they had.   
  
And, I mean, the whole team gathered together to discuss the merits of
going, and it was — you know, it was a — again, I won’t speak for
everybody in the room, but — but there was a consensus, clearly, that it
was important for the President to go and now is exactly the right time
to do it.  
  
Q    Was there still a consensus today in rethinking it, or there was —
there was a consensus when the decision was made originally?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  No, after — you know, after the — after the conversations
with the — with the players this afternoon, given the concerns,
obviously, that President Abbas had about the three days of mourning, I
think there was a general feeling after his phone conversations this
afternoon that — that not going to Amman was the right thing to do.  
  
Q    Are you saying —  
  
Q    In regards to security going into it, what — regardless of who did
the hospital — regardless of who was responsible for the hospital,
something really extraordinary just happened, and the President is going
right in there 12 hours later.  Is that a c- — a concern in terms of
security?  Is that to change our thinking about his presence there or
how it’s — how it’s —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  We always take the President’s security very, very
seriously.  And — and there’s a — a highly professional team in the
Secret Service and in the State Department that — that takes a look at
all those parameters.  
  
We wouldn’t be making this trip if we didn’t believe that we could do
this in a safe and efficient manner for the President.  
  
Q    Are you saying that there will be deliverables that maybe have been
secured by the Secretary of State and you —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I’m not going to get ahead of anything.  I’m — what I’m
telling you is that Secretary Blinken did an awful lot of great work
this week seeing if we could — as he said it himself, that we’re close
to a framework here in terms of getting the humanitarian assistance in. 
And — and we’re optimistic that we’ll be able to latch down that
framework and get that aid in.  
  
Q    Is there a timeline for getting that started?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I think — I don’t want to get ahead of where we are right
now.   
  
Obviously, we all believe strongly that the humanitarian assistance
needs to flow as soon as possible.  I mean, there are people in real
need in Gaza.  And we want to make sure that they get the food, water,
medicine, electrical power that they desperately need.  Because, I mean,
it is a desperate need.  
  
So, “as soon as possible” is what we’re — what we’re working on.   
  
But, you know, how that — what that framework is actually going to be
and how — and what the milestones are going to be, I just don’t think
we’re in a position right now to speak to.  
  
Q    John, when — when the President met with Jewish leaders last week,
he really stressed the importance of Israel to operate under the rules
of war.  Thus far, does he believe Israel has operated under the rules
of war?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I don’t think we’re going to react in near real time, Aamer,
to every single event that happens on the battlefield.  It’s a very
dynamic situation, literally changing by the hour.  And it wouldn’t be
appropriate for us to react again, you know, to initial reports one way
or the other.  
  
Q    A week’s worth of actions, though.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Look, we’re just not going to — we’re not going to get into
the business of reacting, again, as I said, in near real time.   
  
We’re going to — as we have from the beginning — and I suspect you’ll
hear this again tomorrow — we’re going to continue to talk to the
Israelis about the — the absolute need to protect innocent civilian life
and to observe the laws of war.  And that is what separates Israel and
the United States from Hamas, which is a terrorist organization that
abides by no law.  
  
So, we’re — we’re going to have to continue — we will continue to have
those conversations.  
  
Q    Why not just push this trip back three days until after the period
of mourning is over?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  There is still a pretty robust agenda of things to get done
in Tel Aviv, as I just went through.  
  
Q    Sure.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Plenty of important meetings.  He wants to have these
discussions directly with Prime Minister Netanyahu and the war cabinet. 
He’s looking forward to having an opportunity to thank the first
responders.  He obviously feels it’s important, as is his normal desire,
to talk to family members who are suffering and anxious and worried and
— and grieving.  I mean, all these are important things to do.   
  
So, even though the Amman portion isn’t going to happen, again, for
perfectly understandable reasons, that doesn’t negate the reason for
going.  
  
And, again, to my answer to Peter, this decision was very much informed
by Secretary Austin’s visit, Secretary Blinken’s shuttle diplomacy over
the last few days, all of which helped convince the President that now
is exactly the right time to go.  
  
Q    Without telling us the timeline, are the Israelis keeping the White
House informed on the timeline for the invasion of the Gaza Strip?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Yeah, I will not talk about — I don’t — I don’t talk about
U.S. potential operations.  I’m certainly not going to talk about —  
  
Q    If you’re read — if you’re read in?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I don’t speak for the Israelis and what they’re planning and
what their — what their intentions are.  
  
Q    Are they refusing to share their timeline?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I’m — I’m not going to — I’m not going to get into the
private conversations that we’re having with Israeli leaders.  That —
that wouldn’t be appropriate.  These are their military operations, and
they have to make those decisions and speak to them for themselves.  
  
Q    If you could dive further into — following on JJ’s questions —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I mean, as I said in the topper — and he certainly is coming
tomorrow with the — desiring to ask questions about their — as a friend,
as to intentions about — ask questions about their intentions and their
plans.  
  
Q    Will he repeat his belief that he thinks it’s a — it would be a
mistake to occupy Gaza to Netanyahu?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I think — I think you’ll hear from the President after —
after his meetings.  And we should just leave it at that.  
  
Q    Should we expect comments from —  
  
Q    Does he expect to make any progress on securing the release of the
Americans on this trip?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  We think they should be released now.  We are working,
literally, by the hour to try to find a way to get them back home with
their families.   
  
Obviously, we have what we know is a small number of Americans are in
this hostage pool, but there are many, many others from different
countries, as well as, of course, Israel.  Hamas should release them all
now.  
  
And we are in active discussions.  And as I said in my opening
statement, the President will have discussions with Israeli counterparts
about what they know tomorrow on the ground.  
  
Q    What’s your numbers on the American casualties and missing at this
point?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  From what — I think — well, Karine, I think, topped that. 
There’s 31 Americans that have been killed.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yes.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  And the number of unaccounted for is at 13 right now.  
  
Q    What sort of thinking is going on about Gaza refugees and whether
some should go to the United States?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I don’t have any update for you on refugee resettlement. 
Right now, Steve, the focus is on getting humanitarian assistance in and
trying to work on some measure of safe passage out.  
  
Q    Is there any contingency planning for the U.S. forces that are in
the area to go in and get the American hostages?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  You know what, the l- — the less said, the better when it
comes to how we’re trying to get hostages home.  I think you can all
understand that it’s imperative that we don’t publicly detail too much
of our thinking, lest those comments actually make it harder to — to
effect that outcome.  
  
Q    Do you have any update on the status of negotiations with Egypt
over the opening of the Rafah gate or — or just their role in sort of
the ongoing — their — their ongoing role in — in humanitarian or hostage
release?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  <s>Israel</s> \[Egypt\] is the critical player here,
obviously, because they control that side of the Rafah gate.  
  
Q    Egypt?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Did I say “Israel”?  I meant E- — Egypt, sorry.  Egypt:
critical player here.  Please correct that in the transcript.   
  
Well, both — both countries are critical, actually.  But — but, yes,
Egypt has a critical role to play.  We are in — and Secretary Blinken
had many conversations with his Egyptian counterparts about this over
the past week or so.  The President has — has also, in his conversations
with President Sisi, talked about this. 

So, we’ll — we know they — they have a critical role to play in opening
up that gate and allowing humanitarian aid in.  And, again, I think,
based on the conversations we’ve had, we’re optimistic that — that we’re
getting close to a framework for making that happen.

Q    And Blinken had a seven-and-a-half-hour meeting with Israelis
during his visit to Tel Aviv, and there was a signal that there secured
some humanitarian package in aid.  We haven’t seen a lot of detail. 
Should we expect to receive more details about what that exactly looks
like in the coming hour?

MR. KIRBY:  Let’s — they’ll be — that’ll be a main part of the agenda
tomorrow.  And I just — I don’t want to get ahead of where — where
things are.

Q    The — the administration and Karine and you had said that you’d be
sending up a supplemental aid package request to the Congress this
week.  Is there anything that you can tell us about it?   
  
Obviously, I know you’re going to talk to the Prime Minister about what
Israel needs.  But in terms of the ask for Ur- — Ukraine and the size or
length of that funding —

MR. KIRBY:  We still anticipate being able to make a supplemental
request to Congress this week.  I’m not going to get ahead.  I think you
can understand that we’re not going to do that.  We’re in active
conversations with Congress about what that can look like. 

But, clearly, we believe that support to Ukraine and support to Israel
remain important to our own national security interests, and we’re going
to continue to have an active conversation with Congress about securing
supplemental funding because both of it is needed. 

Look, we have appropriations to help Ukraine for a little while longer. 
We have existing authorities and appropriations to help Israel for a
little while longer.  But by dint of the fact that neither of these
conflicts show any sign of coming to closure anytime soon, we are
absolutely going to need supplemental funding and support from Congress.

Q    You’re open to Taiwan money and border money being part of that?

MR. KIRBY:  I’m not going get ahead of where we are.

Q    We’re seeing some numbers out there, John, for the —

MR. KIRBY:  Are you?

Q    Yeah.  (Laughs.)

MR. KIRBY:  Oh, my goodness.  (Laughter.) 

No, I’m not going to confirm any numbers.

Q    Triple-digit numbers.

MR. KIRBY:  I’m not going to confirm any numbers.

Q    John, both Egypt and Jordan’s economies have been faltering long
before the Hamas attack.  Moody’s, I think, just in the last few days
has downgraded Egypt’s ra- — rating even further.  As the future doesn’t
really look good in the light of this for both of their economies, is
there any sort of talk in place, any discussion within the
administration about trying to bolster both of their economies?

MR. KIRBY:  I don’t have anything — I don’t have anything really to — to
add to that.  I mean, no, I’m — not that I’m — not that I’m aware of. 

Q    Thank you.

MR. KIRBY:  Okay.  You guys good?

Q    Yep.

MR. KIRBY:  I’ll let you go at Karine now.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I can’t imagine what else you guys —

Q    Well, do have any comment on what’s going on on the Hill with the
struggle to get —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No.

Q    — Jim Jordan —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — thank you, Admiral. 

So, we’ve been very clear about — about the Speaker’s race.  We — the
President has said he doesn’t have a vote in any of this.  As you know,
the House is majority — the majority belongs to the Republicans.  It is
their — it is their duty, their process.  And we’re just not going to
get involved in it. 

But we have been very clear that there’s a lot of business to get done
for the American people, and they need to get their House in order. 
They need to stop the chaos and get to work and do their basic duty,
which is, you know, deliver for the American people. 

So, we’re just not going to comment.  We’re going to let the process go
forward.

Q    Karine, the President often talks about this larger battle between
democracy and autocracy, and proving to not only American citizens but
to other world leaders and people around the world that in order to, in
his words, beat back autocracies, you have to prove democracy can work. 
There is not a Speaker of the House, preventing legislation from being
taken up. 

Is the President — and not speaking specifically about who he supports
or the process but just broadly, does the Pres- — is the President
concerned that the lack of a functioning House is a detriment to his
larger argument about proving democracy can work?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, I’ve said this before in the briefing room: It
does not look good that we’re seeing chaos in Congress — in the House,
specifically — by Republicans.  It doesn’t.  It doesn’t look good.  It
doesn’t help.  And — and so, that’s why we keep saying that Republicans
in the House need to, you know — and I’ve called it, you know, their
“shambolic behavior” — they need to get their selves in order. 

We have not seen a conference like this — a Republican Conference be so
chaotic — I don’t think — at least not in my lifetime.  And — and we
believe that the President wants to continue to deliver for the American
people.  And you’ve seen the last — the last two, three weeks — right? —
when we — when we thought there was going to be — when we thought there
was going to be a shutdown, you saw the President doing something every
day to deliver for the American people.

That’s not going to stop him.  Right?  That’s not going to stop him to
get to work and to make sure that we’re meeting the needs that the
Americans need. 

But — but to your — to your point, yeah, it does not look good.  It is a
problem.  And that’s why we’re going to continue to say they need to get
their conference in order and select their leader.  We do not have a
vote in this.  And they need to get to work.

Q    Is there any point the President would get involved in these
conversations or negotiations, especially as we might get closer to
another government shut- — potential government shutdown?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, we’ve been very clear: This is for them to
fix.  They have the majority in the House.  When I say “they,”
Republicans — they have the majority in the House.  It is for them to
fix.  They have to select who the Speaker is going to be, and they have
to move with their process, and that is for them to speak.   
  
Look, as it relates to — you know, as it relates to a potential
shutdown, where we’re going to be, you know, by November 17th, you know,
we have continued to have conversations with members of Congress.  You —
you’ve heard from the OMB director.  You know our Office of Leg Affairs
have had constant conversations with them.   
  
The President did a budget deal — a deal with them when the deficit was
being spoken about back in May and June.  We came to the table.  We had
a bipar- — there was a bipartisan piece of legislation that was signed
and that two thirds of the Hou- — House Republicans voted for.  So, the
deal was made.  They need to get to work and get this done on behalf of
the American people.  
  
Q    I’ll just ask one more.  You know, Hezbollah has threatened this
rain of rockets on Wednesday as the President will be arriving.  So,
what are — what’s the mood of the — the White House staff and the people
around him going into this situation?  And has — have those threats
registered at all with the President or staff?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, honestly, I have not had direct conversations
with anybody on the staff, not even the President.   
  
What I can say is: This trip that we’re making is important.  It’s
historical, obviously, because of the moment that we in — we’re in and
because of what’s happening in the region.  And so, the President felt
it was — it was critical to go to — to Israel.   
  
We wanted to go to Jordan.  Obviously, the Admiral just explained how we
got to not going there.  And there’s going to be critical, important
conversations as it relates to humanitarian aid, as it relates to the
hostages and how that’s a top priority.  
  
And so, there will be many topics and agendas that’s going to be
discussed.  Look, you know, of course these types of trips have risks,
right?  And so, we understand that, but there’s also — the President
understands how important it is to have these diplomatic conversations
to get things done.   
  
You heard the Admiral talk about these types of conversations are also
important for our own national security.  And it is a time that we want
to show that we are there for our allies in Israel and the people of
Israel at this time.   
  
And so, there will be — the President is going to give remarks
tomorrow.  He’ll share a lot more.  You’ll hear directly from him on
what his thoughts are and why he — why he is in the region and what he
wants to accomplish.  I’m certainly not going to get ahead of him.  
  
Thanks, guys.

8:39 P.M. EDT
