---
date: '2023-10-23'
modified_time: 2023-10-23 18:52:01-04:00
published_time: 2023-10-23 18:52:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2023/10/23/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-nsc-coordinator-for-strategic-communications-john-kirby-22/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and NSC Coordinator for\
  \ Strategic Communications John\_Kirby"
---
 
1:19 P.M. EDT  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Good afternoon, everybody.  Good to see everyone. 
Have a couple things at the top before I turn it over to the Admiral.

As the conflict between Israel and Hamas continues, President Biden has
made it a top priority to ensure that the Palestinian people receive
urgently needed humanitarian aid.  This is something he’s been actively
engaged on over the past week, including calls with President Sisi of
Egypt and in meetings and calls with Prime Minister Netanyahu.   
  
We were glad to see the first convoys of humanitarian assistance over
the weekend cross the border into Gaza and reach Palestinians in need,
and we’re grateful for partners involved in these efforts.

It is important to keep Rafah Crossing in operation and aid flowing
without diversion from Hamas.

Humanitarian <s>assistant</s> \[assistance\] remains a critical and
urgent need for Palestinians in Gaza.  We know — we know and we
understand this — that much more is needed, and this will remain a
priority — a priority for us in the days and weeks ahead.  
  
I also wanted to say a few words about the supplemental request that we
detailed to all of you on Friday.   
  
Under President Biden’s leadership, we have rallied a global response to
Putin’s invasion of Ukraine and provided aid to Israel following Hamas’s
barbaric terrorist attack.  
  
We know need — we — we now need — pardon me.  We now need Congress to
provide additional resources that will advance our national security and
support allies — our allies and partners in their fight against tyrants
and terrorists.

The supplemental the President put forward:

-   Invests in American defense industrial base to ensure our military
    readiness, strengthen the American economy, and create American jobs
-   Support Israel as it protects itself against Hamas
-   Helps Ukraine defend against Putin’s brutal invasion
-   Provides humanitarian assistance to innocent civilians devastated by
    Putin’s invasion and Hamas’s hor- — horrific attacks
-   Strengthens security and stability in the Indo-Pacific
-   Provides alternatives to <s>corrosive</s> \[coercive\] financing by
    PRC — the PRC
-   Strengthens border security and fights the flow of fentanyl

The world is watching, and the American people expect their leaders to
come together and deliver on these priorities.  We will continue to work
with members of both parties to address these needs in a bipartisan
agreement in the weeks ahead.  
  
And with that, Admiral John Kirby from the National Security Council is
here to answer any questions that you have on Israel and any other
foreign-related items.

Admiral.

MR. KIRBY:  Thank you, Karine.

Good afternoon, everybody.  Just to briefly recap events of the past few
days, I thought it would be good to kind of catch up here after the
weekend.  
  
On Friday, I think you all know, we successfully secured the release of
two Americans that had been taken hostage by Hamas during the horrific
terrorist assault on 7th of October, and the President had the chance to
speak with them and with their families.

As he told other families that he met in Tel Aviv — family members of
others who have — who have been taken hostage: We — we have no higher —
higher priority than the safety of Americans that are being held around
the world, and we’re con- — going to continue around the clock to see if
we can get them home with their families where they belong.  
It is literally an hour-by-hour effort here at the White House and at
the State Department to find out where these folks are and to try to
make as ma- — the effort to — to get them out and get them back.

As Karine just spoke about, of course, the first convoys over the
weekend of humanitarian assistance crossed that border and was able to
reach Palestinians in need.  And as she also said, we’re going to
continue those efforts going forward.  It’s important that the aid be
sustainable, and that’s what we’re focused on.  
  
And, of course, throughout the weekend, the President received briefings
from his national security team on all the latest developments.   
  
And yesterday, as you know, he convened calls with Prime Minister
Netanyahu, His Holiness Pope Francis, and then, of course, with the
leaders of Canada, France, Germany, Italy, and the United Kingdom.

I’m sure you all saw the joint statement from all those leaders that
they released last night, so I won’t reiterate it.  But you can,
hopefully, take away from that a real clear consistency and unanimity
for Is- — Israel’s right to defend itself against terrorism while, of
course, adhering to international humanitarian law, including the
protection of civilians.  
  
Now, we’ve also seen, over the course of the last few days — actually,
the course of the last week, but certainly over the last couple of days
of the weekend — an uptick in rocket and drone attacks by Iranian-backed
proxy groups against military bases housing U.S. personnel in Iraq and
Syria.  And we’re deeply concerned about the potential for any
significant escalation of these attacks in the days ahead.  
  
At the direction of President Biden, the Secretary of Defense has
ordered the military to take steps to prepare for this to ensure that
we’re postured appropriately, both in terms of being able to defend our
forces and respond decisively as needed.

The Secretary of Defense has directed two carrier strike groups to the
region, and we are now sending more air defenses to U.S. air bases in
the region.  
  
Now, we know these groups are supported by the IRGC and their regime. 
We know Iran continues to support Hamas and Hezbollah.  And we know that
Iran is closely monitoring these events and, in some cases, actively
facilitating these attacks and spurring on others who may want to
exploit the conflict for their own good or for that of Iran.  
  
We know Iran’s goal is to maintain some level of deniability here, but
we’re not going to allow them to do that.

We also are not going to allow any threat to our interests in the region
to go unchallenged.  
  
We demonstrated last — we demonstrated last week that we have and will
use the military <s>capables</s> \[capabilities\] available to us to
protect and defend those interests.  And those capabilities are getter
bigger and better every day.   
  
As President Biden has said, our message to any hostile actor seeking to
escalate or widen this conflict is very simple: Don’t do it.

With that —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right. 

MR. KIRBY:  — I’ll take some questions.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thanks, Admiral.

Go ahead, Steve.

Q    John, is it your view that the Israelis should begin their Gaza
offensive whenever they feel ready?

MR. KIRBY:  It’s our view that the Israeli Defense Forces, Steve, need
to decide for themselves how they’re going to conduct operations.  We’re
not in the business of — of dictating terms to them, and we’re certainly
not going to be in the business here from the White House of previewing
any — any future operations one way or the other.  That would be
inappropriate.

Q    And then, secondly, you said that Iran is actively facilitating
these attacks.  What do you see?  What — what exactly are they doing?

MR. KIRBY:  Oh, their support for these Iran-backed proxies is no
secret.  It’s pretty open.  And they’ve tried to make — they’ve made no
secret of it — funding; resourcing, in terms of providing the rockets
and the — and the munitions that they fire; training for some of these
guys.

I mean, there is a — there is a connection between these — these groups
and the IRGC — a very direct connection.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, MJ.

Q    The — we have reported that the administration has been urging
Israel to delay a ground invasion.  Can you tell us whether other
countries are making the same request?  Is there a coordinated effort on
that front?

MR. KIRBY:  I won’t — MJ, I won’t speak for other nations and what
communications they might be having with Israel. 

I can tell you, we have, since the beginning of the conflict, in the
early hours, maintained a level of communication with our Israeli
counterparts to ascertain their intentions, their strategy, their aims
to — to see what their answers are to the kinds of tough questions that
any military ought to be asking before you launch any kind of a major
operation.  Have you thought through the branches?  Have you thought
through the sequels?  Have you thought through the unintended
consequences?  
  
And so, we are in active conversation with them about that.   
  
Q    And, John, we’ve seen a number of leaders travel to Israel or
commit to traveling to Israel — of course, the President himself.   
  
Is it your understanding that there would not be a ground invasion as
long as there’s a head of state in the country?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  That — that is a question for Israeli officials to speak to,
MJ.  Again, I just don’t want to be in the position where I am speaking
for the Israeli Defense Forces.   
  
Q    And just — another quick topic.  Why is it that people currently
are not able to leave Gaza right now?  Do you have, sort of, an
explanation as to why that humanitarian corridor for people to exit Gaza
— why that isn’t open?  Is the obstacle Hamas?  Is it the Egyptians?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I think there’s a lot of factors going into why there’s no
exit out.  We’re glad that stuff is going in, as Karine briefed you all,
but — but we still want to see safe passage out and particularly for the
several hundred American citizens that we know are in Gaza and want to
leave.  And Ambassador Satterfield is on the ground, working this very,
very hard.   
  
But there’s a number of factors.  And I think security — certainly,
Egyptian officials have — have spoken to this.  I mean, there’s a — you
know, they’ve got legitimate security concerns.  And again, we just need
to — we just need to work through that.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Kelly.  
  
Q    Admiral, can you tell us the latest on the status of hostages and
the work to try to release additional hostages?  Do you see a category
of those being held who might be, sort of, the next available to be
released if that were to take place? Can you give us a sense of what
that picture looks like?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I wish I could, Kelly.  I really do.  And these are all
great questions.  But unfortunately, where we are right now in the
process makes it impossible for us to publicly detail the efforts that
are going on.  
  
We are grateful for all of the help we got — and we got help — getting
those two Americans out — the mother and daughter.  And we’re glad that
— that they’re okay and they’re, you know, going to be reunited with the
families and come back home.  But there’s a bunch of others that
aren’t.  
  
Now, a small group, we still — we still think, are Americans.  And then,
there are dozens and dozens from other countries and, obviously, Israel
as well.   
  
And there’s just a lot of effort going on, a lot of conversations and
discussions with partners in the region.  And I think it’s just best if
we don’t detail that.  
  
Q    Do we have more specificity on the number of Americans?  It’s
floated from “a handful” to as many as 10.  Anything more on that?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I want to be careful here because the numbers, as you
rightly said, have fluctuated since the last time I talked to you. 
Certainly, now we’re glad to know that the number is less than — less —
down by two, obviously.  But we still have about 10 unaccounted for
Americans, and it’s not exactly clear to us where those 10 people
are.   
  
So, I would still categorize it as about a handful.  But — and I know
that’s not the specificity you want, but that’s really as — as detailed
as I think I should get today.  
  
Q    And one — one last issue.  There’s a dual national from Maryland —
a young man who went to serve in the IDF who was killed in action.  Can
you speak to that situation — if the President has reached the family or
has any intention to do that?  Any particulars there?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Well, I’ll certainly offer our deepest condolences to the
family.  That’s — that’s news no — no mom and dad ever want to get.  
  
I don’t have any communication to speak to one way or the other.  But
again, our — our thoughts and prayers go to the family.  Sure.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, JJ.  
  
Q    John, on a post-Hamas Gaza, if that were to happen, is there
anything that you can share on what conversations the U.S. is having on
what that post-Hamas Gaza would look like and who would run things?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Really, that’s going to be a conversation that Israeli
officials, you know, need to start having amongst themselves.   
  
And I think — again, without speaking for them, I don’t think I’m going
too far to say that the — the focus right now is on going after Hamas
where they are in Gaza, getting humanitarian assistance in, and getting
people out.  That’s where our focus is.  
  
And — and I know the focus of the Is- — our Israeli counterparts is
certainly on prosecuting these operations against Hamas.   
  
I think the issue of governance in Gaza certainly is not unimportant,
but I — I wouldn’t speak for the Israelis in terms of how deeply they’re
diving down into what that — what that needs to look like.  
  
Q    But the U.S. is helping with that conversation piece?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  We have had — we have talked to the Israelis, again, about
their aims and strategy, and that includes some of the long-term issues
that — that are out ahead of them.  But I think you can understand,
appropriately, right now that the focus is on the operational
picture.   
  
Q    And then, on the normalization process, can you say if Saudi Arabia
has provided a list of requests for what it would like to see for that —
those talks to start again between Saudi Arabia and Israel?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I’m not tracking or aware of a specific threat.  Now, you’re
talking post-October 7th.  I’m not aware of some sort of new list or
homework assignment that they’ve submitted.  
  
We still believe that those talks are important.  We still want to
pursue normalization.  We understand that both in Israel and, of course,
in Riyadh, there’s a different focus right now.  We get that.   
  
But we still believe there’s great value in pursuing normalization, and
we have every intention of keeping that going.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Nancy.  
  
Q    Thank you, Admiral.  What kinds of humanitarian aid would the U.S.
like to see reaching the Palestinians before Israel launches a ground
invasion?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Let’s — can I bifurcate that question?  Because I don’t —
I’m not going to sit here and assume that there’s going to be some sort
of a ground invasion.  And I’m certainly not going to speak to
hypothetical timing if there’s going to be.  
  
Let’s just talk about humanitarian assistance writ large.  And you heard
Karine: We are getting food, water, medicine into Gaza.  Not enough.  I
mean, there’s been, I think — what? — three convoys to Gaza.  Not
enough.   
  
I mean, there’s been, I think — what? — three convoys, some — a little
less than 60 trucks.  That’s a good start, but it is just a start, and
we want to see it keep going.  And I think, over the coming days, you’re
going to continue to see convoys of trucks getting in.   
  
But it’s also, you know — fuel was also an issue.  We know that you need
fuel to run the power generators in hospitals.  You need fuel to run the
pumps in — in the desalination facility so that people can drink fresh,
healthy water.  So, fuel is another thing that we’re — that we’re
working on.  
  
Q    But whether or not there is a ground invasion, do you view
humanitarian aid getting there first as important?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Whether or not there’s a ground invasion, we believe that
humanitarian assistance flowing to the people of Gaza is critically
important and it needs to go as soon as possible and as much as
possible.   
  
Q    So, where does the President stand on this?  Because there was some
confusion over the weekend about whether or not he had said that, yes,
he does want Israel to wait until human assistance — humanitarian
assistance can get to the Palestinians before any invasion.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  We have been — we have been crystal clear with our partners
in the region, including Israel, that we want to see humanitarian
assistance flow.  There’s been no change to our posture on that at
all.   
  
But as I said, I think to Steve’s question, we’re not dictating military
terms to the Israeli Defense Forces.  They have a right and a
responsibility to go after these terrorists.  And they certainly are
going to do it in a way that they choose to — that they believe is
appropriate to the threat.   
  
We’re definitely going to support them in terms of providing the
capabilities for them to continue to prosecute Hamas terrorists.  In
fact, security assistance has continued to flow over the course of the
weekend, and it will.  But we’re not dictating terms to them.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  
  
Q    So, the — thank you.  So, the U.N. Secretary-General, the European
Union Foreign Policy Chief, and several international leaders are
calling for a humanitarian ceasefire.  Will we see the United States
calling for a humanitarian pause?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  What we want right now is: make sure Israel has the tools it
needs to defend itself and to go after Hamas and that humanitarian
assistance keeps flowing.  
  
Now, it’s started, and it’s good thing.  We want to keep it going and
keep it sustainable.  That’s what we’re focused on.  
  
Q    Admiral, so sorry.  You mentioned this joint statement yesterday
where President Biden and several Western allies asked Israel to protect
civilians, but the death toll in Gaza is rising sharply.  Does it look
to you that Israel is abiding by international law?  Are they listening
to your advice?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  We’re not going to parcel out each and every event that
happens on the battlefield, especially since we’re not there.  
  
I can just tell you that there hasn’t been a conversation that we’ve had
with Israeli counterparts — and we’ve had them at all levels — where we
aren’t talking about not just what they want to do but how they want to
do it.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Jacqui.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  John, two Fridays ago, I reported that the U.S.
was urging Israel to delay a ground invasion.  The day after, officials
here issued statements to other outlets denying that was the case.  In
the days, week-plus since, other outlets have started to report the same
information that I had.  But today, you’re not confirming any of those
reports.  
  
My question is, aren’t you at all concerned that if the U.S. is not
clear with the public about what we’re asking or suggesting to Israel
that they do here that that’s going to complicate getting this aid
package through Congress?  I mean, you guys are asking for more than
$105 billion, which a portion of this goes toward Israel.  Are — are you
concerned that not being clear with folks about what the U.S. is
advising Israel to do will hamper support in Congress for this aid?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  We’ve been very clear and consistent about our support for
Israel and their ability to defend themselves, Jacqui.  We’ve been very
clear and consistent about the fact that we’re going to keep providing
security assistance so that they can do that.  We’ve been clear and
consistent about the need for humanitarian assistance to flow, and clear
and consistent about our desire to get people out of Gaza, as well as to
get our hostages home. 

I think we’ve been very clear and consistent throughout, and that
includes with members of Congress.   
  
And yes, we are going to need congressional support to continue to
support Israel.  We’ve got enough appropriations available to us for a
while longer.  How long is that “while” is going to depend on the
expenditure rate and the kinds of operations that they’re conducting.   
  
So, we desperately need Congress to act on the supplemental request.  
  
Q    Well, you said you were — you’ve been asking tough questions about
— of the Israelis about their strategy here.  Are you liking the answers
that they’re giving you?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I’m not going to talk about the details of the conversations
that we’re having.  Again, these have been clear and consistent
conversations, again, making sure that they have what they need and that
they — and that they are thinking through — that we are asking them what
their answers are to the kinds of questions that any military ought to
be asking itself as it conducts operations.  
  
Q    But on the —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahe- —  
  
Q    — on the aid portion, you know, how, for instance, are you going to
convince people that this is not going to get into Hamas’s hands —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — when, for instance, you know, we saw fraud with something like
COVID relief money in the U.S., and we’re now talking about securing an
understanding with Hamas — a terror group — about how this humanitarian
aid should be used?  I mean, how can you convince people that that is
going to be a worthwhile, necessary, and secure endeavor?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  We certainly share concerns about any diversion of
humanitarian assistance for Hamas purposes.  I mean, for instance, fuel
is a good example.   
  
You know, that the — we know that they need fuel to be able to electrify
and to power up their tunnels, for instance, you know, keep the lights
on.  So, we — we understand that. 

We’re not blind to potential concerns here over diversion, which is why
Ambassador Satterfield is on the ground.  His whole purpose is to make
sure that that humanitarian assistance can get to the Palestinian
people.   
  
We have seen no indications, as of today, that any of the trucks that
Karine talked about, any of the material in those trucks have been
diverted to Hamas or been absconded by Hamas.  That — in fact, every
indication that we have is that it has in fact gone to — to the
Palestinian people, who — who are — who are in desperate need for it.   
  
I would remind folks that we have trusted partners on the ground —
humanitarian aid organizations and, of course, the U.N. Relief Agency is
on the ground — and they very much are taking a personal stake — a
professional and personal stake in making sure that that aid is getting
where it’s needed.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  And we’re go- — and we’re going to watch it clo- —
obviously, we’re going to watch this closely.  We — we don’t want to see
Hamas benefit any more than anybody else does.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Just following on that, how does the U.S. go about knowing that it
is getting to who it’s supposed — the aid is getting to who it’s
supposed to get to and not — Hamas isn’t taking a bit off the top?  
  
And then, second, could you confirm that the President has sent
Lieutenant General James Glynn and some other folks to advise the
Israelis?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  So, on your first question, Aamer — in fact, I’m going to
write these down because I’m going to probably forget.  (Laughs.)   
  
But on your first question, as I said, we’re working with trusted
partners on the ground, including the U.N.  And that’s the way we — we
do it in so many countries around the world where we don’t have a
footprint and we don’t have a — or any regions of the world we just —
where we don’t have a footprint.   
  
I mean, we’re not on the ground to personally inspect these things, but
we do have trusted partners on the ground, including the U.N. and some
of these aid organizations who will report what they’re seeing and — and
where they’re taking this material and — and who — and who’s getting
it.  So, we’re — we’ll stay in close touch with them.   
  
And we all share the same desire that Hamas not be able to divert any of
this stuff for their own purposes.  We all share that des- — and it’s
not just the United States.  You said “How’s the United States going to
monitor…”  The whole international community has a stake here in making
sure that the people of Gaza get this food, water, medicine, and other
vital needs met.  
  
On the — your second question, what I can tell you is that — that there
are a few relevant military officers with experience — the kinds of
experience that — that — that we believe is appropriate to the sorts of
operations that — that Israel is conducting and may conduct in the
future to go over there to share some perspectives from their own
experience and to ask the hard questions — the same hard questions that
we’ve been asking of our Israeli counterparts since the beginning.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead —  
  
Q    Can you say how many?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  A few.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  A few.   
  
Q    Thank you, Admiral.  Israel has repeatedly said that its top
priority is destroying Hamas, so what is America’s top priority?  And
are the two countries on the same page here?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  America’s top priority — I think President Biden made that
clear when we were over there — is to make sure that Israel has the
tools and the capacity and the capabilities to go after Hamas terrorists
and to make sure humanitarian assistance flows in and to make sure we
can get innocent civilians who want to leave Gaza out, including
American citizens.  
  
Q    If Israel does begin this ground invasion, could you just outline
how this would complicate getting the remaining hostages out and how it
would impact America’s strategy?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Again, I just don’t think it’s wise for me to get up here
and do a bunch of speculating and hypothesizing about operations that
haven’t happened yet.  We’ll let the Israelis speak for themselves and
for what operations they’re going to conduct.   
  
All I can tell you is we’re going to make sure that they have what they
need to do it and that the humanitarian assistance keeps flowing.  
  
Q    But are there any differences?  Because you outlined three top
priorities for America, and Israel has repeatedly said the top priority
is destroying Hamas.  So, how can you achieve all of the priorities from
America at the same time Israel gets their top priority?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  We agree that the top priority has got to be going after
Hamas.  I — there’s no — there’s no daylight here.  We also think it’s
important for humanitarian assistance to flow and for our hostages to
get home with their families, and we’re working all three of those
things.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  Way in the back.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you.  Have you been tracking new reporting coming out that
Hamas and the Red Cross are working together to exchange another 50
Israeli and dual-citizenship hostages?  Is there anything you can say
about that?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  No, I cannot.   
  
Q    And then, another question on Iran.  Some officials have expressed
concern over escalation, particularly with Iran.  And Iran’s foreign
minister warned, quote, “Anything would be possible at any moment and
the region will get out of control.” 

So, have you seen any indication that Iran is preparing to further
expand this conflict more so than what we’ve already seen play out?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I touched a little bit on that in my opening statement.  We
know that they’re supporting these groups.  We know they’ve supported
Hamas and Hezbollah.  We know they’re monitoring these events very, very
closely, and in some cases, urging on some of these groups.   
  
And that’s why I made it clear the President wants to — does not want to
see this conflict widen.  We have added additional military capability
into the region to deter any such action.  And we will act appropriately
to protect and defend our national security inters- in the re- —
security interests in the region.   
  
You saw that just last week when a guided-missile destroyer shot down
missiles and drones that were potentially on their way into Israel.  We
— we take those responsibilities seriously, and anybody else in the
region ought to be paying attention to that.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  John, do you have an update on whether Iran was
directly involved in the October 7th attack on Israel?  Because some
Israeli officials say that they have evidence, but they have not
presented any yet.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Yeah, I would say we’re in the same place we were.  We know
there is complicity here by Iran.  As I just said, they have been
supporting Hamas for years — dec- — a couple of decades, and Hamas
wouldn’t be able to function or exist without Iran.   
  
But I can’t stand here before you and say that we’ve seen a particular
piece of intelligence that — that shows that they were participating in,
witting of, directing what happened on October 7th.  
  
But again, nobody’s doubting, nobody’s walking away from the fact that
Iran does bad things with bad people in that part of the world.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead —  
  
Q    On China, how does the White House see China’s role in the
Israel-Hamas conflict?  And what’s your reaction to China sending six
warships to, like, the Middle East?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I’ll let China speak for their foreign policy in the region
and — and whatever their — their take is.  I — I’ve seen them call for
both sides to — to ratchet down the — the violence.   
  
We — we’ve been clear about where we are, and we’re on Israel’s side
here.  Israel needs this support to go after Hamas terrorists.  That’s
not going to change.   
  
And I’ll let them speak to their naval maneuvers and where they’re
putting their ships.  
  
Q    Are you talking to China or Russia on the Israel-Hamas conflict or
not?   
  
MR. KIRBY:  I know of no particular conversations we’ve had bilaterally
with either country thus far.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.   
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  John, speaking of the Americans in Gaza, some are
being told that — by the State Department and by the administration to
go to the border.  We were told on Saturday they were told to go the
border, but they obviously could not leave.   
  
Are you still advising Americans to go to the border?  You know, what’s
the holdup there?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  You’d have to talk to the State Department.  I — I can’t
speak for the communication that they’re having with American citizens
there.   
  
What I can tell you is that we are working this very, very hard to get
them out of Gaza, again, through that — through Rafah.  And Ambassador
Satterfield literally is working this as you and I are speaking right
now.   
  
And so, we obviously — if we — if we want to get them out, we want to
have them available, as close by as possible so that that can be
affected in a very efficient way.   
  
But as for what specific messages the State Department is sending today,
on Monday, you’d have to talk to them.  
  
Q    Speaking about what President Biden said on Friday at the
fundraiser — he talked about the Hamas attack being carried out to
disrupt the normalization efforts between Israel and Saudi Arabia.  Can
you talk more about what he meant by that?  Is that the administration’s
position, is what I’m (inaudible)?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  We certainly can’t discount the fact that that could have
been — that could have been a goal here.  I mean, look, Hamas wants to
wipe Israel off the map.  They simply just want to kill as many Israelis
as they can.  That was the purpose of October 7th: to just take life.   
  
And it is perfectly possible that — that there were other geopolitical
goals here, as the President alluded to, because normalization between
Israel and Saudi Arabia, you can see that that would not be in the
interest of terrorist groups like Hamaz \[sic\] it cert- — Hamas — it
certainly wouldn’t be in the interest of — of their backer in Tehran.   
  
Q    Do you think that’s the top reason why they did it?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I — I can’t specify specifically what the top reason.  I’m
not — I’m not in the minds of the — the terrorists.  But the — the
President was certainly laying out a very real potential factor behind
what they did.   
  
Q    Admiral Kirby, do you —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Danny.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  Admiral, the President has spoken a lot about, you
know, the work he’s done in building a coalition behind — behind Ukraine
in supporting Ukraine.  Are there any concerns that U.S. support for
Israel and — and, you know, as civilian casualties rise in Gaza — is
there any concern that that could undermine support for the U.S. stance
on Ukraine with countries in the Global South, for example, and from
Brazil and Asia and Africa, who, you know, might be in — you know, in
terms of their — you know, their views on — on Gaza?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Look, supporting both right now — both countries is
important to President Biden.  That’s why we submitted a supplemental
funding request last week.  It’s important that both get the support
that they need not just from the United States, but from the
international community.   
  
And — and we’re — we’re dedicated to that outcome.  We’re going to stay
dedicated to that — to that effort.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Yes.  I wanted to ask you about if they are concerns in the
administration regard — in regards to this funding that you guys
requested from Congress, given the fact that some of the leadership of
the Republican Caucus was saying that they would like to approve only a
package for Israel and a separate package for Ukraine.   
  
MR. KIRBY:  Yeah, I’ll let members of Congress speak for themselves in
terms of how they want to move this supplemental request forward.   
  
We submitted together because we believe all of it is important.  Every
dollar that we asked for for the supplemental funding is of an urgent
nature, and we urge Congress to move on all of it as quickly as
possible.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Phil.  
  
Q    Thank you.  With regards to American hostages, you noted that there
were conversations and discussions with partners in the region.  And on
Friday, after those two Americans were thankfully freed, the President
thanked the Israelis and Qataris for their partnership in this work. 
Are the Israelis or Qataris negotiating with Hamas on our behalf?  And
would the United States ever negotiate with Hamas in order to
(inaudible) —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I’m not going to go into any more detail about the
discussions and the negotiations to get those Americans home.  If I were
to do that for you today, I might actually put at risk opportunities to
get more people out.  And I’m just not going to do that.   
  
Q    Second question, then: There’s been an uptick on the right among
some Republicans who have called for students or foreign nationals who
are demonstrating in some of these pro-Palestine demonstrations or, you
know, allegedly pro-Hamas demonstrations to have their student visas
pulled or to face deportation.  What is the administration’s remark —
response to those kinds of remarks and that kind of rhetoric?  Is that
an overreaction?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  That — I — I would just tell you — I would just tell you
that you don’t have to agree with every sentiment that is expressed in a
free country like this to — to stand by the — the idea — the First
Amendment and the idea of peaceful protest.  I’ll leave it at that.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  Go.   
  
Q    Okay, thank you.  Thank you.  
  
Q    Yeah, can you talk about the degree to which the —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    — your efforts to get the supplemental funding and work on the
crisis are complicated by the fact that we still don’t have a Speaker
after all these days?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  It would certainly be helpful to have a Speaker of the
House.  Procedurally, that’s — that’s how you get new legislation to the
— to the floor.  I’ll let our — I’ll let the House Republicans speak to
their process and what they’re — they’re doing.   
  
We know that there is significant bipartisan support for continuing the
support in Ukraine and continuing to support Israel — both chambers, by
the way.  We know there is a lot of bipartisan support there.   
  
The President is urging Congress to act as soon as possible.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  A couple more.  Go ahead, in the back.  
  
Q    Thank you, (inaudible).  Mr. John, we’ve seen that the prime
minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, in his last trip to northern Israel, is
threatening the whole — whole Lebanon if Hezbollah enters the war from
the north front.   
  
But you know very well that the Lebanese people has no — like no power
overriding Hezbollah’s decision if it wants to enter or not.  Why
(inaudible) the whole price if mili- — a militia group like Hezbollah
don’t listen to us, don’t listen to the government unless we asking a
civil war, unless we asking for the Lebanese army to interfere and stop
Hezbollah from doing so?  
  
So, why we need to pay the whole price based on Hezbollah’s action?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I didn’t understand the exact question.  What —  
  
Q    So, as — as Lebanese, not — not pro-Hezbollah, why we need to pay
the price if Hezbollah enters the war because —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Why do the Lebanese people need to pay the price?  
  
Q    Yeah.  Because Netanyahu said he’s going to bring Lebanon to the
“stone age.”  Do you think we all happy to see that happening in our
home?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Look, we know that Hezbollah does not speak for the Lebanese
people — the broad, vast majority of the people of Lebanon — we know
that — any more than Hamas doesn’t speak for the aspirations of the vast
majority of the Palestinians living in Gaza.   
  
We have said from the very beginning: We don’t want to see any actor try
to take advantage of the situation to widen or deepen the conflict, and
that certainly includes Hezbollah.  And that’s why the President has
added additional military forces to the region, and more forces will be
coming in days and weeks ahead to try to deter any actor from widening
or deepening this conflict.   
  
I understand the question.  I don’t think, at this stage, it’s helpful
to speculate about something that hasn’t happened, and hopefully will
not happen.   
  
What I can tell you is we know we have significant national security
interests in the region, and we’re going to work to protect and defend
those interests with additional military capability.  And any actor
who’s beginning to think about entering in and widening or deepening
this conflict ought to take a look at —

Q    (Inaudible.)

MR. KIRBY:  — at how seriously we’re taking our responsibilities.   
  
Q    So, adding more military and — so, can we understand what is the
job description for these two ships?  Is it only to supply military aid
for Israel or also could be possible to enter the war if — if anything
had break in that region?  Just a bit of information regarding that
matter?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Well, first of all, it’s not two ships.  It’s two carrier
strike groups.   
  
Q    (Inaudible.)  
  
MR. KIRBY:  There’s a lot of ships in a strike group; I can speak from
experience on that one.   
  
And you got the Gerald R. Ford strike group that’s in the eastern
Mediterranean.  You saw Secretary of Defense Austin announce that the
Eisenhower Strike Group, which is still crossing the Atlantic right now,
will operate for a time in the Med, and then she’s going to go on
through and into the Central Command area of responsibility, the Middle
East — the Gulf region.  
  
They are there for two purposes.  And I — I’m going to say it again, and
you’re probably sick of me saying this, but it’s true.  One is to deter
any other actor from widening, deepening this conflict.  And two is to
make sure that we are ready, poised, and able to protect and defend our
national security interests in the region writ large.  That’s what
they’re there for.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Go ahead, Jon.  
  
Q    Thanks a lot, Karine.  John, in regards to the emergency
supplemental, you’ve spoken before about the emergency need for funding
for Ukraine.  I was wondering if you can talk about what you see about
the urgency for funding Israel — why that portion of the aid that you
are requesting is so necessary right now.   
  
MR. KIRBY:  Because if we’re — if we don’t get relief, Jon, we could
potentially have a lapse in our ability to provide those kinds of
munitions to Israel.   
  
We have existing appropriations funds available to continue to support
Israel for a time — for a short time.  Again, I can’t be perfectly
specific because a lot of it depends on the pace of their operations and
what they’re going through.   
  
We also need to make sure we have appropriations to replenish DOD
stocks.  We have national security interests around the world as well
that we have to meet.  And we’ve provided an awful lot out of — out of
our inventory.  We need to be able to replenish that.  But it’s vitally
important.   
  
And then, just to put a fine point on this, I mean, the –the figure we
asked for — which is, you know, a little bit more than $14 billion — was
directly after consultations with our Israeli counterparts.  We didn’t
pull that number out of thin air.  It absolutely was a result of the
conversations that we had with the Israelis about the kinds of needs
that they have for as long as they think they might need them.  
  
Q    And then, separately, on the hostages.  A spokesperson for Hamas
has suggested that Hamas would release all of the hostages that are in
Gaza right now in exchange for a ceasefire.  Do you view that as a
credible offer?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  We got take anything that Hamas says with a huge grain of
salt.  We don’t take anything that they say at face value.   
  
Here’s an idea.  And it’s just an idea I’ll throw out there.  They could
release them all now.  Just take — just let them go now because these
people didn’t do anything wrong.  They’re just innocent civilians being
caught up in this conflict.  Let them go now.   
  
Now, I recognize that’s not going to happen, which is why we’re going to
keep working with our partners in the region to do what we can to get
them released.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Emel.  
  
Q    Thank you very much.  John, can you confirm reports that —
suggesting that Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi is planning to visit
Washington this week?  And I was wondering if you can tell — tell us the
objective of this meeting with the Chinese Foreign Minister.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  There’s been some discussions about a p- — some — some
potential meetings with — with Wang Yi maybe as soon as — as this week. 
But I think the State Department will have more to say about that later
today.   
  
Q    And also, on the Philippine incident with China, what message is
the White House sending to China about the incident yesterday that
happened between China and Philippines?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I’m sorry, between —  
  
Q    The vessel collision incident that the — with the Philippines and
China.   
  
MR. KIRBY:  What message are we sending to China?  
  
Q    I mean, what is — what is — what do you say to China about this
conflict?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Well, I see you’re calling it a conflict.  I — I’m not aware
of a collision, so I’ll have to go back to the team and get some more
information.   
  
But just broadly speaking, we’ve been very clear about the intimidating,
coercive, and, frankly, in some cases, reckless behavior by the PLA air
and maritime forces, as well as their so-called Coast Guard in terms of
bullying the navies and coast guards and fishing vessels of neighboring
states.  We’ve been very clear that’s unacceptable.  It needs to
stop.   
  
But I can’t tell you about this specific event because this is the first
I’ve heard of it.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  We’ve got to wrap it up.   
  
Go ahead, in the back.  
  
Q    John, you were talking (inaudible) to the carrier strike groups,
that there’d be more forces in the days and weeks ahead.  Can you
outline what you were talking about, what that would — might look
like?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  No.   
  
Q    All right.  (Laughter.)  
  
I want to know how that would be consistent with the President’s promise
back in 2019 that he’s getting out of the forever wars if you’re adding
more troops.  This looks like the exact opposite.   
  
MR. KIRBY:  The whole reason we’re sending that stuff over there is to
prevent any widening or deepening of this particular war.  It’s all
about deterrence.   
  
And you heard the Secretary of Defense talk.  It’s not just about naval
forces or we’re adding some air defense systems and some aircraft
squadrons to the region as well, it’s all about preventing war.  It’s
all about preventing it.   
  
Thank you.  
  
Q    Can you give us a timeline of what that might look like?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  No.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Jalil.  Just this —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Oh, yeah.  
  
Q    Thank you very much, Karine.  There is no doubt that the U.S. is
known for human rights values around the world.  Don’t you think the
U.S. has delayed this time, as far as human rights are concerned, what
is happening in Palestine since day one?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  No.  I couldn’t disagree more with you, sir.  Not at all.   
  
I mean, from — from the very beginning, early hours of this conflict, we
made clear not just to our Israeli counterparts but to the American
people and people around the world that we take the respect for innocent
life seriously.   
  
And we have been talking about the law of war since the beginning.  And
you can go back to the first statement that the President made after the
attacks of October 7th and see it right there.  It’s been a part and
parcel of every conversation that we’ve had.   
  
And we have been working hard.  We have been spearheading the efforts to
get that humanitarian assistance in.   
  
It came — those first truck convoys that Karine talked about — came
after President Biden spoke to Prime Minister Netanyahu in Tel Aviv and
then to President Sisi on the phone coming home on — on — on Air Force
One on Wednesday night to get that stuff moving.  And within a couple of
days — they had some road repairs they had to do — it started
flowing.   
  
No, sir, we have been working the issue of — of human and civil rights
and protection for innocent life since the very beginning, and that’s
not going to stop.   
  
Q    And the rallies that happened in some of those countries, which are
the allies of the United States, some of the rallies were in very huge
numbers.  Don’t you think President Biden need to play a role towards
peace instead of saying that he could handle two wars at a time?  Does
that give a good impression to fight two wars at a time instead of
working towards peaceful things?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  From the beginning of this administration, we have been
working for a more integrated, cooperative, peaceful, stable, and
prosperous Middle East.  And I’m not going to reiterate for you the list
of accomplishments, but they’re all there.  I’m happy to send you an
email with them.   
  
We have been working hard on trying to get the Middle East to be a more
stable, prosperous region.  That’s not going to change.   
  
Now, obviously, you know, these attacks on October 7th were horrific,
and the Israelis have a right and a responsibility to respond to those
attacks.  I think everybody understands that.   
  
And so, we also understand that the focus of countries in the region,
particularly Israel, is going to be on that.  It’s our — it’s our focus,
too.  But that doesn’t mean we’re going to give up.  This doesn’t mean
we’re just going to walk away from it.   
  
We still believe in the promise of a two-state solution, and we’re still
going to continue to work for that.  We still believe — as a matter of
fact, key to eventually getting a two-state solution is normalization
between Israel and Saudi Arabia.  And we’re still going to work on that
as well.   
  
Q    So, why is the President not focusing in these last couple of weeks
on his agenda that was basically for a two-nation theory?  I feel like
in the last two weeks, this war has lowered what the President was
aiming to — to bring normalization through two states, and that whole
region —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I just —  
  
Q    — it seems like has been put down —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I just told you, sir.  There was no change in our desire to
— to see a two-state solution.  There is absolutely no change in — in
our efforts to try to get normalization between Israel and Saudi Arabia
as a stepping stone to a two-state solution.   
  
But we’re — we’re not blind to reality.  Right now, Israel is fighting
to defend itself against Hamas terrorists, and we’re trying to help them
do that.  Right now, the focus of the region is on what’s going on.  And
right now, the President’s focus, appropriately, sir, is on trying to
prevent and widen and deepen this conflict to deter a larger war, so
that we can get back to the table and we can move forward on those key
diplomatic steps.  Thank you.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Thank you, Admiral.   
  
MR. KIRBY:  Yes, ma’am, thank you.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Appreciate it.  Thank you.  I try to keep John as long
as we can.  (Laughs.)  But the President is going to be starting his
event pretty soon.  If folks have any other additional questions, I’m
happy to take them go home.   
  
Go ahead, Aamer.  
  
Q    Just on the state visit, was there any thought of postponing
because of the war in the Middle East?   
  
And just more broadly, is there any concern that such a celebration
could come off as, I don’t know, a little tone deaf, considering all the
suffering both in Israel and Gaza?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, appreciate the question.  And obviously, this — we
— we’ve seen some of the- — these reportings.   
  
Look, we believe that there is no more important time than now to have
the — this state visit with our — with the — with Au- — the Australians,
and to demonstrate, of course, our strength and partnership and
alliances — right? — as we continue to have conversations with our
partners or have conversations with our allies — right? — as we are
continuing to see the invasion that continues in Ukraine, right?  So,
having these conversations with one of our allies, like Australia, is
incredibly important.   
  
And so, that’s what you’re going to see.  You’re going to see two
leaders come together, continuing to talk about the partnership that
they’re hoping to — to — to put — continue to put forward.   
  
And so, look, it doesn’t stop the work that the President has continued
to do, whether it’s these diplomatic conversations, these important
bilateral visits, or whether it’s domestic issues here — right here in
this country.   
  
And so, the President, as he has been doing, is going to continue to do
the work of the president, to do the work of the Commander-in-Chief, and
this is no different.   
  
Q    And just one more real quick.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    UAW expanded its strike today.  Is it time for Gene Sperling and
Acting Secretary Su to be on the ground in Detroit?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, as you know, they’ve been — they have been to
Detroit in the past couple of weeks.  They have been closely engaged
with UAW and the Big Three.  That — that continues.  Obviously, they’re
not part of the negotiation.  They’re offering any assistance that the
Big Three or UAW may need.   
  
Look, we — we believe — the President believes that collective
bargaining is incredibly important, for those sides to come together and
continue to have those negotiations, continue to have those
conversations.  And we are here to assist in any way.  And we have
been.  We have been doing that.   
  
But again, collective bargaining so that there is — you know, hopefully
that there is a win-win agreement.  And if it’s done, it’s in good
faith.  We have seen it in the past two years under this administration
work out in different scenarios.  And so that’s what we’re hoping that
continues.   
  
Go ahead, MJ.  
  
Q    Was the President briefed on Samantha Woll, the leader of a
synagogue in Detroit who was stabbed to death?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, obviously, our hearts go out to — to the family —
to the families there.  It’s a devastating, devastating news story.   
  
The President obviously is — is — just like everyone else is paying
close attention and saw those reports.  I don’t have anything else to
add.   
  
Obviously, the investigation continues, and we are willing to assist in
any way.  I just don’t have anything else beyond that.   
  
Q    What is his level of concern right now about the potential rise of
antisemitism in light of everything that’s going on in Israel?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, a couple of things.  Look, we have not seen any
credible threats.  I know there’s been always questions about credible
threats.  And so, just want to make sure that that’s out there.   
  
But, look, Muslim and those perceived to be Muslim have endured a
disproportionate number of hate-fueled attacks.  And certainly President
Biden understands that many of our Muslim, Arab — Arab — Arab Americans
and Palestinian American loved ones and neighbors are worried about the
hate being directed at their communities.  And that is something you
heard the President speak to in his — in his address just last — last
Thursday.   
  
And so, one of the things that the President has done is directed his
team — Homeland Security team to prioritize prevention and disruption of
any emerging threats that could harm the Jewish, the Muslim, Arab
Americans or — or any other communities.  And that is something that the
President has sought to do and — and — since day one.  
  
As you know, the President ran on — on — on, you know, bringing commu- —
protecting communities, obviously, but bringing people together, the
soul — protecting the soul of the nation.  And so that is something that
the President takes very, very seriously.   
  
And we — you know, we’re going to continue to denounce any sort of hate
towards any American here.  And so, that’s what we’re going to continue
to be steadfast on.  Again, he has — he has advised — directed his
Homeland Security team to make sure that they’re on top of this.   
  
Go ahead.   
  
Q    Are there specific deliverables you’re hoping to get out of the
Australian meeting this week or is it more of a consultation?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, we’ll have more on the agenda for the meeting.  I
certainly don’t want to get ahead of the deliverables that will come out
on Wednesday.  But certainly, we’ll have more to share.   
  
And obviously, we tend to have these background calls that NSC leads. 
And so, we’ll — we’ll have some more in-depth on the priorities and the
agenda and what we’re looking to do.   
  
Oh, I haven’t called on you.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you.  I know John Kirby addressed the protests on college
campuses, and I appreciate that the President respects First Amendment
rights to protest, but does the President view anti-Israel protests and
sentiment on college campuses as antisemitism?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I’m not going to get into what’s happening
across the country in — at different universities.  I’m not going to get
into the specifics.  
  
As the Admiral said, the First Amendment right — right? — that’s what
something — a peaceful protest is really part of — part of our
democracy, being able for folks to — to be able to express their
feelings.   
  
I’m not going to get into any, you know, specifics on that.  The
President has been very clear in wanting to make sure that Jewish
Americans, wanting to make sure that Arab Americans, Muslims are
protected here.  That is what he believes in — that we — they have the
right to live their lives and to feel protection and to feel like
they’re able to be part of a community.  The President has been very,
very clear on denouncing any type of violence.   
  
And so, as it relates to peaceful protesting, people have the right to
do that.  But we’re just not going to get into blow by blows of what’s
going on across the country.   
  
Q    Well, not —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  The President has been very clear —  
  
Q    Not to get —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — very clear —  
  
Q    — into blow by blow, but the President himself said “silence is
complicity.”  So, if there’s antisemitic letters being sent by students
or protests, sentiment at protests —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Of course — of course, the President doesn’t — is — is
against antisemitism.  Of course.  This is a president that you have
heard me say is parti- — wants to protect communities, whether it’s the
Jewish community, the Arab American pre- — community, the Palestinian
community.  This is someone who is going to speak out against
antisemitism.  Of course.   
  
But you’re asking me — you’re — you were kind of conflating the two. 
You were asking me about pro- — protests, and you were asking me about
this question.   
  
Q    I think if you talked to a lot of the protesters, you’ll hear
antisemitic —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I hear you.   
  
Q    — comments.  That they accuse —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And we’re going to always denounce —  
  
Q    — Israel of genocide.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We’re always going to denounce antisemitism.  But at
the same time, people have the right to peacefully protest.   
  
But we, in this administration, are going to always denounce
antisemitism, any form of hate — any form of hate.  Whether it’s against
the Jewish community — right? — antisemitism, against the Muslim
community, Arab American community, or the Palestin- — we are going to
denounce any form of hate that comes towards those communities.  
  
As it relates to protests — peaceful protests, people have the right to
do that.  But this is an administration, obviously, obviously, that’s
going to be very forceful and very clear about denouncing
antisemitism.   
  
Go ahead, Phil.  
  
Q    A new Harvard/Harris poll just came out which showed that a slim
majority, 51 percent, of 18- to 24-year-olds in United States think that
the violence in Israel can be justified by the grievance of
Palestinians.   
  
I know that you’ve been unequivocal in saying that the President is
going to denounce antisemitism.  And —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And he has.  
  
Q    And he has.   
  
Is there anything in particular that the administration is planning to
do to take this argument to those college students or the — those
younger generations who seem to be open to the idea that there are two
sides to this thing?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have anything to lay out on any specific
conversations or outreach that the President is going to do to
students.  
  
As you know, we have an Office of Public Engagement here.  We have other
offices here at the White House that is constantly engaging with — with
communities, incu- — including the young community.  I just don’t have
anything specifics to your question on the President’s schedule to do
that.    
  
Q    Can I follow up?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m going to see who I have not called on.  Jacqui,
I’ve called on you.   
  
Go ahead, way in the back.   
  
Q    Karine, when it comes to these different wars, Admiral Kirby made
it clear — deterrence — right?  Send these strike groups to the
Mediterranean so that no one else gets involved.  But it seems like our
deterrence in Russia did not work.  Our deterrence with North Korea
building up its stockpile didn’t work.  Now, here in the Middle East,
our deterrence hasn’t worked.  What are we doing to make our deterrence
actually have teeth?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, I would — look, in Ukraine —
specifically, as you mentioned, with Russia — remember, the first days
of that — of that war or of that invasion, Russia was supposed to take
down and — and take over Kyiv.  And it is because of what this President
was able to do to bring together more than 50 nations — our allies and
partners — and also to — to continue to — to provide the assistance that
Ukraine has been — that has now to — to fight off — right? — to fight
off what’s going on in their country that they’ve been in- — it’s been
impressive.  You’ve all have reported how impressive that the Ukrainian
people have been. 

And so, that is going to continue.  That is — continue to support to
Ukraine.  That’s why we put forth the supplemental — the supplemental
request last week to — hopefully to continue to give those security
assistance to — to Ukraine.

And, look, as we — as it relates to Israel, the Admiral spoke to that,
on what — we’re trying to make sure that Israel has what it needs to
defend itself.  And we’re going to continue. 

And let’s not forget the humanitarian aid that has to go into Gaza.  And
that is something — remember the President — and the Admiral said this. 
The President went to Israel, had the conversation with the Prime
Minister, also had conversation with President Sisi, and look what we’ve
— he’s been able to do.  We’ve seen multiple convoys go in and provide
the humanitarian aid.   
  
Look, we are going to continue — as the Commander-in-Chief, leader of
the free world, of course the President is going to make sure that we
are there for our partners and allies.  That will continue.  That will
not end.  And — and that’s what you’re seeing the President do every
day.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    I guess I just want to follow up.  I understand you’re saying that
he’s rallied the troops and brought allies together.  And that all makes
sense.  But I guess, again, the origin of my question was: Why aren’t we
doing a better job preventing these wars in the first place?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What we are doing — and Admiral spoke to this.  Of
course — as he talked about the Middle East.  And, of course, our — our
goal has always been a prosperous Middle East, a peaceful Middle East. 

He — he literally went into speaking about what the goal has been and
what we’re going to continue to do: make sure that there is peace —
right? — make sure that we — we bring our allies and partners together. 
That doesn’t stop.   
  
But at the same time — right? — if Russia is going to invade — invade
Ukraine, we have to be there for Ukraine — right? — taking over — trying
to take over their sovereignty, their democracy.  We have to be there,
right? 

If — we have to be there for Israel as they’re tr- — as they fight —
fighting off a terrorist organization, right?  Innocent people are being
killed.  And so, the President is going to be there for that.   
  
And so, look, we’re — it doesn’t stop us — deter us from what we’re
trying to do more broadly in having these diplomatic conversation. 

You saw, as I mentioned to one of your colleagues, Austr- — Australia is
coming.  We’re going to continue that conversation on how we’re going to
help Ukraine and continue to be partners and allies.   
  
But, look, we’re going to do the job that is at hand.  That’s what the
President is focused on.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you.  We haven’t — really, in this briefing, we’ve been
mainly covering foreign policy.  The President’s event that he has
coming up, which is on a domestic investment part of his agenda — does
the President see any frustration in the fact that so much of the
attention is on foreign policy that the domestic agenda is sort of less
in the news on a day-to-day basis, particularly with what’s going on in
the Middle East?  Or is it — or is that just the reality of where — of
the way the world is?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I mean, it is the reality of where we are and
what’s being reported by all of you, right?  It’s just the reality of
where we are.  
  
Look, the — but it doesn’t stop the President, like you said for today —
right? — making announcements that’s important to the American people. 
Right?  The American people want us to see them delivering — whether
it’s the economy, whether it’s healthcare — whatever issues that — that
is important to them.   
  
And so, part — the President is going to make a big announcement in a
couple of minutes that you all have reported — actually has gotten great
coverage on what he’s trying to do and will be announcing today.   
  
And, look, you know, it doesn’t stop the President from doing the job
that he has to do every day.  And you’ve seen him do that.  Whether it’s
foreign policy, whether it’s domestic issues, we try to hit that every
day.  And you hear the President talking about that every day.  
  
There are incredibly important issues that are top of mind for Americans
that the President is not going to — not going to stop talking about.   
  
And as you all know, the President has multiple things to do all at
once.  And that’s what you’re going to see him do today.  And that’s
what you’re going to see him do on Wednesday when he welcomes the
Australian Prime Minister.  And that’s what you saw him do last week
when he went to Israel, and not just that — had conversation with the
President of Egypt — right? — to make sure that things are moving
forward and making sure that we’re getting that humanitarian aid into
Gaza.  None of that stops.  None of that stops.   
  
I think I have to go.  All right.  Thanks, everybody.  We’ll see you
tomorrow.   
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  
  
Q    Will he speak to Israel at this event?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You’ll have to watch.  
  
2:16 P.M. EDT 
