---
category: press-briefings
date: '2021-08-02'
modified_time: 2021-08-02 21:06:12-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/08/02/press-briefing-by-white-house-covid-19-response-team-and-public-health-officials-47/
published_time: 2021-08-02 21:17:00-04:00
title: "Press Briefing by White\_House COVID-\u206019 Response Team and Public Health\_\
  Officials"
---
 
Via Teleconference 

4:18 P.M. EDT  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Good afternoon.  And thanks for joining us.  I’ll turn to
Dr. Walensky and Dr. Fauci in a moment.  First, I want to provide an
update on our whole-of-government response to the pandemic.   
  
We remain concerned about the continued rise in cases driven by the
Delta variant.  These cases are concentrated in communities with lower
vaccination rates.  In fact, the seven states with the lowest
vaccination rates represent just about 8.5 percent of the U.S.
population but account for more than 17 percent of cases.  And one in
three cases nationwide occurred in Florida and Texas this past week.   
  
From the start, we’ve known that this virus is unpredictable.  That’s
why we spent the last six months preparing for every scenario.  As a
result, we have the tools we need to manage this most — this.  Most
importantly — the tool that is most important is the highly effective
vaccines.  We have enough vaccines for every American who wants one. 
They’re free and they’re easily accessible — within five miles of where
90 percent of where Americans live.   
  
And in just six months, we’ve already gotten 165 million Americans fully
vaccinated — including 80 percent of seniors, who are the most
vulnerable.  
  
But we have much more work to do to put this pandemic behind us.  There
are still about 90 million eligible Americans who are unvaccinated.  And
we need them to do their part, roll up their sleeves, and get
vaccinated.  Each and every shot matters.   
  
And last week, the President laid out several areas where we’re taking
additional steps to get more Americans vaccinated.  We expanded the tax
credit to help small- and medium-sized businesses provide their
employees paid time off to get themselves and also their families
vaccinated.   
  
And we’re working with school districts and pharmacies to bring vaccines
to schools to make it as convenient as possible for students to get
vaccinated.   
  
In the past two weeks, we’ve seen a 50 percent increase in the average
number of 12- to 17-year-olds getting vaccinated each day.  That’s a
very encouraging uptick.   
  
We’re also working with states to encourage vaccinations through
incentives, which have made a difference throughout the vaccination
effort.  Last week, the President called on states and local governments
to use funding they have received, including from the American Rescue
Plan, to give $100 to anyone who gets fully vaccinated.  Minnesota and
New Mexico have already stepped up to answer the President’s call.   
  
If financial incentives like these help us get more shots in arms, we
should use them.  But in addition to incentives, it’s time to impose
some requirements based on the realities of different risks unvaccinated
individuals pose versus those who have been vaccinated.   
  
Last week, the Department of Veteran Affairs announced it will require
doctors and nurses and other healthcare workers who provide medical care
to our veterans to get vaccinated.  This is in lockstep with many
healthcare employers around the country who are requiring vaccinations
and will protect our veterans when they get medical care.  
  
At the President’s direction, the Department of Defense is looking into
how and when they will add the COVID-19 vaccination to the list of
required vaccinations for the military.  
  
And to protect the federal workforce, their loved ones, and their
communities, the President announced that every federal government
employee will be asked to attest to their vaccination status.  Any
federal employee who does not attest or is not vaccinated will be
required to mask, no matter where they work; get tested once or twice a
week; socially distance; and, generally, will not be allowed to travel
for work.   
  
We’re taking steps to apply similar standards to all federal
contractors.  It’s simple: If you want to do business with the federal
government, get your workers vaccinated.   
  
And the President has called on all employers around the country to
protect their own workforces.  And now we’re seeing positive momentum
across the private sector.  The Chamber of Commerce, the National
Association of Manufacturers, and the Business Roundtable have all
applauded the actions we’re taking.  Companies like Google, Walmart, and
Disney have announced vaccination requirements for their employees,
joining hundreds of universities and hospital systems across the country
who are implementing similar requirements.   
  
With these ongoing efforts, there’s a strong sense of progress.  And you
see it in the number of shots we’re getting into people’s arms each
day.   
  
Over the past few weeks, we’ve seen a nearly 70 percent increase in the
average number of new people getting vaccinated each and every day.  In
the last seven days alone, 3 million Americans have gotten their first
shot.  That’s the highest seven-day totals since July 4th.  
  
And just today, we hit 70 percent of adults with at least one shot,
including 90 percent of seniors with at least one shot.  These are
significant milestones in our fight against the virus.   
  
And it’s very important to note, in the states with the highest case
rates, daily vaccination rates have more than doubled.  The eight states
with highest current case rates have seen an average increase of 171
percent in the number of people newly vaccinated each day over the past
three weeks. 

Louisiana has seen a 302 percent increase in the average number of newly
vaccinated per day; Mississippi, 250 percent; Alabama, 215 percent; and
Arkansas, 206 percent. 

This increase in vaccination rates in states that have been lagging is a
positive trend.  Americans are seeing the risk and impact of being
unvaccinated and responding with action.  And that’s what it’s going to
take to get us out of this pandemic.

With that, let me turn it over to Dr. Walensky and Dr. Fauci.  Dr.
Walensky first. 

DR. WALENSKY:  Good afternoon.  Let’s begin with an overview of the
data.  As of Saturday, CDC reported the seven-day moving average of
daily new COVID-19 cases to be about 72,000 cases per day.  This
represents an increase of 44 percent from the prior seven-day average
and higher than our peak of last summer.

The seven-day average of hospital admissions is about 6,200 per day, an
increase of about 41 percent from the prior seven-day period.  And
seven-day average daily deaths have also increased to 300 per day — an
increase of more than 25 percent from the previous seven-day period. 

I want to start today by simply stating the obvious.  While we
desperately want to be done with this pandemic, COVID-19 is clearly not
done with us, and so our battle must last a little longer. 

Many of us have lost loved ones or have been ill ourselves.  All of us
have given up things in our lives that we enjoy.  This is hard, this is
heavy, but we are in this together.  And as we learn more about COVID,
we continue to rely on proven ways to protect ourselves, our children,
and our loved ones. 

I told you I would give you scientific information as I have it, when I
have it.  Here is what we have learned in the last two weeks about the
Delta variant. 

First, the Delta variant is highly contagious.  To put this in
perspective, if you get sick with the Alpha variant, you could infect
about two other unvaccinated people.  If you get sick with the Delta
variant, we estimate that you could infect about five other unvaccinated
people — more than twice as many as the original strain. 

Second, infections with the Delta variant result in higher viral loads. 
This means that those who are infected have a larger burden of virus
that they can spread to others. 

Third, those higher viral loads are seen not just in those who are
unvaccinated and infected but also, and importantly, in the small
proportion of those who are vaccinated and become infected. 

Last week, we published data on an outbreak in Barnstable County,
Massachusetts, where there were 346 confirmed cases of COVID-19 in
people who were fully vaccinated. 

During the summer, some towns in Barnstable County can have up to
240,000 visitors per month.  Those with breakthrough infections had
viral loads that were similar to people who were infected and
unvaccinated. 

This new finding, combined with data from other outbreak investigations
and surveillance studies across the country, was critical in our
decision to update our guidance for those who are fully vaccinated. 

Since those data were released, several other studies have been released
over just this past weekend that have corroborated these findings. 

Taken together, the Delta variant is different from prior strains. 

I understand this is all frustrating news, and I share this
frustration.  We continue to learn each day from emerging science and
use this evidence to update our recommendations. 

Because of what we now know about the Delta variant and infections in
those who are vaccinated, we updated our recommendations, including
recommending masks in public, indoor settings in areas with substantial
and high transmission, shown in orange and red on this map.  It is also
the reason we continue to recommend universal indoor masking in
K-through-12 schools throughout the country so our children can safely
get back to school and safely stay there.

In all of this, there is still good news.  Our vaccines are working to
prevent severe illness, hospitalizations, and death.  Vaccines are
providing protection both for individuals and communities across the
country. 

As I have said before, this remains a pandemic of the unvaccinated,
where the vast majority of spread is — in this country is among those
who are unvaccinated. 

I want to be clear: While vaccinated people can spread the virus if they
get a breakthrough infection, the odds of them getting sick in the first
place are far lower than those who are unvaccinated.  And in fact,
places with more vaccination generally have less disease. 

We can see this on a population level on this slide, where we compare
case counts and vaccination coverage by state, with vaccination coverage
on the horizontal axis and case counts on the vertical axis. 

States with the highest vaccination coverage are the dots furthest to
the right on the graph, and states with the highest case counts are the
dots closest to the top.  Notice that the states that have lower
vaccination coverage — those further to the left — have higher rates of
community transmission, as shown in red and orange.  States that have
higher vaccination coverage — further to the right — have lower rates of
cases, as shown in yellow.

There is any direct correlation with vaccine coverage and case rates. 
And I think it’s worth reiterating that public health prevention
strategies, including masks, continue to work while you’re
unvaccinated. 

In the following outbreaks of cases in Barnstable County and in
subsequent public health follow-up, we saw the power of vaccines and
masks. 

Over the month of July, there were a total of 934 confirmed cases of
COVID-19 linked to the outbreak in Barnstable County.  With 73 percent
of these infections in people who were vaccinated, there were only seven
hospitalizations and no deaths.  
  
Our vaccines did exactly what they were supposed to do: prevent severe
disease, hospitalization, and death.  
  
Furthermore, as cases increased, local public health officials
implemented a package of public health prevention strategies, including
increased testing, contact tracing, and indoor mask wearing.  And within
two weeks, test positivity fell from a peak of 15.1 percent to 4.6
percent.  Public health prevention strategies work.  
  
Let me end by reiterating three things you need to know. First, our
vaccines are working to prevent severe illness, hospitalization, and
death.  And if you are not vaccinated, please protect yourself and get
vaccinated.  
  
Second, masks will protect you and your family.  If you are in an area
of substantial or high transmission, please wear a mask in public indoor
settings, regardless of your vaccination status.  
  
And third, we need to keep our children safe and in school. Get everyone
in your family over the age of 12 vaccinated and please wear masks in
school.  
  
Finally, we stand here with you, providing science and updated guidance
in real time, to keep you and your families safe.   
  
Thank you.  I’ll now turn it over to Dr. Fauci.  
  
DR. FAUCI:  Thank you very much, Dr. Walensky.  I’d like to take up on
the theme that Dr. Walensky started with.  
  
If I could have the first slide.  
  
I’m going to be spending a couple of minutes addressing two issues that
are very much on the attention of people throughout the country and the
world.  
  
The first is, as Dr. Walensky mentioned, the real-world effectiveness of
vaccines in the context of the Delta variant, and, second, breakthrough
infections, what they mean.  And let’s discuss them a bit.  
  
Next slide.  
  
Let’s look at the real-world effectiveness against the Delta variant. 
If you look at the three components of PCR-confirmed infection, it’s 79
percent in a UK study.  Symptomatic infection is 88 percent.  
  
And just as Dr. Walensky mentioned, the vaccines are doing exactly what
we’re asking them to do when it comes to keeping you out of the
hospital, out of serious disease, and certainly preventing your death.  
  
Just a quick comment on the 79 percent: That may look a bit low, but
remember, the efficacy of the clinical trials that were published by the
trials that gave you something like 94 or 95 percent was against
clinically apparent disease.  What we’re talking about here is just
infection, so you would expect it to be a bit lower.  This has important
implications when you get into the discussion of what we call
“breakthrough infections.”  
  
Next slide.  
  
Now, if you take these data and look at them across multiple countries
but ask the question, “What does a full component of a Pfizer mRNA
provide with regard to protection against Alpha versus Delta in three
separate countries?” — the data on the left are essentially the data I
just showed you; Alpha now is in blue and Delta is in red.   
  
When you get to Canada, you see a similar protection against
hospitalization, which is the area a bit to the right in that middle
panel, compared to symptomatic disease.  When you get to Israel, you see
what we now know from reports from Israel: that you see a diminution at
around 64 percent for confirmed and symptomatic disease.  This is likely
due to the fact that Israel has started their vaccination program before
the other countries, so you’re seeing a little bit down the pipe from
the beginning.  But note, again, the 93 percent consistently showing
protection against advanced disease.  
  
Next slide.  
  
Now if you ask the question, “What about the reduced risk of either
symptomatic infection, hospitalization, or death when you compare
vaccinated individuals with unvaccinated people, what is the fold
reduction when you’re in red, with unvaccinated, versus in blue, with
full vaccinated?”  As you can see for disease itself, it’s an eight-fold
reduction.  For hospitalization, 25-fold reduction.  And for death,
25-fold reduction.  
  
Let’s move on now to breakthrough infections.  Just a couple of
comments.   
  
We can pass this slide.  Go to the next slide, please.  
  
The breakthrough infections: We have — no vaccine is 100 percent
effective, and so you can expect breakthrough infections.  So, even with
a high vaccine effectiveness, most of these infections are going to be
asymptomatic or mild.  And we know that.  We’ve already seen that from
the experience in Massachusetts, in Provincetown, and we see it in all
other situations.  
  
An important point to bring up is that the greater percentage of people
that are vaccinated, even with a high degree of protection, the absolute
number of breakthrough infections might appear high.  That’s not the
critical number. The critical number is what is the proportion of the
vaccinated people who, in fact, are getting breakthrough infections. 
And that’s the critical one.   
  
The bottom line of what we are saying is that — next slide — get
vaccinated.  I say that every single time.  We all say it.  The COVID
vaccines give strong protection against the Delta variant, and it
protects you, your family, and your community.  
  
Back to you, Jeff.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Thank you, Dr. Fauci, and thank you, Dr. Walensky.    
  
As you both stated, it’s never been more important to get vaccinated. 
That’s how we stop the spread of the Delta variant.  And each and every
shot matters.  
  
And while we work to get more people vaccinated, the federal government
is also helping states and communities respond to outbreaks.   
  
Since launching our COVID-19 surge teams, we’ve been working directly
with 10 states to support their efforts to combat rising cases with
federal assistance and support.  
  
Last week, we reiterated to all governors that we stand ready to help
them in meeting this moment, whether that be through more testing,
increasing treatments, vaccine access and uptake, or other
state-specific needs.  
  
For example, in Missouri, CDC experts are on the ground providing
epidemiology, data analysis, and other public health support.  FEMA in
Missouri is helping to expand ambulance capacity, and HHS and FEMA are
helping the state address their hospital needs.  
  
We’re working with states like North Carolina on mobile vaccination
clinics.  In Tennessee, on public health staffing. And the
administration is doing extensive outreach in states like Wyoming and
Arizona to encourage more physicians to use lifesaving monoclonal
antibody treatments — antibody treatments.  Those are really effective,
and we need to deploy them more and more where they’re needed.  
  
The bottom line is, we’re doing everything we can to help more Americans
get vaccinated and to help states fight the spread in their
communities.  
  
With that, let’s take a few questions.  
  
First question.  
  
MODERATOR:  And a reminder —  
  
DR. FAUCI:  Could I please interject something?  Jeff, I want to just
add one thing.  One of the slides was deleted — a technical difficulty
that I’d just like to spend maybe 15 seconds.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Please.  
  
DR. FAUCI:  I think it’s really important.  When we talk — it was
mistakenly deleted, and that’s the reason why I skipped by that other
slide.   
  
When you look at breakthrough infections, as I mentioned, they’re
expected and usually asymptomatic.   
  
As of July 26th, the CDC received 6,587 reports of breakthrough
infections that resulted in hospitalization or death among 163 — fully
vaccinated — million people.  That is a percentage of 0.01 percent or
less.  
  
And when you look at the breakthrough cases, the percent of breakthrough
cases in multiple locations, like D.C. and Virginia, the percent ranges
from 0.26 to 0.03.   
  
So, I’m sorry that was left out.  The bottom line is they are rare, and
they rarely result — not rarely, but unusually result in hospitalization
or death.  
  
Thanks, Jeff.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Thank you, Dr. Fauci.   
  
Okay, first question, please.  
  
MODERATOR:  Please keep your question to one question.  We’re very
limited on time.  
  
Jeff Mason, Reuters.  
  
Q    Hi, thanks very much.  Jeff, you said earlier that it was time to
do — to have requirements with relation to the vaccine, and then you
went on to list basically what you said last week about the VA and the —
and DOD.  Are there more requirements coming?  Do you think that there
should be more requirements coming?  And can you respond broadly to the
impression that you are playing down the breakthrough cases?  Thank
you.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Okay.  Well, I’ll take the — the first part of the
question, and then I’ll turn it to Dr. Fauci because he just talked
about breakthrough cases.  
  
Jeff, as you know, in the federal government, we’ve now put forward a
strong system that if you’re vaccinated, you can come back to work as
normal.  If you’re not vaccinated, there are quite strict rules that you
need to follow around testing, social distancing, and masking.  
  
The Department of Veterans Affairs, as you said, is an example of a
vaccine requirement for all of their caregivers to our veterans.  The
President has asked the Department of Defense to look into how they will
add COVID to the list of mandatory vaccinations for our armed forces —
how and when they would do that.  We will be looking, across the federal
government, in other areas that could require these types of req- —
mandates, if you will, for vaccination.  
  
At the same time, I think it’s really encouraging that we’re seeing the
private sector follow.  I mentioned Walmart, Disney, and Google all
announcing vaccine requirements, and there’s dozens of other companies
that are doing these types of actions to protect their workers as they
come back to work — universities, other health systems.  
  
So, Jeff, I think you’re going to see a continued increase in
vaccination requirements as people bring employees back to work.   
  
Second question was around breakthroughs.  Dr. Fauci.  
  
DR. FAUCI:   Yeah.  I’m sorry, what was the exact question about
breakthrough, Jeff?  I missed that.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  This is Jeff Zients.  Jeff Mason was asking: Are we
downplaying, in some way, the number of breakthrough infections that are
happening across the country?  
  
DR. FAUCI:  No, no, we’re actually not, Jeff — Jeff Mason, that is. 
(Laughs.)  I — as I mentioned in the discussion, when you look at the
numbers — the total absolute numbers when you’re dealing with a cohort
that you’re examining, that is a very high percentage of people who are
vaccinated or large numbers — by definition, even with a high degree of
efficacy, you’re going to see absolute numbers that are high.   
  
The critical issue is: What is the relative number — the percent that I
mentioned?  And that’s the reason why — I apologize — I wanted to
interject that slide that was left out: to show you the lower percentage
of people who are in that category.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Next question, please.  
  
MODERATOR:  Is Sheryl Stolberg, New York Times.  
  
Q    Hi, thanks for doing this call.  A lot of Americans remain very
confused about the recommendations.  They don’t understand why
vaccinated people need to start wearing masks again.  They’re confused
about what this means for their children in schools.  And I’m wondering
if you think your messaging has been clear enough to the public.  And
what, if anything, are you going to do to try to address the confusion
and maybe simplify things for ordinary Americans out there who don’t
follow every nuance of the science?  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Dr. Walensky?   
  
DR. WALENSKY: Yeah, thank you, Sheryl.  So maybe I’ll start with the
children and say I think our guidance is very clear about where we
should be in schools.  And that is: Everyone who is in a K-through-12
school in the fall should be masked.  Everyone across the country —
adults, children, vaccinated, or unvaccinated — everyone should be
masked.  
In terms of the question about guidance for vaccinated people wearing
masks, there are two components to what we’re trying to do here.  One,
is, we’re trying to save lives with our vaccines.  And they’re working
to do so, and that’s terrific.  What they weren’t studied in the
clinical trials is to whether they prevent transmission.  Initially,
they did with Alpha.  Unfortunately, they no longer do with Delta.  
  
The good news is that the vaccines really do work to prevent getting
sick.  However, for those people who do get sick, we are suggesting —
the data suggests that you could potentially transmit.  And for that
reason, we are suggesting both vaccinated and unvaccinated, in areas of
high disease burden — orange or red on the map — continue to wear masks
so they don’t bring the disease home or to others who are
unvaccinated.   
  
MR. ZIENTS:  I would just add that, from day one, the President said we
would lead with science and facts, and that continues to be the approach
at CDC.  And our other health experts are doing just that: leading with
science and facts.  
  
We never said that this was going to be easy, but the best thing we can
do right now is listen to the science and get more people vaccinated and
follow the CDC public health recommendations.  
  
Next question.  
  
OPERATOR:  Let’s go to Erin Billups at Spectrum.  
  
Q    Hi, thanks so much for taking my question.  I was wondering how
much of any surveillance is being done to determine the amount of
asymptomatic spread?  Experts I’ve spoken to say not enough of this is
happening.   
  
Also, to help people get a sense of how much protection previous COVID
infections offer — that’s something I’ve heard a lot of people point to
as a reason they don’t need to be vaccinated.  Is there any data on the
number of people infected with Delta who had previous COVID infections,
and whether that offered them any protection?  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Okay.  Dr. Walensky, first.  And then, Dr. Fauci.  
  
DR. WALENSKY:  Great.  Yeah.  So, we have numerous cohort studies that
are examining exactly that.  So we have several cohorts — tens of
thousands of people across the country — where some of them are actually
doing weekly PCR testing.  These are cohorts of essential workers and
healthcare workers.  So we can actually examine how much disease is
occurring in people who might be asymptomatic.  That is the best
epidemiologic way to study exactly that question.  
  
DR. FAUCI:  The —  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Dr. Fauci.   
  
DR. FAUCI:  Yeah.  With regard to the second question that if you’re
dealing with the same variant, if you get infected with an Alpha variant
or another variant, and that you recover from that, you are pretty well
protected for a reasonable period of time from reinfection.  It isn’t
perfect, but it’s — it’s good protection.  You can’t doubt that.  
  
The situation changes when you’re dealing with the evolution of a new
variant, such as the Delta variant.  And what we are seeing right now
that there are reinfections.  The protection you get from the original
infection still exists somewhat, but reinfections occur at a much
greater rate among individuals now than we did against the original
Alpha.  
  
So, bottom line is: When you’re dealing with a variant, you don’t get
the kind of protection that you would have hoped to have gotten from a
previous infection.  
  
Regarding the issue of vaccinating people: There’s no doubt when you
vaccinate someone who has had an original infection and who has
recovered, not only do you increase the depth of the protection, not
only do you increase the duration, but you also increase the breadth of
it so that you cover not only the original, but the variants.   
  
And that’s the reason why the recommendation still holds that even
though you’ve been infected previously, in the context of variants, it’s
a good idea to get vaccinated anyway.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Next question.   
  
MODERATOR:  Go to Rachel Cohrs at STAT news.  
  
Q    Hi there.  I had a question for Director Walensky about, you know,
whether the CDC is tracking COVID-19 booster shots that may be
authorized by physicians.   
  
DR. WALENSKY:  We are just — thank you for that question, Rachel — we
are just starting to gather data and get data on — and we can discern
between people who have gotten second and third shots.  We are trying
hard to encourage people to report on the safety side if people have
taken the initiative to get their third shot — again, not yet
recommended — but we have the capacity and are looking at those data
right now. 

MR. ZIENTS:  Dr. Fauci, anything to add there?  
  
DR. FAUCI:  No, nothing to add.  She said it very well.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Next question. 

MODERATOR:  Alright.  We got to do last question.  Let’s go to Zeke with
AP.  
  
Q    Thank you all for doing this.  I’m just following up on Jeff
Mason’s question earlier for you, Jeff Zients, on the additional
requirements.  It seems what you’re trying to do here is impose some
sort of cost on people who are unvaccinated as a stick there and sort of
get them to roll up their sleeve and get the shot.  So why isn’t the
federal government going further on some of these — you know, whether it
be mandating vaccination requirements for travel — across the federal
workforce, for instance.  You know, how far is the administration
willing to go to sort of, you know, turn up the pressure on the
unvaccinated to actually get shots?  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Well, Zeke, I think we’ve taken significant steps here to
make it difficult to come back to work, or more difficult to come back
to work, if you’re not vaccinated.  There’s so many reasons to get
vaccinated that we’ve talked about — to protect yourself and to protect
your loved ones.  And it’s also a really straightforward way to return
to work.   
  
So for all federal employees, the path back to work if you’re vaccinated
is straightforward.  If you’re not vaccinated or you’re not willing to
attest to being vaccinated, then you — we’re doing the right thing to
protect the workforce, to protect the individual, their family, and
their colleagues, which is rigorous testing, social distancing, and
masking.   
  
There are mandates at the VA for vaccination for their healthcare
workers — their doctors and their nurses and other healthcare providers
who take care of our veterans.  That’s consistent with a lot of health
systems across the country and a growing number of health systems that
are requiring vaccination for their healthcare workers who are on the
frontlines.   
  
As I said earlier, the Department of Defense is looking into how and
when they’ll add COVID to the list of mandatory vaccinations for
active-duty military.   
  
At the same time, we will continue to look across the federal government
at other areas where requirement- — requiring vaccines, everyone be
vaccinated may make sense, particularly in the healthcare setting.   
  
And we’re seeing it in the private sector.  More and more companies are
coming up with systems that are modeled after our system or similar to
our system, or requiring vaccinations across the board.   
  
You’re seeing it at universities.  You’re seeing it in health systems. 
So I think that this requiring of individuals to be vaccinated in order
to come back to work or to go back to school is a growing trend and
makes a lot of sense, given that we’re going to beat this pandemic by
getting more and more people vaccinated.   
  
I want to thank everybody for today.  I look forward to the next
briefing.  Thank you.   
  
4:52 P.M. EDT

To view the COVID Press Briefing slides,
visit <https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/08/COVID-Press-Briefing_2August2021_for-transcript.pdf>
