---
category: press-briefings
date: '2021-08-25'
modified_time: 2021-08-25 15:50:43-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/08/25/background-press-call-by-senior-administration-officials-on-president-bidens-official-working-visit-with-prime-minister-bennett-of-the-state-of-israel/
published_time: 2021-08-25 17:00:00-04:00
title: "Background Press Call by Senior Administration Officials on President Biden\u2019\
  s Official Working Visit with Prime Minister Bennett of the State of Israel"
---
 
Via Teleconference

(August 24, 2021)

4:05 P.M. EDT

MODERATOR:  Today’s call is on background and attributable to “a senior
administration official.”  We’ll actually have two SAOs on the line. 
Again, the contents of this call are embargoed until tomorrow,
Wednesday, August 25th, at 5:00 p.m.   
  
For your awareness, our officials are \[senior administration
officials\].  But again, for the purposes of this call, they are both
Senior Administration Official One — SAO One and SAO Two. 

With that, we’ll turn it over to SAO One for opening remarks. 

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks.  I’ll do about five minutes or
so up top here about the upcoming visit of Prime Minister Bennett. 

So, as we head into this visit to the White House, I just wanted to
frame the visit how we see the relationship with this new Israeli
government. 

So, we’re very excited about this visit.  As soon as Prime Minister
Bennett took office, we began working to find the earliest opportunity
to have the two leaders get together face-to-face. 

This will be their first meeting face-to-face.  But, of course,
President Biden called Prime Minister Bennett to congratulate him less
than two hours after Bennett was sworn into office on June 13th.  And I
think that sent a very clear signal of U.S. support for the prime
minister and for this new government, which is a truly extraordinarily
broad, big-tent coalition, which is steering Israel as we speak. 

Since then, of course, we’ve had high-level engagements on a weekly —
daily and weekly basis.  Their new national security advisor was here in
Washington earlier this month.  Secretary Blinken met the foreign
minister in Rome in June.  And we have, truly, daily engagements with
senior Israeli officials. 

The Prime Minister will also meet with Secretary Blinken \[today\] and
Secretary Austin also \[today\] before coming to the White House to see
the President on <s>Wednesday</s> \[Thursday\]. 

Again, Bennett leads one of the most diverse coalitions in Israeli
history.  We think it’s truly remarkable at a time when, as the
President often says, we’re demonstrating that democracies can deliver
for their people.  That’s something we think his government is truly
doing, and showing that people with divergent backgrounds and views can
come together to solve big problems. 

It’s a coalition that includes a diverse array of political parties. 
And we’re, of course, attuned to the complicated political dynamics in
Israel.  But that’s something that we think Bennett is navigating quite
effectively. 

Some themes — of course, it’s just — the theme is the strategic
partnership between the United States and Israel — ironclad, axiomatic,
unbreakable, any word you want to use. 

I’ll just use the — as the Prime Minister was getting on an airplane to
fly to Washington earlier \[Tuesday\], he said, quote, “Joe Biden is a
true friend of Israel.  There is a new government in Israel and a new
administration in the U.S., and I am bringing with me a new spirit of
cooperation.” 

I think we are receiving him very much in that spirit.  And, of course,
Joe Biden truly is a true friend of Israel.  It’s just part of who he
is.  And if you’re around him, talking about Israel and the
relationship, you just — you really feel that.   
  
So, it’s a chance for the Prime Minister to hear directly from the
President his ironclad commitment to Israel’s security and self-defense,
and supporting Israel’s defense needs. 

The President will also, I think, obviously discuss with Prime Minister
Bennett our commitment, not just to Israel, but to our partners in the
Middle East.  And obviously, in the backdrop of what’s going on in
Afghanistan, I think that’s quite important. 

It’s important in the context of those events because what’s happening
there — if anything, the end of America’s military involvement in
Afghanistan frees up resources and attention and ultimately allows us to
better support our partners like Israel.

I’m often asked, “Are we de-prioritizing the Middle East and our friends
in the Middle East?”  And nothing could be further from the truth.  If
anything, in the Biden administration, we are not pursuing, you know,
unachievable goals. 

We’re not trying to transform the Middle East.  We’re not trying to
overthrow regimes.  We are pursuing a very steady course, centered on
achievable aims; alignment of ends and means; and, first and foremost,
support to our partners, and, of course, Israel being second to none. 

The Prime Minister also — when he got on the plane to come over here
\[Tuesday\] — said, quote, “I’ll discuss with President Biden the leap
that Iran’s nuclear program has taken in the last two to three years and
discuss ways to counter it.” 

And that is quite true.  I think something that is going on outside the
headlines is the fact that since the last administration left the Iran
nuclear deal, Iran’s nuclear program has just dramatically broken out of
the box, and it’s accelerating from week to week.  This is a very
serious problem, and the two leaders, I think, will have the opportunity
to sit together and discuss what to do about it.  

We, of course, committed to a diplomatic path.  We think that is the
best way to put a ceiling on the program and roll back the gains that
Iran has made over recent years on the nuclear side.  But obviously, if
that doesn’t work, there are other avenues to pursue. 

And they’ll, of course, discuss <s>Israel’s</s> \[Iran’s\] destabilizing
activities in the region and particularly a very effective bilateral
program we’ve set up with the Israelis during a strategic consultation
group that we had with them a couple months ago on countering Iranian
UAVs.

The President also will discuss our commitment to Israel’s normalization
with Arab partners in the region.  We’re very pleased with the relations
between this new Israeli government led by Prime Minister Bennett and
Jordan.  King Abdullah, of course, was just here a few weeks ago and
that was a key theme of his.  And, of course, also relations between
Israel and Egypt.  And Egypt plays such a critical role in ending the
Gaza War.  And we think relations between Israel and Egypt are also very
much on the right track. 

In terms of expanding broader normalization agreements — expansion of
the Abraham Accords — we’ve done an awful lot of work behind the scenes
in building upon the breakthroughs of UAE, Bahrain, Morocco.  And we’ll
be discussing that with the Israeli delegation this week. 

But also behind the scenes, there’s an awful lot of work going on to
expand those arrangements to other countries, so that will also be
something that will be a topic of discussion.

Issues of the Palestinians coming out of the Gaza conflict, of course,
in which President Biden was so hands-on in working to end that over 11
days.  It had all the potential to go on much longer.  I think we look
forward to a very constructive discussion with Prime Minister Bennett
and his delegation on that whole set of issues. 

Separately, we delivered 500,000 vaccines to Palestinians \[Tuesday\],
something that I know is being discussed by other colleagues of mine
here at the White House. 

So, we’ve had very constructive discussions with this new government on
the set of issues regarding Israel-Palestinian peace.  President Biden
believes a negotiated two-state solution is ultimately the only way to
ensure Israel’s future <s>of the</s> \[as a\] democratic and Jewish
state.  That’s been his consistent position throughout his career. 

And, of course, we recognize the reality that resumption of talks and
negotiations is not likely in the near term for a variety of reasons. 
But there are a number of steps that can be taken to kind of dampen the
risks of further sparks to conflict, which is something that we have
seen Prime Minister Bennett and his government very much committed to. 

So, in close, we’re confident other issues will be discussed: COVID-19
pandemic; Israel is also pursuing a third booster shot for its
population.  The Prime Minister has discussed that with Dr. Fauci and
others from our team.  And a whole host of other issues. 

But with that, given the time that \[MODERATOR\] mentioned, I think I’ll
turn it over back to \[MODERATOR\] for questions. 

MODERATOR:  All right.  Thank you very much.  And we can go ahead and
open it up for questions, please. 

Q    Yes, thank you very much.  Can you all hear me okay? 

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yes, can hear you fine. 

Q    Okay, great.  So I wonder, coming out of this meeting, do you have
any expectations of any major tangible announcements of any sort? 
Specifically, I mean, can we — to what extent, if any, are we going to
hear about plans for firming up the reopening of the Jerusalem Consulate
that served the Palestinians until Trump closed it?  And this was
something Secretary Blinken announced, of course, during his visit
there.  And how do you overcome Israeli resistance to that?  Any
specific ask being made to Prime Minister Bennett?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, so I’ll probably disappoint you;
I’m not going to talk about any specific deliverables two days before
the visit.  But I think this is very much a visit — it’s a new
government, and it’s very much at the importance of the two leaders
sitting face-to-face.

Again, President Biden has not met Prime Minister Bennett, so for them
to sit face-to-face and really get to know each other — I’ve been
through a few of these visits now.  We had the Iraqi Prime Minister in
town a month ago, and they ended up spending an hour together alone in
the Oval Office, one-on-one. 

I know very similar, of course, when King Abdullah was here, who the
President knows quite well. 

So, I think it’s an important visit in terms of the relationship,
symbolic of our firm commitment to Israel as an ally. 

There is a host of detailed issues that are on the agenda that we’ll be
discussing in some depth, but I’ll probably — I’ll probably leave some
of that for Thursday.

Q    Thanks for taking my question.  Where does the administration stand
on issuing a waiver for Egypt to provide $300 million in military
assistance?  Do you think that this waiver is in Israel’s security
interest?  Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Well — and I’ll also let “senior
official number two” weigh in as well.  I think we’re discussing here
that the visit of Prime Minister Bennett — issues like that are across
our agenda on MENA.  There’s — that’s one of many that we’re — that
we’re discussing.

We think the relationship between Israel and Egypt is absolutely
fundamental.  And the ongoing discussions between those two governments
that have been going on and that we’ve been deeply involved in before
the Gaza crisis, during the Gaza crisis, and after the Gaza crisis, I
think have been quite critical.

And “senior official number two” has been involved in many of those
discussions, as was Tony Blinken on the trip to Israel after the Gaza
crisis.  So, let me turn it over to her.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, I would just say on your specific
question, of course, it’s, you know — it’s an issue of deliberation for
the administration, so I really can’t say anything.

But to the broader issue of how Israel is looking at Egypt, I couldn’t
agree more with what \[senior administration official\] just said. 
There’s a real discernible energy to the relationship and a very steady
back-and-forth of senior officials working on the — on the Gaza piece,
which takes an extraordinary amount of effort from Egypt to both manage
the post-conflict situation and then to provide, you know, other
thinking on the Palestinian issue set.

So, there’s no question that the Prime Minister and his team view Egypt
as a critical security partner, but not just a security partner, a
critical, diplomatic partner as well.

Q    Thanks for taking my question.  I wanted to ask if there are any
plans to raise — there were reports recently of Israel potentially
withdrawing from the Shebaa Farms in southern Lebanon.

And also, will there be any discussions on the stalled maritime border
talks for dispute between Lebanon and Israel? Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I think, of the latter, that is
something that U.S. diplomats have been involved in for some time.  Of
course, the situation in Lebanon and the formation of a new Lebanese
government, in addition to the crisis that Lebanon is going through, has
made that difficult for the time being, but we’re hopeful that a new
Lebanese government can be formed and that we can pick that up again
because it’s very important to us.

And, again, on the kind of other issues which you mentioned, I think I’m
just not going to get into them on the call. 

But \[senior administration official\], anything else?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, I would just say that, I mean,
we’ll be ready to brief the Prime Minister and his team on, sort of, our
approach on that maritime issue. 

And, again, there is a discussion to be had just in terms of our mutual
concerns — security concerns about what’s going on in Lebanon.  Of
course, the Israelis are quite concerned in terms of the
precision-guided missile technology transfer piece to Hezbollah.  And
we’re quite concerned about that, but also concerned about the real
potential for state collapse if the Israeli — if the Lebanese political
elites do not get their act together, essentially, and form a new
government.

Q    Hello.  So my question is about Iran.  The White House keeps on
saying that reentering JCPOA serves the national interests of the United
States, so do you think what the Biden administration is offering is in
the national interest of the Israelis to prevent them from taking
unilateral action against the Islamic Republic?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Well, I think, you know, we’ll have a
good discussion, as we’ve been having, with the Israelis and all of our
partners in the Middle East about the facts of the situation. 

And if you look at any data point of Iran’s nuclear program — from
breakout, which is now down to just a few months; to number of
centrifuges and advanced centrifuges; to stockpiles; to enrichment to 20
percent and now 60 percent; to experimentation with uranium metal — I
could go on and on and on — this is a very alarming picture.  And none
of these things were happening when the JCPOA was in place.

So, the question is, what do you do about it?  And we inherited a
maximum pressure policy, which we don’t think is achieving any
particular results.  And, in fact, it’s going the opposite direction.

At the same time, we have not lifted any sanctions, and we have not done
anything because we’ve been very clear that sanctions relief will come
through Vienna.  So, obviously, Iran has a new president, forming a new
cabinet, and we’ll see if we’re back at the table in Vienna, in short
order, and see how things go.

But this will obviously be a very rich and, I think, detailed
conversation with the Israeli side, because our policy towards Iran is
not all focused on the Vienna track.  There’s a — it’s a multifaceted,
multidimensional policy of pressure diplomacy and a number of other
tools and deterrence. 

So, I think we’ll have discussions at the Pentagon, here at the White
House, and the State Department about the Iran — the complexity of the
Iran problem, but also the reality of the challenge we face and how best
to confront it.

So, I can’t speak for Israel’s views.  I think the Prime Minister spoke
to them as he got on the plane about the constructive nature of — and
the spirit of cooperation of which he is arriving, and we’re approaching
this and all issues in the same vein.

Q    Thank you.  Thank you so much for this talk.  Will you discuss
additional emergency military aid for Israel?  And would you consider
Iran to be the core issue of the meetings and of the visit?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Well, we have a — obviously, our
defense relationship is so — so deep and multifaceted.  And the Pentagon
are having meetings even today with Israeli officials about our support
for Israeli Defense Forces and our commitment to help replenish the Iron
Dome coming out of the Gaza conflict.  That’s a commitment that stands,
and it’s being worked through the Congress.  So, I think all of that
will be discussed.

Look, Iran will be a big topic of discussion because Iran is a threat to
Israel, and we are 100 percent committed to the security of Israel — no
ifs, ands, or buts.  And we know this will be a key topic, which, of
course, will be discussed in tremendous depth.

But it’s not the only topic.  We’re discussing diplomatic opportunities
in the region.  I laid out some of the agenda –normalization — not all
of which I can get into, but that’s a big agenda which is being
pursued. 

And we think some other opportunities, particularly with the spirit of
which this new government has approached so many of the problems in the
region — again, the cooperation between Jordan and Israel, the direct
communication between the heads of state; the cooperation with Egypt
coming out of the Gaza conflict; Qatar has — came to an arrangement with
the U.N. to restore some of the funding into Qatar, which is still being
worked.

But there’s a lot of progress on the diplomatic front that we are very
actively pursuing and facilitating as best we can behind the scenes. 

But it’s all being led by Prime Minister Bennett and his team, and
Foreign Minister Lapid and his entire cabinet.  And our cooperation with
this cabinet, I think, could not be more multifaceted and constructive. 

So, this face-to-face between the two — between the two leaders, we
think, comes at a good time, comes after a lot of work between our two
teams. 

And again, we’re very much looking forward to the visit, and we’re very
pleased to have the Prime Minister here in Washington.

MODERATOR:  And with that, ladies and gentlemen, this concludes our
call.  As a reminder, the call is on background and attributable to
“senior administration officials.”  The contents of this call are
embargoed until tomorrow, Wednesday, August 25th at 5:00 p.m.

Again, thank you for joining.

4:24 P.M. EDT
