---
category: press-briefings
date: '2021-08-25'
modified_time: 2021-08-25 00:30:19-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/08/25/background-press-call-by-senior-administration-officials-on-the-presidents-upcoming-cybersecurity-meeting/
published_time: 2021-08-25 05:00:00-04:00
title: "Background Press Call by Senior Administration Officials on the President\u2019\
  s Upcoming Cybersecurity\_Meeting"
---
 
Via Teleconference

(August 24, 2021)

3:02 P.M. EDT

MODERATOR:  Hey, everyone.  This is \[senior administration official\]. 
So, just — thank you all for joining us today.   
  
As you all remember, last month, we announced that the President was
going to host a meeting with private sector leaders on August 25th,
which is tomorrow.

On the phone I have \[senior administration official\].  This
information is just for your awareness, not for reporting.  This call is
on background, attributable to “a senior administration official.”  And
the contents of this call will be embargoed until tomorrow, 5:00 a.m.
Eastern, August 25th.  If you’re joining this call, you’re agreeing to
the terms of the embargo. 

With that, I’ll turn it over to \[senior administration official.\]

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thank you so much.  Hi, everyone.  Good
afternoon and thank you for joining us.  As you all remember in July,
the White House announced the President would be hosting private sector
leaders at the White House tomorrow to discuss how we can collectively
improve the nation’s cybersecurity. 

So I wanted to give you a brief rundown of the day.  \[Senior
administration official\] will follow up right after the call, she said,
with more detailed logistics and the names of participants.  I’m also
happy to answer any questions you have at the end of the call.    
  
So, the Biden administration has prioritized cybersecurity since day
one. 

First, the May 2021 executive order, which has really dramatically reset
the game on cybersecurity and both from a federal cybersecurity
approach, from a security of software that we all use approach; the
Industrial Control System Cybersecurity Initiative, which has already
improved the cybersecurity of electric utilities serving more than 90
million Americans; and the National Security Memorandum that the
President released in July to improve critical infrastructure
cybersecurity. 

You know, as you know, that’s just domestic.  There’s a lot of other
international work — international work with partners, NATO, G7, et
cetera, that we’ve done. 

However, the federal government can’t drive (inaudible) our own, and in
many cases, the private sector is better positioned for reasons of
authority or influence.  So, the meeting tomorrow reflects the
President’s commitment to public-private partnership and won’t be his
last engagement with the private sector on cybersecurity.  He’s very
much committed to this. 

Both the U.S. public- and private-sector entities increasingly face
sophisticated malicious cyber activity.  These incidents affect
businesses small and large, small towns and cities in every corner of
the country, and can hit the pocketbooks of middle-class families. 

In \[engagements\] \[Redacted.\] with attorney generals, sessions with
mayors, \[we\] heard loud and clear the issues they’re seeing both in
their cities, in their states, but also, they’re hearing from small- and
medium-sized businesses. 

So, even as we face this growing threat, the skilled cybersecurity
workforce we need to meet the challenge hasn’t kept pace.  There are
approximately 500,000 cybersecurity jobs which are unfilled today. 

So, the President recognizes that the escalating cyber threats we face
require a whole-of-nation effort, and this meeting will highlight the
scope of the challenge we face, but also the opportunities.  So, it’s
really a call to action. 

Tomorrow, the President will meet with leaders from a range of sectors
and companies with the power to immediately act to improve our nation’s
cybersecurity, specifically from tech, insurance, education, and
critical infrastructure. 

From tech, the companies participating will be Google, Amazon, Apple,
Microsoft, IBM, and ADP.  You’ll note that we particularly included ADP
because of the services they provide to thousands and thousands of
small- and medium-sized companies.

From financial: JPMorgan Chase, Bank of America, TIAA, and U.S. Bancorp.

From insurance: Coalition, Vantage Group, Resilience, and Travelers.

From education, a creative set: Code.org, University of Texas System,
Tougaloo College, Girls Who Code, and Whatcom Community College.

So, after the meeting with the President, participants will also join
smaller meetings with various members of the President’s Cabinet and
national security team for a more informal discussion on concrete steps
we can take to improve national cyber posture. 

Those discussions will occur in three parallel breakout sessions,
specifically:

-   “Critical Infrastructure Resilience,” which will be co-chaired by
    Secretary Mayorkas and Secretary Granholm, with participants across
    energy, financial, and water
-   “Building Enduring Cybersecurity,” which is chaired by Secretary
    Raimondo and the Small Business Administrator Guzman — participants:
    tech and insurance.  We really see insurance as a way to drive
    better cybersecurity practices. 
-   And then the “Cybersecurity Workforce,” chaired by the National
    Cyber Director.  Participants are education leaders.

Following those sessions, the National Cyber Director and I will bring
back groups to get a readout of what was discussed and summarize that
and provide that to the President. 

Before taking your questions, I want to emphasize that tomorrow is a
call to action.  The federal government can’t solve this complex,
growing international challenge alone, and we can’t do it overnight. 

For those of you who know me know that we’re sincere when we say that
cybersecurity is a matter of national security, the public and private
sectors must meet this moment together, and the American people are
counting on us. 

So, tomorrow is really an important opportunity to drive that forward. 
And with that, I will take your questions. 

Q    Hey there.  Thank you for taking my question and thanks for doing
this backgrounder.  I guess my big question is, what exactly you expect
to come out of this.  Do you have a list of sort of — you know, a wish
list that you would like to see the executives you’ve invited agree to? 
Is there some kind of framework that you want them to agree to observe
in the cases of breaches?  You know, what exactly will be the outcome of
this meeting?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So, clearly, you know, as you can
imagine, this meeting is a sum-up of a lot of work in the last few
weeks, working with participants to discuss initiatives.  And there will
be a set of announcements that will be made tomorrow across the key
areas — significantly on technology and talent — made by the
participants, both government and private sector.  So that’s the first
part.  Right?

And then, in addition, gathering this kind of group together to discuss
the issues will also be an opportunity for new ideas and new
discussion.  And that’s the — what we plan to take out of those
deep-dive sessions.  So we have both. 

And thanks for the question, Andrea. 

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Hi, Dustin.

Q    Hi, \[senior administration official\], good to hear from you
again.  Thank you for doing this. 

Can you just talked a little bit about how much of a dominant theme you
expect ransomware to be during tomorrow’s discussions?  Is that sort of
a key focus still?

And then, can you also provide us an update — or is there any update to
provide on the ongoing conversations between the administration and the
representatives from Russia, concerning ransomware criminal activity
within their borders?  Thanks.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Got it.  So, ransomware is clearly one
key focus, but we really wanted to take a focus on the enduring — on,
really, the root causes of any kind of malicious cyber activity.  One,
the need to really improve the security in tech, frankly.  And then the
need to really improve the, you know, putting in place good operational
practices.  So, if you saw, you know, we kind of are pushing out those
aggressively for the federal government. 

So that’s, you know — the second aspect is not having enough people. 
The focus of 500,000 open jobs. 

And the final one is just a broad set of vulnerabilities across critical
infrastructure.  So, we really wanted to make it a discussion of root
causes. 

Clearly, you know, all of those causes are some of the reasons that
ransomware attacks are successful.  Right?  So ransomware will be a part
of the discussion, but we really wanted to take a broader look at
various kinds of malicious cyber activity and what we can practically do
about it. 

And on the second one, you know, clearly that continues to be an area of
discussion.  As you know, the President established the experts group,
and we continue to meet and make progress in that forum. 

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Hi, Tim.

Q    Hi.  Thanks, \[senior administration official\].  Hi there.  What’s
your sense of what needs to happen to get the private sector to embrace
the approaches that involve asking more of them?  We’ve seen some
resistance to pipeline regulation ideas and to the terms of incident
response notification laws.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I really love the question, because as
you noted, the administration has really taken a whole set of
combination of approaches along the spectrum of asking to mandating. 
Right? 

So, in the EO, we mandated certain things to say, “If you want to do
business with the federal government, you’ve got to have — you know,
you’ve got to build software — critical software to these practices.” 
And the TSA second directive mandated certain security requirements for
pipelines. 

While on the asking side, we had the ICS initiative — which I mentioned,
you know, serving now 90 million Americans — where companies stepped up
and rolled out the cybersecurity technologies we recommended for them. 

So, I think here what we’re working to really do is pick carefully the
sectors and the leaders who we say, “We need you.  The critical services
of this country need you.”  We need to transition to where technology is
built securely by default.  We’ve baked in by design.  You know, we
don’t buy a car and then buy the airbag separately.  And it’s — you
know, with tech, we need to know we’re buying secure tech. 

And then similarly — right? — insurance motivates us to do good
practices, you know, whether it’s safe driving, \[Redacted.\], or a
smoke detector in our homes.  And we’re trying to brainstorm and say,
“Can insurance motivate companies, you know, to do what they need to do,
in terms of cyber hygiene.” 

So we try to carefully not only ask, but also bring real thought to what
are the particular asks and how does this create the ecosystem that
moves — that has the right incentives to move things forward.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Hi, Eric.

Q    Hi, \[senior administration official\].  The seatbelt thing is
actually — and the airbags thing is actually a great segue to my
question, which is about mandates and laws — because obviously those are
safety features that a lot of states do require. 

In these conversations, will the administration be encouraging companies
to support a cyber incident reporting mandate, which we’ve seen Congress
consider?  It seems to be the thing that has the most momentum of any
kind of regulation right now.  Will you be encouraging them to embrace
that kind of mandate?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So, I think you saw in the executive
order, we require that any companies, you know, doing business with the
federal government share incidents that occur.  Beyond that, as I
mentioned in the — you know, to Dustin’s question on ransomware, we’re
taking just a broader approach to root causes in this discussion and how
to really drive more secure tech, drive companies to put in place better
practices, ensure we have the talent needed.  Those are the focuses of
this discussion. 

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Hi, Brian. 

Q    Hi, \[senior administration official\].  Thanks for doing the
call.  I’m wondering if you could sort of characterize what commitments
the White House may have asked the participants to come to the table
with tomorrow.  Or is this more of a general conversation to explore
possible solutions?  In other words, are there specific commitments and
deliverables that the companies will be, you know, providing the
administration, saying we’re prepared to take these steps today?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Absolutely.  So, there are specific
commitments.  And I think this was an opportunity to have some, you
know, focused discussions around — I think you’ve heard me say many
times in the preceding months: We need to bake security in by design
into tech, otherwise we’re pushing the cost of maintaining security to
the users. 

You’re pushing it on small companies who’ve got a patch; you’re pushing
it on, you know, older or less educated — or less technically
comfortable people on how to be safe online.  We’ve got to have more
secure tech. 

So that was one set of conversations.

You know, we’ve been talking with critical infrastructure, as you know,
for quite some time around, “Look, folks, don’t be the next Colonial,”
right?  Put in place the visibility you need, particularly on your
operational technology networks. 

So we’ve been having some very focused discussions on those initiatives,
and the announcements will relate to those.

But then, as I mentioned earlier, we also just want to have discussions,
right?  Bring folks in, hear their ideas.  The President wants to hear
their ideas.  So that — there’s that opportunity as well.

Q    Hi, thanks for taking the question.  I think you may have covered
it with a response to Brian.  But just in terms of commitments, are you
expecting any kind of financial commitments to be announced tomorrow,
whether — you know, from the companies or from the government in terms
of how much is going to be spent on these initiatives? 

And then also, in terms of partnerships with some of the companies — I
mean, are we expecting to hear anything about how exactly companies
like, say, for example, Microsoft, might work to improve the security of
local governments who have been particularly hit by ransomware, given
that it’s often traced back to old versions of software, hardware, et
cetera?  I mean, will we see any sort of concrete steps in that
direction?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  You definitely will see concrete steps,
but I think there needs to be an element of surprise, folks, when we
roll that out.  So just to say it’s definitely a set of concrete steps. 
I’m really — you know, I was really happy to see the commitments folks
were making in terms of they are being concrete.

And I think this meeting coming on the heels of — I think it was Dustin
who asked me — just a series of, you know, cyberattacks that occurred. 
And I think the increasing recognition that, you know, each of the
things we just talked about need to happen has really, I think, created
a sense of urgency. 

So, that — you will definitely be seeing a set of concrete announcements
also by government, not just by private sector folks.  You know, we need
both to be successful.

Q    Hi, thanks so much for doing this.  Two, essentially, follow-ups. 
One, I know you’re wary of revealing even more about the announcements,
but you mentioned that some of them will be around the workforce.  Can
you tell us anything more about sort of the broad categories of those?

And then, second, to follow up on what I think Tim was asking: The last
time we talked, when the memorandum came out, the White House was
focusing on the asking side of the spectrum rather than the mandating
side of the spectrum.  To what extent is that sort of still alive
debating, whether Congress would give you that authority?  Are you still
looking for that authority from Congress, and are you talking with
companies about what might happen in a “mandate-y” way if you don’t get
what you’re getting in an “ask-y” way?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So, on the first question, I find the
talent aspect exciting because, as you can see — you know, as I
mentioned the education elements we invited, we didn’t just go to
traditional four-year colleges or even traditional — or even community
colleges, right?  We went to a broader set of entities to really think
creatively.

I mean, to be frank, what makes me so excited about cyber education is
the opportunity it offers to Americans of all backgrounds, you know, to
— you know, you can get a certification, and you can be tremendously
successful in a cyber career and just build those certifications, build
(inaudible) skills.  You can do a four-year degree.  But people have
those options.

So I think that’s what’s super exciting, and we really, you know, worked
on that in some of the announcements that are coming out.

And on your second question, I think if I — I think if I understood the
question — sorry, it’s been a long day — the National Security
Memorandum that the President rolled out recently, you know, essentially
it played that out.  It said these are the voluntary cybersecurity goals
that outline our expectations for owners and operators of critical
infrastructure. 

And then we want to work with the private sector and Congress to ensure
these standards are adopted across the board.  In other words, “Heads
up.  This is what we think is reasonable as a threshold of — since
you’re an owner and operator of critical infrastructure.”  We’re going
to work to make sure that these standards are adopted across the board
because, you know, we — we, as the government, owe that to the citizens
we serve.

But we’d love for you to get a head start and get moving.  You know, by
the way, you’ll have a voice in the way we run the process for
establishing the performance controls, much as (inaudible) did with
establishing the standards for critical software coming out of the
executive order. 

We literally had, I think, over a thousand people participating in those
workshops to get the input.  So it wasn’t government going into a room
and locking the door; it was, “No, let’s work with the private sector to
set good thresholds for what this needs to be so that we know it’s
achievable, reasonable, and effective.”

MODERATOR:  Thanks, everyone, for joining.  Just as a reminder, this
call was on background, attributable to a “senior administration
official,” and the contents of this call are embargoed until tomorrow,
5:00 a.m. Eastern, Wednesday, August 25th. 

If you did not get a chance to ask your question, please reach out to me
via e-mail and we’ll make sure to get you a response back.

Thanks, everyone, and have a good day.

3:22 P.M. EDT
