---
category: press-briefings
date: '2021-08-24'
modified_time: 2021-08-24 17:26:12-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/08/24/press-briefing-by-white-house-covid-19-response-team-and-public-health-officials-51/
published_time: 2021-08-24 17:26:11-04:00
title: "Press Briefing by White House COVID- \u2060 19 Response Team and Public Health\
  \ Officials"
---
 
Via Teleconference

1:46 P.M. EDT  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  (Inaudible) — and thank you for joining us.  I’ll turn to
Doctors Walensky, Fauci, and Murthy after I provide a brief update.  
  
We have made remarkable progress on vaccinations in just seven months,
with more than 200 million Americans now with at least their first shot
and 171 million Americans fully vaccinated.  
  
But we can’t and we won’t let up.  We’re now in a pandemic of the
unvaccinated, and the way to end this pandemic is more vaccinations. 
More vaccinations — that’s exactly what we’re getting done.  
  
Nationwide, we’ve gotten a total of 6 million shots in arms in the last
seven days.  That’s the highest seven-day total in over a month and a
half.  
  
And at the end of last week, for three straight days, we got more than 1
million shots in arms each day.  That’s the first time that’s happened
since June.  
  
Importantly, we’ve dramatically increased the number of people getting
their first shots each day.  
  
Back in mid-July, we were averaging 260,000 first shots in arms per
day.  Today, we’re getting 450,000 first shots a day — more than a 70
percent increase.  And we’re seeing the greatest increases in states
that had been lagging on vaccinations.  
  
In Alabama, Arkansas, Louisiana, and Mississippi, more people got their
first shots in the past month than in the prior two months combined. 
This is critical progress.  
  
In the face of the Delta variant, more and more Americans are stepping
up each day to get vaccinated.   
  
We’re working to encourage more vaccination, including through
vaccination requirements.  Over the past several weeks, we’ve adopted
vaccination requirements for federal workers, the armed forces, and
healthcare personnel at both the Department of Veterans Affairs and the
Department of Health and Human Services.  
  
And just last week, the President announced that nursing homes serving
residents covered by Medicare and Medicaid will be required to have
vaccinated staff.  
  
Yesterday, after a thorough, independent, and rigorous scientific review
process, the FDA gave full and final approval to the Pfizer vaccine,
reaffirming its findings that the vaccine is safe and effective.  
  
As Dr. Murthy will discuss, this is a key milestone that will help get
more shots in arms.  
  
We know that there are Americans who have been waiting for the FDA
process to be completed before getting a shot.  For those Americans, the
wait is over.  Now is the time to join the more than 200 million
Americans who have already rolled up their sleeve and gotten
vaccinated.  
  
It’s free, it’s easy, and it’s never been more important to protect
yourself, your loved ones, and your community.  
  
It’s not just individuals; institutions must step up too, and many
are.  
  
In just the past 24 hours, CVS, Chevron, Texas Instruments, Ochsner —
that’s a health system that’s one of the largest employers in Louisiana
— all of them have stepped up to cover their workers.  
  
New Jersey and New York City have stepped up to cover teachers and
school staff.  And the University of Minnesota, Centre College, and
State University of New York have stepped up to cover students.  We
expect more and more to follow.  
  
If you’re a business, a non-profit, a state or local leader who’s been
waiting for full and final FDA approval before you put vaccination
requirements in place, now is the time.  
  
You have the power to protect your communities and help end the pandemic
through vaccination requirements.  
  
Let me be very clear: Our wartime response will continue to deploy every
tool at our disposal to get more people vaccinated.  
  
Just today, HHS announced that it’s changing its reimbursement policies
so pharmacies and other vaccination providers have additional support
and incentives to administer vaccines in smaller long-term care
settings.  This will help ensure long-term care residents have greater
access to COVID-19 vaccines.  
  
At the same time that we drive more progress on vaccinations, our
COVID-19 Surge Response Teams continue to work with states to respond to
Delta outbreaks.  
  
We are working with 17 states and have deployed over 700 federal
personnel; surged hundreds of ventilators, ambulances and other critical
assets to support hospital systems; and established dozens of free
testing sites.  
  
Importantly, since July 1st, we have shipped over half a million
lifesaving therapeutics to treat COVID patients — half a million
therapeutics that are preventing hospitalizations and saving lives.  
  
We continue to accelerate the use of these treatments.  In fact, in just
the first two weeks of August, we shipped more than 10 times the amount
of treatments we shipped to states in the entire month of June.  
  
We are acting aggressively to stay ahead of the virus and are planning
for booster shots starting the week of September 20th, pending FDA and
ACIP approval.  
  
We expect the rule will be simple: Get your booster shot eight months
after you’ve got your second shot.  
  
We’re working closely with states, pharmacies, and others who will get
the job done at the local level.  
  
Earlier today, we convened two meetings — one with governors and their
teams and one with pharmacy CEOs — to discuss their operational planning
so they’re ready to hit the ground running.  
  
Our message is clear: We will mobilize the unprecedented level of
federal support we have provided states, pharmacies, and other partners
since the President took office, and help in any way that we can to get
booster shots in arms.  
  
I’ll end with this: The President’s whole-of-government effort continues
full speed ahead across all fronts to defeat this virus.  
  
And as we have said from the start, we need everyone — governors,
leaders of educational and healthcare institutions, employers, small and
large businesses, and all Americans — to do their part to defeat this
virus.  
  
With that, let me turn it over to Dr. Walensky.  
  
DR. WALENSKY:  Good afternoon.  Let’s begin with an overview of the
data.  Last Friday, CDC reported 157,000 new cases of COVID-19.  Our
seven-day average is about 137,000 cases per day.  This represents an
increase of nearly 12 percent from the prior seven-day average.  
  
The seven-day average of hospital admissions is about 11,000 per day,
similar to the previous seven-day period.  And the seven-day average of
daily deaths have also increased to 739 per day, an increase of 23
percent from the previous seven-day period.  
  
As cases, hospitalizations, and deaths continue to rise, I want to
reemphasize the serious risk of COVID, especially to the unvaccinated,
and the importance of vaccines to prevent severe illness and save
lives.  
  
This slide shows data on hospitalizations among the vaccinated and
unvaccinated reported to CDC’s COVID-NET.  This is a nationally
representative sample of hospitals that covers approximately 10 percent
of the U.S. population.   
  
Based on these data from January through July, represented on the
horizontal axis, COVID-19-associated hospitalization rates were 17 times
higher in unvaccinated, shown by the blue line compared to vaccinated
adults, shown by the green line.  These data have been submitted to a
preprint server and anticipate they will be posted online in the next
few days.  
  
Additionally, today, in CDC’s MMWR, we published a report examining data
from Los Angeles County between May and July, which found that people
who were unvaccinated were nearly five times more likely to be infected
and about 29 times more likely to be hospitalized with COVID compared
with people who are vaccinated.  
  
These data remind us that if you are not yet vaccinated, you are among
those highest at risk.  The Delta variant of SARS-CoV-2 virus is highly
transmissible, represents over 98 percent of COVID cases here in the
United States, and is driving up infections, hospitalizations, and
deaths across the country.  
  
Please, do not underestimate the risk of serious consequences of this
virus.  
  
Vaccines are the best tool we have to take charge of this pandemic.  We
continue to see more and more data on the safety and effectiveness of
the vaccines authorized in the United States, and now we have full FDA
approval for one vaccine and extraordinary safety and effectiveness data
for the others.  
  
If you are unvaccinated and ready to revisit your decision to get
vaccinated, or if you still have questions, talk to your physician or a
trusted source to get the information you need to get vaccinated.   
  
Thank you.  I’ll now turn things over to Dr. Fauci.  
  
DR. FAUCI:  Thank you very much, Dr. Walensky.  I’d like to spend the
next couple of minutes in addressing a much-underutilized intervention
for COVID-19, and that is the use of monoclonal antibodies for the
treatment and prevention of SARS-CoV-2 infection and COVID-19
disease.   
  
Next slide.   
  
For those not totally familiar with this, monoclonal antibody is an
antibody that’s produced by a single clone of B cells or a cell line,
and consists of identical antibody molecules that can actually be
produced in the in-vitro situation in unlimited quantities.   
  
Next slide.   
  
If you look at the virion on the upper-left part of the slide and you
look up the blown-up spike protein — the red molecule on the right upper
panel — when you talk about polyclonal antibodies, which result from
infection or vaccination, it’s a group of antibodies against every
aspect of the spike protein, which is the good news.  However, the
concentration and the affinity of those antibodies can be markedly
improved if you get a single cloned antibody — hence the word
“monoclonal” — that’s against the very specific part of the spike
protein that can have a major effect in prevention and treatment.   
  
Next slide.   
  
So, let’s look at what we have.  We have three anti-SARS-CoV-2
monoclonal antibody products that have currently had Emergency Use
Authorization from the FDA.  And the EUAs here are for adults and
children 12 years of age and older who weigh at least 88 pounds.  
  
There are three of them.  There’s the Lilly product — the bamlanivimab
plus etesevimab.  There’s the Regeneron project — product, referred to
as REGEN-COV.  And then there’s the GSK and Vir product.  Each of these
products targets the spike protein of SARS-CoV-2.   
  
Next slide.   
  
So, you can do an indication for these antibodies that are twofold.  The
first is to treat infection with SARS-CoV-2.   
  
Next slide.   
  
And in this regard, clinical trials have demonstrated that early
treatment with anti-SARS-CoV-2 monoclonal antibodies can reduce the risk
of COVID-19 hospitalization or death by 70 to 85 percent.   
  
It is important to emphasize that this must be done early in infection
and not wait, of course, until a person is sick enough to be
hospitalized.  That’s when you get the best effect.   
  
And again, being an underutilized intervention, we want people out
there, including physicians, as well as potential patients, to realize
the advantage of this very effective way of treating early infection.   
  
Next slide.   
  
Now, if you look at the people who should benefit from this, this is a
list from the FDA and the NIH treatment guidelines about all of the
people who may have significant benefit from this type of therapy if
given early in their infection.   
  
I’m not going to go through each and every one of them, but as you can
see, there are a number of conditions on this slide that could benefit
from the monoclonal antibody treatment after infection.   
  
Next slide.   
  
But there’s also the benefit of prevention using monoclonal
antibodies.   
  
Next slide.   
  
And we know now that the FDA, just a couple of weeks ago, authorized the
Regeneron monoclonal antibody for post-exposure prophylaxis, namely for
the prevention of COVID-19 after someone has been exposed to a
documented case of SARS-CoV-2.   
  
And even now — and I won’t show the data because of lack of time — there
are now studies in pre-exposure prophylaxis, as well as other studies in
treatment.   
  
So, I’ll have on the last slide — next slide — the treatment guidelines
panel.  We can give you all the information, and it’s accessible on the
website shown here.  And for physicians, patients, and others who want
to know how you can get monoclonal antibodies administered, this is the
call center and this is the online way to approach it.   
  
So, bottom line is: This is a very effective intervention for COVID-19. 
It is underutilized, and we recommend strongly that we utilize this to
its fullest.   
  
Back now to Vivek Murthy — Dr. Murthy.   
  
DR. MURTHY:  Well, thanks, Dr. Fauci.  And it’s really good to be with
all of you again virtually today.   
  
Yesterday’s FDA approval of the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine is a new
milestone for our country’s vaccination efforts.  We know that some
people have been waiting for this next step to be complete before they
choose to get vaccinated.  And if that’s you, the time to get vaccinated
is now.   
  
I want to talk about what approval will mean for three major groups that
have played a key role in getting people vaccinated to date.   
  
First, the approval will help doctors and nurses instill even more
confidence in the vaccine among their patients.  More and more,
clinicians are talking to their patients about vaccination, recognizing
that they are among the most powerful voices in helping people
understand the lifesaving benefits of the vaccines.   
  
They’re also administering the vaccines in their clinics and hospitals. 
According to one estimate, the number of primary care practices which
administer vaccinations in their offices jumped from less than 40
percent in April to over 75 percent in mid-July, which means that it’s a
lot easier now for patients to get vaccinated during routine visits.   
  
In addition, four of the country’s largest health systems, representing
315 hospitals and more than 30 million annual patient encounters, have
just committed to making vaccination more convenient by vaccinating in
primary care offices, hospital discharge points, and emergency
departments.  And an additional 29 healthcare networks have committed to
proactively reach out to their unvaccinated patients to make vaccines
available at more primary care offices and to arrange transportation to
vaccination sites.  
  
Second, the approval will also support employers and educators in their
efforts to vaccinate their workers and students.  As our kids and young
people return to the classroom, we know that many schools and
universities and businesses have established vaccination requirements in
order to create safer places for people to work and to learn.   
  
Yesterday’s approval by the FDA will help nudge organizations who may
have been on the fence about vaccine requirements to move forward with
such plans.  It will give these institutions one more reason for their
students and employees to get vaccinated. They’ll be able to tell them
that the FDA approval represents the gold standard for vaccine safety
and effectiveness.  And they’ll be able to tell them the FDA didn’t cut
any corners to approve the COVID-19 vaccine.  What they did do is work
around the clock reviewing hundreds of thousands of pages of data and
inspecting the facilities where the vaccines were produced.   
  
After all that, the Pfizer vaccine passed the FDA’s rigorous review —
yet another reason to feel confident that getting vaccinated is the
right thing to do.   
  
And third, the approval will embolden and equip our COVID-19 Community
Corps with even more tools to talk to their communities about
vaccination.  
  
Since the spring, we’ve been building this people-powered movement of
individuals and organizations across the nation based on our belief that
health information is best when it comes from local trusted sources.  
  
The thousands of conversations that our Community Corps members have had
in recent months has led more people to get vaccinated, and those
conversations have saved lives.  Now they have yet another tool to help
people understand the safety and effectiveness of the vaccines.   
  
You know, at the end of the day, the reason we are making progress and
increasing vaccination rates is because, in the face of the Delta
variant, everyday Americans are doing their part to talk with each other
about getting vaccinated.   
  
We’re making progress because so many doctors and nurses and other
health professionals are taking time to have these conversations with
their patients, even while they work around the clock to care for the
thousands of people hospitalized with COVID-19.   
  
So, if you are not vaccinated, the FDA announcement gives you one more
reason to get vaccinated.  Please do it.  Please get vaccinated.  Do it
for your own health.  Do it for our children who aren’t able to get
vaccinated and rely on the rest of us to shield them from infection.  Do
it for our healthcare workers who are running on fumes as they struggle
to care for COVID-19 patients in overflowing hospitals for the fourth
time during this pandemic.  And do it for your community, which needs
more people like you to get vaccinated in order to return to normal.   
  
If you are already vaccinated, this is the time for you to talk to your
family and your friends and urge them to get vaccinated.   
  
The Delta variant continues to spread, and everything we have learned
until now has told us that the vaccines are the best way to save lives
and keep people out of the hospital.  
  
Thanks for your time.  I’ll pass it back to Jeff.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Thank you, Doctors.  Let’s open it up for a few questions. 
Kevin?  
  
MODERATOR:  First question, let’s go to Kristen Shamus at the Detroit
Free Press.  
  
Q    Thanks so much for taking my question.  I wanted to ask a little
bit about the CDC recommendation for masking in K-to-12 schools.  Many
school districts have opted not to require them despite that
recommendation.  And given that COVID-19 case rates, hospitalizations
among children are climbing, is it now time for the federal government
to ask governors to put in place statewide mask mandates for K-to-12
schools, especially given that kids at the elementary level where
they’re not yet eligible for vaccines?  And if not, why not?  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Dr. Walensky, do you want to go first there?  
  
DR. WALENSKY:  Yeah, I will just say it’s critically important that we
get our children back to school.  We have seen over the last year and a
half now the implications of not having our children in in-person
learning.  We know that most of the disease that comes into the schools
comes in from communities.  And we have high rates of the communities
now, so we want to decrease the rates of community — of disease in
communities by surrounding children with people who are vaccinated.   
  
And then, of course, to following our prevention guidance for schools —
which we have provided: layered mitigation strategies, including
masking, as well as cohorting, ventilation, and distancing, and
screening to keep our children safe in the school environment.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Yeah, just to — just to add a little bit to what Dr.
Walensky said: You know, the President’s message to those educators who
are stepping up right now to protect their students when their governor
will not is clear, and that is that we stand with you and are ready to
support you in any way.   
  
As Dr. Walensky said, the bottom line is: We know what works.  The
vaccines work, masking works, prevention and mitigation strategies
work.  And there’s plenty of funding that’s been made available thanks
to the American Rescue Plan.   
  
Unfortunately, some school districts are being forced with difficult
choices: defy their governors or hurt their students.  No school should
have to make that choice.  Governors and other leaders must put politics
and their own political self-interests aside.   
  
The President has directed Secretary Cardona to look at everything that
can possibly be done to protect students and help local leaders do the
right things to keep kids safe and in the school.  And one of the
options that the Secretary has laid out is out of his office of Civil
Rights Investigations.  
  
So we’ll continue to use every tool available to support efforts to
protect students and bring them back to school safely.   
  
Next question.   
  
MODERATOR:  (Inaudible.)  
  
Q    Hi, can you hear me?   
  
MR.  ZIENTS:  Yes, we can.    
  
Q    Great.  Can you talk about — I just came out with story yesterday
about the problems that pregnant people in the U.S. are facing: Only —
76 percent of pregnant people in the U.S. are unvaccinated, and we are
seeing rises in pregnant people who ended up hospitalized with
COVID-19.  What are you going to do to try and get more pregnant people
to get vaccinated, especially in light of the CDC’s recommendation to do
so, a few weeks ago?  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  So, Dr. Walensky, why don’t you review that recommendation,
and, Dr. Murthy, you could talk about efforts to get the word out.  
  
DR. WALENSKY:  Right.  Thank you.  So, last week, we reiterated and
strengthened our guidance for pregnant people to get vaccinated.  We
have data on CDC website talking about pregnant women who have gotten
vaccinated during pregnancy.  However, there are a lot of more
vaccinated people who were vaccinated prior to their pregnancy.   
  
We do know that SARS-CoV-2 — COVID — leads to increased severity of
outcomes in pregnant women and increased severity of outcomes in their
unborn babies.  And so, we are advocating, suggesting, highly
recommending — as is the American College of OBGYN — to vaccinate people
before pregnancy or during pregnancy.  
  
DR. MURTHY:  Thanks, Dr. Walensky.  And what I would also say is: We
believe this issue is so important that we have mobilized a number of
assets to help get the information out.  We’ve been working with the
medical community, with the American College of Obstetricians and
Gynecologists, with family medicine doctors and other primary care
providers to make sure that they are talking to their patients.   
  
We’re also doing sessions where we’re talking directly to communities,
hosting community town halls.  And we’re also working with our trusted
messengers to make sure folks are talking to people in communities —
whether that’s in churches or synagogues or other settings — to get this
information out.  
  
What people also — it’s so important that they understand is that the
risks of getting COVID during pregnancy are significant.  There’s a
significant increased risk of hospitalization, of ICU stay, of preterm
labor and preterm birth.  These are not insignificant risks.  And the
best way to reduce your risk, to take care of, you know, yourself during
pregnancy is to get vaccinated.  That’s why we’re working hard to get
that message out.   
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Next question.   
  
MODERATOR:  We’ll go to Sasha Pezenik at ABC News.  
  
Q    Hey, guys.  Thank you for taking my question.  It’s a two-part
one.  The first is for Dr. Fauci.  You’ve given the timeline that
Americans could see the light at the end of the tunnel in the pandemic
by the spring of 2022, and to get there, a lot more eligible
unvaccinated people will have to step up for their shot.  But what
happens if, after this full approval of Pfizer, we still don’t see the
vaccination numbers budge significantly?  So what’s the administration’s
plan at that point to get us where we need to be?  
  
And that leads me to part two for Jeff Zients.  The vaccines’ full
licensure may pave the way for further vaccine mandates.  Is the
administration prepared to go to bat legally for businesses or schools
that mandate vaccines?  
  
DR. FAUCI:  Well, let me take —  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Dr. Fauci.  
  
DR. FAUCI:  Yeah, thanks, Jeff.  Let me take the first part of that
question.  
  
You know, you really have to be careful when you ask for projected
timelines, because the fact is, the most prevailing issue involved here
is that if we can get as many people vaccinated as we possibly can, as
quickly and as efficiently we can — particularly in the context of the
BLA now that has come out from Pfizer and the availability of other
vaccines on EUA — we can end this as a pandemic even sooner than
that.   
  
So rather than focus on the situation of getting a specific timeline, I
would like to appeal to this country — to the people in the country who
are not vaccinated — to realize that we have the capability among
ourselves to essentially cut down the timeframe to getting the end of
this pandemic very, very clearly by just listening to everything you’ve
heard on this press conference.  Get vaccinated and the timeframe will
be truncated dramatically.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  So on the second part of your question, in terms of vaccine
requirements, I think we have a strong track record that shows that
we’re willing to pull lever after lever, and we’ll continue to look for
additional measures we can take to require vaccines.  
  
Over the past several weeks, we’ve imposed a series of new requirements:
first, federal workers who must show proof of vaccination or undergo
rigorous testing and masking; second, the armed forces who require
COVID-19 vaccinations now for all 2.1 million troops and National
Guardsmen and women; third, people who work in federal medical
facilities, including the VA, Indian Health Services, and the Public
Health Service Corps.  And just last week, using the power of the
federal government as a payer of healthcare costs, we’re requiring
nursing home workers to be vaccinated.   
  
We’ll continue to look at every possible lever the federal government
can pull to help curb this virus.  And as to your question as to the
private sector and public sector and not-for-profit leaders, we expect
more and more vaccination requirements.  They can help us end this
pandemic.  And, you know, we certainly have their backs.  And the
Justice Department has already said that vaccine requirements are indeed
legal.  
  
Next question.  
  
MODERATOR:  Let’s go to Sarah Karlin-Smith.  
  
Q    Hi, thanks for taking the question.  You talked about the plan for
boosters again today.  I was curious if you could comment on why the
White House is sort of getting in front of CDC and FDA here in terms of
them actually reviewing applications and having data and, you know, the
necessary evidence to recommend boosters.  Couldn’t it create some
public confusion if, once the FDA and CDC do their work, it doesn’t
quite align with what the White House has been saying?  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Well, good question.  Thank you for that question.  As our
medical experts laid out last week, having reviewed the data, it was, in
their clinical judgment, the time to lay out a plan for COVID-19
boosters.   
  
We announced our approach in order to stay ahead of this virus, give
states and pharmacies time to plan — I mentioned the planning meetings
that we had this morning with governors and pharmacy CEOs — and to give
Americans time to prepare for their planned eight-month booster.

So, we’ve also made it very clear — starting last week and we continue
to reiterate — that our plan is pending the FDA conducting an
independent evaluation and the CDCs panel of outside experts, the ACIP,
issuing a booster dose recommendation — or a booster recommendation.

You know, this virus has proven to be very unpredictable, and we’ve been
planning for every scenario.  And we want to make sure we stay ahead of
the virus. 

Next question. 

DR. MURTHY:  Jeff, can I just add one thing to that?

MR. ZIENTS:  Please. 

DR. MURTHY.  Yeah, so, I mean, Sarah, it’s a great question, and one
thing I want to emphasize: A key piece that went into this decision
making was the commitment to transparency.   
  
If you recall, we had been saying — myself, Dr. Fauci, Dr. Walensky, Dr.
Collins, and others — other scientists and public health experts in the
department — we’ve been saying for weeks that we are looking closely at
the data to look for evidence that breakthroughs are increasing, any
evidence that boosters may be needed.  And if and when we see that, we
will tell you.

When we came together and looked at the data that finally gave us a
sense that there was a signal, or that it was important to act on, we
wanted to tell the public as soon as possible because that was a
commitment that we made.

In no way does this actually bypass the integrity of the FDA and the CDC
Advisory Committee processes.  In fact, if you look at the letter that
was signed and the statement that was put out from us, it is from not
anybody else but the scientific experts in the department, from Dr.
Walensky; Dr. Fauci; myself; from Dr. Janet Woodcock, the head of the
FDA; from the head of the NIH, Dr. Collins; and other medical
professionals who drove in this decision making. 

So, we can preserve integrity of process while still being transparent
with the public, while still planning ahead and giving people a sense of
what may come.  And that’s what we were doing with that announcement. 

MR. ZIENTS:  Thanks, Dr. Murthy.  Next question. 

MODERATOR:  Last question.  Let’s go to Erin Billups at Spectrum News. 

Q    Hi.  Thank you so much for taking my question.  You know, many
parents are under the impression that young children do not spread the
virus as effectively as adults, but there have recently been studies
that challenge that.  But as more and more schools are requiring
vaccinations of everyone eligible — all staff, teachers — I’m wondering
if you could paint a picture for parents as to why their younger
children should still need to be masked.  What is the risk of young kids
contracting the virus and spreading it to other people?

MR. ZIENTS:  Dr. Walensky. 

DR. WALENSKY:  Yes, thank you for that question.  I think our data have
demonstrated that in — with Alpha, certainly, we saw less transmission
in schools among childr- — between children and between children and
staff than we saw between staff to staff.  It’s not that there was none;
it was that there was less. 

We also know now we’re dealing with a much more transmissible virus. 
And we have, of course, seen outbreaks where children are transmitting
to other children, so — and certainly with the Delta variant, that we
know that that transmissibility is increased somewhere around twofold. 

So, the reason to mask in schools is not necessarily only to protect our
adults but also to protect our children from transmissibility from one
child to another, and then, of course, from children going home to
perhaps unvaccinated or immunocompromised or at-risk adults who might
have waning immunity. 

MR. ZIENTS:  Wonderful.  Well, thank you, everybody.  We look forward to
the next briefing. 

2:19 P.M. EDT

To view the COVID Press Briefing slides,
visit: <https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/08/COVID-Press-Briefing_24August2021_for-transcript.pdf>
