---
tags: press-briefings
date: '2021-08-12'
modified_time: 2021-08-12 16:40:44-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/08/12/press-briefing-by-white-house-covid-19-response-team-and-public-health-officials-49/
published_time: 2021-08-12 16:40:43-04:00
title: "Press Briefing by White\_House COVID-\u206019 Response Team and Public Health\_\
  Officials"
---
 
Via Teleconference 

12:40 P.M. EDT

MR. ZIENTS:  Good morning, and thank you for joining us.  Dr. Walensky,
Dr. Fauci, Dr. Nunez-Smith and I will keep our comments brief this
morning so we can get to your questions.

I’ll start with an update on our fight against the Delta variant.  The
Delta variant continues to drive a rise in cases, with cases
concentrated in communities with lower vaccination rates.

In the past week, Florida has had more COVID cases than all 30 states
with the lowest case rates combined.  And Florida and Texas alone have
accounted for nearly 40 percent of new hospitalizations across the
country.

We all know that vaccinations are the very best line of defense against
COVID and how we end this pandemic.  That is why we’ve been tireless in
our efforts to get more and more Americans vaccinated.

For the first time since mid-June, we’re averaging about a half million
people getting newly vaccinated each and every day. And overall in the
last week, 3.3 million Americans rolled up their sleeve to get their
first shot.

In the past month, we have doubled the average number of 12- to
17-year-olds getting newly vaccinated each day — critical progress as
millions of adolescents start heading back to school.

Importantly, we’re seeing the most significant vaccinations progress in
states with the highest case rates.

In fact, in the past month, we have nearly tripled the average number of
shots each day in Arkansas and quadrupled in Louisiana, Alabama, and
Mississippi.

So, we’re getting more shots in arms in the places that need them the
most.  That’s what it’s going to take to end this pandemic: more
vaccinations, more Americans doing their part and rolling up their
sleeve.

Over the past few weeks, we’ve seen strong actions from across the
public and private sectors to help end the pandemic.

The President recently announced vaccination requirements for all 4
million federal workers, and we are working to apply similar standards
to all federal contractors.

On Monday, the Department of Defense announced its plans to add COVID-19
vaccines to the list of vaccines required for more than 1.7 million
active duty, reserve, and National Guard personnel.

And just this morning, the Department of Veteran Affairs and the
Department of Health and Human Services announced new requirements: All
350,000 VA healthcare personnel and all 25,000 HHS healthcare personnel
must now be fully vaccinated.

State and local governments; healthcare systems; businesses, small and
large; universities; and other institutions are also stepping up.

Since last week, Washington State; Washington, D.C.; and Seattle have
all adopted vaccination requirements, and more than 50 health systems
across the country have announced that all staff need to be vaccinated,
bringing the total to more than 200 health systems.

Just in the past 24 hours, Amtrak, McDonald’s, NBCUniversal, Discovery,
and Capital One all announced new rules that workers must be vaccinated
to return to the office.

California announced all schoolteachers and staff in the state, serving
more than 6 million students, will be required to be vaccinated or
tested weekly.

And the NEA and the AFT, two of the largest unions in the country —
representing 5 million educators, childcare workers, and school staff —
both came out in favor of school districts pursuing COVID-19 vaccination
policies, including requirements for teachers and staff.

And across the country, nearly 700 colleges and universities have
announced vaccination requirements, which will cover roughly 5 million
students getting ready to head back to school.

So, clearly, vaccination requirements are gaining momentum across the
country and are already covering tens of millions of workers, educators,
college and university students, and healthcare providers.

They will help keep people and communities safe and help stop the spread
of the virus.

Here’s the bottom line: Through vaccination requirements, employers have
the power to help end the pandemic.

As we drive progress on vaccinations, we are accelerating our efforts to
help states respond to outbreaks caused by Delta.

Our COVID-19 Surge Response Teams have deployed more than 500 federal
personnel, including hundreds of healthcare personnel in Louisiana,
Mississippi, and Arizona to provide emergency medical care.

CDC is on the ground in Tennessee, Illinois, and Missouri to help local
outbreak investigations and vaccination efforts.

We’ve sent ambulances and paramedics to Missouri and Louisiana.  And in
Florida, we’ve stood up dozens of free testing sites and sent 200
ventilators to hospitals in the state.

And importantly, as Dr. Nunez-Smith will discuss, we sent five times as
many lifesaving therapeutics to states in July compared to June.

I’ll close with this: We are doing everything we can to get people
vaccinated and support state and local leaders on the ground.  But as we
have said from the start, ending this pandemic requires every American
doing their part.

So, please, if you’re unvaccinated, get your shot.  It’s free, it’s
convenient, it works, and it’s never been more important.

With that, let me hand it over to Dr. Walensky.

DR. WALENSKY:  Thank you, Jeff.  Good afternoon.

Let’s begin with an overview of the data.  Yesterday, CDC reported
132,384 new cases of COVID-19.  Our seven-day average is about 113,000
cases per day, and this represents an increase of nearly 24 percent from
the prior seven-day average. 

The seven-day average of hospital admissions is at about 9,700 per day,
an increase of about 31 percent from the prior seven-day period.  And
the seven-day average of daily deaths has also increased to 452 per day,
an increase of 22 percent from the prior seven-day period. 

We continue to see cases, hospitalizations, and deaths increase across
the country.  And now, over 90 percent of counties in the United States
are experiencing substantial or high transmission. 

As we have been saying: By far, those at highest risk remain people who
have not yet been vaccinated.  This week, we are taking two important
steps in encouraging and improving vaccine protection for Americans. 

First, for pregnant people who are at higher risk of severe illness from
COVID-19, we are strengthening our guidance and recommending that all
pregnant people or people thinking about becoming pregnant get
vaccinated. 

We now have new data that reaffirm the safety of our vaccines for people
who are pregnant, including those early in pregnancy and around the time
of conception.  These data build on previous evidence from three safety
monitoring systems that did not find any safety concerns for pregnant
people who are vaccinated late in pregnancy or for their babies. 

Now these new data found no increase in the risk for miscarriage among
people who received an mRNA COVID-19 vaccine before 20 weeks of
pregnancy.

Clinicians have seen the number of pregnant people infected with
COVID-19 rise in the past several weeks.  The increased circulation of
the highly contagious Delta variant, the general low vaccine uptake
among pregnant people, and the increased risk of severe illness and
pregnancy complications related to COVID-19 infection among pregnant
people make vaccination for this population more urgent than ever. 

Second, I want to take a moment to discuss what we are doing to help
increase protection against COVID-19 for certain individuals who are
moderately and severely immunocompromised. 

As we’ve been saying for weeks, emerging data show that certain people
who are immunocompromised, such as people who have had organ transplant
and some cancer patients, may not have had an adequate immune response
to just two doses of the COVID vaccine. 

To be clear, this is a very small population.  We estimate it to be less
than 3 percent of adults. 

We’ve been working to identify how best to provide increased protection
to these vulnerable people who are disproportionately impacted by severe
outcomes due to COVID-19.  FDA is working with Pfizer and Moderna to
allow boosters for these vulnerable people. 

An additional dose could help increase protections for these
individuals, which is especially important as the Delta variant
spreads. 

Following the FDA’s decision, CDC will hold a meeting of its Advisory
Committee on Immunization Practices tomorrow to discuss this issue and
offer their expert insights and recommendations.  We look forward to
that discussion and to helping support this vulnerable population. 

At this time, only certain immune compromised individuals may need an
additional dose.  Emerging data, including from a significant study
published in the New England Journal of Medicine yesterday, show that
there’s an enhanced antibody response after an additional dose of an
mRNA COVID-19 vaccine in some immunocompromised people. 

This action is about ensuring our most vulnerable, who may need an
additional dose to enhance their biological responses to the vaccines,
are better protected against COVID-19. 

The science and resulting data in this pandemic are moving extremely
rapidly.  The U.S. government, in turn, is moving swiftly to analyze the
science and make the recommendations most appropriate to protect
Americans.  We know our vaccines are safe and effective.  And if you
have not gotten a vaccine yet, please do so today. 

Thank you.  I’ll turn things over to Dr. Fauci.

DR. FAUCI:  Thank you very much, Dr. Walensky.

So, it’s becoming very clear now — if you go to the first slide — that
we are dealing with a global outbreak of the Delta variant.  I keep
updating this slide; it now shows that at least 117 countries now have
the Delta variant since it was first detected in June of 2020. 

So, let’s just review some of the aspects of Delta to help put it into
the context of what we’re talking about.  We know the transmissibility —
that it’s greater than the Alpha variant, at least two times as great. 
This makes a major difference in transmissibility.  The viral load is up
to 1,000 times greater in the nasalpharynx of people with Delta than
Alpha, which is a mechanistic reason why you have such a tremendous
increase in transmissibility.

Next slide. 

In previous reviews before this group, I have shown this slide, in
checking the boxes as to the proof of protection against SARS-CoV-2
Delta variant. There was one glaring, missing check in previous
iterations of this, and that was in the J&J clinical effectiveness. 

Next slide. 

I had showed you before this slide looking at data of immune responses
in vitro.  And this was the J&J vaccine study, which showed that it
elicited durable antibody and cellular responses against Delta with
minimal decreases for at least eight months after immunization. 

Next slide. 

We now have a slide that recently — a study that recently came out from
South Africa and other southern African countries — it’s called the
Sisonke study — involving about 478,000 healthcare workers.  And this is
real-world effectiveness against Delta, with a 91 to 96 percent
protection against Delta, and then 71 percent protection against
hospitalization. 

And remember, I showed you before that the durability of the immune
response is out to eight months.  And this is the first real-world data
to show the effectiveness of J&J from this challenging epidemiological
setting of Delta, particularly in the context of people who might have
HIV. 

Next slide. 

Finally, if you look at breakthrough infections — which are inevitable
with any vaccine, because no vaccine is 100 percent effective — as you
can see, as we’ve seen in other studies, the breakthrough infections,
namely infections that occur in the setting of full vaccination, were
mild in 96 percent, moderate in 3 percent, severe in less than 0.05
percent, with death in less than 0.05 percent. 

So, I’ll stop there and hand it over to Marcella Nunez-Smith. 

DR. NUNEZ-SMITH:  Thank you so much, Dr. Fauci.  And good afternoon to
everyone.  Today, I’ll just take a couple moments.  I want to update you
on vaccination equity, as well as on the importance of COVID-19
therapies.

So, first, when it comes to vaccinations and equity, important to note
that the majority of people who are getting vaccinated through the
direct federal programs are self-identifying as people of color — so
that’s through community health centers, through dialysis centers, and
at our Federal Retail Pharmacy partners. 

In a sense, President Biden made all adults in the U.S. eligible for
vaccine on April 19th, and the majority of individuals receiving
vaccines have identified as people of color. 

So that is notable progress, but it does not change the fact, as we’ve
been discussing, that there is, of course, still more work to do. 

And the work in this phase of the vaccination campaign remains
hyperlocal.  And that’s why the Biden-Harris administration will
continue to work just hand in hand with states and territories, Tribes,
cities — always centering our partnerships with faith-based and
community-based organizations, supporting that trusted outreach work
that needs to be done. 

I just want to provide a couple examples of the administration’s
resource commitment to engage partnership.  You know, in June and July,
the federal administration awarded over $240 million to support
community-based workers, community-based efforts — really expanding
local, tailored opportunity to build both vaccine confidence and vaccine
access. 

This past week, the CDC officially launched the Partnering for Vaccine
Equity program.  That’s an investment of $120 million in grants that
have been awarded. 

And later this week, $20 million will be distributed specifically to
Native Hawaiian communities.

In meeting people where they are, partnership is so powerful.  And many
of the incredible partners doing this work are health centers.  This is
National Health Center Week.  And on behalf of the administration, I
want to say thank you to health centers across the country: your
commitment, your dedication reaching underserved groups — health centers
on that frontline in vaccine administration, in testing, and in the
administration of safe, effective therapies. 

As Jeff mentioned earlier, these therapies do include monoclonal
antibodies.  And I want to talk a minute about those, but to people
across the country, let me just reiterate: The best strategy to remain
protected from the worst of COVID-19 is to get fully vaccinated. 

But if you get COVID-19 and you’re at high risk, I want to assure you
about these therapies.  The monoclonal antibodies work.  They are safe. 
They’re free.  They keep people out of the hospital and help keep them
alive. 

And our surge teams have been working closely with states, increasing
access, provider uptake, and patient confidence.  We’ve conducted
virtual trainings for physicians and health system officials.  And this
has been — you know, in Arizona, Nevada, Utah, Wyoming, with more to
come in Alabama and elsewhere. 

And in fact, in Arizona, we have a federal clinical team on the ground
now, helping to set up and run two sites to provide these treatments. 
And those efforts are paying off.

Now, of the COVID-positive patients the Arizona team has treated so far,
not one has required hospitalization after that treatment. 

But we can also report that we’ve surged shipments to the states with
the highest rates of community transmission.  For example, Florida
shipments increased over eightfold over the past month. 

And in July, more than 108,000 treatments were shipped all over the
country by the federal government.  And as Jeff mentioned, this
represents more than a fivefold increase nationally from June. 

Over the course of the entire pandemic, more than 600,000 patients
across the country have received monoclonal antibody treatments; that’s
hospitalizations averted and lives saved.

So, the Biden-Harris administration continues to stand ready to assist
states and territories and jurisdictions across the country to get more
people connected to testing, to treatment, and, absolutely, to
vaccination.

So, thank you so much.  And with that, I’ll turn it back over to you,
Jeff.

MR. ZIENTS:  Okay, well, thank you, doctors.  Let’s open it up for
questions.

First question.

MODERATOR:  Sabrina Siddiqui at The Wall Street Journal.

Q    Yes.  Hi, thank you so much as always for doing the briefing. 
We’re seeing a rising number of children being infected with COVID-19. 
So, I have a two-fold question: Is there data to suggest that the Delta
variant is more virulent in children?  And given that increase, are you
still confident that schools can fully reopen for in-person instruction,
or are you considering further changes to the guidelines?

MR. ZIENTS:  Let’s start with Dr. Fauci on the first part of the
question, and then Dr. Walensky on school openings. 

Dr. Fauci.

DR. FAUCI:  Thank you, Jeff.  Well, in answer to the first part of your
question: There’s no doubt that there are more children getting
infected.  As I mentioned in one of my slides, the Delta variant is much
more highly transmissible than was Alpha.  So, given that, you will see
more children likely get infected. 

And since you have a certain percentage of children, even though the
percentage is small, a certain percentage of children will require
hospitalization.  So, quantitatively, you will see more children in the
hospital.

Regarding the severity of illness, there was a couple of studies, mostly
international, which suggested that Delta was more severe in adults,
namely causing more (inaudible) relative percentage of hospitalization
and more severe disease. 

With regard to children, this could possibly be the case, but we are not
seeing this in a definitive way.  The only thing we know for sure is
that more infections mean more children will be in the hospital.

With regard to the school part — about that, I think we’ll go back to
Dr. Walensky.

DR. WALENSKY:  Thank you, Dr. Fauci.  And thank you, Sabrina, for that
question.

What we know is that where we have higher rates of infection among
children is where we have lower rates of vaccination, in general —
higher rates of community transmission. 

We do know how to keep our children safe.  We know how to do so in
schools.  And we know that most of the infections that is coming in
through — into schools is coming from high rates of disease in the
community. 

So, the best way to keep our schools safe — and we know how to do it —
is to vaccinate everyone who can be vaccinated, vaccinate family members
of children who cannot yet be vaccinated, and then to follow the
mitigation strategies in our school guidance, including masking in
schools.

MR. ZIENTS:  The one thing I’d add there is, due to the passage of the
American Rescue Plan several months ago, all schools have the resources
to implement those mitigation strategies.

Next question.

MODERATOR:  Josh Wingrove at Bloomberg.

Q    Hi, thank you.  Can you give us an update on the plan to start
shipping those 500 million Pfizer doses that was meant to commence this
month?  Has that started?  And what kind of pace will we see in the
coming weeks?  Thank you.

MR. ZIENTS:  Thanks, Josh.  The 500 million Pfizer doses that were
announced in June to be donated to the world — those shipments do begin
this month, and we will ship a total of 200 million by the end of this
year — this calendar year, with the remaining 300 million shipped no
later than the first half of 2022.  So, everything is on schedule there,
Josh, and shipments are beginning in the next several days.

Next question. 

MODERATOR:  Next question.  Let’s go to Weijia at CBS.

Q    Thanks, Kevin.  And thanks for taking my question.  My — a quick
follow-up on Sabrina’s.  What is the latest data about children and
long-haul symptoms after they recover even from mild cases? 

And then, Jeff, for you: Now that more entities are requiring vaccines,
is the administration reconsidering something like a QR code or a
passport to help verify people’s vaccination status?  And if not, what
are you doing to stop the proliferation of fake vaccine cards?  Thank
you.

MR. ZIENTS:  Okay.  Dr. Walensky, on the children, long-COVID question.

DR. WALENSKY:  Right.  Thank you for that question.

We are examining long COVID in children, and we are seeing long-COVID
symptoms — mostly fatigue and headache.  They appear to be happening at
rates that are lower than they are in adults — in the 2 to 3 percent. 
But, of course, data with Delta and long COVID will need to be followed
differently and longitudinally as we have been with Alpha.  So more data
to follow on that.

MR. ZIENTS:  You know, on to vaccination verification: There are a
number of ways people can demonstrate their vaccination status. 
Companies and organizations and the federal government are taking
different approaches.  And, you know, we applaud this innovation. 

There will be no federal vaccination database.  As with all other
vaccines, the information gets held at the state and local level.  But
any system that is developed, in the private sector or elsewhere, must
meet key standards, including affordability, being available both
digitally and on paper, and, importantly, protecting people’s privacy
and security.

The second part of your question — you know, we are aware of some cases
of fraud or counterfeit COVID-19 cards being advertised on social media
sites and eCommerce platforms.  While the practice is not widespread,
you know, I will remind everyone that it’s a crime and the Office of the
Inspector General, the Department of Health and Human Services is
investigating these schemes.

Next question.

MODERATOR:  Cheyenne Haslett at ABC News.

Q    Hi, thanks for taking my question.  I want to follow up on a
question from last week about the hospitalization rates for unvaccinated
versus vaccinated people.  The CDC has been saying it’s 97 percent of
people winding up in the hospital who are unvaccinated.  Has that number
changed with Delta?  And do you have better numbers on the efficacy,
yet, Dr. Walensky?

DR. WALENSKY:  Thank you.  That 97 percent was data from January through
May — January, sorry, through June.  And, of course, with more and more
people being vaccinated and with the Delta variant, those numbers are
fluid, and we’re continuing to evaluate those.

Next question.

MODERATOR:  Let’s go to Kelly Lienhard at Inside Health Policy.

Q    Hi, thanks for taking my question.  There have been reports from
CDC that over a million people have already gotten unauthorized third
doses of mRNA vaccines.  Do you know if private insurances and Medicare
are still covering the administration fee for these shots even though
they’re not recommended currently?

MR. ZIENTS:  Dr. Walensky.

DR. WALENSKY:  Yeah, we are doing an evaluation on that just to make
sure and understand — and we have the capacity to track this and to
understand the practice.  Many of these are occurring in the context of
people who may believe they are — merit another shot, may be severely
immunocompromised and are doing so in advance of our recommendations.

The one thing I want to highlight in the context of this is that it does
undermine our ability to monitor safety in these contexts.  So, we are
asking people to follow our guidance, to follow what ACIP will say and
the FDA will say in the coming day — several days, and to follow
recommendations so we can we can follow safety signals here as well.

Next question.

MODERATOR:  Last question.  Let’s go to Michael Erman at Reuters.

Q    Hi.  Dr. Fauci said this morning on an interview that he believes
boosters, in general, are an inevitability.  I’m just wondering how soon
you expect that you might make a decision on that.  And what sort of
data are you looking for to make that decision?

DR. FAUCI:  Well, when I made that statement — it’s a true statement
that we believe, sooner or later, you will need a booster for durability
of protection. 

Right now, you know, (inaudible), as we mentioned, we are evaluating
this on a day-by-day, week-by-week, month-by-month basis, looking at any
of a number of studies, both international and domestic studies.  And as
we’ve stated many times, right at this moment — apart from the
immunocompromised, which was just discussed — we do not believe that
others — elderly or nonelderly — who are not immunocompromised, need a
vaccine right at this moment.  But this is a dynamic process and the
data will be evaluated. 

The one thing we are doing is we are preparing for the eventuality of
doing that.  So, if the data shows us that in fact we do need to do
that, we’ll be very ready to do it and do it expeditiously.

MR. ZIENTS:  Yeah, I’ll just emphasize what Dr. Fauci ended with, which
is if and when there is a decision, we are prepared.  We have the
supply, and people will be able to get a booster in a fast and efficient
way — if and when the science dictates.

Thank you.  And I look forward to seeing everybody at the next briefing.

1:08 P.M. EDT      

To view the COVID Press Briefing slides,
visit: <https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/08/COVID-Press-Briefing_12August2021_for-transcript.pdf>
