---
category: press-briefings
date: '2021-08-18'
modified_time: 2021-08-18 15:42:36-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/08/18/press-briefing-by-white-house-covid-19-response-team-and-public-health-officials-50/
published_time: 2021-08-18 15:42:35-04:00
title: "Press Briefing by White\_House COVID-\u206019 Response Team and Public Health\_\
  Officials"
---
 
Via Teleconference 

11:10 A.M. EDT  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Good morning, and thank you for joining us.  Today, the
main topic of our briefing is our plan for booster shots.  So I’ll turn
to Drs. Murthy, Walensky, and Fauci in just a moment.  
  
First, I want to provide a brief update on our fight against the virus. 
We continue to see a rise in cases driven by the more transmissible
Delta variant, with cases concentrated in communities with lower
vaccination rates.  
  
So this remains a pandemic of the unvaccinated.  
  
We know getting more people vaccinated is the best way to end this
pandemic.  And thanks to our relentless efforts to get more shots in
arms, we are making progress.  
  
In the last two weeks alone, nearly 7 million Americans have rolled up
their sleeves and gotten their first shot.  Seven million.  That’s that
highest two-week total since the beginning of June.  
  
And over the past month, we’ve also seen a 75 percent increase in the
average daily number of 12- to 15-year-olds getting vaccinated —
particularly important as adolescents begin going back to school.  
  
And once the numbers from today are reported, we will have reached 200
million Americans with at least their first shot.  Two hundred million
Americans with at least one shot.  That’s a major milestone.  
  
Americans across the country are continuing to step up, do their part,
and get vaccinated.  We are using every lever at our disposal to fight
the virus, including by ensuring state and local leaders have the tools
and the resources they need to get more shots in arms and to respond to
any outbreaks caused by Delta.  
  
Our COVID-19 Surge Response Teams are a whole-of-government effort, with
experts and personnel and resources from HHS, CDC, FEMA, the Department
of Defense, and the Department of Veteran Affairs.  
  
These Surge Response Teams are now working with 16 states to address
their particular needs — from deploying hundreds of personnel to provide
medical care; to standing up free testing sites; to surging critical
assets like ventilators and ambulances to strained health systems; to
getting shots in arms, including through the use of mobile clinics; to
sending and supporting the use of lifesaving treatments.  And we will
continue working closely with states to do all that we can and to match
resources to their needs.  
  
Just yesterday, President Biden directed FEMA to continue fully
reimbursing states, Tribes, and territories for all eligible COVID-19
emergency response costs through the end of the calendar year — a
three-month extension of the order he signed on his first full day in
office.  
  
Importantly, this maintains 100 percent federal reimbursement for state
deployments of National Guard personnel for critical COVID-19
missions.  
  
President Biden committed to the American people that he would do
everything in his power to end this pandemic.  And from his first day in
office, the President has marshalled a wartime effort to do exactly
that.  We’ve been preparing for every scenario, including the potential
need for vaccine booster shots.  
  
Our approach on booster shots is simple, and it’s consistent with our
approach on every other front of this war: Be guided by the science, and
always, always stay one step ahead of the virus.  
  
Now, let me turn it to Dr. Murthy to discuss our booster plans, and then
Drs. Walensky and Fauci to discuss the science behind the plan.  
  
Over to you, Dr. Murthy.  
  
SURGEON GENERAL MURTHY:  Well, thanks, Jeff.  And it’s good to be with
all of you again today.  Today, I want to update you about where we are
regarding boosters for fully vaccinated individuals.  
  
Our top priority has always been protecting people and their families
with COVID — from COVID-19.  And we have been fortunate to have safe and
effective vaccines that offer outstanding protection against the worst
outcomes of this virus — severe disease, hospitalization, and death.  
  
The COVID-19 vaccines that are authorized in the United States have been
remarkably effective, even against the widespread Delta variant.  But we
know that even highly effective vaccines become less effective over
time.  
  
Our goal has been to determine when that time might come for the
COVID-19 vaccines so we can make a plan to take proactive steps to
extend and enhance the protection the vaccines are giving us.  
  
Having reviewed the most current data, it is now our clinical judgment
that the time to lay out a plan for COVID-19 boosters is now.   
  
Recent data makes clear that protection against mild and moderate
disease has decreased over time.  This is likely due to both waning
immunity and the strength of the widespread Delta variant.  
  
Even though this new data — even though this new data affirms that
vaccine protection remains high against the worst outcomes of COVID, we
are concerned that this pattern of decline we are seeing will continue
in the months ahead, which could lead to reduced protection against
severe disease, hospitalization, and death.  
  
That is why, today, we are announcing our plan to stay ahead of this
virus by being prepared to offer COVID-19 booster shots to fully
vaccinated adults 18 years and older.  They would be eligible for their
booster shot eight months after receiving their second dose of the
Pfizer or Moderna mRNA vaccines.  We plan to start this program the week
of September 20th, 2021.  
  
I want to be very clear: This plan is pending the FDA conducting an
independent evaluation of the safety and effectiveness of a third dose
of the Pfizer and Moderna mRNA vaccines and the CDC’s Advisory Committee
on Immunization Practices issuing booster dose recommendations based on
a thorough review of the evidence.  
  
The plan ensures that people who were fully vaccinated earliest in the
vaccination rollout will be eligible for a booster first.  This includes
our most vulnerable populations, like our healthcare providers, nursing
home residents, and other seniors.  We will also begin delivering
booster shots directly to residents of long-term care facilities.   
  
For people who received the Johnson & Johnson vaccine, we anticipate
vaccine boosters will likely be needed.  The J&J vaccine was not
administered in the U.S. until March of 2021, and we expect more data on
J&J in the coming weeks.  With those data in hand, we will keep the
public informed with a timely plan for J&J booster shots.  
  
I want to emphasize that this decision was not made lightly.  It was
made with careful consideration by the top medical and public health
experts and the Department of Health and Human Services.  It was
informed by data, thoughtful analysis, and by our collective years of
experience addressing illness and epidemics.  
  
As always, we will continue to follow the science on a daily basis, and
we’ll take whatever steps are necessary to protect our nation from
COVID-19.   
  
This plan to administer booster doses does not change our commitment to
vaccinating those who are not yet vaccinated here in the U.S. and around
the world.  
  
The overwhelming majority of hospitalizations and death continue to
occur among the unvaccinated.  We will continue to ramp up efforts to
increase vaccinations here at home and to ensure people have accurate
information about vaccines and access to vaccinations.  
  
We will also continue to expand our efforts to increase the supply of
vaccines for other countries, building on the over 600 million doses we
have already committed to donate globally.  
  
We understand well that global pandemics require a global response and
strong leadership.  And we will not stop until America and the world are
vaccinated against COVID-19.  
  
I’m speaking to you today as your Surgeon General, but most importantly
as fellow American who has felt the pain of losing family members to
this disease and who hears, each day, the stories of people whose lives
have been upended and forever altered by COVID-19 — the brave doctors
and nurses in our hospitals, the teachers working to get our kids back
to school, and the frontline workers who have put themselves on the line
to make sure we can get groceries and supplies.   
  
We all want this pandemic to be over.  And right now, our quickest path
to getting COVID-19 under control, once and for all, is getting vaccines
to those who need them as quickly as possible.   
  
So, here’s what you need to know: If you are fully vaccinated, you still
have a high degree of protection from the worst outcomes of COVID-19 —
severe disease, hospitalization, and death — so we are not recommending
that you go out and get a booster today.  Instead, starting the week of
September 20th, fully vaccinated adults could begin getting their
booster shots eight months after their second shot of an mRNA vaccine.  
  
And finally, all of us must do everything we can to protect our
communities from COVID-19.  That means encouraging our family and
friends, our patients and students, our coworkers and neighbors to get
vaccinated.  That is our path to ending this pandemic.  
  
I’ll now turn it over to Dr. Walensky who will walk us through some of
the data that helped inform our decision to take action now.  
  
DR. WALENSKY:  Good morning, Doctor.  Good morning, everyone.  And Dr. —
as Dr. Murthy mentioned, I want to provide an update on vaccine
effectiveness.   
  
Today, we are releasing three articles in MMWR with data I will now
describe that are helping to inform our booster plans.  Recognizing that
for most vaccines there is a reduction in protection over time, we have
been analyzing the data closely from a number of cohorts in the United
States and around the world to understand how long protection from the
initial COVID-19 vaccine series will last.  
  
Examining numerous cohorts through the end of July and early August,
three points are now very clear.  First, vaccine-induced protection
against SARS-CoV-2 infection begins to decrease over time.  Second,
vaccine effectiveness against severe disease, hospitalization, and death
remains relatively high.  And third, vaccine effectiveness is generally
decreased against the Delta variant.   
  
So, let’s jump into the data.  On this slide, you will see two studies —
one from New York and one an analysis of data from the Mayo Clinic. 
From May 3rd through July 25th, New York examined COVID-19 tests and
linked them to individuals’ vaccination status based on the state’s
vaccine records.  This allowed New York to study vaccine effectiveness
against infection over time for more than 10 million New Yorkers of all
ages.   
  
Vaccine effectiveness in May, during — early, during the vaccine rollout
in the state, was 92 percent.  In the later months, further from
vaccination, vaccine effectiveness declined to 80 percent.  These data
will be published in the MMWR today.  
  
The Mayo Clinic analysis looked at vaccine effectiveness for both the
Pfizer and Moderna vaccines among over 80,000 vaccinated and
unvaccinated individuals across all age groups with data through July
16th.  
  
Like we saw in the New York data, vaccine effectiveness against
infection declined over time — in this case, from 76 percent to 42
percent for those who received the Pfizer vaccine, and from 86 percent
to 76 percent for those who received the Moderna vaccine.  These data
are currently available on a preprint server.  
  
Today, CDC will also publish data from our National Healthcare Safety
Network, a nursing home cohort where we analyzed more than 85,000 weekly
reports from more than 14,900 facilities.  
  
Weekly COVID-19 case counts were used to evaluate vaccine effectiveness
over time.  These data demonstrate that vaccine effectiveness declined
over time — from 75 percent in March, to 53 percent as recently as
August 1st, 2021.   
  
This represents a substantial decline in vaccine effectiveness against
infection among those who are most vulnerable, including during months
where Delta was the predominant circulating variant.   
  
Taken together, you can see that while the exact percentage of vaccine
effectiveness over time differs depending on the cohort and settings
study, the data consistently demonstrate a reduction of vaccine
effectiveness against infection over time.  
  
Importantly though, despite waning vaccine effectiveness against
infection, data analyzed through July continued to demonstrate the
stable and highly effective protection against severe illness and
hospitalization for people who are vaccinated.  Included in the same
reports described before, data from New York State and Mayo Clinic also
show that vaccine effectiveness against hospitalization remains
relatively high, both over time and during periods when the Delta
variant was surging.   
  
CDC will also publish, today, in the MMWR, data from the IVY network,
which examines data over 3,000 adults admitted to 21 hospitals across 18
states, between March and mid-July.  This report compares vaccine
effectiveness against hospitalizations early after vaccination, within 2
to 12 weeks, and later after vaccination, between 13 and 24 weeks, and
found that vaccine effectiveness against hospitalization remained high. 
However, in this study, only about 7 percent of samples sequenced were
the Delta variant.  
  
Taken together, these data confirm that while protection against
infection may decrease over time, protection against severe disease and
hospitalization is currently holding up pretty well.   
  
As we make decisions about boosters, though, we also have to look at
vaccine effectiveness in the specific context of the Delta variant.   
  
Preliminary data through August 6th from two of our vaccine
effectiveness cohort studies that include more than 4,000 healthcare
personnel, first responders, and other frontline workers in eight
locations across the country show waning effectiveness against
symptomatic and asymptomatic infection in the context of the Delta
variant: from 92 percent prior to Delta, to 64 percent with Delta. 
Notably, this analysis did not show difference over time, which suggests
effectiveness is also decreased against Delta, independent of when you
were vaccinated.  
  
These data suggest full vaccination in the context of the Delta variant
may be correlated with less protection against SARS-CoV-2 infection than
against prior variants.  
  
To be clear, our top priority is to save lives and prevent severe
infections.  The data we will publish today and next week demonstrate
the vaccine effectiveness against SARS-CoV-2 infection is waning.  And
even though our vaccines are currently working well to prevent
hospitalizations, we are seeing concerning evidence of waning vaccine
effectiveness over time and against the Delta variant.  
  
Additionally, reports from our international colleagues, including
Israel, suggest increased risk of severe disease amongst those
vaccinated early.  Given this body of evidence, we are concerned that
the current strong protection against severe infection, hospitalization,
and death could decrease in the months ahead, especially among those who
are at higher risk or who were vaccinated earlier during the phases of
our vaccination rollout.  
  
In the context of these concerns, we are planning for Americas —
Americans to receive booster shots, starting next month, to maximize
vaccine-induced protection.  Our plan is to protect the American people
and to stay ahead of this virus.  
  
Before I turn things over to Dr. Fauci to share the immunologic data
informing our decisions, I want to emphasize one final thing: Our
vaccines continue to offer the best protection against severe COVID
illness.  While we are still learning about how these vaccines perform
over time and how long they will last against emerging variants, one
thing is very clear: Getting vaccinated can keep you out of the
hospital; getting vaccinated can save your life.  
  
In areas with low vaccination coverage, we continue to hear far too many
heartbreaking stories of people who did not get vaccinated only then to
get severe COVID-19.  In these areas, the data are showing us that the
more people who are in the hospital, and tragically more people are
dying of COVID-19.   
  
We are currently averaging over 500 COVID-19 deaths per day, and these
remain largely preventable.  If you are still unvaccinated, please get
vaccinated.  The single best action you can take to protect yourself and
others is to simply get vaccinated in the first place.  
  
And now I will turn things over to Dr. Fauci.  
  
DR. FAUCI:  Thank you very much, Dr. Walensky.  What I’d like to do over
the next couple of minutes is provide you with the immunological basis
that would support a third booster mRNA immunization.  I will make four
points and show you representative data from each of these.  
  
First, antibody levels decline over time.  Second, higher levels of
antibody are associated with higher levels of efficacy of the vaccine.  
  
Third, higher levels of antibody may be required to protect against the
problematic Delta variant.   
  
And finally, a booster mRNA immunization increases antibody titers by at
least tenfold and likely much more.   
  
Next slide.   
  
So, let’s take the first concept: that antibody levels decline over time
— in this case, following two mRNA immunizations.  And that’s regardless
of the variant.   
  
So, if you look at the horizontal axis, at day 29 is when you get your
second shot.  You can see the level of antibodies go up at 43 days.  But
look what happens at 119 and 209 days: Regardless of the variant
involved, the antibody levels against those variants decline over
time.   
  
Next slide.   
  
Next concept: that higher levels of antibody are associated with higher
levels of vaccine efficacy.  This is often referred to as an “immune
correlate.”  And this is a paper recently published in a preprint
server.  And what it shows is that a model of vaccine efficacy — in this
case, based on the Moderna phase three trial — showed that four weeks
after the second dose, that what you have is a serum neutralization
titer of 1 to 100 — which goes up from the vertical red line — that
gives you an efficacy of 91 percent.   
  
But if you look at the dark black line going from left to right: As you
go further up, you get a higher degree of efficacy.  So, the higher the
neutralization titer, the higher degree of efficacy of the vaccine in
this model.  
  
Next slide.   
  
Third issue: Higher levels of antibody may be required to protect
against Delta.  And I’m showing you data now both from Moderna, on the
left, and a paper in the New England Journal — has very similar data
from Pfizer.   
  
So, if you look at the left panel, what you’re measuring is
neutralization titer after two doses of the immunization.  And the open
circles are the same people as in the pink circles.  And you’re looking
at the fact that the immuniza- — the neutralization titer required to
neutralize the standard prototype D614G, which was the original variant,
is — clearly, the titer is much lower — as you see it all goes down in
pink when you’re dealing with Delta.   
  
Next slide.   
  
The next concept — and that gets to the booster: The booster mRNA
immunization increases antibody titers by at least tenfold.  These are
data from Moderna, but Pfizer has announced very similar data.   
  
The bottom line is: If you look first at the left panel, the first
column is looking at the antibody — the antibody titers just before the
third dose, and then 15 days after the third dose is shown right next to
it, that says “D15.”  As you can see a remarkable increase in titers
against the 614G, the B.1.351, the P.1.  And in the Pfizer data, which
you’d expect would be very, very similar to the Moderna, it was also
against the Delta variant.   
  
So, you get a dramatic increase in antibody titers when you do a third
immunization dose.  
  
Last slide.   
  
And so, in summary, the current immunological data that indicate that
antibody levels decline over time; higher levels of antibody are
associated with a higher level of efficacy; higher levels of antibody
may be required to protect against Delta; and, as I showed you on this
former slide, a booster mRNA immunization increases antibody titers by
multiple-fold.   
  
All of this support the use of a third booster mRNA immunization to
increase the overall level of protection.   
  
We’ll go back to you now, Jeff.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Thank you, Drs. Murthy, Fauci, and Walensky.   
  
I want to be clear: The President’s whole-of-government vaccination
effort is ready to get every American who needs one a booster shot.   
  
Pending FDA and ACIP approvals, boosters will be available starting the
week of September 20th.   
  
The plan is for the rule to simple: Get your booster shot eight months
after you got your <s>first</s> \[sic\] — second shot.  I apologize.  
  
So, if you got your second shot on February 1st, you can get a booster
starting on October 1st.  If you got your second shot on March 12th, you
can get your booster starting on November 12th, and so on.  
  
Thanks to the aggressive actions we have taken to establish our
vaccination program, it will be just as easy and convenient to get a
booster shot as it is to get a first shot today.  
  
We have enough vaccine supply for every American.  And you’ll be able to
get a booster at roughly 80,000 places across the country, including
over 40,000 local pharmacies.  In fact, 90 percent of Americans have a
vaccine site within five miles of where they live.   
  
And importantly, boosters will be free, regardless of immigration or
health insurance status — no ID or insurance required.   
  
So, the bottom line is that we are prepared for boosters and we will hit
the ground running.   
  
In the weeks ahead, we’ll continue working closely with states,
healthcare providers, pharmacies, and national and community-based
organizations to ensure Americans know they should get a booster shot
eight months after their second shot.  
  
And we will be laser-focused on getting boosters to long-term care
facilities to make sure residents and staff get their shots and are safe
and protected.  
  
Importantly, as we continue to vaccinate Americans, we will maintain our
focus abroad, as we know this virus knows no borders.  
  
We have already shipped more than 115 million vaccine doses to 80
different countries — more vaccine doses donated than all the other
countries in the world combined.  And just this week, we started
shipping the half a billion Pfizer doses that the U.S. pledged to
purchase and donate to 100 low- and lower-middle-income countries in
need.  
  
And in the coming weeks and months, we will do even more to lead the
global vaccination efforts, accelerating our work to build vaccine
manufacturing and production capacity both here in the U.S. and in other
countries.  
  
Our wartime effort will continue doing everything we can to get even
more people vaccinated both here at home and around the world.  We can
and must do both at the same time because that’s what it’s going to take
to end this pandemic.  And we will not stop until we get the job done.  
  
With that, let’s open it up for questions.  
  
MODERATOR:  Thanks, Jeff.  And as a reminder, please keep your question
to one question.  There are many today.   
  
First, let’s go to Lev Facher at STAT News.  
  
Q    Hi, folks.  Thanks, as always, for doing the briefing.  This is a
Mike Ryan quote from a WHO briefing earlier today about booster shots. 
“If we think about this in terms of an analogy, we’re planning to hand
out extra lifejackets to people who already have lifejackets.”   
  
And I’m curious — I know you’ve emphasized — all of you — that this is a
false choice: vaccinating Americans versus vaccinating the rest of the
world.  But could you explain how there isn’t finite vaccine capacity
and how booster shots for Americans does not, at this moment, come at
the expense of first vaccine or second vaccine doses for folks elsewhere
in the world?  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  So, let me — let me go first, and then, Dr. Murthy, if you
want to add anything.  
  
Look, to end this pandemic, we have to protect the American people and
we have to continue to do more and more to vaccinate the world.  Both
are critical.  And we’re already proving that we can protect our own
people here at home as we help others.   
  
Just to give you some data here: In the months of June and July, the
U.S. administered 50 million shots here in the United States and we
shipped more than 100 million to other countries.   
  
As I said, the 115 million doses that we’ve already donated is more than
all the other countries combined.  And during the coming months, when we
talk about booster shots, we expect to give about 100 million boosters
in the United States.  And at the same time, we will be donating more
than 200 million — twice that number — additional doses to other
countries on our way to donating more than 600 million vaccine.  
  
So, we are continuing to serve, as the President has said, as an arsenal
for vaccines for the world.  And you’ll see us do more and more.  This
builds on our support of the TRIPS waiver; our commitment to COVAX,
where we are the largest contributor; the QUAD partnership, which we
helped to establish, which is on track to produce at least a billion
doses of COVID vaccine in India for the Asia region by the end of 2022;
and our work to support vaccine manufacturing in Africa by providing
financing to a South African business to bolster manufacturing capacity
to produce more than 500 million doses.  And we’re just going to keep
going and going and going.  
  
So, this is a situation where we’re going to do both: We’re going to
both protect the American people and we’re going to do more and more to
help vaccinate the world.   
  
Dr. Murthy.  
  
SURGEON GENERAL MURTHY:  Well, thanks, Jeff.  And, Lev, good to hear
your question.  I appreciate it.   
  
Look, I do not accept the idea that we have to choose between America
and the world.  We clearly see our responsibility to both, and that
we’ve got to do everything we can to protect people here at home while
recognizing that clamping down the epidemic — the pandemic across the
world and getting people vaccinated is going to be key to preventing the
rise of future variants.  We know that.  We see that clearly.  And we
believe we have to work on both fronts, as we have been.  
  
But, Lev, when we see data that is giving us, essentially, indications
that protection is starting to diminish — in terms of mild to moderate
disease — when we recognize that if this trajectory continues, that
people who are well protected today may see more vulnerability in the
future, we have to act.  The science tells us that, our clinical
judgment tells us that, and that was the collective decision of the top
public health and medical experts in this administration.  
  
So, again, we will do everything possible to protect people in our
country.  That’s why we’re announcing this booster plan.  But we will
also continue to accelerate our efforts to vaccinate the rest of the
world.  We take that responsibility very seriously.   
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Next question please.  
  
MODERATOR:  Cheyenne Haslett at ABC News.  
  
Q    Hi.  Thanks for taking my question.  How realistic is that
September 20th launch date, given that we haven’t seen the official EUA
requests from Pfizer or Moderna yet?  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  That is the date that we’re working toward.  And as we’ve
said, that is obviously pending both the FDA’s approval and the ACIP’s
recommendation.  So that is the date that we are prepared for, the
beginning of the week of September 20th  
  
Next question.  
  
MODERATOR:  Jeremy Diamond.  CNN.  
  
Q    Hey there.  Thanks for taking my question.  First of all, why did
you guys decide not to limit this to older and more at-risk Americans,
and simply say that “all vaccinated people will need a booster shot
after eight months”?  
  
And secondly, you say in the statement that the protection against
severe disease, hospitalization, and death could diminish.  How certain
are you about that?  And are you saying over time that you do not
believe these vaccines will continue to be highly effective at
preventing hospitalization and death?  Thanks.   
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Let’s start with you, Dr. Murthy.  
  
SURGEON GENERAL MURTHY:  Well, thanks, Jeremy, for that question.  Look,
first, I would say that when we look at the data, we see a reduction in
protection against mild to moderate disease across age groups, and that
was an important part of why we made this recommendation for all
adults.  We want to protect all adults in our country from the worst
effects of COVID-19.   
  
But our plan does prioritize the most vulnerable.  If you look at how we
began vaccinating people, Jeremy, over the — at the beginning of the
vaccination effort, we prioritized healthcare workers, long-term care
facility residents, and the elderly.  And those are exactly the same
populations that we will be starting with.   
  
So, we do prioritize the most vulnerable, and we think that’s going to
be essential, you know, in our goal to ultimately to protect the country
and save the most lives.   
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Next question.  
  
MODERATOR:  Alice Park at Time.  
  
Q    Yes, just wanting to ask again, Jeff, if you could just provide
some more details on the plan for administering the booster shots. 
You’re going to have to reach the same number of people as in the
current campaign, and yet many of the federal mass vaccination sites
have closed.  So, does that mean we can expect to see more doses shipped
to doctors’ offices, pharmacies, smaller clinics?  And will states
continue to be the intermediary for managing that and distributing
that?  
  
And secondly, for Dr. Fauci, can you tell us — you focused a lot on the
data looking at antibody responses to vaccines.  Can you tell us what
we’ve learned about the T cell response and what role that plays in any
decision to recommend boosters — or, you know, continue to recommend
boosters in the next year or even years to come?  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  So, the first question: You know, there are 80,000 sites
across the country.  As I mentioned, 90 percent of Americans live within
five miles of a site.  The booster will be administered at the
eight-month mark — beginning at the eight-month mark.   
  
We’re going to be working very closely, as we have throughout, with
governors and local and state officials to make sure that we have the
number of places to — for people to get vaccinated in a convenient way,
enough vaccinators in the field.  FEMA stands ready to help in any way. 
As I mentioned, that reimbursement has been extended — 100 percent
reimbursement.  
  
So, we will make sure that it is convenient and easy for all Americans
to get their free vaccine, their booster shot at their eight — at or
around their eight-month mark.  
  
Over to you, Dr. Fauci.  
  
DR. FAUCI:  Yeah, thank you for that question, Alice.  There — no doubt
T cells will play a role — very likely — in not preventing initial
infection, but in the progression of disease in the — in the situation
that T cells usually do in eliminating or blocking against infected
cells.   
  
The issue is that they are not as easy, at all, to measure in the
standpoint of large volumes of cohorts, and we will continue to study
the T cell response.   
  
But the important slide that I showed was the correlate of protection
slide where you show there, no doubt, was an increase in protection of
the antibody as you got the titer higher and higher.  
  
So, based on that, that would be the most easily — and actually most
common and, very likely, the most appropriate measurement of a correlate
of immunity.  And for that reason, that was one of the issues that
swayed us towards the relationship between titer of antibody and linking
that to the next-to-last slide, where I showed you could dramatically
increase the titer of antibody by a boost that is at the third boost
months later.  And if you looked at that, the increase was really rather
substantial.  
  
But again, not to downplay the ultimate potential importance of T cells,
but if you look at the relationship between antibody titer and vaccine
efficacy, it looks pretty good.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Next question, please.  
  
MODERATOR:  Weijia, at CBS.  
  
Q    Hi, thanks so much for taking my question.  If — it sounds like
effectiveness begins to wane sooner than eight months.  And please
correct me if I’m wrong.  So, if the supply is not an issue, can you
walk us through the science of how you landed on eight months, please? 
Thanks.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Why don’t we start with you, Dr. Murthy?  And then, Dr.
Walensky or Dr. Fauci, if you have anything to add.  
  
DR. MURTHY:  Sure.  So, thank you, Weijia, for that — for that
question.  So, let me talk you through how we were looking at this.   
  
We did see that around the six-month mark in the data, you start to see
increases in mild-to-moderate infection.  But we know that the most
important purpose of the vaccine is to keep us out of the hospital and
to save our life.  It’s to prevent against hospitalizations and
death.   
  
And fortunately, we’re seeing that still holding at a high level, which
is good news.  But our anticipation is that if the trajectory that we
are seeing continues, then we will likely see, in the future, an
increase in breakthrough hospitalizations and breakthrough deaths.  And
that’s why we used our judgement, Weijia, to see when to make a
determination of what that point may be, and that’s how we came to the
eight-month mark.   
  
I want to be clear, though, there is — there’s nothing magical about
this number.  Could it have been one week earlier, one week later?  This
is where judgment comes in, and it’s why we’ve put so much time and
thought into this decision, and why we pulled the best public health and
medical minds from together around the department to look at the data
and discuss it a number of times, and then, ultimately, to come to that
determination.  
  
And last thing, let me just say this, Weijia: We have said, over the
last several months, that we are looking at the data closely and, when
we see a signal, that we will let the public know and tell them what our
plan is.  And that’s exactly what we’re doing today.   
  
We put the best minds together in the administration, and we looked at
the best data that we had.  We saw a signal, and now we’re sharing our
assessment with the public with a plan for how to make sure that the
protection people still have today from the vaccine will continue in the
future.  
  
DR. WALENSKY:  And, maybe, if I might, Jeff, just add: You know, another
piece of data that we’ve been looking at is our international colleagues
who are ahead of us both in the Delta surge as well as have vaccinated
large — a few weeks ahead of us in terms of large portions of their
population that have been vaccinated.  And data we’re seeing from our
international colleagues, specifically — and especially Israel — have
demonstrated a worsening of infections amongst vaccinated people over
time.   
  
And so, we are — we remain concerned about that, as we see in the
context of Delta variant, some breakthroughs that are occurring and
decreased vaccine effectiveness that is occurring in the context of
infection.  We are watching other countries — the experience of other
countries carefully, in concern that we, too, will see what Israel is
seeing with — which is worsening infections over time.  
  
DR. FAUCI:  Yeah.  And, Jeff, one other thing: It has been such a —
almost reproducible phenomenon with COVID-19.  If you wait for something
bad to happen before you respond to it, you find yourselves — you’re
considerably behind your real full capability of being response.  So, as
Vivek said in the introduction, you want to stay ahead of the virus.  
  
And if you look at the indications that we’ve had, including with what
Dr. Walensky just mentioned, you don’t want to find yourself behind,
playing catch-up.  Better stay ahead of it than chasing after it.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Next question, please.  
  
MODERATOR:  Felicia Schwartz at the Wall Street Journal.   
  
Q    Hi.  Thanks.  What will it mean to be fully vaccinated once people
are eligible for boosters?  Will it be three shots or two shots?  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Dr. Murthy.  
  
DR. MURTHY:  Well, so, on that question, right now, I think what’s very
important for people to know is that if you’ve gotten both shots of your
mRNA vaccine, you are fully vaccinated right now; you have full — you
have a high degree of protection against the worst outcomes of
COVID-19.   
  
But our recommendation — and down the line, again, pending the advice
and the review of the FDA and ACIP — the Advisory Community on
Immunization Practices — is that we believe that that third dose will
ultimately be needed to provide the fullest and continual extent of
protection that we think people need from the virus.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Next question.  
  
MODERATOR:  Josh Wingrove, Bloomberg.  
  
Q    Hi, there.  Dr. Walensky, you addressed this earlier a little bit,
but I’d like you to expand on what has changed.   
  
I mean, five days ago, with the decision on immunocompromised people for
whom this is pretty different scenario — those are people who didn’t
have great protection in the first place — as opposed to having waning
protections, you made a point of saying, repeatedly, that booster shots
weren’t needed for the time.  And now, five days later, not only are
they being announced, but they’re being announced for everyone.  Is it
the Israeli data, in particular, that changed your mind?  Why the change
of position over five days?  
  
And can you also clarify — Dr. Murthy said that this is only adults. 
Pfizer was EUA for 16-plus in December, so we’re not that far away from
16- and 17-year-olds being eligible.  Should they get a booster when
they are at eight months, or should they not get a booster when they are
at eight months?  Thank you.  
  
DR. WALENSKY:  Thank you, Josh.  And thanks for actually noting that
clarification.   
  
So we made — based on the FDA review and ACIP and, exactly as you said,
the note that immunocompromised people actually never got, really, a
good immune protection to begin with, we noted that, as of now, we
should be offering a third dose of vaccine to our immunocompromised pe-
— anyone immunocompromised is eligible for vaccination.   
  
However, what we’ve seen over the data that really has been analyzed
over the last week or two from data through July — because it was
important to really understand the impact of the Delta variant here — we
are starting to see waning immunity with regard to symptomatic
infection.  Not severe infection, but symptomatic infection.   
  
So we’re staying ahead of this virus.  And what we are saying is: We are
planning for — for a time in — you know, September 20th — to say: As we
are following, symptomatic infection is waning.  We have not yet seen
that severe disease and hospitalizations is really waning.  That’s
remaining relatively stable.  But we’re looking at other countries, and
as we do so, we’re seeing worsening outcomes in other countries.  
  
And in the context of all of these studies — different cohorts,
different settings across the country, and our international colleagues
— we’ve made the decision to plan for these booster doses.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Dr. Murthy, do you want to address the 16-, 17-year-olds?  
  
SURGEON GENERAL MURTHY:  Sure.  So it’s a good question.  And when it
comes to 16- and 17-year-olds and minors in general, we are going to let
the FDA weigh in on that; obviously, do their thorough review; and then,
based on their recommendations, on ACIP’s recommendations, we will have
guidance to share for those who are under 18.  
  
I also just want to underscore one thing, to your question, about the
last five days and our message.  I want to be very clear that what we
have said before, which is still true today, is we do not believe that
the general population needs booster shots today.  That was true
yesterday.  It was true five days ago.  It was true a few — a few weeks
ago.  
  
We are announcing a plan for the future, and that’s extremely
important.  We want people to understand that this is a plan for the
future, and it’s based on an assessment of data, including recent data
that we have just come across in — over the last few days.  
  
We have said from the beginning, “When we see a signal, we will tell
you,” and that is what we are doing.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Next question.  
  
MODERATOR:  Last question.  Let’s go to Shannon Pettypiece at NBC.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Kevin, we’re not hearing a question.   
  
MODERATOR:  We are not.  All right, sorry, Shannon.  We’ll go to Brenda
Goodman at WebMD, and circle back.  
  
Q    Oh, hey, can you guys hear me now?  Oh, I’m sorry.  It’s —  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  You’ve got to a bit of —  
  
Q    I found myself (inaudible).  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  You’ve got a bit — bit of an echo.  Go ahead, please.   
  
Q    Okay.  Sorry about that, guys.  I just wanted to find out — and I
think, maybe, you answered this a bit — but why are you sort of skipping
the typical FDA review process?  I know you’re saying this is pending
FDA review, but not — why not wait until the FDA has reviewed the
safety, the efficacy, and we’ve gotten that Advisory Committee
recommendation?   
  
And are you worried at all about adding to vaccine hesitancy by trying
to get ahead of that by making this announcement now?  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Dr. Murthy.  
  
SURGEON GENERAL MURTHY:  Well, I’m glad — I’m glad you asked that
question.  And I want to be very clear: We are not skipping the very
important FDA and ACIP process here.  They have an incredibly important
role to play in evaluating safety and making recommendations for
vaccines.   
  
We respect that, we honor that, and that will be a part of this process
as well.  But the reason that we are not waiting for many more weeks to
announce this — and it falls into two — two buckets — one is
transparency.  
  
We have told the public: When we see a signal in the data, we will tell
them about when we are concerned, when we think boosters may be required
down the line.  And we are fulfilling that promise today.   
  
The second reason is we also want to ensure that people and states and
localities and the public more broadly can plan.  You can’t turn on a
booster effort, you know, with a flip of a switch.  You know, you have
to lay the groundwork.  We’ve got to make sure people understand this,
that we communicate often about it, and so on.  When we’re ready to go
and start offering boosters, everybody understands what has to be done
and who needs to be boosted.  And that is why we are announcing this
plan in advance today.  
  
DR. WALENSKY:  Maybe I’ll just add that we are very much following what
ACIP provided.  Because they initially advised us on who should be
getting vaccinated first, and it is those people who will be — the
long-term care facilities, healthcare workers, vulnerable populations —
it is those people who will be first eligible again.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Okay, so why don’t we take the last question, Kevin.   
  
MODERATOR:  All right, Brenda.   
  
Q    Thanks.  I just have a question a little bit to do with the
rationale here.  So, do you have any evidence from the U.S. or from
other countries that waning immunity is playing a role in transmission
of Delta because it’s so highly contagious?  Do you anticipate that
boosters will help to slow the spread?  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Dr. Fauci, you want to go first there?  
  
DR. FAUCI:  Yeah.  Thank you, Jeff, and thank you for that question.  
  
Transmissibility is a bit more tricky than looking at a clinical
phenomenon such as infection, seriousness of disease, and
hospitalization.   
  
It is entirely conceivable — and we will be looking at that — that when
you boost and have a high level — and as I showed you on the
next-to-last slide, the increase with a boost is really quite striking:
multiple-fold increase — that it is conceivable that that would be
important in lowering the level of virus in the nasopharynx, which could
have an impact on transmission.  
  
I certainly hope that’s the case.  If it is, then you could really get
multiple benefits from doing this.  You can get benefits for disease,
severity of disease, and then, ultimately, infection and
transmission.   
  
But the bottom line, with full transparency: We don’t know that right
now.   
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Well, we appreciate all the good questions, and we look
forward to the next briefing.   
  
Thank you.  
  
11:59 A.M. EDT

To view the COVID Press Briefing slides,
visit: <https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/08/COVID-Press-Briefing_18Aug2021-v1.pdf>
