---
category: press-briefings
date: '2021-08-09'
modified_time: 2021-08-09 17:22:20-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/08/09/on-the-record-press-call-by-national-security-council-senior-director-for-the-western-hemisphere-juan-gonzalez-on-official-travel-to-brazil-and-argentina/
published_time: 2021-08-09 17:22:18-04:00
title: "On-the-Record Press Call by National Security Council Senior Director for\
  \ the Western Hemisphere Juan Gonzalez on Official Travel to Brazil and\_Argentina"
---
 
2:32 P.M. EDT

MODERATOR:  Good afternoon, everyone.  Welcome to a briefing to discuss
the National Security Advisor’s trip to Brazil and Argentina.  We
weren’t able to be joined by the National Security Advisor today, so we
are joined by National Security Council Senior Director for the Western
Hemisphere Juan Gonzalez.  
  
This call is on the record, and the contents of today’s call are
embargoed until the end of the call.  We’ll start with remarks from
Juan, and then we’ll open it up for question-and-answer.  
  
With that, I’ll turn it over to Juan for some introductory remarks.  
  
MR. GONZALEZ:  Great.  Thanks, Kedenard.  So, first, I want to apologize
for not being Jake Sullivan, and — but then, even though this was the
National Security Advisor’s first visit to Latin America and the
Caribbean, I wanted to reflect briefly on just what has been a very
active six and half months of work by pointing out a few things — not
all-inclusive, but I think they’re worth highlighting how Brazil and
Argentina fit in this broader context.  
  
The first is: Obviously, in February, the President and the Canadian
Prime Minister launched the Roadmap for a Renewed U.S.-Canada
Partnership to revitalize our historic alliance through a
whole-of-government effort against the COVID-19 pandemic, a partnership
on climate change, bolstered cooperation on defense and security, and a
reaffirmed commitment to diversity, equity, and justice.  
  
Since that meeting, our departments and agencies have been meeting and
engaging regularly to execute on that plan, and it was part of the
discussion of the President and the Prime Minister’s discussion — or
phone call — last week.  
  
Secondly, during his virtual meeting in March with Mexican President
Andrés Manuel López Obrador, the President laid out a vision for
bilateral cooperation with Mexico, which can be summarized in the
President’s own words during the on-the-record remarks at the beginning
of the meeting where he said that “The United States and Mexico are
stronger when we stand together.”  
  
And, you know, while our cooperation on migration occupies the front
pages, we’ve been working actively with Mexico to repair the bilateral
law enforcement cooperation that broke down over the last four years.  I
personally travelled to Mexico in May to kick off a dialogue with the
Mexicans on this.  
  
We’ve also been working to revitalize our bilateral economic ties.  And
out of the Vice President’s visit — her first to the region — there was
an agreement to hold the U.S.-Mexico High Level Economic Dialogue in
September.  So we’ll have announcements on that soon.  
  
And then, of course, you know, it’s no — it’s not by error that we’ve
shared over 4 million vaccines with Mexico, given our interest in
promoting and supporting Mexico’s economic recovery.  
  
We also submitted to Congress our strategies to address the root causes
of migration from Central America and collaborative migration
strategies, and we’re going to be working with Congress to demonstrate
that we’re executing on those in the weeks and months to come.  
  
On Venezuela, the administration provided Temporary Protected Status to
Venezuelans already in the United States, and now we are working with
the international community to pave the way forward toward negotiations
that lead to free and fair elections in the country.  
  
On Cuba, since the July 11th protests, we have been working to hold the
regime accountable while, at the same time, doing everything we can to
support the Cuban people.  And in that regard, we’ve been doing a
regular pace of sanctions of individuals involved in the crackdown
against the July 11th protestors, and then doing everything to support
the families of those who have been detained by increasing funding,
working to expand Internet connectivity on the island, and a series of
other things.  So that continues.  
  
And then, in Haiti, following the July 7th assassination of President
Jovenel Moïse, we’ve marshalled a robust response to support the
investigation and support the Haitian National Police’s efforts to
address the country’s security situation, provided 500,000 vaccines to
Haiti with more on the way, and we are working in unison with the
international community to promote dialogue between political actors and
civil society in support of Haitian solutions to Haitian challenges.  
  
I would say our highest priority in the Americas, of course, is managing
and ending the COVID-19 pandemic and contributing to an equitable
recovery, which is why, out of the 110 million vaccines we’ve shared
globally, nearly half of those have gone to the countries of Latin
America and the Caribbean. So this is just a sampling of an active pace
of engagement by this administration, and it is reflective of the
President’s vision that a “secure, democratic, and middle-class
hemisphere” is in the national interests of the United States.  
  
You know, specifically with regard to Jake Sullivan’s visit, our
partnership with nations as diverse as Brazil and Argentina — on
everything from climate change, to promoting a green economic recovery,
to winning the fight against the pandemic, to securing the hemispheric
consensus in favor of democracy — is not just fundamental to the region,
but to the future prosperity and security of the United States.  
  
Brazil and Argentina are the largest economies in South — and in South
America.  They bring significant resources to bear, technical know-how,
industrial capacity to build resilient supply chains.  So, we covered
the gamut of issues with them, from elections to 5G, to OECD, to NATO,
to climate.  You name it, it was something that was covered in the span
of the visit.  
  
So, I’ll leave it there and then happy to dive into specifics during the
Q&A session.   
  
Q    The U.S. announced its support for Brazil to become a global
partner of NATO during the visit of the National Security Advisor.  This
comes after days — several days that President Bolsonaro was saying that
there might not be elections and that the elections were rigged.  How do
you reconcile these two things — these strikes against elections and
rewarding Brazil with a military partnership?  
  
MR. GONZALEZ:  So, okay, that’s a good question, Patrícia.  Look, the
first thing is — so the — the offered support for NATO global partner is
something that begun under the previous administration, and we conveyed
our interest to, you know, continue supporting Brazil in becoming a NATO
global partner.  
  
I would say there is — there have been also reports that have argued
that there was an exchange on Huawei for U.S. support for that.  At no
point there was a quid pro quo, no exchange of a favorable position on
Huawei for U.S. support becoming a NATO global partner.  They are
separate issues.  And, entirely, we don’t link these discussions.   
  
We do support Brazil’s aspirations as a NATO global partner as a way to
deepen security cooperation over time between Brazil and the NATO
countries.  And it basically provides for increased access to training
and education, and increases interoperability.  
  
But, look, on the issue of elections, we were also very direct in
expressing great confidence in the ability of the Brazilian institutions
to carry out a free and fair election with proper safeguards in place to
guard against fraud.  And we stressed the importance of not undermining
confidence in that process, especially since there were no signs of
fraud in prior elections.   
  
So, our point here is that we can — we have a broad and institutional
relationship with Brazil.  We can engage on matters of security
cooperation, economic cooperation, and then — and still be very clear in
terms of our support for Brazilians being the ones that really determine
the outcome of their — of their elections.   
  
And those conversations are ones we had, and we were very candid in
terms of our — our views, particularly given some of the parallels, you
know, with calling elections “invalid” before their time — something
that obviously is — parallels with what’s happened here in the United
States.  
  
Q    Mr. Juan Gonzalez — I would like to ask him if there was any
request from the United States to the Argentinian government, to the
government of Alberto Fernández, for Argentina support most the
democratization of Cuba, Venezuela, or Nicaragua in terms of, for
example, any declaration against the repression of the Cuban people by
the government, in the case of Cuba, and if there was any request in
that sense for Argentina to participate in the dialogue that the
opposition and the Maduro’s regime will start in Mexico this week.  
  
MR. GONZALEZ:  Great.  So, look, on the question of democracy and human
rights in the region, Jake Sullivan mentioned, just as he did in Brazil,
in Argentina, in the conversations with President Fernández, with
Foreign Minister Solá, with Gustavo Beliz, and others that — you know,
that we have a — we really have to break through the left-and-right
mindset when it comes to promoting democratic values and that we need to
really focus on a conversation with regard to democracies and countries
that are not democracies if we are to ensure that, as a region, we
maintain this international consensus in favor of democracy.  
  
So, you know, I think we underscored the importance of breaking through
this ideological problem that exists in the region, both in the left and
the right, when it comes to democratic values and that, you know, we did
raise the issue of Cuba, Nicaragua, Venezuela as one where we’re urging
all countries, not just Argentina, to stand up for those ideals, given
in particular the history that Argentina has suffered in the past.  
  
And so, it’s somewhere where there was a — I think a very constructive
conversation with the Argentines’ willingness to find areas of common
ground and an interest in them being — in being helpful.  I mean, I
think they made clear that they’re not always going to agree with us on
how — on matters of approach, but that we’re going to continue to have a
very open and fluid dialogue when it comes to these matters.   
  
And, you know, we believe that Argentina is a country that can speak to
governments of both the left and the right, and can play an important
role in encouraging the defense of democratic values. Particularly, I
think, when you see in Nicaragua, which has been, you know, a move — a
very kind of concerning move toward authoritarianism in the run-up to
the November elections.  
  
And I think you’d also asked about the dialogue, sorry, on Venezuela. 
What I would say is — is that we’re not — we don’t — we’re not the ones
that get to pick who is seated at the table in the dialogue.  I think
that’s a question, really, for the Unity Platform, led by the — those
Venezuelans that are in favor of democracy and the regime that is on the
other side of that equation.   
  
And, you know, I think our perspective — which has been one that is
articulated between the United States, Canada, and the European Union —
is that the international community is going to continue to push for
free and fair elections, and we’re going to use everything we can to
press the regime to take concrete steps in that direction.  
  
Q    Hi, good afternoon.  Thank you.  I wanted to see if you could
please elaborate on the message that you sent President Bolsonaro with
regard to Brazil’s upcoming elections.  Did NSA Sullivan warn the
President not to interfere in the elections?  And how worried are you
about President Bolsonaro’s efforts, for example, to delegitimize
electronic voting?  
  
And secondly, if I may, I was wondering if NSA Sullivan is planning any
more visits to Latin America this year and, if so, which countries would
be a priority.   
  
MR. GONZALEZ:  Great.  On the latter, I have nothing to announce, but I
know that he’s — you know, remains very engaged and interested in the
region.  So, you know, I think we should expect more — obviously, more
engagement.  
  
On the previous question, look, I’ll say again that we have confidence
in Brazilian institutions to carry out free and fair elections with the
proper safeguards in place to guard against fraud.  And so, in a meeting
with President Bolsonaro, as well with others, we made this case that we
are not concerned about Brazilian institutions to carry out free and
fair elections.  
  
But, you know, obviously, as you — we’ve obviously, both here in the
United States but abroad, encouraged to make sure that there are proper
safeguards in place, because ultimately what we want to do is ensuring
that the voters of each country are the ones that determine the outcome.
 And we want to make it easier for people to vote and for that vote to
be counted.  
  
And so, we were very clear that that’s — you know, that was the view of
the United States.  And it is our view, whether it’s Brazil, whether
it’s Argentina, whether it’s, you know, Mexico, Colombia — it doesn’t
matter the country or where they are on the political spectrum.  For us,
the bottom line is that the international consensus in favor of
democracy that has existed in the region for so long depends on
empowering voters to be the ones to decide the future of their
country.  
  
Q    Hi, Juan.  Thank you for doing that.  Just one more about the
conversation about elections with President Bolsonaro and — and a quick
other question.  So, has President Bolsonaro said that he believes that
former President Trump won last year’s election in the U.S.?  And if so,
how does that change the way the relationship of the Biden
administration with the Bolsonaro government will go on?  
  
And a quick second question, if I may, is: What is the next step in the
relationship with Brazil?  Is there any request or sign that you are
expecting from the Brazilian government after this visit?  
  
MR. GONZALEZ:  Yeah, so — look, without getting into the contents of
what was a government-to-government conversation, you know, which
obviously are privileged by nature, I will say there were some reporting
that was inaccurate about Donald Trump coming up in the conversation. 
That never came up.   
  
There was — you know, the issue of elections was discussed, but really
the shift — I think the crux of the discussion was — covered everything
from climate change and where, really, Brazil has an opportunity to be,
I think, the leader, the — or the, kind of — the champion or the hero of
the COP.  And we urge higher levels of ambition and a clear
demonstration of efforts to combat deforestation ahead of the COP.   
  
And we talked about ways that we would work on that together.  We talked
about Brazil’s aspirations to accede to the OECD, and we think it is
important for Brazil to create favorable conditions.  
  
(Inaudible), obviously, the climate issue is something that we go back
to.  We look to not just the NATO global partner conversation, but we
talked about U.S.-Brazil security cooperation as an area of opportunity
not just bilaterally, but regionally, given that Brazil has had — has a
long history of working with — also with the countries of Africa on
security cooperation.   
  
We talked about Brazil joining the U.N. Security Council, you know,
beginning next year, and the opportunities that presented in terms of
multilateral cooperation.   
  
And we talked about — also we talked about 5G and where we continue to
have concerns about Huawei’s potential role in Brazil’s telecom
infrastructure.  And we’re going to have discussions that prepare on to
— to continue on that front.   
  
A specific point on 5G, and then kind of next steps — to your question:
So, both Brazil and Argentina are preparing to make major investments in
their digital infrastructure.  These investments — everybody talks about
5G, but they’re not only in 5G telecom networks, but also in cloud data
services and fiber-optic cable networks.  The potential development and
economic prosperity impact of these investments, it can be
transformational for these countries.   
  
And our message was fundamentally that we want them to succeed in those
ambitions.  And that to do those — to do so, they need digital
infrastructure that is secure, resilient, cost effective, and that
fosters new domestic players, as Open RAN technologies promised to do so
for 5G in a way that Huawei and, frankly, other providers do not.   
  
Both countries have an opportunity to create innovative domestic
technology companies that support Open RAN deployments, not only for the
domestic market, but also to export around the region and beyond.  And
5G deployments will attract hundreds of billions of dollars of
investment worldwide over the next few years.   
  
And it’s — what we encouraged and offered support is that they have an
opportunity here to build native industries that could make Brazil and
Argentina transformational in how Latin America deploys on 5G and
digital infrastructure.   
  
And so, you know, we underscored, as well, that — I think it’s an
important point that has not been really covered enough — is that Huawei
is facing major challenges to its semiconductor supply chain and will
leave international customers, frankly, high and dry by failing to
deliver on its commitments as it prioritizes China’s domestic 5G
deployment or, best-case scenario, by delivering subpar,
energy-inefficient equipment that is going to be far more expensive to
operate than that of competitors.   
  
So national authorities, telecom operators, and their shareholders
really need to take this into account.  And we agreed to have follow-on
strategic and technical dialogues that look at both the cybersecurity
challenges as well as the significant opportunities at hand.   
  
So, I think if countries embrace Huawei in Latin America, they need to
recognize that Huawei is going to be running into chip shortages and
it’s going to leave, again, consumers high and dry, and could stall the
deployment of what is going to be a very important technology for the
countries of the region.   
  
Our next steps are: We have a series of dialogues.  We have at least
eight dialogues with Brazil.  It allows us an opportunity to engage
actively.  Right now, what we’re focused on is taking concrete steps to
deliver on those dialogues.   
  
And so, we have a lot of homework from the National Security Advisor. 
And the National Security Council is going to be maintaining a very
active pace to make sure that we’re delivering on all the conversations
that we had with both Brazil and Argentina, because we’ve lost over four
years in these countries and we have a lot of time to make up.   
  
Q    Hi, there.  Thank you.  Just wanted to follow up on 5G and Huawei
really quickly.  Did you get any assurances from Brazil that they would
not use Huawei?  Or what was their response to your message over Huawei
as a 5G provider there?  
  
MR. GONZALEZ:  Yeah, so, I mean, they’re focusing on finalizing an
auction, time TB- — to be confirmed.  And they are very focused on
making sure that the auction allows for — creates very high standards
for transparency, but also allows, you know, kind of a level playing
field for market participants.   
  
So, they made no commitments to us on Huawei.  But what we did agree on
is, you know, finding ways for us to support them in developing
potential opportunities for a Brazilian entrant into the market as
something that could really be a market mover in Latin America and the
Caribbean.  
  
I think, right now, the 5G market is essentially an oligopoly.  And it’s
not that we don’t — it’s not that the market is not working, it’s that
there are not enough participants in the market.   
  
And given the size of Brazil’s economy — just the very active nature of
its tech industry, and the interest of private equity, venture capital,
and even, I think, domestic family funds that are looking at
opportunities — there is a huge opportunity here for Brazil to break
into O-RAN and develop its own domestic industry in a way that can
create trends for Latin America and the Caribbean.   
  
Again, O-RAN — as you folks at Bloomberg probably know better than I do
— is a place where you’re basically creating an open infrastructure
where other, you know, either manufacturers or software providers can
engage.  It’s not a one-stop shop, as it is with Huawei and others.   
  
And this is a huge, huge economic and development potential for Latin
America and the Caribbean.  So it’s something that we’re doing because
it’s in our interest to make sure that these — this infrastructure is
safe, it’s transparent, it’s resilient, but also, like I said, one that
fosters new domestic players.   
  
Q    Yes, hey.  Thank you.  What other issues, Mr. Sullivan and
President Fernández discuss?  And did they talk about the IMF program
with Argentina?  
  
MR. GONZALEZ:  Yeah, so they did discuss this.  And, you know, what we
have conveyed is that we are in a very unique situation around the world
and that, as the country with the largest IMF loan, the way that the
institution comes to resolution with Argentina on this will send the
region a message — not just to the region, but to other emerging markets
that are struggling financially and may need to turn to the IMF for
support.   
  
And so, we signaled that, you know, the United States has an interest in
making sure that our, you know, international institutions are
responding to the current challenge, signaled willingness to work with
Argentina on this.  And ultimately, we want to make sure it’s something
that we are not just developing a solution that is specific to
Argentina, but one that sets a precedent for other markets that are
facing similar challenges.   
  
And so, there was a lot of back-and-forth that we had.  Minister Guzmán
joined many — you know, several of those meetings.  We had very detailed
conversations.  And — and so, you know, it was very constructive while,
ultimately, it’s the Department of Treasury that is going to lead those
discussions for the United States.  
  
I got to say that the broader conversation, not specifically to the IMF,
is one where, you know, the — what the — what the President of the
United States is trying to do here is making sure that the U.S.
government is addressing gaps in how the market responds to these sorts
of crises and making sure that we’re investing in workers and working
families.  And in that regard, there’s a lot of coincidence with
Argentina.   
  
And, you know, we’ll have some disagreements on how we each manage our
economies, but that’s — the Argentines are the ones that get to decide
how they manage their economy, and we get to decide how we manage
ours.   
  
But our conversations — on everything from a global minimum tax, to how
our international institutions respond to the current crisis, to how the
United States and Argentina can find areas of cooperation — are ones
where the conversations were constructive, productive, and where there
was a lot of commonalities.  
  
MODERATOR:  Thanks, Juan.  And thanks, Ryan.  With that, we’re going to
conclude the call.  
  
As I mentioned at the top of the call, this is an on-the-record call and
the contents of the call are now lifted.  We’ll send out a transcript as
soon as it’s ready to the participants of the call.  You don’t need to
ask us, we’ll just send it around.  
  
And if any questions, feel free to email me, Kedenard Raymond at the NSC
press team.   
  
Thanks very much, everyone.  Bye-bye.  
  
3:00 P.M. EDT
