---
date: '2024-12-08'
modified_time: 2024-12-08 21:13:19-05:00
published_time: 2024-12-08 21:30:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/12/08/remarks-by-apnsa-jake-sullivan-at-the-2024-reagan-national-defense-forum/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by APNSA Jake Sullivan at the 2024 Reagan National Defense\_Forum"
---
 
The Ronald Reagan Presidential Library  
Simi Valley, California

MS. BREAM:  And thank you, Jake.  I’m glad you made it here this year. 
I know you’ve had to cancel in the past, and it’s a very busy time, so
we appreciate your time that you were able to make it here today. 

MR. SULLIVAN:  Well, thank you for having me. 

MS. BREAM:  Okay, so let’s start with the headlines.  Obviously, minute
by minute, there are new advances by rebel forces in Syria.  Did the
administration see this coming?  Assad doesn’t seem to have the support
he would have 10 years ago from the likes of Russia and Hezbollah and
Iran, who have been weakened.  What’s your take on the current state?

MR. SULLIVAN:  Well, it’s important to start by observing why this is
happening, and it’s really happening for two reasons. 

First, Assad has been brutal and repressive to his own people and
totally intransigent in terms of actually trying to provide a better
life or better future for the people of Syria, and so the people of
Syria are fed up. 

Second, Assad’s backers — Iran, Russia, and Hezbollah — have all been
weakened and distracted, and so he has not had the support from those
three actors that he expected to be able to count on, and has been left
basically naked.  His forces are hollowed out. 

And so, while we saw preparations for a rebel offensive, the speed and
scale of it and the fact that it’s moving so rapidly through the
country, this is a feature of having lost the support of these backers,
because each of them — Iran having been exposed and weakened; Hezbollah
having been badly degraded by Israel; and Russia being ground down in a
war of attrition in the east in Ukraine — none of them are prepared to
provide the kind of support to Assad that they provided in the past.  So
here we are. 

MS. BREAM:  So the primary group leading the insurgence has been
classified as a terrorist group by the U.S.  How worried are you about
what comes next?

MR. SULLIVAN:  Well, it is a source of concern.  I mean, this is a
group, HTS, that has been designated by terrorist — as a terrorist
organization by the United States, that has had elements affiliated with
groups that have American blood on their hands. 

We really think that there are three things we have to be particularly
focused on. 

One, that the fighting in Syria not lead to the resurgence of ISIS.  And
we are going to take steps ourselves directly, and working with the
Syrian Democratic Forces, the Kurds, to ensure that does not happen. 

Two, that our friends in the region — Israel, Jordan, Iraq, others who
border Syria, or who would potentially face spillover effects from Syria
— are strong and secure, and we’re in touch with them every day. 

And three, that this not lead to a humanitarian catastrophe, both in
terms of civilians’ access to lifesaving necessities and in terms of the
protection of religious and ethnic minorities in Syria. 

And we’re going to work with all the players in the region to try to
make sure that we are accomplishing those three goals which are in the
interests and consistent with the values of the United States.

MS. BREAM:  Of course there’s a lot of instability in the region, so how
worried are you about this spilling over the borders?  You mentioned
those bordering countries there.

MR. SULLIVAN:  It is a concern.  I mean, we’ve seen, obviously over the
course of the Syrian civil war, spillovers and refugee flows.  And at
its worst, we saw the explosion of ISIS onto the scene, which not only
led to the fall of cities in Syria, but the fall of cities in Iraq and
pressure on some of our closest partners in the region. 

So, whether it’s from the border with Jordan to the Golan Heights, to
trying to maintain a fragile ceasefire in Lebanon, to that long border
between Syria and Iraq, these are all areas that we have to pay close
attention to, that we have to coordinate closely with our friends on,
and stay vigilant to try to ensure that we contain the potential
violence and instability, that we protect our friends, and that we
ensure that ISIS not get new oxygen out of this that could lead them to
become a greater threat to the United States or our friends. 

MS. BREAM:  What about our troops in the region, the impact on them?

MR. SULLIVAN:  So, we have a presence, both in Iraq and in Syria.  That
presence in Syria is there to work hand in hand with local partners, to
continue to suppress the threat that ISIS has posed, going back many
years now.  And we’ve had significant progress in that fight, just even
in the last few months.  Major players taken off the battlefield. 
Large-scale degradation of those ISIS forces. 

But of course, an event like this happens, and ISIS immediately looks to
take advantage.  And we have seen reports of ISIS trying, out in the
Syrian Badiya, the desert, to try to reconstitute to a certain extent. 

So we will continue to take action against that.  And we will continue
to make sure that force protection, the protection of our service
members who are serving at a range of bases in eastern Syria, is the
paramount concern from the President on down. 

Now, the threat to those service members is not just from ISIS or from
this violence; it is also from Iranian-backed Shia militia groups who
themselves could try to take advantage of this. 

And so, we are also doing what we believe we need to do to prepare for,
deter, and protect against any potential attacks from that group of
actors, which, of course, we have seen over the course of the past few
years, and which we, under the Biden administration, have responded to
at several points with direct strikes against those forces, both in
Syria and in Iraq. 

MS. BREAM:  So, a lot of the conversation this week is about the
transition to a new administration, a second Trump administration.  He’s
weighed in on social media, as he often likes to do.  I’ll get you to
the all-caps part of this post in which he says, “THE UNITED STATES
SHOULD HAVE NOTHING TO DO WITH IT.  THIS IS NOT OUR FIGHT.  LET IT PLAY
OUT.  DO NOT GET INVOLVED!” 

So, you’ve referenced ways that we could be aware and preparing for the
situation, responding as we can.  But what is our role, or isn’t our
role, with regard to Syria?

MR. SULLIVAN:  Well, first I would note — and I was a little bit struck
by it — earlier in the post, he said part of the reason this is
happening is because of Russia’s war against Ukraine.  And I think he
even referenced the sheer scale of the casualties that Russia has
suffered in Ukraine, and for that reason, they’re not in a position to
defend their client, Assad.  And on that point, we’re in vigorous
agreement. 

Equally, the United States is not going to dive into the middle —
militarily dive into the middle of a Syrian civil war.  What we are
going to do is focus on the American national security priorities and
interests.  And I name the three of them that I see. 

The first, critically, is: Do not let this allow for the resurgence of
ISIS.  And we are going to take steps to make sure that that happens. 
That’s not about the move down the highway from Hama to Homs to
Damascus.  That’s about what’s happening out in the east, and we will
remain critically focused on it. 

Second, we do have a profound interest in shoring up the security of our
partners, and we’ll — in the region: Israel, Jordan, Iraq, others. 
We’ll do that. 

And third, we will attend to the humanitarian situation because we
believe that we have an obligation to do that.  And frankly, attending
to the humanitarian situation, defending religious and ethnic
minorities, that was a feature of the Obama policy in Syria, the Trump
policy in Syria, the Biden policy in Syria, and I would expect that to
continue as well. 

MS. BREAM:  So, it’s a very long post, but you mentioned his wording
here about the loss of 600,000 soldiers for Russia and how they’re
stretched very thin and tied up in other areas. 

He also, though, in this post, not in all caps, says, “This is where
former President Obama refused to honor his commitment of protecting the
RED LINE IN THE SAND, and all hell broke out,” and that’s when Russia
stepped in.  You were part of that administration.  So how do you
respond to that?

MR. SULLIVAN:  Well, first, I think, you know, going back to the entire
set of events that unfolded in Syria, from the outbreak of the civil war
through to the Russian involvement, an incredibly complex set of factors
came into play.  No one thing led from point A to point B. 

Equally, President Obama made clear he did not want to see the United
States directly militarily involved in the middle of the civil war. 
That is precisely what President Trump is saying at the end of his post
today.  So it seems to me that on that point they agree.

Ultimately, the future of Syria should be up to the Syrian people.  That
has been true from the moment this civil war broke out.  It’s been true
across multiple administrations. 

What is amazing about the moment we find ourselves in right now, though,
is that Iran, Hezbollah, and Russia are all in a position of relative
weakness in the Middle East.  And our core security partner in the
region, Israel, is in a position of relative strength in the region. 
And we believe that the United States has taken steps over the course of
the past year, through military deployments, through diplomacy, and
through engagement with all of our partners that have helped to bring
about this set of conditions. 

Now, there are positives in that, and there are risks in that, and we’ve
just talked about some of those risks.  So what we have to do is try to
take advantage of those positives and manage those risks as best as we
can through a handoff back to the Trump administration in just a few
weeks’ time that’s got to be as seamless as possible.  And for that
reason, I’m in contact with my successor.  Our Middle East team is in
contact with their successors to make sure that we have transparency,
coordination, and that the baton gets passed smoothly, because we don’t
want to miss anything between January 19th and January 21st.

MS. BREAM:  How is that going, the coordination between incoming and
outgoing?

MR. SULLIVAN:  It has been professional, it has been substantive, and
frankly, it has been good.  Obviously, we don’t see eye to eye on every
issue, and that’s no secret to anybody.  But there is a deep conviction
on the part of the incoming national security team that we are dealing
with — including my successor, and, on our part, directed from President
Biden — that it is our job, on behalf of the American people, to make
sure this is a smooth transition.  And we are committed to discharging
that duty as relentlessly and faithfully as we possibly can. 

That’s true in every transition, but I think it’s more true in this
transition because you have a war in Ukraine that requires a very smooth
handoff, you have the ongoing conflicts in the Middle East that require
a very smooth handoff, and then, frankly, you have the continuing pacing
challenge of China and events unfolding there on a day-to-day basis that
requires smooth handoff.

So, the nature of the world we find ourselves in today only elevates our
responsibility to be engaged, to talk regularly, to meet regularly, to
be transparent, to share, and to make sure it’s an effective
transition.  And we are doing all we can to live up to that
responsibility.

MS. BREAM:  So, you know, Reagan does a national defense survey every
year where they ask people about a lot of these really pressing topics. 
In one of them, they were asked about the increased economic and
military cooperation between Iran, Russia, North Korea, and China. 
Eighty-six percent of Americans have significant concerns about that. 

So how do you answer critics who say this alliance of bad guys has
actually gotten tighter and, you know, in a way, more solidified under
this administration?

MR. SULLIVAN:  Well, look, I think there is no doubt that there is
increasing alignment among these four actors.  That is true.  And it’s
something actually I’ve spoken about, we’ve pointed out.  We have a
national security memorandum that we are in the closing phases of
pulling together that is memorializing the work we have done within the
U.S. government over the course of the past four years, across defense,
diplomacy, development, all aspects of American power, to deal with what
is an emerging reality. 

But why has this happened?  It has not happened because these countries
are so strong.  It has happened out of necessity because these countries
are under pressure. 

Russia, under pressure in Ukraine, had to turn to Iran for munitions and
North Korea for personnel. 

Iran, under pressure, tried to turn to Russia to get help because its
attacks against Israel were defeated and its own air defenses were badly
degraded. 

And so — and if you look at China, when we came into this
administration, the prevailing storyline was: China will surpass the
United States in economic strength by the end of this decade.  Now
there’s a lot of people who say it will never happen.  When we came into
this administration, serious people said China is going to dominate the
future of AI.  Now that script has been flipped. 

So, you look at these countries and the relative challenges that they
are facing, all four of them, and then you look on the other side of the
ledger at America’s alliances, and they have never been stronger.  NATO
is bigger, more unified, more purposeful than ever before, and NATO
Allies are paying their fair share.  When we came into office, nine NATO
Allies were paying 2 percent; now it’s 23.  And the remaining nine have
all committed to get to 2 percent and have a path to do it. 

You look at the Indo-Pacific.  We’ve started AUKUS.  We’ve elevated and
institutionalized the Indo-Pacific Quad.  Our alliances with Japan and
Korea are at an all-time high, and our trilateral cooperation with Japan
and Korea is at an all-time high.  And you just saw the resilience of
South Korean democracy after this declaration of martial law and its
retraction by President Yoon.

India, the Philippines, Vietnam — we have new partnerships that are
dynamic and effective. 

So, on the one hand, you’ve got the American alliance system and the
free world strong, vibrant, coordinated, organized.  On the other hand,
you do have this increase in convergence, but among a group of actors
that is facing serious challenges, serious pressures, and serious
strategic dilemmas.  And even within that group, this Russia-North Korea
cooperation is not something that sits very well in Beijing.  So there
are internal contradictions that are problematic on their side of the
ledger that we will continue to look at and see how we can deal with
from a strategic perspective going forward. 

The final point I will make: If you look at the hand we are passing off
in terms of just the basic foundation of American power at home, our
economic and technological engine, arresting the slide in our defense
industrial base, diversifying and making more resilient our supply
chains — these are steps where we feel that the United States has a
foundation of national power domestically that is healthy and strong at
a time when the Russian economy, the Chinese economy, and the Iranian
economy are all in various states of disrepair. 

So, for all of these reasons, it’s a challenging world.  It’s a complex
world.  The post-Cold War era is over.  A strategic competition is
underway to determine what comes next.  But America has a good hand to
play, and it is a hand that we believe we have made stronger when we
pass it off to the next administration. 

MS. BREAM:  I want to go back to Iran, since there’s some news this
week.  An intelligence report out from the DNI office this week says
that they now have enough fissile material to make more than a dozen
nuclear weapons.  And so, when you talk about them being worsened, there
are critics who will say sanctions waivers, unfreezing assets and giving
them access to that.  It was a top Treasury Department official, Wally
Adeyemo, who himself said that if they get their hands on cash, they’re
going to use it for nefarious reasons, admitting things are fungible. 
And that — you know, the Reagan Defense Survey also shows Americans
think it is time for us to actually get tougher with Iran and that this
administration hasn’t been tough enough. 

MR. SULLIVAN:  What I find odd about that argument is Iran’s major proxy
in the region, Hezbollah, is absolutely weakened, shattered.  Iran’s own
capacity to project conventional military capacity in the region has
been exposed and defeated directly by the United States, working with
Israel and other countries.  Iran’s economy is in absolute shambles, and
Iran is nowhere to be found in defending its main client state, Assad,
as rebels take city after city on the way to Damascus.

So, is Iran in good shape?  I would say they are not.  Has American
policy over the course of the past four years and over the course of the
past year contributed to the circumstances Iran finds itself in?  I
would submit to you that it has.

Now, the nuclear program in Iran remains a source of immense concern. 
President Biden made the same commitment President Trump made and
President Obama made, that we will never allow to get Iran a nuclear
weapon.  That is a promise we intend to keep till every last day in our
administration, and I presume the incoming administration will also do
what is necessary. 

They have advanced their nuclear program.  They’ve done so because the
nuclear deal that was in place that put enormous restraint on the
program was removed by the last administration, and because we haven’t
been willing to just lift sanctions to get back into it.  In fact, we
have not lifted sanctions.  We’ve imposed more sanctions on Iran over
the course of the past four years. 

The Middle East right now is in a period of considerable
transformation.  But one thing is for sure: Iran is in a weaker state
today than they were when we took office, and that creates both
opportunities, but it also does create risks, including the need for us
to continue to constrain and deter their move should they choose to make
it as a matter of policy towards a nuclear

weapon.

MS. BREAM:  But to be clear, there were some sanctions waivers. 

MR. SULLIVAN:  Well, for example, we did authorize the movement of $6
billion for humanitarian purchases, which was a policy of the previous
administration that money in certain bank accounts could be spent down
by Iran for food, medicine, and other approved humanitarian
transactions.  We used that same mechanism that Secretary Pompeo put
into place as part of a deal to get American citizens who had been held
for years — predating our own administration — in Iran, in part because
some of those Americans were getting — were facing significant health
challenges.  After October 7th, we froze that.  So those $6 billion were
frozen in Qatar; have not, in fact, been used. 

But this President has shown a willingness to take tough decisions to
get Americans home.  He stands by those decisions.  And in this case, we
actually ended up freezing the $6 billion in place in Qatar.

MS. BREAM:  I want to give you a chance to respond to a critic from
within your own party.  This comes from Senator Chris Van Hollen.  He
says, in an op-ed piece in The Washington Post, “Nothing will haunt
President Joe Biden’s foreign policy legacy as much as his failed
policies in the Middle East.  For too long, President Biden has been
unwilling to uphold our values and enforce our interests in the Middle
East.”  What do you say to him?

MR. SULLIVAN:  Well, the main point that he was making in that op-ed was
that we should have cut off weapons from Israel because of what they
were doing in Gaza.  That’s his view.  I would guess that there are many
people in this audience who would take the exact opposite view and say,
“Actually, the problem with the Biden administration was you paused the
2,000-pound bombs because you were worried about their use in densely
populated civilian areas.  You shouldn’t have done that.” 

So we have critics on one side saying you should have cut off weapons —
the Van Hollen argument; critics on the other side who said — or you
should have cut off all offensive weapons.  Critics on the other side
who say you shouldn’t have cut off or paused any shipments of any
particular munition.  And this is faced with a very difficult situation
where we are going to back our partner to the hill to take out a
murderous terrorist organization like Hamas, but we also care about
protecting civilians and the humanitarian situation in Gaza. 

We chose a course of making sure Israel had what it needed to beat its
enemies, backed up by American power, including American aircraft
carriers, fighter squadrons, and other capabilities in the region.  But
we were going to take certain steps, like saying, “You do not need to
drop 2,000-pound bombs in densely populated areas because you are going
to kill too many civilians, and you can take out the terrorists without
them,” which Israel has. 

That’s the position we’ve taken.  That’s going to draw criticism.  We’re
willing to take that criticism because we believe that we have alighted
on a course that has stood up for our ally, has stood against our common
enemies, and at the same time has done our best to alleviate the
humanitarian suffering in Gaza. 

MS. BREAM:  What’s the latest on negotiations over a ceasefire and
getting the hostages out?  Are you hopeful that will help — that will
happen on the Biden administration watch, before January 20th?

MR. SULLIVAN:  I have now learned not to use the word “hopeful” and
“Middle East” in the same sentence.  (Laughter.)  So, I will not do
that.

There are ongoing talks.  We are going to use every day we have an
office to try to get a ceasefire and hostage deal in place.  I meet
regularly with the families of the American hostages, both those still
living and those who have tragically — either were killed on October 7th
or, like Hersh, were murdered, gunned down in tunnels during the
conflict in Gaza. 

It is just a paramount priority of ours to make this happen, to get this
in place.  We’re coordinating with the incoming team on it.  We’re
coordinating with the Israelis on it.  I can’t make any predictions
about whether it will or won’t happen.  I can only tell you that we’re
going to use every ounce of effort and every last hour to see — to try
to push this across the finish line.

MS. BREAM:  So when people were asked here in the survey, Reagan Defense
Survey, what’s the biggest threat to the U.S., they far and away had
China as the number one on that list, followed by Russia, North Korea,
and then Iran.  How would you assess that?  Does that line up with what
the Biden administration thinks the current threat assessment is?

MR. SULLIVAN:  Well — and I think you heard this from Secretary Austin —
China is the pacing challenge and threat to the United States for a very
simple reason: It’s the only power with the capacity and, frankly, the
aim of displacing the United States as the world’s leading military,
economic, technological, and diplomatic power.  And we are determined to
make sure that never happens. 

And I think if you rack and stack where we are today from where we were
four years ago, the picture looks strong from the point of view of the
United States’ leadership position in the world, the health of our
alliance systems, the health of our economy, the health of our
technological advantage, and increasingly, the health of our military
capacity, including in areas like the submarine industrial base, which
we’ve invested heavily in after decades of decline in that capability,
and also bringing new concepts to the fore, like AUKUS. 

So, I think China is the challenge of the next quarter century.  It is a
challenge we are prepared for and a challenge that I will be proud to
hand off to the next team a strategy that we have been executing
against, I think quite effectively, so that America is in a position to
succeed in that competition.

MS. BREAM:  Second on the list was Russia.  And of course, with Ukraine,
there’s a lot of polling information, too, from the survey about that. 
How people think this will end: The largest group said that Russia is
going to take some territory from Ukraine, and that’s going to be part
of wrapping it up.  What do you think?  How does it come together to an
end?

MR. SULLIVAN:  Well, President Zelenskyy himself has said that this war
has to end at the negotiating table, and our job has been to try to put
Ukraine in the strongest possible position on the battlefield so that
it’s in the strongest possible position at the negotiating table.  And
that has required us to mobilize the largest effort of security
assistance since the Second World War and flow massive quantities of
munitions to Ukraine. 

And they are taking that fighting courageously, innovating themselves,
particularly in the drone space.  I cannot predict exactly how the war
will end, nor can I dictate to President Zelenskyy or the Ukrainians how
it should end.  Our job is to take that 50-nation coalition of countries
that we built from scratch and continue to surge capability until we’re
out of here. 

And President Biden has directed me, and I have directed all of our
agencies in our national security enterprise, to do a massive surge of
assistance and to up the economic pressure on Russia.  And if you look
at Russia’s economy right now, just in the last few weeks, you’ve seen
the warning bells begin ringing much more strongly, and Russia really
has mortgaged its economic future.  All of this can help build the kind
of pressure that can be put to bear at the negotiating table to generate
an outcome consistent with Ukraine’s future as a sovereign, free,
independent state that can deter future aggression, backed by its
partners like the United States. 

MS. BREAM:  Okay.  And one last chance to answer some critics — again,
from your own party — with respect to Ukraine.

Top Democrats like Senators Coons and Blumenthal, Congressman Gregory
Meeks over on the House side, they disagreed with hesitation, they say,
from the White House, first to provide equipment or materials, but then
to limit the use of it.  They say it’s been too little too late with
respect to Ukraine.  How do you answer that critique?

MR. SULLIVAN:  Well, first, I very much respect the bipartisan support
from the Congress.  But we have spent every dollar that Congress has
given to us, and we’ve been waiting for Congress to give us more money,
not the other way around. 

So the idea of too little too late, we have surged everything that we’ve
had forward.  Now, there are certain capabilities that people have —

MS. BREAM:  The limitations on weapons.

MR. SULLIVAN:  — have mentioned.  I’d identify two that our military
raised questions about whether the limited dollars that we had should be
spent on them.  One was Abrams tanks.  The other was F-16s. 

When it comes to Abrams tanks, we have sent Abrams tanks to Ukraine. 
Those Abram tanks units are actually undermanned because it’s not the
most useful piece of equipment for them in this fight, exactly as our
military said.  When it comes to F-16s, President Biden authorized the
sending of F-16s to Ukraine last May.  It’s now December of 2024, and
we’ve had a limited number of pilots train not because we’re not
prepared to train them — we are, as many as possible — but because the
Ukrainians do not have the pilots to be able to build a full F-16
capability in time. 

So I think this focus on these types of capabilities misses the point,
which is this war is about munitions.  And we have surged munitions to
an unbelievable degree, as fast as humanly possible.  Air defense
capabilities.  And we have gone so far as to take the extraordinary step
of asking everyone who buys air defense from the United States: Wait in
line; we’re sending it all to Ukraine. 

These were not things that Congress or critics asked of us.  These are
things we developed and we did. 

Third was making sure they had cluster munitions and now land mines so
they could defend their territory effectively.  Again, critical
capabilities they need that we generated; not something that we were
being told by critics or Congress or anyone else to do, but stuff we
went and did, with some controversy. 

And then finally, on the question of ATACMS long-range strike: The issue
there has always been both the size of the U.S. arsenal, the shot volume
capable, and here too, when we were able to develop a sufficient number
of these to send, we sent them for their use.  And then, when the
Russians took certain actions, we authorized their use inside Russian
territory, which has happened now. 

But I would just say to everyone: Anyone who thinks that is a silver
bullet for this war does not understand what is happening in this war. 
It is not a silver bullet.  It’s one additional capability.  But where
this war is really being fought is on basic munitions and then the
question of manpower, which is something Ukraine has been trying to
surge over the course of the past few months. 

At the end of the day, I think when history actually records what we
have done predating the war, building the supply line and capacity; what
Secretary Austin has done, building the UDCG, 50 nations flowing
munitions in; and how we have been able to execute that over the last
two and a half years, it is an extraordinary feat of logistics,
production capacity, and delivery capability from the United States. 

And first reason Ukraine is where it is is because of the bravery of the
Ukrainians.  Second reason is because of the munitions provided by the
United States of America.  And I’m damn proud of what we have done to
help Ukraine stand up for its freedom. 

MS. BREAM:  Well, in the midst of all of that — (applause) — yes — thank
you for taking a break from all of that.  You’re never really taking a
break — for giving us a few minutes.  So I’ll leave you with one last
question.  What are you looking forward to most as a semi-retired — I
don’t know — a congressional spouse?

MR. SULLIVAN:  (Laughs.)  I think I get a pin, actually. 

MS. BREAM:  Oh, okay.

MR. SULLIVAN:  Which would be cool if that’s true.  I’m not actually
sure if that’s true or not.

But mainly I’m looking forward to sleeping.  (Laughter.) MS. BREAM: 
That’s true.  Well, thank you for taking a break from all of that, and
your nap, for us.  Thank you.  (Applause.)
