---
date: '2024-12-10'
modified_time: 2024-12-11 12:23:49-05:00
published_time: 2024-12-10 21:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/12/10/remarks-by-president-biden-on-his-middle-out-bottom-up-economic-playbook/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on His Middle-Out, Bottom-Up Economic\_Playbook"
---
 
Brookings Institution

Washington, D.C.

12:43 P.M. EST  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  I’m — I’m here to steal her back.  (Laughter.) 

You’re the best, Cec.  
  
DR. ROUSE:  Thank you.  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  You really are.  Thank you.   
  
Well, this is only a 400-page speech.  (Laughter.)  You know, we — I
wanted to talk about how we’re — the economy, and it is a — it is a
daunting task to talk about the transition we’re trying to initiate
here.    
  
I want to thank you, Glenn.  And thank you, CeCe, for the introduction
and for the leadership you’ve se- — you served as the chair of the — my
Council of Economic Advisors.  
  
And it’s great to be back at Brookings Institution.  I started here 400
years ago as a senator.  (Laughter.)  God, it’s hard to believe.  That’s
long ago.  Oh, I don’t want to admit it.  Anyway.  But — and then as
vice president.  And I was — when I was thinking about running for
president, I came here, and now as president.  
  
Last month, I spoke to the Economic Club of Washington D.C. about the
pivotal actions we took to rescue the economy from the devastating harm
caused by the — by the way the — in my view, the pandemic was handled
and how we delivered immediate economic relief to those most in need. 
We got back to full employment, got inflation back down, managed the
soft landing that most people thought was not very much likely to
happen.  
  
Today, here at Brookings Institution, I would like to talk about pivotal
actions we’ve taken to rebuild the economy for the long haul, you know,
and how we’re — how we’re at a critical, in my view, moment in the
direction the economy is going to take.  
  
Next month, my administration will end and a new administration will
begin.  Most economists agree the new administration is going to inherit
a fairly strong economy, at least at the moment — an economy going
through a fundamental transformation that’s laid out a stronger
foundation and a sustainable, broad-based, highly productive growth. 
And it is my profound hope that the new administration will preserve and
build on this progress.   
  
Like most <s>grace</s> \[great\] economic developments, this one is
neither red nor blue, and America’s progress is everyone’s progress.   
  
After decades of trickle-down economics that primarily benefitted those
at the very top, we — we’ve written a new book that’s growing the
economy — the middle-out and the bottom-up — that benefits, thus far,
everyone.  And that’s going to be the test with go- — going forward.   
  
Over 16 million new jobs — that’s new jobs — the most in any single
presidential term in American history; the lowest average unemployment
rate of any administration in the last 50 years; 20 million applications
for new business records — I mean, it’s — it’s for a new business — for
ri- — that is a record, I should say; stock market hits record highs.  I
wish I owned a lot of stock.  (Laughter.)   
  
You know the worst part of all this that I can acknowledge at
Brookings?  For 36 years, I was listed as the poorest man in Congress. 
(Laughter.)  What a foolish man.   
  
Anyway, 401(k)s are up.  More than a trillion dollars in private-sector
investment in clean energy and advanced manufacturing in just two years
alone.  After decades of sending jobs overseas for the cheapest labor
possible, companies are coming back to America, investing and building
here, and creating jobs here in America, in my view, where they
belong.  
  
And, of course, this economic growth is not without pain.  The entire
world faced a spike in inflation due to disruptions from the pandemic
and Putin’s war in Ukraine.   
  
We acted quickly to get inflation down with the help of Republicans and
Democrats.  Inflation came down to pre-pandemic levels.  Wages have
increased.   
  
But still, too many working- and middle-class families struggle with
high prices for housing and groceries and the daily needs of life.   
  
At the same time, as inflation and interest rates continue to fall,
we’ve entered a new phase of our economic resurgence.   
  
With the outcome of this election, we also face an inflection point: We
do — do we continue to grow the economy from the middle out and the
bottom up, investing in all of America and Americans, supporting unions
and working families as we have the past four years?  Or do we — or do
we move backward — in my view, backslide to an economy that’s benefitted
those at the top, while working people and the middle-class struggle to
— for a fair share of growth and economic theory that encouraged
industries and live- — livelihoods to be shipped overseas?   
  
And I might add, I’m not anti-corporation.  For 36 years, I represented
corporate America.  I — my state has more corporations in — registered
in my state than every other state in the Union.  So, I’m mildly
accustomed to corporate America, and to see it grow is useful and
helpful and necessary.   
  
But to make the most of the opportunities ahead, I want to share key
pages from our middle-out, bottom-up economic playbook and lay down what
I believe to be a new set of benchmarks to measure against the next four
years and see whether this theory is more than just a phenomenon.  
  
Four years ago, when I came to office, 3,000 Americans were dying per
day from the pandemic that infected and the- — had profound effect on
our economy — not only ours but around the world.  Millions of Americans
lost their jobs, were at risk of losing their homes.  Hundreds of
thousands of factories and businesses — excuse me — yes, hundreds of
thousand closed and — creating despair in communities.  
  
I remember I — when I was campaigning and they’d say, “My dad used to
work at that factory.  My grandfather worked at that factory.  It’s
gone.”  People lost hope.  They lost hope, and particularly through the
Midwest and other areas of the country.  
  
Supply chains was shattered.  Prices soared on everything from cars to
homes to appliances.  
  
The previous administration, quite frankly, had no plan — real plan — to
get us through one of the toughest periods in our nation’s history.   
  
In fact, there’s an old saying, “If the only tool you have in your
toolbox is a hammer, everything looks like a nail.” 

Over the course of decades of Republican leadership and — and I’m not a
— those of you who know anything about me and my career in the Senate, I
had as many Republican friends as Democratic friends, for real.  I’m not
— I’m not of these — anyway, I won’t get going.  (Laughter.)  
  
But I’ve never been a big fan of trickle-down economics.  The w- — it
was a hammer that was hammering working people.  
  
My dad used to say — my dad was a well-read — well-read man who didn’t
get to — he got accepted to go to Hopkins and — but during the war, he
never got to go.  But my dad used to talk about — he said, “Dad” —
“Joey, not a whole lot trickles down on my kitchen table at the end of
the month.”  
  
Slashing taxes for the very wealthy and the biggest corporations,
diminishing public investment in infrastructure, in education, in
research and development.   
  
And keep your eye on it.  We’re going to find out whether or not what
they want to do on each of those areas — continue to slash — makes sense
or not.   
  
Offshored jobs and factories — I took off- — for cheaper labor
overseas.   
  
Destroying unions while imposing costs on — on those products made in
America.   
  
And despite the mythical reputation to pay for itself, trickle-down
economics deeply worsened our fiscal outlook, in my view.   
  
To offset the costs, advocates of trickle-down economics ripped the
social safety net by trying to privatize Social Security and Medicare,
trying to deny access to affordable health care and prescription
drugs.   
  
Lifting the fortunes of the very wealthy often meant taking the rights
of workers away to unionize and bargain collectively.   
  
And, by the way, I’m all for the very wealthy.  I’m not joking.  If you
can make as much money as you can, good for you.  But everybody’s got to
be — pay — pay their fair share.  
  
It meant rewarding short-termism in pursuit of short-term profits,
extraordinary high executive pay, instead of making long-term
investments, in many cases.   
  
As a consequence, our infra- — our infrastructure fell further behind. 
A flood of cheap imports hollowed out our factory towns.   
  
Remember “Infrastructure Week”?  We had Infrastructure Week for four
years.  Nothing got built.  
  
Well, everybody said when I wanted to have an infrastructure bill that
mattered — over a trillion three hundred billion dollars — we’d never
get it done.  We got it done.  
  
The next president has a game plan I laid out.  And, by the way, he’s
going to find, since I made a promise I’d invest as much in red states
as blue, he’s going to have a trouble not doing it.  He’s going to have
a lot of red state senators who were opposed to all of it and didn’t
vote for it deciding it’s very much in their interests to build the
facilities that are on this (inaudible).  
  
Economic opportunity and innovation became more concentrated in few
major cities, while the heartland and communities were left behind.   
  
Scientific discoveries and inventions developed in America were
commercialized in countries like China, bolstering their manufacturing
investment and jobs instead of the economy.   
  
Even before the pandemic, this economic agenda was clearly failing. 
Working- and middle-class families were being hurt.   
  
The pandemic and the economic crisis revealed a failure for everyone to
see and to feel.   
  
And, you know, one of the things that’s going on here — (the president’s
teleprompter shuts off) — they just turned off my — I’m going to go off
my — I lost the electricity here.  
  
But anyway, one of the things we found is that, you know, we — we
invented the semic- — the computer chip, the size of the tip of your
little finger, to power our everyday lives, from vehicles to advanced
weapons, cell phones, everything in between.  
  
The United States invented these computer chips, but over time, we
stopped making them.  In the very beginning, we had — we produced 40
percent of them in the world.   
  
Well, they all went overseas, almost — virtually all.  
  
So, when the pandemic hit, we found out how vulnerable America was. 
Supply chains abroad got shut down in the Far East because people got
sick.  The factories making the chips closed.  And all of a sudden,
everybody started learning about supply chains, a phrase that was
probably used more in the last four years than the last 40 years.  No,
I’m serious.  
  
You couldn’t get these chips.  Prices soared.  
  
For example, it takes over 3,000 chips to build an American automobile —
3,000.  But when the overseas factories making those chips shut down,
the production stopped and the cost of new cars soared.  
  
You know, it didn’t have to be that way, and I was determined to change
that.  
  
I remember looking at my staff and saying, “I’m going to South Korea.” 
And they said, “You’re what?”  Oh, you think I’m kidding.  See the guy
next to you?  He’s a brilliant economist.  (Laughter.)  He didn’t think
I was so brilliant going overseas there.  (Laughter.)  
  
But all kidding aside, I came into office with a different vision for
America that’s been consistent with my record — good, bad, or
indifferent — since I’ve been a senator: grow the economy from the
middle out and the bottom up; invest in America and American products. 
And when that happens, everybody does — the wealthy still do very well,
and all of America, no matter where they lived, whether they went to
college or not.  
  
I was determined to restore U.S. leadership in industries of the
future.  
  
You know, four years later, we have proof that the playbook is, at least
now, working.   
  
You know, within the first two months of office, I signed the American
Rescue Plan — the most significant economic recovery package in our
history — and I also learned something from Donald Trump.  He signed
checks for people for <s>7,400</s> \[1,400\] bucks because we passed the
plan.  And I didn’t — stupid.  (Laughter.)

But all kidding aside, I realize we’re talking about the impact of
politics, but the economic basic principles is what we’re (inaudible).

You know, we helped vac- — that — passed that act, we helped vaccinate
the nation and has returned to full employment.

This was just the beginning.    
  
We understood we needed long-term investments for the future.  Investing
in America agenda, which includes my Bipartisan Infrastructure Law,
CHIPS and Science Act, the Inflation Reduction Act — together, they mark
the most significant investment in America since the New Deal.  And
that’s a fact.  I mean, whether it’s good or bad, that’s the fact.   
  
The Inflation Reduction Act alone is the most significant investment in
climate and energy ever, ever anywhere in the entire world.  We were
told we couldn’t get it done.  We got $368 billion.    
  
We make these investments — when we make them, we buy America.  “Buy
American” has been the law of the land since the ‘30s.  I won’t go back
— it takes too much time, but you go back to the laws Lincoln pass- —
Lincoln, my lord — if you go back to the laws that Roosevelt passed
about allowing unions to resist being stepped on and organize, well,
there’s a prevision — a “Buy America” prevision.

I was a senator for a long time.  I thought I was pretty informed.  I
didn’t know it existed.

And, by the way, former presidents didn’t know.  If they knew, they
didn’t say anything about it.

It says that the money that a president authorizes, that Congress has
spent, should be used by the president to hire American workers and buy
American products.

There was an exemption.  If you couldn’t find the American product,
American worker, you could go overseas, but you had to show it.

Well, guess what?  Past adminiscration, including my present
\[predecessor\], failed to “Buy America.”  But not on my watch.

We’re modernizing our roads; our bridges; our ports; our airports; our
clean water system; affordable, high-speed Internet systems; and so much
more.

And, by the way, if you think about the high-speed Internet systems,
they’re as consequential to farmers as electricity was during the —
during the administration of — of Roosevelt.  I’m serious.  You can’t
function without it.

And we’ve incentivized building all these large federal projects within
— with American products and American union — mostly union labor, new
pathways into these jobs, including a record number of registered
apprenticeships that we’ve made sure occurred.

As I noted earlier, when I came to office, semiconductor manufacturing
had moved overseas.  I was determined to bring it back so we wouldn’t be
at the end of the supply chain; we’d be beginning of the supply chain. 
And that’s what we’ve done with my CHIPS and Science Act, which has
attracted $350 billion in private-sector investment in America,
including from Korea and from Taiwan.

These — I remember when we went to — to — I digress; I shouldn’t because
it’s a long speech, but to digress just a moment — I went to South Korea
and I met with Moo- — Yoon and — and I met with Samsung.

I said, “Why are you making this billions-dollar investments in — in
what we call the ‘Field of Dreams,’ outside of Columbus, Ohio?”  He
said, “Because you have the most capable workers in the world, and it’s
the safest place in the world for me to make my investment.”

These investments are building what they call a new “fab.” You all know
this.  But a fab is — new factories.  But they’re these giant, giant
things as big as football fields.  And guess what?  When they’re built,
they employ thousands of people.  And guess what?  The average salary:
$102,000, and you don’t need a college degree to do the job.

These investment — massive chips factories, these fabs, these — the size
of several football fields.  As I said, in the “Field of Dreams” from
all across America — from New York to Ohio to Arizona.

I mean, you know, and when I ask these companies why they’re investing —
again, not a joke; I give you my word.  And you all know th- — you’re
businesswomen and -men.  You all know it.  They say we have the most
qualified workers in the world. 

Everybody thinks that — you know, I have trouble with my union friends. 
They’re not very good salesmens for themselves.  Everybody thinks — the
average person out there thinks — they say, “I want to be electrician.” 
Five years later — five years later, as an apprentice, you can become an
electrician.

Look, the CHIPS investments are creating over 125,000 jobs so far.  Many
of those jobs are paying over 100 grand a year, and we don’t need to
come a college degree, as I said.   
  
And it’s not just fabs.  These investments are creating opportunities
for entire communities, small businesses, creating even more jobs.

When they move — when you build — for example, you build one of these
fabs, whether it’s in Syracuse or wherever they’re — they’re — and
they’re all over the place.  Guess what?  You know what happens?  They
end up building drugstores, coffee shops, automobile dealerships.  They
build entire communities because thousands of people move in who can
afford — can afford to live a decent life.  
  
In fact — and we knew in the beginning this wasn’t can- — going to come
to fruition in my campaign — my — my administration.  It takes time to
get this done, but watch, 2, 4, 6, 8, 10 years from now.

We’ll soon be the only economy in the world to have all five of the
major chip companies operating in the United States of America.  It’s
not only cr- — creating thousands — it will create thousands of jobs,
and good-paying jobs building chips factory, it wa- — also creating
those jobs for workers installing more sol- — solar panels, batteries,
selling more electric vehicles than ever before.

You know, that’s a construction boom and a manufacturing boom all across
America.  It’s just going to continue to pick up with the billions of
dollars being invested.

When faced with unfair practices from abroad, we’ve taken a tough but
targeted actions on behalf of the American worker, American businesses,
and factory towns.

You know, we know the pandemic and Russian war in Ukraine and infl- —
and inflation created enormous pain and hardship all across America. 
It’s true for every major economy in the world.  But we took aggressive
action that brought prices down.

For example, after Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, causing gas prices to
spike globally, I ordered the biggest release of — ever in our Strategic
Petroleum Reserve.  That’s all the — you all know — most people
listening wouldn’t — but that’s all that oil we’ve saved up.  
  
And — and we challenged the oil and gas companies to take their record
profits and invest more in production — invest more in production.   
  
Today, American energy production is at record levels, including in oil
and gas production.  Gas prices are down to three bucks — three bucks,
below the price before Russia’s invasion.   
  
In addition, we’ve successfully <s>pushed</s> \[purchased\] back all oil
— all the oil released at a much lower price, and we’ve refilled the
facilities, making the taxpayers, in the process, $3.5 billion.  Brought
it out — s- — got it back; a hell of a lot cheaper to fill it back up.  
  
Now inflation is coming down faster than almost anywhere in the world,
in advanced economies.   
  
As inflation eased and the strong labor market persisted,
inflation-adjusted wages and incomes began to rise.  Average tax f- —
average after-tax income is up almost $4,000 than prices on aver- — for
average Americans.   
  
Eighty percent of working-age Americans have jobs — near a decade — a
multi-decade high.   
  
We’re creating a record jobs sixty percent of all Americans who chose to
pursue a four-year college degree — who chose not to pursue a four-year
degree.   
  
With our historic backing of union, public support for unions is the
highest it’s been in more than a half a century, and the labor movement
is expanding and changing in new companies are — and industries.   
  
Here’s why it’s important for all workers.  I asked the Treasury
Department, when I was pushing for union expansion — and I — to do a
study, and they found that when union wages go up, everybody’s wages go
up across the board.  It matters.  
  
The middle-out and bottom-up playbook is also — is also asking that the
very wealthy begin — the most profitable corporations begin to pay their
fair share.  
  
I won’t use the usual ci- — cite that you usually — we got a thousand
billionaires in America.  Their average federal tax is 8.2 percent. 
Anybody want to trade with them?     
  
Well, look, my predecessor’s $2 trillion tax cut overwhelmingly
benefitted the very wealthy and the biggest corporations, delivering tax
cuts to the top 1 percent — worth more than 50 times the tax cuts that
went to middle-class — families received.   
  
My approach is leading to better results for everyone.  
  
I kept my commitment that no one — it didn’t make me very popular with
Democrats — no one earning less than $4,000 a year would se- — $400,000
a year would pay an additional single penny in additional taxes.  No
one.   
  
Not only I fought hard to expand the Child Tax Credit for working
families, but cut child poverty nearly — it was — it cut child poverty
nearly in half.  And, by the way, it increases economic growth.  More
women can go back to work.  More women can grow the economy.  Expanded
tax credits to make health insurance more affordable for millions of
Americans enrolled in the Affordable Care Act.  By the way, my — the
other team tried to re- — get rid of it.  Fifty-one votes, okay?    
  
After a decade of severe underfunding, I fought hard to make the IRS
have a budget with enough personnel and technology.  And it’s awful hard
— it’s easy to go after my taxes.  Not a problem, you know?  And I — I
make a good living.  You pay me a lot of money as a — as a president. 
But for the very wealthy, it’s awful hard.  You need more personnel.   
  
And guess what?  We finally — after the fight — got more personnel. 
Never did I think I’d be fighting to get more tax collectors.  We got
more folks in the — in the department.   
  
The result: The IRS has already collected over $1 billion in unpaid
taxes from the super wealthy that had not been paid in the past.  
  
Look, folks, our economic playbook also includes increasing fair
competition.  I’m a capitalist, but capitalism without competition is
not capitalism; it’s exploitation.  But not on my watch.  
  
My Inflation Reduction Act took on Big Pharma, reduced the price of
insulin for seniors with diabetes to pay only 35 bucks a month until the
— close to the average of $400 a month.  
  
You know, when I was trying to sell this to the American public, I’d go
around the country doing town meetings and say, “Anybody has a
prescription from a major drug company in America?  Come with me and get
on Air Force One.  I will take you to Toronto, to Berlin, to Rome, to
anywhere in the world, and I’ll get you that same exact prescription,
from the same exact company for somewhere between 40 to 60 percent
less.”  
  
Well, the Inflation Reduction Act also finally gives Medicare the power
to negotiate lower drug prices for seniors across the board.  It’s
already passed.   
  
Starting next month, out-of-pocket prescription drug costs for seniors —
total prescription drug costs — will be capped at $2,000 a year no
matter how much they spend, no matter how expensive their drugs.  And
you all know it, because some of you, like me and others, have lost
families to cancer and cancer treatment.  Those drugs — cancer drugs —
can cost 10-, 12-, 14 million — thousand dollars a year.  
  
These other reforms not only save seniors money, not only saves the
patient money, but guess what?  It saves every one of you taxpayers
money because the federal government is not paying out $160 billion over
the next 10 years that it had to pay now, because they’re not paying
that.  They’re paying 35, not 400 bucks for the prescription —
exorbitant prices of pharmaceutical companies have been cha- — they’re
charging.  
  
We’re also lowering costs by eliminating junk fees.  Junk fees are those
hidden costs that can add up to hundreds of dollars for the average
American family — you know, hidden costs like excessive banking
overdraft fees.  
  
So, I — I didn’t realize they had the power to do this, but we brought
them down from an average of $35 a month for an overdraft to $5 a
month.  It costs the banks a lot of money, but it was fair.  Thirty-five
bucks to deal with an overdraft.   
  
And, in addition to that was late fees for credit cards; apartment
application fees — I know most of us don’t even look at that, but just
the ap- — just to apply; hidden hotel fees; or family seating
arrangements on flights.  A lot of you got that one down.  
  
I don’t know about all of you, but — maybe it’s the Irish in me — but
just — I hate being played for a sucker.  (Laughter.)  No, I’m serious. 
People get angry when they find this out.  
  
Fair competition is especially important for small businesses that have
been crushed by decades of concentrated corporate power.  That’s
important because small businesses represent nearly 50 percent of the
entire GDP of the American economy.  
  
Because of our policies and confidence of entrepreneurs in the economy,
we’ve seen 20 million in — since I became president, 20 million new
business applications during this administration — the most of any
presidential term in history — a record.   
  
Black businesses ownership — back — Black businesses ownership is
doubling.  Hispanic business ownership is up by 40 percent since the
pandemic.  The share of women in business is also on the rise.  
  
It all has benefitted not just those groups but all of the economy. 
Every single application for a new business license is like a — like an
act of hope, of confidence.  
  
There’s so much more from our playbook.  
  
The bottom line is, in four short years, we’ve come a long way from a
cri- — (coughs) — excuse me, my cold — I apologize — from the crisis we
inherited.  
  
We not only — we not only beat the pandemic; we broke from the economic
orthodoxy that has failed this nation, in my view, for a long time — a
theory that led to fewer jobs, less economic growth, and bigger
deficits.  
  
I had a fundamentally different theory.  My theory was the strongest
economy is built from the bottom up and the middle out — from the middle
out and the bottom up, not the top down.  
  
And the best way to build that in America was to invest in America,
invest in American products and invest in the American people — not by
handing out tax breaks to those at the top.   
  
And I’m not looking — look, I — I won’t get in — we can talk about
taxes.   
  
But it was — it’s long past time for America to make a generational
investment in our infrastructure, in our manufacturing base, in the
technological edge in our clean energy future.  
  
I know it’s been hard for many Americans to see, and I understand it. 
They’re just trying to figure out how to put three squares on the
table.  But I believe it was the right thing to do, not only to lift
Americans out of economic crisis caused by a pandemic, but set America
on a stronger course for the future.  And we did that.  
  
We don’t only — don’t take my word for it.  Here’s how Time Magazine and
other commentators describe the economy I’m leaving to my successor, and
there’s a number of these quotes: “President-elect Trump is receiving
the strongest economy in modern history, which is the envy of the
world.”  
  
I’m going to say something outrageous.  I know a fair amount about
foreign policy.  I’ve known every major world leader for a long — I’ve
been around 500 years.  (Laughter.)  I know these guys.  And I don’t
know anybody who wouldn’t change their econ- — their economy with ours. 
Can you think of one, any major nation that says, “I want to trade — I
don’t want to trade.  I’ll keep mine.  I like what I’m doing”?  
  
Let me close with this.  By all accounts, the incoming administration is
determined to return the country to another round of trickle-down
economics and another tax cut for the very wealthy that will not be paid
for — or, if paid for, is going to have a real cost — once again,
causing massive deficits or significant cuts in basic programs, from
health care, education, veterans benefits.  
  
On top of that, he seems determined to impose steep, universal tariffs
on all imported goods brought into this country on the mistaken belief
that foreign countries will bear the cost of those tariffs rather than
the American consumer.  Who does he think pays for this?  
  
I believe this approach is a major mistake.  I believe we’ve proven that
approach is a mistake over the past four years.   
  
But we all know in time — we all know in time what will happen.   
  
I’ve never agreed with Ronald Reagan’s approach to the economy —
although, I got along with him very well — but I did agree with
something he said.  President Reagan said, and I quote, “Facts are
stubborn things.”  “Facts are stubborn things.”  They are.  
  
Here are the facts.  A set mark of benchmarks, if you will, that we
should measure the success or failure of our next four years: During my
presidency, we created 60 million new jobs in America.  Will the next
president create jobs or, like Herbert Hoover, be the only president to
lose jobs in his administration?  
  
During my presidency, we see the lowest average unemployment rate of —
than any administration in 50 years. Will the unemployment be higher or
lower in the next four years?  
  
We’ve long — we have a — we have a — had a strong economic growth of 3
percent, on average, on a yearly basis.  Will the next president have a
stronger or weaker economic growth?  
  
And inflation.  Yes, inflation.  We’re battling through worldwide
effects of the pandemic, Putin’s war in Ukraine, and the supply chain
disruptions.  I’m leaving the next president with an inflation rate
that’s near 2 percent.  Where — where will inflation be at the end of
the next president’s term?  
  
Look, these are simple, well-established economic benchmarks used to
measure the strength of any economy, the success or failure of any
president’s four years in office. They’re not political, rhetorical
opinions.  They’re just facts — simple facts.  As President Reagan
called them, “stubborn facts.”   
  
And one more fact I prep- — as I prepare to leave office: You know,
there is no country on Earth better positioned to lead the world in the
years to come than America.  Think about it.  What stunned me — and,
again, I’m going to say something outrageous — I have as much experience
in foreign policy as any president in the history of the United States
has had.  I was chairman of Foreign Relations Committee.  I — anyway, I
spent a lot of time.  I know all of them.

Well, the decisions we make over the next four years have been
transformative to the nation. But I tell you what, what stunned me — and
it’s not — I’m not being a hyper-American here — I can’t name a single
country in the world that doesn’t think — I’ll put it this way: If we’re
not leading the world, who does?  Not a joke.  I’m not being wise guy. 
If we do not lead the world, what nation leads the world?  Who pulls
Europe together?  Who tries to pull the Middle East together?  How do we
(inaudible) the Indian Ocean?  What do we do in Africa? 

We, the United States, lead the world.  And you all are extre- —
extremely experienced women and men.  You know many of these leaders. 
You know many of these countries.  Find me one that says we’re not or
wish we weren’t.  
  
Look, my hope and belief is that the decisions and investments are now
so deeply rooted in the nation that it’s going to be politically costly
and economically unsound for the next president to disrupt to c- — or
cut.  
  
You know, some of my friends in the Republican Party when I do States of
the Union who holler and like, you know, those things — they’re against
all the things we did.  Keep your eye on them.  Tell me when they want
the programs we voted for them — to cut in their states.  Show me the
most conservative Republicans willing to take away the factories that
are going to be built in their states.   
  
Going to be interesting.  Going to be interesting.

Look, I pray to God — because I think everybody has an opportunity to
reconsider their going — growth — I pray to God the president-elect
throws away Project 2025.  I think it’d be an economic disaster for us
and the region.

In fact, consider one additional fact: The historic investments we’ve
made went to more red states than blue states.  Not a politically smart
thing to do, and I knew what I was doing.  I knew people would be
angry.  But the reason the red states — and they need it more because of
the decisions they made — decisions they made and geography.  
  
Will the next president stop a new electric battery factory in Liberty,
North Carolina, that will create thousands of jobs?

Will he shut down a new solar factory being built in — in Carterville
\[Cartersville\], Georgia?  Are they going to do that?

You know, will we deny seniors living in red states $35-a-month
insulin?  
  
I believe the only way for a president to lead America was to lead all
of America.  And I believe the economy I’m leaving at the moment — and
others could do better than I did; I’m not saying I was perfect — but
ends up, at this moment, the best economy, strongest economy in the
world and for all Americans, doing better. 

So, we got a lot to do, and I’m — I’m — I’m leaving the presidency, but
I’m not going away — in bad news for you all — (laughter) — because I
think we can — we got to bring this country back together.

When I announced my candidacy for president, I said I was running for
three reasons.  One was to restore the soul of America, just decency in
the way we treat one another — politically how we treat one another.

I know you know that when I — back when Pat was around and others, we
had vicious fights.  We’d go and sit and have lunch together in the
Senate dining room.

I’m taking more of your time than I should.  But one of the things that
I realized when I was vice president — Barack wanted me because of my
background in foreign policy and my ability to work in the Congress
fairly well.  And so, about five years, six years in, I decided to go up
to the Senate dining room — I’m president of the Senate — to sit at the
table where Democrats and Republicans sit together and began to listen
again, just talk to people.

Well, guess what?  No place to go.   
  
You’ve been to the senator’s dining room where they take you into the
ro- — the room where you can eat with other senators and other people. 
But right — the doors on the left of that elevator are a private dining
— it used to be a long buffet table.  You walk in — a long table
sitting, I guess, 16, 18 people on the right, parallel with the table. 
And you walk through an archway, and there was a table going the other
way.  One was the Democratic table.  One was Republican table.  And when
there weren’t enough to sit at any one table, then they all sit
together.

It’s hard to really dislike an individual that you strongly disagree
with when you find out his wife is dying of breast cancer or he just
lost a child or he’s having serious physical problems himself.   
  
We knew each other.  I really mean it.

Barack used to — used to drive Barack crazy when we’d — we met every
morning at 9 o’clock and with his last (inaudible) talk to one another
when the day ended.  And he always give me — he said, “I know, I know, I
know.  All politics is personal.”  But it is.  It is.

I watched Teddy Kennedy and Jim Eastland rip each other apart on the
floor and then go down and have lunch together.

So, one is to restore the soul of the country.  
  
The second thing to do — I was trying to do when I — I said I was — when
I ran was to begin to restore the middle class, to focus on people most
in need.  
  
And thirdly, was to — to bring the cou- — bring the politics together
again.  Again, we don’t have to agree with one another, but we sure in
hell have to stick with the system that’s allowed us to strongly
disagree and yet keep within the confines of the — of the admonitions of
the Constitution.  
  
I’ve taken much too much of your time, and I apologize.  But you’re the
— among the most informed people in Washington, and I would really
appreciate, down the road here a little bit, any constructive criticism
you have, and I’m sure you have some.  (Laughter.)   
  
All right.  Thank you so very much for having me.  (Applause.)  
  
1:20 P.M. EST  
  
  
