---
date: '2024-12-03'
modified_time: 2024-12-03 16:40:32-05:00
published_time: 2024-12-03 16:45:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/12/03/remarks-by-president-biden-and-president-joao-lourenco-of-angola-before-bilateral-meeting-luanda-angola/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden and President Jo\xE3o Louren\xE7o of Angola Before\
  \ Bilateral Meeting | Luanda,\_Angola"
---
 
Presidential Palace  
Luanda, Angola

1:00 P.M. WAT

PRESIDENT LOURENÇO:  (As interpreted.)  (In progress) diplomatic
relations since 19th of May, 1993, which have been growing year after
year, mainly since in Angola we started the process of fight against
corruption and impunity, and we establishing the best business
environment.  
  
The Angola president José Eduardo dos Santos was received in the White
House in September 1991 and December 1995 by then-Presidents George Bush
and Bill Clinton respectively.

I thank the fact that President Joe Biden has received me in a very
friendly and warm manner in White House on the 30th November, 2023.   
  
The two countries have been exchanging ministerial and business
delegation visits where we have to highlight the visits by the minister
of national defense of Angola and the chief of staff of the Angolan
Armed Forces to Washington, D.C., and the visits by various U.S.
secretary of state to Rwanda and, more recently, for the first time, the
U.S. Defense secretary and the director general of CIA to Luanda.

On holding these state visits to Angola on the eves of Angola
celebrating 50 years of its national independence, this will be marked
in the history of the two countries as the first visit by a U.S.
president touching the Angolan soil.

This does not only put an end to the past of our relations whereby
within the Cold War we had never been aligned, but also it marks an
important turning point in our relations, which undoubtedly will know a
new dynamics as from today.

We want to work together attracting U.S. direct full investment to
Angola, opening business and (inaudible) opportunity for Angolan
businessmen to the U.S. market.

We also would like to increase our cooperation in defense and security
sectors, in access to military schools and academies, the military
training in Angola, and hold more joint military exercises to cooperate
more in programs of maritime security in order to protect the Gulf of
Guinea and South Atlantic, as well as in the program of equipment and
modernization of the Angola Armed Forces.

Important projects of public investment are ongoing with U.S. EXIM bank
funding, City Capital, and the International Development Financial
Cooperation — DFC — with U.S. companies such as Sun Afrique, Africell,
Mayfair Energy, (inaudible), GatesAir, amongst others, without talking
about the oil companies, Chevron and Esso, who are based in Angola for
various decades, as well as numerous U.S. service companies in the oil
sector.

With company (inaudible), we are working in building cereal silos and
the logistic platforms and parks along the Lobito Corridor and other
points that considered as main grain production places in the framework
of food security.

In the health sector, with USAID, Gavi, and Global Fund, we’ve been
benefitting a lot in the programs of fight against malaria,
tuberculosis, HIV and AIDS, COVID-19, as well as in the program of
robotic surgery that is starting to become a reality in Angola, in
partnership with the well-known hospital from Orlando, Florida, in the
U.S.

We would like to see U.S. investors engaged in construction of power
transmission lines, in high-voltage under public-private partnerships
for southern African countries, namely for the region of Copperbelt in
Zambia and DRC, as well as for Namibia, connecting to the southern
countries’ power grid.

Our AngoSat 2 project is working with NASA and Maxar in acquisition of
high-resolution satellite images for monitoring natural disasters,
namely in the implementation of our national program of fight against
the effects of droughts in the southern part of Angola, PCESSA.

The country is in the process of purchasing six aircraft, Boeing 787
Dreamliners, whose delivery will take place early next year, 2025.

We’re also working with U.S. company Wicks Groups Consulting for Angola
accession to Category 1 of Aviation Federal Administration, which could
be facilitated by the full functioning of the international airport
Antonio Agostinho Neto.

We highlight the fact that in June 2025, Luanda will host the
U.S.-Africa Business Summit that will bring closer politicians,
entrepreneurs, scholars, and civil society from the U.S. and Africa to
talk about businesses, history, culture, and various cross-interests.

Mr. President, your vision and engagement for the success of the Lobito
Corridor, as well as your great contribution to our energy transition
program in the construction of solar products in the southern part of
Angola will always be remembered as a great contribution to food and
energy security, as well as towards economic and social development of
Angola and the whole southern African region.

Once again, thank you very much, you’re (inaudible) welcome to Angola,
and the Angolan people feel themselves very happy and proud of having
you here in the city of Luanda. 

Thank you very much, Mr. President.

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Mr. President, thank you very much.  It’s good to see
you again and thank you for having me here today.  I mean that
sincerely.

I joked with you earlier when I said, “We Bidens are like poor
relatives.  We show up when we’re invited, stay longer than we should,
eat all your food, and don’t know when to go home.”  But you’ve been
very, very generous and hospitable.  Thank you.

I’m proud — (clears throat) — excuse me — very proud to be the first
American president to visit Angola.  And I’m deeply proud of everything
we have done together to transform our partnership thus far.  And
there’s so much ahead of us, so much we can do.

The results so far speak for themselves: building an ocean access
railway — ocean-to-ocean access railway that’s going to connect the
continent from west to east for the first time in history.

Investing in solar energy projects.  It’s going to help Angolans
generate 75 percent of its clean energy by next year — by next year.

Upgrading Internet and communications infrastructure to connect all of
Angola to high-speed Internet networks.  As we’re doing that at home
ourselves, I compare it to when Franklin Roosevelt took electricity to
rural America.  It didn’t exist in rural America.  The government
provided it.

Well, it’s hard to get by these days in business or in ranching or
anything else without access to the Internet — knowing what’s going on,
when to sell your product and the like. It’s critical.

And — (clears throat) — excuse me — and increasing our agriculture
production so Angolans can feed themselves and, quite frankly, the rest
of the world and making a profit doing it — providing work, providing
opportunities, providing muscle to your economy.

And increased agriculture production so Angolans, as I said, can not
only feed themselves but — it’s hard for people in a country that only
has the borders of the Pacific Ocean to the Atlantic Ocean to understand
that it’s hard to get a product from one country to another that are
badly in need of agricultural products but you can’t get there.  To get
there, you not only help those people but you help yourself and you grow
your economy.

And you’ve heard me say it before, Mr. President.  The United States is
all in on Africa.  All in on Africa.  And I think a testament to that
assertion I’ve made to you when I saw you and I’ve made publicly before
— you’ve heard me say it before, but the United States is all in — all
in on Angola.  We’ve already, in — my administration alone has invested
over $3 billion in Angola thus far.  The future of the world is here in
Africa and Angola.

So, during this visit, I look forward to discussing how we keep ensuring
democracy delivers for people — because if they don’t think it’s a
democracy and they don’t think they’re in on a deal, they don’t think
they’re part of it.  And you’ve been working very hard to establish good
democracy.

And — and secondly, how can we help build the strong ties between our
nations and our businesses and our people?  There’s a lot to say on all
of this, I know.  We’re prepared to — I think we’re well on our way to
answering a lot of the questions, but I think you should understand the
extent to which we’re prepared to be engaged.

And as I said to — to the president, ours is not — we don’t think
because we’re bigger and we’re more powerful that we’re smarter.  We
don’t think we have all the answers.  But we’re prepared to hear your
answers to the needs you have, particularly answers to international
debt financing and a whole range of other things we’re prepared to
discuss.

So, I want to thank you very much for your personal welcome.  I want to
thank all of your colleagues for treating us so well since we’ve been
here.  And I mean it from the bottom of my heart.   
  
The future of the world is in Africa.  That’s not hyperbole.  It’s going
to be a billion people very shortly in this continent — a very diverse
continent.  And by — in another 20 years, you’re going to be the largest
country in the world — continent in the world.  And so, you’re — we need
you to succeed.  This isn’t all selfless.  The more you succeed, the
more we succeed, the more the world succeeds.

So, thank you for being willing to have me, be willing to talk to me,
and I look forward to a long relationship.  
  
Thank you very much.  
  
(Cross-talk.)

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Welcome to America.

1:13 P.M. WAT
