---
date: '2024-12-04'
published_time: 2024-12-04 05:05:10-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/12/04/remarks-as-prepared-for-delivery-by-first-lady-jill-biden-at-a-joining-forces-event-with-military-families-at-nas-sigonella/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks as Prepared for Delivery by First Lady Jill\_Biden at a Joining Forces\
  \ Event with Military Families at NAS\_Sigonella"
---
 
Catania, Italy

Thank you, Captain Shoemaker. I’m grateful to you and Lisa for the warm
welcome to Sigonella and for your leadership of this base.

And what a beautiful performance from the band!

Ambassador Markell—Jack, Joe could not have asked for a better partner
from Delaware to the White House in Italy. It’s so wonderful to be able
to spend this special day with you and Carla.

And today is possible because of the work of Consul General
Roberts-Pounds.

I’m also grateful to all the Italian officials with us for taking the
time to be here.

Thank you all for spending part of your morning with me.

The Bidens are a military family.

As the Captain said, my father was a Navy Signalman in World War II. And
our son, Major Beau Biden, served for a year in Iraq as part of the
Delaware Army National Guard.

So, 15 years ago, when I took my first overseas trip as Second Lady, I
wanted to visit the people who make our freedom possible.

I traveled to meet military families stationed at Bamberg and
Schweinfurt over 4th of July weekend.

In the years since, through Joining Forces—my White House initiative to
support military and veteran families, caregivers, and survivors—I’ve
sat with hundreds more servicemembers and their families—to keep
listening.

Today, I’m humbled to be with military families here at Sigonella.

We just began the holiday season at the White House. And, I hope to
bring some of that warmth across the ocean to all of you—though you seem
to have created a pretty incredible display here too.

This year—Sigonella’s 65th anniversary—you’ve shown the world why you’re
the “Hub of the Med.”

The 3<sup>rd</sup> highest Final Evaluation Problem score in history!

Holding 200 community relations events—more than any other base.

The Jaguars winning the European football championship to end a perfect
season!

And every day you successfully weave through the Sicilian traffic.

But I know this life isn’t always easy: deployments that seem too long
and phone calls that end too soon, PCSing every few years—leaving behind
careers, schools, and communities.

That’s why Joe’s Administration is making sure we do everything we can
to support military families

Lowering the cost of child care and bringing universal pre-k to
bases—including this one!

Making sure military kids with disabilities can transfer their
individualized education programs to their new school.

Signing an historic Executive Order to help military spouses keep their
careers, and collaborating with the Italian government to let spouses
work remotely here—because we have to do everything we can to make sure
spouses have employment opportunities no matter where they’re stationed.

You are the brave and the bold.

You’re the spouses who hug twice as hard and cheer twice as loud at
football games to fill that empty space beside you, so that other
families can celebrate their milestones together.

The military kids who don’t have a hometown, so that other kids can stay
in theirs.

You’re the 1% who serves, so the 99% can know freedom.

You stand on the front lines, protecting Americans around the world and
ensuring those at home can feel the peace and light of the holidays year
after year.

And we have a duty to make sure you can build good lives.

This is my last overseas trip as First Lady.

Just like all those years ago, I knew I wanted to visit military
families—to let you know how much all of you mean to me and to your
Commander-in-Chief.

It’s been the honor of this military mom and grandmom’s life to serve as
your First Lady—and work to fulfill our sacred obligation to you.

With all my heart, thank you for your service.

May God bless you and your families.

\###
