---
date: '2024-12-04'
published_time: 2024-12-04 07:36:16-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/12/04/remarks-as-prepared-for-delivery-by-first-lady-jill-biden-in-her-ancestral-hometown/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks as Prepared for Delivery by First Lady Jill\_Biden in her Ancestral\_\
  Hometown"
---
 
Gesso, Italy

Buongiorno!

Thank you, Mr. Mayor, for a warmer welcome than I could have imagined.

I’m also grateful to Ms. Prefect Di Stani and to President Schifani for
their leadership.

Ambassador Markell, Jack, Carla, thank you for your hospitality and your
work to strengthen the special relationship between Italy and the United
States.

I know you have an excellent partner in Consul General Roberts-Pounds,
Tracy, thank you for your service in Naples.

Dr. Mario Sarica, thank you for researching my family’s history and
capturing it in your wonderful book.

My daughter, Ashley, and I just stepped into this beautiful church,
where we saw the record of my great-grandmother’s baptism in 1865.

Father Franco Arrigo, thank you for inviting me to visit the church of
my great-grandparents.

In the gospel of Matthew, Jesus says that a city set on a hill cannot be
hidden—that its light shines for all to see.

I’m here today because the light from the hills of Gesso shines across
the world—and it shines brightly within me.

More than a hundred years ago, my great-grandparents, Gaetano and
Conchetta Giacoppa, walked the narrow streets of Gesso. They talked with
their neighbors and watched the stars wander out at night.

And in the everyday rhythms of life, they were shaped by Italian values:
loyalty, hard work, and the belief that there’s always room for one more
seat at the table.

Like many in their generation, strengthened by those values, yet seeking
better opportunities, my great-grandparents decided to leave their
homeland for the promise of an unfamiliar place, and the idea that no
matter where you come from, you can find a home and a future in the
United States of America.

As they crossed the Atlantic, they prayed for the protection of St.
Anthony, who continues to watch over the people of Gesso.

In America, they quickly found that Hammonton, New Jersey was home to
fellow immigrants from Gesso. And other neighbors had come from their
own Gessos around the world, bringing the light of those homelands to
their new nation too.

Step by step, my great-grandparents built a life. Their last name,
“Giacoppa,” became Jacobs.

Their son—my grandpop—grew up and got a job moving furniture.

And his son—my father—joined the United States military at age 17, and
then went to school to become a banker.

Within two generations, America was no longer an unfamiliar place. It’s
where they dreamed bigger with every decade. 

My great-grandparents said goodbye to Gesso and set sail with hope in
their hearts.

But they never could have predicted that within three generations, their
great-granddaughter would be back in Gesso, standing before you, as the
first Italian American First Lady of the United States.

As First Lady, I’ve brought the vibrant Italian American community
together to celebrate our culture and sustain our traditions.

I’ve even had the opportunity to serve gnocchi and braciole in the White
House!

And the values of loyalty, hard work, and that spirit of generosity that
my great-grandparents brought with them to America still live on today.

I am so grateful to be here in Gesso. And as I look out at this
beautiful place, and all of you, I feel the warmth of home. Because of
your kindness, because of your joyful welcome, I will always remember
and cherish this day.

And if my great-grandparents could see all of us here together, I know
they would have been happy, not because I have the title of “First
Lady,” but because their descendants stayed true to their roots.

I’m returning to Gesso today with gratitude for my great-grandparents,
and you. For the culture we cherish. And for the light that shines in
the White House, and wherever there is a son or daughter of Gesso.

May God bless you and keep you.

Grazie.

Now, I’ve brought a gift for all of you. Mr. Mayor, could you please
join me?

My home, Delaware, has a state tree—the American Holly. So today, I’m
giving Gesso a tree that’s closely related: the European Holly.

I hope this tree will stand for generations to come, as a symbol of the
enduring bond between Gesso and her children across the ocean. May our
roots remain strong, and may we always grow together.

\###
