---
date: '2024-12-12'
modified_time: 2024-12-13 09:38:51-05:00
published_time: 2024-12-12 21:23:00-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/12/12/remarks-by-apnsa-jake-sullivan-in-press-conference-tel-aviv-israel/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by APNSA Jake Sullivan in Press Conference | Tel Aviv,\_Israel"
---
 
Tel Aviv, Israel

5:23 P.M. IST

MR. SULLIVAN:  Good afternoon, everyone.  I want to start by taking a
moment to reflect on the last year and take stock of where we are.  This
is my seventh time visiting Israel as National Security Advisor.  I was
here on October 18th of last year when I joined President Biden to send
a strong signal of support to the Israeli people following the horrific
terrorist massacres by Hamas on October 7th.

President Biden believed at the time it was important to come to Israel
shortly after those attacks, becoming the first American President to
visit Israel in a time of war, because he wanted the people of Israel
and also the people of the world to see that the United States would
stand with Israel in its time of need. 

A year after that trip, I was with the President in the Situation Room,
where, for the second time in a period of five months, President Biden
ordered the U.S. military to take direct action to defend Israel from a
significant attack launched by Iran.  Side by side, U.S. Naval
destroyers joined Israeli air defense to intercept a rainfall of inbound
missiles, ballistic missiles fired directly from Iran. 

Over the past 15 months, we’ve remained vigilant to the further threats
and attacks from Iran and its proxies, including Hamas, Hezbollah, and
the Houthis. 

People seem to forget the basic fact of this conflict and these past 15
months: Israel did not seek or start this war.  Hamas started this war,
invading Israel in military formations, killing 1,200 people, kidnapping
and holding hostage hundreds more — Israeli citizens and citizens from
around the world. 

Iran then made a fateful choice to join in and open a multifront war
against Israel.  Backed by the ironclad security partnership with the
United States, Israel has defeated two direct attacks from Iran and
directly struck into Iran in response, degrading Iran’s military
capability.

Hezbollah’s leaders are gone, and we have concluded a ceasefire in
Lebanon, the terms of which made clear that Hezbollah can never again
rebuild its terror infrastructure to threaten Israel. 

Hamas’s leaders are gone, including the masterminds of October 7th, and
we will make sure that Hamas can never again threaten Israel as they did
on October 7th, ever.

And now, the Assad regime in Syria is gone, removing the primary client
state of Iran in the region and the lifeline to Hezbollah.

When Joe Biden said to those who seek to take advantage of October 7th
and to use that tragic day to threaten and attack Israel, “Don’t,” this
is what he meant, and we still mean it.  Don’t. 

The balance of power in the Middle East has changed significantly and
not in the way that Sinwar or Nasrallah or Iran had planned. 

We are now faced with a dramatically reshaped Middle East in which
Israel is stronger, Iran is weaker, its proxies decimated, and a
ceasefire that is new and will be lasting in Lebanon that ensures
Israel’s security over the long term. 

The purpose of my visit today has been to continue to build on this
progress to ensure that that ceasefire sticks and is fully enforced; to
capitalize on the opportunity of the fall of Assad for a better future
for the people of Syria while vigilantly managing the risks that come
with the change in Syria, including the possibility and the risk that
terrorist groups like ISIS are able to take advantage and create new
threats against the United States, Israel, and other countries in the
region and around the world; to continue pressure on Iran while
remaining vigilant against the continuing threat from Iran, including
the threat from its nuclear program.  And President Biden remains
committed to the simple proposition that the United States of America
will never permit Iran to acquire a nuclear weapon.

And to build on all that we’ve done, we’re now looking to close a
hostage release deal and a ceasefire, which would stop the war and
reunite hostages with their families. 

Just over one year ago, we reached a deal that brought 78 hostages out
of Gaza and home to their families.  It’s time to finish the job and
bring all of the hostages home. 

Before departing Washington, I once again met with the families of the
American hostages still held in Gaza.  I made a commitment to them, the
same commitment that I’ve made every time I’ve met with them: that I
will do everything in my power to try to bring their loved ones home, to
do my best to help them see their loved ones again.  I had them in mind
today when I met with Prime Minister Netanyahu, Minister Dermer, and the
security team to try to bring us closer to a deal.  And from here, I
plan to travel to Doha and then on to Cairo to continue to advance this
effort. 

A ceasefire and hostage deal would start bringing those hostages home. 
It would also allow for a massive surge in humanitarian assistance.  We
discussed the humanitarian situation and the suffering of Palestinian
civilians in Gaza today.  We discussed recent steps taken to increase
the flow of much-needed assistance and further steps that need to be
taken in the days ahead. 

It is an American commandment and a Jewish commandment that every
innocent life has value.  I have previously quoted a poem that means a
great deal to my family, a poem from John Donne, which says, “Any man’s
death diminishes me, because I am involved in mankind.”  That is the
spirit that the United States has brought to this conflict — to stand up
strongly in the defense of the State of Israel and try to reduce
suffering of innocent people wherever they may be. 

We are now in the midst of a political transition.  I have been engaging
my successor, the incoming National Security Advisor, in a professional
and serious way on all of the issues that affect the State of Israel,
the threats and the opportunities.  And we’ve had good discussions,
constructive and substantive discussions, and those will continue to
ensure that there is a smooth handoff on January 20th. 

There’s also something else important in those discussions, which is
that it is my personal commitment to ensure that the U.S.-Israel
partnership rests on a solid bipartisan foundation going forward.  And
I’m going to continue to do everything I can to contribute to that,
because I believe it is in my country’s interest and the interest of the
State of Israel. 

So, thank you for bearing with me as I set the context for my visit
today, report on some of the things we discussed and the current events,
and I will be happy to take your questions. 

Yeah.

Q    Michelle Kelemen with NPR.

MR. SULLIVAN:  Hi, Michelle.

Q    Do you get the sense that Netanyahu is waiting for Trump to reach a
hostage deal?  And if so, do you think the hostages can survive until
then?

MR. SULLIVAN:  I believe that every day brings increasing risk, which is
why there’s such urgency to try to get this deal.  Obviously, we’ve seen
the tragic death of hostages since the massacres of October 7th and over
the course of the past 15-months conflict. 

So as soon as we can close this deal, we should close this deal in the
interest of bringing those hostages home. 

The answer to your first question is: No, I do not get that sense.  I
got the sense today from the Prime Minister he’s ready to do a deal. 
And when I go to Doha and Cairo, my goal will be to put us in a position
to be able to close this deal this month, not later. 

Now, we’ve been close before and haven’t gotten there, so I can’t make
any promises or predictions to you, but I wouldn’t be here today if I
thought this thing was just waiting until after January 20th.  I am here
today because I believe every day matters, and we are going to use every
day we have to try to close the deal as soon as we possibly can.

Yeah.

Q    Thanks, Jake.  Jake, what new concessions have Israel and Hamas
made or indicated that they are prepared to make? We’ve seen, in
particular, reports that Hamas is willing to allow Israeli troops to
remain along Netzarim and Philadelphi for longer than previously.  Can
you confirm that Hamas has provided a list of hostages who they would
release?

And then, just on Syria as well, if you could comment.  The Israeli
military has conducted nearly 500 strikes in recent days on Syrian
military assets, not only chemical weapons depots but also missiles,
helicopters, things that presumably a new Syrian army would need in the
future to maintain stability inside of Syria.  Are you at all concerned
about the impact of those Israeli strikes?  And did the Prime Minister
provide you with any assurances about how long these strikes will
continue for, if indeed they will?

MR. SULLIVAN:  So, on your first question, I’m sorry to disappoint you,
but I can’t negotiate in public on the terms of the hostage deal.  I’ll
leave the details where they belong, which is behind closed doors among
the parties and the mediators.  And as soon as we come to something that
is an agreed document to bring forward, we will bring it forward and you
can see all of its terms. 

With respect to Syria, what Israel is doing is trying to identify
potential threats, both conventional and weapons of mass destruction,
that could threaten Israel and, frankly, threaten others as well, and
neutralize those threats.  That is part of its effort to protect the
country in the midst of a very fluid situation.

We are in deep consultations with the Israeli government about where
this goes from here, what that will look like in the days and weeks
ahead.  I’m going to leave it at that for now.  But the efforts taken to
date really have been focused on the types of capabilities that could
represent a genuine threat to the State of Israel. 

Yeah. 

Q    Hi.  Thank you so much.  Owen Alterman from i24NEWS. Two questions
that are related. 

First of all, we’ve seen reports in the last few days of American-backed
Kurdish troops that have been shooting at and been shot by
Turkish-backed troops in northeastern Syria.  What are the red lines of
Turkish involvement in that part of the country from the perspective of
the administration?

And the second question: There’s concern in Israel that Turkish activity
in Syria could ultimately, in the medium term even, be hostile to us and
be hostile activities up to and including on our border.  What kind of
assurances can you give the Israeli public that that scenario won’t
materialize?

MR. SULLIVAN:  So, first, our commitment to our partnership with the
Syrian Kurds, especially the Syrian Democratic Forces, is deep and
resolute.  And that commitment exists because we are in a partnership
with them to fight ISIS.  And they have been very capable
counterterrorism partners not just in suppressing the threat from ISIS,
but also in holding ISIS terrorists in large numbers in detention
facilities in eastern Syria.  And we want to make sure that that ongoing
work is not disturbed. 

Second, our own commitment to the continued defeat — work to defeat ISIS
has just been renewed in a quite vigorous way over the weekend with a
series of strikes on ISIS personnel and facilities in the central Syrian
Desert, dozens and dozens of targets that we hit with real, intense
American capability, B-52s.  And what we are saying with that strike is
we are going to continue to hit any ISIS threat where we find it, and
we’re going to work with our partners to do so. 

I have learned, maybe both the easy way and the hard way, not to speak
about red lines in this part of the world publicly, so I do not intend
to do so from this podium.  But I do want to just make the point that we
are engaged both in consultations with our Kurdish partners.  In fact,
General Kurilla was just recently very deeply in conversation with our
Kurdish partners.  And we are in conversations with Turkey as well about
our expectations and about what we see as the best way forward. 

I think those conversations are serious, they’re intense, they’re
ongoing.  They have already produced some results, including this
de-escalation around Manbij that both Turkey and the Kurds have kind of
informally signed up to.  All of that is tenuous.  It is fragile.  It is
something that is going to require ongoing work and cultivation, and it
is something that we will be very vigilant to as a top priority going
forward.  But beyond that, I cannot comment further today.

Q    What about assurances did Israel (inaudible) about Turkish activity
in Syria (inaudible)?

MR. SULLIVAN:  So, we look at the situation in Syria as having a range
of different risks presented, including the potential for fracture in
that state, as well as power vacuums that can give rise to terrorist
groups that can threaten beyond borders, as well as the potential for
groups to be in charge in Damascus who bear hostile intent to outside
forces, including to neighbors like Israel. 

All of those are possibilities.  All of those are risks that President
Biden has spoken to publicly and that we are dealing with partners on
privately, including dealing with the Turks, who do have some measure of
influence here, and where we have set out our views and expectations. 

But again, given the nature of the situation, given the sensitivity,
given the urgency, it’s important, I think, for us to be able to carry
out those conversations behind closed doors as we make progress, and
then we will share with you the results. 

Yeah.

Q    Jake, Raf Sanchez from NBC News.  I know you’re not going to
negotiate in public here, but there does seem to be more flexibility
from both Israel and Hamas right now.  What do you attribute that to? 
Is it the killing of Sinwar?  Is it the weakening of Hezbollah?  Is it
President-elect Trump injecting urgency into this?

And just on Syria, the Israeli government is saying its presence in the
buffer zone and outside of it, inside Syria itself, is temporary.  Do
you believe them that it’s temporary?  Did the Prime Minister give you a
sense of what conditions would need to be met before Israel would
withdraw?

MR. SULLIVAN:  We didn’t go into deep detail on the conditions, other
than to say that those conditions would require Israel to feel that the
kinds of understandings that were in place before the fall of the Assad
regime to ensure stability, predictability, and security for Israel are
put back into place. 

And, yes, we do have every expectation that it will be temporary.  The
Prime Minister, the Israeli government have made that point not just to
the United States, but have made that point publicly, and we take them
at their word that that is the intention here as we work through a new
arrangement that can ensure that Israel is secure in light of the risks
that have been laid out in previous questions. 

There are any number of reasons for why contexts change in negotiations,
especially in a situation as fluid as this, but I would point out that
Hamas’s posture at the negotiating table did adapt following the
announcement of the ceasefire between Israel and Lebanon.  Why is that? 
It’s because, for months, we believe Hamas was waiting for lots of other
actors and forces to come to their rescue, to come to their aid.  And
when we got that ceasefire, it was clear that the northern front had
been decoupled from Gaza.  And from that moment forward, we’ve had a
different character to the negotiation, and we believe that it puts us
in a position to be able to close this negotiation. 

It is also, of course, relevant that Israel’s ability to meet so many of
its military objectives in Gaza is relevant to the negotiation too,
including the elimination of the top leader, Sinwar; other authors of
that October 7th massacre; and the dismantlement, the destruction of the
organized military formations of Hamas. 

So these are relevant considerations that we think have put this onto a
plane where it could get done.  Whether it does get done still depends
on both sides ultimately signing on the proverbial dotted line. 

The last thing I will say with respect to the incoming administration
is, actually, we’ve had, as I said in my opening comments, very good
consultation and coordination with them, including on this issue, where
we keep them apprised of how the negotiations are unfolding.  We talk to
them about how we can send a common message that the United States, no
matter who’s sitting in the Oval Office, no matter whose party is in
charge, wants to see this ceasefire and hostage deal and see it now. 
That is all part of the American contribution to an effort to ultimately
produce an outcome here, and we’re going to keep working until we get it
done. 

Yeah.

Q    Thank you, Mr. Sullivan.  (Inaudible), Channel 14.  Regarding the
continuation of passage of humanitarian aid into the Gaza Strip, knowing
what we know now, that Hamas takes advantage of this aid and holds it as
a leverage for its own rule, was it a mistake by your administration to
push Israel to maintain the transport of humanitarian aid and, by that,
to strengthen Hamas?

MR. SULLIVAN:  It absolutely was not a mistake for the United States to
seek to ensure that women and children and innocent people in Gaza, who
have nothing to do with this fight but who, in fact, are being put in
harm’s way by the way Hamas fights — using schools and mosques as terror
infrastructure, hiding behind civilians, making it that much more
difficult for Israel to carry the fight against Hamas and destroy its
capabilities — those people deserve the basic sustenance of life.  They
deserve food, water, medicine, sanitation. 

And, by the way, that’s not just an American position; that’s a
requirement under international humanitarian law.  And it is also the
position of this Israeli government, who is not standing up saying we
should give no humanitarian assistance to the people of Gaza.  They’re
saying something different.

Now, we have viewed various critical points over the course of the past
15 months as moments where not enough was getting in to ensure that
people had what they needed to survive.  And we made no bones about
pressing on that.  Because we think, at the end of the day, feeding
starving children does not harm the security of the State of Israel, but
it does vindicate our common shared values of humanity. 

And so, as I said in my remarks, the American commandment, the Jewish
commandment that every innocent life has value, that is a present factor
and it’s something we have to take seriously, even as we take seriously
that Israel has every right — indeed a duty — to go after its enemies
with everything it’s got.  You have done that, and we have backed you in
going after your enemies, Hamas, Hezbollah, and Iran itself.  We have
helped defend you against attacks, including from Iran itself.  And we
have also stood up to say: Let’s make sure that Israel is not
responsible for the third famine of the 21st century. 

We think that that is the right way to pursue a principled and just and
strong, robust policy, and we will continue to do that as long as we’re
in office. 

Yeah. 

Q    (Inaudible) Jewish Insider.  Do you have any update on the three
Americans who are still believed to be alive?

MR. SULLIVAN:  I only can tell you that we have received the tragic news
about the passing of Gadi and Judi and Itay and Omer all on October 7th,
and of course, the godawful killing of Hersh during the course of this
conflict.

We believe the other three Americans are alive.  We don’t have a proof
of life from such a short time ago that I can tell you that for certain,
but we believe that they are.  And of course, we saw the video of Edan
Alexander. 

So we are operating on the proposition that there are seven Americans
being held in Gaza currently — three of them alive, four of them
deceased — and we want to bring all seven of them home. 

Yeah.

Q    Thank you.  Itamar (inaudible) from (inaudible).  I wanted to ask
you if there is a linkage between the hostage deal and the ceasefire
deal and the normalization between Israel and Saudi Arabia.  Is it
realistic to bring about a deal, a normalization deal, before January
20?

MR. SULLIVAN:  These are not linked.  The ceasefire and hostage deal is
something we are pursuing on its own, because it is, we believe, a
humanitarian imperative to bring the hostages home, and it is in the
strategic interests of the State of Israel because all of its interests,
its core interests, are protected in that deal.  We also believe it’s in
the interest of the Palestinian people because it will allow for this
surge in humanitarian assistance. 

So we are pushing for that deal on its own terms, for its own purposes,
because we want to follow through on our commitment to do everything
possible to get the hostages home.  So, there is no link there. 

Of course, we continue to believe in a long-term vision for the region
of normalization and integration, and the President has laid that out. 
And everything we do, we want to point in that direction.  But I don’t
have any updates for you today on the question of normalization. 

Yeah.

Q    Thank you.  Gil Tamari, Channel 13 Israel.  I would like to follow
up on one of my colleague’s questions.  The Prime Minister said today
that Israel will continue to hold the territory in the buffer zone until
there will be a governed force in Syria that will be able to oblige to
the 1974 agreement.  And as you may know, this might take years.  So I
would like to know if the United States is satisfied with the long-term
Israeli position of — possession of the buffer zone. 

And also, is the G7 statement relay also to Israel when talking about
the territory of Syria? 

And I know you cannot take us into the negotiation regarding the
hostage, but can you give us the feeling?  What makes you this time a
little bit more optimistic?  I know you hate to use the word “hopeful,”
but what makes you this time a little bit more optimistic?

MR. SULLIVAN:  So, first, on the question of Israel’s move into that
border zone in Syria: This is a fluid situation.  Fast-moving.  I would
submit that everyone in this room, both sitting in these chairs and
behind the cameras, was not thinking about the fall of Assad one month
ago.  So that’s how fast things are moving. 

What Israel saw was an immediate threat, the collapse of a structure
that had been in place for a long time and the potential for that vacuum
to be filled by a direct, proximate threat right across its border.  So
it moved in to fill that threat.  That, from the United States’
perspective, is logical and consistent with Israel’s right to
self-defense. 

How this plays from here: We are a few days into this, so we will stay
in close consultation with our Israeli partners, as well as with
stakeholders in Syria, as well as with stakeholders across the region,
and we will develop and elaborate a perspective on the best way forward
in a coordinated way. 

And I just can’t sit here today and begin projecting out years into the
future, given that just days ago, Assad still sat in Damascus. 

With respect to why there is more optimism in the air, shall we say, I
think it’s partly for the reason that I laid out, which is: I do believe
the ceasefire in Lebanon has generated a different context.  I actually
believe that the loss of Iran’s client state in Syria has contributed to
that different context.  Israel’s military progress against Hamas’s
infrastructure formations and senior leaders has contributed to that
context.  So, the surround sound of these negotiations is different
today than it has been in the past. 

And then, the other point is that the people involved in these
negotiations seem to me to have a little bit of a different feel about
things than they did before.  That’s less measurable but I think still
present.  And so —

Q    (Inaudible) not negotiating directly with Hamas.

MR. SULLIVAN:  No, I’m not referring to the Prime Minister.  I’m not
referring to the Prime Minister. 

So those are the reasons why.  But, look, we have been in a place before
where American officials have stood before podiums and said we are
close, and we were close but we didn’t get there.  I believe we are
close again.  Will we get there?  It is not yet clear whether we will or
we won’t, but we are determined to try to drive this across the finish
line. 

I’ll take two more questions.  Yeah. 

Q    So as we get ready — Maayan Hoffman from The Media Line.  As we get
ready to, potentially, as you said, optimistically sign some kind of
ceasefire or hostage deal, that would be, presumably, with Hamas.  And
ultimately, the goal was to eradicate Hamas, to move them politically
out of ruling Gaza.  As we sign the ceasefire, is there any indication
or vision for Hamas continuing, therefore, to rule Gaza in some
perspective, or do you have a vision of somebody else taking over in the
interim?

MR. SULLIVAN:  So if you go back to President Biden’s speech in late
May, laying out the terms of a phased ceasefire and hostage deal, the
basic elements of and the basic framework of that deal are still live
and part of the discussions that are happening today. 

In that speech, he said that this is a roadmap to end the war, and it’s
a roadmap to a future of Gaza without Hamas in power.  Now, there’s a
lot of steps between here and there, which is why a deal like this
proceeds in phases.  But that has been the stated position of the United
States government going back several months. 

Q    But is there any progress (inaudible)?

MR. SULLIVAN:  What I would just say is: The first thing that we need to
do is get into the initial phase of the ceasefire and hostage deal;
begin to produce the actual releases, the images of hostages being
welcomed home to their families, as we saw a year ago with the 78 who
were released.  And then, the terms of the deal are built on the idea
that there will be ongoing discussions, diplomacy, negotiations to move
from phase one to phase two.  So that’s an ongoing process that will
continue. 

Final question.  Yeah.

Q    Thank you.  You have said before that you believe Prime Minister
Netanyahu is willing to reach an agreement, and the defense minister has
said yesterday it is possible; he told it to Secretary Austin.  How
close are we?  And have you heard from Israeli officials that they will
be willing to stop — to end the war if we will get all the hostages
back?  And can you honestly say that, after 14 months, Prime Minister
Netanyahu has done everything in his power to bring the hostages back
home, and it’s not Hamas have been always the obstacle?

MR. SULLIVAN:  So I expected a question on kind of who’s responsible for
this or for that, for the other thing.

I view my job and America’s duty as taking where we are today, which is
close — I believe close — and bridging that final distance until we
actually get into a deal. 

Again, I want to reinforce that we can’t rest until it actually
happens.  It might not happen.  But I believe it can happen with
political will on both sides.  The Israeli government has indicated,
including the Prime Minister, they would like to see this done.  We see
movement from Hamas.  We see commitment from the mediators.  And I will
go to Doha and Cairo to try to ensure the final impetus is there to
bring this all together. 

Beyond that, I’m not going to characterize the state of play, other than
to say the reason that we are so determined to do this is, at one level,
fundamentally human, which is to get people safely home to their
families and to create calm for a period where suffering people in Gaza
can get relief.  But it goes at another level, deeply strategic.  We
think it is in the American strategic interest, as well as in the
strategic interest of Israel, to do this deal.  That’s true of the
current administration.  It is true of the incoming administration.  It
is true across the aisle in the United States.  And that’s why we’re
going to continue to work together to try to get this done. 

Thank you all very much.

5:53 P.M. IST
