---
date: '2024-12-05'
published_time: 2024-12-05 17:29:18-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/12/05/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-the-national-black-caucus-of-state-legislators-48th-annual-legislative-conference/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at the National Black Caucus of State Legislators\u2019\
  \ 48th Annual Legislative\_Conference"
---
 
Capital Hilton  
Washington, D.C.

2:09 P.M. EST

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon.  (Applause.) 

I was — I knew you all were in town.  I couldn’t let it go without
coming by to say hello and to say thank you to everyone here, all of
these extraordinary leaders.  (Applause.)

I wanted to come by and say happy holidays, Merry Christmas, Happy
Kwanzaa, Happy Hanukkah — whatever you may celebrate.  But most
important, let’s make sure we celebrate each other.  (Applause.)  Let’s
make sure we — please have a seat.  I’m going to j- — be just a minute. 
I am not here to give a long speech.  I’m here to give greetings.

But here’s what I want to say.  This is the season for us to be
thankful, to celebrate our blessings, and to reinvigorate ourselves
about the blessings we have yet to create for each other and the people
we represent.  And you all are the leaders on the ground who are doing
the work that is about lifting people up. 

You all have heard me say so many times: I do believe the true measure
of the strength of a leader is not based on who you beat down; it is
based on who you lift up.  (Applause.)  And that is the work that each
of you does every day. 

Your work benefits people that, for the most part, may never know your
name or mine, people you may never meet.  Yours is the work that is a
response to a calling to serve; a calling to sacrifice; to work long
hours, to work long days to meet the needs of the people. 

Yours is the work that is also the calling that our country makes that
asks of each of us to believe in the promise of America and then do
everything we can to help our nation realize that promise on behalf of
everyone, no matter who they are, where they live, what they look like.

And so, I wanted to stop by to say thank you for all the support you
have given me but, most importantly, for your willingness to answer the
call to serve in the way you do. 

It’s going to be an important year next year.  And I know that’s part of
what the conference has been about, to think about how we are going to
use the limited resources we have to serve the greatest number of people
and to lift folks up. 

And so, I am here also to thank you in advance for that pledge that you
have made and continue to make.  Our work is so important.  And as we
reflect on this past year, let us remember we had impact in every way,
and we have taken on the work of building community and coalitions. 
That’s what we do and do so well.  And, in particular, that’s what
members of this organization do, so let’s stay committed to that. 

But you all are the soldiers on the ground and in the field.  And I know
that everyone is here together in fellowship to rededicate ourselves to
the work yet to be done and to do it knowing, yes, it will be hard work,
but hard work is good work.  Hard work is joyful work. 

And we are up — we are up for the moment to see it through and get it
done.  And, yes, we will do it with joy in our hearts and with our
commitment to the fight that is about lifting up all people, recognizing
everyone’s right to opportunity, to dignity, to freedom.

And so, I wanted to just stop by to say thank you for all of that.  And
please enjoy the holidays. 

Take care, everybody.  (Applause.)

                         END                     2:13 P.M. EST
