---
date: '2024-12-05'
modified_time: 2024-12-05 13:55:04-05:00
published_time: 2024-12-05 12:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/12/05/remarks-by-national-economic-council-deputy-director-daniel-hornung-on-biden-harris-efforts-to-build-and-preserve-housing-to-lower-costs-and-opportunities-ahead/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by National Economic Council Deputy Director Daniel Hornung on Biden-\u2060\
  Harris Efforts to Build and Preserve Housing to Lower Costs, and Opportunities\_\
  Ahead"
---
 
*As Prepared for Delivery at the Novogradac Housing Finance Conference*

We are at a critically important moment for housing policy.

Housing is less affordable for Americans now than at any point in recent
memory. Approximately half of renters are
[cost-burdened](https://www.jchs.harvard.edu/sites/default/files/reports/files/Harvard_JCHS_The_State_of_the_Nations_Housing_2024.pdf)
and a quarter are severely cost-burdened, meaning they must devote over
half of their income to rent. Renters report that homeownership – long
seen as the main source of wealth building for the middle-class – feels
[unattainable](https://www.americanprogress.org/article/americans-recognize-housing-affordability-crisis-support-new-policies-to-fix-the-market-and-build-more-homes/).

Much has been made of why various measures of economic sentiment remain
at low or moderate levels in light of a macroeconomy that has performed
so well – with robust growth, low unemployment, and an inflation rate
that is nearly back to normal. I suspect that the housing situation
facing middle- and low-income households is likely one of the more
significant reasons.

How did we get here? The combination of a [missing decade of apartment
construction and
homebuilding](https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series/COMPUTSA) after the
Global Financial Crisis and a [historic shift in housing
demand](https://www.fanniemae.com/media/38866/display#:~:text=Overall%2C%20our%20findings%20show%20that,through%20the%20end%20of%202020.)
after COVID led to a substantial mismatch between supply and demand that
triggered unsustainable growth in rents and home prices. And bringing
the housing market into better balance would still be insufficient for
households earning the lowest incomes, as these households don’t earn
enough income to
[afford](https://www.cbpp.org/research/housing/federal-rental-assistance)
market rents.

As we near the end of this presidential term, I’d like to focus today on
the groundwork President Biden and Vice President Harris have laid to
address housing affordability by increasing the supply of housing. Two
and a half years ago, our Administration launched the [Housing Supply
Action
Plan](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/05/16/president-biden-announces-new-actions-to-ease-the-burden-of-housing-costs/),
an all-of-government effort to build and preserve more housing.

Today, I will discuss our work as part of that plan to break down
barriers to housing, increase the flow of public and private capital
into housing that is affordable, and promote innovation to lower costs.
And I’ll highlight what I see as the opportunities ahead for state and
local governments and the private sector to build on this work – even as
it remains critical that Congress meet the moment to encourage more
housing production and preservation.

**Breaking Down Barriers to Housing**

Land use, zoning, and permitting barriers have long constrained housing
supply. Since the 1980s,
[housing](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/03/ERP-2024.pdf)
prices have grown sixfold, while construction costs have quadrupled.
Restrictive regulations at the state and local level have contributed to
this dynamic and divergence.

That’s why the Administration’s plan began with federal action to
incentivize state and local governments to reduce barriers to housing
construction. Our Administration launched a first-of-its-kind grant
program, which supports state and local governments in removing
obstacles to affordable housing development, including awarding
[grants](https://www.hud.gov/program_offices/comm_planning/pro_housing/fy23awards)
to 21 communities across the country that are taking steps like updating
land use policies to increase density and by-right permitting,
streamlining regulations, and increasing staffing to enable faster
approvals. In addition, we incorporated zoning and land use reforms as
selection criteria in more than $20 billion in [competitive federal
funds](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/08/13/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-takes-new-actions-to-lower-housing-costs-by-cutting-red-tape-to-build-more-housing/),
including transportation dollars —meaning, if you have pro-housing
policies in place, you are more likely to receive highly-sought after
federal grant dollars.

The federal government also has an important role to play in reviewing
its regulations and policies in a manner that promotes public health and
safety, while seeking to make it easier to build and preserve housing.
For example, our Administration [waived certain environmental review
requirements](https://www.transportation.gov/buildamerica/TOD/faqs) when
commercial structures are being converted into housing.

Looking ahead, this moment calls for much more than just rhetoric of
deregulation. We need to build a real coalition across the private
sector, state and local leaders, and members of both parties in
Washington that asks what more we can do through our policies,
investments, and partnerships, to reward and encourage zoning, land use,
and permitting reforms that make it easier, faster, and cheaper to
build.

**Increasing the Flow of Public and Private Capital into Housing that is
Affordable**

The second key area of focus in our Housing Supply Action Plan was
mobilizing more public and private capital into building and preserving
housing that is affordable for working families. This is an area where
Congressional action is critical, as subsidy dollars are often needed to
[build and
operate](https://ternercenter.berkeley.edu/research-and-policy/making-it-pencil-2023/)
housing that is affordable for low-income households.

At the same time, part of making the case to Congress and to the private
sector that more capital is needed is demonstrating that existing
federal dollars can be used effectively, including to crowd in private
investment. Since launching the plan, we finalized regulations to make
it easier to use the [Low-Income Housing Tax
Credit](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/08/13/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-takes-new-actions-to-lower-housing-costs-by-cutting-red-tape-to-build-more-housing/)
for building mixed-income housing; indefinitely extended and expanded
the [Federal Financing Bank Risk Share
program](https://www.hud.gov/press/press_releases_media_advisories/hud_no_24_042)
to channel more capital into projects and increase certainty for new
construction; made it easier to layer funds from the [American Rescue
Plan](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/08/13/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-takes-new-actions-to-lower-housing-costs-by-cutting-red-tape-to-build-more-housing/),
which represented the largest one-time housing block grant in U.S.
history, with other sources of federal financing; and unlocked billions
of dollars in low-cost lending authority at the [Department of
Transportation](https://www.transportation.gov/buildamerica/TOD/faqs) to
finance housing near transit—a program that will close a deal on its
first housing project in the coming days.

Another way governments can help increase the flow of private capital
into housing that is affordable is by making under-utilized public land
or buildings available for housing. For example, right here in Clark
County, Nevada, our Administration recently announced the sale of 20
acres of public land for just $100 per acre that will be transformed
into
[homes](https://www.blm.gov/press-release/biden-harris-administration-announces-new-actions-build-more-housing-and-lower#:~:text=Cactus%20Trails%20will%20consist%20of,for%20the%20project%20this%20fall)
for working and middle-class families. And the United States Postal
Service, which owns 8,500 facilities nationwide, is soon to announce a
first-of-its-kind sale of surplus land to be repurposed as affordable
housing – building on steps that the [U.S. Forest
Service](https://www.fs.usda.gov/inside-fs/delivering-mission/excel/blueprint-partnering-local-communities-housing)
has already taken to enable workforce housing in high-cost areas in the
Mountain West.

Looking ahead, in addition to pressing for Congressional action, we must
also consider what more the private sector can do in light of increasing
housing needs [across the income
spectrum](https://www.jchs.harvard.edu/blog/middle-income-housing-programs-emerge-affordability-challenges-climb-income-ladder)
and [significant preservation
demands](https://www.planetizen.com/features/130916-good-new-vital-role-preservation-solving-housing-crisis),
with the aging of the housing stock and the upcoming
[expiration](https://preservationdatabase.org/wp-content/uploads/2021/10/NHPD_2021Report.pdf?hsCtaTracking=2cc62f18-cbf3-406c-8cd5-3e7bf96eec42%7C25d23f05-472e-42e9-bfa4-5df93980096f)
of affordability covenants for hundreds of thousands of homes. There is
a growing recognition that building and preserving more housing is not
just a social necessity—it is also an economic opportunity that, if
structured properly, can improve outcomes like long-term affordability
and housing quality, and earn attractive risk-adjusted returns.

I believe this recognition presents a critically important opportunity
that shares some similarities with the push to mobilize private capital
into the energy transition that began more than a decade ago. For
example, if the private market, in partnership with state and local
governments, can demonstrate how to operate quality, affordable
workforce housing at scale, it could bring much-needed capital into
meeting the housing needs of working families, begin to address housing
challenges in high-opportunity areas, incentivize better policy and
innovation, and provide policymakers with insights on how to improve
existing housing subsidy programs.

**Promoting Innovation to Lower Costs**

A final area of focus in the Housing Supply Action Plan was action to
encourage housing innovation and improve construction productivity in
order to lower costs. This goal, while more long-term than the others
I’ve discussed, has the potential to benefit renters and homebuyers,
builders, developers, and manufacturers alike.

One key step our Administration has taken to encourage this kind of
innovation is enabling more housing types – including duplexes,
triplexes, and fourplexes – to be built under the [HUD
Code](https://www.hud.gov/press/press_releases_media_advisories/hud_no_24_233),
a single code that enables offsite manufacturers to benefit from
economies of scale because it does not require them to follow different
codes in different states. Another example is the [Build Back Better
Regional
Challenge](https://www.smartcitiesdive.com/news/bbb-regional-challenge-eda-mass-timber-digital-twins-advanced-mobility/631376/),
a grant competition that funded an R&D investment in mass timber for
affordable housing, which aims to promote the use of scalable building
materials.

Looking ahead, more can and should be done to create the conditions for
innovation and productivity growth in multifamily construction in
particular. This is an area where the private sector can contribute
substantially, with dozens of firms now beginning to experiment with
technologies like modular building, robotics, advanced manufacturing,
and 3D printing. Efforts to mobilize more private capital into
affordable and workforce housing should aim to leverage these
technologies in a manner that enables each dollar to go further and
faster.

**Conclusion**

There is no question that the housing challenges facing families across
the country are immense. And, while bipartisan consensus is building on
this issue, Congressional action is sorely needed. But I remain
optimistic about what we can do together in the years ahead to tackle
the challenge of housing affordability by building and preserving more
housing.

This does not mean housing supply solutions alone are sufficient. We
must also support the lowest-income households and promote fairness and
competition – from prohibiting egregious rent increases when federal
dollars are used to ensuring that algorithmic price fixing does not
diminish the incentive for housing providers to compete on price and
quality.

But we can’t begin to address the housing challenges facing workers,
families, and communities, without a dedicated effort to build and
preserve more housing at a scale we haven’t seen in decades. And I
remain optimistic that the coming years can bring such an effort.

\###
