---
date: '2024-12-16'
modified_time: 2024-12-17 13:16:24-05:00
published_time: 2024-12-16 23:28:00-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/12/16/remarks-by-president-biden-at-a-hanukkah-holiday-reception-2/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at a Hanukkah Holiday\_Reception"
---
 
East Room

8:12 P.M. EST

THE PRESIDENT:  My name — my name is Joe Biden, and I’m Jill Biden’s
husband.  (Laughter.) 

And I was raised by — some of you know me well — by a righteous
Christian: my dad.  My dad used to come home and rail against the fact
that we didn’t let the ship in — let — after Auschwitz, we didn’t — we
didn’t bomb the railroad tracks, et cetera.  And my dad would always
talk about our obligations.  And my dad was the one who inspired me. 

And I see my fellow father-in-law out there, Ronny Olivere.  Ronny is a
good friend.

And my — my — what happened was that — my dad always thought that we had
an obligation to — to step up and — and talk about what happened, and he
inspired me to take every one of my children and grandchildren — when
they reached the age of 14, their first trip in an aircraft overseas was
to Ausch- — to — excuse me — to the — to the camp — that I wanted them
to see what it was like, wanted them to see that no one could have
misunderstood that there — what was going on in those camps.

And so, they toured the camps.  And they toured them, so I wanted them
to know that you couldn’t pretend it didn’t happen and it should never
happen again.

And so, I learned a long time ago: You don’t have to be a Jew to be a
Zionist.  I’m a Zionist.  (Applause.)

A little early, but Happy Hanukkah to everyone.

Jill and I and Kamala and Doug are honored to host you here at the White
House. 

Doug, thank you for being such a great friend. 

And thank you, Anne.   You’ve been a true friend and a real leader.  And
tell your son how proud of him I am — of you.  She has a beautiful son.

And I want to thank you all for being here tonight. 

Look, when you walk around the White House, you feel the history and the
story of our nation, including the story of the Jewish people who came
to our shores in the 1600s after fleeing persecution abroad. 

Here in the East Room is a portrait of George Washington.  In 1790, a
local Jewish leader from Newport, Rhode Island, wrote a letter to
President Washington expressing his hope that America would be a nation
of religious freedom for all its citizens, a nation which, quote, “gives
bigotry no sanction and persecution no assistance.”

Like the ancient Hanukkah story when Jewish M- — when the Jewish
Maccabees fought for religious freedom thousands of years ago, a letter
to George Washington echoed the same vision for freedom.  And ever
since, the values and contributions of the Jewish Americans have shaped
the very foundation and character of our nation. 

That’s why, two years ago, Jill and I displayed the first-ever permanent
White House menorah made of the original wood from the White House
building.  We displayed it again tonight to make clear that history and
vibrancy of the Jewish life is woven into the fabric of America, every
aspect of it, and it’s permanent.  It’s permanent.

But I know this year’s Hanukkah falls on the hearts that are still very
heavy.  It’s the second Hanukkah since the horrors of October 7th.  Over
a thousand slaughtered, hundreds taken hostage, unspeakable sexual
violence, and so more.  The trauma of that day and its aftermath is
still raw and ongoing. 

I’ve gotten over a hundred hostages out, and I will not stop until I get
every single one of them home — every single.  (Applause.)

Last month, we secured a ceasefire between Israel and Lebanon so
residents can safely return home.  And I’ve said many times before, my
commitment to the safety of the Jewish people and security of Israel and
its right to exist as an independent nation-state is — remains
ironclad. 

I know — (applause) — not just me — I know the Jewish community is also
suffering from despicable surge of antisemitism in America and all
around the world.  It’s immoral.  It’s wrong.  And it must stop now. 

And, Doug, I want to thank you.  Thank you for your leadership in this
effort.  I really mean it sincerely.

And I know it’s hard to find hope while — while carrying so much
sorrow.  But from my perspective, Jewish people have always embodied the
duality of pain and joy. 

You know, the late Rabbi Jonathan Sacks said, “A people that can walk
through a valley of shadow of death and still rejoice is a people that
cannot be defeated by any force or fear.”  “Any force or fear.” 
(Applause.)

That resilience and that capacity to find faith and joy despite
centuries of persecution and pain is your light, like the light of
miracles throughout the Jewish history, from the menorah oil lasting
eight days to the miracle of Israel itself. 

Look, let me close with this.  Throughout my life, rabbis, Jewish
friends, colleagues have always been there for me and my family when
we’ve gone through very tough times — and I mean it sincerely — been
there on our doorstep, in our home with us.  They taught us so much
about the optimistic spirit of the Jewish people. 

Above all, they taught me one thing we can never lose: hope.  Hope,
hope, hope.  I’ve seen the power of that hope in my own life and in the
life of our nation. 

Next week, you’ll light the eight candles in your menorahs.  My final
Hanukkah message to you is this — as president — this is: to hold onto
that hope, shine your light — shine the light of optimism, and above
all, keep the faith.  Keep the faith.

May God bless you.  Happy Hanukkah.

And now I turn it over to Rabbi Cosgrove.  (Applause.)

Rabbi Cosgrove, who — by the way, who I visited his — as I was — his
synagogue in New York.  He was still nice to me afterward too. 

Rabbi, it’s all yours, kid.  Go get them.  (Laughter and applause.) 

8:19 P.M. EST
