---
date: '2024-12-02'
published_time: 2024-12-02 19:51:26-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/12/02/remarks-by-first-lady-jill-biden-at-the-unveiling-of-the-2024-white-house-holiday-theme-and-decor/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "REMARKS BY FIRST LADY JILL BIDEN AT THE UNVEILING OF THE 2024 WHITE HOUSE\
  \ HOLIDAY THEME AND\_DECOR"
---
 
East Room

12:54 P.M. EST

THE FIRST LADY:  Hello.  How are you?  (Applause.)  (Laughs.)  Hi. 
Well, gosh.  
  
In the swirl of the end of each year, we hope to begin to turn toward
our hope for tomorrow.

So, as we celebrate our finally — final holiday season here in the White
House, we are guided by the values that we hold sacred: faith, family,
and service to our country, kindness toward all of our neighbors, and
the power of community. 

So, that’s what inspired this holiday theme, what I think of this time
of year: “A Season of Peace and Light.”  
  
We begin with light from the stunning, rotating star above the East
entrance, as when you all came in.  And walking in, we’re embraced by
the sparkling spirit of the season, as light-filled greenery led us to
the first Christmas tree display, dedicated to our Gold Star Families. 
(Applause.)

And this year’s Gold Star Tree exhibit is constructed of six large stars
— I think you all saw them by now, right? — representing each branch of
our military.  I thought it was just beautiful walking in and seeing the
gold and leading to that tree.  You know, the names of fallen service
members are written on the gold star ornaments on the accompanying
Christmas trees. 

And the display honors the heroic men and women of our country, of our
nation’s military who have laid down their lives for our country, those
who are missing in action, and the families who carry on their
legacies. 

So, may God bless our troops and their families.  (Applause.)

Then chiming bells call us to the East Colonnade, where bells of all
sizes float above us and line every archway, filling the air with the
sounds of the season.   
  
In the East Garden Room, a horse-drawn sleigh pulls us into the historic
mansion.  It was really cute, wasn’t it?  (Laughter.)  And there, we
enter another hall of light as lush garlands of green envelope us in the
tranquility of nature.

In the Library, a twirling forest of vintage ceramic trees shines with
the color of the holidays.  And walking in, I was taken back to my
childhood, because when the — (laughs) — when that tree first came out —
so you know it’s an antique — (laughter) — we knew Christmas had become
— had begun. 

So, across the hall, in the Vermeil Room, we enjoy trees of stacked bows
and vibrant silk flowers.

And artisanal breads spill out of the China Room, and we can almost
smell their warm aroma filling the air with memories.  
  
Earlier this year, I opened the Diplomatic \[Reception\] Room — it was
the first time o- — to be on the tour, so — the expanded White House
tour.  So, I hope you saw — those of you who were here other years, I
hope you saw the difference.  You know, I tried to make the tour come
alive.  It was important to me, as an educator.  
  
So, this holiday season, for the first time, guests will be able to
enjoy that space, and it features the White House Historical Association
ornament honoring President Carter.  God bless him.  (Applause.)

Now, look above us.  Here in the East Room, a reflective canopy wraps us
in a peaceful snowfall.

In the Green Room, a rainbow of glass ornaments fills the room with a
burst of color and light.

And just outside the Green Room, we find the Official White House
Menorah, made during Joe’s first year in the White House fo- — the
carpentry shop made that themselves.  Make sure that you see it.  It’s
truly beautiful.  And, you know, it came from wood on the — from the
White House grounds in the renovation of this house 70 years ago. 
That’s pretty incredible.

So, in the Blue Room — (laughs) — you know, you can’t help but smile
when you see that tree.  (Laughter.)  And as the animals move up and
down and — you know, and we see the holiday candy treats lining the
tree, don’t you feel like you’re a kid again?  And sitting on a
carousel, you know, is that world of light just spinning around us.

So, the White House Chris- — official Christmas tree also features the
name of every state and territory and the District of Columbia as you
look around the top of it.  And each year, I love watching all the
visitors — and you’ll probably see it yourselves when you walk in there
— looking for your home state and, you know, seeing your faces light up
as you find, like, “Hey, there’s Delaware” or Pennsylvania, New Jersey.

In the Red Room, glowing gifts from under the Christmas tree lift —
light the messages of peace above.

And for the State Dining Room, we invited military families from the USS
Delaware and the Gab- — USS Gabrielle Giffords, the two Navy vessels
that I have the honor of sponsoring, to create some paper garlands
hanging throughout the room.  I thought they looked so beautiful.

And adorning the sparkling Christmas trees beside them are
self-portraits by students from across the country.  (Applause.)  And I
know that some of the teachers — some of their teachers are here and
they helped decorate the tree.  So, how many of you are teachers? 
(Applause.)  How many of you are teachers?  Lots of teachers.  I love
that.  Because teachers always get stuff done.  (Applause.)  (Laughs.)  
  
So, the trees are amazing.  
  
Of course, the room also features this year’s incredible gingerbread
house.  I love that.  (Applause.)  Didn’t you see it light up?  I mean,
it was just so beautiful.  And did you see the ice-skating rink right in
front of it?  
  
And Susie and Carlo did — you know, you did such an amazing job.  So,
thank you for creating that.  (Applause.)  
  
And this year’s display captures the light of our theme, from the
glowing windows to the bright star on top of the house — of the
gingerbread house.

And in the Cross Hall behind me, spectacular flocks of hand-cut peace
doves fly across the sky.  (Applause.)  I mean, it th- — really, how —
how beautiful is that?

And finally, don’t miss that teddy bear driving the vintage red truck. 
(Laughter.)

Now, to you, the people who brought this vision to life, our volunteers:
This — (applause) — yes, all of you — this would not be possible without
your work.  It’s been incredible to watch all of you transform this
space year after year.

And you traded time with families for hours gluing, you know, with hot —
hot glue guns and — you know, and Thanksgiving wris- — leftovers for
tired wrists from wiring ornaments to the trees, because, you know, you
can’t just hang it; it has to be, you know, hung perfectly. 
(Laughter.)  I know, some of you are perfectionists.  That’s okay. 
(Laughter.)

And some of — and you have to wrap them around and around the branch so
the ornaments stay on, because you know thousands of kids are coming
through here and they’re going to try to pull them off, so you have to
make sure that they’re secure.  They always try too.  I mean, you know
— 

But it’s during those long afternoons when your hands are sore from
cutting the ribbons just so, from hanging the greenery, that’s when
these lifelong friendships are made.  And that’s when the magic happens.

So, I’m already hearing about the text chains you’re creating to keep in
touch.  (Laughs.)  I wish you could add my name to those.  (Laughter.)  

So, thank you for everything that you’ve done.

To Bryan Rafanelli, who’s back there in the corner — Bryan — (applause)
— love you — and his team, I’m so grateful for your vision and
leadership.  And to all the incredible decorators who were here, like
Glitterville, BMF, Silver Lining, Cheree Berry Paper & Design, Frost
Chicago, thank you for dedicating your time and talents to this design.

I’m also grateful to the National Confectioners Association for their
partnership and unyielding support.  (Applause.)  Thank — so, let’s
thank all of them.  (Applause.)

And there’s another person who helped bring the magic of our theme to
life: the incredible illustrator of our 2024 White House Holiday G- —
Holiday Guide, Zoe Ranucci.  Zoe, where are you?  Oh, there she is. 
(Applause.)   
  
You’ll have to say hello to everybody, Zoe, because they so appreciate
everything you’ve done.  Thank you for creating the beautiful artistry
in your design. 

So, these last four years, you know, there’s a group of people who have
helped us stay in touch with the American people, and they’re our
correspondence volunteers.  (Applause.)  So, you can imagine how much I
appreciate them, as an English teacher, and their writing skills,
because I teach writing.  So, all of you are an essential part of our
democracy, and I’m so grateful for your work.

Thank you all for your heart and for everything you’ve done to make this
possible — the people’s house.

So, for Joe and for me, these are the final holidays at the White
House.  So, standing with all of you, I remember the first time we
walked across this threshold right over here on Inauguration Day, and
the gravitational pull of history guided us forward, wrapping us in the
centuries of stories that live here in this house.

Then we were finally able to welcome all the visitors.  And on public
tours and on receptions and as volunteers decorated during the holidays
during the four years, your laughter and ideas harmonized with the
echoes of the past.  And in those moments, this became more than a
historic house.  You made it a home, alive with purpose and possibility.

And that’s why, each year, we’ve opened the doors of the people’s house
wider and wider so we can bring the light of more Americans into these
halls. 

It’s been the honor of our lives to serve as your first family.  May our
nation be blessed with peace and light this holiday season.

Merry Christmas.  Happy Holidays.  We love you all.

Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Love you.  (Applause.)

1:07 P.M. EST
