---
date: '2024-12-16'
modified_time: 2024-12-17 11:06:37-05:00
published_time: 2024-12-16 11:04:45-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/12/16/on-the-record-press-gaggle-by-white-house-national-security-communications-advisor-john-kirby-37/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "On-the-Record Press Gaggle by White\_House National Security Communications\
  \ Advisor John\_Kirby"
---
 
Via Teleconference

4:47 P.M. EST

MODERATOR:  Hi, everyone.  Thanks for joining our gaggle late in the day
today.  Kirby has some words here at the top, and then we’ll get into as
many questions as we can. 

MR. KIRBY:  Hey, everybody.  Good afternoon.  Sorry for the late
afternoon gaggle.  Obviously, lots going on here.  So, again, thanks for
joining late.

I do want to start by expressing our deep condolences to all the victims
and the families, and certainly the community of Madison, today.  Just
horrific news, and news that no family, no parent, no sibling, no son or
daughter ever wants to hear.  So, just terrible. 

And we will continue to stay focused on the community there in Madison,
and we’ll obviously offer whatever help may be required or needed of
local and state authorities. 

I can tell you that the President has been briefed on the school
shooting there and that senior White House officials are, as you would
expect we would be, in touch with our local counterparts there in
Madison to provide whatever support that they need. 

Now, I want to address a couple of more things here before we take your
questions, and first to the continued interest in drones. 

And just at the outset, I think it’s important to remember a bit of
context here.  There are more than 1 million drones that are lawfully
registered with the Federal Aviation Administration here in the United
States, and there are thousands of commercial, hobbyist, and law
enforcement drones that are lawfully in the sky on any given day.  That
is the ecosystem that we are dealing with.  And it is legal.  It is
proper.  In fact, in many cases, these drones provide valuable services,
both on the commercial side and on the law enforcement, public safety
side. 

And with the technology evolving as it is, we have every expectation
that the number of drones in the skies over the United States is going
to increase over time.

Now, with respect to what’s going on in and around New Jersey, the FBI
has received now tips of some 5,000 reported drone sightings in the last
few weeks, about 100 of which they felt needed to be followed up on.  So
out of 5,000 tips, they did the analysis and determined that about 100
required following up on.

We also have federal government resources and personnel supporting state
and local officials as they investigate these reports.  We’re obviously
quickly working to help state and local authorities prioritize and
follow up on the leads that are still being followed up on.  As
Secretary Mayorkas said, we have sent additional advanced detection
technology to the region, and of course, we’ve sent some trained visual
observers as well.

Having closely examined the data, having closely looked at the tips and
collated them as best we can from concerned citizens, we assess that the
sightings to date include a combination of lawful commercial drones,
hobbyist drones, and law enforcement drones, as well as manned
fixed-wing aircraft, helicopters, and even stars that were mistakenly
reported as drones.  We have not identified anything anomalous or any
national security or public safety risk over the civilian airspace in
New Jersey or other states in the Northeast. 

The work continues.  So that said, we obviously  
recognize the concern among many communities.  We continue to support
state and local authorities, as I said, with technology and law
enforcement support.  And we will continue to follow up, as appropriate,
on the leads that are still active. 

But I want to stress again: Our assessment at this stage is that the
activity represents commercial, hobbyist, law enforcement drones, all
operating legally and lawfully, and/or civilian aviation aircraft. 

As we continue to work through the leads that are out there, we’ll
continue to share what we can.  And I would add that this assessment
that I just read out is coming from law enforcement officials. 

I want to add that we urge Congress to enact counter-UAS — unmanned
aerial systems — legislation that has been proposed and repeatedly
requested by this administration that would extend and expand existing
counter-drone authorities to help identify and counter any threat that
does emerge.  There are gaps and seams, for instance, between the
various government agencies — federal, local and state.  And this
counter-UAV, counter-drone legislation would help us close some of those
gaps and seams.  So we need Congress to act. 

And so, when Congress reconvenes in January, we’re going to be calling
on them to put in place a bipartisan <s>task force</s> \[commission\] to
examine congestion in the skies and to help set appropriate rules to
address the public’s concerns.

Now, additionally, there have been a limited number of visual sightings
of drones over military facilities in New Jersey and elsewhere, much of
which is, of course, restricted airspace.  Such sightings near or over
DOD installations are not new.  And DOD takes unauthorized access over
its airspace seriously, as you would expect them to do, and they
coordinate closely with federal and law enforcement authorities as
appropriate.  And they are actively engaged with local commanders to
ensure that there are appropriate detection and mitigation measures in
place. 

And lastly, if I could, turning to North Korea and Russia. 

Throughout this conflict, we’ve seen North Korean support for Russia’s
illegal and unprovoked war, including the transfer of missiles,
artillery ammunition.  And, in October, of course, we announced that
more than 1,000 North Korean troops were deployed to Russia on a
purported training mission. 

In reality, Russia, due to Ukraine’s strong defense, and out of military
desperation, sought additional support to facilitate and to perpetuate
its war. 

Over the past few days, we have seen these North Korean soldiers move
from the second lines on the battlefield to the front lines on the
battlefield meant to be actively engaged in combat operations.  It’s not
surprising — and of course, it’s also not surprising that now North
Korean soldiers are suffering losses on the battlefield in response to
Russia’s escalation, which, of course, the introduction of North Korean
soldiers represents in terms of escalation.

The United States has announced new assistance, including the use of
long-range capabilities to degrade North Korean and Russian forces
before they attack.  And we have continued to surge security assistance,
announcing two drawdowns in just recent weeks, and one USAI package.

Today, the Biden-Harris administration is announcing new sanctions on
nine DPRK — North Korean — individuals and seven entities, including
banks and shipping companies, all of which is over, of course, Kim Jong
Un’s support for Russia’s war in Ukraine, as well as the DPRK’s
continued ballistic missile testing. 

These sanctions contribute toward broader efforts to degrade the DPRK’s
ability to continue generating revenue for its weapons of mass
destruction program and for providing munitions and ballistic missiles
to Russia for use against Ukraine. 

We’re going to continue to hold accountable all actors who facilitate
financially and militarily Russia’s illegal and brutal war in Ukraine. 
And it goes without saying, or at least I hope it goes without saying,
that we stand by Ukraine and the Ukrainian people as they defend their
freedom, their territorial integrity, their sovereignty, their citizens,
their lives, and their livelihoods.  That’s been a consistent theme,
it’s been a consistent effort by this administration since Mr. Putin
decided to cross the line in February of ‘22.  And I can assure you,
with every day that we have left in this administration, we’re going to
make good on that commitment. 

With that, I can take your questions.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our first question will go to Nandita with
Reuters.

Q    Hi.  Can you hear me?

MODERATOR:  Yep.

Q    Thank you.  I wanted to ask about President-elect Trump’s comments
on Ukraine today.  He’s obviously raised doubts about President Biden’s
strategy of sending long-range missiles to Ukraine.  Today he said
Ukraine has to agree to a deal.  I’m curious what you think of Trump’s
comments and what they mean for President Zelenskyy and the future of
Ukraine.

MR. KIRBY:  I’m not going to engage in a public back-and-forth here, but
I do want to make a couple of points. 

There are things you’ve heard me say before, but, my goodness, if you
need to hear, I’ll say it again: Nothing about Ukraine without Ukraine. 
We’re not going to have talks about them without them involved.  We’re
not going to force their hand in terms of what their next steps might
be. 

President Zelenskyy was elected by the Ukrainian people to be their
representative in the executive branch of their government, and he is. 
And he gets to decide if and when there’s going to be a negotiation. 

Now, we all believe there should be a negotiated end to this war. 
That’s probably the most likely and the best way it’s going to end.  We
recognize that.  But President Zelenskyy gets to determine under what
terms, what conditions, when, and how he wants to engage in
negotiations.  And as we have made clear to him in the past, so I can
today: When he makes that decision, as long as President Biden is
Commander-in-Chief, he will find in this administration a supporter as
he moves forward to negotiating.  But he gets to determine that.  And if
he does do it, he gets to determine the conditions.

What we’re going to — the third thing I’ll say is that between now and
that day, whenever that day is, we’re going to make sure that his army
has what they need to continue to succeed on the battlefield and to push
the Russians back and to make it harder on Mr. Putin to continue to
fight this war. 

I mean, even as we’re talking here, it is true that the Russians have
made some plodding progress in the east, and it is true that they are
going after Ukrainian lines in and around Kursk, but they’re doing it
with North Korean soldiers, because that’s how desperate he is.  And the
progress that they’re making in the east, yes, not denying that they’re
making progress, but it’s coming at a heavy cost for Russian soldiers as
well. 

One of the things that Mr. Putin has had to buy a lot of in terms — and
he’s bought a lot of missiles, he’s bought drones, he’s bought artillery
shells, and he’s getting them from all kinds of different places.  He’s
also had to buy a lot of body bags.  And I think that shouldn’t be
forgotten.  And that’s it.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Aamer with the AP.

Q    Hey.  Thank you, John.  One question I had was: Did the
administration consult with President-elect Trump’s team before the
decision to loosen restrictions on the use of American-provided ATACMS? 

And then, just secondly, on your point about North Koreans now being
seen moving up to the front lines, is there anything specific triggering
this?  And is there an assessment of how many North Korean troops have
been injured or lost thus far?  Thank you.

MR. KIRBY:  So, let me take your second one first.  I don’t know that we
have an exact number, but we do believe that they have suffered some
significant losses, killed and wounded, but it’s difficult for me to put
an actual number on it.  I would say certainly in the realm of dozens,
several dozens. 

And we’re just now starting to see this movement of them from the second
line to the front line.  So it’s a fairly new development, Aamer, and we
might be able to have a little bit more granularity as days go on, but I
wouldn’t have put it in this opening statement if we didn’t assess that
these were fairly significant losses.  Again, we just don’t have a hard
number on it, but just the figures that we are seeing and trying to
triangulate tell us that, again, this has not been an insignificant set
of losses for these guys. 

And, look, we said it at the time: If they want to enter the fight, they
do so at their own peril, and now they’re learning what that means.

On your first question: Look, the conversations that we were having
inside the administration about ATACMS started before the election.  All
I can assure you is that in the conversations we’ve had with them since
the election, and we’ve had it at various levels, we have articulated to
them the logic behind it, the thinking behind it, why we were doing it,
and to stress to them that this was in response, quite frankly, to the
North Korean troops being put on the battlefield, which they did before
the election.

Q    John, just real briefly, is it incorrect when President-elect Trump
said that he wasn’t consulted?

MR. KIRBY:  Again, Aamer, I’m not going to get into a back-and-forth
with the President-elect or his team.  I can only tell you the decision
about ATACMS was made before the election, before we had a result, and
it was made internal to this administration, as it should be.  And it
was made because of a decision by Putin to use North Korean troops,
which was a decision he made before the election.  So, all that happened
pre-election.

Post-election, we have had the appropriate level of conversations with
the incoming team about various national security issues, including the
war in Ukraine, to explain what we’re doing, what we’re seeing, why
we’re doing it, you know, so that, as I said the other day — I think I
said this in the briefing room — there should be no decision we are
taking or that we have taken in recent weeks that should come as a
surprise to them.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Francesca with USA
Today.

Q    Thanks so much for doing this.  I had a question about something
else that the President-elect had said today.  Kirby, he said that the
U.S. military and both President Biden know where the drones are coming
and going from.  He indicated perhaps that you know more than you’re
letting on, and said that you should stop keeping people in suspense,
that you should tell them what you know.  Could you just respond to that
and whether the administration does know more, whether the military and
the White House do know more about where the drones are coming and going
from?

MR. KIRBY:  I’ve talked to you guys last week.  We did a backgrounder
over the weekend.  And I’m talking to you all today.  And today, as I
think you hopefully picked up in my opening statement, we are now able
to tell you what our assessment is to date, and our assessment is to
date, as I indicated, what we believe these things are. 

Now, again, that’s the assessment to date.  So I would say that we are
making a very good-faith effort to be as open and direct with all of you
and with the American people as we can.  And that will continue.  That
will continue all throughout the coming days.  There’s absolutely no
effort to be anything other than as upfront as we can be. 

Now, what we’re not going to do is speculate, and we’re not going to
hypothesize.  We’re not going to provide content that we can’t be sure
is accurate. 

So, you know, I recognize that some of the criticism over the last few
days has been that we haven’t said more of what we know.  It’s because
we didn’t have as much information as we do now after a few more days of
extra resources, extra personnel, extra analysis. 

And so, that’s why I’m coming out here at 4:30 on a Monday to let you
know what we’ve learned.  And we’re going to continue to do that,
because we know there are, you know, ongoing concerns about this. 

But I want to stress again: Please, if you do anything in your coverage,
please make sure that you remind people that there are over a million
legal drones in the country and that thousands of them are flying around
on any given day, legally, lawfully, performing valuable services,
including for the betterment of citizens on the ground.  It’s okay to
fly drones.  It’s legal to do it, you know, if you’re registered with
the FAA, and our assessment is that the vast, vast majority are. 

And the other thing I’d ask you to please keep front and center is that
we’re watching — we’re monitoring this in real time and analyzing it in
dang near real time.  And still today, on Monday, we have not seen
anything that indicates a threat to national security or a public safety
risk.  And obviously, if we did, we would, as appropriate, take the
right action, do the right things, execute the right policies, and be as
transparent with the American people about it as we could.

Q    Kirby, if I just could really quickly, not to get into intelligence
assessments, but is there anything that you’re seeing in the
intelligence that perhaps he was referring to that you’re not able to
tell us about right now?

MR. KIRBY:  No.  I mean, the short answer to that is no.

Look, you know that I’m always careful when I’m asked about intelligence
assessments one way or another.  But if there was something there that
would indicate — that would contradict my statement that there was no
national security threat at play right now that we know of, or a public
safety risk, obviously I wouldn’t say it that way.  You know, it’s not
like there’s a bit of intel out there that I’m obfuscating or obscuring
from you. 

If we had information, intelligence or otherwise, that told us that
there was a national security threat posed by this drone activity, I
would say that.  Maybe I wouldn’t be able to tell you exactly what the
threat is or who it’s from or what the purpose is, but I would.  And I
can’t — I just can’t say that to you honestly, because we haven’t seen
it.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Kayla with CNN.

Q    Thank you.  And thank you, Admiral, for doing this. 

First, I just wanted to see if you could elaborate at all on the nature
of the discussions between the White House and Trump teams on Ukraine,
in which the President-elect has said he wants to see a ceasefire on day
one. 

And second, I wanted to see if you could comment on the impeachment of
President Yoon in South Korea, what it means for the alliance, and
whether the U.S. believes, as some in the country do, that President
Yoon should be charged with insurrection.  Thanks.

MR. KIRBY:  I will defer to the incoming team to speak to whatever
policies that they want to pursue from a national security perspective. 
That’s the appropriate thing.  You know, they should speak to whatever
decisions that they believe they’re going to make or approaches that
they want to take.  I mean, that’s not for me to comment on or to go
into any depth on.

I would just tell you — well, I don’t want to just repeat what I said
before.  I’d point you back to my previous answer.  Nothing about
Ukraine without Ukraine.  We want to put President Zelenskyy in the best
possible position so that if and when he’s ready to negotiate an end to
this war, he can do it from a position of strength, from a position of
some leverage.  And that’s why we continue to flow so much security
assistance to him in these closing weeks of the administration.  And
that’s going to continue.

What the next team decides to do or how they want to handle that, that
really would be for them to speak to.  And I just don’t think it’s
useful or productive for me to go beyond that. 

Obviously, we continue to watch events in South Korea very, very
closely.  A significant ally.  Remains a significant ally.  An alliance
that is incredibly healthy now after the result of these last four years
of really working on our alliances and partnerships in the Pacific. 

As you know, the President spoke with the acting president, Han
Duck-soo, over the weekend — I think it was on Saturday evening — to
congratulate him and also to reaffirm our commitment to the South Korean
people, to the alliance.

I will not speak to internal domestic issues inside South Korea, your
question about whether he should be charged with insurrection.  Those
kinds of things are for South Korean officials, South Korean
legislators, the South Korean people to determine, not the United
States.  All I’ll say is that, as the President said to Acting President
Han Duck-soo, this is an important relationship for us, it’s a terrific
alliance.  The United States is going to stay committed to it.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Cheyenne with ABC.

Q    Hi.  Thank you for doing this.  The President-elect also mentioned
changing a trip to Bedminster.  Do you have any reason to believe that
Bedminster, New Jersey, has been at all at risk with any of these drone
sightings?

And also, you’ve talked about the thousands of drones flying around
legally on any given day.  What’s your explanation for why this became a
concern just recently in New Jersey?  Do you think it’s just a chain
reaction?

MR. KIRBY:  I don’t know the answer to that.  I don’t.  But I can tell
you we’re working hard to triangulate all of these sightings.  And as I
said, of the 5,000 that the FBI took in, and the local law enforcement,
there were about 100 that were deemed — that required, I should say, to
follow up on. 

So, I don’t know.  I can’t explain the number of sightings.  Many of
them are duplicative.  In other words, you might get, like — this is an
example, not — a hypothetical example — but you might get 10 sightings
of a single aircraft.  So that counts as 10 sightings, but it may only
be one aircraft.  So, as this has become a story locally and certainly
through the media, more and more people are looking skyward, and more
and more people are seeing things, and more and more people are calling
them in and taking video of them.  But in a lot of instances, it turns
out to be the same thing seen by multiple people.  But I just can’t
explain.  I don’t know.

But your question, I think, gets to why I made those comments at the
beginning: to remind people of the sheer size and scope of unmanned
aerial systems that are flying legally and lawfully every day over this
country.  And again, it’s to our benefit, commercially and even from a
public safety and law enforcement perspective.  So, that there are lots
of drones in the sky I think is without dispute, and that the vast, vast
majority of them are doing good things for people on the ground also
should not be in dispute. 

As for the issue of Bedminster, it is already designated as restricted
air space, so it is unlawful to fly in that space, with or without it
being a manned aircraft, without the FAA’s approval.  So it’s already
restricted.  I can’t speak to the President-elect’s travel or what he’s
decided to do or where he’s decided to go, but I think it’s important to
remember that it is already restricted airspace.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Nadia.

Q    Thank you.  I have a couple of questions.  First, the mother of
Austin Tice has sent a letter to Prime Minister Netanyahu, asking him to
hold Israeli strikes outside of Damascus because she believes that
Austin Tice might be held in a jail there.  Do you think that Israeli
strikes might affect his chances of being found alive?  And I have
another question.

MR. KIRBY:  I really don’t have anything for you on that one, Nadia. 
That’s a — you know, I think that’s a question better put to the Tice
family and to the IDF. 

I would just tell you that we continue to work very, very hard to try to
find out where Austin is, how Austin is, and stemming from that
information, what we can do to try to get him home.  And sadly,
regrettably, I just don’t have additional detail to provide for you on
that today.  We’re still working this very, very hard. 

Q    Okay.  Also, the President-elect Trump said today that Turkey holds
all the keys to what’s happening in Syria.  In fact, he’s insinuating
that Turkey is a major player of what’s taken on unfolding events in
Syria, and he praised President Erdoğan as a smart guy.  What’s your
assessment of Turkey’s role on what we have seen so far in the fall of
the Bashar al-Assad regime?

MR. KIRBY:  There’s no question that the Turks are significant players
here in whatever the outcome in Syria is going to be, as they have been
over the course of the last 14 years.  And that’s why Secretary Blinken
went to Turkey last week.  It’s why we continue to have conversations
with them at all different levels about what they’re doing, what their
concerns are.

As I have said in the past, they have legitimate concerns with a
terrorist threat along that border with Syria.  Turkish citizens have
fallen victim to terrorist activities there.  You can’t very well blame
the Turks for being concerned about that threat. 

On the other hand, we have a relationship with the Syrian Democratic
Forces to go after ISIS.  We want to keep that focus of them and us, and
so we have certainly talked about our concerns with respect to that
mission set as it relates to Turkey’s military operations on the other
side of that border. 

And if there’s a need — as there’s a need to deconflict and to work
through some of those overlapping concerns, well, we’ll do that because
Turkey is, as you rightly said, a NATO Ally. 

So they have had, and legitimately so, have had a large interest in
what’s going on in Syria.  We recognize that.  We also recognize that
sometimes their goals aren’t exactly the same as ours, and so we talk to
them about that, and we’ll continue to do so.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Alex with the Wall
Street Journal.

Q    Thanks so much.  Real quickly — Kirby, I noticed you said that this
assessment is coming from law enforcement.  Just checking if any
intelligence agencies, or especially military intel, is part of what
went into this assessment, knowing that some of the drones went over
Langley and Wright-Patt.

And just trying to get a sense of, you know, how did the administration
work to get this info.  You mentioned, you know, you didn’t have it
before.  Now you do.  Sort of what went into this?  Is this like — you
know, were there a bunch of meetings?  Did FBI send a bunch of folks
out?  Can you just give us some detail on how you’ve gotten to this
point now in the assessment? Thanks. 

MR. KIRBY:  I kind of already did, Alex.  I said we surged resources,
detection capabilities.  We surged personnel, including visual
observers, from federal agencies, predominantly DHS.  The military, the
Defense Department has surged some additional detection capabilities,
certainly with respect to Naval Weapons Station Earle and Picatinny
Arsenal. 

So, the assessment I was able to offer today was really the result of
the collective action of all of these efforts, including continued work
by local law enforcement and state officials. 

The work continues.  This is our assessment to date.  We will continue
to look at this as hard as we can.  But it is really the result of an
influx of resources and personnel applied to this particular problem
set. 

I think the Pentagon already spoke to Wright-Patterson.  There was no —
as I understand it, no disruption of operations.  I think some of the
original reporting out of there was lacking some context that I think
the Pentagon added to and provided. 

And, look, on intelligence, I would just say that this is a true
interagency effort, and we’re all working really hard to apply the right
resources to the problem set and to be as open and transparent with
people as we can be.  And I think I best leave it at that.

Again, I want to foot-stomp what I said earlier.  It’s important for
people to understand the ecosystem of drones over the skies of the
United States.  I mean, there’s a lot of activity.  And again, the vast,
vast, vast majority of it is legal and lawful.  And we believe — again,
to date, our assessment is that the sightings thus far have been of that
ilk.  But we’ll continue to keep looking.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  We have time for one more question, and we’ll go
to Robin Wright.

Q    Thank you, John.  Can I take you further afield to Syria and ask
you: Has there been any more contact between the United States and HTS?

And secondly, can you give us a sense of what Iran is doing in Syria? 
The head of the IRGC said that there have been evacuations of 4,000
citizens from Iran.  Do you have a sense of what Iran is doing in the
aftermath of Assad’s demise or what it’s planning to do?  Thank you.

MR. KIRBY:  I can tell you, on HTS, as Secretary Blinken indicated, we
have been in direct contact with HTS, as we have been with other
groups.  We also have indirect ways of communicating with all those
groups as well, and we’re pulling on all those levers to make sure that
we can very closely monitor this transition to what we hope will be —
well, we hope it will be a peaceful transition, but to a stable, secure,
sovereign Syria that meets the aspirations of its people. 

But I don’t have any additional or specifics about conversations with
HTS, except to reiterate what Secretary Blinken said.  We have been in
touch with them and I suspect we will be going forward. 

I also think, Robin, you shouldn’t — no one should expect that we’re
going to get into a detailed readout of every single conversation that
we have with every rebel group or opposition leader as it unfolds.  I
wouldn’t expect that you’re going to see that. 

And as for Iran, you know, I would be lying to you if I said we had, you
know, perfect visibility on everything that Iranian leaders are doing or
deciding when it comes to Syria.  I can go so far as to say we certainly
have seen indications that the Iranians are pulling people and resources
out of Syria.  That is true.  But at what scale and on what timeline,
it’s difficult for us to be very granular on that.  We just don’t have
perfect visibility.  But it’s clear to us that they certainly weren’t
willing or able to come to Assad’s rescue.  And in the aftermath of his
departure, it’s clear to us that they are reevaluating, I think is the
best way to put it, their presence in Syria and have already started to
move some people and some resources out. 

That’s really as far as I can go.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  And thank you, everyone, for joining us today. 
As always, if we weren’t able to get to you, please reach out to the NSC
press distro, and we’ll get back to you as soon as we can.  Thanks all.

5:24 P.M. EST
