---
date: '2024-12-08'
modified_time: 2024-12-09 11:31:57-05:00
published_time: 2024-12-08 11:31:35-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/12/08/remarks-by-president-biden-on-the-latest-developments-in-syria/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on the Latest Developments in\_Syria"
---
 
Roosevelt Room

1:39 P.M. EST

THE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon.  A lot happening in the Middle East.

After 13 years of civil war in Syria and more than half a century of
brutal authoritarian rule by Bashar Assad and his father before him,
rebel forces have forced Assad to resign his office and flee the
country.  We’re not sure where he is, but the- — there’s word that he’s
in Moscow. 

At long last, the Assad regime has fallen.  This regime brutalized and
tortured and killed literally hundreds of thousands of innocent
Syrians. 

A fall of the regime is a fundamental act of justice.  It’s a moment of
historic opportunity for the long-suffering people of Syria to build a
better future for their proud country. 

It’s also a moment of risk and uncertainty.  As we all turn to the
question of what comes next, the United States will work with our
partners and the stakeholders in Syria to help them seize an opportunity
to manage the risks. 

You know, for years, the main backers of Assad have been Iran,
Hezbollah, and Russia.  But over the last week, their support collapsed
— all three of them — because all three of them are far weaker today
than they were when I took office.  And let’s remember why. 

After Hamas attacked Israel on October the 7th, 2023, when much of the
world responded with horror, Iran and its proxies chose to launch a
multi-front war against Israel.  That was a historic mistake on Iran’s
part. 

Today, Iran’s main territorial proxy, Hezbollah, is also on its back. 

Only 12 days ago, I spoke from the Rose Garden about the ceasefire deal
in Lebanon — a deal that was only possible because Hezbollah has been
badly degraded.  Meanwhile, Hamas has been da- — badly degraded as
well. 

Iran’s own military capabilities have been weakened.  Iran tried two
times to attack Israel, and the United States and — built a coalition of
countries to directly defend Israel and help defeat those attacks. 

All this made possible for Iran and Hezbollah to continue to prop up —
impossible, I should say, for them to prop up the Assad regime. 

Additionally, Russia’s support for Assad also failed.  And that’s
because Ukraine, backed by our American allies, has put up a wall of
resistance against the invading Russian forces, inflicting massive
damage on the Russian forces.  And that has left Russia unable to
protect its main ally in the Middle East. 

(Coughs.)  Excuse my cold. 

The upshot for all this is, for the first time ever, neither Russia nor
Iran nor Hezbollah could defend this abhorrent regime in Syria.  And
this is a direct result of the blows that Ukraine, Israel have delivered
upon their own self-defense with unflagging support of the United
States. 

And over the past four years, my administration pursued a clear,
principled policy towards Syria. 

First, we made clear from the start sanctions on Ira- — on Ira- — Assad
would remain in place unless he engaged seriously in a political process
to end the civil war, as outlined under the U.N. Security Council
resolution passed in 2015.  But Assad refused, so we carried out a
comprehensive sanction program against him and all those responsible for
atrocities against the Syrian people. 

Second, we maintained our military presence in Syria.  Our counter-ISIS
— to counter the support of local partners as well on the ground — their
partners — never ceding an inch of territory, taking out leaders of
ISIS, ensuring that ISIS can never establish a safe haven there again. 

Third, we’ve supported Israel’s freedom of action against Iranian
networks in Syria and against actors aligned with Iran who transported
lethal aid to Lebanon, and, when necessary, ordered the use of military
force against Iranian networks to protect U.S. forces.  

Our approach has shifted the balance of power in the Middle East. 
Through this combination of support for our partners, sanctions, and
diplomacy and targeted military force when necessary, we now see new
opportunities opening up for the people of Syria and for the entire
region. 

Looking ahead, the United States will do the following: First, we’ll
support Syria’s neighbors — including Jordan, Lebanon, Iraq, and Israel
— should any threat arise from Syria during this period of transition. 
I will speak with leaders of the region in the coming days.  I had long
discussions with all of our people earlier this morning.  And I’ll send
senior officials from my administration to the region as well. 

Second, we will help stability — ensure stability in eastern Syria,
protecting any personnel — our personnel against any threats.  And it
will remain — our mission against ISIS will be maintained, including the
security of detention facilities where ISIS fighters are being held as
prisoners.  We’re clear-eyed about the fact that ISIS will try to take
advantage of any vacuum to reestablish its capability and to create a
safe haven.  We will not let that happen.  

In fact, just today, U.S. forces conducted a dozen of precision strikes
— air strikes within Syria targeting ISIS camps and ISIS operatives. 

Third, we will engage with all Syrian groups, including within the
process led by the United Nations, to establish a transition away from
the Assad regime toward independent, sovereign — an independent —
independent — I want to say it again — sovereign Syria with a new
constitution, a new government that serves all Syrians.  And this
process will be determined by the Syrian people themselves. 

And the United States will do whatever we can to support them, including
through humanitarian relief, to help restore Syria after more than a
decade of war and generations of brutality by the Assad family.

And finally, we will remain vigilant.  Make no mistake, some of the
rebel groups that took down Assad have their own grim record of
terrorism and humanit- — human right abuses.  We’ve taken note of
statements by the leaders of these rebel groups in recent days.  And
we’re — they’re saying the right things now, but as they take on greater
responsibility, we will assess not just their words, but their actions. 

And as — we are mindful — we are mindful that there are Americans in
Syria, including those who reside there, as well as Austin Tice, who was
taken captive more than 12 years ago.  We remain committed to returning
him to his family. 

As I’ve said, this is a moment of considerable risk and uncertainty, but
I also believe this is the best opportunity in generations for Syrians
to forge their own future free of opposition. 

It’s also an opportunity, through far from certain — though it’s far
from certain, for a more secure and prosperous Middle East, where our
friends are safe, where our enemies are contained.  And it would be a
waste of this historic opportunity if one tyrant were toppled and only a
— only to see a new one rise up in its place.  So, it’s now incumbent
upon all the opposition groups who seek a role in governing Syria to
demonstrate their commitment to the rights of all Syrians, the rule of
law, and the protection of religious and ethnic minorities. 

These past few days have been historic, and, you know, it’s in the days
ahead that will determine the future of a — this country, and we intend
to approach them with strength, wisdom, and resolve. 

So, thank you very much.  God bless America.  And God protect our
troops. 

Thank you. 

Q    What should happen to Assad now, Mr. President?

(Cross-talk.)

Q    What does the U.S. know about where Austin Tice might be and if
he’s safe?

THE PRESIDENT:  We believe he’s alive.  We think we can get him back,
but we have no direct evidence of that yet. 

And Assad should be held accountable. 

Q    Have you directed an operation to go get him, Mr. President?

THE PRESIDENT:  Get who?

Q    Austin Tice.

THE PRESIDENT:  We have to — we — we want to get him out.  We —

Q    Yes, sir.

THE PRESIDENT:  — we have to identify where he is.

Thank you.   

1:49 P.M. EST
