---
date: '2024-12-16'
modified_time: 2024-12-16 17:14:14-05:00
published_time: 2024-12-16 17:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/12/16/remarks-by-president-biden-honoring-our-nations-labor-history-and-the-biden-harris-administrations-work-to-strengthen-americas-workforce/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden Honoring our Nation\u2019s Labor History and Establishing\
  \ the Frances Perkins National\_Monument"
---
 
U.S. Department of Labor  
Washington, D.C.

12:38 P.M. EST

THE PRESIDENT:  Hello.  (Applause.)  It’s a good day.  (Applause.) 

Thank you, Acting Secretary Su.

AUDIENCE:  Thank you, Joe!  Thank you, Joe!  Thank you, Joe! 

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.  I — I had no choice.  (Laughter.)  My
grandfather would come down from Heaven if I didn’t do this. 
(Laughter.)

(Coughs.)  Excuse me, I have a little bit of a cold. 

Folks, you know, this is an incredible honor.  I really mean that.  And
I want to thank Acting Secretary Su and the Department of Labor for this
incredible honor.

You know, I measure the importance of the — any award I ever received
based on the character and consequence of the organization that’s
bestowing it.  And the Department of Labor is an organization of
character and consequence.  And I’m honored — (coughs) — I’m honored to
be joined today by leaders of character and conscious, many of them
sitting right here in the front row.  Half of my Cabinet is here. 
(Laughter and applause.)  
  
I want to thank all — all the labor leaders here today, including Liz
and the AFL-CIO; members of the Cabinet, including Interior Secretary
Deb Haaland.  You know, you talked about that list that she — that the
secretary brought in her pocket when she met with Trump — I mean, with
Roosevelt — Trump? — Freudian slip — (laughter) — and — but I — I think
she had a relative she left behind.   
  
Would you stand up, Madam Secretary — secretary of Interior? 
(Applause.)

I’ve been around a long time, and she’s the only secretary I’ve ever
worked with or had working for me who when I say, “That’s done,” she’d —
“No, no, no.  We have this to do now.”  (Laughter.)   
  
Thank you, kiddo.

Look, you know, former Labor secretary, who is now in the White House,
senior advisor (inaudible), is Tom Perez.  (Applause.)  Where is he?   
  
Tom, thanks for sticking with me.   
  
And members of Congress, including Maine — Maine senator, Angus King,
and <s>Cherlie</s> \[Chellie\] Pingree — where — where is Ch- — where
are you guys?  All over here.  Okay.  There you are.  (Applause.) 

And, by — and, by the way, last night, we were doing a — a Christmas
event at the house, and I got finished talking to a group of folks from
Labor, and my wife said, “And, by the way, his wife is a member of a
labor union too.”  (Laughter and applause.)   
  
I’m Jill Biden’s husband.  She’s not here today, but she’s been a
long-time union member of the National Education Association. 
(Applause.)

And it’s fitting, with all these powerful women here, that we’ve
gathered at headquarters of the Department of Labor, named after one of
America’s greatest labor leaders — and that’s not hyperbole — Frances
Perkins.

You know, we’re honored to be joined by her grandson, Tomlin.  Where are
you, Tomlin?  (Applause.)  Thank you, bud.

Saturday, March 25th, 1911, Frances sat down for afternoon tea at her
home with a close friend from New York City.  Suddenly, they hear the
sound of a distant screams and sirens.  The building was in flames.  Her
instinct was to run to the scene.

As she approached the fire and smoke, she recognized the Triangle
Shirt\[waist\] Factory, a company that employed hundreds of workers,
mostly immigrants and women, who worked long hours crammed into tight
quarters, where managers locked them inside to make clothing.

In an instant, those workers were trapped in a brutal blaze.  With no
safe exit, some workers forced to climb out the windows, holding on for
dear life until their fingers gave out.  Others just jumped — prayed and
jumped.

A total of 150 lives were lost that day.  It was the deadliest
industrial disaster in American history. 

Frances was devastated.  But that fire ignited a passion in her.  It
strengthened her resolve to fight even harder for working Americans and
working families.

In her decades of service, she became a fierce defender of unions and
workers’ rights, an architect of the New Deal, the first woman Cabinet
secretary — the first woman Cabinet secretary.  I increased on that a
little bit — (laughter) — because I know what my family is like.  All of
— all the really bright people in my family are women.  (Laughter.)  And
the longest-serving secretary of Labor in American history, God love
you.

And the story goes, after Franklin Roosevelt asked her to become his
Labor secretary, Frances Perkins immediately responded by outlining her
goals, what she wanted done.  She said, “I want unemployment relief,
overtime pay, child labor laws, minimum wage, worker’s compensation,
national health insurance, and Social Security” — (laughs) — many of the
benefits we take for granted as a consequence of Frances’s dedication to
inciting courage.   
  
But that — can you imagine walking up to Roosevelt and saying, “Hey,
I’ll take the job, but here’s the deal, man.”  (Laughter.)  “Let’s get
this straight.”  Like I said, a little bit like when I asked Frances to
do my job.

Hard-fought battles and — with Teamsters and, you know, at her — look, a
real testament to her skill as an advocate for public servants.

An example that, through the Fair Labor Standards Act, she cemented the
idea that if you’re working a full-time job, you shouldn’t have to live
in poverty — a simple proposition.  If you work a little extra, you
should have extra money for overtime.  Not a crazy idea.  Even — some
even argue about it now.

Frances understood what my dad taught me, and I — you’ve heard me say
this a thousand times, but it — he really would say this.  He said,
“Joey, a job is about a lot more than a paycheck.  It’s about your
dignity.  It’s about respect.  It’s about your place in the community. 
It’s about being able to look your kid in the eye and say, ‘Honey, it’s
going to be okay,’ and mean it.”  That’s my dad. 

In fact, during her 12 years in office, she accomplished everything on
her list, except expanded health care for health insurance.  It took 65
years later and a guy named Barack Obama and I to get the Affordable
Care Act passed.  (Applause.)  And thank God all of us here have
protected and expanded the Affordable Care Act.

Look, it’s clear that Frances Perkins and a generation of activists and
labor leaders laid the groundwork for much of what we’ve accomplished in
the last four years.

We’re fundamentally transforming the economy by breaking an economic
orthodoxy that has failed this nation for generation after generation,
in my view: trickle-down economics, the notion that if you — every — the
wealthy do very, very well, a little will trickle off — off their tables
onto our kitchen table. 

My dad used to say, “Nothing ever trickled on my table, honey.” 
(Laughter.)  No, I’m serious. 

My dad was a really well-read man who didn’t get to go — he went —
accepted to Johns Hopkins, but during the war, he never got to go.  But
my dad was a well-read guy. 

Well, you know, the primary benefits to the very wealthy and the biggest
corporations were trickle-down economics, and that didn’t do much for
working people and the middle class and left too many people behind. 

Together, we built an economy from the middle out and the bottom up, not
the top down, and because we know this simple truth: Wall Street didn’t
build America; the middle class built America, and u- — (applause) — and
unions built the middle class.  (Applause.)  Un- — and that’s a fact.   
  
In fact, as th- — as the secretary of Treasury will tell you, I asked
her to do a study because I was going to get hit, because I knew they’d
say by having unions increase in their numbers and their wages go up, we
were going to cost people thing.  Guess what?  The study the Treasury
did showed that when unions do well, all workers do well -– union and
<s>non-worker</s> \[non-union\], across the board.  (Applause.)

It matters.  It works.  It’s fair.

Kamala and I are so proud of the great job creation record of any —
actually, the greatest job <s>correction</s> \[creation\] of any single
president in a single term: over <s>6</s> \[16\] million jobs so far,
including over 1.5 million manufacturing and construction jobs —
good-paying jobs you can raise a family on and don’t have to require a
four-year degree.  And get this: There are more women, especially
mothers, in the workforce than ever before in American history. 
(Applause.)

We’re so damn proud to have protected pensions of millions of union
workers and retirees — (applause) — when I signed the Butch Lewis
Act.   
  
You know, think about that.  Imagine what the average American would say
if you were going to do that with their Social Security, which this guy
wants to do.  Imagine if he said, “Your pension, you can’t count on it
anymore.” 

In addition, we’ve recovered more than $1 billion in back wages and
damages for over 600,000 workers here in America.  (Applause.)

We wo- — we’ve pushed for a right to a living wage and your right to
overtime pay.

Jobs and factories are coming back home to America because we invested
in the American agenda.  We’re modernizing American infrastructure.   
  
Last time, this guy had — last guy had the job, he had “Infrastructure
Week” every week — didn’t build a damn thing.  (Laughter.)  Well, guess
what?  We’re — we built a lot.  And guess what’s coming? 

Look, folks, one of the things that is frustrating — I knew this was
going to happen because I’ve been around a long time, and I talked over
to the secretary of Agriculture and other places.  Guess what?  All the
things — we have $1.4 trillion in economic — in — in infrastructure
growth.  That’s thousands of good-paying jobs. 

The CHIPS and Science Act investing billions of dollars — billions of
dollars — building these fabs that are going to house hundreds of people
working, thousands, and they’re going to be ba- — getting paid about
average of $102,000 a year and don’t need a college degree.

So much — so much is going on.  But it’s going to take a little bit of
time.  But we got to make sure to protect — protect the — the onslaught
that’s going to come, because it’s hard to see right away.

And, by the way, I know I got criticized by putting as many of these
programs in red states as blue states — actually more.  Well, guess
what?  The red state guys screwed it up.  (Laughter.)  And we got a be-
— benefit — we — we represent all of America, not just — not just blue
America, not just Democrats, but all of America. 

Look, as we do all this, we’re — we’re buying America, using American
workers, using American products.  And we’re standing up to Amer- — for
American steelworkers against China’s unfair trade practices.

We appointed a National Labor Relations Board that actually believes in
unions and has pro-union members on the board.  (Applause.)  A strange
notion.  And a special thank you to the chair of the board, Lauren
McFerran — (applause) — (inaudible) — who is here.  Where are you,
Lauren?  There — thank you, Lauren. 

Don’t be so shy.  Raise your — stand up.  Let everybody see you. 
(Laughter and applause.)

And it’s no accident — no accident that petitions to form unions have
doubled — doubled under my presidency.  (Applause.) 

I got all this credit for walking the picket line.  It never crossed my
mind not to walk the picket line.  (Laughter.)  No, I’m serious.  I
didn’t think it was any big deal.  I walked a lot of picket lines.  The
fact that I was president, I hadn’t thought about that.  And then
<s>Pamela</s> \[Kamala\] walked the picket line.  We support the right
to fair contracts.  

Here’s one, you know, that doesn’t get enough attention: When workers in
sectors like construction, manufacturing, mining inhale toxic silica
dust on the job, it can lead to lung cancer and other deadly diseases. 
It’s been a major problem for decades, even under Secretary Perkins. 
She led an investigation, but despite the science, big business blocked
the regulation.

But not on our watch.  Not on your watch.  With your help, we carried
Frances’s — Frances’s mantle and issued a rule that finally reduces such
dangerous exposure. 

And, by the way — (applause) — our secretary — the secretary of Veterans
Affairs is sitting in front of me here — one of the really good guys.  I
really mean it.  
  
And, you know, we — what we’ve done — what we did for the CHIPS and
Science Act, and then we went — made sure we were going to take care of
veterans.  We said all those folks, in my generation, exposed to Agent
Orange couldn’t prove that their illness was a consequence of it and all
those, like my son’s generation, that were exposed to toxic burn pits in
Iraq and other places, that it’s assumed that — my son came back, for
example, with Stage Four glioblastoma.  More brain injuries than
anything else.  And guess what?  They’re entitled to the benefits that
they were going to get if they had not lost their lives — their family. 
(Applause.)  
  
And to ad-lib here a little bit, I — I think the American people are
beginning to figure out all we’re doing is what’s basically decent and
fair — just basically decent and fair.  
  
We have a lot of sacred obligations — I got into trouble for saying this
before, but we only have one truly sacred obligation: to prepare those
we send into harm’s way and pre- — care for them and their families when
they come home.  And that’s a simple proposition.  Finally, that’s
happening.  
  
What — what you got?  Another million now?  A million you’re taking care
of.  
  
I make no apologies.  I’m so damn proud of that.  (Applause.)  
  
Look, folks, in our four years together, we’ve made historic investments
that have changed the course of the nation’s future and will have a
lasting impact for decades to come.

And I’m here to say, to state the obvious, we could not have done this
without the dedicated professionals here at the Department of Labor and
all across this administration.  (Applause.)  Could not have done.

And I’m damn proud to be known as the most pro-labor administration in
American history, because we are.  We are.  We make no apologies. 
(Applause.)

Look, let me close with this.  Frances Perkins once said, “The people
are what matter to government, and the government should aim to give
people — all people under its jurisdiction the best possible life” —
“the best possible life.”

For my dad, it was a simple proposition: Everybody deserves a shot.  No
guarantee, but a shot.  Everybody deserves a shot.

All of you have helped the — upheld that vision, putting the people
first, no matter who they are.

Another important legacy of our administration is making sure we learn
from history, lift up stories that often have gone untold.

Earlier this year, during Women’s History Month, I signed the first-ever
executive order on recognizing and honoring women’s history to increase
representation of women and historic sites — in historic sites all
across America.

Today, I’m proud to stand here in the Frances Perkins — Perkins
Building, headquarters of the Labor Department, to designate Frances
Perkins Homestead in Newcastle, Maine, a national monument.  (Applause.)

And Secretary Haaland is also going to be announcing five new national
historic landmarks to honor women’s contributions to American history. 
(Applause.)

They includes Charleston Cigar Factory — (coughs) — excuse me — where
Black women led a workers’ strike that opposed gender and racial
discrimination and advocated for better pay for working conditions.

Look, too many people want to rewrite history or ignore it.  Look, we
wa- — all we want to do is make — le- — make sure we record history —
record history — the good, bad, and the indifferent — who we are. 

I was able to show up at Indian Country and apologize for what we did to
the Indian Americans, for the schools we made them go to and took them
away, off the reservations with their parents.

Throughout our history, women’s vision and achievements have
strengthened this nation, to state the obvious.

That’s why I’ve kept my commitment to have an administration that looks
like America, and that includes having more women in senior access all
across the board, starting with my amazing vice president, Kamala
Harris.  (Applause.)

It’s about time we honor them in building the American Women’s Museum
and — History Museum on the Mall — (applause) — and the Women’s Suffrage
National Monument on the National Mall.  (Applause.)  

And, by the way, it’s time for Congress to move in authorizing that
legislation — moving it forward.  They should do it now, before this
Congress ends.  (Applause.) 

Folks, our administration is coming to an end, but our work continues.

We get up.  We keep going.  We keep the faith.  I know I will.  I know
you will.  We just have to remember who in the hell we are.

We’re the United States of America.  (Applause.)  There is nothing
beyond our capacity when we do it together — nothing, nothing, nothing. 
(Applause.)

May God bless you all.  And may God prote- — protect our troops. 
(Applause.)

And now I will sign the proclamation.  
  
Thank you, thank you, thank you.  (Applause.)

Here.  
  
(The proclamation is signed.)  (Applause.)  
  
12:57 P.M. EST
