---
date: '2024-12-19'
modified_time: 2024-12-19 10:50:50-05:00
published_time: 2024-12-19 10:31:58-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/12/19/remarks-by-national-economic-advisor-lael-brainard-on-making-americas-supply-chains-more-resilient/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by National Economic Advisor Lael Brainard on Making America\u2019\
  s Supply Chains More\_Resilient"
---
 
*At The Brookings Institution*  
*As Prepared for Delivery*

**Supply Shocks and Supply Chain Fragility**

I am delighted to join you for this discussion on strengthening
America’s supply chains as we release the first ever Quadrennial Supply
Chain Review.

When President Biden came into office, the economy was experiencing the
most disruptive supply shocks in a generation. Shipping costs
skyrocketed as [over a hundred ships queued
up](https://www.bts.gov/freight-indicators#awaiting-berths) at the Ports
of Los Angeles and Long Beach, and thousands of containers piled up on
our docks. And when Russia invaded Ukraine, we saw further shocks,
disrupting global grain and energy markets.

Following several decades of relative calm, the [Global Supply Chain
Pressure
Index](https://www.newyorkfed.org/research/policy/gscpi#/interactive)
spiked to unprecedented levels. As disruptions led to shortages and
price increases, goods inflation surged, after falling for much of the
pandemic shutdown in 2020, [tracking supply chain disruptions
closely](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/11/27/fact-sheet-president-biden-announces-new-actions-to-strengthen-americas-supply-chains-lower-costs-for-families-and-secure-key-sectors/)
with a short lag.

Not since the oil price shocks of the 1970s had the U.S. economy
experienced aggregate supply shocks of this magnitude. Both businesses
and government were woefully unprepared.

Market pressures led businesses to adopt just-in-time, lean inventory
practices and to seek out the lowest- cost production location for many
components in their far-flung value chains. We now know that this came
at a cost. When the pandemic shuttered semiconductor factories overseas,
unfinished auto assemblies began piling up in America. Car and washing
machine prices spiked, and wait lists lengthened.

The government had neglected to make critical investments in the
resilience of our supply chains. Rails, ports, roads, bridges, and
airports had fallen behind as successive administrations failed to
secure the necessary infrastructure funding from Congress and did not
take action as some foreign governments provided significant non-market
incentives for investments in key strategic industries.

**A New Playbook for Supply Chain Resilience**

In short, we needed a new strategy to make our supply chains more
resilient—and new partnerships with businesses and labor to make it
work, as well as with foreign friends and allies. In his first month in
office, the President signed the [Executive Order on Supply
Chains](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/02/24/executive-order-on-americas-supply-chains/)
laying out a strategy to strengthen our supply chains. The new playbook
rests on recovery, risk management, investment, and diversification.

*Recovery*

The first order of business was to restart the flow of goods.  The
Administration immediately stood up a [Supply Chain Disruptions Task
Force](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/06/08/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-supply-chain-disruptions-task-force-to-address-short-term-supply-chain-discontinuities/) to
work with state and local officials, businesses, labor groups, and
farmers to resolve bottlenecks.

An acute shortage of truck drivers was creating a major bottleneck for
the [72% of shipments](https://www.bts.gov/faf) that move around the
country by truck. In response, the Departments of Labor and
Transportation implemented the [Trucking Action
Plan](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/12/16/fact-sheet-the-biden-%E2%81%A0harris-administration-trucking-action-plan-to-strengthen-americas-trucking-workforce/),
which increased trucking employment by the most in two decades and
doubled the issuance of commercial drivers’ licenses.

Similarly, with cargo piling up at our West Coast ports, the President
[appointed a Port
Envoy](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/08/27/white-house-announces-john-d-porcari-as-port-envoy-to-the-biden-harris-administration-supply-chain-disruptions-task-force/),
who worked with businesses and labor to clear the docks and get
shipments moving again. As a result, the shelves were restocked in time
for the Christmas shopping season.

*Risk Identification and Management*

Our goal was not only to restore the nation’s supply chains but also to
build capacity to spot emerging risks and to resolve emerging problems
sooner. We worked to build durable capabilities in key agencies to
enable data analytics and information sharing with the private sector
and states and localities.  

These new supply disruptions capabilities strengthened our ability to
respond in 2022 to a significant [baby formula supply
shortfall](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/05/12/fact-sheet-president-biden-announces-additional-steps-to-address-infant-formula-shortage/)
due to a production quality lapse. To restore supply, the Administration
[used the Defense Production
Act](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/05/22/president-biden-announces-first-two-infant-formula-defense-production-act-authorizations/#:~:text=Last%20week%2C%20the%20President%20invoked,sourced%20for%20later%20this%20week.)
to get ingredients to manufacturers, [coordinated air freight
shipments](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/05/19/biden-administration-approves-first-operation-fly-formula-mission/)
of formula from overseas, and [provided expedited
pathways](https://www.fda.gov/food/infant-formula-guidance-documents-regulatory-information/enforcement-discretion-manufacturers-increase-infant-formula-supplies)
for new manufacturers to enter the market.

The Department of Transportation built out a new [Multimodal Freight
Office](https://www.transportation.gov/freight) and a [Transportation
Supply Chain Indicators
Tracker](https://www.transportation.gov/briefing-room/transportation-supply-chain-indicators)
that gathers and publishes metrics in real time on container dwell
times, sectoral employment trends, and rail intermodal volumes. Now when
we start seeing a back-up in any of our ports, we can take action right
away.

The Department of Commerce created a new [Supply Chain
Center](https://www.trade.gov/supply-chain-center) with a
first-of-its-kind diagnostic risk assessment tool known as
[SCALE](https://www.commerce.gov/news/fact-sheets/2024/09/fact-sheet-department-commerce-announces-new-actions-supply-chain).
SCALE utilizes a comprehensive set of over 40 indicators of risk such as
supplier concentration, reliance on a single point of entry, and
inventory-to-sales ratios to evaluate supply chain conditions across
more than 400 industries. With this new data, we can spot looming
challenges early and take action before they become a crisis.

These data tools are critical for the private sector no less than for
the government. When crisis strikes, the hundreds of independent
operators that rely on or support our logistics networks must make
decisions based on the information that is available to them, which may
be only part of the bigger picture. It was vital to institutionalize
greater data sharing and coordination to enable the hundreds of
independent operators to manage risks more effectively.

The Department of Transportation created the [Freight Logistics
Optimization Works (“FLOW”)
program](https://www.transportation.gov/freight-infrastructure-and-policy/flow),
a public-private partnership that has built a shared data resource
picture of live supply chain networks. Today, [more than
85](https://www.transportation.gov/freight-infrastructure-and-policy/flow-members)
FLOW participants use these data to inform their logistics decision
making, helping to avoid bottlenecks, and shorten lead times for
American businesses and consumers.

The collapse of the Francis Scott Key Bridge in Baltimore last spring
was a crucial test of whether the new capacity we had built around
supply chains would work in a crisis. Hours after a ship crashed into
the bridge at 1:30 A.M., the [federal
government](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/03/26/remarks-by-president-biden-on-the-collapse-of-the-francis-scott-key-bridge/)
had already convened the Supply Chain Disruptions Task Force to minimize
disruptions to the critical goods moving in and out of the port. We were
immediately in communication with state and local officials, and we
initiated calls with shipping companies, labor unions, ocean carriers,
and other ports along the East Coast. We
[coordinated](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/04/05/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-actions-following-the-francis-scott-key-bridge-collapse/)
with rail and trucking companies to help reroute the flow of critical
goods in real-time. This all-hands-on-deck approach kept goods flowing
throughout the region, workers at their jobs, and the local economy
operating at full capacity until the Port of Baltimore was [able to
fully
reopen](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/06/12/statement-from-president-joe-biden-on-the-reopening-of-the-port-of-baltimore/)
in less than three months.

*Investing in Infrastructure and Manufacturing*

The pandemic supply chain crisis also highlighted the costs of decades
of underinvestment in the supply side of our economy. Our nation’s
infrastructure had fallen further and further behind. Companies spread
their supply chains to far flung parts of the globe as they focused on
the costs of inputs, and not on the risks associated with where they
were made.

In response, the President secured landmark legislation to revive the
federal government’s role in supporting private sector investment in the
critical value chains that underpin our economic and national security.

Thanks to the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, the federal government has
so far invested more than [$568 billion in American infrastructure
across 66,000 different
projects](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/11/15/fact-sheet-biden-%E2%81%A0harris-administration-transforms-nations-infrastructure-celebrates-historic-progress-in-rebuilding-america-for-the-three-year-anniversary-of-the-bipartisan-infrast/).
We are investing [$8.7 billion in 18 of the nation’s most economically
significant
bridges](https://www.transportation.gov/briefing-room/big-deal-biden-harris-administration-announces-major-progress-rebuilding-americas)
that are vital to our supply chains, and we have announced $13 billion
to improve our ports. These are investments that will pay dividends for
decades to come.

When the President took office, [almost
90%](https://www.semiconductors.org/turning-the-tide-for-semiconductor-manufacturing-in-the-u-s/)
of semiconductors—vital for everything from advanced AI to gaming—were
manufactured abroad. In the energy sector, we rely on China for [more
than
80%](https://www.iea.org/reports/solar-pv-global-supply-chains/executive-summary)
of the solar manufacturing supply chain, and there are at least 30
foundational mineral commodities for which the U.S. is more than 75% net
import reliant—in many cases on sources that are Chinese or owned by
Chinese producers. These aren’t just economic vulnerabilities—they are
national security risks, and we cannot afford to wait until there is a
disruption to take action. 

Together, the landmark CHIPS and Science Act and Inflation Reduction Act
(IRA) [have catalyzed nearly $1
trillion](https://www.whitehouse.gov/invest/?utm_source=invest.gov) in
announced private-sector investments in critical industries. Because of
the CHIPS and Science Act, the U.S. is now projected to host [nearly
30%](https://www.semiconductors.org/america-projected-to-triple-semiconductor-manufacturing-capacity-by-2032-the-largest-rate-of-growth-in-the-world/)
of global leading-edge semiconductor manufacturing—up from zero—and we
are already seeing the leading global manufacturer achieve production
yields in the U.S. that are comparable to those in Taiwan.

Similarly, when the President entered office, U.S. producers were only
able to supply 5 percent of global lithium demand. Because of the clean
energy provisions of the IRA, the U.S. is now on track to supply [more
than one-fifth of global lithium
demand](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/09/20/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-takes-further-action-to-strengthen-and-secure-critical-mineral-supply-chains/)
outside of China by 2030, enabling us to power grid storage batteries
and electric vehicles.

*Diversification of Supply Chains*

We are also working with likeminded partners to diversify our supply
chains and manage risks. China has used a wide range of non-market
practices to gain significant global share in key supply chains,
including legacy semiconductors and electric vehicles. China’s growing
overcapacity has caused a proliferation of unfairly low-priced exports
that now make it difficult for competitors to meet market hurdles for
investment and production. To level the playing field, we have coupled
our investment incentives with [tough trade enforcement
measures](https://ustr.gov/about-us/policy-offices/press-office/press-releases/2024/september/ustr-finalizes-action-china-tariffs-following-statutory-four-year-review)
like tariffs that are carefully targeted against those unfair trade
practices in strategic sectors. Today’s Quadrennial Review lays out a
comprehensive set of additional actions related to procurement, supply
chain transparency, and market standards to counter non-market
practices.

Importantly, we are partnering with allies to diversify global supply
chains and ensure they are not excessively dependent on Chinese
companies. By aligning our approaches, we are helping to ensure that the
most vital global supply chains are diversified and China cannot
undercut American industries, businesses, workers.

**Building Future Resilience**

We have come a long way. The [Global Supply Chain Pressures
Index](https://www.newyorkfed.org/research/policy/gscpi#/overview),
which in 2021 peaked at 4.4 standard deviations above its historical
average, is now negative—a sharp decrease. The number of container ship
stuck off our shores waiting to unload has fallen from [almost
150](https://www.freightwaves.com/news/new-year-brings-new-all-time-high-for-shippings-epic-traffic-jam)
three years ago to around a dozen today. The days of sales covered by
retailers’ inventories has [increased by nearly
10%](https://www.census.gov/mtis/current/index.html) since June 2021 and
is now close to the pre-pandemic average. [Shipping rates to the West
Coast](https://terminal.freightos.com/fbx-01-china-to-north-america-west-coast/)
have fallen from over $20,000 per container at the peak of the
disruption back down to around $4,400.

The work on strengthening America’s supply chains should continue since
we are likely to encounter additional supply shocks in the years ahead.
In the past 4 years alone, we have confronted supply chain disruptions
not only from the pandemic but also from hurricanes, foreign wars, and
cyberattacks targeting critical infrastructure and digital supply
chains. We saw [28 climate disasters last
year](https://www.climate.gov/news-features/blogs/beyond-data/2023-historic-year-us-billion-dollar-weather-and-climate-disasters)
that each cost at least a billion dollars—the highest number in U.S.
history. Geostrategic instability, including Russia’s war in Ukraine and
conflict in the Middle East, continues to disrupt global energy markets.
Cyber actors regularly target supply chain operators as a way to take
down major companies, including hospitals. And we have seen a variety of
disruptions in shipping, including the Houthi attacks on cargo ships in
the Red Sea and reduced water levels in the Panama Canal.

New dependencies are constantly emerging, and some supply chain
chokepoints create national security risks, such as the ability of a
foreign adversary to cut off supplies of a key mineral used in defense
applications. It will be important to utilize the full scope of our
national security tools to protect supply chains when necessary, as with
the Department of Commerce’s [ICTS
rulemaking](https://www.bis.gov/press-release/commerce-announces-proposed-rule-secure-connected-vehicle-supply-chains-foreign)
on data security for connected vehicles, ensuring that foreign
adversaries cannot exploit consumer products that Americans use every
day for harmful purposes.

Certain critical product areas—including minerals, information
technology components, and medical supply chains—will require additional
investment to achieve an acceptable level of resilience.

We can’t repeat the mistakes of the past by allowing future core
technologies to completely leave our shores. America’s global position
in the strategic industries of tomorrow require ongoing active
attention. We need to work in partnership with the private sector when
they identify a critical bottleneck. For instance, it is important
support the rapid development of the requisite compute power through
clean energy in the U.S. for the most advanced AI models.

**Closing**

When they are working smoothly, most people don’t pay any attention to
supply chains. But when supply chains break down, it can impose
tremendous hardship on our households, workers, businesses, and
farmers. 

Supply chain resilience has always been vital to our economic and
national security. President Biden once
[invoked](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/02/24/remarks-by-president-biden-at-signing-of-an-executive-order-on-supply-chains/)
a proverb attributed to Benjamin Franklin: “For want of a nail, the shoe
was lost. For want of a shoe, the horse was lost…” and on and on and
until, finally, “the whole kingdom was lost, all for the want of a
horseshoe nail.” Our nation’s founders recognized that the breakdown of
even minor inputs or processes can cascade into monumental national
costs.

Building resilience in our supply chains is not a partisan effort. It’s
a national priority borne out of hard-fought experience. It is also a
shared responsibility—government enabled and private sector led.
American workers are also vital to these efforts.

Today, not only have we recovered, we’ve come out stronger, and have
laid the foundation for America’s supply chains to be more resilient in
the years ahead.  Now it is important to build on this new playbook for
resilient supply chains in partnership with business and government and
in alignment with friends and partners around the world.

\###
