---
date: '2024-12-07'
modified_time: 2024-12-07 04:23:13-05:00
published_time: 2024-12-07 04:23:12-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/12/07/remarks-as-prepared-for-delivery-by-first-lady-jill-biden-at-the-2024-doha-forum/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks as Prepared for Delivery by First Lady Jill\_Biden at the 2024 Doha\_\
  Forum"
---
 
Doha, Qatar

Good morning.

Your Highness: It is an honor to be here with you. I have been
overwhelmed by the generosity and warm welcome you and the people of
Qatar have shown me on my visit. On behalf of my husband, President
Biden, thank you for your leadership as Qatar continues to play a vital
role in this region—and the world.

And I’m glad to be with so many heads of state and leaders from across
the globe here in Doha.

Yesterday, I visited the Qatar Foundation, which has a magnificent view
of Education City. Looking out at all of those world-renowned learning
institutions, I thought of the incredible minds, cultures, and ideas
coming together.

I appreciate Her Highness Sheikha Moza’s leadership in an area we both
deeply care about: education.

As First Lady, I continue to teach writing at a community college, and
in my classes, we talk about how stories shape our world.

The stories we tell can divide us. They can isolate us, and make us
fearful.

But stories can also help us feel more connected to one another and
inspire us to join hands in creating a better future.

That’s the story unfolding on the campus of Weill Cornell Medicine here
in Qatar.

Innovation through cooperation.

Yesterday, I met a medical student who is studying why the risk of
ovarian cancer goes up with a particular gene mutation. Another student
is designing a surgical device that can clean the lens of a camera
during an operation—without removing it from the patient’s body. That
will make surgeries more precise.

It’s promising work.

But what fills me with even more hope is meeting the people who are
powering those discoveries.

Students from Qatar—and countries from all around the world—at an
American academic institution, located here in Doha, uncovering health
breakthroughs that have the potential to improve people’s lives in this
region and globally.

This year’s Doha Forum is focused on the “innovation imperative.”

I believe the first imperative for innovation is cooperation—people of
all backgrounds and expertise working side by side, creating something
better than we ever could alone.

As First Lady of the United States, I’ve had the opportunity to travel
the world. From Japan to Ecuador. From Namibia to Ukraine.

Everywhere I go, I’m reminded that our differences are precious—and our
similarities infinite.

Still, on those trips, there have been some who ask me why: Why visit a
drought in Africa? Why meet with Wounded Warriors in the United Kingdom?
Why visit refugees in Romania?

But if we were reminded of anything, during the COVID-19 pandemic, it is
this: diseases do not recognize borders. Neither does hunger, poverty,
or violence.

We are all connected.

Even when times are tough, we share a responsibility to come together.
And whether it’s fighting disease or working for peace in this region,
we must bridge divides so that all people may live with dignity and
security.

President Biden—my husband, Joe—understands that there isn’t one leader,
one government, or one country that can go it alone, not in a world as
inter-woven as ours.

The world’s challenges aren’t only ours to endure together. They are
ours to solve together.

That can be this generation’s story, one of cooperation, understanding,
and opportunity.

Consider climate change. The consequences of extreme heat, droughts,
melting glaciers, and typhoons reverberate around the world.

But so too could new technologies with the power to reduce carbon
emissions, address water scarcity, and make communities more resilient.

It will take all of us—committing to change, sharing our best ideas, and
creating innovations that reach everyone—just as fast and as far as any
wildfire or ocean wave.

Another area that’s ready for more innovation is in women’s health
research.

Globally, women tend to live longer than men, but we spend almost 25
percent more time in poor health. 

Innovations are happening all around the world to close that health gap.
Imagine a blood test—the first of its kind—that can reduce the time it
takes for women to get a diagnosis for a debilitating disease like
endometriosis. Or think about the benefits of uncovering why Alzheimer’s
is more common in women.

This work isn’t just up to scientists and researchers. Governments,
academia, the private sector, and NGOs all have to coordinate to make
sure the benefits of innovative research reach the people who need
them. 

Your Highness: I am here in Doha as part of my final foreign trip as the
First Lady of the United States.

In the coming months and years, I will continue to help close the gaps
in women’s health research. And the leaders in this room will always
have a partner in me to move forward life-saving and world-changing
innovations that improve our world.

The imperative to join together is not our burden.

It is our opportunity.

So let us build strong partnerships and innovate our way to better
health, opportunity, and prosperity—for all.

A brighter world can be our story to tell.

Let’s write it, together.

\###
