---
tags: press-briefings
date: '2021-06-14'
modified_time: 2021-06-14 19:20:15-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/06/14/background-press-call-by-a-senior-administration-official-on-president-bidens-engagements-at-nato-summit/
published_time: 2021-06-14 05:57:00-04:00
title: "Background Press Call by a Senior Administration Official On President\_Biden\u2019\
  s Engagements at NATO\_Summit"
---
 
Via Teleconference

3:08 P.M. CEST

MODERATOR: Good afternoon, everyone. \[Redacted.\] Our speaker is going
to also provide a brief, unembargoed, on-background update of some of
President Biden’s engagements today at NATO, including the President’s
meeting with Baltic leaders. So, I’ll turn it over to him to kick us off
on that. \[Senior administration official\], go ahead.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: Thanks, everybody, for joining the call.
And greetings from NATO headquarters, where I’ve just stepped out of the
session of the leaders here at the summit that is currently ongoing.

President Biden has delivered his remarks a short while ago, and other
leaders are now speaking. On the margins of the NATO Summit, he had the
opportunity to meet with the leaders of the three Baltic countries:
Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania. And he got the chance to discuss with
them and coordinate with them in advance of his meeting with Putin on
Wednesday to talk about the threat that Russia poses to NATO’s eastern
flank, to talk about common commitment to Article 5 and collective
defense, to coordinate on the resilience of those states in the face of
multiple dimensions of the threat posed by Russia — from cyber, to
provocative military exercises on their borders, to information warfare.

He was able to communicate to them what he has communicated publicly,
which is that the United States seeks a stable and constructive
relationship with Russia, but also will respond in the face of Russia’s
harmful activities and will always stand up for NATO Allies.

They also discussed the emerging security challenge posed by China,
including in the domain of technology. And he thanked the three leaders
for the steps that they have taken to support a trusted 5G platform — to
not accept Huawei within their systems.

They also had the opportunity to confer on Belarus and, in particular,
the recent egregious air piracy that occurred with respect to a flight
that was actually bound for Vilnius, Lithuania. And they had the
opportunity to talk more broadly about and an affirmative agenda around
emerging technologies and innovation.

It was a constructive, warm, vigorous engagement between him and the
three leaders, and a real symbol of solidarity and unity with NATO’s
eastern flank.

In that vein, he also had the opportunity to do a brief meeting with the
Presidents of Poland and Romania, who are the co-chairs of the Bucharest
Nine, the same group of eastern flank Allies that he engaged with at
their virtual summit a few weeks ago. He was able to speak with the two
of them about his commitment to (inaudible) security; his commitment,
again, to stand up in the face of the threat posed by Russia; and to let
them know his intentions for the summit in Geneva on Wednesday.

He had a separate encounter — an engagement with President Duda of
Poland, where they got to go a little bit deeper into the questions of
America’s security and military cooperation and engagement with Poland
and the United States’ strong support for the defense of Poland and our
common collective commitment to NATO.

He had the chance to talk to a number of other leaders as well, just
very briefly — from the Prime Minister of Spain to the Prime Minister of
the Netherlands — on a range of different issues — and, of course, to
see his colleagues who have just come with him from Cornwall and the G7
— President Macron, Chancellor Merkel, Prime Minister Draghi, Prime
Minister Johnson.

\[Redacted.\]

Q Thanks, \[senior administration official\], for doing this. I was
hoping you could speak to the issue of Afghanistan and whether any of
the NATO members raised concerns with Biden about the withdrawal. And
then separately, I would just ask, broadly, on behalf of the media here,
if we could get these bilats on the schedule or delivered to the press
because we were unaware of several of them today, and also that we could
get some access to them, which has been a pretty tradition — a tradition
of both parties in the past. Thanks.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: Yeah, on the second thing, you know,
this was at the initiative of President Biden today that he wanted the
opportunity to seek out key leaders, particularly on the eastern flank,
to be sure he had the time — the opportunity to spend time with them,
especially given the fact that for the key Western European countries,
he’s just spent three days with them, and he wanted to maximize this
opportunity to talk to the Poles, the Romanians, the (inaudible), et
cetera. So, a lot of this was evolving in real time and there was not an
effort to –- frankly, we would have loved to had — have more press
access to them. But we’ll endeavor always to do better as we go forward.

In terms of Afghanistan, I listened –- I was in the room for the first
hour of the summit and heard many of the significant troop-contributing
countries speak and speak to the issue of Afghanistan. And each of them
said that they ultimately agreed with the decision to come — to draw
down this year. They understood that the time had come.

And the real focus in the room was not on the question of staying or
going in 2021; the real focus was on how we work together as an Alliance
to continue to provide support to the Afghan National Security Forces,
the Afghan government, and the Afghan people.

And there is a considerable amount of practical work being done on that
and strategic alignment on the desire to keep embassy presences, to
maintain the necessary security to do that, and to work together as an
alliance on everything from training — you know, particularly on
over-the-horizon training; to counterterrorism and how we keep
suppressing the terrorist threat in Afghanistan; to the provision of
economic assistance in various forms to government.

So I’ve read some of the stories about this question of support or
nonsupport for the drawdown from Afghanistan, and I’ve got to tell you
that that is not the vibe in the room today. And, you know, it is —
there is an incredible amount of warmth and unity around the entire
agenda, including the “in together, out together” aspect of the
Afghanistan drawdown.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: Thanks so much, again, everybody, for
taking the time and hopping on this call. Really appreciate it.

3:32 P.M. CEST
