---
category: press-briefings
date: '2021-06-23'
modified_time: 2021-06-23 12:03:42-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/06/23/background-press-call-by-senior-administration-officials-on-the-strategy-to-reduce-gun-violence-and-violent-crime/
published_time: 2021-06-23 12:03:41-04:00
title: Background Press Call by Senior Administration Officials on the Strategy to
  Reduce Gun Violence and Violent Crime
---
 
Via Teleconference

(June 22, 2021)

7:13 P.M. EDT  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  All right.  Thanks, everyone, for your
patience.  We will get the call started momentarily.   
  
As I mentioned, the factsheet should be hitting your inboxes any second
now.  
  
As I mentioned in my initial email, this call is on background,
attributable to “senior White House officials,” and embargoed for 5:00
a.m. tomorrow morning.   
  
We’ll start with a quick overview from \[senior administration
officials\].  And we’ll open it up to a few questions.   
  
Again, as a reminder, all the contents of this call are on background,
attributable to “senior administration officials” and will be embargoed
until 5:00 a.m. Eastern tomorrow.  
  
So, with that, I am going to kick it over to \[senior administration
official\] to get things started.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thank you so much, \[senior
administration official\].  And thanks, everyone, for giving us a little
of your time this evening.  
  
You will have heard President Biden, again and again, call the nation’s
attention to what he has said is a public health epidemic: gun
violence.  He has talked about the gun violence that makes national
headlines, but also the gun violence that doesn’t make national
headlines and tears apart families every day in this country.  He’s
talked about not just mass shootings, but also community violence,
suicide by firearms, domestic violence by firearms.  
  
We know that the secondary consequences of the pandemic and the
proliferation of illegal guns have led to increased violence in the past
year and a half, including a 30 percent increase in homicides and 8
percent increase in gun assaults in large cities in 2020.  
  
In the first quarter of 2021, homicides are 24 percent higher than the
first quarter of <s>2022</s> \[2020\].  Since day one of his
administration, President Biden has taken action to address this
increase in gun violence and other violent crime, giving cities and
states the resources they need to make their communities safer.  
  
In April, you saw the President announce a package of executive actions
to reduce gun violence while he continued to call for Congress to act. 
He announced that the Justice Department was going to stem the flow of
ghost guns into our communities, that they were going to better regulate
firearms with arm braces, that the federal government was going to make
changes to 26 federal programs to invest more funding in community
violence intervention.  And the President nominated David Chipman to be
the leader that we need at the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and
Firearms.  
  
You saw the President, in his American Jobs Plan, call on Congress to
invest $5 billion in community violence interventions, which are
programs we know work to reduce community violence in our cities.  And
you saw him put forward a fiscal year 2022 budget request that had
increases — increased funding for ATF to do its job.  
  
Building on all of these actions, tomorrow the President is announcing
his comprehensive strategy to prevent and respond to gun crime and
ensure public safety.  He will be meeting with state and local leaders,
a collection of mayors, of police chiefs,  eight state attorney
generals, and community violence intervention experts to continue the
conversation he has been having with local leaders across the country
regarding what they are seeing on the ground, how federal — and how the
federal government can help them make their community safer.  And the
President will deliver remarks to announce his comprehensive strategy to
prevent and respond to gun crime and ensure public safety.   
  
This plan has five parts.  I will talk about — I will provide a brief
overview of a few of them, and then turn it over to my colleague to
cover the rest.  
  
The first section of this comprehensive strategy will stem the flow of
firearms used to commit violence.  You — as I mentioned, you’ve already
heard the President talk about the administration’s efforts to stem the
flow of ghost guns into our communities.   
  
Tomorrow, the Biden administration will announce additional action.  The
Justice Department is announcing a new policy to underscore zero
tolerance for willful violations of the law by federally licensed
firearms dealers that put public safety at risk.  Absent extraordinary
circumstances that would need to be justified to the director, ATF will
seek to revoke the licenses of dealers that first time that they violate
federal law by willfully taking — undertaking a number of actions,
including transferring a firearm to a prohibited person and failing to
respond to an ATF tracing request.  This will be a historic policy that
will make sure that we hold gun dealers across the country who are
contributing to the supply of crime guns accountable.  
  
The President will also be announcing policies to maximize the efficacy
of ATF resources to crack down on rogue gun dealers violating our laws. 
As I said, the President’s fiscal year 2022 budget request would allow
ATF to add inspectors in every field division around the country.  
  
In the meantime, the administration is going to be taking action to make
sure that we’re using ATF resources to the best of our capacity.  This
includes designating, for mayors, a specific point of contact in every
field division, so mayors, police chiefs, or other local leaders can
report concerns about particular dealer compliance with the law.  It
also means giving the 16 states that have their own gun dealer licensing
system their — the federal inspection data so those states can then
determine whether to take their own steps to shut down dealers that fail
to live up to their obligations under state law.  
  
Additionally, you saw, today, the Justice Department announced that it
is launching five multi-jurisdictional firearms trafficking strike
forces.  These strike forces are focused on addressing significant
firearm trafficking corridors that have diverted guns to some of our
major cities.  They recognize that we need multi-jurisdictional
coordination to reduce the flow of firearms into cities and that cities
can pass laws within their own jurisdictions, but need support to stem
the flow of — from other cities and states.  
  
The second category of action is providing law enforcement the tools and
resources needed to tackle gun violence.  As part of the Justice
Department’s comprehensive strategy for reducing violent crime, the
Justice Department is committed to supporting law enforcement in local
communities and addressing gun violence.  
  
Last month, we saw the Justice Department announce that it is providing
support for local law enforcement from the FBI, ATF, DEA, and the United
States Marshal Services.   
  
Tomorrow, the Treasury Department will be building on this by
highlighting that communities experiencing a surge in gun violence as a
result of the pandemic may use the American Rescue Plan’s $350 billion
in state and local funding for purposes such as hiring law enforcement
officials to advance community policing strategies, giving police
departments and cities funding for additional enforcement efforts to
reduce gun violence exacerbated by the pandemic, including prosecuting
gun traffickers, and investing in technology and equipment to allow law
enforcement to more efficiently and effectively respond to the rise in
gun violence resulting from the pandemic.  
  
I want to pause here for a moment because this is a historic amount of
funding that the President is making available to cities and states
through the American Rescue Plan to invest in a range of tools to reduce
gun violence in their communities and make their communities safer.  
  
To talk about the next section of the strategy, I will turn it over to
my colleague, \[senior administration official\].  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks, \[senior administration
official\].  Hey, everybody.  Good to be with you.  
  
The next part of the strategy here — the third element –is about
investing in community violence intervention programs.  You have heard
us talk about this before, these — and the President specifically talked
about this before repeatedly.  Community violence intervention programs
are a huge part of the President’s gun violence reduction strategy as
well.  
  
These are programs that target individuals who are most likely to be
involved in gun violence, either as perpetrators or as victims — to
deescalate tensions, to prevent retaliation, and to save lives.  They
have a significant wraparound services component — helping people with
job placement, with healthcare, cognitive behavioral therapy, education,
and a number of other services to help folks get their lives on a
different track and to prevent violence.  
  
The White House is going to be launching — is launching a CVI
collaborative of 15 different jurisdictions that are investing their ARP
money or other public funds into CVI programs to save lives this summer
and beyond.  The White House is going to support them.  They will also
receive support from a group of funders who are coming together to
invest millions of dollars over the next 18 months to support these
efforts.  
  
In addition, the Treasury Department guidance that \[senior
administration official\] referenced reiterates that the $350 billion in
state and local funding can be used for CVI programs — that is that CVI
programs are eligible uses of that money.  
  
The Department of Education has put out guidance as well.  That guidance
went out on Thursday of last week.  It reiterates that the $122 billion
in K-through-12 funding in ARP can be used for these purposes as well,
where there’s education or student-focused components to the programs.  
  
We put out guidance — these agencies put out guidance earlier this year
as well.  And we’re emphasizing this to make crystal clear that these
funds can be used for these purposes.  
  
And, of course, this all builds on the President’s historic commitment
to secure $5.2 billion of funding for community violence interventions
through the American Jobs Plan and the President’s discretionary budget
request.  
  
As \[senior administration official\] mentioned, we have also pivoted 26
programs over five days across five agencies to support this work.  
  
The next element of the strategy is expanding summer programs and
employment opportunities, as well as other services, for young people. 
As you may know, young people are less likely to commit crime when
they’re productively engaged in the summer, and that is true for gun
violence as well.  There are evaluations that have been done showing
that violence is reduced as much as 35 or 45 percent, depending on the
city and the program, based on summer youth employment opportunities and
other services.  
  
The Biden administration — the Biden-Harris administration is included
in the guidance from the Treasury and Education departments that ARP
funding can be used to hire additional school counselors, nurses, social
workers, and other practitioners who can support youth and young people
during the summer, but these funds can also be used for summer job and
summer education programs, and they can be used for wraparound services,
such as housing assistance, healthcare, substance use disorder, and food
assistance.  
  
Also, I want to mention that, as part of this strategy, the Department
of Labor recently awarded $119 million in workforce development grants
to serve young people in particular.   
  
The fifth part of the strategy here is to help formerly incarcerated
individuals successfully reenter their communities.  Helping formerly
incarcerated individuals is a public safety strategy.  We know that
finding a good job makes a person much less likely to recidivate.  
  
Yesterday, the Department of Labor awarded $85 million to help people in
28 communities transition from incarceration to employment.  Those funds
will serve approximately 9,000 people.  
  
In addition, the Office of Personnel Management — OPM — will examine
barriers to employment for formerly incarcerated people within the
federal government and will consider steps to remove those barriers,
including potentially creating new hiring authority for agencies to hire
formerly incarcerated people into the excepted service.  These are
one-year appointments that can be extended for a second year and that
help build a person’s experience and their employment history and make
them more competitive for federal jobs in the future.  
  
OPM is also going to be issuing regulations under the “ban the box”
legislation, the Fair Chance Act from 2019.   
  
In addition, the Department of Justice is going to bring back the Second
Chance fellowship.  That is a program that will, through a competitive
grant solicitation, bring a formerly incarcerated person into the
Justice Department to serve in a role working on reentry issues and
bring their expertise to bear.  
  
On top of that, the Departments of Labor and Treasury are going to be
taking steps to educate employers and help them understand how they can
leverage existing tax credits to incentivize the hiring of formerly
incarcerated individuals.   
  
There’s something called the Work Opportunity Tax Credit.  It applies to
multiple categories, including people with convictions — with felony
convictions.  And employers who hire individuals in this category can
receive up to $2,400 in credit against their federal income tax if they
are hiring a person within one year of the person’s conviction or
release from prison for a felony offense.  
  
The Departments of Labor and Treasury are going to take steps to ensure
that employers know about this tax credit and how to leverage it in
relationship with other tax credits to incentivize the hiring of these
individuals.  
  
Finally, the Department of Housing and Urban Development is going to be
putting out a letter from Secretary Fudge, outlining actions that HUD is
taking to address the housing needs of formerly incarcerated individuals
— returning citizens — and specifically how the 70,000 emergency housing
vouchers that are funded by the American Rescue Plan can be used to
support these individuals.  Because if they’re coming out of prison and
they don’t have a stable housing situation, then they meet the
definition of being at risk of homelessness in the ARP.  And the —
Secretary Fudge is going to be lifting this up.  
  
This is an important part of the President’s strategy because it is not
just jobs, it is a whole fleet of services that are necessary to ensure
successful reentry, including stable housing.  
  
So that completes the fifth piece, and I’m going to turn it back to you,
\[senior administration official\].  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  All right.  Thank you, \[senior
administration official\].  And thank you, \[senior administration
official\].  Just as a reminder: This is on background, attributable to
“senior administration officials.”   
  
We will now open it up for some question and answer.  If you have a
question, please press the “raise hand” button on Zoom, and then we will
get to as many questions as we can.  Just give it one minute for anyone
who has a question.  Thanks.   
  
Q    Hey, thanks, guys.  Can you hear me?   
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: Yeah.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  We can.   
  
Q    Okay, thanks so much for doing this.  So, as I understand it, the
strategy gives cities the ability to use $350 billion in ARP funds to
hire police officers or invest in community programs.  But is the
administration giving guidance about what ratio should go to what?  Like
is — what’s to stop communities from spending 99 percent on police
officers and only a token amount on community programs?  
  
And a second question on the CVI collaborative: It says that those
cities are, you know, dedicating a portion of that to community
interventions.  Is there a sense of, like, which portion of that?  I
know it’s another ratio question.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Absolutely.  I’m going to turn it over
to my colleague to take the second question, and then I’m happy to take
the first one.   
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, thanks.  No, there’s not a
specific percentage that’s being required as part of the involvement in
the collaborative here.  But these are going to be significant
investments from each of the cities, and I think maybe we could follow
up with further information about that.  But it’s not a, kind of, hard
and fast — and that is because it’s important that there not be a, kind
of, “one size fits all” approach to public safety here.   
  
And the President is — the President’s strategy on combating gun crime
is meant to allow cities and other local jurisdictions to tailor their
approaches to public safety and gun violence and gun crime reduction to
their own particular circumstances.   
  
So we didn’t — we don’t want to artificially shape that from here.  The
President is giving individuals resources and giving cities resources
and guidance to allow them to address the particular needs that they
have.   
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks so much.  And then, to address
your first question, I think the answer is similar to what my colleague
just said.  What the Treasury gui- — the Treasury Department is
clarifying tomorrow is that American Rescue Plan dollars can be used in
cities that have experienced an increase in gun violence as a result of
the pandemic to pursue a range of policies that are tailored to reduce
gun violence.   
  
So a city can choose to use funding to advance community policing to be
responsive to gun violence in that community.  Cities can also choose —
in addition to or instead — to invest in community violence intervention
or to invest in summer program opportun- — programming opportunities,
job training opportunities, all of the tools in the toolkit.  
  
The President is giving these cities unprecedented resources through the
American Rescue Plan to invest in the tools they think make sense in
their communities.   
  
Q    Hey, yes, thanks for doing this.  I just want to ask:  I mean, in
the big picture, can you speak about how it seems like the American
Rescue Plan is central to this overall strategy to combat violence in
cities.  Can you talk about how — I mean, how important you think it
is?  And were the funds designed with this in mind in the first place? 
Or is this kind of retroactively, it just seems like, that this can be
helpful to your efforts?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, so the American Rescue Plan was
designed to help community — well, the state and local funding in the
American Rescue Plan was designed to help state and local governments
respond to the impacts of the pandemic — one of them being an increase
in gun violence, which can be attributed to a range of opt- — a range of
reasons resulting from the pandemic, secondary impacts of the
pandemic.   
  
And the funding that the President is providing for the American Rescue
Plan is historic in terms of the flexibility and the opportunity it
provides to these communities to make changes that can have effects in
the weeks and months ahead.   
  
It is, of course, only part of the comprehensive strategy that the
President is putting forward.  You know, not everything comes down to
funding, but the other big funding piece here is the President continues
to call for Congress to invest $5 billion over eight years in community
violence interventions.   
  
We also have a range of non-budget actions that the President — that the
administration is taking, including the new zero tolerance lens that the
Justice Department will be using with dealers who willfully violate
policies.   
  
So I would say that the American Rescue Plan funding is a critical
resource that the President is giving cities and states right now to
help reduce gun violence in their communities.  It is one of the tools
that the President is giving these cities and states through this
comprehensive strategy.   
  
Q    Hi, thanks for doing this call.  There are a number of governors
and state legislatures that are either contemplating or have taken
actions to constrain state law enforcement from enforcing federal gun
laws.  And really, there is a growing movement to just ignore a lot of
federal gun laws in many states which have Republican-controlled
legislatures and governors mansions.  Is the administration prepared to
take any action to counter this or push back against state governments
that are going to resist enforcing federal firearms laws?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, thanks so much for the question. 
I know that there are a number of cases of this in ongoing enforcement
decisions, which I would refer you to the Justice Department to respond
to.   
  
What I will say is that, in the midst of all these state actions, more
broadly, the President continues to push for legislative action at the
federal level and continues to push, and we continue to see progress at
the same time.   
  
And many states are leading the way, in terms of enacting policies that
will help reduce gun violence in our country, whether that be universal
background checks at the state level, banning untraceable ghost guns at
the state level, passing extreme risk protection order laws at the state
level, or more.   
  
So the President, over the past few months, has been focusing on calling
on federal — calling on Congress to act and encouraging constructive
state action.   
  
And I would refer you to the Justice Department regarding the
enforcement question you asked.  
  
Q    Hi.  Thank you for doing this.  And thank you for taking my
question.  I have a question about some conservative groups — in
particular, the Heritage Foundation has pointed to some of the policies
that prosecutors in cities like Baltimore — whose mayor will be at
tomorrow’s meeting — have decided, you know, in some cases, not to
prosecute minor crimes, such as drug offenses.  And they say that’s
what’s contributed to the rise in crime in some of these cities.   
  
How do you feel that these efforts will address that particular issues
when it comes to prosecuting crimes?   
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So, I will say that the President is
giving state and local officials a number of tools to choose from in
order to reduce crimes in their communities.   
  
One of the resources the Justice Department, in its comprehensive
strategy it released last month, makes clear that it is deploying U.S.
Attorneys, U.S. Marshals, DEA, ATF to help cities that need assistance
with investigations and enforcement.  He has helped — those resources
will be made available to cities who need support in going after dealer
— gun dealers or other parties that are contributing to gun violence in
this country.  Because the levels of gun violence in this country are
unacceptable and we need action.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  And again, I just want to add that, you
know, our focus is on gun violence.  That’s where the President’s focus
is.  That’s the problem that we’re seeing right now: Homicide is up 30
percent in 2020 over 2019; up again in the first quarter of this year. 
That’s gun violence, primarily.  Gun assaults are up.  
  
When you look — when you dig into the crime statistics, you see that
there are some crimes — some crimes that are trending down, including
property crimes and some low-level crimes.  That varies by
jurisdiction.  But what we are — where we are seeing the increase is in
gun violence.  And that’s why it is — the gun crime is the centerpiece
here — the focus of the President’s strategy.  
  
Q    Hi.  Thanks so much for taking my call.  I was — I’m curious, given
that states still have to apply for the Rescue Plan funds, is — does
this represent, tomorrow, any shift in the way that their applications
might be considered?  If they, for instance, have a greater amount of
funding that they’d like to use for policing versus other initiatives,
should this be a signal to cities or to states that are applying for
this money that they can change or shift their application in any way? 
Thanks.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I mean, these funds are going out the
door.  Look at the numbers: $190 billion in the State and Local Fiscal
Recovery Funds have already been dispersed, and more is going out.   
  
So the intent here is not to hold jurisdictions to any particular piece
of the strategy.  It’s a comprehensive strategy, and it recognizes that
local needs need to shape local public safety and gun crime reduction
strategies.   
  
So the guidance that is coming from the Treasury Department that
clarifies what ARP funds can be used for includes, you know, a multitude
of different public safety strategies that \[senior administration
official\] and I covered — from policing, to community violence
intervention, to summer job programs, to services — wraparound services,
to substance abuse, substance use disorder treatment.  These are a
variety of strategies that cities will be able to avail themselves
of.   
  
The encouragement here is to use ARP funds to combat gun crime and bring
about public safety.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  And I would just add that we’ve already
heard from cities and states that are eager and excited to have the
opportunity to use American Rescue Plan state and local dollars for the
types of gun violence reduction strategies that we’re outlining.  And
you should expect us to continue to encourage cities and states to take
this opportunity, through the American Rescue Plan, to reduce violence
in their communities.  
  
Q    Hi.  Thank you so much for the call.  I’m calling from Atlanta,
where we have seen, of course, a surge in gun violence, but also a
problem with a decrease in police officers on the force and a decrease
in morale.  I wanted to know how this plan would possibly address that
issue with cities that need more officers on the force but, right now,
haven’t had a way to incentivize that?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, thanks so much for your
question.  And I am from Atlanta, so I especially appreciate the
question.   
  
So you have heard the President say again and again that
community-oriented policing is one part of a strategy to make our
communities safer.  The President’s budget requests $300 million of an
increase for the Community-Oriented Policing Services Hiring Programs,
and he continues to press for that funding.   
  
Most immediately, though, what this plan does is: The Treasury is making
clear that the — that cities and states experiencing a surge in gun
violence as a result of the pandemic may use their — a portion of their
American Rescue Plan dollars — the $350 billion in state and local
funding — for purposes that are including hiring law enforcement
officials, even above pre-pandemic levels, or paying overtime where the
funds are directly focused on advancing community-policing strategies in
those communities experiencing an increase in gun violence associated
with the pandemic.   
  
So a city like Atlanta, experiencing a surge in gun violence as a result
of a pandemic, could choose to use a portion of their American Rescue
Plan dollars to hire more officers or to pay them overtime when those
funds would be used to advance community policing.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  All right, thank you everyone for
joining tonight.  As a reminder, this call is embargoed until 5:00 a.m.,
Eastern, tomorrow.  And the contents of it are attributable to “senior
Biden administration officials.”   
  
If you have any questions, feel free to email me.  Again, one final
reminder: This is embargoed until 5:00 a.m. Eastern tomorrow.   
  
Thanks, everyone.   
  
  
7:45 P.M. EDT
