---
tags: press-briefings
date: '2021-06-21'
modified_time: 2021-06-21 19:59:04-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/06/21/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-june-21-2021/
published_time: 2021-06-21 19:59:03-04:00
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Jen\_Psaki, June 21,\_2021"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

1:06 P.M. EDT  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Hi everyone.  Good morning — or good afternoon.  Okay.  A
couple of items for all of you at the top.  
  
Today, the Biden-Harris administration has launched Child Tax Credit
Awareness Day to educate the public and encourage non-filers to sign up
for the largest Child Tax Credit in history.  
  
The American Rescue Plan increased the Child Tax Credit to $3,000 for
families whose children are between 6 and 17 years old, and $3,600 for
families with children under 6 years old, and allows half of that tax
credit be paid to families in advance through a monthly check or direct
deposit.   
  
So, starting July 15th, almost all families who have filed taxes in the
last two years will receive this monthly payment automatically.  This
means most families with two young children would receive a monthly
payment of $600 starting in July.   
  
But we want to make sure that everybody who is eligible signs up, hence
we have launched a website: ChildTaxCredit.gov — very easy to remember. 
And if anybody is not sure — maybe they haven’t filed taxes because they
— they don’t — they’re not required to — they can go there and learn if
they’re eligible for this incredible benefit.  
  
Second, today, the United States — in coordination with our allies and
partners in Canada, the European Union, and the United Kingdom — has
taken a number of actions to impose costs on the Lukashenko regime in
Belarus for a variety of egregious acts.  
  
Last month, we said we would develop a list of targeted actions against
key members of the Lukashenko regime associated with ongoing abuses of
human rights and corruption, the falsification of the 2020 Election, and
the forced diversion of the Ryanair flight.  
  
Today, we are following through and holding the regime accountable.  So,
earlier today, the Department of State and the Department of Treasury
designated 62 Belarusian individuals and 5 entities in response to
continuing repression in Belarus.  
  
Importantly, we did this alongside our partners and allies.  And with
these coordinated actions on both sides of the Atlantic, we are
demonstrating our deep and shared concern regarding the Lukashenko
regime’s activities.   
  
Finally, today, the Biden-Harris administration announced the
distribution list for the remaining 55 million of the 80 million doses
of America’s own vaccine supply President Biden has pledged to send out
globally and allocate by the end of June in service of ending the
pandemic.  
  
Already, we have sent millions of doses to the world, including 2.5
million doses that arrived in Taiwan this weekend.  
  
And, in addition, sharing doses fr- — in addition to sharing doses from
our vaccines — own vaccines supply, the Biden-Harris administration is
committed to working with U.S. manufacturers to produce more vaccine
doses to share with the world.   
  
And we’ve purchased, as we announced last week, half — or the week
before that — half a billion Pfizer doses to donate to 92 low- and
middle-income countries and members of the African Union. In total, the
G7 agreed to provide an additional more than 1 billion doses starting in
the summer of 2020 \[2021\].  
  
With that, Alex, why don’t you kick us off?  
  
Q    Thanks.  I have a few.  The first is on that vaccine allocation. 
The President promised to distribute those 80 million by the end of the
month, but he’s obviously falling short of that goal.  So, is there any
indication that the red tape in this distribution is costing lives at
this point?  Why is it taking so long?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, let me say we’ve — we’re committed to allo- —
we’re committed allocating those doses; we’ve done exactly that.  What
we found to be the biggest challenge is not actually the supply — we
have plenty of doses to share with the world — but this is a herculean
logistical challenge.  And we’ve seen that as we’ve begun to
implement.   
  
So, you know, as we work with countries, we need to ensure that there’s
— safety and regulatory information is shared.  Some supply teams need
needles, syringes, and alcohol pads.  Transportation needs — teams need
to ensure that there are proper temperature storage, prevent breakage,
and ensure the vaccine immediately clears Customs.   
  
So, this has not, as you all know, been done before.  Sometimes it’s
even language barriers that occur as we’re working to get these doses
out to countries.   
  
So we have announced today where these doses are going.  We will
continue to announce as they land on the ground and as they are being
shipped.  And we’re looking forward to doing that as quickly as
possible.   
  
Q    Sure.  And on infrastructure, the latest compromise: You said,
earlier today, the President needs to see more details.  What details
does he need to see?  Was he not able to take a look at the package this
weekend?   
  
And one of the issues you’ve obviously raised are payfors.  So, gas tax
aside — that being a nonstarter — what payfors would the White House be
open to?  Specifically, some have raised potentially using leftover
CARES funds or funds from the December COVID package.  Would those be
feasible?  And do you want to see the package ultimately fully paid
for?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, let me say that, you know, the President’s
pledge was not to raise taxes on Americans making less than $400,000 a
year.  And the proposed gas tax or vehicle mileage tax would do exactly
that.  So that is a nonstarter for him.  I’d also note, for the
mathematicians in the room: That only raises $40 billion, which is a
fraction of what this proposal would cost.   
  
The President has proposed a range of ways to pay for this package,
including ways that would not violate the red lines that Republicans
have put forward.  One of them is ensuring the highest — wealthiest
individuals in this country pay what they’re supposed to pay as it
relates to taxes — additional tax enforcement — which would raise a
great deal more by multiples of what the gas tax would raise.  And it
would — it would fall on for — predominantly wealthy Americans and just
ensure they’re paying the taxes they owe.  So, that is an area where we
feel there should be an opportunity to move forward.   
  
And as it relates to details, of course, there needs to be ongoing
discussion; there will be over the coming days, rapidly.  I expect he’ll
have conversations this afternoon.  Tomorrow, we’ll read those out as
those happen, provide information to all of you.  And we’re eager to get
those continued.  
  
Q    Is the White House open to using those leftover funds to fund the
ultimate bill?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, one, there’s minimal, very small amounts that would be
leftover.  And many of those small amounts have already been allocated
or they are to help small businesses, help keep cops and firefighters on
the beat.  And so we feel the best proposal that does not violate the
red lines that the Republicans have put forward would be tax enforcement
and some other proposals the President has already put on the table.   
  
Q    Lastly, on voting rights: Obviously, there’s going to be a show
vote on S.1. tomorrow that’s going to fail.  So, I wanted to come back
to President Biden pledging to do whatever he could.  He said he’d use
every sort of tool at his disposal to get the bill passed.   
  
What has he done to get that bill passed, considering this vote is going
to fail?  And since he has pledged that, is it time for him to start
calling, again, for filibuster reform more loudly?  That’s a tool at his
disposal he has not yet really pushed for.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, let me just give you a sense of how we see this
and how the President sees it: It’s a step forward.  We don’t expect
there to be a magical 10 votes.  I’m not suggesting that.  But just two
weeks ago, there were questions about whether Democrats would be
aligned.  We certainly hope that will be the case tomorrow.   
  
It’s important to remember that this has been a 60-year battle to make
voting more accessible, more available to Americans across the country. 
And our effort, the President’s effort to continue that fight doesn’t
stop tomorrow at all.  This will be a fight of his presidency.   
  
In terms of the steps he’s taken, he’s had conversations, obviously,
with members about supporting this legislation, including Senator
Manchin, as you all know, over the last couple of weeks.  And he will
continue to advocate.  
  
He’s also asked his Vice President — or, agreed with his Vice President
that she will be in charge of this effort moving forward.  It doesn’t
stop.  This is an important piece of it — the federal legislation.  More
work to be done.  But it doesn’t stop with that.  There’s work to do in
the states.  There’s work to do with voting groups.  There’s work to do
to empower and engage legislatures.  And that’s something that will also
be part of her effort.  
  
As it relates to the filibuster: You know, I don’t think you have to
take it from us.  That would be Congress moving forward or making a
decision.  If the vote is unsuccessful tomorrow, it will — I — we
suspect it will prompt a new conversation about the path forward, and
we’ll see where that goes.   
  
Go ahead.   
  
Q    Following up on infrastructure: You know, Senator Portman said over
the weekend that he thought that dropping the gas tax and this fee on
electric vehicles could be something that they could do, so long as the
President puts forward ideas that do not include raising any taxes.  Is
that a potential compromise that seems feasible?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, again, last I checked, the proposal the President put
forward in his initial proposal — that has been a part of this
discussion to increase investment in tax enforcement, ensure that people
who are the wealthiest are paying what they should be paying in taxes,
which would raise a significantly larger amount than the gas tax — does
exactly that and should meet his bar.   
  
Q    And, to Alex’s point, do you want this bill to be fully paid
for?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  The President has proposed means of fully paying for this
package, including the tax enforcement components.  He thinks that’s a
responsible thing to do.  And we’ll continue to have discussions with
members about how we can find a path forward.   
  
Q    You mentioned continuing discussion: Should we expect another
in-person meeting perhaps here at the White House this week?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  I suspect — you can expect that, yes.   
  
Go ahead.   
  
Q    Jen, just going into this week, how does the President view his
role in these negotiations?  Is he the closer?  Is the the facilitator? 
Like what’s his approach this week to try and get this across the finish
line?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I feel like there’s a baseball analogy here I really want to
deliver on so my husband thinks I’m cool, but I can’t think of it.   
  
Look, I think the President, having served 36 years in the Senate, he’s
always going to be deeply involved.  He’s always going to roll up his
sleeves and want to know every detail of what’s being discussed, every
detail of the proposal and package.  As I — as I noted, in response to
Mary’s question, I suspect he’ll have some members here over the past —
over the next couple of days to have those discussions in person.   
  
So I don’t know how you — I will leave it to all of you to — to
characterize or give a label for that.  But he’s ready to roll up his
sleeves, ready — the O- — the door to the Oval Office is always open. 
And he’ll be deeply involved and engaged in these negotiations over the
coming days.   
  
Q    And some progressives have made the ask that if you’re going to
move forward with this bipartisan package, moderate senators commit to
them to supporting the reconciliation piece of this as well — the second
track, if you will.  Will the President also seek that commitment from
the moderates if they do move forward on a bipartisan piece of
legislation?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say that the President sees this as a process
that is — has multiple paths forward.  And the reconciliation process —
which is already underway, being led through the budget committees in
Congress — is an important component of that.   
  
And a number of his priorities and his proposals that he’s put forward
are not a part of this negotiation or are not a part of this discussion
that’s happening in a bipartisan manner.  So he certainly would like to
see that move forward, and he will make that case to others as well.   
  
Q    And then just one last quick one: Does he support the Manchin
language on the voting rights issue?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, you know, again, I think this is a compromise.  And as
that happens, as compromises happen, it means there’s a lot that you
like about it — and it may not be everything you love, but he certainly
sees this as a step forward.   
  
And — and as Stacey Abrams said over the weekend, incremental steps
forward in making voting rights more accessible, making voting more
available is a good thing.   
  
And he certainly is appreciative of the efforts by Senator Manchin and
others to continue to make progress on voting rights, which he feels is
a huge priority.   
  
Go ahead.   
  
Q    Some quick follow-ups on things that have already been
discussed.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  
  
Q    First, on infrastructure, the meeting that would be taking place at
the White House this week: Do we have a day or people who would be
attending on that yet?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  It’s an excellent question.  We will provide more details to
you as soon as we have them.  But I suspect it could be more than one
engagement.  
  
Q    Okay.  And then on voting rights: There’s been a lot of concerns
expressed about whether it’s the Manchin proposal, the two bills that
have been already floating in Congress — that they actually don’t
address the key issues that are being faced right now, which is local
election officials being removed, being taken — their power being taken
away from them.  Is the White House going to say anything about what
more needs to be done to deal with those specific issues that are
happening right now?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah, I think that’s an important point to raise.  You know,
even if the voting rights bill was sailing across the finish line with
the support of every member of Congress, there would still be more to be
done.  And that’s why the Vice President is going to be leading this
effort.  You’re right that some of that is protections for officials and
states.  Some of that is, frankly, pushing back on the more t- — more
than 40 states where there’s legislation moving forward that makes it
more difficult for people to exercise a fundamental ro- — right, which
is the right to vote.   
  
So, again, this is not the end of our effort; this is, in some ways, the
beginning.  And there is going to be more work done by the President, by
the Vice President, by the administration to expand access to voting
rights.   
  
Q    And then one more thing, just on the financial regulation meeting
—  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — that’s happening in the Oval Office today.  There were a number
of issues that I didn’t see on, kind of, your readout of what was going
to be discussed at that meeting.  You know, it could be anything from
the Federal Reserve’s signaling interest rate hikes to the role that
meme stocks are playing in financial stability.  Just anything — I mean,
are those — are those issues going to be raised?  And what more is going
to be focused on at that?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, we’ll provide a readout of the meeting when their
meeting concludes.  I would note that it is a routine meeting.  And most
Presidents meet with their financial regulators.  There is, of course, a
couple of items on the proactive agenda.  And when it’s concluded, we’ll
provide a readout, including the state of the country’s financial
institutions, work that they’re all doing to promote financial
stability, implementation updates around climate-related financial risk,
agency actions on financial inclusion and access to credit.   
  
That’s the proactive agenda.  As you know, in these meetings, different
topics come up.  But this is, again, in our view, a standard and routine
meeting where they’ll discuss — the focus will really be on those
topics.  
  
Q    Are you expecting any decisions to come out of it?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  I think it’s more of an update than it is a decision.   
  
Go ahead.   
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  Back on infrastructure, aside from the gas tax, now
that the President has had a chance to take a look at the bipartisan
plan, what does he think of it?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I’d first say that the President is encouraged that
Democrats and Republicans are continuing to discuss a path forward on
rebuilding our roads, our railways, and our bridges.  That’s a positive
sign.  And this offer is nearly double what the Republican offer was
just a few weeks ago.  That’s another positive sign in the right
direction.   
  
He’s somebody who cares about the details, wants to have a discussion. 
And now that he’s back in the United States and — I expect he’ll do that
over the coming days.  Also stay closely in touch with Democratic
leadership about the path forward.   
  
But certainly, he’s encouraged by the fact that the number has
increased, the investments have increased.  Has some questions about the
payfors, which I’ve noted.  And has a red line about the gas tax and
raising taxes on individuals making less than $400,000 a year.  
  
Q    Is a $1 trillion plan big enough for him?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I don’t think we see this as a — as a one step.  There
is a reconciliation process.  That’s ongoing.  And that addresses and
includes a number of the President’s key priorities, including making
pre-K universal for kids across the country, which would increase the
likelihood of graduating by more than 50 percent; making community
college more accessible.   
  
There’s a lot of investments and proposals the President has put forward
because he thinks they’re important for our economy, for the American
workforce, for our competitiveness.  And a lot of those will be included
in a budget process that’s already moving forward.   
  
Q    So even if this plan doesn’t end up being as big as he would like
it to be, he believes there are other ways to — to get those policies
enacted?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  There are a lot of vehicles to move his bold ideas
forward.   
  
Q    On Medicare, does the President support Bernie Sanders’s proposal
to include dental and vision in Medicare?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  It’s a great question.  I actually haven’t talked to him
about this, so I don’t want to speak out of turn.  Let me do that, and
we can get you all an answer on that.   
  
Q    And then, finally, can you describe what safeguards the
administration has in place to make sure that the children of top
officials don’t get preferential treatment in hiring?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Well, let me say, first, that we have the highest
ethical standards of any administration in history.  A number of ethics
officials have conveyed that, and we’re proud of that.  We have also
staffed up at an unprecedented pace, and that — and this is the most
diverse administration in American history.    
  
So, we certainly expect that everyone will abide by those high ethics
standards.  That applies in how we operate; it also applies in how
hiring is done.  
  
Q    Afghanistan, please.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead.   
  
Q    With the President back from his trip, with the kind of progress
you’ve talked about that he sees on infrastructure, is he seeing this as
an inflection point, in terms of urgency?  Is his mindset at all
different after being rather patient in his approach with outreach?  How
would you describe where his head is right now, concerning how quickly
something can get done?  Because there are a lot of people who are
feeling like it’s taking too long, and that perhaps he has to have a
more active central public role.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I’d first say that, having lived through a lot of
legislative battles himself, he knows that sometimes they take some
time; the sausage-making takes some time.  But to your point, he does
not feel the time is unlimited.  And he would like — it is not weeks, in
his view, in terms of moving forward and seeing if there’s a bipartisan
path forward.   
  
So that is why he’s eager to have these meetings and discussions over
the coming days in the White House and see what it looks like, see if we
can address some of the questions he has about this proposal.  And
certainly, he’d like to move forward sooner rather than later.  
  
Q    And on Iran, the newly elected President has indicated that he does
not wish to meet with President Biden or to engage on the components of
the JCPOA.  What is the President’s view on that?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, we don’t currently have diplomatic relations with Iran
or any plans to meet with the lead- — at the leader level, so it’s
unclear that anything has actually changed on that front.   
  
I will say that the President’s view and our view is that the
decisionmaker here is the Supreme Leader.  That was the case before the
election; is the case today; will be the case, probably, moving
forward.   
  
The Iran nuclear negotiating teams just finished their six rounds of
talks.  They have not yet announced the seventh round.  But as is
typical, they’re back consulting with capitals.  And we’re looking
forward to seeing where that goes moving forward.   
  
Go ahead, Peter.  
  
Q    Thank you, Jen.  On COVID-19 origins, Jake Sullivan said this week
that if China does not let investigators probing the COVID origins in,
they’re going to face isolation in the international community.  So what
is an example of something that the White House thinks China would care
about being isolated from?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say that, as you know from covering the trip,
last week there was a great deal of calibration around — in the global
community, among the world’s largest democracies, the world’s most
important security partners, about how we were going to work together to
address the rising economic power of China and concerns where we have
concerns, which — the lack of transparency is certainly one of them.   
  
So I think what the President and what Jake Sullivan were referring to
is: The global community has taken notice, we’re going to work together
to exercise the necessary pressure on China to be a participant and to
provide transparent data and access in this case, and China wants to
have a role in the global community and global conversations.  And
certainly, they would take note of that.   
  
Q    And so, the White House’s position would be that isolation from the
international community is more of a deterrent than, say, sanctions and
threatening sanctions or some other form of punishment?

MS. PSAKI:  I think the point that Jake was making is that China wants
to be seen as a power in the world, as a central actor in the world. 
And they — they are not looking to have the global community align
against them.   
  
Q    And then, on infrastructure, Bernie Sanders is pitching a
reconciliation package that’s up to $6 billion.  That includes some of
the President’s other priorities —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Trillion.  
  
Q    I’m sorry — $6 trillion.  It’s a lot more money that way. 
(Laughter.)   
  
MS. PSAKI:  I’m just —  
  
Q    If —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I’m just here to get you the accurate info.  
  
Q    Thank you very much.  If something $6 trillion dollars big makes it
to the President’s desk, would he sign it or is that too big?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, we’re not quite there yet.  And I would also
note that the President has put forward a way of paying for these
proposals, including what he feels are necessary reforms to our
corporate tax system and asking the individuals — the highest-income
individuals, the top 1 percent, to pay more.   
  
And he’s put a range of ideas out there on the table and proposals out
there on the table.  We’re going to have discussions with Congress about
what it looks like, what Democrats are comfortable with as well. 
There’s a range of views in the Democratic Party as well, but we’re not
quite there yet.   
  
Q    And, the last one, a dozen or so states have now ended the federal
unemployment benefits — the extra unemployment benefits.  A couple more
states are going to do that in coming days.  Does the White House think
that the governors who are ending these extra enhanced unemployment
benefits before they expire are doing the right thing or the wrong
thing?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, we have continued to implement — or are continuing to
advocate to implement these unemployment benefits for the remainder of
their tenure, which is just a couple of months.  We don’t actually know,
because the data doesn’t exist yet, what the impact of the
implementation in these states is.  
  
Our view is that American families — there are still millions of people
out of work.  They still need a little bit of extra assistance.   
  
We also don’t think that these benefits should be never-ending.  Hence,
they’re going to expire in early September.   
  
So we know governors are going to make their decisions.  We continue to
believe that, with more than 7 million people out of work, that there’s
still additional assistance we should give to the American public.   
  
Why don’t you go ahead.  Af- — you said “Afghanistan.”  
  
Q    Thank you very much.  My name is Nazira Azim Karimi.  I’m an Afghan
freelance journalist.  As you know, President Ghani and Dr. Abdullah
will travel on Friday to the White House to Washington and visit with
President Biden.  What will be the main topic that President Biden will
discuss with both of them?  
  
And also, Taliban continues their attack in Afghanistan even today. 
White House has any plan to invite Taliban, too, to convince them to
make a ceasefire in Afghanistan?  Because Afghan people, they are really
tired — Afghan.  And, emotionally, we are in a bad situation.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Understood.  Well, I know that President Ghani will be here
in the United States on preplanned travel to New York, I believe.  And
of course, the President looks forward to welcoming him to the White
House for a meeting on Friday.  And I expect their top of — their focus
of their conversation will — to be to continue to discuss how we can
work together to ensure that Afghanistan never again becomes a safe
haven for terrorist groups who pose a threat to the U.S. homeland; how
we can work together to continue to implement the humanitarian
assistance, other assistance that the United States remains committed
to, even as we work to draw down our troops.   
  
Go ahead.   
  
Q    Thank you, Jen.  Just two questions.  One, in the wake of the
Supreme Court ruling on the NCAA and college athlete compensation, does
the White House believe that there should be federal — federal rules or
some kind of federal standard governing college athlete compensation? 
Or is that a decision that the administration believes should be left up
to states?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  It’s — I — let me just first say, on the ruling, that our
view is that, of course, NCAA student-athletes work very hard, both on
the athletic field and in the classroom.  I’m a retired one myself.  And
today’s decision recognizes that, as with all Americans, their hard work
should not be exploited.  And the President believes that everyone who
works should be compensated fairly for his or her labor.   
  
In terms of specific regulations, it’s an excellent question.  This is
obviously a new ruling.  I’d have to talk to our policy teams about that
and where we might stand.  
  
Q    And just one on COVID-19: Based on the current projections, it does
not look like the President’s July 4th target of getting 70 percent of
the population at least one dose of the vaccine will be met.   
  
Of course, the administration has tried to incentivize vaccinations
along with corporations and other partners.  What else can the White
House do at this stage to try and change the trajectory of vaccination
rates?  And what are the concerns of missing that target in terms of the
President’s desire to get back to normalcy?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, let me say we’ve made tremendous progress in
our vaccination efforts to date.  And the ultimate goal has been to get
America back to normal, as you said.  And we’re looking forward to doing
that even here at the ri- — White House.  As you know, we’re — we’ve
invited 1,000 — over 1,000 essential workers and military families to
join the President on the South Lawn — and many more — with fireworks on
the Mall.   
  
What we’ve seen over the course of the past couple months, in terms of
progress, is a massive reduction in the number of COVID cases by about
90 percent — a 95 percent reduction in the number of deaths that are
down.  That’s significant progress.  
  
We set this bold, ambitious goal because we wanted to continue to make
progress.  And we’re doing exactly that.  We’ve seen 16 states meet it. 
What we — what we’ve seen, as we’ve dug into the data, is that there is
a big gap between individuals 25 and over, and 18 to 25.  Eight- — yes,
eighteen to under twenty-five.  That means that’s an area we need to
continue to work on.   
  
Now, regardless, even if we sailed past — even if we do sail past the 70
percent goal, we’re still going to be vaccinating people on July 5th, on
July 7th, on July 10th.  That is still going to be — continue to be part
of our objective.   
  
But as we dig into the data, we know that what we’re seeing is a lower
rate among young people.  That’s concerning, especially with the Delta
variant being on the rise, as it is — which does not discriminate by
age, which still could cause death, serious illness.  
  
I expect, in the coming days, you’ll get an update from our COVID team
on where we are on the data on the different categories as they dig into
it.  So I don’t want to get ahead of them.   
  
But we’re going to continue to run through the tape.  We’re also going
to continue to be focused on where we can raise the rates and raise the
numbers where we see there — there’s a lower uptick of vaccination.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Jen —   
  
Q    Thanks.  I think there’s a fly on your head.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Oh, thank you.  (Laughter.)  Oh, thank you guys.  At least
it’s not a cicada.  I swear, those things are —  
  
Q    Okay, but I do have actual questions.  (Laughter.)  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I appreciate it.  I was like, “Is there breaking news?”  But
it’s just — yeah, there you go.  Okay.  
  
Q    Yes.  So, I mean, talking about the voting rights vote — there’s
supposed to be a test vote tomorrow.  That is expected to fail.  When
you look at — right now, the prospects for voting rights is not very
high to get something through Congress as things stand right now.   
  
So what I would like to know is if you can say, specifically, what the
White House plans to do if you cannot get something — some type of
federal action.  I know you said that there are a lot of other things;
you look at this as the beginning of the process.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Mm-hmm.  
  
Q    But ultimately, on an issue as fundamental as voting rights, if you
cannot get federal action, what is left for the White House to do?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I don’t think we accept that.  All I’m — the point I’m
making is that it’s also state action.  It’s also, frankly, action
that’s been happening from the Department of Justice, including
increased funding and increased implementation across the country, which
is something that the President and the Attorney General have both
emphasized as a priority, and we’ve made some specific announcements
about.  
  
So, look, I think, as we look to tomorrow, what’s clear and where we —
what we’re measuring, I think, is: Is the Democratic Party united?  We
weren’t, as of a couple of weeks ago.  That’s a step forward.  If — if
and when — and as I — as I will acknowledge, we don’t expect there to be
a magical 10 or more Republican votes.  They’ve been clear — the
Republican Party and Republicans in the Senate: They do not want to make
it easier to vote.  They do not want to make it more accessible for
Americans to vote.   
  
Well, where do we go from there?  That is a conversation we’re going to
have to have with leaders in Congress, with Democrats, with a range of
members who also want to see advance — advances on voting rights.  And I
expect the President will engage with Senator Schumer and others on the
path forward.  
  
Q    When you talk about a conversation, does — that means a
conversation on the filibuster, I would think, because, like you said,
there’s not the 10 votes in the Senate.  And that being the case, what
do you expect that conversation to look like?  Are you having
conversations with Senator Manchin and others about possibly making
changes to the filibuster, at least when it comes to voting rights, if
anything is going to get done in Congress?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, I would say the President has — has spoken to
his support for a talking filibuster in the past, and, at times, other
members have as well.  It requires a majority of — it requires 50
Democrats to support changes in the filibuster rules.  I will allow you
all to do your vote counting of where things stand there.  I suspect
it’s not just one or two individuals who are opposed to that.   
  
I will note, though, as I said earlier, that if the vote is
unsuccessful, I suspect — we suspect that may change the conversation on
the Hill.  We will see.   
  
But I’m not going to get ahead of where things are.  There’s going to be
a vote tomorrow.  Democrats, we suspect and hope, will be united in
making voting more accessible for people across the country, making sure
we’re advocating for it as a fundamental right.   
  
This is an opportunity for Republicans to stand up and do the same.  It
shouldn’t be a partisan issue.   
  
Go ahead.   
  
Q  Thank you, Jen.  Two topics for you.  The first, I wanted to ask you
about crime.  I — is that I wanted to understand: Is there a concern at
the White House that there could be an increase in crime this summer
with the — you know, the pandemic lifting?  And is that concern the
reason that the President is going to weigh in this week?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  No, the reason is that there’s been actually a rise in crime
over the last five years, but really the last 18 months.  And so, it’s
an opportunity for the President to speak to what he’s going to do to
help address that.  And as we’ve seen around the country, it is a
concern of many Americans — Republicans but also Democrats, too — not
necessarily through a partisan lens.  It was something the President
felt was appropriate to speak to and tell the American people what he’s
doing to help address.  
  
Q    Would he be approaching this a little differently than he did,
perhaps in ’94, when there was another crime wave that Democrats
responded to?  Can you talk to how his approach might change?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I’m not going to get ahead of his comments or remarks
later this week.  But it is an area where the President feels a lot — a
great deal of the crime we’re seeing is a result of gun violence.  I —
you can expect he’ll speak to that and his commitment to continuing to
address gun violence and gun safety in the country.   
  
And, certainly, a long time has passed since the Crime Bill in ’94. 
He’s spoken himself to differences — things he would stand by, things he
would — might do differently.  But I wouldn’t see this as a response to
that, as much as a conveying to the American people what he’s going to
do now to help address the rise in crime we’ve seen over the last year
and a half.   
  
Q    And I just wanted to follow up on Phil’s question —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  
  
Q    — from earlier about the Manchin compromise that had been floated. 
Just — if you can talk specifically about his idea — or maybe if you
could speak specifically to the administration’s position on allowing or
requiring some form of voting ID when people go to the polls.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  I think the President is looking — I’m not going to go
through different individual pieces of the package.  It’s a compromise. 
The President — there are components there, of course, that I think,
universally among most Democrats in the country — an extension of early
voting, making Election Day a law — we would support.  This is a step
forward, should be seen as an incremental step forward.  We’ll see
what’s the next step in Congress.   
  
Go ahead.   
  
Q    Jen, thank you.  Quick one on immigration and then another topic. 
There’s been reports — Axios is reporting that the White House is eyeing
the end of July for a potential timeline to lift Title 42 at the
border.  CDC is also referring to White House on this.  Does the White
House see that as a realistic timeline for potentially lifting Title
42?  Would we be at a place where vaccines are continuing to be
distributed and it would be safe enough to lift that policy?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I don’t have any new policy to announce.  When it
comes to Title 42, there’s been no change.  We’re not, of course, going
to get ahead of the CDC decision, the process involved in that — which
you just touched on a lot of those components.  But we would let them
pursue that process.  
  
Q    Would the White House prefer to allow the outcome of that policy be
dictated by the current litigation that the ACLU is pursuing or would —
that the administration unilaterally make a decision on that policy?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  There’s a policy process that’s ongoing.  That’s unrelated
to the litigation.  
  
Q    And then in terms of the President’s trip later on this week to
North Carolina, the White House — the administration said early on that
when it came to vaccine hesitancy, a big part of the strategy was
relying on local physicians, local governments as well —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — to kind of take that on.  You know, there’s — the Vice President
took a trip recently, and the First Lady is taking a trip.  Now the
President taking a trip.  Does this mark, kind of, a shift in strategy
when it comes to combating vaccine hesitancy?  And when it comes to that
specific demographic you described — younger people —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — what really do you do to convince those people to take vacc- —
vaccines at that point?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, I would say: No.  Where we’ve invested our
funding is in local — empowering local, trusted voices, whether they’re
doctors or clergy or civic leaders.  That continues to be the case.   
  
At the same time, of course, the President and the Vice President of the
United States should be out there advocating for the impact, the
efficacy of the vaccine, and the impact.  And as a part of our “Month of
Action” here — a month-long campaign — it’s absolutely appropriate for
them to do that, in our view.   
  
As it relates to young people, you know, I think we’ll use some of the
same tactics we’ve deployed with a range of communities — right? — which
is trusted voices; which is ensuring, you know, if a college roommate or
a college — a former college classmate got the vaccine and now can go
out and feel safe going out to restaurants and concerts.  That’s pretty
effective, maybe even more so than the President of the United States
appearing in their local newspaper.  That will continue to be an area we
invest.   
  
We’ve also continued to make it as accessible as humanly possible. 
That’s something we can do from the federal government.  We’ve seen that
as a barrier in the past.  We’ve made progress.  We’ve seen that as a
barrier.  We’ll continue to do that as it relates to young people.  
  
Q    Jen.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  We’re also incentivizing.  
  
Q    Jen?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  Yeah.  
  
Q    Sorry.  Sorry about that.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Oh, it’s okay.   
  
Q    Two questions.  (Laughter.)  Okay, two questions.  The first, on
governors and governors’ races.  Across the country, you’ve been — you
have a number of governors and candidates for governor who are becoming
more and more explicitly anti-government in their rhetoric and rejecting
the legitimacy of either the President or the federal government in
general, in areas that are undoubtedly the federal government’s
province, such as a Texas gubernatorial candidate saying he would close
the borders.  You have a guy in Idaho running for governor who has
actually taken up arms against federal agents.   
  
Is the administration concerned that actual violent extremists and
people espousing secessionist rhetoric are finding a home in Republican
primaries and could actually be elected to office?  And then I have a
second question.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I’m not going to label people “domestic violent
extremists” officially from here.  I think we have certainly seen
problematic revetoric — rhetorics: followers of QAnon and conspiracy
theories who not just — who don’t just run but are elected to office. 
So there’s already a record of that.  
  
We’ll continue to speak out against that.  But we will — our strategy at
this point is to continue to advocate for how government can work for
the American people; remind people across the country that this
President is going to govern for all Americans, not just one — from one
wing of a party or the other; and that, hopefully, the effectiveness of
that is something that can help us play a constructive role.   
  
Q    And then a related follow-up: President Biden’s predecessor is
going to return to his campaign-style rallies in Ohio this coming
weekend.  Has anyone from the administration reached out to Governor
DeWine or anyone in Ohio’s government about the possibility of violence
resulting from his return to the trail?  And is there any concern about
him going back out there and continuing to insist that the election is
fraudulent and that he actually won could result in people being hurt or
killed?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Obviously, we take the rhetoric of the — the other, the —
the “former guy,” as we like to say, quite seriously, as everyone
should.  But I don’t have any readouts or calls with Governor DeWine.  I
will see if there’s anything from our Homeland Security team to read
out.   
  
Go ahead.   
  
Q    Thank you.  You mentioned that supply — going back to the vaccine
announcement — was the main — was not the constraint.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Correct.  
  
Q    It was logistics.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    On June 4th, Gayle Smith said that they expected the balance of 80
million — this 55 million — to come from the AstraZeneca shots.  Those
are obviously still under review.  Should we infer from your comment
that you now expect those 55 million to be from Pfizer and Moderna or
Johnson & Johnson?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We’ve always had a range of options — as we are contingency
planners here — and we have plenty of supply to deliver on the 80
million doses.  As you noted — or as you alluded to, my former — my
answer previously, our biggest challenge is logistics — is the fact that
there’s not a playbook for this.  And there are challenges as it relates
to getting these doses out to every country.   
  
Certainly, obviously, once the FDA — if the FDA — if the FDA approves
sending these AstraZeneca doses overseas, that would be a part of it. 
But until then, it wouldn’t be, of course.  
  
Q    Do you have an estimate then on how many doses will be sent this
month?  Of course, the President Biden’s pledge initially was that 80
million would be sent this month, and now it will be “allocated” instead
of “sent.”  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have an update on that.  It’s a great question.  I
know the COVID team is doing a briefing tomorrow, but I will see if
there’s more we can get back to you.  
  
Q    I will be there.  And I —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I know you will be.  A loyal attendee.  
  
Q    Indeed.  And going — for the meeting this afternoon, one of — one
subject I wonder if it’ll come up is cryptocurrency.  Is that something
the President is seeking the advice of the — the (inaudible).  
  
MS. PSAKI:  The agenda is exactly what I outlined earlier.  And we will
provide a readout once the meeting concludes about the topics.  
  
Q    And this is his first meeting with Jay Powell.  Does he have
confidence in the job Jay Powell is doing?  Does he have any particular
message for Powell in particular on that?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  The President’s view is this is a routine meeting with
financial regulators to get an update on management of the economy and a
range — and making credit accessible to people across the country.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    I just wanted to drill down, Jen, on the White House position on a
vehicle mileage tax for electric vehicles.  Can you explain the White
House’s position and why you’d be opposed to — essentially, it would —
wouldn’t it level set because people who fill up their cars with
gasoline pay into the Highway Trust Fund with the 18.3 cent per gallon
excise tax.  People who drive electric vehicles drive on the same roads;
they don’t pay that tax.  Why not?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, I would say, the President wants to grow the
electric vehicle industry, wants more people to buy electric vehicles,
wants to make them accessible to people across the country.  That will
help our climate, help create jobs in that industry as well.   
  
And his view is that there are plenty of ways to pay for these
proposals, plenty of ways that will not leave the burden on any
individuals across the country making less than $400,000 a year.  That’s
the choice, and he feels we should — we should have the burden on the
wealthiest Americans, as opposed to any other Americans.   
  
Q    What’s the long-term structural impact then on the Highway Trust
Fund if, as you hope, more Americans drive electric vehicles, fewer
people fill up their cars with gasoline?  How do you sustain that if
fewer people are paying that excise tax overtime?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I suspect Secretary Pete has thought about this.  I’m happy
to talk to him about it over the long term.   
  
But, again, the purpose of this proposal is to move to electric
vehicles, as an industry — where people are driving electric vehicles,
making our climate — making our climate healthier, but also creating
jobs in this industry that he feels is an industry of the future.   
  
Go ahead.   
  
Q    Thank you.  The President has been criticized for giving Putin a
list of 16 critical infrastructure targets that’s considered off-limits
to cyberattacks.  How did that idea come about?  And why not tell Putin
that everything inside of the United States is off-limits?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, I don’t think it required the President
providing a list to — for President Putin or Russia to determine what is
critical infrastructure in the United States.  I know that has been part
of the conspiracy response to his proposal.   
  
The President was being clear: These are areas where, you know, we will
be watching and we will reserve the option of consequences.  That was
the message he was sending during that meeting.  That’s why he put
forward those specific examples.   
  
Q    And why didn’t he give Putin a list of targets inside of Russia
that the United States would target if another cyberattack does take
place in the United States?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Because we don’t preview our punches.   
  
Q    Okay.  And also —  
  
Q    Does the White House —  
  
Q    One last one question.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead.   
  
Q    Jen?  Jen?   
  
Q    One last question.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.   
  
Q    Does the President believes that a 15-week-old, unborn baby is a
human being?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Are you asking me if the President supports a woman’s right
to choose?   
  
Q    Does he believe —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  He does.  
  
Go ahead.   
  
Q    Jen, another question, actually, on the summit last week with
Putin.  A State Department official, after the summit, said that the
Havana Syndrome — these anomalous health incidents among U.S. personnel
— had come up.  It was referenced.  Who referenced it to who?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have any more specifics from that meeting to read
out for you.  
  
Q    Why would the topic come up if there’s no confidence in this
building or with intelligence agencies as to the perpetrator?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I just don’t — we have not attributed, as you know.  I don’t
have anything more specifically on this topic from the meeting.   
  
Q    The White House reaction on Fulton versus the City of — White House
reaction on the Supreme Court decision to Fulton versus the City of
Philadelphia — does the White House have a reaction on that — on the
case?  
  
Q    Yes.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I think we have issued a reaction to it.  And I don’t have
anything more to it.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Okay, and then the second question —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I think we got to move on.   
  
Go ahead in the —    
  
Q    Multiple people —  
  
Q    (Inaudible.)  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead, right there.  Yep, go ahead, right –go ahead.    
  
Q    I wanted to follow up on the Geneva summit if I may.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Okay, sure.   
  
Q    What specifics step — steps is the administration is taking now to
implement the understandings reached by President Biden and President
Putin in Geneva?  I’m especially interested, as you probably understand,
in the potential dialogue on cyber —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  
  
Q    — and the strategic stability.  Should we expect in-person
interagency meetings on that, or are we talking about, you know,
something online?  Any idea about that?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure, so first let me say, the President did accomplish
exactly what he wanted to accomplish in Geneva, which is identifying
areas where the United States and Russia could work together in our
mutual interest.  We launched the strategic stability talks.   
  
Part of their discussion was the fact that there will need to be a lot
of follow-up on a level that is below the two leaders.  So that — some
of that could be at the Secretary of State; some of that will be before
— underneath that.  And those discussions will be happening or beginning
in the weeks ahead.  But that was the agreement between them, that there
would be follow-up from their teams.   
  
I don’t have any more specific update.  I expect you would get them —
those updates from the State Department and others.   
  
Go ahead.   
  
Q    Oh, well —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead.  But, actually, this woman right in front of you. 
I was trying to point to her, and then I’ll go to you next?  
  
Q    Thank you —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Oh, no, no.  No.  No.  right behind you.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Me?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Oh, right there in the — did you have a question, right
there in the polka-dot shirt?  
  
Q    Yeah, I do.  
  
Q    I’ve got a question.  (Laughter.)  
  
Q    I was just trying to — I can’t — I can’t tell.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  No, sorry.  
  
Q    On the debt ceiling —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yes.  
  
Q    — there’s going to be fight coming up next month and they’ve been
known to be “epic showdowns” on debt ceiling.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.   
  
Q    So what is the President’s stance on raising the debt ceiling?  And
if it cannot — no agreement can be reached, will the Treasury Department
take extraordinary measures?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  The President believes that Congress will do what they’ve
done three times during the Trump administration, which is to raise the
debt ceiling.  We know that that will be a central focus and discussion,
probably even in here, come the fall.  But he expects they will do what
they’ve done three times over the last.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, Jen.  The President said repeatedly on the campaign
trail that he opposes defunding the police.  He’s addressing rising
crime across the country on Wednesday, and you mentioned this.  What is
the President’s message to some mayors who are considering reducing
police budgets or already have reduced police budgets?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say person — the President’s implementation of
the ARP — part of the funding that goes to late — local and state
authorities is to ensure that there are police that are kept on the
beat.  Obviously, state and local authorities are going to determine how
they spend that money, but, certainly, he included that funding because
he feels it’s important to communities across the country.  
  
Q    And then, can I ask one more?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    So I was wondering if you would tell us about the President’s
reaction — some Senate Republicans are delaying confirmation of his OPM
nominee over fears that, if confirmed, she would incorporate what they
see as detrimental critical race theory into federal directives.  What
is the White House’s response to that delay?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  The President believes that this is a qualified nominee, one
the Senate should move forward expeditiously, so that we can ensure we
have a full team in place across the government to continue to work with
Democrats and Republicans in Congress.   
  
Go ahead, Nadia.  
  
Q    Thank you, Jen.  Just to follow up on Iran.  An EU negotiator said,
today, that they cleared on certain technical issues, but they still
have problems on the political one.  And some sources in Geneva — in
Vienna, sorry, indicate that they might reach a deal by the middle of
July.  Is this optimistic?  What’s your assessment of that?  Can a deal
be reached considering that re-election — or the election, rather, of
the hardline President?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, again, I don’t have a new deadline to set here.  As
you know because you follow this closely, they just finished their sixth
round.  It’s natural that they would be returning to capitals — the
negotiators — to consult with their capitals and leaders in their
capitals.  That’s happening now.   
  
Our view is that there is a decisionmaker here who — and that has not
changed, and it is the Supreme Leader.  So, we are going to continue to
work to move these diplomatic negotiations forward because it’s in the
interest of the United States and the interests of our national
security, but I don’t have a new timeline to set for you.   
  
But that — he’s been the decisionmaker before the election, after the
election, and even after an inauguration.   
  
Go ahead.   
  
Q    Thank you.  You announced sanctions against Belarus today, which
include visa restrictions, property assets designation, but previous
reports suggested there would be economical targets, that the sanctions
would be tougher.  Why have you refrained from putting economic
sanctions on Belarus, which would be more significant?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, we just announced a huge number of sanctions, in
coordination with our European partners to send a clear message that the
behavior is unacceptable — not just the diversion of the Ryanair flight,
but oppression — oppression of democracy within the country.   
  
And that’s something, again, we did in coordination with our partners,
because we felt these would be the most effective means of sending that
clear message.   
  
Go ahead.   
  
Q    Why hasn’t the President nominated anyone to lead the FDA at this
point?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  I know there’s — this is a popular and understandable
question.  Certainly, he’s eager to have somebody who’s qualified and
prepared to pl- — to take on the role.  And he’s not going to expedite
it until he’s ready to make a decision and make an announcement.   
  
Go ahead.  Go ahead.   
  
Q    Thank you, Jen.  The U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops is writing
a document to clarify who should receive Communion.  And this is
targeted at politicians, people who have a high public profile.  What’s
the President’s reaction to this?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, Joe Biden is a strong man of faith.  And as he noted
just a couple of days ago, it’s personal.  He goes to church, as you
know, nearly every weekend.  He even went when we were on our overseas
trip.  But it’s personal to him.  He doesn’t see it through a political
prism.  And we’re not going to comment otherwise on the inner workings
of the Catholic Church.  
  
Q    Would statements by the bishops make the President reconsider his
public support for policies that, you know, increase access to abortion
or allow access to abortion in the United States?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Again, that the President’s faith is personal.  It’s
something that has helped guide him through some challenging moments in
his life.  And that’s how many Americans see their faith as well, not
through a political prism.  So I would suspect he will continue to
attend church as he has for many, many years.   
  
Q    Does he realize that —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead, Jonathan.   
  
Q    — his stance on abortion runs contradictory to U.S. CCB
teachings?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead.  I think we’re going to move on to the next
question because I’ve just answered that and it’s personal.   
  
Go ahead.   
  
Q    Thank you.  There’s a gubernatorial election in New Jersey:
Governor Murphy is running for reelection.  He endorsed the President
last time and raised money for him.  Is the President going to help
Governor Murphy win reelection this fall?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, certainly he’d be eager to see him win  reelection, of
course, and be a — continue to be an important partner in the state of
New Jersey as we work to address — continue to address the pandemic, get
people back to work.  In terms of what his specific political plans are,
I will — I don’t have anything to preview for you at this point in
time.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Jen, one more question about Iran — on Ebrahim Raisi, the new
President-elect.  He has said that he’s accusing the U.S. of breaking
promises, saying, quote, “Based on the nuclear deal, you are obligated
to lift the sanctions and you did not fulfill your commitment.”  What
does the President have to say about that?  And then, secondly, he’s
under U.S. sanctions for the 1988 political prisoner executions.  So,
how do you deal with him?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, let me say that the new President will, of
course, be held accountable for violations of human rights on his watch
going forward.  We strongly urge the Iranian government, regardless of
who’s in power, to release political prisoners, improve respect for
human rights and fundamental freedoms for all Iranians.   
  
You know, again, I would note — and let me just say, on the sanctions
piece, that, as we’re in these discussions — in the middle of these
discussions, after the sixth round, the precise nature and sequence of
the sanc- — sanctions-related steps the United States would take — would
need to take to achieve a mutual return to compliance with the JCPOA is
a subject of the talks and of the discussions.   
  
And we certainly understand, as we’ve seen in past rounds of these
negotiations, that there will be a range of rhetoric to address
political needs at home; we understand that.  But our focus remains on
these negotiations that we look forward to continuing to participate
in.   
  
Q    Can I follow-up on that, Jen, if you don’t mind?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  Go ahead.   
  
Q    Thanks so much.  So, even if you manage to reach a nuclear deal or
a deal with the Iranians on nuclear deal reentry, Republicans in
Congress could force a vote to block sanctions relief, forcing the
Democrats who are still in office — including Majority Leader Schumer,
who voted against the original deal when it was negotiated.  So are you
confident you have the votes in Congress to relieve sanctions and
reenter the nuclear deal?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, there isn’t even a deal yet, right?  So I understand
why you’re asking that question, but it’s a little bit ahead of where we
are.  May we have a deal where we can have that discussion.   
  
The important case that we are going to continue to make is that Iran is
not a good actor in the world on a range of issues, whether it’s human
rights or their engagement in the region.  That continues to be the case
and would be even after — if we get to the point where we have a
deal.   
  
But what is in the interest of the United States?  What’s interest — in
the interests of the United States is having that return to visibility,
that return to an understanding of what their capabilities are, how
close they are to acquiring a nuclear weapon.  We’re not quite there
yet.   
  
When we get to a point, if we get to the point when there’s a deal,
we’re happy to have the discussion about the legislative vote count.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, Jen.  I thought you didn’t take my question, and so
(inaudible).  
  
MS. PSAKI:  No, go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you so much.  President Biden recently announced that the
U.S. will provide corona vaccine to North Korea.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Mm-hmm.  
  
Q    Do you know how many doses?  And what kind of a vaccine are you
going to provide to North Korea?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, we announced that we would be providing about \[half\]
a billion doses to the global community and the 92 countries, working
through COVAX for 75 percent of it, who are the lowest- and
middle-income countries in the world.  That’s what we’ve announced, but
I don’t have any more details than that.    
  
Go ahead in the back.   
  
Q    I think we’re at an hour.  
MS. PSAKI:  Okay, we’ll go to this last one since I just called on him,
and then we’ll — we’ll wrap it up.  Go ahead.   
  
Q    Yeah.  Representing an audience that is quite different from this
gentleman’s, I’d like to repeat his question: The U.S. Supreme Court
decision in City of Philadelphia v. Fulton, you said that the White
House issued a reaction to that; I don’t believe that is the case.  Was
the President briefed on that decision?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  I thought we had.  If not, I will get that to you and to
this gentleman over here.   
  
Thanks, everyone, so much.  We’ll do this again tomorrow.  Okay.   
  
2:00 P.M. EDT
