---
tags: press-briefings
date: '2021-06-04'
modified_time: 2021-06-07 08:12:09-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/06/04/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-and-director-of-the-national-economic-council-brian-deese-june-4-2021/
published_time: 2021-06-04 08:09:00-04:00
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Jen\_Psaki and Director of the National\
  \ Economic Council Brian Deese, June 4,\_2021"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

1:39 P.M. EDT

MS. PSAKI: Hi, everyone. Happy Friday.  We have a special guest with us
today, on Jobs Day — Brian Deese, our Director of the National Economic
Council — who will give some brief remarks on the jobs numbers and take
a few questions, and then we’ll proceed with the briefing.

MR. DEESE: Great. Hi, everybody. Glad to be with you today. So you all
heard from the President early today — earlier today with his
perspective on the May employment report. So I won’t repeat what he
said, but I just did want to provide a couple of contextual points and a
little bit more looking under the hood of that report from an economic
perspective.

So a couple of things that I think were notable from our perspective:
First, beyond the topline — strong job gains and the now consistent pace
of over 500,000 jobs a month for the last four months — we saw in May
the largest one-month decline in long-term unemployment — the long-term
unemployment rate since 2011, so in about a decade. That measure is
measuring people who have been out of work for at least 27 weeks, so for
more than half a year. And that number fell by 431,000 this month.

This is a really important indicator, certainly for those of us who have
been watching and tracking the economy closely over the course of the
last several years and into and through the pandemic. Because we know
the economic evidence that those who are long-term unemployed tend to
have the hardest time getting back into the labor force and eventually
find new employment.

And so, this substantial reduction is an important indicator of the —
that the health of the labor market and something that is obviously very
good news for those people and also, I think, for the economy writ
large.

Second is on wages. And the President touched on this, but we saw
average weekly earnings rise a half a percent this month, which —
consistent with the wage growth that we saw last month. We saw analogous
data on aggregate compensation come out earlier this week.

And this again is — it’s good news — good news for the American worker,
and also consistent with what the President was talking about when he
went to Cleveland last week, around looking at the broader goals of our
economic recovery to drive toward full employment and to put our economy
in a situation where we see sustained job gains but also wage gains for
American workers.

Third point is just how we see in this jobs report some of the impact of
the American Rescue Plan and the specific elements of that work that
were designed to try to address challenges that we face. Obviously,
beyond the direct vaccination effort, two of the key elements of the
American Jobs Plan were around trying to provide the support necessary
to get schools open, and then, in particular, to provide the support for
childcares and childcare centers to actually get more childcare centers
open, because we know that the more centers that are open, the more
slots there are, the safe — safe childcare environment is a key element
of how families and parents think about how to sustain work in the
post-COVID environment.

In May, we saw employment increase by 103,000 in state and local
education. That is a direct result of seeing more schools open, more
educator jobs. Good news for those people who are getting back to work
but also for the broader economic recovery.

We saw 18,000 jobs added in child and daycare services. Again, you draw
a direct line between the resources that were provided in the Rescue
Plan for those purposes and the results we’re seeing now.

I would also provide the context on that: You know, despite that
progress, we’re still down 800,000 state and local education jobs since
February of 2020. And we’re still down 135,000 jobs in childcare. And I
think that that’s a reminder of the depth of the crisis of this
pandemic, the ways that we have to go, but also, I think, importantly, a
reminder of why it is that we focused on passing a Rescue Plan that
would sustain support over the course of this year — that the Rescue
Plan was designed to not just provide support for a day or for a month,
but over the course of the year, as we understood — and the need to
continue to provide support, to continue to build back to a stronger
foundation.

Fourth, I think that, you know, we’re looking at this employment report
in the context of — of a number of contemporaneous economic data points.

The first — probably the most important that provides, I think,
additional reason for economic optimism — is that this report was a
snapshot of what — of where we were on May — May 12th. And perhaps most
evocatively, and just how quickly things are changing, were we — were we
to have been doing this briefing on the day that this — you know, on a
day in that week, we all still would have been masked. Things are
changing very quickly. And, in fact, since that period, an additional 21
million adult-age Americans have gotten fully vaccinated. And so we’re
making progress even — even since this snapshot in time.

And secondly, we’re looking at, you know, this job growth in the context
of the overall health and growth of the economy. And we saw earlier this
week the OECD significantly increase its economic growth forecast to 6.9
percent for 2021.

In that report, citing that the American Rescue Plan and the United
States fiscal response likely adding 3 to 4 percentage points to GDP
this year and positioning the U.S., as the President heads to his first
G7, as the only G7 country, the only OECD country in a position where
our future growth prospects are actually stronger today than they were
pre-pandemic in January 2020. That’s the — that’s only true of the
United States, not any other developed country.

The final point that I will make is a point that you will hear me repeat
is — if and when I come back and we talk more about jobs numbers in the
future — is that we are in an unprecedented situation; there’s a lot of
uncertainty in our economy; and we never put too much weight on any
individual data point, be it a jobs report or any other report.

We expect there to be ups and downs. We expect there to be bottlenecks
as we turn this economy back on. And our focus, the President’s focus,
is on executing an economic strategy that is working — we see that in
the data from today — but to be patient and think to the long term about
what the American economy needs and the American workers need as well.

So with that —

MS. PSAKI: Yeah. Just take a few —

MR. DEESE: — happy to open it up and take some questions.

MS. PSAKI: — a few today.

But go ahead, Zeke.

Q  Thanks, Brian. You mentioned just now, and the President mentioned in
his remarks earlier, the administration is going to look to efforts to
address some of the supply bottlenecks. Industry experts say
semiconductors — that’s a multi-year process to fix that. So what is the
administration going to do to fix some of those bottlenecks that are
raising prices right now?

MR. DEESE: Yeah, it’s a great question. So, first of all, I would say
this is an issue that the President has been focused on from the
campaign and early on in — upon taking office; that one of the things
that the pandemic has exposed is the degree of vulnerability in supply
chains and the need to have a deliberate strategy to try to build
resilience in our supply chains.

So that’s why the President actually, on February 25th, signed an
executive order tasking an all-of-government approach to try to look at
supply chain challenges across a set of four critical areas — one of
them being semiconductors — but also to launch a longer-term effort to
look at supply chain vulnerabilities and opportunities across sectors of
the economy.

So, that — that executive order had a 100-day timeframe associated with
it, which is — which is coming due at the end of this week. So you can
expect to hear more from us on this topic early next week.

But, in short, what I would say is, look: On a lot of these issues,
there is no immediate short-term, you know, magic-bullet fix. We have
been at this issue of semiconductors now for some time. We’ve been
spending an enormous amount of time with industry participants up and
down the semiconductor supply chain. We’ve identified some very concrete
solutions that we need to take, and thinking about a long-term strategy
to actually build resilience so that we’re not left vulnerable, the way
that we have been, to supply chain challenges in the future. Some of
that is working on bipartisan legislation to actually fund a dedicated
strategy to build out a domestic — domestic semiconductor industry in
the United States. We’re making a lot of progress on that front and are
optimistic there.

The other thing that we will be looking at is: Some areas where we have
seen, over the course the last 100 days, bottlenecks emerge that are
more short-term in nature, that may not connect to a longer-term
geostrategic or — or — or strategic supply chain issue, but are
blockages, in part because we’re seeing demand come back in some areas
faster than people anticipated.

So whether that’s in, you know, housing and construction materials, or
in transportation and logistics, those are areas we’re building on the
all-of-government approach that we have in place, we’re going to intend
to really zero in on: Are there pragmatic issues that we can help
facilitate? And some of that is bringing the right industry actors
around the table to really understand where those bottlenecks are and
whether there are ways to unstick them.

At the end of the day, a lot of that issues are transitory, associated
with turning an economy back on, and supply and demand mismatches that
the market will work through. But we want to be doing everything that we
can to try to help facilitate practical solutions where they exist.

So, we’ll have a lot more to say about the specifics of that, but I
think that hopefully gives you the context.

   MS. PSAKI: Monica.

   Q  So, last month, President Biden assessed that federal unemployment
benefits had not contributed — or he didn’t see much evidence — to the
more lackluster numbers. Is that still his assessment for this month?
And given how many states are now going to end them through the month of
June, with the President’s comments earlier today about them expiring in
90 days, should other states consider ending them sooner? Or could that
money be used elsewhere?

MR. DEESE: So, I’d say a couple things about that. I mean, the first
thing that — the first takeaway from this report is that we’re seeing
really robust job growth. And we’re seeing, in fact, historic job growth
in the context of historic economic growth.

So, we find ourselves — the American economy now — the economy is
growing faster than any other major economy, jobs are growing faster
than any other major economy. So, that’s the — that’s the — that’s the
immediate context.

With respect to the UI benefits — you heard the President earlier today
— this — that program was designed as a temporary lifeline. The UI
program itself provides a critical support network to the American
people and the American economy. And those temporary — the temporary
boost is slated to now expire in 90 days. And as the President said,
that’s appropriate.

With respect to some of the state changes, I just — just the important
context — which I think is implicit in your question, but just to be
clear — is that none of the state — none of the states have actually
eliminated any benefits yet. Some states will initiate that process over
the course of the next several weeks.

But, in many cases, what we’re talking about is states making changes to
benefits for four weeks, six weeks, eight weeks before the expiration
that is — that will happen under current law.

So, as we look at where we are in the economy, we see strong job growth
— 500,000 jobs a month on average the last four months, the U.S.
outpacing every other major economy in the world — and we see reason to
really focus on what are — what are actually going to be the drivers to
accelerate this recovery and then sustain it for the long term.

And that’s where you’ll see the President’s continued focus is on
finishing the job on vaccinations, delivering benefits to get schools
open, to get childcare available, and focusing now — now is the right
time to focus on what are those investments that are actually going to
sustain us, not just through a rapid recovery, but into full employment
and the kind of productive investments that you see in the Jobs Plan and
the Families Plan.

MS. PSAKI: Nancy, did you —

Q  I didn’t — oh, yeah. I —

MS. PSAKI: It’s got to be the last one, though, because he’s got to go
to a meeting.

Q  My question was similar to Monica’s, so I’ll ask another one. How do
you explain the drop in construction jobs last month? Wasn’t this a
sector that was actually revving up?

MR. DEESE: Yeah, so it’s a great question. I think if you look under the
hood in employment, in the establishment survey, what you see in May is
job gains very broad-based across almost all sectors — job gains.

We did see, you know — we did see a reduction in construction. I think
that, you know, the first thing I would say to that is that in any given
month, you see some movements up and down, and so you never want to read
too much into one month. But you saw construction jobs increase in the
prior month. We saw manufacturing jobs decline in the prior month and up
this month.

I think — but — so, you don’t want to read too much into one individual
month. But I do think that some of this is connected to the prior
question where we are — as we — as this economy recovers, we’re seeing
some supply chain bottlenecks, we’re seeing some mismatches between
supply and demand.

And as we anticipate those to be short term, they are still — you know,
they’re still causing bottlenecks. And we’re seeing that in different
sectors of the economy. I think some of that may be what’s going on in
the — in the construction sector as well.

So — so I think, you know, bottom line, we saw broad-based job growth
over the course of May. And I think that that’s the most important
takeaway. And, at the same time, you can expect the administration to be
really laser-focused on those places where we are seeing those
bottlenecks, trying to make sure that we’re doing everything that we
can, in a practical level, to try to help unstick those temporary
issues.

MS. PSAKI: We can do one more.

Q  I just want to clarify really quickly, because you didn’t say yes or
no: Does the President still feel that these enhanced jobless benefits
are not discouraging people from finding jobs?

MR. DEESE: The President — I’ll just, you know, restate what the
President said today: The President believes that the temporary
unemployment benefits and the temporary boost to those benefits has
provided a critical lifeline, that that lifeline was designed to be
temporary and to expire in about 90 days. And that’s — that’s
appropriate.

And I would, you know, also just put that in the context of that is a —
that is a very short-term issue, where most states you’re talking about
a set of weeks. And, really, as we look forward and are focused on what
are the things that are really going to drive the durability of this
economy going forward, you’re going to see the President continue focus
like a laser on the vaccination program.

The President identified and recognized, before coming into office, that
there would be no economic recovery if there wasn’t a viable eco- —
vaccination strategy. We’re seeing the progress in the vaccination
strategy help to — help to drive economic gains, help to make it
possible for more people to feel comfortable and capable to go back to
work.

And we anticipate that as we continue to succeed on that front, we
continue to make investments in things like school opening and childcare
and otherwise, we’re going to be able to sustain this progress going
forward.

MS. PSAKI: Thank you, Brian, very much.

Q  Do you have a status report on infrastructure? The infrastructure
talks?

MS. PSAKI: We’ll have more this afternoon.

MR. DEESE: We will have a status report on that later this afternoon —

MS. PSAKI: Yes.

MR. DEESE: — so, stay tuned.

MS. PSAKI: More to come.

MR. DEESE: Thanks, guys.

MS. PSAKI: Okay, thank you so much, Brian. Let’s do this again next
month. Okay, a couple of items for all of you: Starting this weekend, as
we noted the other day, we will — and with collaboration and support —
we will be launching our National Month of Action, so that is exciting.
We’ve outlined a lot of those specific details, but it’s starting this
weekend, so wanted to note that.

I also wanted to give you all an update that, today, the U.S. government
delivered 1 million doses of the Johnson & Johnson vaccine to the
Republic of Korea. The friendship and alliance between our two countries
run deep, especially in times of great need and hardship.

As was noted when the President hosted — hosted the South Koreans here
just a few weeks ago, this was done in order to ensure the safety and
readiness of U.S. and ROK military forces. And today, thanks to a
whole-of-government effort, we are delivering on that promise.

And I would just note, again, that our plan — our commitment to deliver
80 million doses is five times more than any other country and 13
percent of the U.S. supply. And we’re committed to doing that by the end
of June.

Also would note the Vice President is traveling to Mexico and Guatemala
next week in her role overseeing diplomacy toward the Northern Triangle
and Mexico.

She lands in Guatemala on the evening of June 6th. She’ll be on the
ground there until the evening of June 7th before flying to Mexico. Then
she’ll be in Mexico until the evening of June 8th. She’ll meet with the
President of Guatemala, the President of Mexico, and — as well as
community leaders, innovators, entrepreneurs, and U.S. embassy
personnel. And I’m sure they’ll do many readouts from there.

The week ahead: On Monday, the President will meet with NATO Secretary
General Stoltenberg at the White House. The President and Secretary
General will discuss the June 14th NATO Summit in Brussels and many
issues on the NATO agenda, including reinforcing transatlantic security
in the face of challenges from Russia and China.

They will also discuss adapting NATO to address threats like
cyberattacks and climate change, while continuing to ensure a more
equitable sharing of responsibility among Allies.

As we’ve said, revitalizing our alliances is a priority for this
administration, and our Alliance with NATO is a big part of that.

As you all know, on Wednesday, the President and First Lady will also be
traveling to the United Kingdom for their first stop for their first
overseas trip. And we’ll have one of the members of the national
security team, hopefully at the highest level — we’re working on
schedules — on Monday to do a full preview of the trip for all of you.

Last thing I would note — I think that was it, actually.

Zeke, go ahead.

Q  Thanks, Jen. Looking ahead to that trip, the backend —

MS. PSAKI: Yeah.

Q  — the meeting with Russian President Vladimir Putin: He had some
comments today where he was suggesting that he was not expecting any
concrete breakthroughs. I was hoping you could describe what the
President hopes to get out of that meeting. And is the President going
to commit to raising issues, like the imprisonment of Navalny, the
imprisonment of American citizens in Russia, directly with President
Putin, face to face?

MS. PSAKI: Well, first, I would say that the President never holds back
in raising human rights issues, the detainment of activists, with the
Russian President. And, certainly, as our — as our readout made clear
when he spoke with him directly, he didn’t hold back in that
conversation. I don’t expect he will when they meet in two weeks at the
summit.

In terms of the focus of the summit: You know, I think the — we’ll have
more to preview on Monday. But as I’ve noted in here previously, I think
the President expects to raise a number of issues, including Ukraine and
what we’ve seen as aggressive behavior at the border by the Russians.

He also will raise cyber activity, malign activity, problematic
activity, harmful activity we’ve seen take place. Of course, there is
the SolarWinds hack, but also the ransomware hacks. As we’ve talked
about, the actions of criminal groups within a country — there’s a
responsibility of the leaders of that country to take action. And
there’s no doubt President Biden will be raising that directly in that
conversation.

I don’t think we’re setting this up to be a meeting where there is going
to be, you know, an outcome that resolves every issue or every challenge
in our relationship. We expect there still to be challenging
conversations moving forward. But it’s an opportunity to discuss areas
where we — where we have mutual interest, like nuclear — nuclear
security and stability, and also to raise issues where we have concern.
And we expect that — this to be a forum for that, face to face.

Q  Separately, the President just got back from a couple days at the
beach. Heading into the summer travel season, should we expect to hear
from the President — you know, encouraging Americans to travel,
particularly domestically, as a way to stimulate the economy, to spend
their money here at home? As sort of — as the pandemic seems to be
waning and travel does seem to be picking up, is that — is there going
to be a pivot from — on the part of the President, going forward, to
encourage Americans to, sort of, get out there and spend the money?

MS. PSAKI: Well, I think the President will continue to encourage
Americans to safely get out there into their communities, especially
vaccinated Americans, who are safer to travel, to go to restaurants, to
not wear masks. And certainly, we abide by CDC guidelines, as you know.
But the President went to a restaurant just last weekend with the Vice
President — last weekend? — on Monday with the Vice President. They had
a meal — something he hasn’t done a lot of; most Americans haven’t done
a lot of over the last year and a half.

So certainly, he will — he will lead by action and continue to encourage
Americans to take advantage of the benefits of being vaccinated; and for
those who are not vaccinated, to get a shot so they can take advantage
of those benefits themselves.

Q  And just one last one for me, since it’s Friday: Has the President
been briefed on the unidentified aerial phenomena report? And is he
satisfied with the conclusions? Does he want additional work in that
space?

MS. PSAKI: Because it’s Friday — it’s always a little wacky on Friday.
So, let me first say that we know there have been press reports about
the status of this report. This is a DOD report, and so I would
certainly refer to them on the status of the report. Their work with
ODNI is ongoing.

We — the team is actively working on it, but it’s not at a conclusion
phase, as I understand, and as I think they’ve commented from their
building.

I will say that we take reports of incurgion \[sic\] — incursions into
our airspace by any aircraft, identified or unidentified, very seriously
and investigate each one. Safety and security of our personnel, of our
operations are of paramount concern. There’s a requirement to put out
this report, and certainly our appropriate teams are working on
finalizing it.

Q  But was the President briefed on it? Or has he been briefed on it?

MS. PSAKI: I don’t have any update on internal briefings, no.

Go ahead.

Q  Thanks, Jen. There seems to be a bit of a shift in tone here because,
last month, the President was pretty adamant that he did not believe
that these enhanced unemployment benefits were playing a role or
factoring into people’s decisions not to get back into the jobs market.
Today, though, he’s underscoring that these benefits are simply
temporary, set to expire in 90 days. So, which is it? Yes or no: Does
the President believe that these unemployment benefits are playing a
role here?

MS. PSAKI: Well, I think we shouldn’t lose sight of some basic facts
here, which is that those governors who have made the decision, as they
have every right to do, to pull back on unemployment benefits — or not
accept them, I should say, accurately — that hasn’t even taken effect in
any state across the country. So in terms of how we’re evaluating the
impact, we haven’t even seen the impact yet; that takes effect in June.

It is important for people to understand, factually, that the President,
no one from the administration has ever proposed making these permanent
or doing it over the long term. And sometimes I think that was just an
effort to make that clear in the public.

So we understand there’s politics at play here. That’s okay. Every
governor is going to make their own decision.

At the end of the day, what we see as the biggest driving factor is
vaccines and individuals being vaccinated feeling safe to go back to
workplaces. The fact that childcare centers have rehired, that teachers
have gone back to work — those are all positive signs. And at the end of
the day, we’ve created — the President and this administration has
created more jobs than any President and any administration in modern
American history.

So that’s, kind of, how we see the jobs data.

Q  But based on the data, do you believe that these benefits are having
any kind of impact in people deciding not to maybe reenter the job force
right now?

MS. PSAKI: Well, again, I think that’s a really difficult thing to
analyze, given we have created a historic number of jobs in the last
four months — more than any President in modern American history. So —
and the jobs — the UI benefits haven’t even been pulled back in any
state.

So it’s a question I’m sure we can have a discussion about in the next
couple of months as we see what the impact is on different states, or if
that’s a factor. But we think the biggest factors overall are more
people getting vaccinated, more people being comfortable and feeling
safe going out into the workforce, and that’s where we feel there’s
going to be an encouraging upward trend.

Q  I guess I’m trying to understand what happened in the last month
though. Because last month, you said you didn’t see any indication of
that, when looking through the data.

MS. PSAKI: I don’t think we can evaluate the data that hasn’t been
applied in states across the country yet. And what we’re really talking
about from state to state is governors making a decision to pull back on
accepting unemployment benefits for six weeks or eight weeks. That’s it.
It hasn’t even started yet.

So I would leave it to all of you and your outside analysts to decide
whether that is a big factor in terms of economy and data, or whether
that is a political discussion we’re having.

Go ahead.

Q  Thanks, Jen. Does the White House have any reaction to Facebook’s
decision to suspend President Trump for two years? Was this a reasonable
consequence for what he said?

MS. PSAKI: Well, as always, it’s a decision for the company to make and
any platform to make. And clearly, they’ve come out and made their
decision.

Our view continues to be, though, that every platform — whether it’s
Facebook, Twitter, any other platform that is disseminating information
to millions of Americans — has a responsibility to crack down on
disinformation; to crack down on false information, whether it’s about
the election or even about the vaccine, as we’re trying to keep the
American public safe and get more people — or return to normal out in
society.

And I think, as we look at it, we learned a lot from President Trump —
the former president — over the last couple of years about his behavior
and how he uses these platforms. It feels pretty unlikely that the zebra
is going to change his stripes over the next two years. We’ll see.

Q  So does this decision validate what President Biden has repeatedly
said about Mr. Trump, which is that words matter?

MS. PSAKI: Well, I don’t know that it’s a validation. I think the
President isn’t the only one who thinks that. Words do matter. Words do
have an impact. We saw the impact, on January 6th, of words on social
media platforms, and we’ve seen the impact of words as it relates to
disinformation, traveling, around the vaccine, around election
integrity.

So, of course, we think words matter. This is a decision by a
private-sector company. We’ll see what their evaluation is a couple of
years from now and what other steps they can take, most importantly.

Go ahead.

Q  Jen, our reporting indicates that the Biden administration is
considering counter cyberattacks to stop the ransomware criminals in
Russia. How big a factor is the upcoming summit in that decision making?
Is there a concern that if you did that before the meeting in Geneva, it
could derail the talks? And if it doesn’t happen before then, what
message does it send to Russia after these multiple cyber intrusions?

MS. PSAKI: Well, let me first say that we always reserve the option of
responding to behavior or actions that are unacceptable and are harmful.
And some of those responses are seen and some of them are unseen, and we
typically don’t give a timeline on that in a public capacity.

But I will also note to you that when the President — when we announced
the invitation to have this discussion, it was also in the same time
period where we announced the sanctions that we were putting in place in
response to harmful actions by the Russian government — right? — in
response to SolarWinds, in response to their engagement in our own
election.

So we expect — this is — this is diplomacy in action here, right? We
will take action when warranted — sometimes seen, sometimes unseen. We
typically don’t predict that ahead of time. And we also will look for
areas of opportunity to have a discussion.

But we are not having this summit as a reward. We’re not having the
summit because we expect to only talk about areas where we agree or
disagree.

Q  And in the President’s budget blueprint, there’s only about $1.3
billion dedicated to bolstering cybersecurity. Given what we’ve seen
over the last few weeks, is that enough? Are there talks that more
resources need to be dedicated to this? Or are you thinking more to
leave this to the private sector for those companies that we’ve seen
that have been impacted?

MS. PSAKI: Yeah, it’s a really good question. I mean, I will say that we
know that the ransomware threat is urgent, it’s complex, and it’s been
increasing over the last several years. And, you know, it feels new to
us over the last couple of weeks, but it has been increasing rapidly
around the world over the last several years.

One of the reasons that we have initiated a rapid review internally is
because we recognize that threat. And we will assess, based on that
review, what additional needs there are, both from the federal
government — in coordination with Congress — or from the private sector.
And that review is focused on the disruption of ransomware
infrastructure and actors working closely with the private sector;
building an international coalition, of course — which will be a focus
of the President — will be a topic of discussion, I should say, of the
President’s foreign trip; expanding cryptocurrency analysis, which we
know is a factor, given so many of these ransomware attacks are — you
know, if ransom is paid, which, of course, we don’t recommend and don’t
advise from the FBI, but it’s often done through cryptocurrency
channels; and reviewing our own policy.

So that review is ongoing internally with our national security team,
and we’ll assess what additional needs might be needed.

Q  And one last bit of housekeeping. Last month, you said you didn’t
have an update but that you maybe expected the President to get his
first physical soon. Do you have anything — any update to provide on
that? Should we expect that to happen this summer, or is there anything
else you can give us (inaudible)?

MS. PSAKI: It will definitely happen this year. And when he has his next
physical, we will provide that information transparently to all of you,
but I don’t have a date for you.

Go ahead.

Q  Thank you, Jen. Would the President support a commission to
investigate the initial U.S. response to COVID-19?

MS. PSAKI: A commission in Congress?

Q  Or a presidential commission.

MS. PSAKI: I would say, if members of Congress have a discussion and
want to have a discussion about that, we’re happy to hear from them. But
our focus right now, as you know, Peter, is on our own internal
investigation — our own internal process, I should say — using all of
the resources of government, tapping into our data and science experts
to see what more we can determine over the next 90 days, or less than 90
days, about the origins of the pandemic.

Q  Mike Pompeo is now saying that when he was the Secretary of State and
he was trying to investigate the origins of COVID-19 there, the NIH
folks were trying to suppress what he was doing. So is there any concern
from the White House that there may have been people at the NIH who were
making policy decisions based not in science, but based on their
personal political beliefs or preferences?

MS. PSAKI: Well, I really don’t have any analysis of the last
administration’s inter-working.

Q  Well, a lot of these people are still over there, and you see how
they operate.

MS. PSAKI: Here’s what we know, Peter: We know that Dr. Fauci and many
members of the NIH team — medical and science experts — because of their
work over the last 10 years, we have developed a focus, an effort, an
apparatus to fight this pandemic, and we are grateful to them for their
work. Everybody wants to get to the bottom of the origin: former
Secretary Pompeo, President Biden, Democrats and Republicans across the
board.

We all share a concern about the challenge — and that is the
intransigence, at times, by the Chinese in providing data and providing
information. We share agreement on that. We all want to get to the
bottom of what happened here.

Q  And you mentioned Dr. Fauci. There have been these emails that have
come out through a FOIA request that make it seem like — we knew that he
had his hands full at the time, trying to figure out what to do, but it
seems like there were times that he was saying one thing in email and
then coming to this microphone and saying something else. If that is the
case and if that affected the U.S. policy posture at the time, should he
be held accountable?

MS. PSAKI: Well, I’ve talked a little bit about Dr. Fauci, and Dr. Fauci
has been out doing several interviews himself and answering questions on
these emails and questions that you all may have.

Dr. Fauci is a renowned public servant — civil servant, I should say —
career civil servant. He’s overseen management of multiple global health
crises. And attacks — and attacks launched on him are certainly
something we wouldn’t stand by.

I understand there’s interest in the emails. He’s answered a lot of
questions on the emails. I don’t think I’m going to have much more to
add on them from here.

Q  Do you think the attacks are political against Dr. Fauci?

MS. PSAKI: I’m going to let Dr. Fauci speak to his own defense of his
emails from 17 months ago, before this President even took office.

Q  Okay. And then, finally, does President Biden have a position on
gain-of-function research?

MS. PSAKI: Well, we have not — as Dr. Fauci has actually said
repeatedly, we’ve never approved any funding for gain-of-function
research in Wuhan. I know that’s, I think, why you’re asking the
question. I believe some may have been approved, or there was funding
approved during the prior administration. There’s a framework, I should
say. This is not meant to be a criticism of funding and how it’s
approved through different NIH programs, but I would send you to them to
give more of an explanation of the funding mechanisms.

Q  And just — since you mentioned Dr. Fauci again, can you imagine any
circumstance where President Biden would ever fire him?

MS. PSAKI: No.

Go ahead.

Q  Just to follow up a little bit on Russia: I know you’ve said
repeatedly that this is not a reward to Vladimir Putin, but what can you
do in terms of stage management to make sure that it doesn’t become
that. I mean, become a platform for him to offer alternate facts,
alternate analysis of history, of what’s going on, and also provide, you
know, a way for him to damage the opposition within his own country. Are
you thinking through that issue? Are you — how will you address that?

MS. PSAKI: Well, one thing is we’re going to bring all of you with us to
report on what he says and doesn’t say, and factcheck what he says or
doesn’t say.

The other piece is: President Biden, as you’ve heard him talk about, has
known, has engaged with President Putin in the past throughout his
career, and he is never one to hold back on areas where he has concern,
areas where he feels the actions of the Russian government or Russian
leadership are hurting the United States. And he certainly has no
intention of holding back during this meeting, publicly or privately.

But at the end of the day, our job, or our focus, is on moving toward a
more stable and predictable relationship with Russia. There are areas
where we can work together. We’ve talked a little bit about — you know,
we renewed START — New START, early on in the administration, for five
years. That’s an area we can work together.

There are ongoing negotiations for the Iran nuclear deal. They just
finished their fifth round of discussions. Russia is a member of the
P5+1. We can have a discussion there.

At the same time, we also feel that no country should be, you know,
harboring — has responsibility not to harbor criminal individuals who
are launching ransomware attacks, and that will certainly be a part of
the discussion as well.

So, you’re right: When we have conversations with leaders we disagree
with, where we have some adversarial components of our relationship, it
is important to send the message that we’re not validating their
actions. In fact, we’re calling them out on it. But it is also an
opportunity, face to face, to raise those issues and also to hopefully
move toward a more stable and predictable relationship moving forward.

Q  And on infrastructure — you know, is the corporate tax hike that was
originally proposed, is that pretty much dead now? Can we expect to see
it in reconciliation? And is there anything else that President Biden
plans to offer when he speaks with the senator today?

MS. PSAKI: Well, since you gave the opportunity, Trevor, I think there’s
an important note here. One is that we didn’t talk a lot about the book
line taxes that the President talked about yesterday — that we’ve talked
about a little bit yesterday — the 15 percent tax that these companies —
we’re asking these companies — or we think these companies should pay —
that pay no tax — no tax.

That was in his original American Jobs Plan proposal. It was in the
lengthy factsheet. I’m sure Reuters wrote many stories about.

So, that was a component that we didn’t get — we didn’t have a lot of a
public debate about, but it has been something he talked about on the
campaign. It’s in our budget. It was in his American Jobs Plan proposal.

In terms of the corporate tax increases that was also proposed and
certainly has been more of a public component of our discussion, you
know, that’s something he continues to believe corporations can pay more
money; that that’s a way to fund his bold ideas.

There are a lot of ideas that he wants to move forward on, whether it’s
extending the Child Tax Credit, universal pre-K — proposals that he has
put forward in the American Families Plan, which we are looking forward
to having a continued discussion about. And there are also a range of
payfors he has proposed.

Q  And that 15 percent minimum that you just

brought up, is that — did you bring that up because that’s something
that Yellen is pursuing on the international stage as well?

   MS. PSAKI: No. Separate. I’m glad you asked that question. Separate
issue. I know it’s confusing because the 15/15. Separate issue. There is
a discussion, as you noted, on the global stage about a global minimum
tax.

But this is a — this is a proposal the President talked about on the
campaign trail, he proposed in his American Jobs Plan, and also in our
budget that would eve- — would require — you know, would have companies
that didn’t pay any tax, wouldn’t allow them to pay zero tax.

And so we see it as a separate entity. We still believe the tax rate
should be higher than that, as the President has proposed, on a corp- —
for a corporate rate.

Go ahead, Josh.

Q  Can you give us a sense of what your expectations are for their
discussion? Like, is it by phone, for instance, with Senator Capito
(inaudible)?

MS. PSAKI: Oh, sure, sure.

Q  Is this — are we any near a decisional process or a point for the
President?

MS. PSAKI: Sure. So they will be talking by phone — President and
Senator Capito — this afternoon. He’ll also be talking with Congressman
DeFazio. And we will be doing readouts of those conversations that are
happening this afternoon — as we speak, perhaps. But we will provide
readouts.

You know, I’m not going to obviously prejudge conversations, but I would
say, for the conversation with Senator Capito, they’ve had good-faith
discussions. There are areas where, of course, you know, the President
has priorities, where he’d like to see more, including more investments,
but also areas including electric vehicle investments, rebuilding
veterans hospitals. And that’s part of the discussion — as well as
payfors.

And as Trevor just asked about, but as we talked about a bit yesterday,
what the President put forward — he looked at all of his tax proposals,
and what he put forward are ways to pay for an infrastructure proposal
that he — that shouldn’t cross any bar or line for Republicans in the
Senate who say they won’t touch the 2017 tax plan.

So, I think the question, really, on that front is: Do you think these
companies should pay no tax at all or 15 percent, which is very viable,
supported by 85 per- — 84 percent of Republicans in the country?

Q  Does the President believe he’s running out of time to try to reach a
deal, or is there runway left?

MS. PSAKI: There’s runway left. He’s going to have these discussions.
There are Democrats and Republicans who are talking with each other.
We’re going to engage with them as well and continue to have a
discussion with a range of interested leaders in Congress about how we
can come together to make a historic investment in infrastructure. There
are some realities of timelines, including the fact that Congressman
DeFazio is leading the markup of key components of the American Jobs
Plan next week — key infrastructure components — where there is a big
overlap. There is a lot of interest and excitement by many Democrats in
Congress about that.

So it’s not unlimited, but we have an opportunity. He’s going to talk to
Senator Capito this afternoon. We’re going to see how those
conversations go. We’re going to keep a range of pathways open to move
these bold ideas forward.

Q  And just briefly, Brian Deese talked about the supply shortage issue.
Can you talk about any particular types of supplies that we’re talking
about, the — you know, with regards, for instance, to the construction
job gains that were pretty sluggish? What are we talking about here?
Lumber? Like, what are the powers the government has to try to address
those?

MS. PSAKI: Well, you — I know you’ve covered this closely, as have
others. Lumber is certainly one of the areas, and we’ve seen an impact
on the housing market in part because of a shortage of some of these
supplies that’s having an impact on new builds, that’s then having an
impact on the pricing for homes that have been around a longer period of
time. I know you know this, but just to catch everybody else up. So —

Q  (Inaudible.) (Laughter.)

MS. PSAKI: Okay. So — so we’ve seen that impact, and we have been doing
this 100-day review. Certainly, looking at how we can address those
challenges and issues through the role of the federal government is what
we’ll talk about when we have more details to share, and hopefully that
will be next week.

Q  Are tariffs a way that you can address the supply shortages?

MS. PSAKI: I’m just not going to —

Q  Or changing tariffs?

MS. PSAKI: I’m not going to get too ahead or ahead at all of where we
will come down in our final rollouts of our supply chain review process.

Q  Thank you.

MS. PSAKI: Go ahead, Kaitlan.

Q  Is the President expecting a counteroffer during this conversation
with Senator Capito today?

MS. PSAKI: I think the President is expecting they’re going to have a
discussion. Part of negotiation is seeing how you can come closer to
each other. He’s obviously come down quite a bit in what he originally
proposed, and hopefully they’ll have more they can add to their
proposal, but we’ll see. But it’s a discussion, not an exchange of
paper.

Q  Well, you described Wednesday as a discussion too, but President
Biden made a counteroffer, kind of, to them on Wednesday.

MS. PSAKI: I think that might be over-formalizing the discussion.
There’s a discussion about where there might be areas of agreement,
then, obviously, she’ll — she may have to take things back; he may have
to discuss on our end with Democratic leadership.

So, it’s more of a discussion and where we can find common ground, hear
each other out. And we’ll see, you know, if this continues to be a
viable path forward, and we’ll continue to pursue a range of paths.

Q  Thank you. And on these ransomware attacks, does the President view
those as a national security threat?

MS. PSAKI: I certainly think the President views those as a rising
national concern — security concern and an area where we need to
continue to keep our focus, keep our assets, focus on energy and
brainpower on what we can do to address it.

That’s why we launched this rapid review to take a look at these four
areas of focus, including our approach through the U.S. government,
including how we work with the private sector, including cryptocurrency,
and also including what role we can have on the global stage.

So, certainly this is a priority to him and an area where we will be
spending a significant amount of time in the coming months.

Q  Okay. And my last question, just on the — on the enhanced
unemployment benefits, you said that you can’t really make a
determination because no states have actually cut them off yet — the
states that are pulling out of the program early. But if nothing has
changed, shouldn’t you be able to maintain the President’s pretty
unequivocal position, last month, that they are not encouraging people
to stay home?

MS. PSAKI: Well, if we had that concern, we would be ending them. We’re
not. I mean, we — there’s still 7 million people out of work — right? —
and we’re talking about $300 benefits for three more months.

I think the point I was trying to make, and I think Brian was trying to
make, is that the governors who have made the decision — which they have
every right to do — to pull back on these benefits are really talking
about having them for six weeks or eight weeks less than we would
already intend to have them.

So I think the question is: Do you think Americans — given 7 million are
still out of work, or more than that — could benefit from eight more
weeks or 10 more weeks of these $300 unemployment benefits? Our view is
they can, and they should. And that’s an extra helping hand we can give
to millions of people across this country. Some governors disagree.
That’s okay. At the end of the day, in early September, these — these
benefits will no longer be a part of the plan.

Q  Thank you.

MS. PSAKI: Go ahead.

Q  One quick thing — housekeeping on Russia, and then I have something
on Israel.

MS. PSAKI: Sure.

Q  You mentioned a few moments ago that the press will be with the
President when he attends the summit in Geneva. Can you commit that he
will have a press conference, a side-by-side with President Putin, as
previous U.S. presidents have done?

MS. PSAKI: I don’t know what the format will look like at this point in
time. I can certainly commit that he will communicate and speak to all
of you, but I don’t know what the format looks like yet.

Q  I mean, obviously, a press conference would be preferable, but I
think —

MS. PSAKI: He will answer questions. I don’t know what the format will
look like at this point.

Q  Yeah. But, I mean, the — given the history of the — fairly recent
history of side-by-side press conferences between the U.S. president and
the Russian president, it would make certainly a — it would be an
opportunity for us to ask the kind of questions of both presidents that
I think our President might want to answer.

MS. PSAKI: Well, I know that we will make President Biden available to
all of you, and I certainly hope my Russian counterpart makes President
Putin available to all of you as well. I don’t know what the format will
look like at this point.

Q  On Israel: We’re a couple of clicks closer to the formation of the
new government. Have there been any developments here in President
Biden’s interaction with either the existing government or the new
government in formation?

MS. PSAKI: No, not at this point. I think we’re going to allow for that
process to move forward. And as you know, it may be a little bit more
time before the final formation is completed.

Q  What is the plan for his interaction with the new government, should
it be formed?

MS. PSAKI: Well, we have a long and abiding relationship, strategic
relationship with Israel, and that will continue to be the case no
matter who is leading the country.

Q  But would he call Prime Minister Bennett upon the formation of that
government?

MS. PSAKI: I don’t have any calls to predict for you, but certainly he
will continue to engage with his counterparts in Israel and many
countries around the world.

Q  And then, lastly, were you able to nail down whether or not he had
actually ever met Naftali Bennett before?

MS. PSAKI: You did ask that question. I’m sorry, I did not ask him. I
will follow up and see if I can find that out.

He, I know — well, Naftali Bennett — you would remember the years he was
the chief of staff to Prime Minister Netanyahu. We’ll have to do a
little data tracing here.

Q  Yeah, (inaudible) jobs. But — (inaudible).

MS. PSAKI: Yeah. Yeah.

Okay. Go ahead.

Q  Thanks, Jen. On the vaccine announcement from yesterday —

MS. PSAKI: Yep.

Q  — can you give an idea at all of how many doses we can expect? Are
there going to be monthly surplus shipments going out to other
countries? And will they follow the same 25 percent, 75 percent, sort
of, breakdown? Are there any discussions about that?

MS. PSAKI: Eighty million doses by the end of June.

Q  But in future months. I mean, it was said yesterday there — we can
expect more this summer. So (inaudible).

MS. PSAKI: That’s right. And we’re going to continue to provide part of
our supply to the global community. But I don’t have anything to predict
for you beyond that.

Q  And, on infrastructure, can we expect the President to meet with
Senators Romney and Manchin at all as one of the pathways that the White
House is exploring?

MS. PSAKI: Look, I think, as I — as I alluded to a little bit earlier,
the President is certainly open to and interested in continuing to
engage with a range of members who have an interest in making a historic
investment in our nation’s infrastructure; modernizing our roads, rails,
and bridges; and preparing us to compete over the long term.

I know those are two of the members who have expressed that publicly, so
we will see what the future days hold.

Q  And just on the President’s trip: Can we expect him to meet with the
Pope at all? There’s been some reporting out there that he might be
meeting with the Pope.

MS. PSAKI: That’s surprising. I don’t think you can expect that on this
trip.

Go ahead.

Q  Thanks, Jen. Again, on the issue of the COVID vaccines: Can you talk
a little bit about the timing? I know you said by the end of June, I
think.

MS. PSAKI: Yeah.

Q  But how soon can the other countries start expecting to receive these
vaccines? And also, how are you prioritizing which countries will get
them first?

MS. PSAKI: Sure. Well, first, let me say — I mentioned, a little bit
earlier, 80 million by the end of June. Obviously, 25 percent of those
are coming — are going bilaterally to countries. We’re going to get
those doses out — those 25 million as quickly as we can, and we’ll
provide you updates as those doses go out.

So I had an update this morning about the dose — or this afternoon about
the doses that went out to the ROK, and we’ll continue to have more
updates on that, on those doses.

The additional doses — the 75 percent, which are going through COVAX —
we’ve put out, kind of, our prioritization of the regions that those
will be going to. And part of our focus right now is on the herculean
logistical challenge of getting these vaccines out to the right places.
This is one of the reasons that we’re doing a large percentage of them
through COVAX: because of their capability to do exactly that.

But just to step back, and as a reminder: This is not just, kind of,
shipping these doses overseas. This is also ensuring that we can get
them to the right places, that they have the ability to put them in
arms, that they are at the right temperature. And so, these are all
factors we’re considering as we’re determining how to get them out and
the pace in the weeks ahead.

Q  One more. The U.S. and the EU have begun discussions on lifting
tariffs on steel and aluminum imports. I’m just wondering if you have an
update on what kind of progress, if any, has been made in those talks
and if you expect this issue to come up during the G7.

MS. PSAKI: Well, we certainly expect that our G7 partners will range —
will raise a range of issues of concern to them and a focus. And,
certainly, I’d let them to speak to what those are, but the tariffs
could be one of them. I don’t have anything to predict for you or
preview for you.

I have to wrap this up in a minute, but, Jerry, I’m just going to go to
you because I — you haven’t been here since I’ve been here.

Q  I have not.

MS. PSAKI: Okay. Good to see you.

Q  Good to see you. Kind of a parochial Buffalo question.

MS. PSAKI: Okay.

Q  The Canadian border has been closed for a very long time.

MS. PSAKI: Yeah.

Q  There’s a lot of concern about that in all the northern tier states
right now. And Prime Minister Trudeau has said that he has to get 75
percent of the people in his country vaccinated before the border
reopens.

That being the case, would the United States consider opening the
American side of the border first, before Prime Minister Trudeau would
do that? Or does there have to be a binational agreement?

MS. PSAKI: Well, I’ll first say that, as it relates to borders — Canada
or Mexico — we really rely on the guidance of the CDC and our health and
medical experts. So, in terms of how they look at the data and
information, I would point you to them and whether they would do that in
a preliminary fashion or not.

Certainly, any discussion about reopening a border would be done through
— in part through diplomatic channels. But we really are relying and
waiting on the guidance of the CDC before we make any next decision
there on the border.

Q  And how much concern is there in the White House about the fact that
here we are — it’s summer travel season, there’s a lot of concern in
those northern border states about the economic impact, as well as the
personal impact on people who’ve may — you know, couples that may be
separated by the border?

MS. PSAKI: Yeah, we’re very sensitive to that, Jerry. And we certainly
know that many people want to not just get back to normal, but be able
to travel; be able to see loved ones, some living on different sides of
the border; be able to go to restaurants and shop and even do things
along those lines. And we’re eager to get back to normal, whatever that
means, including reopening the border. But we have a responsibility
during a global pandemic, which we’re still fighting every day, to rely
on the advice and guidance of our medical experts.

Okay, I think we have one more question here.

Q  Jen, does the administration remain committed to waiving vaccine
patents at the WTO? Today, the EU submitted a counterproposal, saying
that they don’t want to do that. And will the President be pushing for
this issue at the G7?

MS. PSAKI: Our position hasn’t changed on that.

I think we have one question. Okay. Hello to our virtual Melissa. Hi,
Melissa. Thanks for joining us.

Q  Hi, thank you. Right now, approximately 16 million public school
students in the U.S. live at home that lack Internet — high-speed
Internet. The President released a plan to ensure that people in rural
areas will have Internet access, but reports show that 13.6 million
urban households also do not have Internet; many can’t afford it. What
does the administration plan to do to increase home Internet service for
families in low-income urban neighborhoods?

MS. PSAKI: Well, it’s a great question. And, Melissa, thanks for joining
us, and hopefully you weren’t waiting too long.

I will say that in the pa- — in the President’s American Jobs Plan he’s
proposed, we’re proposing to expand universal broadband access across
the country to urban and rural areas to level exactly that playing
field: to ensure that kids in cities, as well as in more rural
communities where there isn’t as expansive broadband access, have — have
access. And we’ve seen over the last year and a half, during the
pandemic, what a disparity it creates, both economically, but for kids
who are just trying to get an education.

The Vice President, as the President announced in his joint session
address, is leading this effort. It’s an important part of the
negotiation, and fortunately one where Democrats and Republicans have a
lot of agreement about the need to move forward on expanding access to
broadband.

Thank you so much. I apologize for this being short today. I have to go
do some regional TV. And anyone who has follow-up questions, come up or
email me and we’ll talk more. Thanks, everyone.

2:34 P.M. EDT
