---
category: press-briefings
date: '2021-06-15'
modified_time: 2021-06-15 05:32:14-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/06/15/background-press-call-by-a-senior-administration-official-previewing-the-u-s-eu-summit/
published_time: 2021-06-15 05:15:00-04:00
title: "Background Press Call by a Senior Administration Official Previewing the U.S.-EU\_\
  Summit"
---
 
Via Teleconference

(June 14, 2021)

3:08 P.M. CEST

MODERATOR: Good afternoon, everyone. Thank you so much for joining us
for this background briefing previewing tomorrow’s U.S.-EU Summit. This
call will be on background, attributable to “senior administration
officials,” embargoed until 7:00 a.m. Central European Summer Time
tomorrow.

By joining this call, you are agreeing to these ground rules. Not for
reporting or attribution, but just for your knowledge, on today’s call,
we will have joining us \[senior administration official\].

Before we dive into the embargoed session of the preview of the U.S.-EU
Summit, our speaker is going to also provide a brief, unembargoed,
on-background update of some of President Biden’s engagements today at
NATO, including the President’s meeting with Baltic leaders. So, I’ll
turn it over to him to kick us off on that. \[Senior administration
official\], go ahead.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: Thanks, everybody, for joining the call.
And greetings from NATO headquarters, where I’ve just stepped out of the
session of the leaders here at the summit that is currently ongoing.

President Biden has delivered his remarks a short while ago, and other
leaders are now speaking. On the margins of the NATO Summit, he had the
opportunity to meet with the leaders of the three Baltic countries:
Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania. And he got the chance to discuss with
them and coordinate with them in advance of his meeting with Putin on
Wednesday to talk about the threat that Russia poses to NATO’s eastern
flank, to talk about common commitment to Article 5 and collective
defense, to coordinate on the resilience of those states in the face of
multiple dimensions of the threat posed by Russia — from cyber, to
provocative military exercises on their borders, to information warfare.

He was able to communicate to them what he has communicated publicly,
which is that the United States seeks a stable and constructive
relationship with Russia, but also will respond in the face of Russia’s
harmful activities and will always stand up for NATO Allies.

They also discussed the emerging security challenge posed by China,
including in the domain of technology. And he thanked the three leaders
for the steps that they have taken to support a trusted 5G platform — to
not accept Huawei within their systems.

They also had the opportunity to confer on Belarus and, in particular,
the recent egregious air piracy that occurred with respect to a flight
that was actually bound for Vilnius, Lithuania. And they had the
opportunity to talk more broadly about and an affirmative agenda around
emerging technologies and innovation.

It was a constructive, warm, vigorous engagement between him and the
three leaders, and a real symbol of solidarity and unity with NATO’s
eastern flank.

In that vein, he also had the opportunity to do a brief meeting with the
Presidents of Poland and Romania, who are the co-chairs of the Bucharest
Nine, the same group of eastern flank Allies that he engaged with at
their virtual summit a few weeks ago. He was able to speak with the two
of them about his commitment to (inaudible) security; his commitment,
again, to stand up in the face of the threat posed by Russia; and to let
them know his intentions for the summit in Geneva on Wednesday.

He had a separate encounter — an engagement with President Duda of
Poland, where they got to go a little bit deeper into the questions of
America’s security and military cooperation and engagement with Poland
and the United States’ strong support for the defense of Poland and our
common collective commitment to NATO.

He had the chance to talk to a number of other leaders as well, just
very briefly — from the Prime Minister of Spain to the Prime Minister of
the Netherlands — on a range of different issues — and, of course, to
see his colleagues who have just come with him from Cornwall and the G7
— President Macron, Chancellor Merkel, Prime Minister Draghi, Prime
Minister Johnson.

So, that’s on that. And now, I will now switch to previewing tomorrow
and the U.S.-EU Summit.

MODERATOR: And this preview is embargoed until 7:00 a.m. tomorrow —
again, as a reminder to everyone. Go ahead.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: So, the U.S.-EU Summit is an opportunity
for President Biden to meet with President Ursula von der Leyen and
President Charles Michel to cover a broad-ranging agenda facing the
United States and the European Union, from climate, to health, to
foreign policy challenges, to the global economy.

One of the most significant outcomes of this meeting and a very
important initiative that will serve as a platform for U.S.-EU
cooperation in the years ahead will be the launch of a Trade and
Technology Council.

The notion here is that the United States and Europe laid the foundation
for the world economy after World War Two and now have to work together
to write the rules of the road for the next generation, particularly in
the areas of economics and emerging technologies.

The Trade and Technology Council will cover a number of significant
areas of priority for both the United States and the European Union,
from coordinating on standards for new technologies like artificial
intelligence, quantum computing, biotechnology; to coordinating on
supply chain resilience; to coordinating on import — or investment
screening and export controls; to coordinating on how best to reform the
WTO.

Addressing regulations of technology platforms, competition policy, the
intersection between climate and trade — all of these will also be on
the agenda for a Trade and Technology Council that will be co-chaired by
Secretary Blinken, Secretary Raimondo, and Ambassador Tai.

So this will be a joint undertaking, at the President’s direction, by
the State Department, the Department of Commerce, and the U.S. Trade
Representative.

And the basic cadence of the Trade and Technology Council will be
intensive work in all of these areas, leading to regular leader-level
engagement to ratify outcomes and develop a common strategy and way
forward.

The Trade and Technology Council is fundamentally about setting out an
affirmative vision to the world rooted in our shared values and our
shared economic interests.

Of course, we also have to take account of the fact that China poses a
significant challenge in both of these areas. And dealing with China’s
nonmarket practices, its economic abuses, and, of course, its efforts to
shape the rules of the road on technology for the 21st century will be
important — an important part of the work of this council.

And this fits with President Biden’s fundamental strategy of managing
competition with China by coordinating closely with and developing
common approaches with likeminded democratic partners and allies.

The summit will also cover the steps that the U.S. and the EU can take
together to combat COVID-19 and prepare for the next pandemic. They will
address and reinforce commitments announced at the Leaders Summit on
Climate for how the U.S. and the EU can work together on the climate
crisis.

And, of course, they will discuss a number of significant foreign policy
challenges, including the Iranian nuclear issue, where the EU has played
an important role over the course of the past several years.

The President will also, tomorrow, meet with the King of Belgium and the
Prime Minister, and have the opportunity to speak to them about
advancing all of the priorities in the bilateral relationship between
the U.S. and Belgium.

Let me pause there for the moment, and I’d be happy to answer any of
your questions.

MODERATOR: Thanks again, everyone. Everybody, by now, I’m sure, is quite
familiar: Use this “raise hand” function on Zoom. Raise your hand, and
we’ll try to get through a few questions before \[senior administration
official\] has to run. So again, please use the “raise hand” function.

All right, why don’t we start with Franco Ordoñez with NPR.

Q Hey, sorry about that. I wanted to ask about — two questions, if I
can. One, if you can give an update on discussions about steel and
aluminum tariffs. What’s the status of those? Second question
(inaudible): Do you expect that China will be mentioned in those — the
joint statements, communiqués coming out of NATO and the EU? And how do
you anticipate that will play back in the States in, you know, kind of
making foreign policy work for domestic — you know, foreign policy being
domestic policy for middle America. Thanks.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: I’m sorry. Your first question, I
couldn’t hear what you were asking. It cut out briefly. You were asking
about the status of what?

Q So, I was hoping for an update on the President’s discussions or your
— the administration’s discussions with Allies about steel and aluminum
tariffs.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: Oh, steel and — okay. Okay.

Q What’s the — what’s the status of those —

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: Yeah.

Q — and what progress you made?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: So, as you know, on the 232 tariffs,
there was a determination made by the European Union not to raise
tariffs as they had previously intended to do, to hold on for six months
to provide time for the two sides to work together on the fundamental
issue of overcapacity, and to come up with a common way forward to deal
with what is — what is a challenge from China of dumping, subsidization,
and overcapacity.

And so those negotiations and discussions are ongoing. They’ve been very
constructive. They will take some time. So, I don’t anticipate that
you’ll see an outcome this week on the 232 tariffs, but the direction of
travel is positive, and we — we do believe that there is a way to
resolve this that works for both the United States and the European
Union.

In terms of the communiqués, the NATO communiqué will discuss China —
that’s unusual — but (inaudible) Allies recognize that China represents
a growing and evolving security challenge, as well as an economic and
technology challenge to the Euro-Atlantic. And that will be reflected
and spoken to in the — in the NATO communiqué.

Similarly, in the EU-U.S. Summit statement, China will be addressed, but
I want to let the two leaders — or the three leaders — have the
opportunity to consult and interact before I go further in previewing
the precise outcome on China, although it certainly will be reflected —
the agreement and convergence on issues related to China will be
reflected in the summit outcome there.

And then, finally, on the foreign policy for the middle-class issue: You
know, we took a huge step forward with the agreement on the global
minimum tax, and the EU played a — an important role in getting there.
That is — was one of the President’s biggest priorities in terms of
delivering on foreign policy for the middle class.

And so, he will obviously consult with them on how we take the G7
commitment and bring on board the rest of the world in order to make
that a full reality.

In other areas — from supply chain resilience, to competition policy, to
how we deal with the issue of investment screening and intellectual
property protection, and the nature of WTO reform so that the WTO is
better protecting the rights of workers and middle-class communities in
both the United States in Europe — across all of those dimensions,
foreign policy for the middle class will be front and center in — in his
dialogue with European Union leaders.

MODERATOR: Thanks so much. Next, let’s go to Yamiche Alcindor with PBS.

Q Hi, thanks so much for taking my question. I have a follow-up on the
foreign policy for the middle class. Can you talk about anything else
that — that hasn’t been mentioned that you want to highlight
specifically as it relates to foreign policy and the middle class?

And another question I had was: Could you talk a little bit about how
all of these summits work together? I think there are a lot of Americans
who kind of see these summits and maybe — maybe even get a little
confused about that there’s been G7 and EU. Obviously, there are
different member nations —

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: Yeah.

Q — but I wonder how — you could talk a little bit about how they all
work together.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: Sure. So, the G7 — particularly in the
format that came together in Cornwall, which was the G7+ — the G7 plus
South Africa, India, Australia, and South Korea — reflects the world’s
largest democracies from multiple continents coming together on
strategic and economic issues to set out a vision for how democracies
can deliver against the most significant challenges of our time, namely
COVID-19 and future pandemics, climate change, economic opportunity, and
economic fairness.

And they delivered particular, specific, tangible outcomes in each of
those areas that, you know, that we spent the last three days describing
— from the billion-dose commitment and the plan to end the pandemic, to
the global minimum tax commitment, to the new Build Back Better World
Partnership for infrastructure investment in low- and middle-income
countries, to the collective commitment by the G7 to end overseas
financing of coal by the end of this year.

So, the G7+ is really about the big global challenges and how
democracies from around the world come together to solve them.

NATO is fundamentally about security — the security dimension of the
Euro-Atlantic, the transatlantic partnership. And so, today is about
issues like cyber and Russia and Afghanistan and — and the growing
security challenge that China poses.

The U.S.-EU Summit is fundamentally about two very large economies. I
mean, the European Union economy in — in total is about the size of the
U.S. economy. And the fundamental decisions about that economy are made
by the European Union in Brussels. And so, you got to have coordination
between those two economies on a critical set of foundational issues in
both trade and technology.

That has more of a direct negotiating element to it. The U.S. and the EU
will, in fact, work out particular outcomes on particular issues,
including the steel overcapacity issue I just described, including
aligning export controls, including aligning climate policy.

And so, it has much more of a feeling of a bilateral dimension, even
though the EU is comprised of more than two dozen states.

So, that’s how we think about the three. But they all fit together under
a single banner, and that banner is: key democracies converging around a
strategy for dealing both with great power competition and with solving
the significant transnational challenges of our time.

And they each bring different vectors to doing that. But when you add up
three summits, the whole — we believe — will be greater than the sum of
its parts. It will be the United States rallying the world’s democracies
around a tangible agenda to make real differences in the lives of the
American people in terms of their health, their economic wellbeing,
their physical security, and the planet that we live on.

In terms of other areas, with respect to foreign policy for the middle
class, I’d just say maybe three or four things.

First, we believe that foreign policy for the middle class fundamentally
comes down to the proposition that everything we do in our foreign
policy should ultimately be judged by the metric of whether it is making
life better, safer, and easier for families in the United States.

And against that metric, there’s a range of different priorities the
President has been pursuing on this trip. One of them is to take the
single-biggest impact on the lives and livelihoods of Americans in
recent memory, which is a global pandemic, and say, “What can we put in
place to make sure that does not happen again?”

Another has been to adjust our approach to trade so that we put the
middle class at the center of it, rather than multinational corporations
or making the world safe for corporate investment. And that has to do
with everything from how we deal with currency policy, to tax policy, to
protecting American supply chains in a way that builds manufacturing
capacity and creates jobs in the United States, to protecting our
intellectual property so that industries are not siphoned off and jobs
are not siphoned off elsewhere.

So if you actually look across, particularly the G7 and the U.S.-EU
Summit, you’ll see at the heart of both of those communiqués is the
American middle class.

And we believe that what works for the American middle class also,
frankly, ends up working for middle classes across Europe and around the
world and that this is the most effective and sustainable way to pursue
an international economic policy and a foreign policy more broadly.

I’ll stop there.

MODERATOR: Thanks. It looks like \[senior administration official\]
probably has time for one more question, so why don’t we go to Andrew
Restuccia with the Wall Street Journal?

Q Thanks, \[senior administration official\], for doing this. I was
hoping you could speak to the issue of Afghanistan and whether any of
the NATO members raised concerns with Biden about the withdrawal. And
then separately, I would just ask, broadly, on behalf of the media here,
if we could get these bilats on the schedule or delivered to the press
because we were unaware of several of them today, and also that we could
get some access to them, which has been a pretty tradition — a tradition
of both parties in the past. Thanks.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: Yeah, on the second thing, you know,
this was at the initiative of President Biden today that he wanted the
opportunity to seek out key leaders, particularly on the eastern flank,
to be sure he had the time — the opportunity to spend time with them,
especially given the fact that for the key Western European countries,
he’s just spent three days with them, and he wanted to maximize this
opportunity to talk to the Poles, the Romanians, the (inaudible), et
cetera. So, a lot of this was evolving in real time and there was not an
effort to –- frankly, we would have loved to had — have more press
access to them. But we’ll endeavor always to do better as we go forward.

In terms of Afghanistan, I listened –- I was in the room for the first
hour of the summit and heard many of the significant troop-contributing
countries speak and speak to the issue of Afghanistan. And each of them
said that they ultimately agreed with the decision to come — to draw
down this year. They understood that the time had come.

And the real focus in the room was not on the question of staying or
going in 2021; the real focus was on how we work together as an Alliance
to continue to provide support to the Afghan National Security Forces,
the Afghan government, and the Afghan people.

And there is a considerable amount of practical work being done on that
and strategic alignment on the desire to keep embassy presences, to
maintain the necessary security to do that, and to work together as an
alliance on everything from training — you know, particularly on
over-the-horizon training; to counterterrorism and how we keep
suppressing the terrorist threat in Afghanistan; to the provision of
economic assistance in various forms to government.

So I’ve read some of the stories about this question of support or
nonsupport for the drawdown from Afghanistan, and I’ve got to tell you
that that is not the vibe in the room today. And, you know, it is —
there is an incredible amount of warmth and unity around the entire
agenda, including the “in together, out together” aspect of the
Afghanistan drawdown.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: Thanks so much, again, everybody, for
taking the time and hopping on this call. Really appreciate it.

Again, the contents of this call will be embargoed until 7:00 a.m.
Central European Summer Time, tomorrow, on background, from a senior
administration official.

And we’ll talk to you all, again, more later today and tomorrow. Thank
you.

3:32 P.M. CEST
