---
category: press-briefings
date: '2021-06-10'
modified_time: 2021-06-10 14:23:56-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/06/10/background-press-call-by-senior-administration-officials-previewing-the-presidents-bilateral-meeting-with-the-right-honorable-boris-johnson-prime-minister-of-the-united-kingdom-of-great-britain-and/
published_time: 2021-06-10 12:53:47-04:00
title: "Background Press Call by Senior Administration Officials Previewing the President\u2019\
  s Bilateral Meeting with the Right Honorable Boris Johnson, Prime Minister of the\
  \ United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern\_Ireland"
---
 
12:32 P.M. BST

  
MODERATOR: So, in the interest of time, we’re going to now move on to
the next section of this call.   
  
So I am going to pass it back to \[senior administration official\] to
preview the President’s bilateral meeting with Prime Minister Boris
Johnson and the review of the Atlantic Charter.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Can you hear me?  
  
MODERATOR:  Yes, go ahead.   
  
We can’t hear you if you’re saying anything.  Are you there?  Apologies,
everybody, while we figure out these technical difficulties.  One
moment, please.   
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Sorry, guys.  Sorry, sorry.  I’m here. 
I apologize.  I was — somehow my phone just cut out for a minute, and I
was shouting into the void.   
  
Anyway, on the UK bilateral today, as you all know, the President is
meeting with Prime Minister Boris Johnson this afternoon.  And we think
it makes all the sense in the world for the President’s first trip
overseas to be to the United Kingdom and for his first foreign leader
meeting abroad to be with Prime Minister Johnson because the U.S. and
the UK share a Special Relationship that is the foundational aspect of
U.S. foreign policy.   
  
The historic alliance between our two countries is founded on shared
values and common beliefs and has worked for decades to ensure that the
security and prosperity that we seek to deliver not just for the U.S.
and UK, but for the entire world.  And it has become a truly global
relationship.  
  
So, today, the Prime Minister and the President will talk about every
aspect of that relationship.  There’s the security dimension, with an
unparalleled defense and security alliance promoting stability
worldwide.  There’s an economic dimension — the robust economic
partnership between our countries sees the UK as our largest investment
partner and the fourth-largest trading partner for the United States.  
  
And, of course, the relationship is also about democratic values. 
Together, we — (audio drop).  
  
MODERATOR:  Apologies.  I think we lost \[senior administration
official\] for a second.  Give us one moment.  
  
 Thanks for your patience, everyone, as we’re waiting to get reconnected
with \[senior administration official\].  It should be momentarily.  
  
 I think we have \[senior administration official\] back on the line
now.  If you want to hit “\*6” and unmute yourself, you can dive right
back in.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Can you guys hear me?  
  
MODERATOR:  Yes, go ahead.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I’m so sorry, guys.  The digital
infrastructure here is not agreeing with me.   
  
I was talking about democratic values.  So, let me just shift to the
program.  In terms of the program — you know, start with a greeting and
an official photo.  The two leaders will then review the original
Atlantic Charter, which was signed between President Roosevelt and Prime
Minister Churchill in 1941 — so, 80 years ago this year.  
  
And then, after that, they will have the formal bilateral meeting.  The
key priorities that they’ll focus on in that meeting are, you know,
really, the pressing set of global challenges facing our two countries
and the whole world: COVID-19, climate change, counterterrorism and the
current drawdown in the Afghanistan, the evolving challenges in the
Indo-Pacific and the Middle East, the common threats we face from
Russia, and so on.  
  
The two presidents — the two leaders will also sign a new Atlantic
Charter.  The notion is that it’s been 80 years since the last one; it’s
about time that it gets refreshed.  And the original really outlined
what the post-World War world order could and should look like.  
  
This new charter will make clear what the coming decades of the 21st
century can and should look like from the perspective of common values
and common aspirations for people everywhere.  
  
We will also be putting out a joint statement today with some new
initiatives that we’ll commit to work together on in the areas of
science, technology, energy, and health.  And that will include the
launch of the U.S.-UK Energy Dialogue, led by the Department of Energy;
a commitment to a new U.S.-UK science and technology agreement; a launch
of an expert working group on opening up travel between the U.S. and UK;
and a commitment to hold a U.S.-UK Cancer Summit.  
  
So, you know, we will be releasing this renewed Atlantic Charter and
then releasing the joint statement that includes these core initiatives,
in addition to the time the two leaders will spend on a truly robust
agenda of current events and long-term trends on all the significant
issues that our two countries face.  
  
So, with apologies for the technical difficulties, I’m going to stop
there.  
  
MODERATOR:  Thank you so much.  If anybody has any questions about this
preview of the bilateral meeting, please use the “raise hand” function
on Zoom interface.  
  
All right.  We will go to David Sanger first.  David, please unmute
yourself.  
  
Q    There we go.  Can you hear me now?  
  
SENIOR ADMINSTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yes, go ahead.  
  
Q    Great.  \[Senior administration official\], I wanted to ask you a
little bit about the renewed Atlantic Charter.  So, the initial
document, of course, was signed before the U.S. entered the war in
1941.  But over time, it sort of became a standard bearer of the Cold
War.  Right?  It laid out the ideological differences between the West
and Russia.   
  
And since the President has been talking so much about democracy versus
autocracy, both in a Russia context and a China context, is it your
intent that this serves much the same purpose, or is it a different
purpose, at a moment that, you know, many people are saying, rightly or
wrongly, that we’re headed into a very different kind of, but equally
ideological, struggle?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  It’s a great question, David.  I would
say: The same purpose in one fundamental respect, and a different
purpose in another fundamental respect.  It’s the same purpose insofar
as it is a profound statement of purpose of democracy at a moment when,
as the President has said, democracies are very much in competition for
autocracies, in terms of showing the world who can deliver for
people.   
  
And this is a statement about why these two leaders, and democratic
leaders everywhere, believe that the democratic model is the right and
the just and the best model for governance in the world.  And in that
sense, it echoes and reflects the fundamental animating purpose of the
’41 document.   
  
In terms of different purpose insofar as it is not meant to be Cold War
— a new Cold War charter.  It is not meant to pre-stage a new Cold War. 
It is meant to pre-stage a much more complex global landscape where the
challenges are accelerating and multiplying in ways that involve both
great power competitors and significant transnational threats, like
climate change or COVID-19, that — and also, economic and technological
challenges that exist at the heart of the interconnected global economy
that we have — an interconnected global economy that didn’t exist in
nearly the same way through the years of the Cold War, given that their
economy was divided into these competing blocs.   
  
So that’s part of the reason to do it (inaudible) is — a renewal aspect
to the commitment to these democratic principles in the face of genuine
challenges and authoritarian competition.  And there’s the need to
refresh and update the statement of principles so they actually reflect
the world we’re dealing with today and not simply harkening back to the
world of the Cold War.  And that’s — that’s what this is all about.  
  
MODERATOR:  Great.  Thank you so much.

12:54 P.M. BST

Q    Thanks.  I wanted to ask \[senior administration official\] about
the Johnson meeting just because we only got one question on that.  Can
you talk a little bit about Northern Ireland specifically and what the
President might tell the Prime Minister on that subject?  And I would
love for you to respond to this report in the Times of the UK, as well,
if you could.  Thanks.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  All right, sure.  On Northern Ireland,
the President is going to say to the Prime Minister what he has said
publicly for a long time now, including as recently as St. Patrick’s
Day, which is that he believes that the Good Friday Agreement is the
foundation for peace and reconciliation in Northern Ireland; that a lot
of progress has been made over the 20-plus years since the Good Friday
Agreement came into force and that that progress must be protected; and
that the outcome of the current discussions between the UK and the EU
should ensure the continued vitality of the Good Friday Agreement.

You know, the United States is not in those negotiations and not seeking
to be in those negotiations.  And we are instead a strong and vigorous
supporter of practical, creative, flexible, results-oriented
negotiations that, at the end of the day, produce a result that protects
all of the gains that the people of Northern Ireland — that all
communities in Northern Ireland have made.  And that’s what he’s going
to say.

It will not be confrontational or adversarial or — you know, he didn’t
come here to give a lecture.  He came merely to communicate what he
believes very, very deeply about peace in Northern Ireland, about the
priority the United States places on that, about the priority Joe Biden
places on that.  And that’s the spirit with which he’ll approach the
conversation.

12:55 P.M. BST
