---
category: press-briefings
date: '2021-06-30'
modified_time: 2021-06-30 18:22:55-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/06/30/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-and-administrator-of-the-u-s-environmental-protection-agency-michael-regan-june-30-2021/
published_time: 2021-06-30 18:45:00-04:00
title: Press Briefing by Press Secretary Jen Psaki and Administrator of the U.S. Environmental
  Protection Agency Michael Regan, June 30, 2021
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

1:23 P.M. EDT  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Hi, everyone.  
  
Q    Good afternoon.   
  
Q    Good to see you.    
  
MS. PSAKI:  Good afternoon.  Good to see you, too.  Okay, it is so great
to welcome back our Administrator of the Environmental Protection
Agency, Michael Regan.  He’s here to talk more about the bipartisan
Infrastructure Framework, which includes the largest investments in the
nation’s clean water infrastructure, including funds needed to eliminate
and replace 100 percent of lead water pipes and service lines.  
  
Across the country, pipes and treatment plants are aging, and polluted
drinking water is endangering public health.  Studies show that ki- —
for kids, higher exposure to lead negatively affects academic
performance and can lead to cardiovascular disease later in life.  
  
The investments in water infrastructure in the framework are
unprecedented and also include funding to modernize waste water systems
across the country, including in rural areas and on Tribal lands.  
  
He also just came from the President’s meeting on wildfire preparedness
with western governors as well.   
  
And after that, we’ll do a full briefing.  As always, I’ll be the bad
cop when we’re ready to take questions and he needs to go.  Thank you so
much.   
  
ADMINISTRATOR REGAN:  Thank you, Jen.  Good afternoon.  I just came from
the President’s meeting on wildfires with western governors.  The
increasing intensity of wildfires and heat out West is a major public
health challenge.  President Biden is bringing leadership and resources
— the resources of the federal government to help those on the
frontlines in our western states.   
  
I briefed the President and his team on what EPA is doing to help keep
people safe.  The EPA has developed tools to help provide the public
with reliable information to inform and protect people when wildfire
smoke is causing dangerous air quality issues in their communities.   
  
As part of the administration’s broader efforts to improve wildfire
preparedness, EPA is deploying additional new sensors in heavy-smoke
areas to assess air quality.  We will be adding the Fire and Smoke
<s>app</s> \[Map\] to the AirNow mobile app next month so that
firefighters, families, and people throughout communities in the West
can take action to reduce their exposure.   
  
You can learn more about this resource tracking smoke and air quality at
AirNow.gov/fires and visit Ready.gov/Wildfires to learn about actions
you can take now to prepare for wildfires and stay safe.   
  
You know, this is one powerful example of why we need to do more to
rebuild our infrastructure that wi- — that can withstand the impacts of
climate.  Because as wildfires rage out West, floods are consuming
communities elsewhere.   
  
The extreme weather events Americans are experiencing year-round
underscore the need to make bold investments needed to tackle the
climate crisis.  The bipartisan Infrastructure Framework would make the
largest investment in American history — nearly $50 billion — in the
resilience of the physical and natural systems.  
  
Breathing air and drinking clean water are at the heart of President
Biden’s Build Back Better agenda because he believes no family, no child
should be still drinking water from lead pipes.  Water infrastructure is
a huge part of the President’s American Jobs Plan, and it’s carried
through in the bipartisan Infrastructure Framework, and for very good
reason.  
  
Clean and healthy drinking water, and safe and effective stormwater and
wastewater infrastructure, is necessary for every thriving community. 
Yet, as you see here on the screen, there are still an estimated 6 to 10
million lead service lines that need to be replaced all across the
country.  
  
In the few months since I’ve started this job, I’ve had the chance to
hear directly from communities and visit water infrastructure sites and
programs all around the country.   
  
In St. Louis, Missouri, where there are still an estimated 28,000 lead
service lines, I visited a drinking water plant that is more than 100
years old.  The director there told me that we need to invest in our
water infrastructure before it’s too late.  
  
In Illinois, where there are 400,000 lead service lines just in the
Chicagoland area, I heard from people who are struggling to address the
urgent need for lead pipe replacement.  We know that low-income people
and communities of color are disproportionately at risk when it comes to
lead-contaminated drinking water.    
  
And last week in Baltimore, I had the privilege of meeting with the
young folks who are joined — who joined a job training program that are
now successfully working in water infrastructure jobs.  
  
Getting clean and healthy drinking water to people isn’t a political
issue.  It isn’t a partisan issue.  It’s an American issue.  Access to
clean, safe drinking water is fundamental to protecting all people
regardless of — regardless of ZIP code or how much money they have in
their pockets.   
  
And that’s why the bipartisan Infrastructure Framework makes a
transformational $55 billion investment in our nation’s water
infrastructure, including the funds needed to replace our nation’s lead
pipes.  This will be the largest investment in clean drinking water and
wastewater infrastructure in American history.  
  
By upgrading and repairing our aging infrastructure, it will ensure
people have reliable access to safe and clean drinking water that they
deserve.  Replacing lead service lines will bring long-overdue progress
to overburdened communities that have been disproportionately impacted
by exposure to lead in their drinking water.   
  
And by putting dollars into our communities, it will create good-paying
union jobs and strengthen the future water workforce of our nation.  
  
The bipartisan Infrastructure Framework is a critical first step to
implement President Biden’s vision to build back better, enhance our
climate resilience, and ensure clean air and clean water.  We know that
there is more work to be done, which is why the President will continue
championing his full American Jobs Plan.  
  
President Biden’s leadership on responding to wildfires in the West,
building our nation’s resilience to climate change, and prioritizing
water infrastructure is already bolstering the work for EPA.  And I’m
grateful to the President, I’m grateful to Congress and the American
people for their ongoing bipartisanship support on these very important
issues.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  All right.  (Inaudible.)  Go ahead.   
  
Q    Thanks.  Sir, in the meeting with the governors — on water rights —
was there any discussion of water allocation decisions in the western
states with any of the governors today?  
  
ADMINISTRATOR REGAN:  No.  No discussions there.  Basically, we
discussed that we’re experiencing a very tough wildfire year — upcoming
year.  We talked about staying very closely coordinated.  And the
President talked about providing additional resources for resilient
infrastructure and water management and forest management.  
  
Q    But was there any discussion about rolling blackouts — rolling
blackouts to prevent wildfires?  Was there talk about that?  
  
ADMINISTRATOR REGAN:  No.  
  
Q    Any other concerns that the governors brought up that — you know,
that we need to know about?  
  
ADMINISTRATOR REGAN:  Just that we need to work closely — federal and
state — leveraging resources, and again, staying in close coordination
throughout this fire season — wildfire season.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Courtney, go ahead.  
  
Q    Can you talk about — given you’re talking about extreme weather
events, like what’s happening with the heat wave in the Pacific
Northwest, can you talk about how that factors into your enforcement
strategy at EPA and cracking down on polluters?  
  
ADMINISTRATOR REGAN:  Well, what I can say is that we’re really
laser-focused on these climate change impacts.  And so, therefore, we
really are deploying our air quality monitoring systems to help folks
understand the implications of wildfire pollution.  We really are
ramping up enforcement in this — in this EPA.  We believe that
enforcement is a tool in our toolbox that need to be deployed so that we
can keep everyone on the right track.  
  
Q    Can you talk about also — I know that EPA is hiring up to a
thousand new staff.  Can you give an update on how that’s going and what
areas you’re looking to hire in?  
  
ADMINISTRATOR REGAN:  We’re looking to hire in — really, we had a lot of
people leave the agency during the previous administration.  What we
want to do is continue to build on our scientific integrity, our ability
to capture and push data out, and really develop the sound expertise
amongst all of our professional classes to inform how EPA does its job
and accomplish its mission.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yamiche.  
  
Q    Yeah, thank you for taking my question.  Do you support pursuing
additional funds, beyond the bipartisan plan and the reconciliation
plan, for drinking water in particular?  
  
ADMINISTRATOR REGAN:  You know, I think the President has made it clear
that he’s got ambitious goals laid out in the American Jobs Plan.  This
water infra- — this Infrastructure Framework is what we’re seeing as a
first critical step.  So, he’s got a number of tools in his toolbox, and
we’re happy that he’s going to deploy those tools not only for water
infrastructure, but for climate as well.  
  
Q    And could I ask you a follow-up question about what’s going on in
Florida?  The EPA has said that there are particles that could be toxic
to people’s long-term health, related to the collapse of the building in
Florida.  Is the EPA making any recommendations or suggestions to try to
protect people that are living in the area and, of course, the first
responders who are searching the rubble?  
  
ADMINISTRATOR REGAN:  We’re actively engaged with all of the elected
officials on the ground.  Our regional offices are deploying air
monitoring systems and the latest information to be sure that we keep
the public safe.  
  
Q    Are you confident that — that the people that are searching the
rubble, that they are getting the protection that they need so that they
don’t end up like the first responders in 9/11 who, of course, suffered
all sorts of long-term health issues?  
  
ADMINISTRATOR REGAN:  I’m confident that our agency is partnering with
the sister agencies to provide the latest and best information so that
those on the ground can govern themselves in a very safe way.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Steve.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  Administrator, the last several days here in
Washington, right across the street from this building, there’ve been
protesters who have been holding signs saying things such as, “Biden,
you coward, fight for us.”  What’s your response to that criticism?  And
if you could assess the claim that they’re making, that the President,
on that issue, is a “coward.”  
  
ADMINISTRATOR REGAN:  You know, what I can say is that this is a
historic investment.  This is the largest investment in American history
both on water infrastructure, but we also see some strong movement on
climate in this infrastructure bill as well when we look at the supply
chain for electric vehicles, when we look at charging stations that will
be deployed all across this country.   
  
What I would say: It’s a — it’s a first critical step.  But the
President is holding tight to his vision.  And the President is looking,
again, at all of the suite of options that he has, from a toolbox
perspective, to pursue the goals that he’s laid out.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Peter.  
  
Q    Thank you.  You mentioned that the EPA in D.C. is in touch —
actively involved with — actively engaged with officials in Florida.  Do
you agree with the Energy Secretary, Granholm, that it’s possible the
Surfside condo’s collapse may be a result of climate change?   
  
ADMINISTRATOR REGAN:  You know, I — I don’t know if we have enough
information at this point.  You know, what I’ll say is, EPA — both our
headquarters and our regional offices — are coordinating with the state
of Florida and folks in that region to really understand what’s
happening on the ground and be sure that we’re deploying adequate
resources to keep that — those actions safe for those folks.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Brian.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  There are millions of people across this country who
don’t — are not on the water system; they rely on well water.  So, to
those millions of people, every time you test their wells, they’re
coming up with fecal coliforms, arsenic, antibiotic — antibiotics, and
other heavy metals.  What does this do to address those millions of
rural and suburban people who are not on a water supply line, but rely
on well water?  
  
ADMINISTRATOR REGAN:  You know, at EPA, we have a lot of tools existing
to focus on water quality and water quality protection.   
  
What I would say: Again — and when we look at these infrastructure
bills, they’re doing a really good job not only to help with lead
service pipelines and water infrastructure, you know, only — but when
you look at the American Rescue Plan, you look at the President’s very
ambitious budget for EPA, what we’re doing is we’re bolstering our
ability to collect the data and information we need to keep the public
safe and, where we need to, lean in on our enforcement.  
  
Q    Well, I understand that.  But in response to what Steve was saying,
there are those who are — rural and suburban residents who believe that
the cowardice in the administration comes by not addressing the very
real issue about poisoning well water.  Are you addressing that?  
  
ADMINISTRATOR REGAN:  I think we’re looking at a range of octions
\[sic\] — options to look at water pollution — PFAS.  I think we’ve got
a number of budget requests in that we hope the Congress approves for
EPA to really bolster its actions there.   
  
I think that there are a number of tools in this toolpop \[sic\] —
toolbox that the President is deploying to get at water quality — water
quality protection for all citizens.  
  
Q    So there is money allocated for it?  For it to address that water
well issue — there is money in this?  
  
ADMINISTRATOR REGAN:  There — there’s water — there’s money in the
President’s budget request for EPA to do a better job of looking at
water quality protection for all Americans.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Okay.  We’re going to do Lynn and Josh, and then we’ve got
to let the Administrator go back to fixing our pipes.  
  
Q    Thank you for taking my question.  Noting that you did mention
Chicago, what is the timetable, or the timetable for a timetable of
appointing a much negional \[sic\] — regional administrator for Regional
5?  Democratic Michigan and Illinois members of Congress have been
pushing competing contenders, as I’m sure you know — Deb Shore and Micah
Ragland — for the job.   
  
ADMINISTRATOR REGAN:  Yes.  
  
Q    What’s up?  
  
ADMINISTRATOR REGAN:  We’re on an expedited timeline.  I just spoke to
top candidates this morning and yesterday morning. And so, we’re pushing
those recommendations over ASAP.   
  
Q    So, when you say “top candidates,” are they Micah Ragland and Deb
Shore, or is it someone else?  Just so I know with specificity when we
write this.  
  
ADMINISTRATOR REGAN:  Yes.  I spent time with two top candidates this
morning and yesterday.  And we’re going to push those forward ASAP.   
  
Q    And how fast is “ASAP”?   
  
ADMINISTRATOR REGAN:  Well, that depends on how we work with the White
House to get it done.  So, I don’t have a specific timeline in terms of
how we navigate the personnel process, but we’re pushing as fast as we
can.   
  
Listen, we recognize that we need our regional administrators in place
if we’re going to be successful to expedite and execute on the
President’s very ambitious agenda on climate, on water quality,
environmental justice, and the like.  
So, this is a top priority for us.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Great.  Last one for Josh.  
  
Q    I want to go to the lead service lines.  Could you break down the
timeline for when you think all of these would be replaced?  And then,
secondly, on the issue of cost, how are you looking at cost?  We’re told
that it would cost, on average, $27,000 to replace a lead service line
in Chicago, but the administration seems to be budgeting it around
$4,000 to $6,000.  
  
ADMINISTRATOR REGAN:  You know, our estimates show that with the — the
ask that the President has in this infrastructure plan, that we can
replace 100 percent of the lead pipes.  Obviously, when you look at
timelines, we — that really is city by city, instance by instance.   
  
We are ready to engage with our state partners.  The good news is, EPA
has water infrastructure programs in place.  We have the infrastructure
to push these resources through, to partner with our state and local
officials to get this done on an expedited timeline.   
  
Will it be done overnight?  Absolutely not.  Will it be done as quickly
as possible?  That’s what we’re pledging to do.  
  
Q    So what’s the range between “overnight” and “as quickly as
possible”?   
  
ADMINISTRATOR REGAN:  Well, we haven’t gotten that far yet in terms of
putting an actual timeline on — the quickest city we could do and the
one that would take the longest term.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  But he can come back when we know more.  Thank you so much,
Administrator Reagan.  Appreciate you taking the time today.  
  
ADMINISTRATOR REGAN:  Thank you.   
  
Q    Thank you, Administrator.  
  
ADMINISTRATOR REGAN:  Thank you.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Okay.  Just a few more items for all of you at the top.  As
you all know and noted in — in your questions, the President convened
Cabinet officials, governors from western states, and private sector
partners, this morning, to discuss how we can all work together to
strengthen prevention, preparedness, and response efforts.  
  
In the meeting, the President asked participants what additional
resources they needed and what immediate actions can be taken to protect
communities, improve emergency preparedness, and address the growing
wildfire threat, both by preventing them from happening and ensuring the
federal government’s response is as quick and effective as possible.   
  
And to do that, we also announced a series of actions today to address
the growing and severe threat of wildfires, protect communities from
devastation, and save lives — which were outlined this morning — we can
certainly talk more about.  
  
As you may have also seen, in a few minutes, the President will sign the
Sgt. Ketchum Rural Veterans Mental Health Act, which will create three
new mental health centers for veterans battling severe mental health
issues, including post-traumatic stress disorder.   
  
It’s estimated that at least one in five veterans return from combat
with a significant need for mental health support, yet 85 percent of
veterans coming home to rural communities are in areas with a shortage
of professional support.   
  
As the President had — has repeatedly reaffirmed, we have a sacred
obligation to care for those who served, and this bipartisan bill will
help our rural veterans get the support they need.   
  
Later this afternoon, the President will also sign three additional
bills: one to protect our climate from methane, one to protect consumers
from predatory lenders, and one to protect workers from employment
discrimination.  Each of these bills are commonsense protections that
passed with bipartisan support.  Bipartisanship, alive and well in
Washington.  Watch out.  (Laughter.)  
  
Also today, the White House will host a virtual Eviction Prevention
Summit to support and facilitate coordination among local public
officials, court officials, legal services — legal service
organizations, local bar associations, community-based organizations,
emergency rental assistance administrators, and local philanthropies
from cities across the country to work on developing local eviction
prevention action plans.   
  
This summit is just one of a number of steps we are taking — that we
announced last week, I should say — to keep people in their homes by
protecting renters and helping state and local governments prent \[sic\]
— prevent evictions.  
  
Also, in our ongoing news about getting vaccines out to the world, we
are shipping 2.5 million doses of Johnson & Johnson vaccines to
Colombia, as a part of our continued effort to end the virus
everywhere.   
  
Finally — sorry, I have two more things, and then we’ll go to — get to
questions.  Today, Vice President Kamala Harris led the U.S. delegation
to the Generation Equality Forum in Paris and provided live, virtual
opening remarks.  She restated the United States’ commitment to gender
equality, and she made the case about how gender equality is tied to
democracy.  Following her remarks, we announced several robust
deliverables in three areas: gender-based violence, economic justice,
and sexual and reproductive and health rights.   
  
As one final note, and as a point of privilege, today is the last day of
Pride Month, and I am honored to host a pre-recorded virtual convening
on transgender equality later this evening.  At this convening, young
transgender and gender nonbinary leaders from across the country will
share stories about the impact the state-level anti-transgender
legislation has had on their wellbeing, their experiences of multiple
intersecting forms of discrimination, and best practices for advancing
acceptance.   
  
And the program will feature a range of officials from the federal
government, as well as openly transgender athletes, leaders, and elected
officials.   
  
With that, Josh, go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  Two subject areas.  Russian President Vladimir Putin
says that a U.S. reconnaissance aircraft was operating in sync with a
British destroyer last week in the Black Sea.  Was the U.S. coordinating
with the British ship?  And was this, as Putin claims, a provocation?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have anything to detail or confirm from you here
from the podium.  I’d certainly point you to the Department of Defense
on any specifics.   
  
As the President noted when we attended the summit — when he
participated in the summit just a few weeks ago, our objection — our
objective, I should say, is certainly to move forward a — on a more
predictable and stable relationship with Russia.  We — he announced a
number of forward-looking actions in that regard, and that certainly is
guiding our strategy.   
  
Q    And then, secondly, South Dakota Governor Kristi Noem says she’ll
use a donation from a Republican donor to fund the deployment of up to
50 South Dakota National Guard troops to the U.S. border with Mexico. 
Does the White House have any concern about this as a property use of
and funding mechanism for National Guard troops?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  I would certainly have to check with our team on that,
Josh.  I’m happy to do that after the briefing.   
  
Go ahead, Steve.  
  
Q    Could you walk us through what the President will be doing tomorrow
in Surfside, Florida?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  
  
Q    Will he actually visit the building site?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I know, first, there’s a lot of questions about this,
and as details become finalized and available, we will make them all
available to you.   
  
So let me outline for you what we have at this point, which is pretty
consistent with what I outlined just yesterday.  Just one moment.   
  
So while the President and First Lady — who is joining him on this trip
— are in Florida tomorrow, they will be thanking heroic first
responders, search-and-rescue teams, and everyone who has been working
tirelessly around the clock.  They will also meet with families who have
been forced to endure this terrible tragedy.   
  
In terms of the logistics and the schedule of the day, we’re still
finalizing those details.  Of course, we hope to have them all nailed
down before the end of the day, given this trip is tomorrow.  But,
unfortunately, I don’t have many additional specifics at this point.  
  
Q    So, unclear whether he’ll visit the building, or just not able to
announce it yet?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We’re still working out the final components of the trip
tomorrow.  And as I — I would note — and the President repeated this to
me multiple times yesterday — every component of this is going to be —
needs to be coordinated with officials on the ground.  There is still an
ongoing search and rescue effort on the ground, and we want to ensure
we’re not doing anything to pull away from those resources.  
  
Q    Thank you.  And secondly, on Afghanistan: Are you now days away
from completing the withdrawal?  I’m seeing a number of reports about
this.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Mm-hmm.  Well, I would say that we remain on the timeline
that the President announced just a few weeks ago, which is to get our
troops out of Afghanistan while having a remaining diplomatic presence
on the ground by September.   
  
In terms of the specifics of the — of the operational components of
that, I’d certainly point you to the Department of Defense.  But nothing
has changed on our timeline or objective.  
  
Q    And is the President planning an event around the pull-out?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  There’s not a planned event at this point that I’m aware
of.  
  
Go ahead.  Go ahead.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    If I could follow up very quickly on Afghanistan.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Mm-hmm.  Sure.  
  
Q    I know the timeline remains the same.  Does the U.S. — can the U.S.
commit that all interpreters, drivers, others who helped the U.S. force
during its commitment in Afghanistan will be out by the time of its
departure?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say, Peter, that what our focus is on now is
expediting that processing.  As you know, we announced just last Friday
that we were taking steps to evaluate options for moving individuals to
another location so that they could complete their processing —
individuals who were already in the pipeline.  In terms of the numbers
or what that looks like, those operational components are still being
worked through.   
  
Q    So the potential is that there may still be some in Afghanistan
when the —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We’re —  we’re — no — we’re — we’re working to do that,
which is what I conveyed on Friday.  We’re working to do that on the
timeline in advance of the withdrawal of U.S. troops.  I would also note
though that we will still have a diplomatic presence on the ground. 
That is our continued commitment, and that will continue after
September.  
  
Q    Let me ask you about the comments of Austin Miller; he’s the
General there — the commander in Afghanistan for the United States — who
said yesterday to reporters, “Civil War is certainly a path that can be
visualized if it continues on the trajectory it’s on.”  He said, “That
should be a concern for the world.”  What does the President — what does
this White House say about that concern from its top commander on the
ground on Afghanistan, given they’re already seeing Taliban violence
increase in large swaths of that country?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say, Peter, that when the President met with
the leaders of Afghanistan just last Friday, he reiterated our
commitment to working with them and continuing to support them, whether
it’s security assistance, humanitarian assistance, or other ways that we
can play a constructive role, even as the President is continuing to,
and we’re continuing to, operationalize on the withdrawal of our
troops.   
  
I’d also note that when the President made the announcement about our
decision, it was, in part, based on a timeline that was committed to by
the prior administration of May 1st.  And if we kept our troops in
Afghanistan after May 1st, they would be shot at.  And that was a
decision that, as a Commander in Chief, he had to make.   
  
There have been assessments out there — made by our intelligence
community and others — about the conditions on the ground.  We are going
to continue to work with leaders in Afghanistan, as the President
reaffirmed last Friday, but it’s not changing our plans or our timeline
for removing our troops.  
  
Q    Last question is making headlines across the country right now.  We
just heard from the Pennsylvania Supreme Court that Bill Cosby’s
conviction for sexual assault has been overturned.  They can no longer
pursue those same charges against him in the future.  Right now, the
President, obviously, has a long commitment to violence — the Violence
Against Women Act that he helped write.  The White House’s reaction to
that, first of all?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, as you noted, those reports just came out
shortly before I came out here.  I don’t have a direct response from the
White House to that announcement.  I will say — which you touched on —
on — I’ll just use the opportunity to reiterate that the President has
long been an advocate for fighting against violence against women, for
ensuring that we are raising the voices and the stories of people who
have been survivors of sexual assault.  That’s something he has done
throughout his career and will continue to do.  But I don’t have a
specific comment on that announcement today.  If we do have one after
the briefing, I’ll make that available to all of you.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, Jen.  What does the White House think about
Congresswoman Ilhan Omar saying that she does not regret comparing
Israel to Hamas and the Taliban?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, any attempt to draw an equivalency between the United
States and our close ally, Israel, with a terror group like Hamas or the
Taliban is false and unacceptable.  Representative Omar has said that
was not her intent of her comments, but those certainly are not comments
that we’ve made from here.   
  
Q    And on another subject: You mentioned, at the last briefing, that
you think Republicans wanted to defund the police because they did not
support the American Rescue Plan.  Which Republican ever said that they
did not like the American Rescue Plan because they wanted to defund the
police?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, let me just note that the President ran and won
the most votes of any candidate in history on a platform of boosting
funding for law enforcement after Republicans spent decades trying to
cut the COPS program — there’s record of that; that doesn’t require
anyone having new comments — and then also stood in the way of crucial
funding needed to prevent the laying off of police officers as crimes
increased.  That’s a simple statement of fact.   
  
Q    I understand what you’re saying there; however, there are lots of
examples of Democrats explicitly saying they want to defund the police. 
We’ve got Congresswoman Cori Bush, Congresswoman Ayanna Pressley,
Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, Ilhan Omar.  Are there any examples of
Republican members of Congress saying they want to defund the police?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  I think most people would argue that actions are more
important than words, wouldn’t you say?  
  
Q    Well, to that point — to your point there: At the time of the vote
on the American Rescue Plan, you had the Republican leader in the
Senate, Mitch McConnell, he said he just didn’t like it because he
thought it was a classic example of big-government Democratic overreach
in the name of COVID relief.  And then Kevin McCarthy said he thought
Democrats were using coronavirus as an excuse to justify funding pet
projects.  Where is the —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, here —  
  
Q    — “We’re going to vote against this because we want to defund the
police”?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Again, I think actions speak louder than words, Peter.  So
if you oppose funding for the COPS program — something that was
dramatically cut by the prior administration and many Republicans
supported — and then you vote against a bill that has funding for the
COPS program, we can let other people evaluate what that means.  It
doesn’t require them to speak to it or to shout it out; their actions
speak for themselves.   
  
Go ahead.   
  
Q    Two questions — the first one on infrastructure: In reference to
the bipartisan support here, we just heard from the House Speaker, Nancy
Pelosi.  She’s doubling down on this idea that she’s going to hold on to
one bill until she has the other.  But we’ve also heard from Leader
McConnell, and he says that President Biden’s clarification is just a
hollow gesture unless Democrats like Pelosi agree to changing their
approach.  So does the strategy by the House Speaker risk bipartisan
support for this deal?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say that what leaders in the party have asked
the President to do is to go out there and make the case for how this
bill, how this piece of legislation will help the American people.  He
just did that in Wisconsin yesterday.  He just had his EPA Administrator
come out and do that for all of you.  And we think the American people
are most focused on what this is going to do for them and less on the
process.  It’s up to leaders in Congress to move this forward.  The
President looks forward to signing both pieces of legislation into
law.  
  
Q    But if Republicans are expressing concern, saying they may not vote
for this bipartisan package unless these two are not linked in some sort
of way, is this putting that deal in jeopardy?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Again, I will leave it to you and to leader — to evaluate
and I will leave it to leaders in Congress to determine the sequencing
and the process moving forward.  The President looks forward to signing
each piece of legislation into law.  
  
Q    Can I just ask one quick question —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  
  
Q    — on police reform?  Sources are telling us that they have now hit
a major roadblock in negotiations.  I’m curious if the President has
been briefed on that.  When was the last time that he spoke to the lead
negotiators, including Republican Tim Scott?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We’re in regular touch with the negotiators.  I don’t have a
timeline or specific last call with the President, but senior members of
his team are certainly in close touch.  We’ll let them speak to where
they are in the process and where they are in moving the process
forward.  The President remains eager to sign the police reform bill
into law.   
  
Q    A follow on policing, Jen?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead.  Let me go to April, and then I’ll come back, if
that’s okay.  
  
Go ahead, April.  
  
Q    On police reform:  There is a stumbling block; it’s qualified
immunity.  We’re hearing that mainstream policing organizations are
upset about the financial piece — that it could possibly bankrupt police
officers and police departments.  What does the administration feel
about that — for police to be held accountable and there to be
transparency on this?  And these police agencies are saying no because
of the financial component of it.  What do you say?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I would say, April, that there’s an ongoing discussion and
negotiation between Democrats and Republicans.  We’re not going to weigh
in on that more specifically from here.  The President believes that
it’s important that police reform is long overdue.  There are difficult
components of this discussion; a lot of those are happening in private,
which is the place where they should continue to move forward.  
  
Q    Would the President be okay with police reform — the George Floyd
Justice in Policing Act to be passed without qualified immunity or a
component of qualified immunity?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We’re not going to get ahead of the negotiators who are
representing the interests, having challenging discussions, no doubt,
about how to move this forward.  We’ll take a look at it when they have
the framework and they’re ready to talk about it publicly.  
  
Q    And is there also concern now that Senator Tim Scott has the
support of Senator Lindsey Graham on this policing issue?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Is there concern he has his support?

Q    Yeah.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Again, April, once they are ready to talk —  
once the negotiators are ready to talk about the specifics of the
framework and where they are, I’m sure we can speak to that from here. 
We’re not at that point quite yet.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Are you expecting the framework to come out?  Tim Scott is supposed
to have it today.  Are you expecting today?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We’ll leave it to the negotiators to convey when they’re
ready to talk about it publicly.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    A quick question.  Back to Afghanistan, just real quick.  Following
up on the comments by General Miller: Was anything he said to reporters
in the last day or so new to this White House, or had he conveyed those
concerns to the President?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I’m not going to get into private conversations.  I will say
there have been intelligence assessments that have been out there that
we have not walked away from.  Certainly, we leave that to our
intelligence community to speak to, and that’s an important part of what
is put out from the federal government.  
  
What I’ve conveyed to you and what I’d reiterate is that the President
made a decision because he felt that it was long past time to bring our
troops home, and that there is not a military solution to the war in
Afghanistan.  We need to continue to support a political process, a
political solution — something that our diplomats are continuing to do. 
And, of course, our Department of Defense is continuing to work on the
timeline of bringing our troops home by September.  At the same time, we
are going to continue to be partners to the leaders in Afghanistan and
providing resources and assistance wherever we can.  
  
Q    Did he surprise you?  But did he surprise you?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I’m not going to get into any more details of private
conversations.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    And then this is the end of June, which was supposed to be the
month of action on voting rights, and it ends with an interesting
situation in New York City, as they try to now re-tabulate votes, and
they won’t give us a final result for at least a few more days.  
  
Does this White House, does the administration, more broadly, have any
concern with what’s going on in New York, given the fact that the
President had said earlier this month in a statement that the work ahead
of us is to make voting accessible to all American voters and to make
sure every vote is counted through a free, fair, and transparent
process?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  That continues to be his hope and his commitment and his
desire, but I don’t have any assessment from the White House on the New
York vote-counting reporting, I’ll call it.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Does the President want House Speaker Pelosi to put a Republican on
the January 6 Commission?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  The President believes that Speaker Pelosi is acting in an
appropriate manner as a follow-up to her effort to get a bipartisan
commission passed — something that was blocked, as we know, in the
Senate by Republicans.   
  
And in terms of what the compilation is and what it looks like, he
certainly trusts her — her view on this.   
  
Q    Does he think a Republican could act in good faith on this
commission?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  The President believes, certainly, Republicans can act in
good faith.  He’s worked with them on a range of objectives, but he is
going to, of course, rely on the decision of Speaker Pelosi and how she
wants to see this commission put forward, moving forward.  
  
Q    And on the Bill Cosby conviction being overturned, I know what you
said to Peter, but it’s not because he’s innocent; it’s because of a
decision that a former prosecutor made.  So what message do you think
that that sends to women, you know, in the Me Too era who come forward
with sexual assault allegations and to see something like this happen? 
What is your response to that?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say, Kaitlan, that I just want to be careful
about not speaking to a specific decision by a court.  But I can say,
broadly speaking, as I tried to do earlier, that obviously the President
is somebody who has fought for, advocated for elevating the voices and
stories of women who are survivors of sexual assault, sexual abuse, and
certainly knows that’s a difficult journey for many of them.  And he
believes that these women are courageous, they’re brave, and he wants it
to be an environment — he wants us to live in a country where they —
where women will feel comfortable, moving forward, and telling their
story.  
  
But, again, if there’s a specific comment we have as it relates to this
ruling today, I will provide that to all of you after the briefing.   
  
Go ahead, David.  
  
Q    Two follow-ups on things that you mentioned before.  Earlier you
said that we’re two weeks out from the Putin summit, and you’ll remember
—  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Did I do my time wrong?  
  
Q    You had it just right.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Okay.  
  
Q    And you’ll remember that, at that time, there was discussion of
setting up some conversations pretty quickly —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — on cyber and some other arenas.  Can you tell us whether any of
those happened, whether any of those are planned, so that you don’t lose
momentum from this?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  I know that the President was eager to get those
going as soon as we could.  Many of those will be happening — of course,
all of them will be happening below the presidential level.  Let me talk
with our national security team and see if there’s an update on what’s
underway already and what’s ongoing.  
  
Q    Okay.  And, on Afghanistan, you mentioned the intelligence reports
that were out pretty widely.  One of them suggests — one U.S. report
suggests that, within six months or so, Kabul could easily be overrun,
just given the progress that the Taliban have made.  Were there any
commitments made to President Ghani when he was here, or any contingency
plans discussed about what the United States would do if it did look
like the capital could be overrun?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I would say, David, that the President reiterated what his
announced position has been: that we are planning to withdraw our troops
from Afghanistan on a September timeline, but also reiterated our
commitment to working as a partner and to supporting Afghanistan with
security assistance, humanitarian assistance, and others.  We didn’t get
ahead of that with — with hypotheticals.   
  
Q    You did not get into the specifics of what will happen?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have anything more to read out from the reading —  
  
Q    Follow-up on Afghanistan —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  — from the meeting — well, let me finish — but the
President’s commitment to removing — bringing our troops home from
Afghanistan has not changed.  He reiterated that same commitment in his
meetings on Friday.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  Tomorrow is expected to be the last day of the
current term of this Supreme Court.  Historically, we’ve seen justices
who plan to announce their retirement do so at this time.  Is this White
House making — what, if any, preparations are you all making for the
possibility that Justice Breyer will announce his retirement?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We leave that decision to Justice Breyer to make.  
  
Q    Are you guys watching this at all?  I mean, is this something the
President has thought about as we get toward the end of this term or —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  As you know, the President said on his campaign that he —
and he committed to nominate — if there was an opening, and we do not
know if there’s an opening, and it is up to the justices to decide
whether there will be an opening — to nominate an African American woman
to the Supreme Court, something that would be history-making.  And if
there’s an opportunity, he remains by that commitment.  But we will
leave it to any justice to determine the timeline of their
retirement.   
  
Q    And can I ask a follow-up question on Florida?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Mm-hmm.  
  
Q  Does the President plan to speak with Governor DeSantis when he’s on
the ground in Florida?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure — it’s a good question.  I will — we will have more
details, I expect, later today on the specifics of his visit tomorrow,
where he’ll be going, who he’ll be meeting with, but I don’t have any
specific meetings with elected officials to read out at this point in
time.  
  
Q    Have they been in touch?  Has Governor DeSantis and the President —
have talked about the situation in Surfside in the last few days?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  As you know, they — they had a conversation last — late last
week.  Also, the President spoke with — sent his FEMA Administrator down
on Sunday.  He — the President spoke with his FEMA Administrator to get
an update on that at the conclusion of his visit.  I don’t have any
additional calls to read out for you.   
  
Go ahead.   
  
Q    Let me ask you, Jen, a variation of a question I asked the
Administrator, with respect to the protesters outside —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  
  
Q    — the last few days.  How are those protests being received here? 
Is the President proud of those activists?  Is he shamed by them? 
What’s the view here in the West Wing?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  I would say, first, that we — we respect the right of anyone
to peacefully protest; that’s an American right and a fundamental
right.   
  
I will say that the President believes that what’s in the infrastructure
package is an important down payment on addressing what he sees as a
crisis in our climate — a crisis that is a priority — one of the top
priorities of his presidency.   
  
And I’ve outlined a few of these items before, but, again, it’s
incumbent upon us to continue to talk about it to make sure everybody
who cares as passionately as he does and we do about the climate crisis
understands that, in this package, it has the largest investments in the
nation’s clean water infrastructure, as — as the Administrator noted,
eliminating and replacing 100 percent of lead water pipes; the largest
investment in addressing legacy pollution that harms the public health
of communities and neighborhoods; and billions to reclaim abandoned
mines and cap wells.  The largest investment in public transit —
something that will help reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the
country.  It will modernize the electrical grid with a new Grid
Development Authority and largest investment to date in America’s
electrical grid.  And, of course, it invests in electric vehicles.  
  
I’d also note — and you may have seen a memo we put out yesterday.  If
not, I know we’ve put out a lot of paper in the last few days.  So if
you haven’t, I will highlight a few things in there.  We also — there is
components the President will continue to fight for in the
reconciliation process to continue this effort, including providing tax
cuts for businesses and consumers who invest in clean energy
technologies, sending a market signal that brings additional private
investment off the sidelines and into modernizing our electric grid
through an energy efficiency and clean electricity standard, and
mobilizing the next generation of conservation and resilience
workers.   
  
And I say all that because those are all key components and priorities
that a lot of climate activists talk about, and it’s important that they
understand we’re fighting by — by their side and with them, and we want
to address the climate crisis.  
  
Q    I have a separate question on something entirely different.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yes.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    More than a million people in this country, according to reports,
are living under a conservatorship or guardianship. The most famous case
that’s come to light in the last few weeks is Britney Spears.  
  
Members of Congress, on both sides of the aisle, say that maybe there
ought to be some kind of federal law that governs these relationships. 
Is the White House — does the White House have a view on this in any
way?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I have been watching this case closely, as a point of
privilege.  But I will have to talk to our counsel’s office on that
since you’re asking me a good legal question, but I don’t want to speak
out of turn here.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Has the President been watching Britney Spears’s case? 
(Laughter.)  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  The President has been a bit busy.  But as a person with
young children, I don’t have many places to go — — go ahead — when I’m
not with all of you.  (Laughter.)  
  
Q    Looking back — looking back, is there anything — on vaccinations:
Is there anything the administration wishes it had done earlier in the
vaccination campaign that maybe would have led to more Americans being
vaccinated or to have helped you reach the President’s goal of 70
percent of adults with at least one shot by this weekend?  And what do
you attribute the shortfall to?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, I would note that we are on track to have 70
percent of people in this country vaccinated — 70 percent, I should say,
of adults 27 and older, vaccinated within a couple of weeks.  That’s a
significant achievement, a significant step forward.  
  
We’ve reduced the percentage of people who are getting COVID, who are
dying of COVID by 90 percent.  That’s a huge significant achievement. 
We are actually much farther than I think most people would have
predicted we would be less than six months into an administration.   
  
I will note that where we see challenge — and we’ve seen this as we’ve
gone along — where we see challenge is among young people who are under
the age of 27.  And that is an area where we have — we’re going to
continue to redouble our efforts to ensure that they understand the
risks and the Delta variant — and the risks of the Delta variant that is
not discriminating by age, that we also make sure people understand how
accessible the vaccine is, and that we make sure they know we’re going
to still fight to get them vaccinated.  That’s where we’re going to
redouble our efforts.  
  
So, no, I don’t look back — I don’t think we look back and would
change.  I think we are quite proud of where we are now, and we, though,
are going to keep at it, and there’s still work ahead.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    A couple of questions related to COVID and travel —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  
  
Q    — international travel, in particular.  You mentioned yesterday in
the gaggle that there are these working groups —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — working on resuming travel.  I’m wondering what the holdups are,
what they’re trying to work through, and also whether the White House
believes that these current restrictions are keeping Americans safe.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Well, we wouldn’t be putting them in place if — we
wouldn’t have them in place if we didn’t think they were keeping
Americans safe.  But I will say the working groups — which are already
underway and are led by the White House COVID Response Team and the
National Security Council, with participation from officials from across
the government — they are leading a process that is led by — directed
by, I should say — public health.   
  
There are significant logistical considerations in safety and
effectively reopening travel.  They’re all taken into account.  But they
are continuing to assess — we understand people want to travel.  We want
to travel, too.  And we know people want to come here and people want to
travel to other places; we understand that.  But we put these working
groups in place so that we could work closely and in partnership with
these countries on addressing the public health challenges.  
  
Q    But what is the argument for not letting the vaccinated Europeans
to visit the United States?  What is the argument?  What is the
reason?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Again, we’re in touch with European — we have these working
groups with Canadians, with Europeans, with others to determine the
timeline and pace when we can reopen and do it safely.   
  
Q    I have a couple more questions —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  
  
Q    — on that, though.  A couple months ago, Andy Slavitt — I think it
was — in one of the COVID briefings, said that there would not be any
sort of government COVID passport; however, the U.S. government would
provide guidelines to industry about what vaccine verification would
look like for best practices.  Where are those guidelines?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  They were always meant to be basically an FAQ on the
website.  I don’t know that they were meant to be anything more formal
than that.  I can certainly check and see what’s on our website — or
what information, I should say, we’re providing to businesses who
inquire.  
  
Q    Because I know — I’ve spoken to industry groups who are somewhat
concerned that there isn’t much clarity about vaccine verification — the
travel industry, for instance.  
  
One other question on this.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  
  
Q    Do you expect that there will ever be a scenario where the U.S.
requires vaccination for travelers coming to the U.S. — for instance,
from Europe or India?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  From the federal government or from the airlines?  Or —  
  
Q    Well, from the federal government.  I assume you don’t control the
airlines.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We don’t.  I would say that is not our intention.   
  
Go ahead, Anita.  
  
Q    I just wanted to go back to the infrastructure bill.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  
  
Q    So my colleagues had some reporting earlier today — perhaps some
people saw it — about what is going to be left out of the compromise. 
So, obviously, there were things that didn’t make it in there, that the
White House is not pushing for them to be in the reconciliation bill.  
  
So I guess I’m trying to figure out: Is the President still supportive
of those pieces?  Will he push them?  If not in reconciliation, will he
push them in some other way?  Or are those — should people consider
those items not going anywhere — dead?  
  
It’s perhaps — some Democrats on the Hill might try to put them in the
bill anyway — the reconciliation bill.  So, I’m just trying to
understand what the future is for those projects.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Well, first, as the President said last week and as
you all know from covering bill making, there is a lot of work ahead for
committee chairs and ranking members.  And they’re going to be — they’re
already hard at work with our staff, in many cases, but — writing
legislation, figuring out what’s next and where this goes from here. 
There are going to be disagreements that need to be resolved, even among
Democrats, as that process proceeds.  
  
What the President will continue to advocate for aggressively in the
reconciliation package are key priorities that were left out of the
bipartisan package, including rebates for electric vehicles.  I think
some of the reporting suggested we weren’t doing more for electric
vehicles; that’s incorrect.   
  
Rebates for electric vehicles; clean energy tax credits; and the
components of his American Families Plan, including an extension of the
Child Tax Credit, universal pre-K, ensuring community college is a real
option — those are all components of what the President will
aggressively and ambitiously advocate for.  
  
Now, we know that there’s going to be views from a range of members —
some who are writing the legislation, some who may not feel comfortable
with the size or components of packages.  That’s what’s going to happen
over the next couple of weeks, and we’ll of course be closely engaged in
that.  We’re not going to take things off the table or on the table at
this point in time.  
  
Q    Okay, I just want to make sure I understand because you’re saying
something is not correct, and I want to make sure I understood.  So the
items that didn’t make it into the compromise still could be pushed by
the White House in the reconciliation bill?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think what I just conveyed is: Components of the
American Jobs Plan — including, say, rebates for electric vehicles,
clean energy ta- — the clean energy tax credit — that were not in the
bipartisan deal, the President would still advocate for.  That’s
something he talked about a little bit last week.   
  
Q    Okay.  And just, kind of, one housekeeping thing.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    Two days ago, when we had the last briefing in this briefing room,
I asked about the July 4th event, and you said you would get some
information —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  And I answered it yesterday.   
  
Q    I didn’t see what all the details —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I’m happy to repeat it for you.   
  
Q    Yeah.  I didn’t see that you talked about the COVID precautions.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  So, guidance was sent out to individuals who are
attending that conveyed that they should get tested one to three days
before coming to the White House.  If they’ve been vaccinated,
obviously, according to public health guidance, they don’t need to wear
a mask.  If they have not been vaccinated, they should wear a mask.  And
that’s the guidance that has been provided.   
  
Q    And so — and is it still — it was 1,000 invitations, or is it 1,000
people are expected?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I believe it was 1,000 invitations.  I think most people are
hopefully accepting their invitation to the White House, but I don’t
know that we have a final number for attendees quite yet.   
  
Q    With plus ones?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We can see if there is.  With plus ones.   
  
Okay, thank — let me — let me just do one more because you’ve been so
eagerly awaiting — raising your hand.   
  
Go ahead, right there.  Oh, you’re not eager anymore.  Go — you’re
ready.  We’re ready.  This is the moment.  (Laughs.)  What’s your
question?  
  
Q    So, the question is about the Delta variant —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yes.  
  
Q    — and the July 4th celebrations.  The White House has been
promoting the idea that we should be getting together for barbecues,
local officials should be having events — things like this.  Has the
variant changed any of the White House’s encouragement or plans?  Should
people be more cautious than they would have been otherwise?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, let me repeat something that a number of our
public health officials have been conveying on a number of your networks
throughout the day.  One, we’ve had them out there because we know
there’s been a lot of questions about this and confusion, and we want to
be as clear as possible.   
  
We know that our vaccines that have been approved in the United States
are effective in protecting Americans from the Delta variant.  It’s
important for people to understand that.  So if you have been
vaccinated, the message we’re conveying is: You’re safe.  These eve- —
these vaccines are effective, and that is something we want to be very
clear with the public about.  
  
Certainly, it’s up to individuals.  If you are not yet vaccinated, you
are not safe and protected.  That’s why you should go get vaccinated. 
It’s not more complicated than that in some regards.  But it’s important
to note that the vaccines that have been approved here, our public
health officials have been out there conveying that they’re safe and
effective.  We certainly feel comfortable and confident in moving
forward with our event here at the White House and in individuals having
barbecues in their backyards this weekend to celebrate the Fourth of
July and America’s birthday.  
  
Thanks so much, everyone.  Have a great day.  
  
2:11 P.M. EDT
