---
tags: press-briefings
date: '2021-06-02'
modified_time: 2021-06-02 17:01:32-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/06/02/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-june-2-2021/
published_time: 2021-06-02 17:01:31-04:00
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Jen\_Psaki, June 2,\_2021"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

12:27 P.M. EDT  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Hi, everyone.  Happy Wednesday.  Don’t be distracted by
Andrew’s fabulous seersucker suit over here.  (Laughter.)  
  
Okay, a couple of items for all of you at the top.  The President is
running a little bit late too, so we’ll have a hard out at about five or
ten after, but we’ll keep you honest, for those of you who are joining
his event.  
  
Today, the Biden-Harris administration launched the Low-Income Household
Water Assistance Program, a first-of-its-kind water assistance program
that will expand access to more affordable water, and help low-income
households affected by the COVID-19 pandemic pay their water and
wastewater bills, avoid shutoffs, and support household water system
reconnections related to non-payment.  $166.6 million, or 15 percent of
allocated program funding, is being made immediately available to
grantees, which will then, of course, be distributed in communities.  
  
In total, $1.1 billion will be available through grants, including $500
million in American Rescue Plan funding.  
  
The President believes that having access to affordable, clean, and safe
drinking water is essential to everybody’s health and wellbeing.   
  
A little preview of the President’s remarks for later this afternoon: We
have now vaccinated 63 percent of<s> the country</s> \[adults\], and
over 72 percent of those 40 and older are vaccinated thanks to
aggressive action by this administration.  COVID-19 cases and deaths
have plummeted as a result.  Cases are down over 90 percent.  Deaths are
down over 85 percent since January 20th.  The fact remains: If you are
not vaccinated, you are at risk of getting the virus or spreading it to
someone else.  
  
So, today, the President will announce the launch of a month of action
to mobilize an all-of-America sprint to get more people vaccinated by
July 4th.  Community leaders, faith partners, businesses, celebrities,
athletes, colleges, and thousands of volunteers will participate in this
nationwide campaign.   
  
And as part of the month of action, we’re making it even easier to get
vaccinated, which, as we’ve seen, is the key to increasing numbers and
getting more shots in arms.   
  
So the nation’s largest childcare providers will watching — will be
watching kids for free while parents get the shot.  Vaccines will happen
at barber shops, baseball games, and NASCAR races.  Pharmacies will be
open 24 hours on Fridays.  
  
And throughout our time in office, we’ve seen — we’ve led a
whole-of-government effort to get the vaccine out.  So this next month,
we’re continuing to build on that by leading canvassing, phone banking,
texting into areas with low vaccination rates; coordinating vaccine
events.  More than 100 organizations have committed to hosting over a
thousand events the first weekend alone.  And we’re also launching a
National Vaccination Tour.  The Vice President will lead a tour to key
communities across the South and Midwest.  That will be coming up.   
  
And we’re launching a Mayors Challenge — and you’ve seen a little bit of
activity about this already — where cities compete to boost vaccination
rates through canvassing, local partnerships, and incentives for
people.   
  
And through the COVID-19 College Challenge, more than 230 colleges and
universities are taking pledge — taking pledge and commit — taking a
pledge and committing to taking action to get their students and
communities vaccinated.  
  
And finally, businesses like Anheuser-Busch, Kroger, and DoorDash are
stepping up to offer all adults free beer on July 4th, the chance to win
a million dollars, and free meals for people who get vaccinated at
community health centers.   
  
We’ve seen Krispy Kreme has done this.  I would not recommend a Krispy
Kreme with a beer, but I’ll leave that to other people to decide.   
  
Finally, the President wants to convey his heartfelt congratulations to
Congresswoman-elect Melanie Stansbury on her decisive victory last
night, marking the first time in over 100 years that a special election
has been won by a larger margin than their party received in the
previous general election.  He looks forward to working with her in
Congress.    
  
Alex, why don’t you kick us off.   
  
Q    Sure.  I have a couple of questions.  First, on JBS, can you
confirm that a ransom demand came from REvil?  I know it’s a criminal
organization likely based in Russia.  And was the ransom paid?   
  
And then, can you speak a little bit about — have you seen any progress
on this call from the government for business and private sector to work
with the federal government in updating their cybersecurity measures?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  On the last part, I’m not in a place to confirm the
specifics of the ransom request or the origin.  Obviously, our team is
continuing to evaluate.  And I would send you to the company for any
specific questions about the ransom request.   
  
I will say that this attack is a reminder about the importance to
private sector entities of hardening their cybersecurity and ensuring
that they take the necessary steps to prepare for this threat, which
we’ve seen rising even over the last few weeks.  
  
As it relates to actions we’re taking in the federal government, the
President has launched a rapid strategic review to address the increased
threat of ransomware, to include four major lines of effort:  
  
Disruption of ransomware infrastructure and actors.  Working closely
with the private sector — we will work in partnership with them.  That
is something that this administration has done a bit differently than in
the past in working to find best practices, ensuring that private sector
entities have a seat at the table, and we can work in close
coordination.  
  
Building an international coalition to hold countries who harbor ransom
actors accountable.  I mean, this attack is an example of how this is
not just a problem in the United States.  These are actors that are
working to get into systems around the world.  This was a company
obviously based in Brazil, but Australia was a major — was impacted also
by this.   
  
Expanding cryptocurrency analysis — obviously, this has been an
increasing question out there — to find and pursue criminal
transactions.  
  
And reviewing our own ransomware policies.   
  
So this is an internal policy process — essentially, one that’s looking
at all of these entities within our national security/economic team.  
  
Q    And then, on the President’s comments yesterday, he seemed to call
out Manchin and Sinema for — he said, voting “more with…Republicans”
than Democrats.  But ProPublica actually found that they’ve so far voted
with Biden 100 percent of time on major votes.  And so can you explain
where those comments came from and why he felt the need to call out
members of his own party?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say, first, that if Senator Manchin and
Senator Sinema were standing with me here today — they’re always welcome
— they would call out their own independent streaks, and that’s
something that I think they’re both proud of.  They both vote for and
represent the people in the states that — and all the people who elected
them to represent them in the Senate.   
  
If you look at what the Senate — the President said — the big tell here
is, “I hear all the folks on TV saying.”  Now, as a former TV pundit
myself, I can tell you that sometimes these conversations can be
oversimplified.  TV isn’t always made for complex conversations about
policymaking.  We all know that.  Right?   
  
And what the President was simply conveying is that he — his threshold,
his litmus test is not to see eye to eye on every single detail of every
issue — and he doesn’t with Senator Sinema and Senator Manchin, and he
doesn’t with Senator Capito, who’s coming here later this afternoon.  He
believes there’s an opportunity to work together, to make progress, to
find areas of common ground even if you have areas of disagreement.   
  
And he also believes that sometimes, because there are three entities —
three branches of government — something he knows well, having served 36
years in the Senate — that sometimes it’s not a straight line to victory
or success; that sometimes, you know, it takes more time and, you know,
he is open to many paths forward.  
  
So I don’t think he was intending to convey other — anything other than
a little bit of commentary on TV punditry.  
  
Q    Well, he did seem to suggest that he is in favor of filibuster
reform and wants to see that move.  So why hasn’t he been more prominent
in calling for that?  And is he pressuring Manchin and Sinema to move on
that issue privately?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I wouldn’t say that his comments yesterday were conveying a
new position on his view on the filibuster.  His full comment was —  
  
Q    But what did he mean by saying that Manchin and Sinema are standing
in the way of his agenda, essentially?  What was he referencing?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  That’s not exactly what he said.  I think it’s important to
quote him directly.  What he said was: I hear all the folks on TV
saying, “Why doesn’t Biden get this done?”  Well, because Biden only has
a majority of, effectively, four votes in the House and a tie in the
Senate, with two members of the Senate who vote more with my Republican
friends.   
  
He’s not — he was not giving a specific commentary on a policy.  He was
conveying, again, that sometimes that’s the summary — shorthand version
that he sees on cable news at times.  Again, it’s not always the forum
that’s easy to provide guidance on how a bill becomes a law.  
  
His view on the filibuster continues to be that there should be a path
forward for Democrats and Republicans to make voting easier, to move
forward on progress for the American people.  That position hasn’t
changed.  And he was not intending to convey something different.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you.  Back on the ransomware attack, is the U.S. going to
retaliate?  And, realistically, what options are on the table?  Is a
counterattack an option?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Well, one, let me say — not to get ahead of your line
of questioning, but I assume this will be a question.  So we do expect
this to be one of the issues that the President will discuss with
President Putin at the summit.  That will be two weeks from today, if my
— if my calendar is correct in my mind.   
  
And in terms of considerations of — you know, we’re not taking any
options off the table, in terms of how we may respond.  But, of course,
there’s an internal policy review process to consider that.  We’re in
direct touch with the Russians, as well, to convey our concerns about
these reports.   
  
Q    You mentioned the meeting.  When it comes to this issue, what does
success look like at that discussion?  I mean, what are you looking to
accomplish when the President walks away from that table, when it comes
to cybersecurity?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, let me say that, you know, this is an issue
that we have discussed with the Russian government — this specific issue
— and we’ve discussed it in the past, and delivered the message that
responsible states do not harbor ransomware criminals.  
  
As we’ve also noted from here, and I noted in the beginning: Obviously,
ransomware attacks — we’ve seen them increase over a period of time. 
It’s an increasing threat to the private sector and to our critical
infrastructure.  And there are other countries, many of whom we will see
when the President is in Europe, who have similar concerns.  So we
expect this to be an issue of discussion throughout the President’s
trip, I will say.  
  
In terms of what success looks like coming out of the summit, I can’t
predict that at this point in time.  But I can convey to you that this
will certainly be a topic of discussion — that harboring criminal
entities that are intending to do harm, that are doing harm to the
critical infrastructure in the United States is not acceptable.  We’re
not going to stand by that; we will raise that, and we are not going to
take options off the table.  
  
Q    And in those conversations with the Russian government so far, do
you get a sense that they are taking this seriously?  Are they going to
be taking steps to try and stop these bad actors?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I am — as I’ve said before, I’m blissfully not a
spokesperson for the Kremlin, so I will let them speak for themselves. 
But I can assure you that we are raising this through the highest levels
of the U.S. government.  It will be a topic of discussion in direct,
one-on-one discussions — or direct discussions with President Putin and
President Biden happening in just a couple of weeks.   
  
And certainly, protecting our own infrastructure in the United States is
of the utmost national security importance.   
  
Q    And just one more on this topic, because the Russians are outlining
some of the things they would also like to discuss during the summit. 
The foreign minister, Lavrov, indicated that Russia wants to be
discussing the human rights violations in the U.S., saying they’re
following with interest the persecution of those persons who are accused
of the riots on January 6 this year.  I’m wondering what you make of
that.  Where do you think this is coming from?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, we don’t use the Russian government as our guide to
human rights models in the world.  But I will say that the President has
not held back in his view that the attacks on January 6th were a mark on
democracy, were a dark day in our own democracy.  And certainly, I’m
sure he’d be happy to repeat that.  
  
But the President’s view is that there are a range of topics that we
should be discussing in this meeting.  We’ll have more to preview for
it, probably in the days in advance of this summit, including on — his
agenda is, of course, these cyberattacks and the use of ransomware,
harboring criminal entities in your own country; also is their
aggressive actions in Ukraine; and also is — are areas where there can
be an opportunity to work together, including nuclear capabilities and
security.  So, lots to discuss.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Just to put a fine point on this very quickly: Is it President
Biden’s view that President Putin can stop these attacks, these hacks,
from occurring if he wanted to?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say the President — President Biden certainly
thinks that President Putin and the Russian government has a role to
play in stopping and preventing these attacks; hence, it’s a — it will
be a topic of discussion when they meet in two weeks.   
  
Q    Does the President believe that Vladimir Putin is testing him right
now, ahead of the summit?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I’m not going to give any further analysis on that other
than to tell you that our view is that when there are criminal entities
within a country, they certainly have a responsibility, and it is a role
that the government can play.  And, again, that will be a discussion at
the summit.  
  
Q    Of all the threats that the White House has to juggle right now —
and, of course, there are a lot — how high does ransomware fall on that
list right now?  Has it gone dramatically higher in the course of this
administration?  Does it need to be higher than it is right now?  Where
is it?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  You know how I love rank ordering our focuses and our
threats.  (Laughs.)  
  
Q    How — but it’s been growing dramatically, obviously.  Right?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  That is true.  And I —  
  
Q    This is now a bigger issue.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  And, Peter, I just said that.  I think that this is — this
attack that we’ve seen over the last couple of days, and certainly
following the attack that we saw several weeks ago, is also a reminder
to the private sector about the need and the importance of hardening
their own cybersecurity protections, of investing in and putting in
place protections in their own systems.   
  
We have given guidance for some time, from the federal government, and
it is up to a number of these private sector entities to protect
themselves as well.  
  
Q    The Steamship Authority in Massachusetts reports that they were
just the victims of a hack.  Has that been communicated to the White
House?  Are you involved?  Do you have any comment or message, or
anybody to attribute that to?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I have seen those reports.  They — they just came out.   
  
Q    They just reported it.  Yeah.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yes, exactly.  I just don’t have anything more for you on
it, but we can see if there’s more later this afternoon.  
  
Q    All good.  Last one, if I can, then.  In March, we heard from the
National Security Advisor, Jake Sullivan.  He came in here and told us
that the U.S., “in the near future” — to his words — would name who’s
responsible for the hack on the Microsoft Exchange.   
  
So can you tell us who that is — multiple — several months have passed —
and what the holdup might be?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  I’m happy to check with our national security team and see
if they have an update.  As you know, they are quite careful and
thorough — I should say, “thorough” is probably the right word — in how
they review and assess and provide public guidance.  But we can see if
there’s anything more they can report out.  
  
Q    Is the prevailing theory still that it’s China?  Or are you — can
you not go any further than he did then?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t think I have an update on it from what we’ve
provided in the past.   
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead.   
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  Why does the White House think there’s a shortage of
workers right now?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, we’ve talked about this a bit in the past, but I’m
happy to go through it.   
  
So, one, our view is that it’s going to take time for workers to regain
confidence in the safety of the workplace; reestablish childcare,
school, and commuting arrangements; and finish getting vaccinated.  And
even when individuals get their first dose — we’ve seen a huge increase
in that, as I started the briefing talking about — it’s about a five- to
six-week cycle.  So we have expected that to have an impact.  
  
At the same time, as we look at all of the data, we know that our
economy is growing faster than at any time — than any time in the last
40 years.  We’re creating an average of 500,000 jobs a month, up from
60,000 a month before the President took office.  And we’re continuing
to put in place policies and measures to ensure that we’re helping
people make ends meet and we’re helping the economy continue to grow.   
  
Q    And you mentioned thoughts about safety.  You’re celebrating the
number of vaccinations today.  You say the vaccines work.  COVID cases
are way down.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  You’re right.  
  
Q    Is there any thought here that some of the worker shortage could be
driven by the extra $300 in weekly unemployment benefits through
September?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  I will say, Peter, that our economists and our assessment
and the assessment of many economists out there is that the impact — the
largest impact are on issues related to the pandemic.   
  
And, yes, you’re right that the increased numbers — that’s a good sign;
it’s a positive sign.  But it’s a five- to six-week cycle.  So the data
that was taken for the May jobs number — the jobs numbers that came out
for April and early May was from early April.  That’s almost two months
ago, right?  We’ll see.  We’ll have jobs numbers come out on Friday.  
  
People — the vaccination rates are continuing to go up.  But in terms of
people being fully safe, fully vaccinated, it’s going to take some
time.  We always expected that to be a couple of months, and we expect
to see continuing improvement in the numbers.  
  
Q    On the JBS hack, these hackers based in Russia have disrupted
American gas supplies and American meat supplies.  Why do you think that
these ransomware attacks have been rising since President Biden took
office?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, I would say these are private sector entities
who have a responsibility to put in place measures to protect their own
cybersecurity.  
  
As it relates to why criminal actors are taking actions against private
sector entities, I don’t think I’m the right one to speak to that.  
  
Q    So, a total coincidence?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I think you could certainly go track down those cyber
criminals in Russia and have a good chat with them.   
  
Q    Okay.  If you have any leads, we’ll take that.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Okay.  
  
Q    And then, on immigration, has the President or the Vice President
seen the video from last Friday of a five-year- old boy dropped off
along the border, yelling to the adults who abandoned him, “No, no,
don’t go — no”?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I’ve seen the video.  It is heartbreaking and the
reason we continue to be very clear: Irregularly migrating to the United
States puts ourselves and others at risk.  That’s why we relate —
relaunched certain efforts to build a more fair and orderly immigration
system, including programs like the Central American Minors Program that
allows kids who are eligible to apply from within country.   
  
But I don’t think anyone, whether a parent or not, would have watched
that video and not feel heartbroken by a five-year- old, I think,
screaming at the border.  
  
Q    Thanks.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead.   
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  A couple of questions about the COVID numbers.  You
talked about the latest vaccination rates.  Does the Biden
administration still consider herd immunity to be realistic and
achievable?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say, first, that Dr. Fauci has spoken to this
in the kind of terminology of herd immunity and, kind of, refuted that
as the right definition of how we should look to how we’re going to make
progress.  And that’s why we have set out a goal of getting 70 percent
of the American population vaccinated by July 4th.  There’s still a lot
of work to do.  About a dozen states have met that requirement.  That’s
why we’re launching this big initiative over the past — over the next
month.  
  
But what Dr. Fauci and other medical experts have conveyed is that it’s
really going to be up to local communities and states to see what their
vaccination rate is and make determinations about what’s going to work
locally.  It’s — that is how the assessments will need to be made.   
  
Q    And you talked about the 90 percent drop in cases.  Does the White
House worry that as the number of cases drops, that these holdouts will
actually be more reluctant to get vaccinated because they won’t be as
worried that they themselves will get sick?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, that’s one of the reasons why continuing to
reiterate that if you’re not vaccinated, you are not safe.  You’re not
safe against others who are not vaccinated who may carry the virus.  The
individuals who can benefit from all of the new guidance the CDC has put
out, who can go to concerts and go to baseball games — I was going to
say football; not quite there yet — go to their kids’ soccer games and
not wear a mask, those are vaccinated individuals.   
  
There’s huge incentives to getting vaccinated, but it doesn’t mean that
individuals who are not vaccinated are safe from getting the virus.  
  
And while, yes, we’ve made a lot of progress, there are still
communities where the percentage is higher than it should be, where
there are still larger numbers of young adults who are not vaccinated;
those are many of the communities that we’re focused on in our
month-long effort.  
  
Q    In the President’s speech yesterday, when he laid out his new
economic equity measures, one of the things he didn’t talk about was
student loan forgiveness, and that’s something he talked about a lot on
the campaign trail.   
  
We know that student debt is a big driver in racial — in economic
inequality.  So why didn’t he include that?  And where — where does the
White House want to go on that issue?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, I would say that one of the ways anyone can
know out there about how much the President cares about student debt and
student loans is by simply looking at his budget and the budget he
proposed and rolled out last Friday.  He makes two years of community
college free, along with a major increase in Pell grants that will
drastically reduce the cost of an education beyond high school.   
  
The American Families Plan, which he proposed, we still need to get it,
of course, signed into law — or passed and signed into law, which is
included also in the President’s budget.  It includes a historic $47
billion of investments in HBCUs, Tribal colleges and universities, and
minority-serving institutions.  And these institutions are critical to
helping underrepresented students move to the top of the income
ladder.   
  
And so President Biden is calling for a historic investment in these
areas, and those are things that are laid out specifically in his budget
and shows his desire and commitment to level the playing field and
provide necessary assistance.  
  
Q    But why doesn’t the budget include $10,000 in student loan debt
forgiveness, for example?  That’s something that he called on Congress
to do when he was a candidate.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  And he’d be happy to sign a bill into law if they passed
that bill, and he’d look forward to having it on his desk.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, Jen.  Just a couple of follow-ups on JBS.  Obviously,
the White House is engaging directly with Russia on this, and we were
wondering if Russia has offered any cooperation or help in tracking down
these hackers.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  I’m just not going to be reading out Russia’s view or their
role here.  You can certainly ask them those questions.   
  
Q    And considering — this is obviously the third Russia-linked attack
this year, and we understand that the President will bring this up in
his meeting with President Putin — but is the administration really
considering any actions in addition to that, just to make sure that this
doesn’t happen?  Sanctions or any other actions that are perhaps on the
table?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  I mean, as I said, I think, in response to an earlier
question: We’re not taking options off of the table.   
  
But it’s just an opportunity — there will be an opportunity for the
President to discuss this directly with President Putin, to reiterate
the fact that we believe that responsible states do not harbor
ransomware criminals and that — and as he said, as we said, around
Colonial and the Colonial hack — or the Colonial ransomware attack — we
will continue to be in direct touch with Moscow.  We will continue to
make the case that responsible countries need to take decisive action
against ransomware networks.  
  
At the same time, as I noted a little bit earlier too, we’re doing our
own review of a range of options as well from here.   
  
Q    And I have one on the surplus vaccines.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.   
  
Q    Has there been any decision made on those 80 million vaccines?  And
will the President offer any updates on that today?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  He won’t offer any updates on that today. Hopefully, we’ll
have more for you on that soon.  I know there’s a lot of interest.  And
as I’ve noted earlier — or previously — what we want to do is not just
convey, hopefully, some of — where some of the vaccine may be going, but
also what our approach will be to ensure that it is distributed in an
equitable manner around the world.  So all of that would be a part of
any announcement at the appropriate time.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  During the campaign, Biden promised to host a summit
for democracy during the first year of his presidency.  Can you give us
an update on if that’s taking place, when it might take place?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have any date or schedule for you.  We have some
time left in the year, fortunately, but I don’t have any update for you
on the timing.  
  
Q    Is he still planning to do it in his first year?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  That — that still remains the plan.   
  
Q    Okay.  And then can you say anything more about the specific
mandate that the President gave to the Vice President on voting —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  
  
Q    — that he mentioned yesterday?  I mean, is there — how is he going
to measure success on that?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, let me say that the President sees the Vice
President as an important partner and somebody who can work to take on
challenging and hard initiatives.  That’s the role of the modern-day
Vice President.  And she actually asked to run point and lead on voting
rights.  It’s an issue that she is personally committed to and
passionate about.  
  
As she conveyed in her statement yesterday, she expects in the week —
weeks ahead to engage not just with the American people, but with voting
rights organizations, community organizations, the private sector to
help strengthen and uplift — uplift efforts on voting rights
nationwide.  That includes working with members of Congress, certainly,
to move legislation forward — something the President strongly
supports.  It also includes working with local organizations, working
with states to see how to make voting more accessible to people across
the country.   
  
So, I think the President is looking to work with the Vice President as
a partner and e- — and looking forward to her taking on this important
initiative, something that’s a priority to him as well.  And I’m sure
he’ll be regularly updated on her progress.  
  
Q    Does he expect the Vice President to travel to these states that
have imposed voting restrictions in their state laws?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I think the Vice President will have more to say about what
— how she will approach this effort.  As you know, she’s traveling to
the Northern Triangle over the next couple of days on one of the other
initiatives she’s leading, but I expect she’ll have more to say in the
coming weeks.  
  
Q    And just briefly, how does he expect the Vice President to
prioritize these multiple things that she has in her — in her agenda?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say, just as the President has to balance a
number of different priorities — whether it’s the American Jobs Plan or
working to protect us from ransomware attacks or preparing for an
international summit and all of the other entities that are on the
President’s plate — a modern-day Vice President does the same thing.  
  
So he’s confident in her ability to take on a robust agenda, which she
certainly has on her plate.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Yeah, thanks, Jen.  I’m curious if you can kind of describe —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I’ll come to you next.   
  
Sorry, go ahead.  
  
Q    I’m sorry.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  It’s okay.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    No, go ahead.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Oh, so chivalrous there.  Go ahead.  Okay.  
  
Q    Okay.  
  
Q    I’m just curious — (laughter).  See how I did that?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sorry, we’ll come back to you.  
  
Q    If you can describe for us: How thin is the President’s patience
when it comes to negotiating some of these bipartisan agreements he
wants to see — not just with infrastructure today, but, for example,
whether it’s police reform or the Jobs Plan — at some point, does he say
to his fellow Democrats, “We just have to go at it alone”?  And then
does that mean we’re going to see more executive orders as a result?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, I would say that the President has a bit of
experience legislating, and his approach is to look for means, ways we
can find common ground.  That’s exactly what he’s going to do when he
meets with Senator Capito this afternoon.   
  
“Negotiations” mean both sides continue to make moves toward each other,
both sides continue to look for areas where they agree.  And that’s what
he’s prepared to do, and he’s hopeful this meeting is an opportunity to
do.  
  
At the same time, we’re working on a number of different paths.  There’s
discussions between bipartisan members in the Senate about how they
might come to agreement on a path forward on a historic investment in
infrastructure, on a version of the American Jobs Plan.  He’s eager to
see what they have to offer.  
  
We also know, next week, Congressman DeFazio is going to be marking up
the American Jobs Plan in the House — something a lot of members and
Democrats in the House are quite excited about.   
  
So, I would say that we’re working on many channels.  He’s going to have
discussions with all of these entities and parties.  And he knows that
sometimes in this journey and this path, you have to keep a range of
options on the table.  
  
Q    And his level of patience?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I would say he wouldn’t have been in the Senate for 36 years
if he wasn’t quite patient.  So — but, you know, him — patience is not
unending, and he wants to make progress. His only line in the sand is
inaction.  He wants to sign a bill into law this summer.   
  
But I would also remind you that the American Rescue Plan passed in a
very quick timeline for how legislation moves forward — very fast.   
  
And there’s historic legislation — the Affordable Care Act, for example,
the Vi- — the President worked closely on — that took a year.  We’re not
advising that’s the timeline, but just to suggest that sometimes these
efforts can take a little bit of time.   
  
He’s working to move things forward.  And there are certainly items on —
you know, the clock is certainly ticking because there are items like
the markup next week that will drive discussion by members of
Congress.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    So the President has talked a lot about seeing democracy as under
attack.  And his speech Monday, I think —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — was pretty blunt about that.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Mm-hmm.  
  
Q    He talked a lot about voting rights in that speech.  Can you just
clarify how he sees the stakes of these bills, like in Texas?  Does he
truly see them as an existential threat to democracy?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say that, first, he believes that the Texas
legislation is a part of a concerted attack on our democracy being
advanced, as we see — have seen, not just in Texas, as you well know,
but in states across the country, on the basis of the same repeatedly
disproven lies that led to the assault on our nation’s Capitol on
January 6th.  
  
So, that is, of course, of great concern to the President.  He thinks
that must stop.  It must be easier, not harder, for all eligible voters
to vote — to register and cast their ballots.  We need to move forward
and not backward.   
  
And the fact of the matter is that the Texas legislation would make it
harder to vote in a state where it is already too hard for many people
to vote, but it’s not the only state where we’re seeing this troubling
trend.  
  
But this is one of the reasons why he asked his Vice — or he — she asked
for it, but he certainly was thrilled to have her leading the effort on
voting rights moving forward, given this is a huge priority to him and a
huge priority to her as well.   
  
Q    A question on a much different scope.  I have a follow-up on the
free beer announcement.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  (Laughs.)  
  
Q    Can you just clarify, because Anheuser-Busch says this is in
partnership with the White House.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Mm-hmm.  
  
Q    Can you clarify what that means?  Is like the federal government
subsidizing this at all?  And also, are there any concerns that this is
kind of — the way that they’re going about this — with like, “Upload a
picture of yourself” — that there’s any sort of data-harvesting aspect
of this promotion?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think all that “in partnership” means is that we’ve
been encouraging private sector entities to take actions to incentivize
people to get vaccinated, given we know that will ensure that more
Americans have shots in their arms, are safe, are healthy, and
communities can return back to normal.   
  
You know, obviously, as it relates, we take data security and people’s
privacy incredibly seriously.  And, certainly, if there was an area of
concern, we would speak out against that.  But we have seen a number of
these actions by private sector companies be quite effective, and more
shots in arms is a good thing.   
  
Go ahead, Kaitlan.  
  
Q    The meeting with Senator Capito today, should we expect President
Biden to give her any kind of deadline for a major breakthrough on these
talks to happen?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I wouldn’t expect this meeting to be an exchange of paper. 
It would be more of a discussion.  And certainly, we’ll see what comes
out of the meeting and what the appropriate next step is.  But I don’t
know — I’m not going to predetermine that before the meeting even
begins.  
  
Q    And should we expect it to be one-on-one, or will White House staff
be in the room, just to clarify?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I would expect at least a portion of it to be one-on-one, if
not — if not the whole meeting, but I can check on that for you too.   
  
Q    Okay.  And just to follow up on your comments on what President
Biden said about Senator Manchin and Senator Sinema: Are you saying that
that was not a criticism of the two of them?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  It was not.  No.  He considers them both friends.  He
considers them both good working partners.  And he also believes that,
in democracy, we don’t have to see eye to eye on every detail of every
single issue in order to work together, and he certainly thinks that
reflects their relationship.   
  
Q    But even saying “two Democrats vote with Republicans more than they
do with their own party” —   
  
MS. PSAKI:  “With my Republican friends.”  I would say that the fact
that the President is having Senator Capito here today and has been
having ongoing discussions with Republicans in the Senate and that he’s
eager to find a path forward on bipartisan work certainly tells you, I
think, what you need to know about what he thinks about working with
people even when there’s disagreement.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Just a few quick ones.  The NAACP criticized Biden’s plan, as was
mentioned earlier, about not including the cancellation of student
debt.   
  
In April, Ron Klain said that the President had asked the Education
Department to prepare a memo on wiping out debt for executive action. 
And he said, “Hopefully, we’ll see that in the next few weeks.”  Is
there any update on that memo about, kind of, what the President might
do on that front?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have an update.  It was Department of Education, but
also a legal review as well.   
  
Q    Okay.  And then one question on Israel: Does Biden have a view on
Naftali Bennett’s past statements about annexing the West Bank and
negating a two-state solution?  How will Biden approach clear
differences there on that issue?  And does he still think he has a
partner for peace in an Israeli government led by Bennett?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, we’re not going to weigh in on an ongoing political
process in a foreign country — in Israel or anywhere in the world.  I
think you’re probably — know well what the President’s view is on a
two-state solution and how he believes it’s the only path forward for
lasting peace in the region.  
  
Q    And then just a quick follow-up.  Do you know if Bennett and Biden
have met before, they’ve — or any interaction in person?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  It’s a good question.  I don’t know if they have met in the
past or have a prior relationship.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    President Biden campaigned on ending the federal death penalty. 
When is he going to take steps to do that?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  He has — he did campaign on that and has talked about his
views on the death penalty.  I don’t have any update on any forward
action.   
  
Q    But isn’t his delay there a sign that perhaps he doesn’t feel as
strongly about this as maybe he sounded when he was campaigning?  The
—  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t think it’s a sign of that.  There’s a legal process
and a Department of Justice process that would be — would be standard in
any scenario here.   
  
Q    When did he change his mind on the death penalty?  Because during
the ’94 —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I did not convey he changed his mind.  
  
Q    The ’94 Crime Bill expanded the amount of crimes that receive —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  He spoke to this pretty extensively on the campaign, and
that’s his position.  I think we’re going to have to move on.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    I wanted to just — given what you said that his position hasn’t
changed on the filibuster, I just want to go back to the vote last week
in the Senate on the January 6th commission —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  
  
Q    — the fact that there were 54 “yes” votes, 35 “no” votes.  The bill
failed.  This is an insurrection that the President has called an
“unprecedented assault.”   
  
I’m just curious if that math makes sense to this President and if that
outcome would be acceptable should it repeat later this month when the
Senate takes up voting rights.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  When you say the “math makes sense,” what do you mean by
that exactly?  
  
Q    I mean the fact that 54 lawmakers in the Senate voted “yes,” 35
voted “no,” and the bill did not pass.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say, first, that the President doesn’t see a
reason for anyone to have voted against that bill, so he doesn’t
understand that version of the math as a starting point.   
  
 He continues to believe that, given that was a dark day in our
democracy — a day that, I think, we will all remember; he will remember,
certainly, as President, as a day that does not stand out as a model of
what is possible in this country.  
  
In terms of his view of the filibuster, you know, again, his position
has not changed on that.  He does want to see accountability as it
relates to — and he does want to see an assessment of what happened to
prevent it from ever happening again.  And he is happy to talk with
members of Congress about how to approach that moving forward.  
  
As you all know, no President can wave a wand and pass a piece of
legislation with 50 votes, when it requires 60.  That requires Congress
to move forward with that action.  
  
Q    But it seems like it requires only one more Democratic vote than
currently exists for that, and that vote happens to be a person who the
President did seem to single out yesterday.  
  
So you’re saying that he didn’t change his position on the filibuster,
and yet, you know, he’s saying things — I mean, his passion for voting
rights was evident yesterday when he spoke.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Mm-hmm.  
  
Q    He’s saying, “We must find the courage…” — I’m quoting him — “…to
change the things we know we can change.”  
  
So, I just want to be very sure that you’re saying that: Should that
outcome repeat itself later this month — if the Senate takes up voting
rights, more than 50 lawmakers vote for a bill, but if the bill does not
advance to his desk — is that something he’s going to be okay living
with?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Again, I don’t think the President is okay with a January
6th commission not being in place.  He’s not okay with voting rights not
passing.  And he will continue to advocate for both moving forward.   
  
Go ahead.   
  
Q    Yes.  As the President prepares for the summit with leaders of the
NATO, some reports surfaced regarding spying on — on Germany.  How would
that affect the summit and the — like, the reestablishment of the
U.S.-NATO relations?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I think you’re referring to the reports from 2014 — correct?
— that dated back to, I will say, my last time in government.   
  
I don’t — I wouldn’t say that — you know, in 2014, let me say, we issued
a full — the United States issued a full review of our approach to
overseas surveillance.  President Obama, at that time, issued a
presidential directive that changed our approach in significant ways.   
  
So that is a lot that has happened since — between the la- — over the
last seven years.  And we will continue to work with our European allies
and partners to address any questions through the appropriate national
security channels.  
  
But I can tell you that President Biden will be able to reassure
President Merkel and President Macron about current U.S. posture.  And,
you know, certainly we look forward to working together on a range of
—  
  
Q    And Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu said that, you know, he would
stand against any agreement between — you know, with Iran, even if that
would, you know, cause trouble with the Israeli-American relations.  Is
there any reaction from the White House regarding that?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sorry, the first part of your question was what?  It was
about —  
  
Q    You know, Netanyahu said that, like, he would stand against any
agreement on —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Oh, on Iran.  
  
Q    Yes.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Mm-hmm.  
  
Q    And, you know, even if that would, you know, result in, like,
tension with, you know, American-Israeli relations.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  That’s consistently been the Prime Minister’s position.  And
what our responsibility is and the responsibility of President Biden is
to act in the interests of the United States.  And our view is that
putting in place a diplomatic agreement — an agreement where we can
prevent Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon, where we have returned to
the visibility we had before the former President pulled out of that
deal — is in our interest.  
  
So we will continue to work and brief the leaders in Israel, as we have
over the last several years, but our position hasn’t changed.  
  
Q    Okay.  Last question, if I may.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  
  
Q    You know, the Israelis requested a billion dollar, you know, in
military aid after what had just happened.  You know, is the United
States willing to and prepared to provide that aid?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  The President conveyed that — at his press conference he did
with the leader of South Korea just a few weeks ago — that nothing has
changed about our intention to provide assistance to the Israeli
government and also our desire and interest in providing humanitarian
and security assistance to the Palestinians as well.   
  
So I expect those will continue.  I don’t have any assessment of any new
request.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, Jen.  On the vaccination efforts: As of May 7th, only
less than 7 percent of the ICE detainee population — about 22,000
detainees — have been vaccinated.  Where is that process going?  The
ACLU has demanded this White House, via a letter, to speed up that
process.  So do you have an update?  
  
And also, how do you plan to vaccinate eligible unaccompanied minors who
are in detention?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, on the first question, Immigration and Customs
Enforcement — ICE — is firmly committed to the health and wellbeing and
welfare of all those in custody.  COVID-19 vaccines for ICE detainees
are being allocated by local and state health departments — that’s how
they are distributed — based on availability and the state’s vaccine
implementation plans.  So that’s where they directly come, not from —
not directly from the federal government.   
  
Additionally, DHS’s chief medical officer is rapidly working on scaling
our own internal capability to vaccinate detainees in our care across
the country.  So that would be an additional step in addition to the
state and local allocations, but it is a focus and a priority.  
  
In terms of unaccompanied minors, some eligible unaccompanied children
have already received a COVID-19 vaccine.  We’re working with our state
partners to implement broader vaccine distribution.  In keeping with CDC
guidance, it hasn’t been an extensive period of time where children
under the age of 18 have been eligible.   
  
Obviously, these allocations are distributed across states, but, of
course, they’ve been broadly available for some time in the country, so
this should provide greater access to the vaccine to unaccompanied
children.  
  
Q    And is the President aware of the current situation in Nicaragua,
where the government is harassing journalists, activists, even a
presidential candidate, and is claiming — is investigating them for
money laundering in that country with really no legal basis?  Is he
aware?  Is the State Department working on this?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I know the State Department is, and I’d certainly send you
to them.  On any specific comment from here, obviously, we would speak
out against any harassment of journalists, individuals, leaders, the —
you know, crushing of freedom of speech, expression that it sounds like
is occurring in this case.   
  
Q    I think we have an out.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Okay.  All right, thank you, everyone.  I’ll look forward to
seeing you tomorrow.   
  
1:09 P.M. EDT
