---
tags: press-briefings
date: '2021-06-08'
modified_time: 2021-06-08 19:13:38-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/06/08/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-deputy-director-of-the-national-economic-council-sameera-fazili-and-senior-director-for-international-economics-and-competitiveness-peter-harrell-june-8/
published_time: 2021-06-08 19:13:37-04:00
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Jen\_Psaki, Deputy Director of the National\
  \ Economic Council Sameera Fazili, and Senior Director for International Economics\
  \ and Competitiveness Peter Harrell, June 8,\_2021"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

1:15 P.M. EDT  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Happy Tuesday.  So, we have two very special guests with us
again today.  As you know, the Biden-Harris administration — I’m just
going to let you all settle in here.  Okay.  All right.  Great. 
Okay.   
  
So, as you all know, today, the Biden-Harris administration announced
key findings from the reviews directed by the President’s executive
order on America’s supply chains.  The executive order, signed February
24th, directed a whole-of-government approach to assessing
vulnerabilities in and strengthening the resilience of critical supply
chains.  
  
So, here to discuss the immediate actions we will be taking to promote
economic security, national security, and create good-paying union jobs
by strengthening American supply chains are repeat guests — back for the
second time; they had so much fun the first time — Deputy Director of
the National Economic Council Sameera Fazili and Senior Director of
International Economics and Competitiveness at the NSC Peter Harrell.  
  
Okay.  Thanks, Sameera.  You’re kicking us off.  
  
DEPUTY DIRECTOR FAZILI:  Thank you.  Hi, everyone.  Good afternoon.  And
thank you, Jen.  It is good to be back here at the end of this
whole-of-government review that we just undertook of America’s supply
chains, following President Biden’s direction back in February.  
  
We said from the beginning that our approach to supply chain policy
needs to be an integral part of the President’s overarching economic
strategy to grow the economy from the bottom up and the middle out.  
  
We also said that we were not going to simply be writing reports in this
100 days that were going to sit on a shelf; we are going to be taking
action to address specific supply chain vulnerabilities.  I think
today’s reports make both those things crystal clear.   
  
To achieve supply chain resiliency, we need to build back better by
leveraging America’s greatest strengths:  
  
First and foremost, American workers.  Decades of focusing on labor as a
cost to be managed and not an asset to be invested in have weakened our
domestic supply chains, undermined wages and union density for workers,
and also contributed to companies’ challenges finding skilled talent.   
  
We must focus on creating pathways for all Americans to access well-paid
jobs with a free and fair choice to join a union and bargain
collectively.  
  
Second, our diversity.  We need to unlock the full potential of the
American people, including making economic opportunities available
across our country and for women and for people of color.  
  
Third, our small businesses.  To build a diverse and healthy ecosystem
of suppliers, we must rebuild our small- and medium-sized business
manufacturing base that has borne the brunt of the hollowing out of U.S.
manufacturing.  
  
Fourth, our alliances.  We need to diversify our international suppliers
and reduce geographic concentration risk.  For too long, the U.S. has
taken certain features of global markets — especially the fear that
companies and capital are going to flee to wherever wages, taxes, and
regulation are the lowest — as inevitable.  The pandemic laid bare the
challenges of this approach, and we need to change it.  We are committed
to working with partners and allies to decrease the vulnerabilities in
our collective supply chains.  
  
And finally, fifth, our imagination.  Our approach to supply chain
resilience needs to look forward to emerging threats, from cybersecurity
to climate issues.  And so we are future-proofing and building back
better.  
  
Second, it’s clear from these reports that we need to take action.  And
today, we made a series of announcements to that effect, including on
pharmaceuticals.  
  
The Department of Health and Human Services is going to be using its
Defense Production Act authority and funding appropriated under the
President’s American Recovery Plan to invest $60 million in advanced
pharmaceutical manufacturing technologies and R&D.  
  
On advanced batteries, the Department of Energy will take steps to
advance its support for battery research, manufacturing, and
processing.  This is going to include new rules to ensure that companies
that develop new products based on federal R&D funding manufacture those
products in the U.S., so what is invented in America will also be made
in America by American workers.   
  
On critical minerals and materials like lithium and rare earths that are
essential in our fight to combat the climate crisis, we will be
announcing a comprehensive strategy that includes increases in
sustainable U.S. production and processing, and working with allies and
partners to increase sustainable global supply and reduce reliance on
geopolitical competitors.   
  
Across all of our domestic and international efforts on minerals, we
will maintain a commitment to adhere to the highest environmental,
labor, and social sustainability standards, and support robust community
engagement in the process, including Tribal consultations here in the
U.S.  
  
On semiconductors, the Department of Commerce will double down on their
ongoing work to convene industry and work with allies and partners to
increase transparency, communication, and trust throughout the
semiconductor supply chain.  
  
Finally, as we move to focus on our one-year reviews, the Department of
Agriculture is announcing more than $4 billion in a robust suite of
Build Back Better initiatives focused on building a more fair,
competitive, distributed, and resilient food supply chain and food
system.  
  
Third, we need to be nimble and be able to address emerging supply chain
issues at the same time as we’re continuing this work on these longer
supply chain resiliency strategies.  And that is why today we are
launching a new Supply Chain Disruptions Task Force to tackle near-term
bottlenecks in the semiconductor, homebuilding and construction,
transportation, and agricultural and food industries.   
  
This task force is going to be led by three Cabinet Secretaries —
Secretaries Buttigieg, Raimondo, and Vilsack — and will bring in
all-of-government approach to addressing the near-term supply and demand
mismatches we are seeing in these sectors as the economy reignites.  
  
They will be collaborating closely with industry, labor, and other
stakeholders to surface solutions, share best practices, and take
actions.  And we at the White House are going to be their partners by
their side.  It’s going to be NEC, DPC, CEA, NSC — all of us working
with them.  
  
Throughout our work on supply chains, we have been heartened to see the
bipartisan support for supply chain security and resiliency, including
when the President started this review by meeting with a bipartisan
group of senators in the Oval Office.  
  
We look forward to working with Congress as we move these ideas into
action.  
  
And before I turn it over to my colleague and friend Peter Harrell, I
want to note that our report’s findings reinforce the President’s call
for making a once-in-a-generation investment in our nation’s production
and innovation infrastructure.  Those investments proposed in the
American Jobs Plan and the American Families Plan will strengthen the
public systems that connect manufacturing, researchers, workers, and
small businesses, and will help unleash the power and ingenuity of the
private markets to drive towards national resiliency.  
  
Thank you.  Peter?  
  
MR. HARRELL:  Good afternoon.  Thanks, Sameera.  And it’s a pleasure for
me to be here this afternoon.  This is a signature initiative for
President Biden.  He is focused on supply chain resilience since his
campaign, when he promised, almost a year ago, that if elected, he would
direct his administration to expand investments in U.S. manufacturing
and to take other steps to strengthen the resilience of U.S. supply
chains.  
  
Earlier today, pursuant to Executive Order 14017 that President Biden
signed in February, we released publicly 250 pages of reports, assessing
supply chain vulnerabilities and making recommendations, including
immediate actions to address them.  
  
Earlier this morning, National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan and
National Economic Council Director Brian Deese convened a meeting of
many members of the Cabinet here at the White House, in the Roosevelt
Room, to discuss the recommendations in this report and for the Cabinet
members to commit to taking action across the U.S. government to
implement those recommendations and other critical steps to address
supply chain resilience.  
  
While the President’s supply chain initiative has identified a number of
vulnerabilities, I want to stress that our work has also found that the
United States is well positioned to rebuild our productive capacity in
key sectors and to strengthen our innovative leadership.  We’re
confident that working together with Congress, industry, labor, and
other stakeholders, we can chart a new path that emphasizes resilience,
security, broad-based growth, and sustainability.  
  
As Sameera mentioned, the President and the entire administration
welcome the strong bipartisan support that exists on Capitol Hill for
strengthening American supply chain resilience.  
  
Sameera highlighted a number of the domestically focused specific
actions that the administration announced earlier today.  I want to
briefly discuss just a few of the actions that we’re taking
internationally.  
  
As Sameera said, America’s allies and partners are a great strength of
our nation, and we must work in partnership with them on supply chain
resilience.  We’re announcing today a commitment from the U.S.
Development Finance Corporation to increase high standards overseas
investments in U.S. allies and partners and projects that strengthen
supply chains.  
  
We’re also asking the U.S. Export-Import Bank to develop a proposal for
a new domestic finance window that would, if approved by EXIM’s board,
provide financing to build manufacturing facilities and infrastructure
here in the U.S. that will support U.S. exports of critical products,
which will help our allies and partners.  
  
We’re going to be increasing our diplomatic work with our allies and
partners on supply chain security.  Supply chain security will feature
prominently on the agenda for President Biden’s trip to Europe starting
later this week, including at the U.S.-EU Leaders Summit scheduled for
early next week, and was already a major element of President Biden’s
summits earlier this spring with key U.S. allies in Asia.  
  
We’re also recommending that President Biden host a global forum at the
head-of-state level to convene key global leaders to strengthen supply
chain cooperation.  
  
Finally, we know that as we strengthen cooperation with our allies and
partners, we also have to push back against unfair trade practices by
competitor nations that have hollowed out the U.S. industrial base and
undermine our supply chain security.  We’re launching a U.S. Trade
Representative-led supply chain trade strike force to identify unfair
trade practices that undermine U.S. supply chains and to identify
specific trade actions we can bring to combat those practices.  
  
We’re also asking the Commerce Department to evaluate a Section 232
action on neodymium magnets — which are essential to motors and a range
of defense and industrial applications — to identify tools to reduce our
foreign dependency.  This would demonstrate the type of targeted but
tough action we expect the trade strike force to deliver.  
  
I want to thank members of the Cabinet and their staff who contributed
to these reports and actions.  The initiative represents an immense
amount of work, and we know we have much more in the weeks and months
ahead.  We’ll be working to implement all of the recommendations
summarized in the report, and carrying forward the work to a second
phase directed by EO 14017, which is already underway and consists of
broad studies of the supply chain risks of six key industrial base
sectors.  Those industrial base sector supply chain reports will be due
next February, on the year mark of Executive Order <s>1417</s>
\[14017\].   
  
It’s been an honor for all of us to work on this initiative, and I’m
sure we’ll be talking about it with you regularly as our work goes
forward.   
  
Thank you, and we look forward to a couple of questions.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Okay.  Go ahead, Phil.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  I think probably for Sameera, can I flesh out a
little bit the Supply Chain Disruptions Task Force?  Obviously, you guys
believe what’s happening right now is transitory.  But these mismatches
exist; they’re creating near-term problems.  Do you expect this task
force to be coming up with ideas and proposals in real time?  Are they
reporting at a specific clip?  Kind of, how do you expect this to work
to try and address these things that are problems right now?  
  
MS. FAZILI:  Yep.  Well, one, I want everyone to remember and recognize
that these are, kind of, good problems to be having.  At this time last
year, we had bare grocery shelves and we had people going hungry.  And
thanks to the President’s American Rescue Plan, we have people finally
able to be out there moving again, visiting families this summer, and
going out to eat.   
  
So, these are — these are good problems to be having and to be working —
working on right now.  We’re thankful for that and the success of our
COVID vaccination strategy.   
  
But I think what you just saw us do right now is a 100-day sprint around
four products.  And when we say we’re going to take sprints and take
actions, we mean a sprint and we mean action.  And so, here, our Cabinet
Secretaries, who are in the lead, you’ll see in the days and weeks
ahead, they’re going to be bringing together all stakeholders to really
diagnose the problems, understand what’s going on out there in these
markets, and see what actions can be taken to close those
vulnerabilities.  
  
We recognize that, in some instances, those actions are going to be
actions that the private sector, other stakeholder groups, they need to
be the ones taking action.  The answer is not always government taking
the action here.  But we are — we have learned in our work with the
semiconductor, kind of, producers and users that when you bring people
together, you help them increase trust, increase transparency, and
stimulate a lot of learning that sparks action.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  April.  
  
Q    This is for Sameera and Peter.  Sameera, you used the word
“weakened.”  And as we’re talking about supplies, I’m looking at the
link with inflation.  What should the American consumer be looking for
now as we’ve come up with this report and the weaknesses that you’ve
talked about as it relates to inflation?   
  
And then, Peter, for you: You used the words, “vulnerability.”  With
putting “weakened” and “vulnerability” together, there’s some kind of
economic parallel with this.  Where are we economically in this nation? 
What is our status?  We are staving off, or have been trying to stave
off depression.  Where are we economically?  Are we still in recession —
a deep recession?  Where are we?  If you can answer both of those
questions.  
  
MS. FAZILI:  Look, I think where we are economically is the U.S. is
clearly the engine of global growth right now.  Our economy has
reignited, and the rest of the world is being buoyed by our successes
here.  
  
So the economy is fundamentally in a position of strength, but this
President has consistently said that what we need to do is take this
moment to build back better.   
  
So when we talk about weaknesses and vulnerabilities in this report,
we’ve identified structural, long-term problems that have built up over
time in our economy, and that is why this President has been out there
calling for Congress to take action on his American Jobs Plan and
American Families Plan — because what we need now is a transformational
investment to make sure we can actually grow from the bottom up and the
middle out.  
  
Peter, do you want to —  
  
Q    What about inflation?  
  
MS. FAZILI:  Peter.  
  
Q    What about the issue of inflation, though, that’s (inaudible)?  
  
MS. FAZILI:  Oh, you know, on these supply chain bottlenecks that we’re
seeing, these — some of these — these price dislocations, these
temporary increases in delivery time — we fully expect these bottlenecks
to be temporary in nature and to resolve themselves over the next few
weeks.  Like, if — again, these are good problems to be having.  Demand
came back much quicker than even companies expected.  I think the
success of our vaccination campaign surprised many people, and so they
weren’t prepared for demand to rebound in this way.  But we still expect
this to be transitory in nature.  We’re going to keep an eye on it, but
we think it should resolve in the next few months.  
  
Q    And the status — and the status of where we are economically? 
Recession, staving off depression, deep recession — where are we?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I mean, I think — I think Sameera addressed that.  I just
want to —  
  
Q    No, she said — okay, strength.  
  
MS. FAZILI:  Strength.  
  
Q    Okay, good.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Josh.  
  
Q    Can I ask a little bit more about the semiconductor portion of
this?  
  
MS. FAZILI:  I mean — and I’ll point you to, on Friday, the OECD
report.  We’re, like, the one advanced economy that, I think, our growth
projections are above where we were at the pandemic.  Was it 6.9?  So
—  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead, Josh.  
  
Q    On semiconductors: How do you plan to balance funding or support
for foreign manufacturers — allies, partners — and domestic
manufacturers?  Is there going to be a preference given to domestic, or
is there a risk that this could, you know, support foreign manufacturers
in a way that actually undercuts the domestic industry?  How, if at all,
do you plan on balancing that?  
  
MR. HARRELL:  So, I think we are taking an all-of-the-above strategy to
semiconductor manufacturing and expanding semiconductor manufacturing,
both here in the United States and abroad.  
  
As you know, the President has called for Congress to appropriate at
least $50 billion to strengthen semiconductor manufacturing here in the
United States, including both leading-edge semiconductors and also some
of the more mature semiconductors where we’re seeing current shortages
for automotive manufacturing and industrial applications.  
  
Generally speaking, consistent with the proposal in Congress, we would
expect to encourage both foreign and American companies to invest here
in the United States.  And I think we’re already seeing some
announcements of that where we’ve seen announcements from Intel, from
Samsung, from GlobalFoundries, from a whole range of both foreign and
American companies to expand capacity here.  
  
But it isn’t just from an overall strategy; that money is going to be
about attracting capacity here in the United States. But from our
overall strategy, it’s not only about expanding capacity here in the
United States, it’s also about working with allies and partners. 
Yesterday, for example, Bosch, the major European automotive supplier,
opened a new automotive semiconductor factory in Germany.  That’s going
to help alleviate some of the global shortages we’re seeing.   
  
So while that money is going to lead to greater production here in the
United States, and we’re expecting to see a major increase in production
over the next couple of years, this is also an area where we see
opportunities to work with allies and partners.  
  
Q    So you would treat an investment in the U.S., in a semiconductor
plant, equally, whether the investor was a foreign company or an
American one?  
  
MR. HARRELL:  So we expect that the incentives will be available on a
competitive basis to both foreign and American companies.  I’m not here
to get into the specifics of exactly how the program will be
implemented, if Congress, in fact, passes — passes it.  
  
Q    And, finally, can you talk a bit about the trade strike force? 
What are they tasked with doing or able to do that USTR doesn’t do
already?  
  
MR. HARRELL:  So I think the trade strike force is a vehicle to leverage
a number of our existing trade tools, but to really focus them on supply
chain vulnerabilities.  You know, we have — as we looked across the four
products that we are releasing reports on today, we saw example after
example where an unfair foreign competitor action had led to the
hollowing out of a supply chain for a key U.S. product.   
  
And these are all often very specific things those foreign governments
are doing.  So what this is going to do is harness and focus the
government agencies involved in trade enforcement on how do we use our
trade tools to strengthen — to combat unfair trade practices that impact
supply chains and to strengthen U.S. supply chains.  And I think the
neodymium magnet — 232 — we’re asking Commerce to evaluate is an example
of that.  
  
Through our reports, we identified a very specific product where there’s
a very specific supply chain vulnerability, and we’re getting the task
force to look at that.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Brian.  
  
Q    Yeah, I guess, the Disruption Task Force — are you all going to be
looking at ransomware attacks?  And how will you deal with it
internationally?   
  
MS. FAZILI:  On ransomware?  
  
Q    Yes.  
  
MS. FAZILI:  The Disruption Task Force is focused on semiconductors,
lumber and construction — or homebuilding and construction materials;
it’s not going to focus on ransomware and cybersecurity.  We have a
whole —  
  
Q    So how will you deal with that?  
  
MS. FAZILI:  — other process in place, led by our National Security
Council, that addresses cybersecurity risks and issues.  
  
Q    And, internationally, you’ll deal with that how?  
  
MR. HARRELL:  So I think you saw, the other day, Deputy National
Security Advisor Neuberger talk about some of the steps that the
administration is taking to address ransomware.  She is leading a
process to identify and close vulnerabilities that we face from
ransomware.  
  
One of the sets of issues we have been looking at in our supply chain
review, both on these four products and in our year-long industrial
base, is cybersecurity risks to our supply chains.  Clearly,
cybersecurity risks can disrupt supply chains.  But Ms. Neuberger is
leading the, sort of, focus response to the ransomware issue.  
  
Q    So that’ll be two siloed — two different things?  Or are they
working together (inaudible)?  
  
MS. FAZILI:  I would not say it’s siloed.  We work very closely.  I
think Peter and I being up here shows you how closely the National
Economic Council and National Security Council work together on issues
where it makes sense for us to come together.  And so, on cybersecurity,
you have seen us behind the scenes working together to figure out how we
can leverage our tools and our convening power to have a full government
response repeatedly.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Okay, last one.  Right in the middle.  Go ahead.   
  
Q    Will the administration unbundle — work on unbundling large
contracts to ensure that Black-owned companies can compete for them?  
  
MS. FAZILI:  So, we are very focused on trying to make sure that our
Build Back Better agenda — sorry, it’s hard to see — is it okay if I
stand here —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.   
  
MS. FAZILI:  — to be able to look — yeah.  I relate.   I relate.   
  
No, we are — we are really focused on making sure that as we talk about
diversifying supplier bases here in these reports, that we are not just
talking about small businesses but  
we’re talking about disadvantaged businesses as well, and minority-owned
businesses.  And so, you’ve seen in our American Jobs Plan that we put
proposals in there related to small business and strengthening small
business.  And we know that an important piece of that is leveraging
federal procurement and power of the government to support those
businesses.  So —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Christian has been very eager in the back.  Go ahead,
Christian.  Last actual one.  
  
Q    You talked about the Export-Import Bank and some of the financing
that is going to be done to shore up industrial manufacturing here in
United States.  Under the previous administration, though, China was one
of the top destinations of U.S. export-import financing.  An
overwhelming majority of that money actually went to state-owned
enterprises.  Is the administration looking at anything in terms of
financing that goes to some of these industries overseas?  Shouldn’t,
you know, the priority be making certain that money stays here?  
  
MR. HARRELL:  So that’s actually exactly the proposal we’re asking the
Export-Import Bank’s board to evaluate: is a new window that would
foster direct EXIM Bank financing for the construction and manufacturing
in infrastructure here in the United States.   
  
Obviously, they have a longstanding set of programs that finance the
export of products made in the United States to foreign buyers.  But,
actually, it’s exactly what we’re asking them to look at is ways to
expand the financing for construction and investment here in the U.S.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Thank you both so much for joining us.  Appreciate it. 
Always welcome.  
  
MR. HARRELL:  Thank you.  
  
Q    Thank you.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  We love to talk about supply chains in here.   
  
Okay, just two more items for all of you at the top.  Yesterday, in
Guatemala City, following a bilateral meeting with the Guatemalan
President, the Vice President announced a new effort to partner with
Guatemala around security, economic development, and anti-corruption.   
  
Today, in Mexico, the Vice President will hold a bilateral meeting with
President Obrador.  They’ll discuss our economic relationship, security
cooperation, and stemming migration.  The Vice President and President
Obrador will witness the signing of a memorandum of understanding
between the United States and Mexico to establish a strategic
partnership to cooperate on development programs in the region.  And the
Vice President will also meet with labor leaders, women entrepreneurs,
and U.S. embassy staff before she returns to the United States.   
  
One last item for all of you.  We have more good news on the global
fight against COVID-19.  Today, the Mastercard Foundation and Mastercard
pledged to make a $1.3 billion contribution to help make critical
progress in providing vaccines to people across Africa, in partnership
with the Africa Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.  This is a
significant commitment to acquire COVID-19 vaccines for at least 50
million people, and to build long-term manufacturing and equitable
distribution capacity, which will further enable efforts to provide
vaccines and strengthen the continent’s ability to prepare for future
pandemics.   
  
This is a welcome addition to our announcement last week that
approximately 5 million of our first tranche of COVID-19 vaccines will
be shared with African countries, in coordination with the African
Union.  
  
Q    Which vaccines?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Which vaccines?  They’re providing funding — a contribution
of funding to ensure that these vaccines are provided to Africa.  I
don’t have the —  
  
Q    So it’s up to them whichever vaccines they take?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  It’s, again, funding to the Africa CDC — version of the
CDC.  So it will be distributed through there.  
  
With that, Darlene, why don’t you kick us off.   
  
Q    Thank you.  Have the President and Senator Capito had their
conversation yet?  And what can you tell us about it, if they have?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  They have not had a conversation yet, but they will have a
conversation this afternoon.  And the President looks forward to
continuing the discussion with the senator.  He appreciates her
good-faith engagement over the last few weeks.  I would reiterate, as
was noted in the statement we put out last week, that while the
President came down by quite a bit in his proposal — from his initial
proposal — on the American Jobs Plan, the latest offer that we had seen
from Senator Capito’s group did not meet the essential needs of our
country to restore roads and bridges, prepare us for a clean energy
future, and create jobs.   
  
So today they’ll have a discussion about what more there is to discuss,
I guess, and what the path looks like for it.   
  
I will also note that the President will also speak with other senators
this afternoon — still finalizing who those will be, and we’ll have
readouts of that as well — who have been engaged in discussions about a
bipartisan infrastructure proposal — engaged with each other.  So he’ll
have those discussions as well.  I expect we’ll have a readout, as I
noted.  
  
We’re encouraged by these discussions and see them as an additional
viable path forward.  And he’ll ask members of his Jobs Cabinet — or
he’s already asked them, I should say, to remain engaged in the days
ahead, the period of time when he’s on his foreign trip — although, of
course, he’ll remain engaged from there as well — with all members who
are interested in working together on making a historic investment in
infrastructure.  
  
And just third piece I would note, Darlene, as we’re kind of — since you
asked about the President engagement — he’s also going to stay closely
engaged with Democratic leadership about the path forward, especially in
light of the markup on the Surface Transportation bill happening
tomorrow in the House and the interest by Speaker Pelosi, Leader
Schumer, and other leaders in Congress on moving forward — and certainly
an interest in doing that.   
  
Finally, last thing I would note is the expected passage later today of
the U.S. Innovation and Competitiveness Act in the Senate this
afternoon, which is a down payment on the President’s proposed
investment in R&D to make us more competitive, as well as the important
work with Senator — that Senator Wyden has undertaken on clean energy
tax credits, a priority the President shares.  
  
So I would just note, as I’ve stated many times before in here, there
are a number of paths for moving the President’s bold ideas forward. 
We’re moving on all of them full speed ahead.   
  
Q    And one more question.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  
  
Q    Since the President is the head of the Democratic Party, would he
support legislation that is now on the governor’s desk in Nevada that
would move Nevada to first place in the presidential primary process, up
from third place?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I certainly understand the interest, but I’m not going to
weigh in on the order of a presidential primary contests from here.   
  
Go ahead, Mary.  
  
Q    On the infrastructure talks, Senator Capito has said she is not
going to be coming to this conversation armed with a new offer.  As you
note, the President has rejected the Republicans’ latest counteroffer. 
It doesn’t seem that he’s willing to come down any further.  So, are we
at an impasse here?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We certainly don’t see it that way.  He’s looking forward to
discussing the path forward with Senator Capito.  He sees her as an
important and viable partner as we look to how we’re going to get his
bold ideas signed into law.   
  
And again, I’d note that there’s also Democrats and Republicans — as you
have seen and many of you have reported on — who are discussing what —
how they can work together on what a path forward would look like, where
there might be more investment in clean energy jobs, and might be a
higher number than what we’ve seen by the proposals to date.   
  
So, again, there are a lot propo- — a lot of paths forward.  And he
looks forward to discussing what they look like with Senator Capito and
others this afternoon.  
  
Q    Is the President, though, willing to offer any other concessions in
these negotiations, or is it safe to say that you view the ball as being
in the Republicans’ court here?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Look, I think this is — as any negotiation is, it’s about
both sides looking to see how much they can come to the other side, and
how much you have to give.  The President has come down by about a
trillion dollars; that’s quite a bit.  Obviously, we’d like to see
more.  But there are a number of opportunities and paths to have these
discussions, moving forward.   
  
Q    And I want to — just broadly, if you could explain a little bit
more how the President has been preparing for this big trip tomorrow. 
How much time has he been spending in briefings?  Just, sort of, how has
he been getting ready for this upcoming trip?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, I will say that he’s been getting ready for 50
years.  He has been on the world stage.  He’s known a number of these
leaders for decades, including President Putin and including a number of
the leaders he’ll see at NATO and he’ll see at the G7.   
  
Now, this is an important opportunity for him to see them in person, and
there’s nothing like face-to-face engagement in diplomacy.  And for him,
somebody who, as you’ve seen — the fact that he’s welcomed in Democrats
and Republicans to the Oval Office, that’s just an indication of how
much he feels that format is effective.   
  
So, he’s been engaging with his team, talking about what bilateral
conversations he’ll be having; where there are opportunities; where
there are moments to voice the United States’ concern, where necessary. 
But again, he’s — he’s got quite a — several decades of experience to
build on here.  So, you know, he’ll be relying on that in the — in —
during his trip.  
  
Go ahead, Phil.   
  
Q    Secretary Granholm, on Sunday, said that it was frustrating that a
pathway for a bipartisan deal hadn’t come to fruition yet.  Does the
President share that frustration at this point?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say the President has a benefit of 36 years in
the Senate, where he has seen that the sausage-making is messy.  It
takes time.  There are ups and downs on the roller coaster.  We’re right
in the middle of the sausage-making right now.   
  
And the President’s view is that it’s a good sign that there are several
viable paths forward, that we are having good-faith conversations, of
course, with Democrats and our Democratic colleagues and partners, but
also with a number of Republicans.  That’s a good sign.   
  
At the same time, the House is moving forward with marking up key
components of the American Jobs Plan.  So, the fact is this train is
moving on several tracks.  That’s how we know these larger packages,
larger proposals often move forward.  And we’re encouraged by the
variety of options.  
  
Q    And along the lines of sausage making, given the scale of the
President’s ambitions with his proposals he’s put on the table, is the
real reason that he’s still in bipartisan negotiations right now because
moderate Democrats are saying, “We need to stay in bipartisan
negotiations right now”?  Or does he think something can come of them?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  The President wouldn’t be spending his time engaging in
hours of discussions with Republicans if he didn’t think something could
come from it.  Now, we can’t predict what the final outcome is, and
we’re keeping — his only lines in the sand — as you know, Phil — are
inaction and raising taxes on Americans making less than $400,000 a
year.   
  
We know there is — there are a lot of Democrats who are eager to move
forward, as are we.  But we think there are a lot of paths forward where
we can — where it’s worth continuing to pursue bipartisan discussion.   
  
Go ahead.   
  
Q    Thank you.  About the Vice President’s trip: Why is it then that
when the Vice President is asked if she has plans to visit the border,
she says, “We’ve been to the border,” even though she has not, as Vice
President?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, as the Vice President, she does speak for the actions
of the people in the administration she certainly helps oversee.  I
expect that sometime she may go to the border, Peter.  But as you know,
what her focus has been, what the assignment is specifically, is to work
with leaders in the Northern Triangle.  She’s on a trip doing exactly
that, exactly what the President asked her to do.  
  
Q    And, as we understand it though, her main focus is to try to
address the root causes of migration.  Did somebody decide here that it
would not be helpful for her to go to the border and talk to people who
just migrated here?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, again, I think that at some point she may go to the
border.  We’ll see.  But she’s in the Northern Triangle now to have
discussions with leaders, with community leaders, with civil society
leaders, with the embassy about how we can work together.  And obviously
she’s made a couple of announcements already — probably more to come
before she comes back to the United States.   
  
Q    And she described though — you said she might go to the border —
she described a trip to the border yesterday as a “grand gesture.” 
Why?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Look, Peter, again, I think her focus of this trip is on
meeting with leaders, having a discussion about how to address
corruption, how to address the root causes, how to work together to
address humanitarian challenges in these countries.  That’s exactly what
she’s doing on the ground, and I’m sure she’ll report back to the
President when she returns.  
  
Go ahead.   
  
Q    I’m going to follow up with the border in a second, but let me ask
you, if I can: On infrastructure, you laid out some of the conversations
that the President is having including, sort of, his message to some of
the Democrats on Capitol Hill right now to, sort of, get a little better
detail there.  Would the President support — does he want Democrats to
more actively pursue the process of reconciliation as an option?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, Peter, I would say that the Democrats are already
moving forward on marking up components of the bill.  And Democratic
leadership has been clear that they want to move forward on
infrastructure and making a historic investment in infrastructure. 
There’ll be a discussion about the mechanics of that, you know, over the
course of the coming days.  And we’ll have more to read out once those
discussions have been had.  
  
Q    So, again, in terms of, like, the timeframe for those decisions to
be made, obviously the message to Democrats is, “Keep going” and “We
might need you”?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, look, I think, to be clear: The President is always
going to continue to pursue opportunity to work with Republicans,
regardless of what mechanics are moving forward in the House.  He’s
going to keep pursuing those opportunities.  And we fully expect that
there will be several pathways that are moving on different channels as
we look to how we’re going to get this American Jobs Plan passed.  
  
Q    As it relates to the border right now, we heard from the Vice
President yesterday where her message was very simple and blunt.  She
said to those migrants who would be considering coming — she said, “Do
not come.”   
  
Obviously, there’s some progressive Democrats, among other critics,
who’ve been frustrated by that — Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez perhaps, most
prominently saying, “It was disappointing to see.”  She said, among
other things, that “seeking asylum at any U.S. border is a 100 percent
legal method of arrival.”  What does the White House say to those
progressive Democrats, among others, who were frustrated by the message
the White House is delivering?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, of course it is.  And one of our focuses and
the priorities of the President and the Vice President is to improve
asylum processing at the border, to work with a range of Democrats —
and, hopefully, Republicans — because, in history, it’s been a
bipartisan effort to get immigration reform passed, to make — ensure
there’s a more viable pathway to citizenship and a better processing at
the border.  
  
What the Vice President was simply conveying is that there’s more work
to be done, that we don’t have these systems in place yet, it’s still a
dangerous journey, as we’ve said many times from here and from many
forums before, and we need more time to get the work done to ensure that
asylum processing is where it should be.   
  
Q    And last question about the Senate report — bipartisan Senate
report as relates to what happened on January 6th.  Obviously, it
addressed the security planning and response failures.  We know that
that’s held up on Capitol Hill right now.  Your reaction to that?  And
what, if anything, more the White House can do as it relates to those
security failures in terms of planning and the like?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, let me just reiterate that of course the events
of January 6th were an assault on our democracy and the rule of law. 
And the President has been outspoken in calling for a full and
independent investigation to what transpired.  
  
As it relates to the report, our team is currently reviewing the report
and its findings to inform our ongoing efforts to ensure something like
that could never happen again and what role, of course, the federal
government can play.  There are many roles, as you know, that the report
seems to surface on what officials on Capitol Hill could do.  And we
want to assess how we can be a good partner in this effort moving
forward.  
  
I would also note that on his first full day in office, he asked his
team to launch a review on how we can improve the federal government’s
response to the threat of domestic terrorism, something he also touched
on when he was in Tulsa last week.  And we’ll be releasing that broader
strategy soon, as well.   
  
Go ahead.   
  
Q    Thank you, Jen.  The FDA has still not cleared the 60 million
AstraZeneca doses that are part of the President’s commitment to share
80 million doses overseas by the end of June.  Is there any concern that
the administration will not get that approval from the FDA in time?  And
if that were the case, will the U.S. then make up for those 60 million
doses with other available vaccines in order to meet the President’s
deadline of the end of June?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, we, as you know, can’t predict or expedite the
timeline here.  It’s the FDA who will make that decision about when
those doses will be approved, if and when they will be approved.   
  
We do remain committed to ensuring that we meet our commitment of 80
million doses — getting those out to the global community by the end of
June — which is, again, five times more than any other country and 13
percent of our own supply.  It’s only June 8th, so we have quite a bit
of time.  But we remain committed to that.  And obviously if the FDA
approves AstraZeneca doses, then that will be a component of that
supply.   
  
Q    And just, as the pooler, a question on behalf of our colleagues at
The Canadian Press, as well as Global News.  On the timeline for
reopening the U.S.-Canada border: Canada has said it will look to take a
phased approach.  Does the White House see an announcement happening in
concert, or is the U.S. prepared to ease those restrictions on its
own?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, again, we would make a decision about the Canada
border based on the guidance of our health and medical experts.  And I’m
sure that when that decision is made, we would communicate through
diplomatic channels.  But I don’t have anything to predict about the
timeline.  
  
Go ahead, Mara.   
  
Q    Thank you.  You’ve mentioned how long the President has spent in
the Senate.  He’s talked himself about how timing and sequencing things
are really key to presidential leadership.  Does he have an objection to
starting with H.R.4 instead of H.R.1?  In other words, why not do the
John Lewis Act first?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I think he is quite open to what Democratic leadership feels
is the viable path forward, and we’ll work closely with them in
coordination.  
  
Q    But there’s a difference of opinion on that — on what would be the
best one to go forward.  Democratic leadership is (inaudible).  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We’re not going to be — we’re not going to be the arbiters
of that, but we will discuss with them.   
  
Q    You’re leaving that to them.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We will discuss with them as we — as we look ahead what the
right path forward is.   
  
Q    Okay, and my second question, just on infrastructure: In terms of
the people he’s speaking to this afternoon, will one of them be Mitt
Romney?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t — we will give readouts of who he’s spoken with once
we’ve completed those calls.  But I don’t have anything to preview for
you at this moment.  
  
Q    Has he ever spoken to Mitt Romney?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Has he ever spoken time in his life?  
  
Q    Yeah, since he’s been President.  No, since he’s been President.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  You know, it’s a good question.  He’s spoken with a number
of Republicans.  As you know, we don’t read them all out.  I don’t have
anything to read out for you, but he has, obviously, in different
circumstances, has had (inaudible).  
  
Q    In terms of these different paths and different groups, this group
that he’s going to talk to —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — this afternoon, is this the first time that he’s starting to,
kind of, reach out to them?  He’s been really focusing on Capito up
until now.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  That’s right.  We’ve been engaged with a range of Democrats
and Republicans, including members who have been in conversation through
this group at a staff level.  He’s obviously had discussions with a
number of them about how he moves his ideas forward.  So I wouldn’t make
it as firm as a first time.  But certainly discussing this as a viable
path forward at his level, at this point in the process, you know, would
be an indication of how we see this as a viable path.  
  
Go ahead, (inaudible).  
  
Q    Yeah, just to follow up on the question on voting rights, you said
yesterday that we will stay lockstep with the Democratic leadership on
that path forward.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    And what Pelosi said in her letter today is that the H.R.4 is not
going to be ready until the fall.  So are you — and to focus — just to
focus effort on the Senate passing H.R.1.  So are you okay with that
kind of timeframe, if that — even if that means that basically this
issue languishes until the fall?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, we don’t see it as languishing.  Obviously, the
President has asked the Vice President to lead this effort.  And I’ll
give you a bit of an update that, in addition to, of course, engaging
with federal efforts on the federal level to move legislation forward,
she’s also going to use the power of the White House to convene key
stakeholders.  And she’ll be hosting several events next week when she
returns from her trips — just to give you an indication of how quickly
and how focused we will be on these efforts.  And she’ll fight for our
key bills and also to register voters under the President’s historic
executive order, as well as advocate for Democratic principles.  
  
So, I will say, we’re going to work, of course, with Democratic
leadership on both — on both, even with their disagreements about the —
the — what the order of events should be here.  But we’re not going to
wait for that.  We’re going to use the White House as a convener.  We’re
going to use the bully pulpit.  Obviously, when the President was in
Tulsa just last week, he talked about voting rights very passionately
and forcefully.  
  
I’ll also note that we’re also continuing to work to implement the
executive order that the President signed into law early on in his
administration, and that executive order uses every authority available
to make voting easier, more accessible, and more fair.  It directs
agencies to expand access to voter registration and election
information, assist states under the National Voter Registration Act,
improves and modernizes Vote.gov, increases federal employees’ access to
voting, analyzes barriers to voting for people with disabilities,
increases voting access for duty — active-duty military and other voters
overseas.   
  
So I would just note that we are not relying on just one option here. 
Of course, federal legislation is something he will continue to press
for, but we’ll use the bully pulpit, we’ll use our convening power,
we’ll continue to press through on implementing this executive action as
well.  
  
Q    On a separate issue — there was a report this morning about,
basically, IRS records showing that very wealthy Americans have evaded
paying income tax, almost altogether in certain circumstances.  One, do
you have any reaction just to that as a factual matter?  And, two, are
you concerned about that just from a leak standpoint?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, let me take the second part first because I think
that’s important.  Any unauthorized disclosure of confidential
government information by a person with access is illegal, and we take
this very seriously.   
  
The IRS commissioner said today that they are taking all appropriate
measures, including referring the matter to investigators.  And Treasury
and the IRS are referring the matter to the Office of the Inspector
General — the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration, the
FBI, and the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of Columbia, all of
whom have independent authority to investigate.   
  
So, obviously we take it very seriously.  I’m not going to comment on
specific unauthorized disclosures of confidential government
information.  
  
I can tell you that, broadly speaking, we know that there is more to be
done to ensure that corporations, individuals who are at the highest
income are paying more of their fair share, hence it’s in the
President’s proposals, his budget, and part of how he’s proposing to pay
for his ideas.   
  
April, go ahead.  And, sorry, I’ll come back to you.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    I want to — I want to follow back up on voting rights — on matters
of voting rights.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  
  
Q    This President has based his administration on equity and
equality.  And now the issue of voting rights is in our face.  We are
voting without the full protections of the 1965 Voting Rights Act
because of Shelby v. Holder, but it’s also unraveling because of
states.  And the person that seems to be holding it up is Joe
Manchin.   
  
Is the President planning to specifically speak with him about voters —
not including it with infrastructure or anything — is he planning on
speaking with him specifically on voting rights, particularly after this
morning’s virtual meeting with civil rights leaders who say the
conversation will continue?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, let me say that it was encouraging to see
Senator Manchin meeting with civil rights groups today. The meeting
shows that both are serious and recognize the importance of the issue. 
We certainly know the seriousness that many civil rights groups take
with voting rights and the importance of moving this forward.  And as
indicated in both of their readouts, as you said, April, they will
continue the discussion.  
  
I would certainly expect that when the President has a conversation with
Senator Manchin the next time, they’ll talk about voting rights.  And —
but often when he speaks with members, he talks about a range of issues
— some where you work together; some where you disagree.  
  
Q    So, understanding the history of how presidents decide to lean in,
he’s got Vice President Harris putting this in her portfolio.  But when
will the President begin to lean?  And is there a moment where he has
to, himself, lean in on this?  Because if it doesn’t happen before the
next elections, it looks like it could be a done deal.  Voting rights
are (inaudible).  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, April, you were with the President in Tulsa last
week.  Right?  
  
Q    Yes.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  You heard how passionately he spoke about voting rights, how
central this is to how he views his presidency, his leadership, the
future of our democracy.  I mean, that was central to the message he
delivered in a speech that was widely covered, that was reflecting on a
moment in history that hasn’t requi- — it hasn’t been given the
attention that it certainly deserves.   
  
I certainly would not say we’re waiting.  As I noted, we’re going to
continue to press for federal action, for action to move forward on a
bill that the President would love to sign into law.   
  
We certainly know we can’t do that with a magic wand. That’s not how
democracy works for good reason.  But the President also signed this
executive action early on — a very expansive and powerful executive
action — because he wanted to — did not want to delay a moment in
ensuring that we were taking more steps to assist states, to improve and
modernize Vote.gov, to increase federal employees’ access to voting, to
analyze barriers to voting for a range of people.  And that was an
action he took early on.  We’re continuing to implement now.  
  
And I’ll also note that the Vice President asking his Vice President —
his partner — to play a role in leading this — something that she also
asked for, just to be clear — asked to do — it sends a message about
what a priority this is to the President.  They have regular lunches. 
They engage — she’s the first in the room and the last in the room.   
  
And she’s going to not hesitate either — not delay either, I should
say.  When she comes back from her trip, she’ll be convening people and
she will be elevating these issues as well from her platform.  
  
Q    Thank you, Jen.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead, Weijia.  
  
Q    Thank you, Jen.  The Family Reunification Task Force has reported
that of the about 3,900 children who were separated from their families,
it does not have a confirmed record of reunification for 2,127
children.  Can you explain what that means that they don’t have a record
of reunification?  Does the administration know where these children
are?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, first — as you know, Weijia, from covering this — and
I know another — a number of others have — one of the challenges that
they walked into — or we walked into — is the lack of data.  And that —
we knew that would take some time to ensure that we were handling the
data and handling the reunification process as carefully as possible.   
  
I would note that, through the support of NGOs, 1,779 children were
reunified with their parents in the United States under past court
orders.  Over the last 30 days, through the task force and NGO
coordination, seven additional children were reunited with their fami- —
parents, bringing the total number of reunified children to 1,786.   
  
In terms of where we go from here, I mean, I would certainly point you
to the task force for what their terminology means.  We know there’s a
challenge with data, a challenge with matching that to what we have
access to.  But beyond that, I would certainly point you to Department
of Homeland Security.   
  
Q    So you don’t know if the administration is aware of where these
children are?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  That’s not what I said.  What I said was the Department of
Homeland Security oversees the task force, and I would certainly point
you to them to give you more of a clear definition of exactly what they
mean by “mismatched data” so you have all the information you’re looking
for.  
  
Q    Thank you.  And one more —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Oh, go ahead.  
  
Q    — on the Justice Department.  President Biden has accused his
predecessor of using it as his own personal law firm.  Is he
disappointed that the DOJ is siding with Trump in his claim that he
can’t be sued for defamation for remarks that he made about an alleged
rape case?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, let me say that the President strongly believes
in the independence of the Department of Justice.  We were not consulted
— the White House was not consulted, I should say more specifically — by
the Department of Justice on the decision to file this brief or its
contents.  
  
Q    So does he believe that that independence still exists, even though
the DOJ is defending the former President?  The firewall between —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I’m not sure what you mean by your question.  
  
Q    Does he believe that the DOJ defending the former President in this
case still maintains that independence between the executive branch and
the DOJ?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I think what I was referring to is allowing for the
Department of Justice to make decisions and announcements about ongoing,
you know, court filings and legal actions.  So independence as it
relates to how the — this President views and approaches the Department
of Justice.   
  
Q    But does it upset him?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Does it — I think the President has been pretty clear, as
Weijia started her comment conveying, about his view about the pres- —
his view about his predecessor’s comments, about his predecessor’s
language, and about his predecessor’s approach, and his engagement in
that regard.  
  
Q    So what can he do?  What can he do about it?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t think I have anything more to speak to you on, Brian
— on active litigation.   
  
Go ahead, Josh.  
  
Q    Can I ask — there was a series of web outages this morning —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — that were linked to a company called Fastly.  Is there any
indication that it’s anything other than just failure with that
company?  And specifically, is it a potential national security issue? 
Have you look into whether there’s a potential external group behind
it?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah, Fastly, I know, put out a statement about it.  I don’t
have anything more from the federal government on the leak — on the
outage.  
  
Q    And then pivoting to the G7, the President has talked about the
need to push the G7 to boost vaccine —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — availability overall.  Can you speak to what he’s considering? 
Prime Minister Johnson, for instance, has talked about the need to
vaccinate the world in its entirety by the end of 2022.  Other European
leaders are not going quite so far.  Does the President have a view on
what specific target the G7 should take?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I expect we’ll have more in the coming days, Josh, so
stay tuned.  Jake did say he expected that you all will hear more at the
G7.  I don’t want to get ahead of that too much.   
  
But what I would say is that the United States is — we’re headed into
the G7 in a position of strength, with 64 percent of our adult
population vaccinated; in a position to donate more doses to the world
than any other country around the world.  But we certainly know this
needs to be a global effort, and it will be a discussion at the G7, and
we’ll have more to say in the coming days.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Just one more on infrastructure.  Given the — you know, what
Senator Capito said today to reporters — kind of throwing cold water on
progress between her and the President on talks — would you say the
administration has become more willing to pursue reconciliation to pass
the infrastructure package than maybe a week ago or two weeks ago?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say that there are always — there’s always
been a range of paths to get the President’s bold ideas passed into
law.  He’s having a conversation with Senator Capito this afternoon, as
well as individual conversations with other members who have been
working in a bipa- — bipartisan manner, to see what the path forward
looks like.  And he’s also closely in touch with Democratic
leadership.  
  
So, I’m not here to rule out options, but I’m not here to rule in new
options either.  We’ll have — we’ll have more to say after he has these
calls later this afternoon.  
  
Q    Okay, one more.  The White House said over the weekend it was
unaware of the DOJ gag order on the New York Times.  Can you assure us
that there are no other gag orders on other news organization related to
some of these investigations?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, the Department of Justice has made clear that was
their third and final notification that they were offering.  And that’s
the information they also shared with us.  But they’ve shared it
publicly.  
  
Q    And so there would — to your understanding, there’s no other gag
orders?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  They made clear — they indicated that this was their last
effort — their last notification that they needed to offer.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks.  So I have a question that’s a little infrastructure, a
little climate.  Senator Sheldon Whitehouse was tweeting yesterday,
saying that he was anxious about the future climate-related
legislation.  And he said, “Climate has fallen out of the infrastructure
discussion, as it took its bipartisanship detour.  It may not
return.”   
  
Then he went on to say, “I don’t see the preparatory work for a close
Senate climate vote taking place in the administration.”  Has the White
House reached out to the senator?  And also, does he have cause for
concern on the future of climate-based legislation?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I promise you we are certainly in touch with his team,
and perhaps even on an individual basis as well, but I don’t have
anything to read out for you.  But I can just tell you that we are in
close touch with nearly every member of Congress who is working on these
legislation moving forward.   
  
I will say that — what I would point out to you is that one of the — one
of the pieces we conveyed when — when we put out a statement last week
about how the President could not accept the offer that was put out by
Senator Capito and her group, even though those conversations are
happening in good faith, was the fact that it didn’t do enough to invest
in our clean energy future.   
  
And there are areas of effort that are moving forward.  I mentioned
Senator Wyden’s effort to move forward on clean energy tax credits.   
  
The President views this bill as a jobs bill.  He also believes it’s a
clean energy jobs bill and it has an opportunity to invest in industries
of the future.  So, certainly, it is close to his heart.  It remains an
area he’s committed to and one he will continue to fight for as we have
these discussions moving forward.  
  
Q  And then I just had another on the Vice President visiting the border
or not visiting the border.  Republicans and conservatives are, you
know, going crazy on Twitter, sending pictures —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  They’re worked up.  
  
Q    — sending videos —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I’ve seen it.   
  
Q    — of her interview with Lester Holt, you know, saying, “I’m not…” —
you know, “I’ve not been to Europe, either.”   
  
Does the President think there is a scenario in which she should visit
the border?  And also, the mounting criticism from conservatives, does
that — would that ever factor into a decision to send her down there?  I
mean, don’t they have a point that if she has this task in front of her,
should she not see the — the end cause as well as the root cause of
migration?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, as I said to Peter: At some point, she may go
to the border.  I don’t have any trips to preview for you or predict or
a timeline for that.   
  
But what I would reiterate is that her assignment was to work with
countries and leaders in the Northern Triangle to address root causes,
address corruption, ensure we’re working together to address
humanitarian concerns.   
  
I will say, we’re not taking advice from former President Trump or most
of the Republicans who are criticizing us on this, given they were all
sitting there while we created this problem we walked into, both at the
border and with the movement of migration that has been growing over the
last year.  So, we’re not taking our guidance and advice from them.  But
if it is constructive and it moves the ball forward for her to visit the
border, she certainly may do that.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Yeah, I have two questions on infrastructure.  You said the White
House is moving ahead on all three paths on infrastructure, including
the third path, which was listening to other lawmakers who have ideas —
I believe that’s how you characterized it.   
  
I’m just trying to clarify — and this was asked a little bit earlier: I
mean, are you referring to the bi- — bipartisan group that consists of
Senators Manchin, Sinema, Romney, and Portman?  And if current talks
with Senator Capito and her group don’t progress, is there a point when
you stop negotiating with that group in favor of this other group of
Republicans and Democrats?  Is that how you’d see it working?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say we’ll leave it to them to determine what
groups they may or may not want to join.  But they’re not — it’s not a
closed group.  We would welcome anyone who wants to join that group and
be a part of these discussions moving forward.  And we’ll —  
  
Q    Members of the press?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  — see where it heads.  Members of the press, I’ll leave it
to them to determine.  I think you have to be an elected member of the
Senate.  So, unless that’s your pathway moving forward.  
  
Q    But you are engaging with them though already?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    Okay.   
  
And then my second question is: What specific proposals did the White
House agree to bring down or eliminate in its latest infrastructure
counteroffer that reduced the cost from $1.7 trillion to $1 trillion in
new spending?  Does funding — specifically, does funding for caregiving
remain in the president’s latest offer?  And if it does, I mean, is it
still the $400 billion price tag?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Caregiving remains a huge priority — investing in caregiving
— to the President.  I’m not going to outline any more specific details,
other than to convey that it’s an area that continues to fight for, to
advocate for, and one that he’d like to be signed into law as part of a
package moving forward.  
  
Q    But does that mean it’s not part of what you’re negotiating right
now with Republicans?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  No, that’s not what I said.  I’m not — I don’t have any more
details to outline for you.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
Q    Yes, Jen — sorry.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We’ll go — sorry, we’ll go to you next.   
  
Q    The chief of Russia’s space agency is threatening to pull out of
the International Space Station unless the United States lift sanctions
against two companies that are related to the space station.  What’s the
White House response to that?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  That’s a really interesting question and I didn’t know much
about it before you asked this question, so I’ll probably have to talk
to our national security team.  I will say that working together on
issues of space and issues related to space is one area where we have
worked together, historically, with the Russians on.  And I’d have to
dig more into what those sanctions are for.  I’m not aware of a
consideration of that, but I’ll check with our national security team.  
  
Go ahead, Yamiche.   
  
Q    Thanks so much, Jen.  A follow-up to Weijia’s question: In four
months, the Family Reunification Task Force has reunited about 36
families.  I’m wondering what the White House makes — what the President
makes of the ACLU saying it hopes the government increases that pace? 
Does the President want to see this go faster?  Are there any
explanations for maybe why it needs to go slower?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  We certainly do, as I think any member of the Family
Reunification Task Force would want to as well.  And one of the
challenges has been what we walked into, which was a lack of data or
tracking for a number of these kids that were separated from their
parents when they came across the border over the last few years. 
That’s a huge data challenge.   
  
We’re not going to reconnect them with families where it’s not properly
verified — right? — because we know there’s a history over the last
several years of, you know, kids being connected with pa- — with
individuals who had malintent.   
  
So, that’s a factor, Yamiche.  We wish — of course, everybody wants it
to go faster.  Everybody wants — in this administration, everybody wants
these kids to be reunified with their family members and with verified
family members.  But, you know, we’re working with a challenging issue
related to data that we knew would be the case from the beginning.   
  
Q    Do you think that pace is going to be the pace?  Or do you think it
will get quicker?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I would certainly point you to them — the members of the
task force and the Department of Homeland Security, who are much more in
depth about where the status is, where the challenges are, and what the
holdups are.  And we can certainly invite one of them to come and speak
to you at the appropriate time as well.   
  
Q    And then I wanted to ask about — I know there’s the COVID task
force, but, in some ways, when you look at southern states, they are
lagging, particularly, when it comes to vaccination rates.  I wonder if
the President has any sort of plan specifically targeted to southern
states and whether or not that will impact whether or not he moves back
to 70 percent goal that he set up for July 4th?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, Yamiche, you are right that there are different age
groups, there are different demographic groups, there are different
geographic groups in the country where we haven’t seen the pace as fast
as others.  So, while it’s very high — the vaccination rate — at this
point among seniors, and even pretty high — over 70 percent — for people
40 and older — still young, I will note — it is — it is not where it
needs to be in people under 40 and certain states around the country.  
  
What we’re trying to do and what we just launched this past weekend is
this massive, one-month campaign to incentivize –right? — people getting
vaccinated.  We’re working with the private sector.  We’re going to
barbershops.  We’re working with, you know, donuts and beer and all
sorts of incentives to get young people and people vaccinated who have
been either hesitant, resistant, or just didn’t want to take the step to
get vaccinated.   
  
We’re going to continue charging through the finish line to — in pursuit
of our 70 percent goal.  We’ve seen 13 states meet that goal.  It’s
ultimately up to some — some — these states and some individuals to get
vaccinated to meet it in a state-by-state basis.   
  
Q    And one last question: There are some progressives who are calling
Joe Manchin — Senator Manchin — “the new Mitch McConnell,” saying he’s
an obstructionist, saying that he’s standing in the way of the Biden
agenda.  I wonder what the President makes of that.  Is he worried about
progressives alienating Senator Manchin?  Or does he agree with some of
the things that they’re saying about standing in the way of his
agenda?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Look, I think we’re not going to — we’re going to leave the
name-calling to others.  The President considers Senator Manchin a
friend.  He disagrees with him on voting rights and — and the — the bill
that the senator has expressed he won’t support.   
  
The President will continue to advocate for the importance of that
moving forward and the reasons why that it’s a — it’s important and
vital for our democracy.  But, you know, we’ll continue to seek ways we
can work with Senator Manchin even in — while we have areas of
disagreement.  
  
Q    I just wonder if you think it’s — the name-calling — is it
alienating the senator?  Is it worrisome that you’re hearing Democrats
say that about Senator Manchin, calling him “the new Mitch McConnell”? 
Is that — is that problematic?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  I can’t speak to — to Senator Manchin’s personal — the
personal impact on Senator Manchin.  He’s obviously proud of his
independent streak.  He’s spoken to that, including in an op-ed piece
this weekend.   
  
I also — we also understand the passion that many feel for voting
rights; for the importance of making voting easier, more accessible.  We
share that passion.  So, we understand that manifests itself in lots of
ways.  But, I point you to Senator Manchin if he’s — if he has feelings
hurt.  I suspect he has a stronger backbone than that.   
  
But thank you everyone so much.  Look forward to — I guess I won’t see
you for a while.  Those of you who are coming on the trip, we’ll see you
on the trip.   
  
Q    See you there.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Thanks, everyone.  
  
2:19 P.M. EDT
