---
category: press-briefings
date: '2021-06-17'
modified_time: 2021-06-17 16:16:17-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/06/17/on-the-record-press-call-by-national-security-advisor-jake-sullivan-on-the-presidents-trip-to-europe/
published_time: 2021-06-17 16:16:16-04:00
title: "On-the-Record Press Call by National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan on the\
  \ President\u2019s Trip to Europe"
---
 
Via Teleconference

12:48 P.M. EDT

MS. HORNE:  Thank you, Operator.  Hi, everyone, and thanks for joining
us on short notice.  Today’s call will be on the record, and our speaker
will be National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan. 

Jake, I’ll turn it over to you for some opening comments, and then we’re
happy to take your questions.

MR. SULLIVAN:  Thanks, Emily.  And thanks, everyone, for joining.  The
main purpose here is to get the opportunity to answer some questions. 
But before we get to that, I thought I would just take a couple of
minutes to review, from our perspective, the outcomes of this trip and
where we go from here.

The bottom line is that Joe Biden confidently and skillfully donned the
mantle of leader of the free world on this trip.  The previous president
had ceded that mantle, and this president has now emphatically reclaimed
it.  And as the foundational outcome for the trip, I think that is the
most significant.

But it goes way beyond that.  This was an unusually productive,
substantive set of summits with real, tangible outcomes.  And the
combined impact of those has laid the groundwork for proving out the
case that democracies can deliver for their own people and for people
around the world, as the President discussed on multiple of his stops
during the trip.

I’ll just say a word about five significant areas of progress on this
trip.  The first is action on COVID.  The President both made a historic
and monumental commitment of 500 million — half a billion — Pfizer
vaccines that the U.S. will provide to the 100 lowest-income countries
around the world.  And this also galvanized commitments from the other
G7 members, as well as helped form the core of a broader action plan to
end the pandemic before the end of 2022, which we will now move forward
smartly to execute on, both in terms of securing the production of the
pledged doses, distributing them effectively, and dealing with all the
other aspects of support that are required to end this pandemic. 

The second is convergence among likeminded countries, among the world’s
democracies, on China.  We have — the G7 — embraced a new infrastructure
initiative, Build Back Better World — B3W — that will be a
high-standards, transparent, climate-friendly alternative to the Belt
Road Initiative.

We had NATO tackling China in its communiqué for the first time, truly
taking the security challenge posed by China seriously, and also a
tasking for a new strategic concept that would deal with China where the
last Strategic Concept did not even mention China. 

We have the U.S.-EU Trade Technology Council launched, which will
address a wide range of trade and technology issues, both in terms of
the affirmative agenda between the U.S. and Europe, and also taking on,
in a coordinated fashion, the non-market economic practices that China
has pursued over many years to the detriment of market economies in both
Europe and the United States. 

And, in fact, the G7 spoke to this issue of coordination and alignment
on standing up to countering and pushing back on China’s non-market
economic practices as part of a broader economic competition.

A specific, tangible example of that on this trip was the agreement to
end a 16-year-long dispute between Airbus and Boeing.  And that dispute
— and that agreement involved not just a five-year suspension of tariffs
but, critically, explicit alignment on the U.S. and the EU working
together on inbound and outbound investment related to China’s large
aircraft — large passenger aircraft industry so that the U.S. and the EU
will be working together to protect jobs and protect technology in
Europe and the United States against China’s predatory practices. 

The third major area of progress was delivering for workers and
families, and this Airbus-Boeing deal, I think, is a significant example
of that because, in the end, it will help secure and grow jobs in our
own aviation industry by relaxing the tariffs and by protecting against
predatory competition from China.

And, of course, the G7 agreement on global minimum tax will, once
implemented, provide hundreds of billions of dollars over time into the
U.S. FISC that can be invested in American workers and communities that
currently are being lost because of the race to the bottom on corporate
taxation. 

The fourth area of progress was President Biden and the United States
standing up for our values in an emphatic, affirmative, and positive way
alongside and in chorus with our allies and partners.  This included, of
course, the Atlantic Charter — the new Atlantic Charter that the U.S.
and the UK — Prime Minister Johnson and President Biden — signed in the
opening phase of the trip.  It included the G7 speaking out with one
collective voice on human rights abuses in Xinjiang, as well as making a
series of commitments on forced labor, particularly in those sectors
that are prevalent in Xinjiang.

It included Joe Biden directly challenging Putin on a range of
human-rights-related issues, including the unjust detention of Aleksey
Navalny, the effort to suppress Radio Free Europe/ Radio Liberty, and
then his extensive public comments yesterday about how an American
president has to stand up and speak out on human rights and democracy;
that it is stamped in America’s DNA.  And that put, I think, an
exclamation point on an entire trip centered around placing values back
at the core of America’s foreign policy. 

And then the fifth area was driving progress on cyber.  From the G7
commitments around ransomware, to NATO adopting a new cyber defense
policy for the first time in seven years, to the extensive conversations
as part of the summit yesterday between President Biden and President
Putin on critical infrastructure in particular, we feel like we have
emerged from this trip with a common strategy with our allies, and as
well as having laid down some clear markers with Russia, some clear
expectations, and also communicated to them the capacities that we have
should they choose not to take action against criminals who are
attacking our critical infrastructure from Russian soil.

Cyber also relates to this broader effort at standing up a strategic
stability dialogue that will address arms control, but also touch on
issues related to both cyber and space as we move forward. 

Of course, there were other critical elements to this trip — from the
work that President Biden did with President Macron of France to come to
an agreement around increased funding for NATO for new capabilities
between now and 2030; to his meeting with President Erdoğan of Turkey on
enduring presence in Afghanistan and how we ensure the security of that
presence; to his meeting with President Ramaphosa of South Africa on how
the United States can support vaccine manufacturing on the African
continent; and much more. 

But those five areas in particular, I think, are where we feel like we
made meaningful progress and have set ourselves up from a position of
strength to be able to deal both with the transnational challenges of
our time and with competition with China and Russia on a going-forward
basis. 

So I said I wanted to get to your questions.  I took a little time there
— probably longer than I should have.  But thank you for a hearing the
add on all of that.

Q    Thank you.  Hi, Jake.  I wanted to ask about the NATO discussions
on the Afghanistan withdrawal and the President’s meeting with President
Erdoğan.  Turkey has offered to secure and operate the international
airport provided it receives what its defense minister called political,
financial, and logistical support.

As you also know, the Taliban has issued a statement saying it will
consider any remaining foreign troops, including Turkey’s, to be
occupying forces and will treat them accordingly. 

I wanted to ask how seriously you take the Taliban threat.  And did the
President have any sense of what exactly Turkey would need to fulfill
this task?  And what is the United States and other partners willing to
give in terms of support?

And secondarily, a separate question on the bilat with Turkey: There
didn’t seem to be any give in Turkey’s position on the S-400.  What does
that mean in terms of Turkey’s continuing participation in NATO?  Is
everybody just going to coexist with Turkey operating this system? 
Thanks.

MR. SULLIVAN:  Thanks, Karen.  So, on your first question, President
Biden and President Erdoğan had a detailed discussion of a potential
Turkish mission to secure the airport once the Resolute Support Mission
has ended.  The President and President Erdoğan agreed that they would
work together to make this happen. 

President Erdoğan indicated he would need, as you said, certain forms of
support to do that.  And President Biden committed that that support
would be forthcoming.  President Erdoğan expressed satisfaction with
that, and the two of them tasked their teams just to work out the final
details. 

But the clear commitment from the leaders was established that Turkey
would play a lead role in securing Hamid Karzai International Airport,
and we are now working through how to execute against that. 

Obviously, we take seriously the concern that the Taliban or other
elements in Afghanistan will attack the Western — or the international
presence — diplomatic presence or security presence in and around
Kabul.  That’s why we are putting together a detailed and effective
security plan. 

We do not believe that what the Taliban has said publicly

should or will deter the efforts underway right now to establish that
security presence, which in turn will enable international missions —
diplomatic missions to operate.

On the S-400, they discussed it.  There was not a resolution of the
issue.  There was a commitment to continue the dialogue on the S-400. 
And the two teams will be following up on that coming out of the
meeting.

Q    Actually, Karen asked my question.  But I just wondered if, Jake,
you could elaborate a little bit on what plan B is if the Turks decide
that it’s not going to be in their interest or — to provide the security
there in the end, and how confident you are that that plan can go
forward.  What’s plan B, though, if it doesn’t?

MR. SULLIVAN:  Sure.  We are feeling good about where we are in terms of
the planning with the Turks on this issue.  But, of course, we are
obviously also conducting contingency planning in the event that either
Turkey can’t proceed — although we have every expectation they will — or
can only proceed in a more limited fashion. 

And without going into too much detail at this point because of the
sensitivity of that contingency planning, I will say that it focuses on
security contractors who have extensive experience in both static and
dynamic security in Afghanistan.  And that is what we are looking at as
the alternative. 

We have scoped out what would be necessary to be able to confidently
secure the airport in Kabul.  And we feel that we would have an
alternative, although we are very much focused right now on converting
the President’s commitments to each other — President Erdoğan and
President Biden — into an action plan that sees the Turks taking the
lead at HKIA. 

Q    Hi, Jake.  Thanks for taking this call.  I was wondering, since you
mentioned the G7 countries aligning on China, if you can elaborate a
little bit more if that sort of means now that you had the G7 meeting,
aligning, clearing the decks, meeting with Putin, if that now means you
can go on to a bilateral discussion with President Xi and how you’re
taking that on.

And if you could comment on, specifically, the human rights portion of
that: What concretely will the G7 — the other G7 countries do on forced
labor supply chain issues, since you guys were the first one to take
action?

MR. SULLIVAN:  Yeah, thank you.  So, on the first question, the answer
is that what the President said about there being no substitute for
leader-level dialogue as a central part of why he held the summit with
Putin yesterday also applies to China and to President Xi Jinping.  He
will look for opportunities to engage with President Xi going forward. 

We don’t have any particular plans at the moment, but I would note that
both leaders are likely to be at the G20 in Italy in October.  So I will
leave it at that for now, because I — you know, we’re not coming off of
this trip — the last thing we’re doing on Thursday is planning the next
thing. 

But soon enough, we will sit down to work out the right modality for the
two presidents to engage.  Now, it could be a phone call; it could be a
meeting on the margins of an international — another international
summit; it could be something else. 

So, no decisions have been made on that score.  But the notion that
President Biden will engage in the coming month with President Xi in
some way to take stock of where we are in the relationship and to ensure
that we have that kind of direct communication that we found valuable
with President Putin yesterday, we’re very much committed to that.  It’s
now just a question of when and how.  And we will work through that and
have more to report.

On forced labor, what we — you know, the G7 identified three sectors in
particular: the garment sector; the agriculture sector, with cotton
being one of the aspects of agriculture we’re particularly focused on;
and the polysilicon sector and solar sector. 

So, what we expect is that other G7 partners will look at various forms
of restrictions on goods that are proven to be produced with forced
labor.  The precise form of those restrictions will vary country by
country; the timing on them will vary country by country.  But our
expectation is that we will align in a broad approach to take tangible
action against or related to the supply chains emerging from forced
labor jurisdiction. 

Q    Hi there, Jake.  Thanks so much for doing this.  I had a couple of
questions just about, kind of, some of the more practical results of the
Putin-Biden summit.  I know that there was discussion of sending
ambassadors back.  Can you expand on that?  Are there, sort of, any
talks of having the United States continue to hire local staff in
Moscow?  Any interest in reopening consulates? 

And then a somewhat, I guess, not exactly related question: But there’s
talk about the UN voting and whether or not to keep the last remaining
aid route into Syria open.  And I’m curious if there were discussions on
Syria.  Did you all get any conversations about whether or not — just
essentially where Russia would vote on that particular issue?

MR. SULLIVAN:  Sure, thank you.  So, first, the two presidents agreed
that they would return their ambassadors to capitals.  So, Ambassador
Sullivan will go back to Moscow; Ambassador Antonov will come back to
Washington.  And this is an effort to regularize the diplomatic
engagement following the steps that the United States took in response
to various harmful actions by Russia earlier this year.  So, that has
happened.  That’s point one.

Point two, on the question of locally employed staff in Russia, the two
presidents did discuss it.  President Biden made the point that we each
need effectively functioning diplomatic missions in our respective
capitals in order to manage this relationship, both the difficulties in
the relationship and the areas where we can make practical progress. 

And in that regard, he encouraged President Putin to be practical and
flexible about the implementation of Russian regulations on locally
employed staff.  And President Putin indicated that he would take
measures to ensure that our mission was properly staffed, whether it’s
through some — through the provision of visas for Americans to be able
to fill those roles or through some other adjustment and regulations
within Russia. 

So, the next step on that is that our teams will meet to follow up to
try to work out details so that our mission in Moscow, in particular,
but also throughout the rest of Russia, is not hamstrung.  And President
Putin was forward-leaning in that regard, and we will see how that
translates into actual decisions here and in the weeks ahead. 

On the question — now I’m forgetting what the other — oh, Syria.

Q    On Syria, yes.

MR. SULLIVAN.  Yeah, on Syria.  So, they did have a discussion on Syria,
and in particular, focused on the question of humanitarian access. 
President Biden made the point that you’ve got millions of hungry
people, people in need, in northeast and northwest Syria.  And having
those humanitarian crossings administered by the United Nations,
particularly the one that is currently open and slated for renewal in
July, is vital to ensuring that aid gets to the people who need it. 

President Putin did not make a commitment as to how the Russians were
going to vote on the resolution at the United Nations in July, but it
was a constructive conversation.  And we believe that there is scope for
the U.S. and Russia to work together on a positive outcome so that
resolution gets passed, that crossing gets sustained, and that other
measures to alleviate the suffering of the people of Syria are also
adopted with the U.S. and Russia working together on that issue. 

Q    Hey, Jake.  Thanks so much for doing this.  The President said
yesterday that we’ll find out within the next six months to a year
whether or not there is actually a strategic dialogue that matters with
Russia.  How will you measure progress towards improving U.S.-Russia
relations in the coming months?  And if you don’t see that progress,
what is the alternative? 

And then a quick question as well on the comments that Congressman Kevin
McCarthy made: He said that he believes the President should have used
this summit to “stand up for our national interests.”  And he says,
“Unfortunately, President Biden gave Vladimir Putin a pass.”  I’m
wondering if you have a response to that?  Thanks. 

MR. SULLIVAN:  So, on Representative McCarthy’s comments, I think they
are — his assertion is belied by the voluminous evidence that President
Biden challenged President Putin on a range of issues that the previous
President, who Representative McCarthy supported strongly, gave
President Putin a pass on.

He challenged him on Aleksey Navalny.  He challenged him on Radio Free
Europe/Radio Liberty.  He challenged him on the detained Americans —
unjustly detained Americans in Russia.  He challenged him on Russia’s
harmful cyber activities.  He challenged him on election interference. 

He didn’t side with Putin against the intelligence community on that —
quite the contrary.  And in a number of other areas, President Biden was
clear, direct, straightforward in explaining to President Putin what
American expectations are, what American capabilities are. 

And he indicated that there are areas where we can work together, but he
also was direct in saying if Russia chooses to continue various harmful
activities, harmful to the national interests of the United States, the
United States would take action, would respond. 

So, you heard that publicly from him yesterday, where he was clear and
direct in where he was standing up and pushing back against Putin.  And
what you heard publicly was very much a reflection of what President
Biden conveyed privately over the course of the summit.  So, that’s on
your second question. 

On your first question: There are, I think, three or four different
areas where we will be able to see, in the months ahead, whether
progress is possible or whether we will simply have to take action to
safeguard our interests because progress hasn’t occurred. 

One of those areas is in the cyber domain and, in particular, on
critical infrastructure.  And President Biden passed a list of the 16
sectors of critical infrastructure that are enshrined in Presidential
Policy Directive 21, and indicated that he was particularly focused on
those sectors, in terms of Russia both refraining from state-related
cyber disruptions and preventing cyber disruptions by criminals
operating from Russian soil.  So, that’s one.

Two, whether we actually are seeing tangible progress in the strategic
stability dialogue around arms control and risk reduction measures. 

Three, whether we are seeing progress on regional issues, from
Afghanistan to Syria to Iran. 

And then, four — going back to a previous question — whether or not
practical steps are being taken to ensure that each of our embassies can
operate in a unencumbered, effective way so that we can manage this
difficult relationship in both Washington and Moscow. 

So, those are some of the areas in which we will be able to determine
whether we made progress or not.  And the President was very clear
yesterday that “the proof of the pudding is in the eating”; that we’re
not asserting any kind of “mission accomplished”; that we felt yesterday
was productive, effective in creating a pathway to progress on some of
these hard issues and a clear set of next steps for our two countries to
work on. 

But it by no means is the end of the story; it is the start of the
story.  And how the story ends will unfold here over the course, as he
said, of the next six months to a year. 

And, you know, let me just close on this call with where I started,
which is — and it comes back a little bit to the McCarthy point — which
is, I think — I really do not believe that it is hyperbole to say that
Joe Biden returns from this trip as the clear and the consensus leader
of the free world; that you’ve got the French president, when asked if
America was back, saying, “Definitely.”  You’ve got the leaders of
democracies from both Europe and Asia extremely positive about Joe
Biden’s personal presidential leadership and about American leadership
writ large under his presidency. 

And whether it’s standing with friends or engaging with difficult
competitors like Vladimir Putin, Joe Biden showed throughout this trip
that he is striding across the world stage with confidence and purpose
and a singular focus on defending American interests and values and
those of our allies. 

And so, you know, we just — we really do feel good about it.  It may be
— it’s — these trips, you kind of finish them and you’re like, “All
right, well that’s great.  Now we got work to do.”  And there’s an
enormous amount of work to do, but we’re all ready for it. 

So, sorry to go on for so long at the end, but really appreciate it. 
Thanks, guys. 

MS. HORNE:  All right, thanks, everyone, so much for joining.  That
concludes our call.  Friendly reminder: We are on the record today and
there is no embargo.  Have a good afternoon. 

1:18 P.M. EDT
