---
tags: press-briefings
date: '2021-06-22'
modified_time: 2021-06-22 19:51:35-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/06/22/press-briefing-by-white-house-covid-19-response-team-and-public-health-officials-42/
published_time: 2021-06-22 20:15:00-04:00
title: "Press Briefing by White\_House COVID-\u206019 Response Team and Public Health\_\
  Officials"
---
 
Via Teleconference 

12:35 P.M. EDT

MR. ZIENTS:  Good morning, and thanks for joining us.  We’re joined by
Drs. Fauci, Walensky, and Murthy, who I will turn to in a few moments.  
  
First, today, I want to report on the progress we are making in our
fight to end the pandemic, specifically as it relates to the President’s
goals for July 4th.  
  
In March, on the one-year anniversary of the start of the pandemic and
less than two months after taking office, President Biden provided
Americans an update on the whole-of-government effort he was mobilizing
to defeat the virus and set what, at the time, seemed like an audacious
goal for the country: independence from COVID-19 by July 4th.  
  
The President was clear about what achieving this very ambitious goal
would require.  First, we needed to build on the work we began on
January 20th, taking additional bold steps to make vaccines even more
accessible to all Americans and to further accelerate the pace of
vaccinations.  
  
And second, we needed “every American to do their part.”  He said,
quote, “If we do all this, if we do our part, if we do this together, by
July the 4th, there’s a good chance you, your families, and friends will
be able to get together in your backyard or in your neighborhood and
have a cookout and celebrate Independence Day.”  He said that this would
not mean large events with lots of people together, but rather with
small groups of close friends and family.   
  
Just three months later, look at where we are.  We have succeeded beyond
our highest expectations.  Instead of just small, backyard gatherings,
America is getting ready for a truly historic Fourth of July, with large
celebrations planned in communities across the country.  
  
Here at the White House, we will be celebrating our independence from
the virus with over 1,000 people on the White House lawn — 1,000 of our
nation’s military and frontline workers celebrating how far we have come
as a country in such a short period of time.   
  
And here’s why we are able to do so: Since the President took office,
COVID-19 cases and deaths are down by over 90 percent.  Nearly every
state is open for most activities, and the economy is rebounding
strongly.  
  
Importantly, today I am announcing exciting news.  We have already met
the President’s 70 percent goal for all U.S. adults 30 and older. 
That’s right: For those ages 30 and above, 70 percent have at least one
shot.  
  
We got here because the President treated this as a wartime effort;
built a whole-of-government response to defeat the pandemic; and
mobilized state and local governments, the private and non-profit
sectors, and asked every American to join this fight.  
  
In the past 150 days, we went from not having enough supply to securing
supply — enough supply to vaccinate all Americans and making every adult
eligible for vaccinations months ahead of expectations.  
  
We went from not having enough places to get vaccinated to more than
81,000 convenient vaccination sites.  In fact, today, 90 percent of
Americans live within five miles of a vaccine site.  Tens of thousands
of sites offer walk-in vaccinations, and thousands are open 24 hours a
day on Fridays in June.  
  
And Americans have new tools to find the most convenient vaccination
sites and free transportation to get to and from sites.  
  
We have built an unparalleled, first-of-its-kind, nationwide vaccination
program.  And as a result, we have successfully executed the most
complex, logistical task: administering 300 million shots in just 150
days.  
  
To put that into perspective, at the pace the U.S. was vaccinating
before the President took office, it would have taken 336 days — almost
a year — to get 300 million shots in arms.   
  
Instead of hitting the major milestone of 300 million shots in June, we
would have hit it in December — six months from now.  And America would
have looked a lot different than it does today.  We would have lost more
lives; more people would have gotten sick; and many of our businesses,
restaurants, and schools would still be closed.  
  
The President understood that we did not have a day to waste, and we
have moved at an unprecedented speed.   
  
Importantly, Americans have responded to the President’s call.  More
than 175 million Americans have rolled up their sleeves and gotten at
least one shot, and over 150 million Americans are now fully
vaccinated.   
  
As a result, we are close to achieving two aspirational goals we set for
July 4th.  The first goal was related to the percentage of adults who
have at least one shot by July 4th.  We asked Americans, state and local
governments, and the private sector to help get to 70 percent of all
adults with at least one shot by July 4th.  Sixteen states and the
District of Columbia have already met this goal.   
  
And let’s remember, when the President took office, we were at
approximately 5 percent of adults with one shot.  So, in just five
months, we have been racing from 5 percent to 70 percent.  
  
So, how are we doing?  Today, I want to drill down on the numbers that
show where we have made the most progress and where we have more work to
do.  
  
We set 70 percent of adults as our aspirational target, and we have met
or exceeded it for most of the adult population.  This is a remarkable
achievement.  
  
When we began our vaccination campaign, we prioritized the most
vulnerable.  And it’s clear from the numbers that this strategy has
worked.  Looking at Americans 65 and older — our most at-risk group — we
have more than 87 percent with at least one shot.  Again, 87 percent of
seniors, who tragically accounted for about 80 percent of COVID deaths,
have gotten at least one shot.  And today, nearly 80 percent of people
65 and older are fully vaccinated.  That’s lifesaving progress.  
  
For Americans who are 40 years old and over, 75 percent have received at
least one shot.  For Americans 30 and older, we have met the President’s
goal of at least one shot.  That’s right: We have met the President’s 70
percent goal for all U.S. adults 30 and over.  
  
And based on today’s estimates, we’re on track to hit the 70 percent
target for those age 27 and over once the data for the July 4th holiday
weekend is fully in.   
  
So, as to our goal of 70 percent for all adults, we’re going to hit it
for adults 27 and older.  This is amazing progress and has our country
returning to normal much sooner than anyone could have predicted.   
  
Where the country has more work to do is particularly with 18- to
26-year-olds.  The reality is: Many younger Americans have felt like
COVID-19 is not something that impacts them and they’ve been less eager
to get the shot.  
  
However, with the Delta variant now spreading across the country and
infecting younger people worldwide, it’s more important than ever that
they get vaccinated.  
  
We are working with state and local leaders to reach them.  We think
it’ll take a few extra weeks to get to 70 percent of all adults with at
least one shot, with the 18- to 26-years-olds factored in.  
  
So, to recap: With respect to the first goal of getting at least one
shot to 70 percent of American adults, already we’re at almost 90
percent for 65 and older, over 75 percent for 40 and older, and 70
percent for 30 and older.  
  
We will meet the 70 percent goal for ages 27 and older by end of July
4th weekend, with a few extra weeks needed for the 18- to 26-year-olds
to get vaccinated.  
  
Now, everyone involved in this effort knows, and the President has said
repeatedly: Our work does not stop on July 4th or at 70 percent.  But we
used this aspirational goal to drive progress in a very short period of
time.  It has taken a huge collective effort, and we have made
significant progress.  
  
The second aspirational goal we set was to have 160 million Americans
fully vaccinated by July 4th.  For context, only 3 million Americans
were fully vaccinated when the President came into office.    
  
In just five months, we’ve grown that number from 3 million to over 150
million fully vaccinated Americans.  That represents more than 56
percent of the adult population.  This is important progress across the
country.  And we will hit 160 million Americans fully vaccinated no
later than mid-July.   
  
Throughout the last five months, the President has set goals to rally
the American people behind defeating this virus, with the most important
and most ambitious being to celebrate our independence from the virus on
July 4th — for America to look like America again.  And thanks the
President’s whole-of-government effort and the American people stepping
up to do their part, we are there.   
  
The virus is in retreat in communities across the country.  We are
entering a summer of joy, a summer of freedom.  This is cause for
celebration, and that’s exactly what Americans will be able to do on
July 4th: celebrate independence from the virus.   
  
But we’re not done, because for all the progress we’ve made as a nation,
individuals who are still unvaccinated are still at risk.  We are not
leaving anyone behind in our response.  And we will continue to put
equity at the center of everything we do, to focus on helping at-risk
and hard-hit communities drive up vaccination rates.   
  
We want every American in every community to be protected and free from
fear of the virus.  That’s why we’ll keep working to vaccinate more
Americans across the summer and into the fall.  As I said, we are not
stopping at 70 percent, and we’re not stopping on July 4th.   
  
And as we push to get more Americans vaccinated, we’re also focused on
leading the efforts to vaccinate the world.  We’re in a position to do
so because of our success here at home and because we’ve secured enough
supply — more than enough supply for all Americans.   
  
In the last week alone, we have shipped millions of surplus U.S doses
overseas, including to our neighbors in Mexico and Canada, as well as
Taiwan.  In total, we’ve already committed to sharing 580 million doses,
and we expect to continue to commit more and more to the world over the
summer months as we help lead the fight to end the pandemic across the
globe.   
  
Now to say more about why the progress we are making here at home
matters, let me turn it over to Dr. Fauci.   
  
Dr. Fauci.  
  
DR. FAUCI:  Thank you very much, Jeff.  I’m going to just spend a few
minutes now recapitulating what Jeff said about where we are, where we
want to be, and how we get there, and what the obstacles are.   
  
And can I have the first slide.  
  
As Jeff has said, our aspirational goal for July 4th was 70 percent of
the adult population receiving at least one dose, but that is not the
goal line, nor is it the endgame.  The endgame is to go well beyond
that, beyond July 4th, into the summer and beyond, with the ultimate
goal of crushing the outbreak completely in the United States.   
  
Now, what are one of the main obstacles for that?  Obviously, it’s
under-vaccinated people and under-vaccinated regions of the country,
particularly among the young and, as Jeff said, particularly among
individuals 18 to 26 — although any age of an unvaccinated person is
someone we need to get vaccinated as we concentrate on the younger.   
  
Next slide.   
  
If you take a look, for example — can I have the next slide, please. 
There are 16 states, plus the District of Columbia, have vaccinated
greater than 70 percent; 4 U.S. states vaccinated less than 50.  And so
between them, you have 30 states between 50 and more than 70 percent. 
And those are the individuals that we need to concentrate on.   
  
But let’s take a look at what the challenge is.    
  
Next slide.   
  
If you look at the growing threat of what we’re all concerned about: the
Delta variant.  What do we know about that variant?  The
transmissibility is unquestionably greater than the wild-type
SARS-CoV-2, as well as the Alpha variant.  It is associated with an
increased disease severity, as reflected by hospitalization risk,
compared to Alpha.  And in lab tests, associated with modest decreased
neutralization by sera from previously infected and vaccinated
individuals.  But efficacy, as I’ll get to in a moment, is something
that has held up.   
  
Next slide.   
  
Let’s take a look at the UK, because we have followed the UK in so many
respects, with regard to the B117 Alpha.  But look at what’s happened to
the UK from February to June — i.e., this month.  The gray shading was
the B117 — the Alpha.  Look at how the Delta — in red — completely began
to dominate the isolates throughout the UK, to the point where it’s well
over 95 percent now.  
  
Next slide.  
  
Among whom is this taking place?  The Imperial College of London did a
study in over 100,000 homes, and looked and found that youth were
driving the UK surge, with a fivefold higher positivity among children 5
to 12 and young adults 18 to 24, versus people older than 65 years
old.   
  
Next slide.   
  
Look at what’s happening in the United States.  We seem, as was the case
with B117 — we seem to be following the pattern with the Delta variant,
with a doubling time of about two weeks if you look from the May 8th
with 1.2, to 2.7, to 9.9, and as of a couple of days ago, 20.6 percent
of the isolates are Delta.   
  
Next slide.   
  
Here is now some of the good news and one of our tools.  The
effectiveness of the vaccines — in this case, two weeks after the second
dose of Pfizer-BioNTech — was 88 percent effective against the Delta and
93 percent effective against the Alpha when you’re dealing with
symptomatic disease.   
  
Next slide.   
  
When you look at hospitalizations, again, both the Pfizer-BioNTech and
the Oxford-AstraZeneca are between 92 and 96 percent effective against
hospitalizations.   
  
You put all of these things together, and you come to what we would call
a “self-evident conclusion.”   
  
Next and last slide.  
  
Similar to the situation in the UK, the Delta variant is currently the
greatest threat in the U.S. to our attempt to eliminate COVID-19.  Good
news: Our vaccines are effective against the Delta variant.   
  
Conclusion: We have the tools, so let’s use them and crush the
outbreak.   
  
I’ll hand it now over to Dr. Walensky.   
  
DR. WALENSKY:  Thank you, Dr. Fauci.  And good afternoon, everyone. 
Let’s begin with an overview of the data.  Yesterday, CDC reported 9,816
new cases of COVID-19, and our seven-day average is about 10,350 cases
per day.  This represents a decrease of nearly 18 percent from the prior
seven-day average and is the lowest seven-day average since March 25th,
2020.  
  
The seven-day average of hospital admissions is about 1,790 per day, a
decrease of about 14 percent from the prior seven-day period.  
  
And the seven-day average of daily deaths have also declined to 273 per
day.   
  
These numbers demonstrate the extraordinary progress we’ve made against
a formidable foe.  Thanks to our vaccination programs, we are seeing a
dramatic decline in deaths, hospitalization, and cases.  And we will
continue to vaccinate people across the summer months.  
  
COVID-19 vaccines are available for everyone ages 12 and up.  They are
nearly 100 percent effective against severe disease and death, meaning
nearly every death due to COVID-19 is particularly tragic because nearly
every death, especially among adults, due to COVID-19 is, at this point,
entirely preventable.   
  
This new virus forced too many of our families to accept death as an
outcome for too many of our loved ones, but now this should not be the
case.  As more Americans have rolled up their sleeves to get vaccinated,
we have chipped away at the ability of the COVID-19 virus to cause more
illness and more suffering.  As I’ve often said, this virus is an
opportunist.  As long as there are those who are not vaccinated,
COVID-19 will remain a threat.   
  
CDC continues to follow the prevalence of the Delta variant of COVID-19,
as you’ve just heard.  In the last two weeks, the prevalence of cases
resulting from the Delta variant has doubled to just over 20 percent, as
Dr. Fauci just showed.  
  
This variant represents nearly half of all infections in HHS Regions 7
and 8.  This is concerning but expected, knowing what we do about how
efficiently this variant spreads and by what we saw in the United
Kingdom with this variant.   
  
We know our vaccines work against this variant.  However, this variant
represents a set of mutations that could lead to future mutations that
evade our vaccine.  And that’s why it’s more important than ever to get
vaccinated now, to stop the chain of infection, the chain of mutations
that could lead to a more dangerous variant.   
  
While not everyone with COVID-19 may require hospitalization at the time
of their infection, one of the unfortunate outcomes from COVID-19 is
something known as “post-COVID conditions” or “long COVID.”  Post-COVID
conditions are an umbrella term for the wide range of physical and
mental health problems that occur four or more weeks after being
infected with COVID-19.  Current research suggests that up to 20 percent
of people are reporting post-COVID condition symptoms, but additional
research is needed and is ongoing with funding from NIH and CDC.   
  
Even people who did not have symptoms when they were infected can have
post-COVID conditions.  Symptoms may vary and may include fatigue, brain
fog, headache, loss of smell or taste, dizziness on standing, heart
palpitations, chest pain, difficulty breathing, cough, joint or muscle
pain, depression and anxiety and insomnia.  These symptoms can persist
for weeks or months after first being infected with the virus that
causes COVID-19, or appear weeks after infection.  For some people, they
can be severely debilitating.   
  
A recent study published in MMWR found that two out of three adults who
had COVID-19 and were not hospitalized for their initial illness went on
to have at least one outpatient visit for symptoms — such as chest or
throat pain, shortness of breath, fatigue, and cough — one to six months
after they were initially diagnosed with COVID-19.   
  
The study also found that more than one in three patients had to be
referred to a specialist, such as doctors that specialize in
pulmonology, neurology, cardiology, and behavioral or mental health.  In
other words, even patients who were not hospitalized for COVID-19
infection were commonly referred for additional evaluation for
COVID-19-related symptoms and conditions after their initial illness. 
We have seen post-COVID conditions in people of all ages, and this makes
it even more important for anyone who is eligible to get vaccinated.   
  
There are many benefits of vaccination, including preventing serious
illness — illness and death, but also the kind of long-term effects
associated with post-COVID conditions.   
  
I invite you to visit the CDC website to review new information to help
healthcare professionals in evaluating caring for patients with
post-COVID conditions.  CDC is continuing to work to identify how common
these longer-term effects are, who is the most likely to get them, and
whether symptoms eventually resolve.   
  
Multi-year studies are also on their — underway that will help us better
understand post-COVID conditions and understand how to treat patients
with these longer-term effects.   
  
Thank you, all.  And now, I’ll now turn things over to Dr. Murthy.  
  
SURGEON GENERAL MURTHY:  Well thank you so much, Dr. Walensky.  As you —
Jeff laid out for us, we’ve made remarkable progress in the last six
months to get people vaccinated.  And our work isn’t done yet,
especially among young adults, 18- to 29-year-olds.  Today, I want to
talk about what we’ve been doing to increase our efforts to connect with
them, and to ensure that they know that they can and should get
vaccinated.   
  
First, we focused on connecting directly with students in this age group
through the COVID-19 College Challenge that was launched for the Month
of Action.  Colleges and Universities are now taking part in a pledge to
commit to take action to get their students and communities vaccinated. 
Over 700 colleges and universities have already signed the pledge.   
  
And last week, we launched this Student Community Corps, where students
participate in biweekly calls to learn best practices and hear from
their peers about how they can talk to friends, family members, and
other community members about getting vaccinated.   
  
Second, we’ve also partnered with companies nationwide who are offering
incentives for young people.  This includes major sports leagues, which
are offering discounts and ticket giveaways; Spotify, which has launched
a sweepstakes giveaway for tickets to independent music venues.  It
includes stores that are now offering free items when a customer shows
their vaccination cards.  And, as of today, Walgreens is giving every
person who comes in to get a vaccine between now and July 4th a $25 gift
card.  
  
Third, we also know that misinformation continues to be rampant on many
online platforms that young people visit, which is why we’re meeting
them there with accurate information through trusted messengers about
the COVID-19 vaccine.  We’ve launched media campaigns to reach different
communities with this — within this age group, including our Digital Day
of Action, which reached more than 280 million people across Facebook,
Twitter, and Instagram, plus the celebrity PSAs on more than 850 radio
stations.   
  
We’ve organized Instagram Lives with influencers and a YouTube townhall
where influencers and creators are in conversation with public figures
and doctors, including those of us on this press conference and
President Biden.   
  
And we’re also meeting gamers where they are.  Riot Games has been
airing Vaccine.gov PSAs on their E-game livestreams, and is working on
other ways to connect with young people on video game platforms.   
  
In addition to all of this, we are asking all young people to have
conversations with friends and family members, encouraging their
communities to get vaccinated and actually helping them then get to a
vaccination site, which you can do more easily than ever before, given
how many sites we have and how easy it is to find them at Vaccines.gov,
or by texting your ZIP Code to GETVAX or to VACUNA.   
  
You know, when we look back at our history as a country, it’s clear that
so many of our most meaningful movements for change have been led by
young people, whether it’s the Civil Rights Movement or our original
fight for independence in America.   
  
And this generation of young adults has shown, time and time again,
their incredible energy and power to drive change.  Today, they have the
power to get vaccinated, to help their family and friends get
vaccinated, and to help protect our nation.  I believe they will rise to
the challenge, and we will be there to work with them and to support
them at every step of the way.   
  
Thank you all.  And I’ll turn it back over to Jeff.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Wonderful.  Thank you, Doctors.  Now let’s open it up for a
few questions.   
  
MODERATOR:  Thanks, Jeff.  We only have time for a few questions today. 
But first, we’re going to go to Sharon LaFraniere, New York Times.  
  
Q    Thank you.  Sorry, I had to unmute.  So I’d like to ask what will
happen this winter if there continues to be a solid 20 to 30 percent of
the adults who refuse to get vaccinated?  Could there be a renewed
surge?  Could we even get back up to like 1,000 daily deaths?  Or are
those days behind us?  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Dr. Fauci.  
  
DR. FAUCI:  If there is a persistence of a recalcitrant group that
doesn’t get vaccinated, there will be local type of regional spikes and
outbreaks.  I don’t foresee what we refer to a surge as we have known
it, namely the three major surges that we’ve experienced over the past
year and a half.   
  
I don’t think, even under those circumstances, that you’re going to see
things like 1,000 deaths a day.  I think that is a bit much.  But there
is a danger — a real danger — that if there is a persistence of a
recalcitrance to getting vaccinated, that you could see localized
surges, which is the reason why I want to emphasize what all four of us
have said: All of that is totally and completely avoidable by getting
vaccinated.   
  
So, the very fact that you bring up the question, which means there’s a
reality that that could happen, should hopefully stimulate people to
appreciate that they have, within their own wherewithal, to prevent that
from happening to get vaccinated.   
  
MR. ZIENTS:  And I would just add: With 70 percent of people over 30
already with at least one dose; with 54 percent of Americans — adult
Americans — fully vaccinated, we have a very strong platform to build
off of.  And we’re going to continue to vaccinate millions and millions
more Americans across the coming months.   
  
Next question.  
  
MODERATOR:  Kaitlan, CNN.   
  
Q    Thanks so much for doing this.  Since we’re not going to hit this
goal now of 70 percent with one shot by July 4th, can you say when you
do expect to hit that goal?  
  
And then, secondly, I noticed there’s been a lot of focus on the
milestones that they’ve hit so far.  Should we expect any new goals on
vaccinations going forward from the administration?  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  So, Kaitlan, just to summarize where we are: We’re already
at people ov- — 30 and over, we’re at 70 percent.  By July 4th, we’ll be
over 70 percent for 27 and over.  And within a few weeks, we will be
over 70 percent — 70 percent or over for the whole adult population. 
And then we’re going to continue to drive across the summer and into the
early fall to vaccinate more and more people.   
  
I’ll leave it to the President to set an additional goal.  He’s our
goal-setter, and he’s done a great job at setting aspirational and
ambitious goals that have really driven our success.   
  
SURGEON GENERAL MURTHY:  If I could just add one thing to this and —
thinking of it as just as we do in medicine when we’re taking care of
patients, you know, you pay attention to numbers — like (inaudible)
values and other numbers that are important — but the most important
thing at the end of the day is: How’s the patient doing?  How are they
feeling?  What can they do?  
  
And similarly, when we think about this effort, the most important goal
that we’re focused on is: What can people in our country do as a result
of this vaccination effort?  And there, I think what’s been encouraging
to me and so many of us is that we have actually exceeded where we
thought we would be.   
  
We thought people would be able to get together, have barbecues again if
they were vaccinated.  We are finding now, given the progress we’ve made
thanks to the hard work of people all over this country, that we can not
only do that, but if you’re vaccinated, you can be part of large
gatherings.  You can participate in so much more of life that we have
missed out on over the last year.   
  
So I think it’s just important to keep in mind that the most important
metric at the end of the day is: What are we able to do in our lives? 
How much of “normal” have we been able to recapture?  
  
And I think what we are seeing now is that we have exceeded our
expectations.  That we’ve just got to keep going because, until
everybody is under that umbrella of protection, until everyone has their
way of life back, we’re not going to stop in our vaccination effort.   
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Dr. Murthy, I couldn’t agree more.  We are going to have a
Fourth of July celebration which is beyond everyone’s highest
expectations.   
  
Next question.   
  
MODERATOR:  Let’s got to Nancy Cordes at CBS.  
  
Q    Thank you so much.  I’d love to hear from any of you about how you
came up with the 70 percent goal in the first place.  What led you to
that particular number?  And what do you think is the main thing that
kept you from getting over that finish line?  Did you assume that young
people would get vaccinated in larger numbers than they have?  That
would be great.  Thanks.   
  
MR. ZIENTS:  So, we did that as a team, relying very heavily or
exclusively on the docs and scientists — many of whom are on this
call.   
  
Dr. Fauci, why don’t I turn it to you as to the 70 percent and where we
are relative to Fourth of July and where we’re headed.   
  
Dr. Fauci.   
  
DR. FAUCI:  Yeah.  As some of you may remember, when we were talking
about this concept of herd immunity and I repetitively said, “We don’t
know what that number is, but you can make a reasonable intelligent
estimate that it’s somewhere between 70 and 85 percent.”  Because,
remember, herd immunity is a combination of individuals who are
vaccinated and individuals who are protected from — because of prior
infection.   
  
The lower number of that was 70.  It seemed like a reasonable number to
do.  It was empiric.  I mean, there was no mathematical certainty to it,
but I think most — not “I think” — I know that most of us agreed that
that was quite a reasonable number.  
  
You did say something that’s interesting.  You said “reached the goal
line.”  That’s not the goal line; that’s the aspirational goal.  The
goal line is to completely crush this outbreak, and that’s the endgame
that I showed on my first slide.   
  
So no one should think that when we reach this 70 percent across the
country that we’re done.  We are not done until we completely crush this
outbreak.   
  
DR. WALENSKY:  And maybe just to emphasize the importance of the second
dose.  So, the 70 percent is the first-dose benchmark, but we also want
people to get the second dose for their two-dose vaccines.   
  
MR. ZIENTS:  One more question.   
  
MODERATOR:  Yep.  Zeke, AP.   
  
Q    Thanks for doing this.  For those four states that haven’t even
reached 50 percent of their — of their adult population yet, vaccinated:
Is the White House looking at a different approach to those states?  Is
there — you know, we’ve heard those governors, saying they’re not — you
know, it’s a personal choice for folks who are not quite — you know, is
there a — should we expect to see a different strategy from you all
going forward?  
  
And then, secondly, after July 4th, a lot of these incentive programs
run out.  To Dr. Walensky’s comment that, sort of, every COVID death at
this point is preventable, at a — you know, is the White House going to
phase out its promotional campaign to drive people to vaccinate —
vaccinations if at this point, you know, you’re throwing a lot of, you
know — million — you know, the chance of winning the lottery at folks,
and they’re still not getting vaccinated.  Is that all going to go away
and — if this is obviously people’s personal choices?  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Zeke, this is — this intensity that you’ve witnessed across
the last five months is going to continue for the foreseeable future
until all Americans can get vaccinated.   
  
So we will continue to meet people where they are — mobile clinics,
doctors’ offices, pharmacies.  They’ll continue to make it even easier
and more convenient for people to get vaccinated.   
  
People have questions about the vaccines, and we want to make sure that
we’re ask- — answering those questions, addressing those questions at
the local level — through doctors, through faith leaders, through
trusted messengers at the local level.   
  
So we’re not — we’re not slowing down at all.  If anything, we’re
speeding up, as Dr. Fauci has talked about, until we crush this
disease.  And we’ll continue to do everything we can to get as many
Americans vaccinated as possible.   
  
Dr. Murthy, anything to add there?  
  
SURGEON GENERAL MURTHY:  I think that’s exactly right, Jeff.  And, Zeke,
our approach and what we’ve learned over these past, you know, many
months is that we have to go more and more and more local as this
vaccination effort proceeds.  It is through the one-on-one
conversations, it’s through making access even easier and readily
available to people that we’re going to reach more folks.   
  
And we’ll continue to support states and local counties and city health
officials in their effort to get people vaccinated.  We’re not going to
let up.  I know July 4th has been an important deadline, but this
continues long after July 4th.  We’re not going anywhere.  That’s for
sure.    
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Well, thank you, everybody.  Thank you for joining the
briefing, and we’ll look forward to seeing you at the next one.  Thank
you.  
  
1:11 P.M. EDT

To view the COVID Press Briefing slides,
visit <https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/06/COVID-Press-Briefing_22June2021_for-transcript.pdf>
