---
date: '2023-10-12'
modified_time: 2023-10-11 18:20:47-04:00
published_time: 2023-10-12 09:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/blog/2023/10/12/investing-in-america-to-create-fair-and-competitive-markets/
tags: blog
title: "Investing in America to Create Fair and Competitive\_Markets"
---
 
*Heather Boushey, Chief Economist, Investing in America Cabinet*

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## **Introduction**

Promoting fair competition is a key pillar of
[Bidenomics](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/06/28/bidenomics-is-working-the-presidents-plan-grows-the-economy-from-the-middle-out-and-bottom-up-not-the-top-down/),
along with investing in America and empowering workers. Competition is
the
[backbone](https://www.whitehouse.gov/cea/written-materials/2021/07/09/the-importance-of-competition-for-the-american-economy/)
of a market economy; it supports lower prices, higher quality goods and
services, greater variety, and more innovation. Accordingly, President
Biden has pushed for a whole-of-government approach to identify and
address barriers to healthy competition wherever they appear, starting
with an [Executive
Order](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/07/09/executive-order-on-promoting-competition-in-the-american-economy/)
in the early months of the Administration, which created the [White
House Competition Council](https://www.whitehouse.gov/competition/) and
identified 72 actions agencies could take to increase competition.

As the Biden-Harris Administration implements its [Investing in America
agenda](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/07/Economics-of-Investing-in-America.pdf),
which includes the American Rescue Plan, Bipartisan Infrastructure Law,
the CHIPS and Science Act, and the Inflation Reduction Act, there is a
pivotal role for attention to competition. Just as regulations shape
competition in existing markets, regulation and government investment
can shape new and developing markets as well. By considering the
promotion of competition in our investments, we can shape industries to
be pro-competitive from the beginning so that there is no need to
“[unscramble the
eggs](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0167718711000233)”—to
unwind highly concentrated industries after the fact. Similarly, the
economic literature shows how industrial
[policies](https://www.nber.org/papers/w31538) that foster
[competition](https://www.aeaweb.org/articles?id=10.1257/mac.20120103)
and invest in strategic
[industries](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0921800921003645)—while
also “[weeding
out](https://drodrik.scholar.harvard.edu/files/dani-rodrik/files/industrial-policy-dont-ask-why-ask-how.pdf)”
projects that fail—can support economic growth. A robust competition
policy complements our historic investments in America to develop
mature, innovative industries that are competitive on a global scale.

To this end, the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) released [new
guidance](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/10/RegulatoryCompetitionGuidance.pdf)
yesterday to help agencies developing Federal regulations better assess
their potential effects on competition. In light of OMB’s new guidance,
this blog describes the central role for competition in industrial
strategy and how regulation can help shape fair and resilient markets
for critical goods.

## Competition and Industrial Strategy

The pillars of Bidenomics work together: for example, investments in
America are designed to be pro-competitive, and pro-competitive policies
are designed to support investment. Through his Investing in America
agenda, the President is investing in new and rapidly growing
industries, including the domestic manufacturing of clean energy
technologies and semiconductors, and working to ensure those markets are
competitive and fair.

Promoting healthy competition in these industries is best accomplished
by proactively shaping markets to be fair from the outset.
[Anticompetitive](https://equitablegrowth.org/market-power-in-the-u-s-economy-today/)
markets dominated by a few (or one single firm) can stifle
[innovation](https://www.journals.uchicago.edu/doi/full/10.1086/705642#_i16)
and prevent good ideas and products from [reaching the
market](https://www.journals.uchicago.edu/doi/10.1086/712506). On the
other hand, the use of pro-competitive
[policies](https://www.aeaweb.org/articles?id=10.1257/mac.20120103) to
shape markets—for instance, enabling market entry by innovative new
enterprises or facilitating competition between firms to constantly
improve—helps to maximize the benefits from the President’s investments
in foundation infrastructure and strategic industries.

Making sure that
[larger](https://www.aeaweb.org/articles?id=10.1257/pol.20190086)
[competitors](http://neconomides.stern.nyu.edu/networks/Gabel_competition_in_a_network_industry.pdf)
do not wall off key infrastructure is vital for promoting competition,
and for allowing smaller entrants to eventually scale. The Investing in
America agenda supports infrastructure investment, which is essential
for maintaining competition in the economy. For example, investments in
[airports](https://www.faa.gov/bil/airport-infrastructure),
[bridges](https://www.fhwa.dot.gov/bipartisan-infrastructure-law/bip_factsheet.cfm),
and [municipal bus fleets](https://www.transit.dot.gov/bus-program),
such as those included in the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, are
important for [enabling competitive
industries](https://www.jstor.org/stable/3590239) here at home. These
projects ensure that goods and services can be transported efficiently,
which lowers costs and encourages [new suppliers to enter the
market](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/1468-0351.00005).

The Administration is empowering the market to identify the most
efficient clean energy technology for every application, rather than
investing in one or two technologies or picking specific “national
champion” firms. Many of the Administration’s investments in the
Investing in America agenda are sector-based, meaning they invest in
specific needs of the economy rather than individual companies or
technologies. For example, the Inflation Reduction Act’s Clean
Electricity Production Tax Credit and Clean Electricity Investment Tax
Credit allow electricity production from a
[multitude](https://www.epa.gov/green-power-markets/summary-inflation-reduction-act-provisions-related-renewable-energy)
of different clean energy sources. Starting in January 2025, any energy
project that produces zero greenhouse gas emissions is eligible for the
credit, whether using wind, solar, hydroelectric, or some other energy
source. Tax credits like these are powerful tools in part because they
do not
[pick](https://drodrik.scholar.harvard.edu/files/dani-rodrik/files/industrial-policy-twenty-first-century.pdf)
[winners](https://drodrik.scholar.harvard.edu/files/dani-rodrik/files/industrial-policy-dont-ask-why-ask-how.pdf)
within an industry. Unlike industrial targeting and other distortive
economic policies and practices, such as those from the Chinese
government, they allow consumers to make the ultimate choices while
encouraging manufacturers to compete against one another. More
competitive U.S. manufacturers also means that consumers around the
world have more options to choose from.

In other cases, the goal of the Administration’s investments is to solve
coordination problems. Case in point: in order to build the capacity to
deliver the clean energy the United States needs, the Investing in
America agenda seeks to create new regional
[clean](https://liftoff.energy.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/05/20230523-Pathways-to-Commercial-Liftoff-Clean-Hydrogen.pdf)
[energy](https://www.energy.gov/oced/regional-clean-hydrogen-hubs)
[hubs](https://www.energy.gov/articles/biden-harris-administration-announces-12-billion-nations-first-direct-air-capture).
Companies in the same industry or supply chain often cluster in local
areas and cities. For example, many auto parts manufacturers are
[located
near](https://academic.oup.com/cjres/article-abstract/3/3/335/495875)
final auto assembly plants. These arrangements not only [lower
transportation
costs](https://www.nber.org/system/files/working_papers/w20235/w20235.pdf),
but also [actively
encourage](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0094119017300013)
[entry](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0094119009000862)
by new firms, who have an easier time accessing customers and input
suppliers. For new industries, however, it may be difficult for the
private sector to arrange such clusters on its own due to a classic
“chicken-and-egg” problem: the cluster is necessary for a [variety of
firms to succeed](https://liftoff.energy.gov/), but each party needs the
others to establish themselves first. Government investment can help
coordinate the creation of hubs to overcome these challenges, and
additional bonuses for projects using domestically-manufactured inputs
or located in energy communities can further incentivize these clusters.

## Competition and Regulatory Policy

Simultaneously, the Administration is seeking to ensure that regulations
complement the Administration’s investments and support fair and
resilient markets.

Regulations can enhance competition. Earlier this year, the Federal
Highway Administration
[outlined](https://highways.dot.gov/newsroom/biden-harris-administration-announces-latest-steps-deliver-national-network-convenient)
[standards](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/02/15/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-new-standards-and-major-progress-for-a-made-in-america-national-network-of-electric-vehicle-chargers/)
for electric vehicle chargers funded by the Bipartisan Infrastructure
Law, including requirements that the chargers have consistent plug types
and power levels. Additionally, digital applications that support these
charging stations must list the location, price, availability, and
accessibility of chargers on a map, with a single app and account that
must work for all chargers. These standards support fair competition in
the electric vehicle market by enabling consumers to make choices based
on the quality and price of the vehicle, not based on access to
proprietary charging networks.

OMB’s new guidance provides regulators with resources for considering
competition effects when designing and evaluating new regulations.
Federal agencies have long been
[required](https://crsreports.congress.gov/product/pdf/IF/IF12058) to
assess the benefits and costs of certain proposed regulations to ensure
that they serve the public interest. The new guidance on competition,
which elaborates on [existing
guidance](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/legacy_drupal_files/omb/circulars/A4/a-4.pdf),<a href="#_ftn1" id="_ftnref1">[1]</a>
encourages regulators to consider important questions such as how
competitive the regulated market already is, whether new regulation
would affect the number of firms in the market, and how the regulation
could affect competition in the [labor
market](https://www.janeeckhout.com/wp-content/uploads/29.pdf).

The goal of the new guidance is not to overemphasize potential effects
on competition, but rather to promote a baseline understanding regarding
how and when these effects can emerge. Agencies can then apply their own
extensive expertise to assess the relevance and importance of these
potential competitive effects to a given proposed rule.

## Conclusion

Promoting competition is essential for ensuring effective implementation
of the President’s economic agenda. In tandem with
[historic](https://home.treasury.gov/news/featured-stories/unpacking-the-boom-in-us-construction-of-manufacturing-facilities)
private-sector
[investments](https://www.whitehouse.gov/invest/?utm_source=invest.gov)
in America, agency rulemaking will play a critical role in shaping new
markets. This new guidance provides Federal agencies with a toolkit for
evaluating how proposed regulations may impact the competitive nature of
a market—ensuring that the regulatory review process is informed by the
best economic evidence.

By supporting agencies in considering the potential competitive effects
of these rules, the new guidance helps to ensure that every investment
made in the economy generates the maximum benefit for all Americans.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

<a href="#_ftnref1" id="_ftn1">[1]</a> The central guidance for
analyzing the benefits and costs of regulations, known as Circular A-4,
is currently under revision for the first time since it was written in
2003.
