---
date: '2023-10-23'
modified_time: 2023-10-20 16:23:04-04:00
published_time: 2023-10-23 08:30:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/blog/2023/10/23/bidenomics-in-action-clean-energy-jobs-and-investments-taking-hold-across-america/
tags: blog
title: "Bidenomics in Action: Clean Energy Jobs and Investments Taking Hold Across\_\
  America"
---
 
*Heather Boushey, Chief Economist, Investing in America Cabinet*

------------------------------------------------------------------------

New analyses of data from the Department of Energy, the Quarterly Census
of Employment and Wages (QCEW), and the U.S. Energy Information
Administration show clean energy job growth and record investments in
the clean power sector since President Biden took office and enacted his
Investing in America agenda—a key pillar of Bidenomics, the President’s
economic plan to grow the economy from the middle out and bottom-up.

Strong investment in clean power generation and supply is critical to
meeting President Biden’s goals of building the clean energy economy
with high-quality job opportunities for American workers and addressing
the climate crisis. Since the start of the Biden-Harris Administration,
private companies have announced plans for about 94 GW of new clean
power generation projects, representing an estimated [$133
billion](https://www.whitehouse.gov/invest/?utm_source=invest.gov) in
investment as of August 2023 (Figure
1).<a href="#_ftn1" id="_ftnref1">[1]</a> These announced investments in
specific generation projects are a subset of a larger boom across
American clean energy supply chains, including more than $70 billion of
new investments in clean energy manufacturing and infrastructure.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/10/figure1.png?w=640"
class="wp-image-86113" decoding="async" loading="lazy"
sizes="(max-width: 1928px) 100vw, 1928px"
srcset="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/10/figure1.png 1928w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/10/figure1.png?resize=615,368 615w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/10/figure1.png?resize=768,459 768w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/10/figure1.png?resize=1270,759 1270w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/10/figure1.png?resize=1536,919 1536w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/10/figure1.png?resize=535,320 535w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/10/figure1.png?resize=1070,640 1070w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/10/figure1.png?resize=1038,621 1038w"
width="1928" height="1153" />
</figure>

These investments have spurred strong job growth. Between January 2021
and March 2023, the economy added 21,000 jobs in power generation and
supply, reaching its highest level in more than a decade following a
prolonged decline in employment in the industry (Figure
2).<a href="#_ftn1" id="_ftnref1">[2]</a> Notably, more than half of
these job gains occurred between August 2022 (when the Inflation
Reduction Act and the CHIPS and Science Act—critical pieces of the
President’s Investing in America agenda—were signed into law) and March
2023.

These job gains were driven by increased employment in electricity
transmission and distribution and increased clean electric power
generation. Between January 2021 and March 2023, the economy added
11,000 jobs in electric power transmission and distribution, 8,000 jobs
in solar power generation, 2,000 jobs in wind power, and 1,000 jobs in
hydroelectric power. Figure 3 depicts the percent change in employment
in power generation, disaggregated by generation technology.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/10/figure2.png?w=640"
class="wp-image-86117" decoding="async" loading="lazy"
sizes="(max-width: 2078px) 100vw, 2078px"
srcset="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/10/figure2.png 2078w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/10/figure2.png?resize=615,383 615w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/10/figure2.png?resize=768,478 768w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/10/figure2.png?resize=1270,791 1270w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/10/figure2.png?resize=1536,956 1536w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/10/figure2.png?resize=2048,1275 2048w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/10/figure2.png?resize=514,320 514w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/10/figure2.png?resize=1028,640 1028w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/10/figure2.png?resize=2056,1280 2056w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/10/figure2.png?resize=1038,646 1038w"
width="2078" height="1294" />
</figure>

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/10/Figure3.png?w=640"
class="wp-image-86118" decoding="async" loading="lazy"
sizes="(max-width: 2052px) 100vw, 2052px"
srcset="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/10/Figure3.png 2052w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/10/Figure3.png?resize=615,406 615w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/10/Figure3.png?resize=768,507 768w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/10/Figure3.png?resize=1270,838 1270w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/10/Figure3.png?resize=1536,1014 1536w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/10/Figure3.png?resize=2048,1351 2048w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/10/Figure3.png?resize=485,320 485w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/10/Figure3.png?resize=970,640 970w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/10/Figure3.png?resize=1940,1280 1940w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/10/Figure3.png?resize=1038,685 1038w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/10/Figure3.png?resize=114,76 114w"
width="2052" height="1354" />
</figure>

While the QCEW provides relatively timely data on job gains in specific
energy industries, other data sources are necessary for a full picture
of all energy-related jobs, including those in manufacturing and
construction industries. The Department of Energy’s latest [U.S. Energy
and Employment
Report](https://www.energy.gov/sites/default/files/2023-06/2023%20USEER%20REPORT-v2.pdf)
(USEER), which uses data from 2022, includes a more complete definition
of energy jobs,<a href="#_ftn1" id="_ftnref1">[3]</a> and provides
geographic and demographic breakdowns of energy employment. (USEER data
from 2023 will be released in mid-2024.)

There are three main takeaways from the latest USEER report. First, when
looking beyond power generation at the full range of clean energy jobs,
the Department of Energy found that clean energy job growth outpaced job
growth in the energy sector overall. Nationwide in 2022, clean energy
jobs grew by 114,000 (3.9 percent) to 3.1 million jobs, compared to
300,000 jobs added (3.8 percent growth) in total energy-sector jobs.
Clean energy jobs accounted for 40 percent of overall energy
jobs.<a href="#_ftn2" id="_ftnref2">[4]</a> Within certain energy
technologies, clean energy jobs saw particularly strong gains. For
example, transmission, distribution, and storage jobs associated with
clean energy increased by 4.0 percent, outpacing the 2.2 percent growth
seen in transmission, distribution, and storage jobs as a whole.

Notably, clean energy employment increased in all 50 States and the
District of Columbia in 2022 (Figure
4).<a href="#_ftn3" id="_ftnref3">[5]</a> Some states saw particularly
large gains, with West Virginia, Oklahoma, and New Mexico leading clean
energy job growth. Including traditional transmission and distribution,
clean energy jobs in West Virginia increased 19.3 percent, while clean
energy jobs increased by 9.1 percent in both New Mexico and Oklahoma.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/10/figure4-1.png"
class="wp-image-86127" decoding="async" loading="lazy"
sizes="(max-width: 1080px) 100vw, 1080px"
srcset="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/10/figure4-1.png 1080w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/10/figure4-1.png?resize=615,482 615w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/10/figure4-1.png?resize=768,602 768w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/10/figure4-1.png?resize=408,320 408w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/10/figure4-1.png?resize=816,640 816w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/10/figure4-1.png?resize=1038,814 1038w"
width="1080" height="847" />
</figure>

Second, while women have long been underrepresented in the energy
sector, 2022 saw progress as women accounted for over half of net energy
jobs added, experiencing a 7.8 percent gain in employment over the year.
As a result, the share of workers in the energy workforce who are women
ticked up from 25 percent to 26 percent. In electric power generation,
women’s employment grew by 65 percent; the Department of Energy
attributed this to several likely factors, including an economy-wide
increase in labor force participation for women and growth in industries
such as professional and business services that are more likely to hire
women.

Finally, the USEER data shows that energy sector employers are seeing
the benefits of strong unions. Energy employers with unionized
workforces reported substantially less difficulty hiring workers than
non-unionized employers. According to the report, this may be in part
because they invest in registered apprenticeship programs, which ensure
a continuous pipeline of skilled and trained workers. Additionally,
unionized workforces were more likely to have policies about recruiting
from communities of color or women. Energy workers continue to be more
likely to be covered by a union contract when compared to the private
sector workforce as a whole. In 2022, 11 percent of workers in the
energy sector were represented by a union or covered by a project labor
or collective bargaining agreement, compared to 7 percent in the private
sector overall.

The President understands that to grow the economy from the middle out
and the bottom up, it is essential to invest in America—the first pillar
of Bidenomics—by supporting critical industries like clean power
generation. That is why the President has signed into law the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law and the Inflation Reduction Act, unlocking historic
investments in infrastructure, clean energy, domestic supply chains, and
more. In order to implement this legislation successfully, and to ensure
the economic growth is equitably distributed, it is also necessary to
create good jobs and empower workers—the second pillar of Bidenomics.

The latest data on private sector investment and employment in power
generation speak to the President’s success with both pillars—investing
in America and empowering workers. Moving forward, the President’s
investments are likely to support additional innovation and job growth
in the energy sector.

The Administration’s ongoing push to create [high-quality
jobs](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/blog/2023/09/29/good-jobs-and-unions-will-help-build-our-workforce/),
such as through incentives for [fair
wages](https://www.dol.gov/agencies/whd/IRA), support for
[unionization](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/03/17/the-white-house-task-force-on-worker-organizing-and-empowermentupdate-on-implementation-of-approved-actions/),
and training and recruitment
[pipelines](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/05/16/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-strategies-to-train-and-connect-american-workers-to-jobs-created-by-the-presidents-investing-in-america-agenda/),
will help ensure that the benefits of this growing sector are shared
equitably. Continuing to track the growth of the energy sector in this
and other data will be an important part of ensuring that this Investing
in America legislation is implemented in a way that benefits American
workers, families, and communities.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

<a href="#_ftnref1" id="_ftn1">[1]</a> Jobs in the construction industry
are not included in these estimates.

<a href="#_ftnref1" id="_ftn1">[2]</a> This estimate reflects specific
projects included in planning reports submitted to the U.S. Energy
Information Administration that were not in meaningful planning or
permitting stages prior to the start of the Administration. It does not
capture all the new clean energy investments that companies have
announced since the start of the Administration or all the projects that
will benefit from the Inflation Reduction Act.

<a href="#_ftnref1" id="_ftn1">[3]</a> For national-level data, clean
energy jobs are defined as jobs with work related to the U.S.’s net zero
goal (e.g., jobs related to renewable energy; grid technologies and
storage; traditional electricity transmission and distribution for
electricity; nuclear energy; a subset of energy efficiency that does not
involve fossil fuel burning equipment; biofuels; and plug-in hybrid,
battery electric, and hydrogen fuel cell vehicles and components).

<a href="#_ftnref2" id="_ftn2">[4]</a> “Clean” jobs are defined as jobs
in which more than 50 percent of time is devoted to clean energy
technology areas.

<a href="#_ftnref3" id="_ftn3">[5]</a> Clean energy jobs refer to a
wider set of jobs in state-level data compared to the national
definition noted in footnote 3. Notably, while both energy efficiency
and traditional transmission and distribution are only partially
included at the national level, both are incorporated into the
state-level data.
