---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-09-14'
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/09/14/a-proclamation-on-national-hispanic-heritage-month-2021/
published_time: 2021-09-14 10:16:57-04:00
title: A Proclamation on National Hispanic Heritage Month, 2021
---
 
During National Hispanic Heritage Month, we recognize that Hispanic
heritage is American heritage.  We see it in every aspect of our
national life:  on our television and movie screens, in the music that
moves our feet, and in the foods we enjoy.  We benefit from the many
contributions of Hispanic scientists working in labs across the country
to help us fight COVID-19 and the doctors and the nurses on the front
lines caring for people’s health.  Our Nation is represented by Hispanic
diplomats who share our values in countries all over the world and
strengthened by military members and their families who serve and
sacrifice for the United States.  Our communities are represented by
Hispanic elected officials, and our children are taught by Hispanic
teachers.  Our future will be shaped by Hispanic engineers who are
working to develop new technology that will help us grasp our clean
energy future and by the skilled union workers who are going to build
it.

National Hispanic Heritage Month is an important reminder of how much
strength we draw as a Nation from our immigrant roots and our values as
a Nation of immigrants.  I am proud to recognize my four Hispanic
Cabinet Secretaries — Secretary of Health and Human Services Xavier
Becerra, Secretary of Homeland Security Alejandro Mayorkas, Secretary of
Education Miguel Cardona and Small Business Administrator Isabel Guzman
— who are all leading executive departments that oversee critical
components of American life.  My Administration is focused on making
equity a priority and ensuring that Hispanics are front and center in
our efforts to improve the lives of working families across the
country. 

During National Hispanic Heritage Month, we also recognize that America
cannot succeed unless Hispanic families and communities succeed, sharing
equally in the benefits of our recovery and our investments.  My
American Rescue Plan provided much-needed relief to the Hispanic
community during the pandemic.  Additional Paycheck Protection Program
funding for small businesses and rental assistance has helped families
stay in their homes, and the child tax credit is helping lift Hispanic
children out of poverty.  

A critical key to building back better is ensuring that Hispanic
communities also benefit from investments in roads, clean water, and
broadband as well as access to early education and other resources that
support working families and improve educational outcomes.  We must also
continue the fight to protect the sacred right to vote and provide a
pathway to citizenship for undocumented Hispanics — especially Dreamers,
Temporary Protected Status holders, farmworkers, and essential workers —
through desperately needed immigration reform.  Creating a pathway to
citizenship is a top priority for my Administration not only because
this benefits our Nation’s economy but also because it is the right
thing to do.

As we honor and celebrate the contributions of Hispanics to our Nation,
we also reaffirm our commitment to extending the hand of friendship to
Latin America and strengthening democracy in the region.  My
Administration has sent over 5 million doses of the COVID-19 vaccine to
Mexico with millions more on the way.  We have donated over 33 million
doses of the vaccine to 21 other countries in Latin America.  This
included the first doses of the vaccine to reach Haiti, carried there by
the United States Coast Guard.  This vaccine will help protect Haiti’s
first responders and health care workers.

In recognition of the achievements of Hispanics, the Congress, by Public
Law 100-402, as amended, has authorized and requested the President to
issue annually a proclamation designating September 15 through October
15 as “National Hispanic Heritage Month.”

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim September 15
through October 15, 2021, as National Hispanic Heritage Month.  I call
upon public officials, educators, librarians, and all Americans to
observe this month with appropriate ceremonies, activities, and
programs.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this fourteenth day of
September, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
