---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-09-10'
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/09/10/a-proclamation-on-patriot-day-and-national-day-of-service-and-remembrance-2021/
published_time: 2021-09-10 10:22:00-04:00
title: A Proclamation on Patriot Day and National Day of Service and Remembrance,
  2021
---
 
Twenty years ago, the United States endured one of the most
unconscionable tragedies in our country’s history.  The cowardly
terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center, the Pentagon, and onboard
United Flight 93 cut short the lives of 2,977 innocent people.  These
attacks tore a hole in the heart of our Nation, and the pain of this
tragedy still remains.  Each year on this somber date, we remember the
horror and bravery shown that day, just as we remember how we came
together, united in grief and in purpose.  Each year, we renew our
solemn vow to never forget what happened on September 11, 2001, or those
who lost their lives.

On Patriot Day and National Day of Service and Remembrance, we honor
every life that was taken too soon.  We honor the first responders —
firefighters, law enforcement officers, emergency workers, and service
members — who answered the call of duty, and the brave civilians who
rushed into action to save lives that day.  Their courage embodies the
American spirit and resilience, and their heroism continues to inspire
new generations of Americans.

My mother used to say that “courage lies in every heart, and one day it
will be summoned.”  It was summoned and shown by those who responded to
the events on 9/11.  First responders, emergency workers, and civilians
ran to where the devastation was the greatest, where death came in an
instant but where there were survivors to be found; a determined group
of heroes onboard United Flight 93 sacrificed their lives to save the
lives of others — in every case, Americans faced the unimaginable with
resolve and courage.  Today and every day, we draw hope from the
strength and selflessness of those who stepped up to serve their fellow
man and our Nation on that tragic day.

We also remember the patriotism and valor of our service members who
pursued our attackers, delivered justice to Osama bin Laden, and
degraded al-Qa’ida.  We will keep our sacred obligation to care for our
service members and veterans who served in Afghanistan over the last 20
years, as well as their families, caregivers, and survivors.  
  
Over the last two decades the American people have demonstrated that the
harder the circumstances, the more resilient and stronger we become. 
Our shared love of country and our shared values — regardless of race,
gender, religion, origin, or economic status — unite us as Americans
against all enemies, foreign and domestic.

Today, on this Patriot Day and National Day of Service and Remembrance,
we move forward as one Nation, united by our common goal of liberty and
justice for all.  We remember those killed on September 11, 2001, and
honor them through acts of service.  I encourage all Americans to visit
americorps.gov/911-day to learn about and seek opportunities to serve
others on this day and to demonstrate once again that the ideals we
hold, which many have tried to attack and destroy, are the very bonds
that hold us together — even tighter in times of peril.

By a joint resolution approved December 18, 2001 (Public Law 107-89),
the Congress has designated September 11 of each year as “Patriot Day,”
and by Public Law 111-13, approved April 21, 2009, the Congress has
requested the observance of September 11 as an annually recognized
“National Day of Service and Remembrance.” 

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, do hereby proclaim September 11, 2021, as Patriot Day and
National Day of Service and Remembrance.  I call upon all departments,
agencies, and instrumentalities of the United States to display the flag
of the United States at half-staff on Patriot Day and National Day of
Service and Remembrance in honor of the individuals who lost their lives
on September 11, 2001.  I invite the Governors of the United States and
its Territories and interested organizations and individuals to join in
this observance.  I call upon the people of the United States to
participate in community service in honor of those our Nation lost, to
observe this day with appropriate ceremonies and activities, including
remembrance services, and to observe a moment of silence beginning at
8:46 a.m. eastern daylight time to honor the innocent victims who
perished as a result of the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
tenth day of September, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one,
and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred
and forty-sixth.

  
                          JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
