---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-09-27'
modified_time: 2021-09-27 10:12:00-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/09/27/a-proclamation-on-national-voter-registration-day-2021/
published_time: 2021-09-27 10:11:59-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on National Voter Registration Day,\_2021"
---
 
The right to vote is central to who we are as a Nation and a people — it
defines us as Americans, propels us to ever-greater progress, and serves
as the foundation of our liberty.  Voting provides Americans with a
voice in building the country we want to live in together and the
country we hope to leave to our children and grandchildren.  The right
to vote freely and fairly, and to have our vote counted, is a sacred and
fundamental part of our Nation’s character.  With it, anything is
possible for America; without it, nothing is.

For our democracy to work, it is up to all of us to protect the right to
vote — and to exercise it.  The first step that all of us can take is to
make sure that we are registered to vote.  Each year, National Voter
Registration Day reminds us of our right and our responsibility, as
individual citizens and as one Nation, to exercise the sacred right to
vote and ensure that our voices are heard.

Through great sacrifice and the courage of generations of civil rights
leaders and activists, we have made strides to ensure that more
Americans are able to take part in the democratic process.  We have
repeatedly amended the Constitution to expand voting access across our
history, and landmark legislation like the Indian Citizenship Act of
1924 and the Voting Rights Act of 1965 have helped to make those
constitutional promises real and meaningful for more and more of our
people. 

But this work remains unfinished.  Today, the right to vote is being
suppressed and subverted in many parts of the country by shameful
attempts to restrict Americans’ access to the ballot and the rolling
back of decades of voting rights progress.  This assault — largely
targeting Americans of color, as such assaults so often have through the
darkest chapters of our history, is an attack on our democracy, on our
liberty, and on who we are as Americans.  As my friend, American hero
Representative John Lewis, reminded us shortly before he passed,
‘Democracy is not a state; it is an act.’  It is our shared
responsibility to act as one people to secure the basic promise of
American democracy.

My Administration has taken firm and far-reaching action to expand and
protect voting rights.  Earlier this year, I issued an Executive Order
to promote access to voting.  This order established a
whole-of-government effort directing Federal agencies to expand access
to voter registration and election information, especially in some of
our most underserved communities.  My Administration also supports
Federal legislation to set basic national standards for fair
registration and voting in Federal elections and to protect against
racial discrimination and the subversion of the election process. 
Guaranteeing the right to vote and ensuring that every vote is counted
has always been one of the most patriotic things we can do, and my
Administration is committed to safeguarding and strengthening our
democracy.  

As we observe National Voter Registration Day, I encourage all eligible
Americans to make sure they are registered to vote — to check their
registration status and ensure that their registration is accurate and
up to date — and to help their neighbors, family, and friends to do the
same.  Visit [Vote.gov](http://www.vote.gov) for more information on how
to register to vote.  I also urge policymakers and citizens across the
country, of all parties, to join me in defending, strengthening, and
expanding this paramount constitutional right.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim September 28,
2021, as National Voter Registration Day.  I call on all Americans to
observe this day by ensuring they are registered to vote, and thereby
prepared to stand up for our democracy and the vitality and integrity
of our elections.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-seventh day
of September, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
