---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-09-24'
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/09/24/a-proclamation-on-gold-star-mothers-and-familys-day-2021/
published_time: 2021-09-24 10:28:02-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on Gold Star Mother\u2019s and Family\u2019s Day, 2021"
---
 
Throughout our history, America’s men and women in uniform have
dedicated their lives and made the ultimate sacrifice to protect our
freedom and the freedom of oppressed people around the world.  They are
the backbone of America, and make up the bravest, most capable,
most selfless military on the face of the Earth.  We witnessed that in
the historic undertaking to evacuate more than 124,000 American
citizens, the citizens of our allies and partners, our Afghan allies,
and other at risk Afghans from Kabul, Afghanistan.  

I am outraged by the vicious terrorist attack at the Kabul Airport that
took the lives of our brave service members who were working to save the
lives of others.  My heart aches that this year we have more Gold Star
families who must mourn their heroic loved ones.  Our Nation is forever
indebted to those who gave their last full measure of devotion to defend
our peace and security.  We are devastated by their loss and inspired by
their sacrifice.  When we remember these fallen service members, we must
also honor the people who mourn their losses.  We remember them every
day, and on this day, we pay special tribute to their surviving
families.  

The families of our fallen men and women in uniform understand the true
and painful price of freedom — coping with loss and unspeakable grief.
 And today, on Gold Star Mother’s and Family’s Day, we recognize their
enduring pain and honor their resilience.  We stand with them to
preserve the legacy of their fallen loved ones and pledge that their
memories and their sacrifices will never be forgotten.

Jill and I know the pride, but also the uncertainty and fear, that
military families feel when their loved ones are deployed, wondering if
they will return home.  Whenever I deploy our troops into harm’s way, I
take that responsibility seriously.  It is a burden that I carry every
day.  Every life lost in service to this country is an unspeakable
tragedy, and while we as a Nation can never repay that debt, we have
a sacred obligation to support those they leave behind.  

To all of our surviving families, know that our entire Nation grieves
with you.  Know that there are resources available and ready to support
you, and know that the American people will keep our sacred obligation
to you and to the memory of your loved one.  You represent the best of
America, and we are grateful for your courage.

The Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 115 of June 23, 1936 (49 Stat.
1895 as amended), has designated the last Sunday in September as “Gold
Star Mother’s Day.”

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim Sunday, September
26, 2021, as Gold Star Mother’s and Family’s Day.  I call upon all
Government officials to display the flag of the United States over
Government buildings on this special day.  I also encourage the American
people to display the flag and hold appropriate ceremonies as a public
expression of our Nation’s gratitude and respect for our Gold Star
Mothers and Families.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-fourth day
of September, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
