---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-09-03'
modified_time: 2021-09-03 13:20:43-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/09/03/executive-order-on-white-house-initiative-on-advancing-educational-equity-excellence-and-economic-opportunity-through-historically-black-colleges-and-universities/
published_time: 2021-09-03 13:20:42-04:00
title: "Executive Order on White\_House Initiative on Advancing Educational Equity,\
  \ Excellence, and Economic Opportunity through Historically Black Colleges and\_\
  Universities"
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, and in order to advance equity in
economic and educational opportunities for all Americans, including
Black Americans, strengthen the capacity of Historically Black Colleges
and Universities (HBCUs) to provide the highest-quality education,
increase opportunities for these institutions to participate in and
benefit from Federal programs, and ensure that HBCUs can continue to be
engines of opportunity, it is hereby ordered as follows:

     Section 1.  Policy.  HBCUs have a proud history and legacy of
achievement.  In the face of discrimination against Black Americans by
many institutions of higher education, HBCUs created pathways to
opportunity and educational excellence for Black students throughout our
Nation.  That legacy continues.  Today, more than 100 HBCUs, located in
19 States, the District of Columbia, and the U.S. Virgin Islands, serve
nearly 300,000 students annually.  HBCUs vary in size and academic focus
and serve a range of diverse students and communities in urban, rural,
and suburban settings.

     HBCUs play a vital role in providing educational opportunities,
scholarly growth, and a sense of community for students.  HBCU graduates
are barrier-breaking public servants, scientists, artists, lawyers,
engineers, educators, business owners, and leaders.  For generations,
HBCUs have been advancing intergenerational economic mobility for Black
families and communities, developing vital academic research, and making
our country more prosperous and equitable.  HBCUs are proven means of
advancement for people of all ethnic, racial, and economic backgrounds,
especially Black Americans.  HBCUs produce nearly 20 percent of all
Black college graduates and 25 percent of Black graduates who earn
degrees in the disciplines of science, technology, engineering, and
math.

     HBCUs’ successes have come despite many systemic barriers to
accessing resources and opportunities.  For example, compared to other
higher education institutions, on average HBCUs educate a greater
percentage of lower-income, Pell-grant eligible students, while
receiving less revenue from tuition and possessing much smaller
endowments.  Disparities in resources and opportunities for HBCUs and
their students remain, and the COVID-19 pandemic has highlighted
continuing and new challenges.  These challenges include addressing the
need for enhanced physical and digital infrastructure in HBCU
communities and ensuring equitable funding for HBCUs as compared to
other institutions of higher education.  The Federal Government must
promote a variety of modern solutions for HBCUs, recognizing that HBCUs
are not a monolith, and that the opportunities and challenges relevant
to HBCUs are as diverse as the institutions themselves and the
communities they serve. 

     It is the policy of my Administration to advance educational
equity, excellence, and economic opportunity in partnership with HBCUs,
and to ensure that these vital institutions of higher learning have the
resources and support to continue to thrive for generations to come.

     Sec. 2.  White House Initiative on Advancing Educational Equity,
Excellence, and Economic Opportunity through Historically Black Colleges
and Universities. (a)  In furtherance of the policy set out in section 1
of this order, there is established in the Department of Education
(Department), the White House Initiative on Advancing Educational
Equity, Excellence, and Economic Opportunity through Historically Black
Colleges and Universities (Initiative), led by an Executive Director
designated by the President and appointed consistent with applicable
law.  The Executive Director shall manage the day‑to‑day operations of
the Initiative, in consultation with the Assistant to the President and
Director of the White House Office of Public Engagement as appropriate,
and coordinate with senior officials across the Executive Office of the
President, who shall lend their expertise and advice to the Initiative.

     (b)  The Initiative, in coordination with senior officials across
the Executive Office of the President, shall provide advice to the
President on advancing equity, excellence, and opportunity at HBCUs and
for the communities they principally serve by coordinating a
Government-wide policymaking effort to eliminate barriers HBCUs face in
providing the highest-quality education to a growing number of students.
 The Initiative’s recommendations shall include advice on advancing
policies, programs, and initiatives that further the policy set out in
section 1 of this order.

\(i\)   To support implementation of this Government-wide approach to
breaking down systemic barriers for HBCU participation in Federal
Government programs, the Director of the Office of Management and Budget
and the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy shall coordinate
closely with the Secretary of Education (Secretary), the Assistant to
the President and Director of the White House Office of Public
Engagement, the Executive Director, and the Chair of the President’s
Board of Advisors on HBCUs (as established in section 3 of this order)
to ensure that the needs and voices of HBCUs, their faculty, staff,
students, alumni, and the communities they principally serve are
considered in the efforts of my Administration to advance educational
equity, excellence, and opportunity.   

\(ii\)  The Initiative shall also perform the following specific
functions:

\(A\)  supporting implementation of the HBCU Propelling Agency
Relationships Towards a New Era of Results for Students Act (Public Law
116-270) (PARTNERS Act);

\(B\)  working closely with the Executive Office of the President on key
Administration priorities related to advancing educational equity,
excellence, and economic opportunity through HBCUs, in partnership with
HBCU leaders, representatives, students, and alumni;

\(C\)  working to break down barriers and expand pathways for HBCUs to
access Federal funding and programs, particularly in areas of research
and development, innovation, and financial and other support to
students;

\(D\)  strengthening the capacity of HBCUs to participate in Federal
programs, access Federal resources, including grants and procurement
opportunities, and partner with Federal agencies;

\(E\)  advancing and coordinating efforts to ensure that HBCUs can
respond to and recover from the COVID-19 pandemic and thoroughly support
students’ holistic recovery, from academic engagement to social and
emotional wellbeing;

\(F\)  developing new and expanding pre-existing national networks of
individuals, organizations, and communities to share and implement
administrative and programmatic best practices related to advancing
educational equity, excellence, and opportunity at HBCUs;

\(G\)  fostering sustainable public-private and philanthropic
partnerships as well as private-sector initiatives to promote centers of
academic research and program excellence at HBCUs;

\(H\)  strengthening capacity to improve the availability,
dissemination, and quality of information about HBCUs and HBCU students
for the American public;

\(I\)  partnering with private entities, elementary and secondary
education providers, and other stakeholders to build a pipeline for
students that may be interested in attending HBCUs, facilitate HBCU
modernization, address college affordability, and promote degree
attainment;

\(J\)  addressing efforts to promote student success and retention,
including college affordability, degree attainment, campus modernization
and infrastructure improvements, and the development of a student
recognition program for high-achieving HBCU students;

\(K\)  encouraging the development of highly qualified, diverse,
culturally responsive educators and administrators reflective of a
variety of communities and backgrounds in order to ensure that students
have access to educators and administrators who celebrate, cultivate,
and comprehend the lived experiences of HBCU students and effectively
meet their learning, social, and emotional needs;

\(L\)  establishing clear plans to strengthen Federal recruitment
activities at HBCUs to build accessible and equitable pathways into
Federal service and talent programs;

\(M\)  meeting regularly with HBCU students, leaders, and
representatives to address matters related to the Initiative’s mission
and functions; and

\(N\)  hosting the National HBCU Week Conference, for HBCU executive
leaders, faculty, students, alumni, supporters, and other stakeholders
to share information, innovative educational tools and resources,
student success models, and ideas for Federal engagement.

     (c)  The head of each “applicable agency,” as defined in section
3(1) of the PARTNERS Act, shall submit to the Secretary, the Executive
Director, the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the
Senate, the Committee on Education and Labor of the House of
Representatives, and the President’s Board of Advisors on HBCUs (as
established in section 3 of this order) an Agency Plan, not later than
February 1 of each year, describing efforts to strengthen the capacity
of HBCUs to participate or be eligible to participate in the programs
and initiatives under the jurisdiction of such applicable agency.  The
Agency Plans shall meet the requirements established in section 4(d) of
the PARTNERS Act.

(i)   In addition, the Agency Plan shall specifically address any
changes to agency policies and practices that the agency deems necessary
or appropriate to ensure that barriers to participation are addressed
and removed.  Each Agency Plan shall include details on grant and
contract funding provided to HBCUs and, where the agency deems necessary
or appropriate, describe plans to address disparities in furtherance of
the objectives of this order. 

\(ii\)  The Executive Director shall monitor and evaluate each agency’s
progress towards the goals established in its Agency Plan and shall
coordinate with each agency to ensure that its Agency Plan includes
measurable and action-oriented goals.

     (d)  There is established an Interagency Working Group, which shall
be chaired by the Executive Director and composed of liaisons and
representatives designated by the heads of each applicable agency as
defined in the PARTNERS Act to help advance and coordinate the work
required by this order.  Additional members of the Interagency Working
Group shall include senior officials from the Office of the Vice
President, the White House Domestic Policy Council, the White House
Gender Policy Council, the Office of Management and Budget, the White
House Office of Science and Technology Policy, the White House Office of
Public Engagement, and representatives of other components of the
Executive Office of the President, as the Executive Director,
in consultation with the Secretary and the Assistant to the President
and Director of the White House Office of Public Engagement, considers
appropriate.  The Interagency Working Group shall collaborate regarding
resources and opportunities available across the Federal Government to
increase educational equity and opportunities for HBCUs.  The Executive
Director may establish subgroups of the Interagency Working Group.

     (e)  The Department shall provide funding and administrative
support for the Initiative and the Interagency Working Group, to the
extent permitted by law and within existing appropriations.  To the
extent permitted by law, including the Economy Act (31 U.S.C. 1535), and
subject to the availability of appropriations, other agencies and
offices represented on the Interagency Working Group may detail
personnel to the Initiative, to assist the Department in meeting the
objectives of this order.

     (f)  To advance shared priorities and policies that advance equity
and economic opportunity for underserved communities, the Initiative
shall collaborate and coordinate with other White House Initiatives
related to equity and economic opportunity.

     (g)  On an annual basis, the Executive Director shall report to the
President through the Secretary, with the support and consultation of
the Assistant to the President and Director of the White House Office of
Public Engagement as appropriate, on the Initiative’s progress in
carrying out its mission and function under this order.

     Sec. 3.  President’s Board of Advisors on Historically Black
Colleges and Universities.  (a)  There is established in the Department
the President’s Board of Advisors on Historically Black Colleges and
Universities (Board).  The Board shall fulfill the mission and functions
established in section 5(c) of the PARTNERS Act.  The Board shall
include sitting HBCU presidents as well as leaders from a variety of
sectors, including education, philanthropy, business, finance,
entrepreneurship, innovation, science and technology, and private
foundations.

(b)  The President shall designate one member of the Board to serve as
its Chair, and may designate another member of the Board to serve as
Vice Chair.  The Department shall provide funding and administrative
support for the Board to the extent permitted by law and within existing
appropriations.

(c)  The Board shall be composed of not more than 21 members appointed
by the President.  The Secretary of Education and Executive Director of
the Initiative or their designees shall serve as ex officio members.

(d)  Insofar as the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended (5 U.S.C.
App.), may apply to the Board, any functions of the President under that
Act, except that of reporting to the Congress, shall be performed by the
Chair, in accordance with guidelines issued by the Administrator of
General Services.

(e)  Members of the Board shall serve without compensation, but may
receive travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as
authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the Government
service (5 U.S.C. 5701-5707).

     Sec. 4.  Administrative Provisions.  (a)  This order supersedes
Executive Order 13779 of February 28, 2017 (White House Initiative To
Promote Excellence and Innovation at Historically Black Colleges and
Universities), which is hereby revoked.  To the extent that there are
other Executive Orders that may conflict with or overlap with the
provisions in this order, the provisions in this order supersede those
prior Executive Orders on these subjects.

     (b)  As used in this order, the terms “Historically Black Colleges
and Universities” and “HBCUs” shall mean those institutions listed in 34
C.F.R. 608.2.

     (c)  The heads of executive departments and agencies shall assist
and provide information to the Initiative and Board established in this
order, consistent with applicable law, as may be necessary to carry out
the functions of the Initiative and the Board.

     (d)  Each executive department and agency shall bear its own
expenses of participating in the Initiative established in this order.

     Sec. 5.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency,
or the head thereof; or

(ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

     (b)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.

     (c)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right
or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity
by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

THE WHITE HOUSE,

    September 3, 2021.
