---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-09-17'
modified_time: 2021-09-17 10:22:38-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/09/17/a-proclamation-on-national-farm-safety-and-health-week-2021/
published_time: 2021-09-17 10:22:37-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on National Farm Safety and Health Week,\_2021"
---
 
In every generation, America’s farmers, ranchers, and farmworkers have
fed and fueled our Nation, nurturing the strength and health of our
people, our communities, and our economy.  Since 1944, we have
celebrated these critical workers during National Farm Safety and Health
Week — a time for all of us to recommit ourselves to advancing the
safety and well-being of all hardworking farm and ranch workers.

The contributions of farmers, ranchers, and farmworkers have always been
essential, but they have perhaps never been more evident than during the
COVID-19 pandemic.  The pandemic has taken an incalculable toll on our
Nation’s farms and farming communities, with high rates of infections
and illnesses affecting nearly every facet of our agricultural system. 
Beyond the unique challenges posed by the pandemic, the agriculture
sector has always been both physically and mentally demanding, and it
remains one of the most dangerous industries in America.

Despite these challenges, our dedicated farmers, ranchers, and
farmworkers have continued to work around the clock, putting their lives
and the lives of their loved ones on the line to ensure that families
across the country have food on the table.  Their sacrifices are
commendable, but they should not have to risk injury, illness, or death
to do their jobs.  Our Nation has a duty to protect agricultural workers
and promote safety education for farmers and farm families.  We must
continue to reduce the risks of accidents, injuries, and fatalities —
including those on rural roadways involving tractors and other machinery
— as well as the health risks associated with prolonged exposure to
fertilizers and chemical agents.  We must continue to get Americans
vaccinated, so that our brave farmers, ranchers, and farmworkers can go
to work free from the deadly threat of COVID-19.

American farmworkers are the best in the world, and they have always
faced the challenges of the job head-on.  Their success is our Nation’s
success, and we must support them and their well-being as they feed the
world, lift up their local communities, and contribute to the prosperity
and possibilities of rural America and beyond.  My Administration is
committed to ensuring that every farmer, rancher, and farmworker can
work in a safe and healthy environment.  By having their backs, our
Nation will continue to lead the world in agricultural production and
innovation and ensure that our food supply is secure and our economy is
strong.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim September 19
through September 25, 2021, as National Farm Safety and Health Week.  I
call upon the people of the United States, including America’s farmers
and ranchers and agriculture-related institutions, organizations, and
businesses to reaffirm a dedication to farm safety and health.  I also
urge all Americans to honor the historic and ongoing contributions of
our agricultural sector and express appreciation and gratitude to our
farmers and ranchers for their vital contributions and tireless service
to our Nation.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this seventeenth day of
September, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
