---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-09-17'
modified_time: 2021-09-17 10:18:19-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/09/17/a-proclamation-on-minority-enterprise-development-week-2021/
published_time: 2021-09-17 10:18:18-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on Minority Enterprise Development Week,\_2021"
---
 
For many families, a business is more than a job — it is the fulfillment
of a dream:  a better life, a family legacy, a place in the community.
 Minority businesses in particular are the heart and soul of so many
communities across our Nation.  From Wall Street to Main Street, over
9.2 million minority business enterprises (MBEs) support jobs and
generate more than $1.8 trillion for our economy every year.  During
Minority Enterprise Development Week, our Nation recognizes the
importance of minority-owned businesses and the impact they have on
every community. 

Even as the COVID-19 pandemic continues to test America’s businesses
like few events in our Nation’s history, MBEs and minority business
owners have shown remarkable resilience, working around the clock and
adapting to changes to keep their businesses running and their employees
safely working.  Despite these efforts, minority-owned businesses have
been disproportionately hard-hit, with many forced to shut down because
of revenue losses and many more hanging on by a thread. 

My Administration is committed to supporting minority entrepreneurs and
minority-owned businesses. On my first day in office, I signed an
Executive Order directing the entire Federal Government to advance
equity for underserved communities across our Nation, specifically with
respect to Federal procurement.  In order to help our struggling
businesses during the darkest moments of the pandemic, my Administration
revamped the Paycheck Protection Program to provide greater access to
small businesses, including minority-owned businesses.

Because the Federal Government is the Nation’s largest buyer, purchasing
$600 billion of goods and services each year, and because these
purchases not only meet our Nation’s needs but also supply economic
opportunity, I recently announced a new goal to increase the share of
contracts awarded to small disadvantaged businesses by 50 percent over
the next 5 years.  Additionally, my Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal will
expand the authority and stature of the Minority Business Development
Agency within the Department of Commerce so that it can continue to
break barriers, blaze new trails, and eliminate the unique challenges
minority-owned businesses face in accessing capital, contracts, and
market avenues to success.

During Minority Enterprise Development Week, we recognize that our
Nation and our economy are stronger because of the hardworking men and
women who comprise America’s minority business community.  They
consistently demonstrate the courage it takes to overcome adversity,
seize opportunity, and contribute to our shared prosperity. 

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim September 19,
2021, through September 25, 2021, as Minority Enterprise Development
Week.  I call upon the people of the United States to acknowledge and
celebrate the achievements and contributions of minority business
entrepreneurs and enterprises and commit together to promote systemic
economic equality.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this seventeenth day of
September, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
