---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-09-24'
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/09/24/a-proclamation-on-national-public-lands-day-2021/
published_time: 2021-09-24 10:28:07-04:00
title: A Proclamation on National Public Lands Day, 2021
---
 
On National Public Lands Day, we celebrate America’s beautiful and
majestic public lands — those irreplaceable natural treasures that
belong to all of us in equal measure.  Our Nation is blessed with an
abundance of awe-inspiring public lands, including National Parks,
Monuments, conservation areas, wildlife refuges, forests, grasslands,
marine sanctuaries, lakes, and reservoirs.  For Americans in every
part of our Nation, these spaces are invaluable sources of recreation
and education, of spiritual fulfillment and rejuvenation, and
of inspiration and pride.

Since 1994, National Public Lands Day has brought together hundreds of
thousands of volunteers to help restore these essential places; today,
it is the largest single-day public lands volunteer event in our
Nation.  From Shenandoah National Park to Tonto National Forest,
volunteers complete service projects like building bridges and trails,
restoring native ecosystems, collecting trash, and removing invasive
species.  These service projects also give volunteers the opportunity
to learn more about our public lands and understand the environmental,
economic, and health benefits our natural wonders provide.  On this day,
all federally managed public lands and waters will offer free admission
for anyone in America who wishes to explore these shared spaces. 

My Administration is committed to conserving our precious public lands
and waters.  Earlier this year, I signed an Executive Order to create a
Civilian Climate Corps, which will put dedicated Americans to work
conserving and restoring our public lands and waters for the benefit of
all our people.  Through our “America the Beautiful” initiative, we are
also working with State, local, and Tribal governments as well as
private landowners through voluntary conservation efforts to achieve our
goal of conserving 30 percent of our Nation’s lands and waters by 2030.
 This decade-long effort will harness the best of the American spirit to
protect our biodiversity, improve access to public spaces, and conserve
and restore the lands, waters, and wildlife that we all depend on for
generations to come.

Our public lands have provided millions of Americans with a much-needed
reprieve from the stress and hardships felt during the COVID-19
pandemic.  As we continue to get America vaccinated and defeat the
pandemic, I invite all Americans to recognize the enormous value — both
tangible and intangible — of these unique natural places and to support
their local public lands and waters through acts of volunteerism and
service.  At the same time, we also recognize that not all Americans
have equal access to our public lands.  My Administration is committed
to improving equitable access to nature in every community
and to ensuring that every American has the opportunity to enjoy these
natural spaces that belong to all of us.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim September 25,
2021, as National Public Lands Day.  I invite all Americans to join me
in a day of service for our public lands.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-fourth day
of September, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
