---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-09-30'
modified_time: 2021-09-30 14:07:23-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/09/30/a-proclamation-on-national-youth-justice-action-month-2021/
published_time: 2021-09-30 11:14:48-04:00
title: A Proclamation on National Youth Justice Action Month, 2021
---
 
I have often said that America’s young people are the kite strings that
hold our national ambitions aloft — they carry the possibilities of our
country and the sacred promise of a democracy where every one of us is
treated equally and entitled to equal justice under the law.  However,
far too many of our young people are effectively excluded from
participating in our democracy, having been sidelined by unnecessary
encounters with the justice system.  They deserve a second chance. 

During National Youth Justice Action Month, I call upon States and
communities to join me in seeking justice for our youth and modernizing
our juvenile justice system, a system that should allow young people to
build their lives and grow with freedom and dignity. 

Long-standing inequities in our society — including in our juvenile and
criminal justice systems — continue to disproportionately burden people
of color and people with disabilities.  Nationwide, Black youth are more
than four times as likely as their white peers to be held in juvenile
facilities, and they come into contact with both the juvenile justice
and the child welfare systems at far higher rates.  Additionally,
one-third of young people in juvenile justice facilities have a
disability, including many with emotional distress and learning
disabilities.  To deliver equal justice and equal dignity to all people,
it is imperative that we root out racial inequities and other forms of
discrimination from these systems.

Although youth arrests are at their lowest levels in decades, each
arrest can create a ripple effect of heightened risks and negative
consequences for young people.  Once in the system, young people may
face abusive treatment and dangerous conditions, including excessive use
of restraint, guard-instigated fights, and sexual assault.  Adverse
environments and lack of support make it difficult for young people who
enter the carceral system to lead healthy, productive lives
upon exiting.

To give all of our young people a chance to live up to their full
potential, we need to shift our approach from a default stance of
incarceration to one of prevention — a strategy that recognizes that
children’s developmental stages and needs are starkly different from
those of adults.  Addressing racial disparities in school discipline and
supporting proven early intervention efforts like afterschool and
mentoring programs are simple steps we can take to help all young people
find a sense of purpose and contribute to their communities.  Many
States are making a greater effort to keep teenagers under the
jurisdiction of juvenile courts, which take their developmental needs
into account and are better equipped to support their rehabilitation
than systems built for adults.

In my Fiscal Year 2022 budget, I proposed an $800 million investment to
more than double our current funding for juvenile justice and youth
reentry programs that protect children and help young people get the
services they need to get back on their feet.  This includes incentives
for States and communities that introduce reforms to reduce youth
incarceration — including repurposing juvenile detention facilities to
focus more on youth development.  It also includes resources to develop
research-based solutions to steer kids away from detention and toward
more positive alternatives.  Through grants provided by the Office of
Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention at the Department of
Justice, we are giving young people access to high-quality legal
representation and resources to help them better manage the consequences
of their contact with the system.  We will ensure that young people in
the juvenile justice system receive the counsel they are entitled to and
will work to address the disproportionately high enforcement directed
against young people of color. 

Moreover, my Administration is working to ensure that all young people
have the support they need to avoid entering the justice system in the
first place.  I have proposed $1 billion for a new School-Based Health
Professionals grant program to help double the number of counselors,
nurses, social workers, and other health professionals in our schools.
 In addition, I have proposed $443 million for Full-Service Community
Schools, which would provide comprehensive wrap-around services to
students and their families.  Programs like these help ensure that more
young people grow up in supportive environments and have what they need
to reach their full potential. 

It is the responsibility of all of us to support America’s youth and
ensure that they are in a position to thrive in every community.  By
shifting our focus from incarceration to prevention, we can bring about
a brighter future for our young people and our country as a whole. 
Together, we can fulfill the promise of an America that is just and
equitable for all.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim October 2021 as
National Youth Justice Action Month.  I call upon all Americans to
observe this month by taking action to support our youth and by
participating in appropriate ceremonies, activities, and programs in
their communities.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirtieth day of
September, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
