---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-09-30'
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/09/30/a-proclamation-on-national-arts-and-humanities-month-2021/
published_time: 2021-09-30 11:26:15-04:00
title: A Proclamation on National Arts and Humanities Month, 2021
---
 
As our Nation continues to grapple with consequential crises — from
combating the ongoing global pandemic and addressing cries for racial
justice to tackling the existential threat that climate change poses to
our planet — the arts and humanities enable us to both understand our
experiences and lift our sights. During this National Arts and
Humanities Month, we celebrate the power of the arts and humanities to
provide solace, understanding, and healing. We recognize the ability of
the arts and humanities to amplify important and diverse voices and
messages. We reflect on the fact that, as we have struggled with
isolation, anxiety, and the loss of loved ones, we have turned to music
and dance, literature and poetry, and philosophy and history to bring us
together and help us persevere through, and grapple with, our current
moment.

From our Nation’s earliest days, we have recognized the arts as a
foundation of our Republic.  As George Washington wrote in 1781, “The
arts and sciences \[are\] essential to the prosperity of the State and
to the ornament and happiness of human life.”  Today, any American —
regardless of their background — can create art and turn to it for hope,
acceptance, and inspiration.  The arts and humanities have united us as
a Nation — from the television programs we watch to the books and
exhibits that inspire us — providing a sense of community when we need
it most.  

The COVID-19 pandemic has devastated our creative sectors.  Before the
pandemic, our Nation’s arts and culture sectors were strong and vibrant
— a nearly $1 trillion industry employing over 5 million Americans.  But
as the pandemic canceled events and closed theatres, concert halls, and
performance venues, the unemployment rates for the cultural community
spiked to among the highest in the Nation.  Many museums, libraries, and
arts venues closed their curtains and doors, some for a final time.  For
our Nation to fully recover and heal, we need the creative economy and
our cultural sector to recover.

My Administration recognizes the essential role the arts and humanities
play in our Nation’s economy, democracy, health, and vitality and is
committed to supporting the arts community.  That is why my American
Rescue Plan added another $1.25 billion in funding for the Shuttered
Venues Operators Grant through the Small Business Administration, for a
total of $16.25 billion.  This critical program continues to provide
much-needed relief to music and arts venues.  My American Rescue Plan
also provided an additional $135 million each for the National Endowment
for the Arts (NEA) and the National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH)
and $200 million for the Institute of Museum and Library Services
(IMLS).  My proposed budget for Fiscal Year 2022 also includes
significant funding increases for the NEA, NEH, and IMLS.  Collectively,
these funds will help put people back to work and support our Nation’s
creators.

The arts can educate.  To build vaccine confidence and communicate the
benefits of vaccination in creative and culturally relevant ways, my
Administration has partnered with artists and cultural icons to
encourage Americans of all ages and from all corners of our Nation to
get vaccinated.  In this way, the arts can help us put an end to
COVID-19.  Thanks to the progress we are making with people getting
vaccinated, tens of millions of Americans can go back to plays,
concerts, and the movies.  The arts can also heal Americans, from those
who have suffered the traumas of loss or isolation during the pandemic
to veterans and service members returning from war.

The pandemic has further revealed to us deep and unacceptable inequities
in health care, education, and justice.  The arts and humanities reveal
the depths of these inequities and help us have the conversations and
address the challenges that can be difficult to confront.  The arts help
us express and process our hurt and outrage as well as our joy and
wonder — to better understand the experiences of our neighbors.  By
supporting and showcasing the creativity and experiences of those that
have too often been discounted, we can advance our realization of a
society that prioritizes equity and empathy.

This October, as we celebrate National Arts and Humanities Month, let us
turn to the arts and humanities as a way to help America heal and grow.
 Let us build back better by ensuring that our cultural workers and
creators are back at work and thriving.  Let us ensure that everyone in
America — regardless of race, geography, ability, and socioeconomic
status — has equal and unrestricted access to the arts and humanities,
and the opportunities they afford.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim October 2021 as
National Arts and Humanities Month.  I call upon the people of the
United States to observe this month with appropriate programs,
ceremonies, and activities.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirtieth day of
September, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.           

  JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
