---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-09-30'
modified_time: 2021-09-30 18:14:20-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/09/30/executive-order-on-continuance-or-reestablishment-of-certain-federal-advisory-committees-and-amendments-to-other-executive-orders/
published_time: 2021-09-30 18:30:00-04:00
title: Executive Order on Continuance or Reestablishment of Certain Federal Advisory
  Committees and Amendments to Other Executive Orders
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President, by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, and consistent with the provisions
of the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. App.), it is
hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1.  Each advisory committee listed below is continued or, to the
extent necessary, reestablished until September 30, 2023.

     (a)  Committee for the Preservation of the White House; Executive
Order 11145, as amended (Department of the Interior).

     (b)  President’s Commission on White House Fellowships; Executive
Order 11183, as amended (Office of Personnel Management).

     (c)  President’s Committee on the National Medal of Science;
Executive Order 11287, as amended (National Science Foundation).

     (d)  Federal Advisory Council on Occupational Safety and Health;
Executive Order 11612, as amended (Department of Labor).

     (e)  President’s Export Council; Executive Order 12131, as amended
(Department of Commerce).

     (f)  President’s Committee on the International Labor Organization;
Executive Order 12216, as amended (Department of Labor).

     (g)  President’s National Security Telecommunications Advisory
Committee; Executive Order 12382, as amended (Department of Homeland
Security).

     (h)  National Industrial Security Program Policy Advisory
Committee; Executive Order 12829, as amended (National Archives and
Records Administration).

     (i)  Trade and Environment Policy Advisory Committee; Executive
Order 12905 (Office of the United States Trade Representative).

     (j)  Governmental Advisory Committee to the United States
Representative to the North American Commission for Environmental
Cooperation; Executive Order 12915 (Environmental Protection Agency).

     (k)  National Advisory Committee to the United States
Representative to the North American Commission for Environmental
Cooperation; Executive Order 12915 (Environmental Protection Agency).

     (l)  Good Neighbor Environmental Board; Executive Order 12916, as
amended (Environmental Protection Agency).

     (m)  Presidential Advisory Council on HIV/AIDS; Executive Order
12963, as amended (Department of Health and Human Services).

     (n)  President’s Committee for People with Intellectual
Disabilities; Executive Order 12994, as amended (Department of Health
and Human Services).

     (o)  Invasive Species Advisory Committee; Executive Order 13112, as
amended (Department of the Interior).

     (p)  Advisory Board on Radiation and Worker Health; Executive Order
13179 (Department of Health and Human Services).

     (q)  National Infrastructure Advisory Council; Executive Order
13231, as amended (Department of Homeland Security).

     (r)  President’s Council on Sports, Fitness, and Nutrition;
Executive Order 13265, as amended (Department of Health and Human
Services).

     (s)  Interagency Task Force on Veterans Small Business Development;
Executive Order 13540 (Small Business Administration).

     (t)  State, Local, Tribal, and Private Sector (SLTPS) Policy
Advisory Committee; Executive Order 13549 (National Archives and Records
Administration).

     (u)  President’s Advisory Commission on Educational Excellence for
African Americans; Executive Order 13621 (Department of Education).

     (v)  President’s Advisory Council on Doing Business in Africa;
Executive Order 13675, as amended (Department of Commerce).

     (w)  Commerce Spectrum Management Advisory Committee; initially
established pursuant to Presidential Memorandum on Improving Spectrum
Management for the 21st Century (November 29, 2004) (Department of
Commerce).

     (x)  National Space-Based Positioning, Navigation, and Timing
Advisory Board; National Security Presidential Directive-39, “U.S.
National Space-Based Position, Navigation, and Timing Policy” (December
8, 2004) (National Aeronautics and Space Administration).

     (y)  Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monument Advisory
Committee; Proclamation 6920 of September 18, 1996, as amended
(Department of the Interior).

     (z)  San Juan Islands National Monument Advisory Committee;
Proclamation 8947 of March 25, 2013 (Department of the Interior).

     (aa)  Bears Ears National Monument Advisory Committee; Proclamation
9558 of December 28, 2016, as amended (Department of the Interior).

     (bb)  Gold Butte National Monument Advisory Committee; Proclamation
9559 of December 28, 2016 (Department of the Interior).

     (cc)  President’s Council of Advisors on Science and Technology;
Executive Order 14007, as amended (Department of Energy).

     (dd)  White House Environmental Justice Advisory Council; Executive
Order 14008 (Environmental Protection Agency).

     (ee)  President’s Advisory Commission on Asian Americans, Native
Hawaiians, and Pacific Islanders; Executive Order 14031 (Department of
Health and Human Services).

     (ff)  President’s Board of Advisors on Historically Black Colleges
and Universities; Executive Order 14041 (Department of Education).

     (gg) Presidential Advisory Commission on Advancing Educational
Equity, Excellence, and Economic Opportunity for Hispanics; Executive
Order 14045 (Department of Education).

Sec. 2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of any other Executive Order,
the functions of the President under the Federal Advisory Committee Act
that are applicable to the committees listed in section 1 of this order
shall be performed by the head of the department or agency designated
after each committee, in accordance with the regulations, guidelines,
and procedures established by the Administrator of General Services.

Sec. 3.  Sections 1 and 2 of Executive Order 13889 of September 27,
2019, are hereby superseded by sections 1 and 2 of this order.

Sec. 4.  Executive Order 11287 of June 28, 1966, as amended, is further
amended in section 2(a) by striking “twelve” and inserting in lieu
thereof “fourteen.”

Sec. 5.  Executive Order 12382 of September 13, 1982, as amended, is
further amended as follows:

     (a)  by striking section 1, except subsection (c), and inserting
before subsection (c) the following:

          “Section 1.  Establishment.  (a)  There is established the
President’s National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee,
which shall be composed of no more than 30 members.  These members shall
have particular knowledge and expertise in the fields of cybersecurity
and of information and communications technology (ICT) and shall
represent various elements of the Nation’s telecommunications industry.
 Members of the Committee shall be appointed by the President.

          (b)  The President shall designate a Chair and Vice Chair from
among the members of the Committee, each for a term of up to 2 years.”

     (b)  by striking sections 2 and 3, and inserting in lieu thereof
the following new sections 2 and 3:

          “Sec. 2.  Functions.  (a)  The Committee shall provide to the
President, through the Secretary of Homeland Security, information and
advice from the perspective of relevant cybersecurity, ICT, and
telecommunications industries on information assurance, cybersecurity,
and the ICT ecosystem with respect to national security and emergency
preparedness (NS/EP) concerns.

          (b)  The Committee shall provide information and advice to the
President, through the Secretary of Homeland Security, regarding the
feasibility of implementing specific measures to improve the resiliency
and security of the digital and communications infrastructure of the
United States.

          (c)  The Committee shall provide technical information,
advice, and recommendations as it relates to NS/EP policy issues
concerning cybersecurity, ICT, and telecommunications matters.

          (d)  The Committee shall periodically report on matters in
this section to the President, through the Secretary of Homeland
Security.

          Sec. 3. Administration.  (a)  The heads of Executive agencies
shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the Committee with
information concerning NS/EP policy issues specific to cybersecurity,
ICT, and telecommunications matters in order for it to carry out its
functions and mission.  Information supplied to the Committee shall not,
to the extent permitted by law, be available for public inspection.

          (b)  Members of the Committee shall serve without any
compensation for their work on the Committee.  However, to the extent
permitted by law, they shall be entitled to travel expenses, including
per diem in lieu of subsistence.

          (c)  Any expenses of the Committee shall, to the extent
permitted by law, be paid from funds available to the Secretary of
Homeland Security.”

     (c)  by striking section 4, except subsection (b) thereof, and
inserting immediately preceding subsection (b) the following:

          “Sec. 4.  General.  (a)  Notwithstanding any other Executive
Order, the functions of the President under the Federal Advisory
Committee Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. App.), which are applicable to the
Committee, except that of reporting annually to the Congress, shall be
performed by the Secretary of Homeland Security, in accord with
guidelines and procedures established by the Administrator of General
Services.”

Sec. 6.  Executive Order 13231 of October 16, 2001, as amended, is
further amended in section 3(a) by striking “The President shall
designate from among the members of the NIAC a Chair and a Vice Chair,
who shall perform the functions of the Chair if the Chair is absent or
disabled, or in the instance of a vacancy in the Chair” and inserting in
lieu thereof “The President shall designate from among the members of
the NIAC a Chair and a Vice Chair, who shall perform the functions of
the Chair if the Chair is absent or disabled, or in the instance of a
vacancy in the Chair, each for a term of up to two years.”

Sec. 7.  Executive Order 13265 of June 6, 2002, as amended, is further
amended as follows:

     (a)  in section 2(a), by striking “develop a national strategy” and
inserting in lieu thereof “continue to promulgate a national strategy
(the National Youth Sports Strategy).”

     (b)  in section 2, by striking the “and” at the end of subsection
(a)(iii); striking the period at the end of subsection (a)(iv) and
inserting in lieu thereof a semicolon; and inserting the following new
subsections:

          “(v)  expand national awareness of the importance of mental
health as it pertains to physical fitness and nutrition; and

          (vi)  share information about the positive effects of physical
activity on mental health, particularly as it relates to children and
adolescents, to combat the negative mental health impacts of the
coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic.”

     (c)  in section 4, by inserting after subsection (c) the following
new subsection:

          “(d)  The Council members shall function as liaisons and
spokespersons on behalf of the Council to relevant State, local, and
private entities, and share information about the work of the Council in
order to advise the Secretary regarding opportunities to extend and
improve physical activity, fitness, sports, and nutrition programs and
services at the State, local, and national levels.”

Sec. 8.  This order shall be effective September 30, 2021.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

THE WHITE HOUSE,

September 30, 2021.
