---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-09-30'
modified_time: 2021-09-30 11:14:17-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/09/30/a-proclamation-on-national-youth-substance-use-prevention-month-2021/
published_time: 2021-09-30 11:14:16-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on National Youth Substance Use Prevention Month,\_2021"
---
 
Far too many families across our Nation have been impacted by addiction
and the overdose epidemic.  In 2020, more than 93,000 people died from
an overdose — 93,000 families forced to bury a piece of their souls. 
The impact of this crisis echoes in communities across the Nation, in
the empty chairs in classrooms and around kitchen tables.  During
National Youth Substance Use Prevention Month, we reaffirm our
commitment to helping America’s youth overcome this epidemic and lead
healthy, fulfilling lives. 

The COVID-19 pandemic has only exacerbated the need to provide more
resources to address substance use disorder.  Substance use disorder
touches families in every community, and it is essential that we invest
in a broad range of services, including prevention, harm reduction,
treatment, and recovery support services for mental health and substance
use.

My Administration has been working to expand evidence-based prevention
programs along with access to care and recovery support services.  We
are committed to preventing substance use among our Nation’s youth —
including alcohol, tobacco products, illicit drugs, and misused
prescription medications — by bringing communities together to find
local solutions.  Through the White House’s Office of National Drug
Control Policy, the Drug-Free Communities Support Program helps equip
community coalitions to reduce youth substance use at the local level. 
We must continue to encourage parents, caregivers, educators, and other
members of the community to play an active role in promoting
evidence-based prevention efforts that encourage healthy lifestyles,
promote alternatives to substance use, and educate young people about
the harms associated with substance use.  We know that delaying
substance use until after adolescence, when the brain has fully
developed, decreases the likelihood of an individual developing a
substance use disorder.  We also know that smart investments in
effective school-based prevention programs save lives and save our
economy money in the form of averted medical costs and improved
productivity. 

My Administration is also committed to advancing racial equity in our
approach to drug policy — implementing fairer, more effective, and more
culturally resonant policies to prevent, address, and treat substance
use disorder.  That is why we are supporting the development of tailored
tools that strengthen prevention efforts in diverse communities.  These
include racial equity trainings, resources on inclusion and diversity,
and racial equity decision-making frameworks.  Our youth-focused efforts
must also account for the fact that poverty, homelessness, trauma, and
other adverse childhood experiences affect drug use and the overall
health of our Nation’s youth — especially with respect to people of
color, who are disproportionately impacted by these factors.  By
advancing equity in every part of our society — including our education,
health care, criminal justice, and housing systems — we can build a
future where all Americans can lead healthy and fulfilling lives.

This October, we honor all those who champion evidence-based youth
substance use prevention and recommit ourselves to ensuring that all
Americans have the skills, knowledge, and resources to live full and
healthy lives.  Substance use disorder is a disease, and I will do
everything within my power to expand access to evidence-based
prevention, treatment, harm reduction, and recovery support services as
well as reduce the supply of illicit drugs to keep more Americans safe.
 

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim October 2021 as
National Youth Substance Use Prevention Month.  I call on communities,
parents, caregivers, educators, employers, healthcare professionals, law
enforcement officials, faith and community leaders, and all Americans to
take action to promote evidence-based prevention and improve the health
of our Nation.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirtieth day of
September, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
