---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-09-03'
modified_time: 2021-09-03 16:41:43-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/09/03/executive-order-on-declassification-review-of-certain-documents-concerning-the-terrorist-attacks-of-september-11-2001/
published_time: 2021-09-03 16:41:42-04:00
title: "Executive Order on Declassification Review of Certain Documents Concerning\
  \ the Terrorist Attacks of September 11,\_2001"
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, I hereby order as follows:

Section 1.  Policy.  Many Americans continue to seek full accountability
for the horrific attacks of September 11, 2001 (9/11), including 9/11
survivors and victims’ family members.  As the 20th anniversary of 9/11
approaches, the American people deserve to have a fuller picture of what
their Government knows about those attacks.  Although the indiscriminate
release of classified information could jeopardize the national security
— including the United States Government’s efforts to protect against
future acts of terrorism — information should not remain classified when
the public interest in disclosure outweighs any damage to the national
security that might reasonably be expected from disclosure.  The
significant events in question occurred two decades ago or longer, and
they concern a tragic moment that continues to resonate in American
history and in the lives of so many Americans.  It is therefore critical
to ensure that the United States Government maximizes transparency,
relying on classification only when narrowly tailored and necessary. 
Thus, information collected and generated in the United States
Government’s investigation of the 9/11 terrorist attacks should now be
disclosed, except when the strongest possible reasons counsel otherwise.

Sec. 2.  Declassification Reviews.  The Attorney General and the heads
of any other executive departments and agencies (agencies) that
originated relevant information shall complete declassification reviews:

(a)  not later than September 11, 2021, of the Federal Bureau of
Investigation (FBI) electronic communication dated April 4, 2016, from
the subfile investigation described in chapter V of the 2015 Report of
the Congressionally-directed 9/11 Review Commission to the Director of
the FBI (subfile investigation), which was identified but withheld in
full during discovery in *In re Terrorist Attacks on September 11,
2001*, MDL No. 03-1570 (S.D.N.Y.);

(b)  not later than 60 days after the date of this order, of:

(i)   all other records that previously were withheld as classified, in
full or in part, during discovery in *In re Terrorist Attacks on
September 11, 2001*; and

(ii)  the 2021 FBI electronic communication closing the subfile
investigation;

(c)  not later than 120 days after the date of this order, of all
interview reports, analytical documents, documents reporting
investigative findings, or other substantive records (including phone
records and banking records, if any) from the FBI’s initial
investigation of the 9/11 terrorist attacks — known as the Pentagon/Twin
Towers Bombings (PENTTBOM) investigation — that reference the individual
subjects of the subfile investigation and may be found through search
terms, keyword identifiers, and other diligent means; and

(d)  not later than 180 days after the date of this order, of all
records from any separate FBI investigation other than the PENTTBOM
investigation or the subfile investigation of any individual subjects of
the subfile investigation that are relevant to the 9/11 terrorist
attacks or to any of the individual subjects’ connection to an agency
relationship with a foreign government.

Sec. 3.  Standards for Declassification.  (a)  Consistent with Executive
Order 13526 of December 29, 2009 (Classified National Security
Information), the Attorney General or the head of any other agency that
originated the information, as the case may be, shall be responsible for
conducting the declassification reviews and making declassification
determinations for information that originated within their respective
agency.  Information may remain classified only if it still requires
protection in the interest of the national security and disclosure of
the information reasonably could be expected to result in damage to the
national security.  Information shall not remain classified if there is
significant doubt about the need to maintain its classified status.  Nor
shall information remain classified in order to conceal violations of
law, inefficiency, or administrative error or to prevent embarrassment
to a person, organization, or agency.

\(b\)  Even when information requires continued protection in the
interest of the national security, the Attorney General or the head of
any other agency that originated the information, as the case may be,
should determine, as an exercise of discretion, whether the public
interest in disclosure of the information outweighs the damage to the
national security that might reasonably be expected from disclosure.

\(c\)  Upon the completion of the declassification reviews under section
2 of this order, the Attorney General and the heads of any other
agencies that originated relevant information shall ensure that, as to
all information subject to such reviews but not declassified pursuant to
such reviews:

\(i\)    such information meets the requirements for classification, in
accordance with Executive Order 13526;

\(ii\)   all non-classified information is disentangled from any
classified information and, to the extent practicable, made available to
the public under section 5 of this order; and

\(iii\)  all information is nonetheless declassified, in accordance with
section 3.1 of Executive Order 13526, or any successor order, when the
Attorney General or the head of any other agency that originated the
information, as the case may be, determines that the United States
Government’s interest in classification is outweighed by the public’s
interest in disclosure.

Sec. 4.  Report to the President and the Congressional Intelligence
Committees.  Upon completion of each review, the Attorney General, in
consultation with the heads of any other agencies that originated
relevant information, shall submit to the President, through the
Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs, and to the
congressional intelligence committees, reports on the results of the
declassification reviews completed under section 2 of this order,
including a justification for each decision not to declassify
information pursuant to such reviews.

Sec. 5.  Public Release.  Upon completion of each review, the Attorney
General, in consultation with the heads of any other agencies that
originated relevant information, shall make publicly available
information declassified as a result of the declassification reviews
completed under section 2 of this order, except for information the
disclosure of which would materially impair confidential executive
branch deliberations.

Sec. 6.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:

\(i\)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or
agency, or the head thereof; or

\(ii\)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

\(b\)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law,
including the Privacy Act, and subject to the availability of
appropriations.

\(c\)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

THE WHITE HOUSE,

  September 3, 2021.
