---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-09-13'
modified_time: 2021-09-13 12:21:43-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/09/13/a-proclamation-on-national-hispanic-serving-institutions-week-2021/
published_time: 2021-09-13 12:21:42-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on National Hispanic-Serving Institutions Week,\_2021"
---
 
Today, more than a quarter of American schoolchildren are Hispanic — and
the proportion of Hispanic Americans in our workforce is projected to
grow substantially over the next 10 years.  The educational success of
Hispanic Americans is vital to the future of our entire country; how we
as a Nation nurture that success will define our strength and stability,
our shared prosperity, and our competitiveness on the world stage for
generations to come.

For decades, Hispanic-Serving Institutions (HSIs) have played a key role
in preparing Hispanic American scholars, artists, researchers,
scientists, educators, and other leaders who make our communities and
our Nation stronger, more resilient, and more equitable.  HSIs advance
the foundational American ideals of equity and justice by preparing
graduates to contribute their God-given talents and help solve some of
the greatest challenges facing our Nation and our world.

To do this, HSIs are on the cutting edge, equipping students with the
knowledge and skills they need to compete in the 21st century economy
and carve out their place in the middle class.  In industry after
industry, HSIs empower the next generation of Hispanic American leaders
— while also celebrating and nourishing the diverse linguistic and
cultural backgrounds that make up the broader Hispanic community.

This work is essential to both the character and the economy of our
Nation.  Over the last 18 months, Hispanic Americans in every community
have helped carry us through the COVID-19 pandemic and spark an historic
economic recovery — as doctors and nurses, teachers and first
responders, essential workers who keep our country going, and in
countless other roles.  Hispanic Americans are core to our national
fabric, and HSIs are a critical resource in empowering and enriching
Hispanic students and our Nation.

Beyond academic and professional preparation, HSIs also positively
impact their communities.  I am especially grateful for the leadership
of HSIs in safeguarding the rights and dignity of Dreamers and
first-generation college students across our Nation.  It is my fervent
hope that the Congress will provide security to all Dreamers.  These
young people represent America’s strength — and our greatest
aspirations.  We cannot let them down.

Since I took office, my Administration has worked to support the health,
education, equity, and economic well-being of Hispanic Americans.  In my
first week as President, I signed an Executive Order establishing a
whole-of-government approach to advancing equity and racial justice. 
Additionally, my Administration moved swiftly to provide COVID relief to
HSIs, families, and small businesses through the American Rescue Plan —
a law which on its own is projected to cut Hispanic poverty in America
this year by 43 percent.  We have also reestablished the White House
Initiative on Advancing Educational Equity, Excellence, and Economic
Opportunity for Hispanics.  We still have a lot of work ahead of us, but
I am proud of the historic investments that my Administration has made
to lift up Hispanic Americans — and we will continue to fight for the
rights, dignity, and success of Hispanic Americans every day.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim September 12
through September 18, 2021, as National Hispanic-Serving Institutions
Week.  I call on public officials, educators, and all the people of the
United States to observe this week with appropriate programs,
ceremonies, and activities that acknowledge the many ways these
institutions and their graduates contribute to our country.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
thirteenth day of September, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-one, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-sixth.  

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
