---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-09-15'
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/09/15/a-memorandum-for-the-secretary-of-state-on-presidential-determination-on-major-drug-transit-or-major-illicit-drug-producing-countries-for-fiscal-year-2022/
published_time: 2021-09-15 14:37:02-04:00
title: "A Memorandum for the Secretary of State on Presidential Determination on Major\
  \ Drug Transit or Major Illicit Drug Producing Countries for Fiscal Year\_2022"
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States, including section 706(1) of the Foreign
Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Year 2003 (Public Law 107-228)
(FRAA), I hereby identify the following countries as major drug transit
or major illicit drug producing countries:  Afghanistan, The Bahamas,
Belize, Bolivia, Burma, Colombia, Costa Rica, the Dominican Republic,
Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, India, Jamaica, Laos,
Mexico, Nicaragua, Pakistan, Panama, Peru, and Venezuela.  
  
A country’s presence on the foregoing list is neither a reflection of
its government’s counterdrug efforts nor level of cooperation with the
United States.  Consistent with the statutory definition of a major drug
transit or major illicit drug producing country set forth in section
481(e)(2) and (5) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended
(Public Law 87-195) (FAA), the reason countries are placed on the list
is the combination of geographic, commercial, and economic factors that
allow drugs to be transited or produced, even if a government has
engaged in robust and diligent narcotics control and law enforcement
measures.   
  
Pursuant to section 706(2)(A) of the FRAA, I hereby designate Bolivia
and Venezuela as having failed demonstrably to make substantial efforts
during the previous 12 months to both adhere to their obligations under
international counternarcotics agreements and to take the measures
required by section 489(a)(1) of the FAA.  Included with this
determination are justifications for the designations of Bolivia and
Venezuela, as required by section 706(2)(B) of the FRAA.  I have also
determined, in accordance with provisions of section 706(3)(A) of the
FRAA, that United States programs that support Bolivia and Venezuela are
vital to the national interests of the United States.  
  
The ongoing drug addiction and overdose epidemic in the United States is
one of the foremost public health priorities of my Administration, and
addressing this epidemic will require both new domestic investments and
greater cooperation with foreign partners to target illicit drug
suppliers and the criminal organizations that profit from them.  While
creating our first-year drug policy priorities, my Administration
outlined a strategy that includes expanding access to prevention,
treatment, evidence-based harm reduction, and recovery support services
in order to curb the drug addiction and overdose epidemic.  The American
Rescue Plan Act of 2021 is an investment in these priorities, committing
nearly $4 billion to support behavioral health and substance use
disorder programs.   
  
My Administration’s Fiscal Year 2022 Budget request itemizes $10.7
billion to support research, prevention, treatment, evidence-based harm
reduction, and recovery support services, with targeted investments to
meet the needs of populations at greatest risk for overdose and
substance use disorder.  The Budget request also includes significant
investments to reduce the supply of illicit drugs originating from
beyond our borders.   
  
The United States is committed to working together with the countries of
the Western Hemisphere as neighbors and partners to meet our shared
challenges of drug trafficking and use.  My Administration will seek to
expand cooperation with key partners, such as Mexico and Colombia, to
shape a collective and comprehensive response and expand efforts to
address the production and trafficking of dangerous synthetic drugs that
are responsible for many of our overdose deaths, particularly fentanyl,
fentanyl analogues, and methamphetamine.  In Mexico, we must continue to
work together to intensify efforts to dismantle transnational criminal
organizations and their networks, increase prosecutions of criminal
leaders and facilitators, and strengthen efforts to seize illicit
assets.  In Bolivia, I encourage the government to take additional steps
to safeguard the country’s licit coca markets from criminal exploitation
and reduce illicit coca cultivation that continues to exceed legal
limits under Bolivia’s domestic laws for medicinal and traditional use.
 In addition, the United States will look to expand cooperation with
China, India, and other chemical source countries in order to disrupt
the global flow of synthetic drugs and their precursor chemicals.   
  
You are authorized and directed to submit this designation, with the
Bolivia and Venezuela memoranda of justification, under section 706 of
the FRAA, to the Congress, and to publish this determination in the
*Federal Register*.  
                            

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
