---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-09-24'
modified_time: 2021-09-24 10:28:09-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/09/24/a-proclamation-on-national-hunting-and-fishing-day-2021/
published_time: 2021-09-24 10:28:08-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on National Hunting and Fishing Day,\_2021"
---
 
On National Hunting and Fishing Day, we celebrate the time-honored
traditions of hunting and fishing and their role in providing people of
all ages and backgrounds the opportunity to enjoy the great American
outdoors.  From the earliest days of our Nation, hunting and fishing
have instilled respect for our long-cherished natural resources and
American ethic of conservation.  Passed on through generations, these
beloved pastimes bring families, friends, and neighbors together to bond
in the spirit of sportsmanship, cultivate respect for our lands, waters,
and wildlife, and provide peaceful sanctuary amid our Nation’s natural
wonders.  

During the COVID-19 pandemic, hunting and fishing have been especially
critical in providing a recreational reprieve for many Americans from
the stressors of these difficult times.  When entertainment venues,
stadiums, gyms, and local businesses were closed, hunting and fishing
afforded many Americans the opportunity to commune with nature and find
some semblance of normalcy. The majestic public lands and waters of our
country — and our responsibility to serve as good stewards of the
natural resources we have been blessed with — are even more appreciated
by those who took to the great outdoors as an outlet during the
pandemic. It is one of the reasons the Department of the Interior
recently announced the largest expansion of hunting, fishing, and
outdoor recreation opportunities on public lands in recent history.

Ensuring that public lands are available to every American for
activities like hunting and fishing is central to my Administration’s
“America the Beautiful” initiative — an ambitious goal to pursue a
locally-led and national, voluntary effort to conserve, connect, and
restore 30 percent of our lands and waters, by 2030.  We will continue
to carry out this program together with agricultural and forest
landowners; anglers, hunters, and outdoor enthusiasts; Tribal Nations,
States, and territories; local officials; and other important partners
and stakeholders in order to identify conservation strategies that
reflect the priorities of all communities.  This initiative is only a
starting point in our efforts to protect our environment and conserve
our resources for future generations.  We will continue to rely on
America’s sportswomen and men to pass on their love and respect for our
lands, waters, and wildlife to our children and grandchildren.

Hunting and fishing also play a large role in funding conservation
efforts, for example through fishing licenses and Duck Stamps — works of
art that for nearly a century have helped protect habitats for birds and
other wildlife.  These activities also fuel economic prosperity —
especially in rural communities — with more than 50 million Americans
hunting and fishing every year, creating over $200 billion in economic
activity and supporting over 1.5 million jobs.  The continuation of
these time-honored traditions will ensure that our lands and waters
receive the care and funding they need to stay accessible and
magnificent for all Americans.  Whether fulfilling a family tradition on
opening day of hunting season or a new angler catching their first trout
on a restored river, we will ensure that future generations have the
same opportunities to take part in these cherished pastimes.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim September 25,
2021, as National Hunting and Fishing Day.  I call upon all Americans to
observe this day with appropriate programs and activities.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-fourth day
of September, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.                         

    JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
