---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-09-30'
modified_time: 2021-09-30 22:21:27-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/09/30/a-proclamation-on-cybersecurity-awareness-month-2021/
published_time: 2021-09-30 11:32:15-04:00
title: A Proclamation on Cybersecurity Awareness Month, 2021
---
 
Our Nation is under a constant and ever-increasing threat from malicious
cyber actors.  Ransomware attacks have disrupted hospitals, schools,
police departments, fuel pipelines, food suppliers, and small businesses
— delaying essential services and putting the lives and livelihoods of
Americans at risk.  Any disruption, corruption, or dysfunction of our
vital infrastructure can have a debilitating effect on national and
economic security, public health, and our everyday safety. 

Since its inception, Cybersecurity Awareness Month has elevated the
central role that cybersecurity plays in our national security and
economy.  This Cybersecurity Awareness Month, we recommit to doing our
part to secure and protect our internet-connected devices, technology,
and networks from cyber threats at work, home, school, and anywhere else
we connect online.  I encourage all Americans to responsibly protect
their sensitive data and improve their cybersecurity awareness by
embracing this year’s theme:  “Do Your Part.  Be Cyber Smart.”

My Administration has worked to bolster the defense of our systems and
protect the Federal Government’s information and communications
infrastructure.  Earlier this year, I signed an Executive Order to
modernize and improve the security of our technology, including areas
like software security, information sharing, and Federal network
modernization.  The Executive Order also directs the Federal Government
to only acquire products that meet strong cybersecurity standards —
which, by spurring technology companies to raise the bar, will
ultimately improve the security of those products for all Americans.  

The reality is that most of our Nation’s critical infrastructure — from
transportation lines to energy suppliers to other vital fields — is
owned and operated by the private sector.  Therefore, the security of
our critical infrastructure depends on Federal, State, local, Tribal,
and territorial coordination with infrastructure owners and operators to
achieve greater strength and security.  My Administration is working
in close coordination with the private sector.  Earlier this year, we
began to establish strong cybersecurity goals that outline our
expectations for owners and operators of America’s critical
infrastructure.  We also launched a 100‑day initiative to improve
cybersecurity across the electric sector.  That initiative has already
resulted in more than 150 utilities that serve 90 million Americans
deploying or committing to deploy cybersecurity technology — and we are
now in the process of extending that initiative to gas pipelines.  My
Administration is also working with the international community to
elevate the profile of cybersecurity as a matter of global security
interest. 

We recently convened a meeting with corporate, nonprofit, and
educational leaders on how to protect their industries and our
infrastructure.  We are working closely with the private sector to share
information, strengthen cybersecurity practices, and deploy technologies
that increase resilience against cyberattacks.  My Administration has
also launched [StopRansomware.gov](https://www.cisa.gov/stopransomware)
to provide a one-stop resource for Americans to learn how to avoid
ransomware and the steps to take if their computer becomes compromised. 

During Cybersecurity Awareness Month, I ask everyone to “Do Your Part.
 Be Cyber Smart.”  All Americans can help increase awareness on
cybersecurity best practices to reduce cyber risks.  Whether you are at
home, school, or the office — a few simple steps can help keep you and
your online data safe and secure.  By limiting the amount of personal
information shared online, regularly updating devices and software, and
using complex passwords and multifactor authentication methods, our
entire Nation will be more resilient against the constant threat of
malicious cyber actors. 

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim October 2021 as
Cybersecurity Awareness Month.  Through events, training, and education,
I call upon the people, businesses, and institutions of the United
States to recognize the importance of cybersecurity, to take action to
better protect yourselves against cyber threats, and to observe
Cybersecurity Awareness Month in support of our national security and
resilience.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirtieth day of
September, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
