---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-09-30'
modified_time: 2021-09-30 11:10:10-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/09/30/a-proclamation-on-national-manufacturing-day-2021/
published_time: 2021-09-30 11:10:09-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on National Manufacturing Day,\_2021"
---
 
On National Manufacturing Day, we celebrate all that is made in America
and recognize the importance of our Nation’s manufacturers to every
aspect of our lives.  From the electronics we rely on, to the safely
packaged foods we eat, to the clothing we wear, to the appliances and
furniture in our homes, to the cars we drive — American manufacturing is
essential to our economy.  It employs over 12 million Americans directly
and many more indirectly — providing high quality jobs to communities
across the country and producing the highest quality goods in the
world. 

In the early days of the COVID-19 pandemic, our manufacturing sector was
upended — 578,000 manufacturing jobs were lost in 2020.  Supply chain
disruptions left our Nation short of lifesaving protective equipment,
ventilators, and other essential health equipment at a time when we
needed it most.  However, our Nation’s manufacturers and manufacturing
workers stepped up — refitting their operations to produce needed
materials and working long hours to make sure our Nation had what we
needed. 

The pandemic brought into even sharper focus the fragility of many of
our global supply chains, which were already subject to everything from
accidents and extreme weather to other countries engaging in unfair
trade practices.  In the name of our national and economic security and
in support of American-based companies, American manufacturing, and
American jobs — especially union jobs — I have committed our Nation to
building our own resilient supply chains.  That is why, during my first
days in office, I signed an Executive Order to support manufacturing,
rebuild our industrial base, and strengthen our supply chains — all
while creating good-paying, union jobs.  My order, *ensuring that our
future is made in all of America by American workers,* also strengthens
domestic manufacturing by directing Federal agencies to buy more
American-made products. 

My Administration has also called for historic investments in making our
supply chains more resilient as well as investments in new and cleaner
manufacturing technologies that will help us innovate and lead in
manufacturing in the 21st century.  The clean energy economy presents an
enormous opportunity to revitalize American manufacturing, maintaining
and creating good-paying, union jobs, while cleaning up the air and
water in communities across the country.  That’s why my Administration
is calling for investments to ensure that as we build everything from
wind turbines to electric vehicles and that they are made in the United
States with clean, American-made materials.  The Federal Government is a
major buyer in markets for goods and services.  One of the most
effective ways to support and grow American companies, put more
Americans to work, and to strengthen American manufacturing is to buy
American.  My Administration is making the biggest enforcement change to
the Buy American Act in 70 years, raising the amount of domestic content
required to be considered “Made in America” from 55 percent to 75
percent. 

My Administration has also invested in our Nation’s communities and the
manufacturing base that builds them.  Through programs like the
Manufacturing Extension Partnership, Manufacturing USA, and
opportunities sponsored by the Economic Development Administration of
the Department of Commerce, we are providing resources to support and
strengthen STEM education, infrastructure, technology hubs, and economic
opportunities for all people in every region of our country.

As we continue to recover from the pandemic and millions of Americans
return to work, there will be good opportunities available at all levels
of the manufacturing industry that will need to be filled over the next
decade. 

On National Manufacturing Day, we commit to strengthening and supporting
the American manufacturers and hardworking manufacturing employees of
today as well as the manufacturers and workers of the future.  We commit
to building a future that is made in America.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.,* *President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim October 1, 2021,
as National Manufacturing Day.  I encourage all Americans to look for
ways to get involved in your community and join me in participating in
National Manufacturing Day, and, most importantly, buy American.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirtieth day of
September, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
