---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-09-10'
modified_time: 2021-09-10 10:18:09-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/09/10/a-proclamation-on-small-business-week-2021/
published_time: 2021-09-10 10:18:08-04:00
title: A Proclamation on Small Business Week, 2021
---
 
The American entrepreneurial spirit is a defining quality of our Nation
which time and again has lifted us to new heights and carried us through
our greatest challenges.  Small businesses are not only the engines of
our economic progress — they are the heart and soul of our communities. 
During National Small Business Week, we celebrate our Nation’s small
businesses — the pillars of their neighborhoods

When the COVID-19 pandemic first struck last year, it posed a historic
challenge to America’s small businesses.  From coast to coast, in big
cities, small towns, rural enclaves, and Tribal communities, small
business owners and workers demonstrated remarkable courage and
resilience, adapting to sudden changes in our way of life and stepping
up to serve their communities.  Across the country, small businesses
extended helping hands to their neighbors during the pandemic’s darkest
hours, all while entrepreneurs and employees worked tirelessly around
the clock to keep their businesses afloat, make payroll, and ensure the
safety of their teams and customers. 

Despite the determination of our Nation’s small business owners and
their employees, the pandemic hit them hard.  Throughout 2020, empty
storefronts and goodbye signs hanging in windows could be found on Main
Streets across the country.  The pizza place that your kids loved best. 
The hardware store that always had the tool you needed.  The barber shop
that sponsored the local Little League team — and had the first dollar
bill it ever earned still framed on the wall.  The pandemic exacted an
incalculable toll not only on lives and livelihoods, but on far too many
small business dreams and family legacies.

To ensure that these community pillars have a fighting chance to reopen
and stay open, my Administration is delivering the loans and support
that our Nation’s more than 30 million small businesses and innovative
startups need.  The American Rescue Plan delivered billions of dollars
in economic relief to millions of small businesses — including programs
targeted to the hardest-hit industries such as restaurants and
performing arts venues.  We revamped the Paycheck Protection Program to
reach our smallest businesses, with more than 95 percent of the nearly
$300 billion in loans made during my Administration supporting small
businesses with less than 20 employees, reaching a higher share of
businesses in rural and low- or moderate-income communities than in the
previous two rounds of the program.  Through our Restaurant
Revitalization Fund, we provided an essential lifeline to more than
100,000 businesses across the country, delivering $28.6 billion in
direct support.  Last week, my Administration began accepting
applications for an improved COVID-19 Economic Injury Disaster Loan
program, which will put more than $150 billion in funding to work
offering long-term, low-interest loans that small businesses can use to
retain workers, make rent, and pay down more expensive debt.  In the
American Rescue Plan, we established the Community Navigator Pilot
program to create a network of trusted organizations, local governments,
and community champions to help underserved small businesses navigate
resources at all stages of their growth.

We have also fully vaccinated more than 64 percent of adult Americans,
so that more small businesses can reopen their doors and welcome back
their customers.  My Administration created a tax credit to help small
businesses — which employ nearly half of America’s private workforce —
give their employees paid time off to get vaccinated and recover.  

My Administration is also committed to nurturing small businesses that
have faced historic barriers in rural and urban America, including
businesses owned by veterans, women, and people of color — especially
Black, Latino, and Asian American businesses.  These entrepreneurs
continue to face persistent barriers to the capital, markets, and
networks they need to start and grow their businesses, and many were
left out of early rounds of relief in the earlier days of the pandemic.

To help ensure that small businesses in every community benefit from the
Build Back Better agenda’s landmark investments in our infrastructure,
we are strengthening our contracting programs for underserved small
businesses.  As part of this effort, I announced a Government-wide goal
to grow Federal contracting with small, disadvantaged businesses by 50
percent, translating into an additional $100 billion over 5 years.  By
ensuring that more disadvantaged small businesses can compete for and
win Federal contracts, we can boost job opportunities and economic
prosperity in every corner of America.

Our Nation’s small businesses define our communities, drive innovation,
and create the products and services that enrich our lives and solve
global problems to build a better and more sustainable world.  By
harnessing the power of our small business economy and equipping our
entrepreneurs with the tools and resources they need to innovate, adapt,
and grow, our economy will continue to build back better than ever
before.  America’s small businesses are up to the task.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim September 12 to
September 18 as National Small Business Week.  I call upon all Americans
to recognize the contributions of small businesses to the
American economy, continue supporting them, and honor the occasion
with programs and activities that highlight these important businesses. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
tenth day of September, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one,
and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred
and forty-sixth.

  
                              JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
