---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-09-16'
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/09/16/a-proclamation-on-national-pow-mia-recognition-day-2021/
published_time: 2021-09-16 10:36:47-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on National POW/MIA Recognition Day,\_2021"
---
 
When service members take an oath to defend the Constitution of the
United States, they do so knowing that they may be called upon to make
great sacrifices to ensure and sustain our shared values.  These
patriots accept those risks and rush to fulfill the mission, no matter
how harsh or dangerous the conditions.  They embody the best of the
American spirit.  For the families and friends who wait at home, anxious
for news of their loved ones, these sacrifices can cause great pain.
 For the families of the more than 81,600 service members who remain
missing in action — the pain and grief is compounded by a lack of
closure, and the hope that their sons and daughters, sisters and
brothers, parents, and grandparents will one day return home. 

On National POW/MIA Recognition Day, we remember the debt we owe to them
and to their families.  We pay tribute to our former prisoners of war
and recommit to the difficult but essential task of seeking out answers
for the families of those still missing.  We will always remember and
honor our Nation’s prisoners of war and those still missing in action,
and keep faith with our promise as a Nation to bring all of our heroes
home. 

Every day, the iconic black and white flag — a powerful symbol in
recognition of the heroism and sacrifice of American POWs and MIAs — is
flown above the White House.  It is a mark of reverence and of
solidarity with all those who await answers.  Each day, this flag flies
over memorials and cemeteries, on military installations, at local post
offices, and on the front lawns of homes across the Nation.  This flag
remains a symbol of America’s commitment to honor the sacrifices of all
those who serve.  

My Administration is committed to recovering and identifying Americans
missing from prior conflicts.  Our efforts are global, and we are
thankful for the continued cooperation of all partner nations who
advance these humanitarian efforts on behalf of American families.  Loss
and grief are hard enough without the added and too often prolonged pain
of uncertainty.  But this much is certain:  the United States will never
abandon the search for our service members missing and unaccounted for
in overseas wars.  They will never be forgotten.

During National POW/MIA Recognition Day, our Nation conveys eternal
gratitude to those who endured enemy captivity and those who made the
supreme sacrifice and have yet to return home.  We will stand with these
heroes, who gave their all to protect and preserve our freedoms, and
their families, who have kept the faith and longingly pursued answers
across these many decades. 

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim September 17,
2021, as National POW/MIA Recognition Day.  Along with my fellow
Americans, I salute our former POWs who overcame unspeakable indignities
to return home with honor.  For those who made the ultimate sacrifice
and never came home, America will work tirelessly to provide their
families and our Nation the fullest possible measure of accounting.  I
urge all Americans to observe this day of honor and remembrance with
appropriate ceremonies and activities.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this sixteenth day of
September, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.                            

  JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
