---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-09-30'
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/09/30/a-proclamation-on-national-clean-energy-action-month-2021/
published_time: 2021-09-30 11:16:08-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on National Clean Energy Action Month,\_2021"
---
 
In the months leading up to this year’s National Clean Energy Action
Month, nearly 1 in 3 Americans has seen their community struck by
weather disasters.  The climate crisis is here and is threatening the
safety and health of Americans across our Nation and people around the
world.  As the country continues to face droughts, heat waves,
wildfires, floods, and hurricanes, we recognize that the window to avoid
catastrophic outcomes is rapidly closing.  The science is undeniable,
and the cost of inaction is rising.  At the same time, winter storms and
hurricanes have tragically reminded us of the suffering and loss of life
that can occur when access to energy is cut off or disrupted.  During
National Clean Energy Action Month, we recognize the importance of a
clean energy future and the vital role we all have to play in working to
avert the climate crisis.  

Today, the energy sector accounts for more than 80 percent of United
States emissions.  My Administration has set ambitious and attainable
goals of reducing United States greenhouse gas emissions by achieving a
100 percent clean electricity sector by 2035 and reaching net zero
emissions economy-wide by no later than 2050.  The path forward is
clear:  we must move quickly and decisively to power America with clean
energy.  This will require investment and innovation and will result not
only in cleaner energy but also new jobs and lower bills.

That is why my Administration has been working aggressively to scale the
deployment of large-scale and rooftop solar, offshore and onshore wind,
and other clean energy technologies.  We are committed to investing in
American innovation to drive down costs and reduce our overall demand
for energy.  We are committed to upgrading, modernizing, and expanding
our power grid to include clean power and to ensuring our grid is more
resilient in the face of everything from extreme weather to cyber
attacks.  We are also investing in emerging technologies and bolstering
our domestic supply chain for batteries and other clean technologies so
that our clean energy future is made in America.  At the same time, we
are investing in the communities that are home to coal and fossil-fuel
power plants to create new good-paying job opportunities for the workers
who have powered our country and economy for over a century. 

While the Federal Government can leverage powerful tools to help our
Nation reach our climate goals, we cannot do it alone.  Every American
has a role to play in making smarter, more conscientious choices about
how we use power within our homes, offices, schools, and places of
worship.  Simple actions like turning off the lights when we leave a
room or upgrading our energy monitoring systems using tools like smart
thermostats can help conserve energy and save money on energy bills. 
These small, intentional acts can add up to significant savings. 

During National Clean Energy Action Month, we also recognize that for
too long, low-income communities and communities of color have borne a
disproportionate burden of pollution from fossil fuels and other
industries.  That is why I signed an Executive Order establishing a
White House Environmental Justice Advisory Council to prioritize
environmental justice and ensure a whole-of-government approach to
addressing current and historical environmental injustices.  Our goal is
to ensure that historically underserved communities also benefit from
clean energy. 

Throughout National Clean Energy Action Month, we recommit to acting on
the climate crisis with urgency and moving quickly toward 100 percent
clean energy, so we can create a safer, healthier, more prosperous
future for all Americans. 

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim October 2021 as
National Clean Energy Action Month.  I call upon the citizens of the
United States to recognize this month by working together to mitigate
climate change and achieve a healthier environment for all. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirtieth day of
September, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
