---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-09-30'
modified_time: 2021-09-30 11:27:46-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/09/30/a-proclamation-on-national-domestic-violence-awareness-and-prevention-month-2021/
published_time: 2021-09-30 11:27:45-04:00
title: A Proclamation on National Domestic Violence Awareness and Prevention Month,
  2021
---
 
For too long, domestic violence was considered a “family issue” and was
left for families to address in private.  That is why, decades ago, I
created and pushed for the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) to be
passed.  Today, we recognize the important roles of the public and
private sectors, non-profit organizations, communities, and individuals
in helping to prevent and address domestic violence and create a culture
that refuses to tolerate abuse.  Domestic violence affects millions of
people in the United States, causes significant harm to the physical and
mental health of survivors and their families, undermines their economic
stability and overall well-being, and is a stain on the conscience of
our country.  While significant progress has been made in reducing
domestic violence and improving services and support for survivors, much
work remains to be done to expand prevention efforts and provide greater
access to safety and healing.  During National Domestic Violence
Awareness and Prevention Month, we come together to reaffirm our
commitment to ending domestic violence and supporting survivors. 

Domestic violence is an abuse of power that tears apart the fabric of
relationships and families and undermines the well-being of communities.
 One in 4 women and 1 in 10 men have experienced sexual violence,
physical violence, or stalking by an intimate partner during their
lifetime.  Homicide is one of the leading causes of death in the United
States for women under the age of 44, and nearly half are killed by a
current or former male intimate partner.  During the COVID-19 pandemic,
domestic violence has become a pandemic within a pandemic, with many
victims facing the added pressures of increased economic insecurity,
increased time in isolation with their abusers, and limited contact with
their support networks.  This has made it even more difficult for
victims to access the lifesaving services and support they need. 

To strengthen our response to domestic violence and all forms of
gender-based violence, my American Rescue Plan allocated an additional
$450 million to increase support for domestic violence and sexual
assault service providers and to further assist survivors in their
short- and long-term transition away from their abusers.  It also
includes a historic commitment to funding culturally-specific
community-based organizations to address the needs of survivors in
historically marginalized communities.  My Administration also allocated
an additional $550 million for domestic violence shelters and supportive
service providers to develop and employ COVID-19 detection and
mitigation strategies and help survivors access health care during the
pandemic.  In the Fiscal Year 2022 budget, I proposed an historic
$1 billion for grant programs administered by the Department of
Justice’s Office on Violence Against Women, and more than doubled
investments through the Family Violence Prevention and Services Act.  I
was also proud to sign into law the Victims of Crime Act Fix to Sustain
the Crime Victims Fund Act, which increases resources available to help
thousands of survivors of domestic violence. 

To accelerate this progress, the White House Gender Policy Council is
working to develop our Nation’s first ever National Action Plan to End
Gender-Based Violence and the Council is collaborating with the
Department of State and other Federal agencies to update and strengthen
our Strategy to Prevent and Respond to Gender-Based Violence Globally.
 My Administration is also working to prevent and improve the response
to intimate partner violence in our military and pushing to strengthen
VAWA.  Authoring and championing VAWA remains one of my proudest
legislative achievements as a Senator, and its reauthorization is long
overdue.  Legislation to reauthorize and strengthen VAWA, which already
passed the House of Representatives with bipartisan support, would
reduce intimate partner homicides by strengthening common sense gun
laws, expand protections for Native American survivors, increase access
to safe housing, expand training for trauma-informed policing, and
support programs centered on restorative practices.  We are also
committed to reauthorizing the Family Violence Prevention and Services
Act to strengthen efforts to address domestic violence as a public
health issue and to increase support for life-saving services and
prevention programs across the Nation.

During National Domestic Violence Awareness and Prevention Month, we
honor the tremendous dedication of advocates and service providers,
honor the courage and resilience of survivors, and recommit ourselves to
standing with them for safety, dignity, and justice.  There is still
much work to do, and it will take all of us to do it.  We must
rededicate ourselves to creating a society where domestic violence is
not tolerated, where survivors are supported, and where all people have
an opportunity to thrive without fear of violence or abuse.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim October 2021 as
National Domestic Violence Awareness and Prevention Month.  I call on
all Americans to speak out against domestic violence and support efforts
to educate young people about healthy relationships centered on respect;
support victims and survivors in your own families and networks; and to
support the efforts of victim advocates, service providers, health care
providers, and the legal system, as well as the leadership of survivors,
in working to end domestic violence.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirtieth day of
September, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
