---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-09-10'
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/09/10/a-proclamation-on-national-grandparents-day-2021/
published_time: 2021-09-10 10:26:23-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on National Grandparents Day,\_2021"
---
 
On National Grandparents Day, we celebrate the important role
grandparents play in providing love, wisdom, and strength to their
families, and fostering greater understanding across generations. 
Grandmas and grandpas, abuelas y abuelos, nanas and pop-pops — through
their wisdom, their perseverance, and their unconditional love —
strengthen our family bonds.  They share with us who we are, where we
come from, and the experiences that have shaped their lives, and, in
many cases, shaped our Nation.

For Jill and me, there is no greater joy than spending time with our own
grandchildren.  They are the love of our lives, and the life of our
love. 

The COVID-19 pandemic has been particularly devastating to seniors, and
too many families have lost grandparents to the virus.  We mourn them as
a Nation.  To honor the memory of those we have lost and protect those
most vulnerable, we mobilized an historic vaccination effort.  Already,
we have fully vaccinated over 82 percent of all seniors and over 64
percent of all adults — allowing grandparents and their loved ones to
get back together safely. 

During the worst of COVID-19, we saw the bonds of love that grandparents
share with their families remain strong.  While the virus denied many
grandparents the opportunity to hug their grandchildren, we saw families
visiting grandparents outside a window, waving from a safe distance,
participating in car parades, or making video calls to stay connected.
 Grandparents and grandchildren were resilient and creative — sharing
recitals, sporting events, graduations, and other important family
milestones remotely.  Physically apart, we remained bonded by love,
faith, and the uniquely American spirit.  As we continue our fight
against the virus, we are once again able to enjoy the in person warmth
and care of our grandparents, and they can enjoy precious time with
their children and grandchildren. 

For many families, grandparents are the caregivers who provide trusted
support to parents and children alike.  They care for grandchildren
while their parents are at work, pick up grandchildren from school and
activities, and provide advice and comfort when needed most.  In
increasing numbers, grandparents have become primary caregivers when
parents cannot care for their children.  They sacrifice their own
retirement plans, and often strain their own health and financial
stability, to ensure their grandchildren continue to grow and learn
within the warm embrace of a loving family.

In 2018, the Congress enacted the Supporting Grandparents Raising
Grandchildren Act, which established an Advisory Council to Support
Grandparents Raising Grandchildren.  By the end of this year, the
Council will release their first report to the Congress, including
recommendations intended to advance change and improve support programs
for grandparent and kinship families of all ages. 

My Administration looks forward to the release of this report so that we
can use it as a guide to improve the livelihoods of grandparents and
other older relative caregivers.  As President, I am committed to
identifying unmet needs, highlighting systemic gaps, and providing
recommendations on how we can work together to improve the lives of
grandparents and the children they support. 

Thanks to our whole-of-government response, heroic frontline workers,
world-class scientists, and millions of Americans getting vaccinated,
many of us are able to hug our grandparents, and gather around a table
once again.  We still have more work to do, but we have learned to never
take time together for granted. If everyone does their part in getting
vaccinated — we will continue to create new, joyful memories.  We are
grateful for the blessing of that opportunity, and we hope every family
will cherish their grandparents today and every day.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim September 12,
2021, as National Grandparents Day.  I call upon all Americans to
celebrate the important role that grandparents play in the lives of
their families and the children they love.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
tenth day of September, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one,
and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred
and forty-sixth.  
                             

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
