---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-09-30'
modified_time: 2021-09-30 11:23:51-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/09/30/a-proclamation-on-national-breast-cancer-awareness-month-2021/
published_time: 2021-09-30 11:23:50-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on National Breast Cancer Awareness Month,\_2021"
---
 
During National Breast Cancer Awareness Month, we stand with the
courageous women and men who have been diagnosed with breast cancer and
honor those who have lost their battle to this terrible disease.  As the
second most common cancer affecting women, an estimated 1 in 8 women
will develop breast cancer over the course of their lifetime and 281,550
women will be diagnosed with breast cancer in the United States in
2021.  Cancer touches so many families across the country — including
ours.  It is up to all of us to continue fighting for a cure and to
ensure that every American has access to the quality care they need.

This year marks the 30th anniversary of the National Breast and Cervical
Cancer Early Detection Program, which provides free breast and cervical
cancer screenings to low-income, uninsured, and underinsured women in
every State, as well as many Tribal organizations and Territories.  To
find information on how to get screened through this program, visit:
[cdc.gov/cancer/nbccedp/screenings.htm](https://www.cdc.gov/cancer/nbccedp/screenings.htm). 
Early detection is one of the most important strategies for treating
breast cancer successfully, and regular screenings are the most reliable
way to detect it early.  The COVID-19 pandemic has disrupted many parts
of our lives, and has produced new deficits in breast cancer early
detection, so there is renewed urgency to getting these recommended
screenings scheduled, before a cancer has spread and becomes less
treatable.  I encourage everyone to maintain their scheduled screenings,
doctor appointments, and treatments without delay while observing
coronavirus safety measures. 

For decades, the medical community and advocates have helped our Nation
make great progress in the fight against cancer.  First Lady Jill Biden
is proud to be a part of that movement, having founded the Biden Breast
Health Initiative, which educated high school girls in Delaware about
breast health and helped them spread the word to their own families.
 Still, our Nation has a long way to go before this disease no longer
threatens American lives.  I am committed to doing everything I can to
bring together our cancer research community and give them the resources
they need to make progress in the prevention, detection, and treatment
of breast cancer.  That is why I have called for the creation of an
Advanced Research Projects Agency for Health at the National Institutes
of Health (ARPA-H) which would invest $6.5 billion to develop
breakthroughs that prevent, detect, and treat cancer and other deadly
diseases.  My American Rescue Plan also expands access to affordable
health insurance coverage, ensuring that more women are able to receive
these screenings and treatments without worrying about cost.

The Affordable Care Act (ACA) has expanded coverage to millions of women
who were previously uninsured and has given millions of women access to
preventive services, including screening tests such as mammograms with
no out-of-pocket costs.  Additionally, insurance companies can no longer
discriminate against women with pre-existing conditions, such as breast
cancer.  My Administration is committed to protecting and building on
the ACA to ensure that more people have access to quality, affordable
health care and to lifting the inequitable health burden that falls on
Black women. 

As we observe National Breast Cancer Awareness Month, we are united in
our commitment to ending breast cancer and improving the lives of all
those affected by this illness.  We applaud the advocates, medical
professionals, researchers, and caregivers who dedicate their lives to
making progress toward cures.  This month, we stand in solidarity with
breast cancer survivors across the country and reaffirm our commitment
to advancing research efforts that deliver hope to patients everywhere. 

More information on breast cancer is available at
[cancer.gov/breast](http://www.Cancer.gov/Breast).  Information
specialists at the National Cancer Institute are also available to help
answer cancer-related questions in English and Spanish at
1-800-422-6237. 

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim October 2021 as
National Breast Cancer Awareness Month.  I encourage citizens,
government agencies, private businesses, nonprofit organizations, and
other interested groups to join in activities that will increase
awareness of what Americans can do to prevent and control breast cancer,
and pay tribute to those who have lost their lives to this disease.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirtieth day of
September, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
