---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-09-30'
modified_time: 2021-09-30 11:21:37-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/09/30/a-proclamation-on-national-disability-employment-awareness-month-2021/
published_time: 2021-09-30 11:21:36-04:00
title: A Proclamation on National Disability Employment Awareness Month, 2021
---
 
When we passed the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) 31 years ago,
our Nation moved closer to fulfilling its foundational promise of
liberty, justice, dignity, and equality for all.  I was enormously proud
to co-sponsor the ADA as a member of the United States Senate — a truly
bipartisan effort that was personal to millions of families.  For more
than 60 million disabled Americans, the ADA is much more than just
a law.  It provides a vital source of opportunity and self-sufficiency,
allows for increased economic participation, and serves as a powerful
shield against discrimination in the workplace.  National Disability
Employment Awareness Month is a chance for us to celebrate workers with
disabilities and recommit ourselves to dismantling barriers to access
and inclusion in the workplace. 

This year, the Office of Disability Employment Policy in the Department
of Labor celebrates 20 years of helping advance opportunity for workers
with disabilities across the Nation.  As part of its mission, the agency
remains at the forefront of emerging challenges in the workplace, such
as developing comprehensive resources to ensure that workers grappling
with the long-term effects of COVID-19 have access to the rights
and resources they are due under disability law — including
flexibilities, tools, and accommodations in the workplace.  

Despite the progress our Nation has made in recent decades, people with
disabilities are still too often marginalized and denied access to the
American dream.  Americans with disabilities — particularly women and
people of color — have faced long-standing gaps in employment,
advancement, and income.  The COVID-19 pandemic has compounded these
inequities, as people with disabilities have faced heightened risks —
particularly the disproportionate share of people with disabilities
employed in the hardest-hit industries.  Our Nation will never fully
recover and rebuild unless every single community — including disabled
Americans — is fully included.

My Administration remains focused on ensuring that every single American
has the chance to thrive, succeed, and contribute their talents.  That
is why I have issued Executive Orders to advance diversity, equity,
inclusion, and accessibility to bolster career paths and promote
economic stability for Americans with disabilities.  I have proposed
eliminating outdated, discriminatory provisions in the Fair Labor
Standards Act that allow employers to pay disabled workers less than the
minimum wage.  Young people with disabilities in particular must be part
of an inclusive economic recovery so that they can find the fulfilling
careers, apprenticeships, and futures they deserve in every industry; to
that end, we must promote the technologies and tools, as well as the
attitudes, that foster welcoming work environments for young Americans. 
Our Nation’s future will be brighter and more secure when everyone is
dealt into the economy we build together. 

All Americans should be proud that we have made substantial progress
since the days before the ADA — when an employer could refuse to hire
you because of a disability, when a person using a wheelchair could not
take a bus or a train to work, and when a person with a disability could
be denied service in a restaurant or grocery store.  Now, 31 years
later, it is the shared responsibility of all of us to tear down the
barriers that remain for people with disabilities and to ensure that all
Americans have the chance to find good jobs and build good lives — for
themselves and for the good of our entire Nation.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim October 2021 as
National Disability Employment Awareness Month.  I urge all Americans to
embrace the talents and skills that workers with disabilities bring to
the national recovery and to promote the right to equal employment
opportunity for all people. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirtieth day of
September, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
