---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-09-09'
modified_time: 2021-09-09 10:24:20-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/09/09/a-proclamation-on-national-days-of-prayer-and-remembrance-2021/
published_time: 2021-09-09 10:24:19-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on National Days of Prayer and Remembrance,\_2021"
---
 
Twenty years ago, our Nation was forever changed.  On September 11,
2001, as ordinary people started their days in Manhattan, Shanksville,
and Arlington, cowardly acts born out of twisted hate stole 2,977
innocent lives, devastating families and communities.  People across the
world were shocked by the cruelty and horror of the terrorist act, even
as they were inspired by the bravery of the first responders.  Two
decades have passed since that day of terror, yet the trauma, the pain,
and the quest for justice — both personal and collective — still haunt
our memories.  Planes piercing buildings.  Smoke filling skies.  Towers
turning to dust.  The injured fleeing to safety.  The heroes rushing
toward danger. 

During the National Days of Prayer and Remembrance, we honor those who
lost their lives on September 11 — lives that will never be forgotten. 
We also commemorate the humanity and selfless sacrifice of the first
responders, service members, and ordinary citizens who banded together
to rescue survivors and build a community of support around those who
suffered unimaginable loss.  Even as we continue to recover from this
tragedy, we know for certain that there is nothing that America cannot
overcome.  Through sorrow, with God’s help, we find strength.  Through
remembrance, in God’s mercy, we find healing.  We move forward with
resolve, forever cherishing the memories of the souls who perished that
day.  

The seeds of chaos, planted that September by those who wished to harm
us, blossomed instead into fields of hope for a brighter future.  A new
generation of patriots — many of whom were just children on that bright
September morning, some of whom had not yet been born — now serve in our
Armed Forces, as law enforcement officers and firefighters, as
paramedics, in the halls of our Federal buildings, and beyond,
determined to build our country back better, safer, and more united.

During these National Days of Prayer and Remembrance, we solemnly
reflect on the freedom and tolerance that are part of our American
character.  We commit to preserving the memories of our fallen loved
ones with the same tenacity with which we uphold the American values
that are the root of our strength.  We pray for the victims and all
those who still mourn their loss.  May the power of prayer bring
comfort, and may God bless the United States of America.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim September 10,
2021, through September 12, 2021, as National Days of Prayer and
Remembrance.  I ask that people of the United States honor and remember
the victims of September 11, 2001, and their loved ones through prayer,
contemplation, memorial services, the visiting of memorials, the ringing
of bells, evening candlelight remembrance vigils, and other appropriate
ceremonies and activities.  I invite people around the world to
participate in this commemoration.  I invite the citizens of our Nation
to give thanks, in accordance with their own faiths and consciences, for
our many freedoms and blessings, and I join all people of faith
in prayers for spiritual guidance, mercy, and protection.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this ninth day of
September, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
