---
date: '2024-04-03'
published_time: 2024-04-03 17:13:33-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/04/03/remarks-by-president-biden-on-lowering-healthcare-costs-for-americans-2/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on Lowering Healthcare Costs for\_Americans"
---
 
Indian Treaty Room

12:00 P.M. EDT  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Kris, thank you, thank you, thank you.  First of all,
thank you for the courage you’ve shown over the years dealing with your
health issues but also for standing up here before the whole nation and
explaining to us what you’ve gone through.  It’s not easy to do.  
  
You know, trying to afford your expensive medications, from blood
disorders to asthma — millions of Americans — millions — have similar
stories: lying in bed at night literally staring at the ceiling
wondering what in God’s name will happen if their spouse gets cancer of
if their child gets sick or something happens to them.  Are they going
to have enough insurance?  Can they afford the medical bills they’re
going to have?  Will they have to sell the house to keep things moving?

You know, and you find out a big reason why we’re lying awake at night
with these questions is because the drug companies are charging
exorbitant — exorbitant prescription drug prices — higher prices than
anywhere in the world. 

When Bernie said it — I was listening in the back, Bernie.  You and I
have been fighting this for 25 years.  Finally — finally we beat Big
Pharma.  Finally.  (Applause.)  I’m serious.

I’m proud — (laughs) — I’m proud that my administration is taking on Big
Pharma in the most significant ways ever.

And I wouldn’t have done it without Bernie.  And Bernie got a — you
know, look, Bernie was the one who was leading the way for decades in
which we’re — why we’re here today.

You know, Bernie mentioned that Americans pay more for prescription
drugs than other advanced nation in the world.

If you want to — if you walk into a local drugstore here in America, the
prices are at least two to three times more for the exact same
prescription made by the exact same pharmaceutical company in Canada,
France, Italy, and even in Eastern Europe — all around the world.  But
not anymore.

For years, people have talked about how Medicare has the power to
negotiate for lower drug price — prescription drug prices the government
pays for, just like the VA does when they’re able to negotiate medicines
and — and needs for the veterans.

But we’ve tried and tried and tried.  And finally, with Bernie’s help, I
finally got my Inflation Reduction Act, which passed — and Bernie helped
get it passed.  Not one Republican in the entire Congress — this — this
did surprise me; I have to admit to you — not one single Republican
voted for it — not one single one — to give us authority to take on and
beat Big Pharma.

Take insulin for people with diabetes — it costs 10 bucks to make.  If
you add everything in terms of packaging and all the rest, you can argue
maybe $12 total.  And they’re charging as much as $400 a month.  Not
anymore.  Not anymore.  Seniors with diabetes will only have to pay $35
a month from this point on.  (Applause.) 

And, by the way, when I first got the law passed, guess what?  It
applied to every American — every American.  But the Republicans were
able to cut back on the fact that only — they only were not able — the
only thing they couldn’t defeat was seniors.

But I want to — I want those savings to be for every — every single
person in America, no matter what their age.  No one should pay more
than 35 bucks a month for insulin, period.

And, by the way, drug companies still make a significant pro- — product
— I’m — excuse me, significant profit because I said: Ten bucks to
make.  By the way, the guy who invented the drug didn’t want to patent
it because he wanted it available to everybody.  Well, it’s available
all right.

Look, folks, there’s a whole lot of prescription drugs that are ongoing
— undergoing the process of lower pricing.

Medicare is now able to negotiate lower drices — lower prices for some
of the costliest drugs that treat everything from heart disease to
arthritis.

This year alone, the law that’s already passed — it’s in the law now
that we signed — Medicare is negotiating

10 of the most costly drugs next year, and they’ll do that every year
beyond for the — it goes well beyond 50 drugs. 

Next year, it’ll be 15.  It isn’t just saving seniors money.  Along with
other reforms, it’s taxpayer money and we’re cutting the federal
deficit.  And people say, “Well, it’s costing money.”  Guess what?  It’s
costing the drug companies money. 

It cuts the deficit by $160 billion — $160 billion.  (Applause.)  No,
I’m serious.  Think about it.  Over the next 10 years — because Medicare
will no longer have to be — pay those exorbitant prices.  Instead of
paying 400 bucks, they’re paying 35 bucks.

But I think we should be more aggressive.  It’s time to negotiate lower
prices for at least 50 drugs a year.  We only have it — the law only
requires 10 now, and then 15, and it moves up.  
  
Along with other actions, we’re not only saving lives, but if we move
that number up, we’ll save taxpayers another $200 billion on top of the
$160 billion, because Medicare will not be paying these exorbitant
costs.  
  
It is a gigantic — and, by the way, the other guy talks about cutting
the deficit.  He increased the deficit more than any president has in
history.  And we’ve cut it.  
  
Look, in addition to the law we passed that will cap prescription drug
costs for seniors on Medicare starting in 2025 — it’s already the law —
doesn’t require anything else — because when I say these things, they
say, “You think you can get it done?”  It’s already the law.   
  
Every- — your drugs will not cost you — if you’re a senior on Medicare —
will not have to pay more than $2,000 a year, no matter what the drugs
costs.  And as you know — many of you unfortunately know or your parents
— some of the cancer drugs cost $10-, $12-, $15,000 a year.  Combined —
combined, they will not have to pay a penny beyond $2,000 a year. 
(Applause.)  And the drug companies will still make a lot of money.  
  
Folks, Bernie and I want to cap prescription drug costs at $2,000 a year
for every American, not just seniors.  (Applause.)

We’re here today to talk about how we’re lowering prices and cracking
down on un- — unfair competition in prescription drugs.  
  
I’m a capitalist.  Capitalism, though, without competition isn’t
capitalism;  it’s exploitation.  That’s what’s going on: exploitation.  
  
When Big Pharma doesn’t play by the rules, competitors can’t offer lower
prices for generic drugs and devices that carry that medication, so
prices are raised artificially.  I thank Bernie for leading the charge
to do something about this.

For example, asthma is one of the most common respiratory illnesses in
America.  Twenty-seven million Americans have asthma, including four
million children.  Asthma causes about one thou- — one million visits to
a hospital emergency rooms every year.

Nationwide, the cost of treating asthma is estimated to be $50 billion a
year — the treating the asthma — not the drug, treating the asthma.

If you have asthma, you will likely need an inhaler to breathe.  Now
this spring is here, the season and allergies are on — upon us.  We’re
on the rise even more.  More people with asthma need inhalers to
breathe.

You know, many asthma medications — many have — be on the market for
more than 25 years.  They cost less than $5 to make.  They cost less
than $5 to make, but the medication — the medication hasn’t changed at
all.  
  
Theoretically, if the drug company came with a new medicine that would —
they invested in a lot of money to find a better way, they di- — they
wouldn’t have to — they could argue that — another price.  But drug
companies have increased prices for asthma drugs up to eight times more
than the original cost.  And the mechanism is- — and the m- — the
mechanisms attached to the inhaler, the thing that makes it, you know,
go into your — into your nose or mouth, that is a device that Med- —
Medicare hasn’t changed much either.  
  
Look, these big companies try to keep generic companies away from
getting patents on devices that deliver the medication through the
inhalers.  
  
So, there’s two pieces.  It’s not just the — what’s in the inhaler. 
It’s the mechanism that allows it to go into your body.  
  
For example, they slightly changed the cap of an inhaler and they use
the new patent on that cap to block generic drug companies from being
able to enter the market.  It’s a big deal.  Playing these games with
patients and pricing, Big Pharma is able to charge Americans
significantly higher prices and pad their profits.  
  
Senator Sanders has pointed out one company sells an inhaler for 49
bucks in the United Kingdom.  You know how much they charge in the
United States for that one inhaler?  Six hundred and forty-five
dollars.  So, I take — $645.  
  
If you need that inhaler and you get on Air Force One with me, the next
time we go to London, you can get off and you can get it for —
(laughter) — no, I’m serious.  Think about that, though.  Just think
about that.  For the same exact medicine and the same exact device. 
It’s outrageous.

Another company sells an inhaler for $9 in Germany — $9 in Germany — and
we pay $286 here in the United States.  Nine bucks in Germany — same
outfit, same company, same device — and it’s 30 times more.  Thirty
times more.  I repeat: It’s outrageous.  And we’re doing something about
it, finally.  
  
Why in God’s name should an American pay $645 for the same inhaler sold
in the United Kingdom for $49 by the same outfit — the same outfit?

Bernie called out the drug companies during the congressional hearings. 
And you just heard from Lina Khan, the Federal — the Chair of the
Federal Trade Commission, who is working with the Food and Drug
Administration to crack down on these drug companies, and it’s a big
deal. 

As a result of all this action, some drug companies have withdrawn their
abusive patent listings for inhalers and other common products like
EpiPens.

You know, the last few weeks, some of the big drug companies have gotten
the message to reduce the prices for some asthma drugs.  Bernie is a big
reason why that’s happened.  In fact, three of the four largest
companies are capping the cost of inhalers for many patients — that can
be up to $600 out of pocket — at $35.  There’s some progress going on
beyond what we’ve done — the law.  But it’s about time. 

And — and going forward with more competition and more generic drugs in
the market, the price could be even less than it is now and coming
down. 

But that’s not all.  Because of all of you, my Inflation Reduction Act —
drug companies that raise prices more than inflation are going to pay
back Medicare the difference between what they charged and the inflation
rate.  This is based on the price of their drugs in 2021. 

That means consumers will pay less for prescription drugs, and they’ll
save taxpayers money and discourage companies from hiking prices faster
than inflation in the first place.  But we want to do more.

It’s time the drug companies pay rebates when they increase prices
faster than inflation — not just for seniors but for every single
American — every single American.  (Applause.)

And today’s announcement follows actions we’ve already taken to
significantly reduce the healthcare costs for average Americans.  We
took action to reduce the cost of hearing aids for millions of Americans
by as much as $3,000 for a pair of hearing aids. 

In addition, my administration is banning junk fees on health insurance
plans.  These are the plans that stick consumers with big unexpected
charges instead of covering the care they need.

Look, they ended up with fair surpri- — I ended up- — surprise medical
bills so hospitals that are in-network can’t send you a bill for an
out-of-network doctor that you didn’t choose or you would — haven’t even
been consulted.  I was in the hospital for a while years ago and that
happened.  

Kamala and I are protecting and expanding the Affordable Healthcare Act,
known as Obamacare, which, I might add, is still a big deal.  
(Applause.)

Today — thank God my mother wasn’t here — (laughter) — today, 21 million
Americans are covered through the Affordable Care Act, 9 million more
than when I took office.

I exact tax credits — we enacted tax credits to save an average of $800
per person per year, reducing healthcare premiums for millions of
working families whose coverage — who have coverage under the Affordable
Care Act.

Those tax credits, though, expire.  You can only get it for — through
this year.  And I’m calling on Congress to make tax credits permanent —
permanent for this process.  (Applause.)

And, folks, all of our progress is in stark contrast to my predecessor
and MAGA Republicans in — in the Congress.  They want to, quote — I love
their word they love — they want to “terminate” the Affordable Care Act
— I love it, “terminate” –my — as my predecessor says, kicking millions
of Americans off their health insurance.

And, by the way, the vast majority of these people would not be able to
get insurance because they have a preexisting condition. 

They also want to eliminate the Inflation Reduction Act, eliminate the
savings to lower prescription drug prices, and so much more.

During the last administration, my president ex- — my predecessor
exploded the national debt more than any previous president in the
history in a four-year term — more than any prev- — he talks about the
debt.  He exploded it more than any other president in a four-year term
with his $2 trillion tax cut that overwhelmingly — overwhelmingly
benefitted the very wealthy and the biggest corporations in America. 

Now he and his Republicans in Congress want to cut Social Security —
raise the age — and cut Medicare while they cut taxes for the very
wealthy again.

You know, I got a better idea.  I’m going to protect Social Security and
Medicare, along with Bernie and other members of Congress, to make sure
the wealthy begin to pay their fair share to keep these programs
solvent.  (Applause.)  It’s not hard. 

And let me repeat what I said that even some people, like Bernie, didn’t
like at the beginning — and I don’t blame them — but I said on day one,
to make a point: No one in America will pay a single penny more in
federal taxes if they make under — less than — if they make less than
$400,000 a year. 

I wish I was able to do that.  I was listed — and Bernie will — used to
kid me about it — I was listed as the poorest man in Congress for 36
years.  I didn’t think I was poor.  I got a good salary.  But I was the
poorest man in Congress.

Trump brags about he is the reason Roe v. Wade was overturned.  And
here’s his quote: “I did something no one thought possible.  I got rid
of Roe v. Wade.”  End of quote.

And now he and his MAGA officials are calling on a nat- — for a national
ban on the right to choose in every state.

I promise you: With a Democratic Congress, Kamala and I will make Roe v.
Wade the law of the land again.  I promise you.  (Applause.)

I’m talking too long here.  Let me close with this.  (Laughter.)  I’m
excited about this.  I’m really proud of what we’ve been able to do.  I
really am.

Bernie and I have been doing this work for a long time.  I know we don’t
look it, but we’ve been doing it a long time.  (Laughter.)  Bernie and I
have something else in common: We both married way above our stations.

But any rate, but we know we’ve made historic progress in the last three
years: 35 bucks for insulin for seniors, $35 for inhalers for asthma,
$2,000 a year total cap on costs for seniors.

We’re lowering the cost of some of the most expensive prescription drugs
for seniors.

And what I want to do next — what we want to do next is these caps on
costs for everyone — everyone, not just seniors.

With Bernie’s help, we’re showing how healthcare ought to be a right and
not a privilege in America.  And that’s why I’ve never been more
optimistic about — I really mean it.  You’ve heard me say in this very
room how optimistic I am.  I am optimistic because the laws we got
passed are now coming into effect, whether it’s the infrastructure or
whether it’s this.  I mean, there’s so much more.

I just have — we have to — and I said this many times and I’ll get out
of your hair.  You know, we have to remember who we are.  We’re the
United States of America.

I mean — I mean these things from the bottom of my heart.  We’re the
United — there is nothing beyond our capacity when we do it together. 
We’re the only nation — as a student of history — that I can find that’s
come out of every crisis we’ve entered stronger than we went in.  Every
single time.  So, let’s remember who the hell — we’re the United States
of America. 

God bless you all.  And may God protect our troops.  (Applause.)

12:17 P.M. EDT
