---
date: '2024-04-22'
published_time: 2024-04-22 17:39:11-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/04/22/remarks-by-president-biden-to-commemorate-earth-day-triangle-va/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden to Commemorate Earth Day | Triangle,\_VA"
---
 
Prince William Forest Park  
Triangle, Virginia

2:54 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT:  Hello, hello, hello.  (Applause.)   
  
Thank you, Za’Nyia, for sharing your story that embodies the spirit of
Earth Day.   
  
On this day 54 years ago, with literally toxic rivers burning, air
filled with pollution, millions of Americans from every age and
background rallied together to stand for our environment and for future
generations.   
  
I got to know Senator Gordan Nelson — Gaylord Nelson, excuse me — from
Wisconsin when I got to the Senate.  And he organized the first Earth
Day.  I later introduced the first climate bill in the United States
Senate.  And all these years later, as president, I was able to sign
into law the Inflation Reduction Act, the most si- — (applause) — the
most significant \[climate\] investment every anywhere in the history of
the world, and we’re just getting started.  
  
Earth Day pushed the country forward, leading to Environmental
Protection Agency, and we’re fortunate enough to have with us the EPA
Administrator Michael Regan.  Where are you, Michael?  (Applause.) 
Stand up.  Get up.  Get up.  
  
I stole him from Carolina.  We’re not letting him go back. 
(Laughter.)  
  
And we’re joined by our great Secretary of Interior, Deb Haaland. 
(Applause.)  Deb, stand up.  The first Native American ever to serve in
a Cabinet.  (Applause.)  
  
And AmeriCorps CEO Michael Smith — Michael, where are you?  There y- —
(applause) — joined by members of the Congress, including Ed Markey of
Massachusetts, who, by the way, thought this was an important idea a
long time ago and talked about dealing with the Climate Corps — one —
needed one.  Ed, we owe you a lot, pal.  We owe you a lot. 
(Applause.)  
  
And Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, who understands what beautiful
territory looks like up in Vermont and has done everything in his power
to protect it.  Bernie, you’re the best.  (Applause.)  
  
And Representative Ocasio-Cortez of New York — you know, I learned a
long time ago: Listen to that lady.  (Laughter.)  Listen to that lady. 
We’re going to talk more about another part of the world too, real
quickly.  
  
Look, joined by all of you advocates and community leaders, that’s —
this is a good day.  
  
It’s fitting to be here in Pric- — Prince William Forest Park.  On March
31, 1933, during the Great Depression, President Franklin Delano Roose-
— Roosevelt created the the <s>Climate</s> \[Civilian\] Conservation
Corps, which is talked about a little bit, to put Americans to work to
conserve our country’s natural resources. Thousands — thousands of young
Americans from the Civilian Conservation Corps built this park,
providing jobs, recreation, hope, and healing at the time.    
  
We know today we face another kind of existential threat that requires
equally bold and clear action.  As President, I’ve seen the devastating
toll of climate firsthand.  Since I’ve been president, I’ve flown over
all the major fires and the thousands upon thousands of acres that have
burned flat by wil- — wildfires — more acres than the entire state of
Maryland combined.  I’ve met with families whose homes were wiped off
the map by devastating hurricanes, floods, and storms.   
  
Last year was <s>Earth Day’s</s> \[the Earth’s\] hottest day \[year\] on
record.  And over the last two years, natural disasters and extreme
weather in America have caused $270 billion — $270 billion in damages. 
And the impacts we’re seeing — decades in the making because of inaction
— are only going to get worse, more frequent, ferocious, and costly.  
  
But since Kamala and I took office, we’ve been acting.  And today, I’m
proud to announce two major steps forward.   
  
The first: Energy costs are among the biggest costs for families to
budget, particular poor and middle-income families.  In fact, low-income
families can spend up to 30 percent of their paychecks on their energy
bills.  It’s outrageous.   
  
To reduce family energy costs for folks with low and moderate incomes
today, the Environmental Protection Agency will invest $7 billion from
my Inflation Reduction Act in a new program called “Solar for All.” 
(Applause.)   
  
It will award grants — 60 grants across the country to states,
territories, Tribal governments, municipalities, and nonprofits to
develop programs that enable low-income and disadvantaged communities to
benefit from residential solar power.  And it’s a big deal.   
  
This new Solar for All program means that 900,000 households — 900,000
will have solar on their rooftops for the first time and soon.  Millions
of families will save over $400 a year on utility bills.  And that’s
$350 million nationwide.  My dad said it matters what’s there at the end
of the — end of the paycheck.  But a month is out, do you have anything
left?  
  
It means we’ll cut more than 5 million metric tons of carbon pollution
annually.   
  
And, folks, Solar for All will give us more breathing room and cleaner
breathing room.  It’s going to also create 200,000 good-paying and union
jobs over the five — (applause) — over the five years in communities
that need them most: fenceline communities.   
  
You know, as I always say, I think about climate — when I think about
it, I think not only about health and safety, but I think about jobs. 
And that brings me to my second announcement.    
  
Last fall, I talked about a historic new program that my administration
is launching, with the help of my colleagues on my right here, called
the Cl- — the American Climate Corps.  As I said — and I’m not being
solicitous — Ed — Ed Markey talked about that long before — long
before.  
  
It’s patterned after the Civilian Conservation Corps and the Peace Corps
and <s>America Corps</s> \[AmeriCorps\]. Like them, it brings out the
best in young people to do what’s best for America and will put tens of
thousands of young people to work at the forefront of our climate
resilience and energy future — clean energy future.   
  
Today, I’m proud to announce that Americans across the country can now
apply — now apply to become the first members of the American Climate
Corps.  We’re recru- — (applause) — we’re recruiting for over 2,000
positions in 36 states to start with — in Washington D.C., Puerto Rico,
with many on the way.  Just go to ClimateCorps — as mentioned already,
ClimateCorps.gov to apply.  You’ll get paid to fight climate change,
learning how to install those solar panels, fight wildfires, rebuild
wetlands, weatherize homes, and so much more that’s going to protect the
environment and build a clean energy economy.   
  
To ensure a pathway to good union jobs and careers, you’ll have access
to pre-apprenticeship training through a new partnership we’re
announcing today with the North American Building <s>Trade Unions</s>
\[Trades Union\]. And when y- — (applause) —  
  
As you may remember, when I announced in 2020, I initially didn’t
announce my climate position until I talked to the unions, because
unions were all ag- — they thought climate cost them jobs.  Well, guess
what?  IBEW stepped up, and they all stepped up, and now our strongest
support comes from union members.  (Applause.)  
  
When you finish your service — when you finish your term of service,
you’ll also be eligible for a streamlined path to federal government
jobs related to climate and clean energy.    
  
We’re also announcing a new collaboration with Bloomberg Philanthropies
that puts American Climate Corps members in energy communities — like
former coalmining communities, power plant communities — that have
powered our nation but have been fenceline communities that have hurt
very badly for generations.   
  
Today — today’s announcement builds upon an unprecedented and historic
action we’ve already taken to tackle the climate crisis, deliver
environmental justice, and build a clean energy future.  Just look at
the last few weeks alone.   
  
To ensure clean <s>energy</s> \[air\], we issued new standards for
chemical plants that emit toxic pollution.  Now, (inaudible).  
  
And because of the Clean Air Act, we’re going to reduce the number of
people at risk for cancer in fenceline communities who have been
smothered for decades by pollution by 96 percent, according to the
studies.    
  
And by the way, parenthetically, you know, my state of Delaware, which
everybody thinks is a wealthy state — I lived in a place called
Claymont, Delaware.  It’s in that arc that goes up into Philadelphia —
into Pennsylvania and to the Delaware River.  More — more energy plants,
more oil refin- — refineries than anywhere, including Houston, Texas. 
And I lived in just — literally, the school I went to was literally a
quarter mile from that border.  
  
And the prevailing winds were southeast, where we lived.  So, there was
never any incentive for the Pennsylvanians to move to do something, but
it affected Delaware.  And we had the highest cancer rate in the 1970s
of any nation — any state in the nation.  And guess what?  A lot of us
from — me included, ended up with bronchial asthma and many other
diseases.   
  
Fenceline communities are the ones we have to help first, because
they’ve been taking the brunt of all this.  
  
To ensure clean drinking water, we issued the first-ever national
drinking water standard that’ll protect people from exposure to harmful
substances known as “forever chemicals.”   
  
And after 30 years of inadequate protections, we finally are going to
put a ban on asbestos, which we know causes cancer.  (Applause.)    
  
It’s all part of a plan to reassert America’s climate leadership.  
  
We rejoined the Paris Agreement and sparked a domestic clean energy
manufacturing boom, providing incentives for 80,000 farmers to implement
climate-smart agricultural practice.  So, plant what absorbs carbon from
the air and get them — pay them for doing it.     
  
We’ve quadrupled the number of electric vehicles sold, and 11,000
dealerships have now signed up to sell more.  
  
We’re modernizing our infrastructure with better roads and highways and
energy grids and more so they can withstand and recover from extreme
weather.   
  
Already underway, we’re replacing every single lead pipe in America so
everyone can turn on a faucet, home or at school, and drink clean water
that doesn’t contain lead.  (Applause.)  
  
We’re also <s>reduting</s> \[reducing\] flood risk for communities,
improving drought re- — resilience, and conserving 41 million acres of
our most precious and sacred lands and water.

I committed that I’m going to try to reserve — take — of all
non-developed land and waters, we’re going to take 30 percent of it by
2030 and make sure it is conserved, period.  We’re well on our way. 
(Applause.)  
We’ve already attracted nearly $700 billion in private sector
investments in advanced manufacturing and clean energy, creating tens of
thousands of jobs here in America.   
  
And all across the board, we’re lifting up communities and workers too
often left out in urban, rural, suburban, Tribal communities all across
the country.  
  
But, folks, despite the overwhelming devastation in red and blue states,
there are still those who deny climate is in crisis.  Our MAGA
Republican friends don’t seem to think it’s in crisis.  They don’t —
they don’t want our — they actually want to repeal the Inflation
Reduction Act, which provides the funding for a vast majority of these
projects, and roll back clean air — protections for clean air and clean
water.   
  
And y- — I’m not going to go into it now, but you — I’m not making it
up.  It’s real.  Just listen to what they say.

Anyone in or out of government who willfully denies the impacts of
climate change is condemning the American people to a very dangerous
future — and the world, I might add.  They want to take us backwards,
sideline our workers, let China and others lead the race for clean
energy.   
  
I’m determined — absolutely determined — that we move forward — we move
forward.  (Applause.)  
  
Let me close with this.  In 1933 — and it was referenced by the
congresslady — that when Roosevelt outlined the Civilian Conservation
Corps, he said, quote — and I’m quoting — “More important than the
material gains will be the moral and spiritual value of such work.”  He
always put it in the context that went beyond just what the immediate
need was. 

I’d say the same holds true for what we’re doing here today.  It has a
moral imperative.   
  
And I’ve never been more optimistic about America’s future.  We just
have to remember who we are.  We’re the United States of America.  And
there is nothing — nothing beyond our capacity if we work together. 
(Applause.)   
  
And so, happy Earth Day, folks.  (Applause.)  And God bless you all. 
And may God protect our troops.  
  
We’re going to get this done, I promise you, come hell or high water. 

Thank you, thank you, thank you.  (Applause.)

Come on up.

All right, guys.  Let’s get this done.  Okay?  (Applause.)  All right.

God bless you all.   
  
Thank you, thank you, thank you.  (Applause.)

3:08 P.M. EDT
