---
date: '2024-04-20'
modified_time: 2024-04-22 14:02:20-04:00
published_time: 2024-04-20 10:37:52-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/04/20/remarks-as-prepared-for-delivery-by-first-lady-jill-biden-at-the-university-of-colorado-anschutz-medical-campus/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks as Prepared for Delivery by First Lady Jill\_Biden at the University\
  \ of Colorado Anschutz Medical\_Campus"
---
 
Aurora, Colorado

Thank you, Lieutenant Governor Primavera. You’re a fighter and a true
champion for the people of Colorado. Dianne, you took my breath away
last night – it was cold and late, very late, and you were out at the
airport to welcome me to Colorado – your service knows no bounds. Thank
you.

Today marks 25 years since 12 students and a teacher were killed in the
shooting at Columbine. And, in this community, almost 12 years ago, that
same pain ripped through Aurora.

This has to stop. Enough funerals. Enough death.

President Biden knows that. And that’s why he’s doing everything he can
to protect our communities. But he can’t do it alone. Congress must act
to end this senseless gun violence. 

Please join me in a moment of silence.

Thank you.

Mayor Coffman, thank you for helping us make women’s health research a
priority for the women of Aurora. You have dedicated yourself to
common-sense solutions for the people of Colorado, and the President and
I applaud your leadership.

President Saliman – the University of Colorado is making a tremendous
difference. We are at an incredible inflection point, ready to make
significant advances in this women-focused research and your leadership
will help lead the way.

Thank you all for joining us today, for giving me part of your precious
weekend.

If you ask any woman in America about her healthcare, she probably has a
story to tell. You know her. You may even be her.

She’s the woman who gets debilitating migraines, but doesn’t know why,
and can’t find treatment options that work for her.

She’s the woman going through menopause, who visits her doctor and
leaves with more questions than answers, even though half the country
will go through menopause at some point in their lives.

She’s the woman whose heart attack isn’t recognized because her symptoms
don’t look like a man’s, even as heart disease is the leading cause of
death among women.

This is why we are here today.

Too many of our medications, treatments, and medical school textbooks
are based on men and their bodies. And that’s because research on
women’s health has always been underfunded and understudied.

Even though we’ve made great strides in the last 20 years, women are
still seeking health care in a medical world largely designed for men. 

In November, President Biden changed that. He launched the White House
Initiative on Women’s Health Research to fundamentally transform how our
country approaches and funds women’s health research.

Joe called on Congress to invest $12 billion into women’s health
research at this year’s State of the Union.

And we’re pushing forward innovation that could be life-changing for
women. We’re making sure that when the government funds research, that
work includes women from the beginning. And when we make discoveries,
those ideas get to the women and families waiting for answers.

That’s the power of research: to investigate and innovate, to help and
heal, to build a better health care system. 

Somewhere in this room may be the idea that will cure cancer, cure heart
disease, cure Alzheimer’s.

Heart health, brain health, chronic diseases – you might just have the
answers if only we dissolve the barriers standing in your way.

Through the White House Women’s Health Research Initiative, we begin to
do just that.

We will write new stories about women’s health care. Ones where women
leave doctors’ offices with more answers than questions. Where no woman
or girl has to hear that, “it’s all in your head,” or, “it’s just
stress” ever again.

Where women don’t just survive, they lead long, healthy, and happy
lives.

Thank you.

\###
