---
date: '2024-04-16'
modified_time: 2024-04-16 09:49:21-04:00
published_time: 2024-04-16 14:15:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/04/16/remarks-as-prepared-for-john-podesta-columbia-global-energy-summit/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks as Prepared for John Podesta Columbia Global Energy\_Summit"
---
 
New York, New York

Thanks so much, Jason. It’s great to be with all of you today. I want to
commend the Columbia Center on Global Energy Policy for everything you
do to advance the policy conversation on the most pressing global
climate and clean energy issues.

We’re coming together at a moment when the realities of the climate
crisis have never been more clear—and when our ability to address those
realities has never been greater.

*I. Climate Imperative*

July of last year was the hottest month on record. 2023 was the hottest
year on record. Last month was the hottest March on record.

And each month in between July and March was the hottest ever recorded
on our planet.

Meanwhile, the ocean—which absorbs the majority of the Earth’s
warming—has been shattering temperature records for over a year.

This isn’t a fluke—this is the climate crisis. And it’s affecting all
corners of the globe.

Let’s just take one of the most common—and the most deadly—consequences:
extreme heat.

According to a World Weather Attribution study, climate change made the
scorching heat wave in West Africa in February ten times more likely.

Last year, one single heat event in India killed more than 100
people…and Iran hit a heat index of 152 degrees Fahrenheit or 67 degrees
Celsius—nearing the limit for human survival.

Here in the United States, Phoenix had 31 straight days of temperatures
at or above 110 degrees Fahrenheit last summer—contributing to nearly
600 deaths.

And in Europe—the fastest warming continent in the world—more than
61,000 people are estimated to have succumbed to the record-breaking
summer heat of 2022.

These are not future projections. This is happening right now.

The economic toll in developed and developing countries alike is
staggering.

Meanwhile, global emissions keep rising—reaching a record level last
year.

While it’s true that we have made progress since Paris…we still have a
lot more work to do to ensure a safe future for humanity.

*II. Era of Climate Action*

President Biden and Vice President Harris have taken on the climate
crisis from Day 1…

By rejoining the Paris Agreement and making climate a top priority in
international diplomacy…

By mobilizing a whole-of-government approach to cutting carbon pollution
across every sector…in power…transportation
…buildings…industry…agriculture and forestry…

And by passing the Inflation Reduction Act—the largest investment in
climate and clean energy in history.

The law is unleashing private sector deployment of clean energy while
boosting innovation to develop the next generation of technologies that
we’ll need to get to net zero.

In the time that President Biden has been in office, private companies
have announced over $380 billion in new clean energy investments.

And just since the IRA passed, over 270,000 clean energy jobs have been
created across the nation.

All in all, the Inflation Reduction Act, the Bipartisan Infrastructure
Law, and strong new emission reduction standards in the power and
transportation are putting America on a path to reach President Biden’s
climate goal of cutting our carbon pollution in half by 2030.

Here in the United States, we’ve backed up our ambition with action—and
we need to see that around the world as well.

New climate targets—Nationally Determined Contributions, or NDCs—are due
to be submitted under the Paris Agreement early next year.

Those NDCs need to be aligned with a 1.5 degree world. And while
ambitious NDCs are necessary, they are not sufficient.

They need to be backed up with domestic policies that spur innovation
and accelerate deployment of clean energy in countries at all stages of
development.

Even as we invest in America to build a clean energy economy—and even as
we work with our allies and partners to build more resilient, secure
clean energy supply chains—we have no intention of pulling the ladder up
behind us.

*Every* nation deserves the ability to build a clean energy economy that
will protect its own citizens and support long-term growth…

The ability to build industries that can innovate, scale, and compete on
a level playing field.

The ability to participate fully in building a clean energy future that
prevents the worst impacts of climate change and protects the most
vulnerable communities.

That’s why the United States will continue to drive a virtuous cycle of
innovation and investment that lowers the cost of clean energy
technologies in a fair and transparent way…

While at the same time we will continue to use our public and private
dollars to support countries embarking on their own clean energy
transitions—and continue to encourage multilateral institutions to make
important reforms necessary to do the same.

I’ll have more to say about that in a minute.

*III. The Trade Problem*

But even as we increase investment at home and abroad, there’s still an
elephant in the room…one that’s producing a lot of emissions…and that is
global trade.

We have to take a serious look at our international economic systems,
including trade—and harness them for climate action.

Our current global trading system was built to promote open and
competitive markets—which it has done well—but it wasn’t built to curb
emissions.

In fact, by many measures, global trade is a huge *contributor* to the
climate problem.

Emissions from shipping and aviation are a major factor.

These emissions have received a lot of attention and they’ve been the
subject of a lot of productive international cooperation to reduce
emissions through the production of sustainable fuels and
electrification where possible.

But we can’t just look at how we move goods around the world—we have to
look at *what* goods we’re moving.

And when you seriously account for the emissions embodied inside
tradable goods… the emissions from the production processes that create
the commodities and manufactured products that we buy and sell on the
global market… then traded goods account for about twenty-five percent
of all global emissions.

To put it another way, if the global trade of goods was its own country,
it would be the second-largest carbon polluter in the world after the
PRC.

The United States alone imported over 1 gigaton of emissions from traded
products—just in the year 2019. That’s the same amount of emissions we
expect to reduce in 2030 thanks to the Inflation Reduction Act and
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law.

This needs to change if we are to get the climate crisis under control.

Right now, our existing trade policies and the international rules that
govern them don’t pay enough attention to the emissions embodied in
tradeable goods.

We don’t have uniform standards or consistent, reliable data about
embodied emissions.

Global trading rules incentivize carbon leakage—when
manufacturing-related emissions from a country with stronger climate
policies shift to a country with weaker policies.

There is no penalty for what I like to call carbon dumping—when high
emissions in production are exported back into countries with stronger
climate policies.

That’s bad news for climate.

It’s also bad news for competition—setting up a race away from robust,
resilient, and diverse supply chains to those concentrated in countries
with lax standards.

We have a system where transparent, well-structured, targeted incentives
to spur fair market development and private-sector investment in clean
energy are subject to challenge.

Meanwhile, countries collectively spent $1 trillion to subsidize fossil
fuels in 2022 alone, and those policies have proven nearly impossible to
eliminate despite near consensus on the need to.

Let me give you an example of what can happen when policy doesn’t take
sufficient account of embodied carbon in tradeable goods.

The U.S. used to be the world’s largest producer of aluminum. But after
decades of outsourcing and non-market behavior by some countries, only
four primary aluminum smelters now remain in the U.S. 

Today, over half of the world’s aluminum is made in China, where the
average ton of aluminum produces 60% more emissions than it does in the
U.S. 

This is a bad story for the American workers who lost their jobs and the
American communities that were hollowed out.

But it’s also bad for the world as a whole. Globally, aluminum
production is substantially dirtier than it needs to be.

It’s what we call a “race to the bottom”—our relatively cleaner
industrial base shrunk, while the emissions embodied in our imports
swelled.

*IV. Announcing Task Force*

Instead, we need a smart, 21st century-approach to climate and trade
policy that launches a “race to the top” for climate action…a global
trading system that slashes pollution, creates a fair and level playing
field, protects against carbon dumping, supports good manufacturing jobs
and economic opportunity, and rewards every country that’s doing the
right thing—no matter their stage of development.

We’re not claiming to have all the answers…but we’re ready to accelerate
progress in turning conversations about climate-smart trade tools and
policies into practice.

Today, we are announcing a new White House Climate and Trade Task Force,
which will have three focus areas.

First, developing our climate and trade policy toolkit—with an open mind
about what features and approaches will be most effective at addressing
carbon leakage, carbon dumping, and embodied carbon in general.

We’re drawing on lessons we’ve learned from the ongoing negotiations,
led by U.S. Trade Representative Katharine Tai, for a Global Arrangement
on Steel and Aluminum between the EU and the US.

We’re open to proposals from our colleagues on Capitol Hill and policy
thought leaders from inside and outside government.

We’re ready to deepen dialogue with our partners and allies around the
world, from the UK to Australia to the EU as it pursues its Carbon
Border Adjustment Mechanism.

Second, the Task Force will focus on ensuring that we have credible,
robust, and granular data to implement smart climate and trade policies.

We will work closely with trade partners to develop standardized and
authoritative ways of measuring embodied emissions so that each country
can harness comparative advantages in clean manufacturing.

And we’ll take steps internationally to promote common measurement and
high standards on embodied emissions.

And third, the Task Force will identify what more we can do at home and
abroad to further position producers to thrive in this new
race-to-the-top environment. 

Here in the U.S., we want our manufacturers to be the cleanest and most
competitive in the world.

As part of that effort, we recently announced $6 billion in grants from
the Inflation Reduction Act and the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law to
reduce emissions from the industrial sector.

One of the awards will build a new green aluminum smelter that will
avoid approximately 75 percent of the emissions of a conventional
facility.

It will also be the first new smelter built in the United States in 45
years.

We will continue to build on the success of our Buy Clean Initiative,
which harnesses the purchasing power of the federal government to boost
lower-carbon construction materials.  

And even as we continue our efforts to build out transmission and get
clean energy projects up and running faster…we will also explore novel
policy levers to help secure affordable supplies of clean electricity
for energy-intensive manufacturers.

*V. International Support*

But we’re not just about positioning America to compete.

Everything we’re doing to implement the Inflation Reduction Act…deploy
the clean energy that’s already available…and develop and scale newer
technologies…all of that is increasing supply and lowering costs for the
entire world.

The Boston Consulting Group projects that the Inflation Reduction
Act will drive down the cost of certain clean energy technologies by as
much as 25 percent.

It’s important to understand what the Inflation Reduction Act is *not*
doing.

President Biden’s Investing in America approach is *not* intended to
industrially target any sector, including the clean energy sector, in
order to dominate the global market.

We are *not* over-subsidizing domestic industry at any cost, or creating
an oversupply of clean energy products, or trying to drive competitors
out of the market.

The fact that our transparent, well-structured, targeted incentives are
now subject to a challenge at the WTO by the People’s Republic of
China—which has spent decades engaged in non-market policies and
practices that have distorted the global market for clean energy
products like solar, batteries, and critical minerals—is beyond ironic.

Through the Inflation Reduction Act and other investments in clean
energy—including strong support for research, development, and
demonstration—we’re making clean energy technologies more accessible to
more nations…speeding deployment…and lowering emissions globally…all
while creating high-quality production and encouraging high labor
standards.

The Rhodium Group found that for every ton of carbon pollution reduced
at home because of the Inflation Reduction Act, we’ll slash up to 2.9
tons of carbon pollution outside of the U.S.

That’s in large part because of how our investments will lower costs for
next-generation technologies like clean hydrogen electrolyzers.

In addition to creating benefits outside our borders, we’re supporting a
range of international initiatives to support developing countries in
securing the capital they need to decarbonize industry and invest in
their clean energy future.

At COP28 in Dubai, Vice President Harris launched the Clean Energy
Supply Chain Collaborative to work together with like-minded countries
to create high-quality, secure, and diverse clean energy supply chains
for several critical technologies, including batteries, electrolyzers,
and sustainable aviation fuels.

We also announced up to $568 million in new lending from Treasury
through the Clean Technology Fund to support clean energy projects in
eligible countries.

Led by Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen, the U.S. continues to support
the important evolution of Multilateral Development Banks, including the
World Bank, to effectively tackle 21<sup>st</sup> century global
challenges like the climate crisis.

This is being discussed at the Spring Bank Meetings this week in D.C.

And as we approach COP29 at the end of this year, countries need to work
together to set a new collective, quantified goal to boost global
climate finance…moving beyond the $100 billion goal set at previous
COPs.

We have an opportunity to reimagine a goal that’s
ambitious…realistic…and that’s more effective in expanding the ecosystem
of international, domestic, public, and private contributors.

We can draw some inspiration from the Convention on Biological Diversity
framework that was agreed in Montreal in 2022—which focused on
international support and mobilization while capturing the range of
finance that is required to unlock the needed trillions in private
sector investment.

We’re serious about supporting climate and trade policies that work
domestically, crafted in partnership with the labor movement…the climate
movement…U.S. industry…and Congress.

We’re serious about helping developing countries secure the financing
and resources they need to build strong, sustainable economies.

And we’re serious about mobilizing a global coalition of partners and
allies who are ready to build a modern international trade system that
confronts the climate crisis head-on.

*VI. Conclusion*

As I see it, we have two choices.

We can maintain the status quo—a race to the bottom—with trade policies
that reward countries that use dirty production and non-market practices
to gain a competitive advantage.

Or, we can work together to create a race to the top in global trade…one
that rewards countries that are leading on climate action through
transparent, market-based policies and practices.

A system that’s coordinated…consistent…and sends a powerful market
signal to countries and companies alike.

A new global dynamic where cutting emissions isn’t just the right thing
to do, it’s the only thing to do to compete and thrive.

The stakes couldn’t be higher.

But I believe if we make the right choice, we can create and maintain
millions of good-paying jobs in the clean energy economy of the future…

We can mobilize billions in private investment in countries around the
world…

We can maximize the impact of billions of dollars in taxpayer-funded
domestic and international climate investments…

We can accelerate technological innovation and position nations to
overcome the challenges of today and tomorrow…

And we can protect our planet for ourselves and for our children.

All of this is possible—as long as we do it together.

So let’s start today. Thank you.

\###
