---
date: '2024-04-18'
modified_time: 2024-04-18 17:16:20-04:00
published_time: 2024-04-18 17:16:19-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/04/18/remarks-by-president-biden-at-a-campaign-event-philadelphia-pa-2/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at a Campaign Event | Philadelphia,\_PA"
---
 
Martin Luther King Jr. Recreation Center  
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

1:47 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.  Please, have a seat if you have one. 
(Laughter.)  
  
Mom and Dad, I hope you were listening.  (Laughter.) 

What an incredible honor.  What an incredible honor.  I don’t want to
become emotional, but what an incredible honor to have the support of
the Kennedy family.  
  
John White Jr., thanks for those kind words and for carrying on your
family’s civil rights legacy.  And so is your son Kellan, who — who’s
doing a hell of a job on our campaign.  (Applause.)  He’s helping us win
Pennsylvania.  (Applause.)

Kerry, I — that was — that was the most meaningful introduction I’ve
ever gotten in my life, other than when my sister introduced me.  And I
want to thank you for your friendship, well beyond the introduction.  
  
It’s an incredible honor to receive the endorsement of your family.  And
it means so much to me. 

Your mom, Ethel, whom I spoke with on the phone a couple weeks ago —
well, I guess, last week — to wish her happy birthday, she’s always been
so gracious to my family during the most difficult time of my life. 
She’s done so much for the country and the world in her own right. 

And, of course, your dad, who I never got to meet — I just missed — he
was a senator from Syra- — from New York.  He came up to Syracuse
University and spoke, and I waited in line, but I didn’t get a chance to
physically meet him.  I never got — but he inspired me.  And his passion
and courage inspired my generation. 

Like millions of Americans, I remember that night on April 4th, 1968.  I
was finishing law school at Syracuse University when we heard Dr. King
had been assassinated.  The pain and the outrage sparked riots and
despair all across the country, including in my home state of Delaware. 

And then we heard a familiar voice I’d listened to many times — your
dad, Bobby Kennedy, standing in the back of a truck in Indianapolis
asking for peace and quoting one of his favorite Greek poets.  He said,
and I quote, “Even in our sleep, our pain, which cannot forget, falls
drop by drop upon the heart until, our own despair — in our own despair,
against our will, comes wisdom through the awful grace of God.” 

I had a hard time to believe that day that there was any wisdom, trying
to work out from despair where — where we’d go.

It was even harder to believe just two months later, on June the
<s>5th</s> \[6th\].  I had just graduated from law school, earned an
incredible — and learned about an incredible man, later that night, had
been assassinated.  Yet another tragedy in your family and a gigantic
tragedy for the country. 

Only two political heroes I had growing up were gone within a month of
each other — months of each other. 

We faced a real inflection point as a nation. 

When I returned home to my city of Wilmington, one of the cities — only
city since Reconstruction to be occupied by the military, the National
Guard, with drawn bayonets on every street corner for nine straight
months following Dr. King’s murder. 

When I graduated that summer, I went home to take a job at one of the
oldest law firms in the state.  But after only a matter of months, I
left that law firm and took a job as a public defender because I wanted
to be more engaged in the effort. 

I went on to run for the county council, for the United States Senate,
and then as Vice President of the United States.  I’ve done so in large
part because I thought that’s something your dad would have done.  
  
I’m not — I’m not exaggerating that.  He’s always been on my mind, been
one of my heroes.  

Today, I sit behind the Resolute Desk, where President John F. Kennedy
once sat.  And as I look from the desk — if you’ve ever taken a tour of
the White House, I sit in that desk and I look — in front of the
fireplace, to the left is a bust of Martin Luther King and to the right
is a bust of your dad.  And I remember to keep — keep looking and remind
myself what they would do in tough calls.  (Applause.)

The principles Bobby Kennedy embodied were principles taught by my
grandparents and parents around our kitchen table.  And that’s not
hyperbole; that’s a fact.  My dad said everyone is entitled to be
treated with dignity and respect, no matter what their station — no
matter what.  

And they thought — I was taught the worst sin of all — I mean this from
the bottom of my heart — the worst sin of all was the abuse of power —
physical power, economic power, or psycholo- — that was the worst sin of
all — abusing power.  (Applause.)  

And then we have an obligation to each other: to leave no one behind, to
give hate no safe harbor. 

It’s up to all of us to preserve and protect the very idea of America. 

You know, we’re unique — we’re in unique in America — in world history. 
We’re the only nation founded on an idea.  Every other nation in the
world is founded on geography, ethnicity, race, religion — except us. 
Think about it.  The idea was, “We hold these truths to be self-evident,
that all men and women are created equal,” in the image of God, and
deserve to be treated equally throughout their lives.  (Applause.)

We’ve never fully lived up to it, but we’ve never walked away from it. 
We’ve never walked from it.  And we’re not going to walk away from it
now.  (Applause.)  

Today, we face another inflection point in history.

The 2024 election is about two fundamentally different visions of — for
America.  Donald Trump’s vision is one of anger, hate, revenge, and
retribution.  He embraces the insurrectionists of January the 6th.  He’s
running on it.  And as mentioned already, he promised to be a dictator
on “day one” — his own words.  And he calls for —

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE PRESIDENT:  No, he — you know he means it.  And he calls for another
“bloodbath” when he loses again.  (Applause.)

Look, your family, the Kennedy family, has endured such violence. 
Denying January 6th and whitewashing what happens is absolutely
outrageous.

I have a very different view of America, one of hope and optimism, like
I hope all of you do — optimism that Bobby Kennedy embodied. 

I see an America where we defend democracy, not diminish it.  I see an
America where we protect our freedoms, not take them away.  And I see an
America where the economy grows from the middle out and the bottom up —
and that way, the middle class does well and the poor have a shot — and
where healthcare is a right, not a privilege.  (Applause.)

By the way, all the stuff we’ve done so far — we’ve done it, and guess
what?  We’ve cut the budget by a lot of money: $172 billion so far.  So,
don’t tell me it can’t be done.  (Applause.)

I see a future where the planet — we save the planet — as this guy is
busting his neck doing — from climate change, literally — the climate
crisis in — in America.

And we’ve got to do something — the idea we send our kids to school
teaching them to duck and cover.  Think about that.  The idea, in the
United States of America, (inaudible) duck and cover at school.  More
kids being killed by gun violence than almost anything else.

Folks, the America we’re building is significantly different.  We’re
going to get it done.  And now, it’s time to keep going and not slow
down, because there is so much at stake.  

Let me close with this.  I know Bobby Kennedy liked Greek poets, and
they’re great, but I prefer Irish poets.  (Laughter.)  And that’s not a
joke, unfortunately.  (Laughter.)  My colleagues used to always kid me
for quoting Irish poets on the floor of the Senate.  They thought I did
it because I’m Irish.  That’s not the reason.  They’re the best poets in
the world.  (Laughter.)

The one I enjoy particularly is Seamus Heaney.  He wrote a poem called
“The Cure at Troy” that reminds me of the courage of Bobby Kennedy, and
I mean this from the bottom of my heart.  And it goes like this, one
stanza.  It says, “History teaches us do not hope on this side of the
grave.  But then, once in a lifetime, that longed-for tidal wave of
justice will rise up, and hope and history rhyme.”

In 2024, we have a chance to make hope and history rhyme again.  Are you
ready to do that with me?  (Applause.)

Are you ready to move forward, not back?  (Applause.)

Are you ready to choose unity over division, dignity over demolition,
and choose truth over lies?  (Applause.)  Are you ready to choose
freedom <s>over</s> \[and\] democracy?  Because that’s America. 
(Applause.)

Folks, I’ve been doing this a long — I know I only look like I’m 40, but
I’ve been doing this a long time.  (Laughter.)  But I’ve never been more
optimistic about our future, and I mean it. 

We just have to remember who we are.  We’re the United States of
America.  There is nothing — I mean this sincerely.  Think about it. 
We’re the only nation in the world — as a student of history, I can say
— that’s come out of ever crisis stronger than we went in. 

There’s nothing — nothing beyond our capacity when we do it together.

God bless you all.  And may God protect our troops.

Thank you.  (Applause.)

AUDIENCE:  Four more years!  Four more years!  Four more years!

 1:58 P.M. EDT
