---
date: '2024-04-10'
published_time: 2024-04-10 14:30:16-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/04/10/remarks-by-president-biden-and-prime-minister-kishida-fumio-of-japan-at-arrival-ceremony/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden and Prime Minister Kishida Fumio of Japan at Arrival\_\
  Ceremony"
---
 
South Lawn

10:14 A.M. EDT

PRESIDENT BIDEN: Mr. Prime Minister, Mrs. Kishida, welcome. Welcome,
welcome, welcome. On behalf of Jill and me, the Vice President and the
Second Gentleman, and all the American people, welcome to the White
House.

Sixty-four years ago, our two nations signed a Treaty of Mutual
Cooperation and Security. President Eisenhower said his goal was to
establish an indestructible partnership between our countries. Today,
the world can see that goal has been achieved and that partnership
between us is unbreakable.

The alliance between Japan and the United States is a cornerstone of
peace, security, prosperity in the — in the Indo-Pacific and around the
world. Ours is truly a global partnership. For that, Mr. Prime Minister
Kishida, I thank you.

The Prime Minister is a visionary and courageous leader. When Russia
began its brutal invasion of Ukraine two years ago, he did not hesitate
to condemn, sanction, and isolate Russia and provide billions in
assistance to Ukraine.

Under his leadership, Japan set in motion profound changes in its
defense policies and its capabilities. Now — now our two countries are
building a stronger defense partnership and a stronger Indo-Pa- —
stronger Indo-Pacific than ever before.

As President of the G7 last year, the Prime Minister rallied Japan’s
partners to take action on nuclear disarmament, global poverty, economic
resilience, and other critical issues that shape peace, security, and
opportunity for billions of people around the world.

And last year, the Prime Minister took one of the boldest steps yet when
he and President Yoon of the Republic of Korea decided to heal old
wounds and start a new chapter of friendship. Our historic summit that I
hosted at Camp David marked the start of an entirely new era infused
with hope, shared values, and focused relentlessly forward because these
leaders know that the division that defined us in the past do not need
to define us in the future.

That has also been the story of Japan and the United States. Just a few
generations ago, our two nations were locked in a devastating conflict.
It would have been easy to say we remain adversaries. Instead, we made a
far better choice: We became the closest of friends.

Today, our economic relationship is one of the strongest and deepest in
the world. Our democracies are beacons of freedom, shining across the
globe. And the ties of friendship, family connect the Japanese and
American people as a source of joy, meaning — and meaning for millions —
millions of our people.

Japanese Americans have made historic contributions across American life
for generations. That includes my mentor and one of my closest friends
ever in the United States Senate, Senator Daniel Inouye — a decorated
war hero, a U.S. senator for nearly 50 years, and a recipient of the
Medal of Honor.

Yesterday, Prime Minister laid a wreath at the National Japanese
American Memorial in honor of Danny Inouye’s 100th birthday, something I
truly appreciate you having done. (Applause.)

Mr. Prime Minister, you and I have been entrusted with protecting and
advancing the monumental alliance between our two great democracies.
Together, we made it closer, stronger, and more effective than ever
before in history.

I thank you, Mr. Prime Minister, for your partnership, your leadership,
and your personal friendship.

Let me end with this. It’s spring in Washington. The sun is shining. And
every spring, cherry blossoms bloom across the city thanks to a gift
from Japan of 3,000 cherry trees over a century ago. People travel all
over our country and the world to see these magni- — these magnificent
blossoms.

Last night, the Prime Minister and Mrs. Kishida, Jill and I, took a
stroll down the driveway across the lawn here at the White House to
visit three cherry blossom trees. One that Jill and Mrs. Kishida planted
together a year ago. The other two are among the 250 new trees that
Japan has given the United States to honor our 250th birthday two years
from now. They’ll be planted at the Tidal Basin, not far from the Martin
Luther King Memorial. And like our friendship, these trees are timeless,
inspiring, and thriving.

May God bless the Japanese and American people. And may God protect our
troops.

Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Kishida, welcome back to the White House.
(Applause.) The floor is yours.

PRIME MINISTER KISHIDA: (As interpreted.) Thank you.

PRESIDENT BIDEN: The trouble is, we’ve become good friends. (Laughs.)

Please.

AIDE: Distinguished guests, the Prime Minister of Japan. (Applause.)

PRIME MINISTER KISHIDA: (As interpreted.) Mr. President, Dr. Biden,
distinguished guests. I thank President Biden for the warm words of
welcome. I am very pleased to see that the cherry tree that my wife,
Yuko, planted with Dr. Biden last year is growing beautifully.

The cherry trees along the Potomac River are a symbol of the friendship
between Japan and the United States. These Japanese-born cherry trees
have been sounding the arrival of spring to the city every year for over
110 years. Just as the local residents have cherished and protected
these cherry trees, the Japan-U.S. relationship has been supported and
nurtured by the many people who love each other’s country.

The development of the Japan-U.S. relationship is the fruit of the
historical cooperation between the two countries. Along with the trust
between the leaders and cooperation between our governments, numerous
people-to-people exchanges in ranging fields have shaped the friendship
between our countries.

The cooperation between our countries, bound together by common values
and commitments, has become a global one with the scope and depth
covering outer space and the deep sea.

Today, the world faces more challenges and difficulties than ever
before. As a global partner, Japan will join hands with our American
friends and, together, we will lead the way in tackling the challenges
of the Indo-Pacific region and the world while tirelessly developing the
relationship between our countries with a view to the world 10 and even
100 years from now.

In Japan, it is said that the Somei Yoshino, which are the cherry trees
planted in this area, have a lifespan of about 60 years. However, thanks
to the efforts of the cherry tree guardians, the trees have shown their
strong vitality, blooming beautifully for more than 100 years without
waning.

When I heard that some of the trees would be replaced, as President
Biden mentioned earlier, I decided to send 250 new cherry trees to
commemorate the upcoming 250th anniversary of the founding of the United
States. (Applause.)

The friendship between Japan and the United States will continue to grow
and bloom around the world, thriving on friendship, respect, and trust
of the people of both countries. I am confident that the
cherry-blossom-like bond of the Japan-U.S. alliance will continue to
grow even thicker and stronger here, in the Indo-Pacific, and in all
corners of the world.

Mr. President, Dr. Biden, distinguished guests, thank you, once again,
for your warm welcome, hospitality, and friendship.

(In English.) Thank you so much. (Applause.)

END 10:32 A.M. EDT
