---
date: '2024-04-17'
modified_time: 2024-04-19 10:59:46-04:00
published_time: 2024-04-17 17:07:36-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/04/17/remarks-by-president-biden-on-new-actions-to-protect-u-s-steel-and-shipbuilding-industry-from-chinas-unfair-practices-pittsburgh-pa/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on New Actions to Protect U.S. Steel and Shipbuilding\
  \ Industry from China\u2019s Unfair Practices | Pittsburgh,\_PA"
---
 
United Steelworkers Headquarters  
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

2:29 P.M. EDT  
  
 THE PRESIDENT:  Hello, Pittsburgh.  (Applause.)  Please have a seat.  
  
 Robert, thank you for that introduction and for sharing your story
about being a third-generation steelworker and a Marine Corps veteran. 
Where are you?  Are you over on this side?  There you are.  
  
 Well, I want to thank you for the — your new president, by the way. 
Dave McCall has been a friend of mine and a friend of a former
president.  We — we miss him, but it’s great to have you, Dave.  You’ve
been a good friend.  And we’re both longtime friends — (applause) —
we’re both longtime friend of Tom’s as well.  We miss him dearly.  
  
 Dave, you’re doing a great job in his footsteps and — and it’s just
going to get better, in my view.  
  
 There’s an expression that comes to mind: “You go home with them that
brung you to the dance.”  And you brought me to the dance.  (Applause.) 
No joke.  
  
 The Mayor and I are buddies.  I told the Mayor — and I mean it
sincerely — the first outfit ever to endorse me as a 29-year-old kid
running in a tough year for United States Senate, making me the second
youngest man ever elected to the Senate, was a guy named Hughie
Carcella.  And back in those days, the s- — we had a big steelworkers —
we had a lot of steelworkers in Claymont, Delaware, where I was from,
because they worked in Worth Steel Company.   
  
And — and I’ll never forget coming to me and saying, “We’re going to get
you help.”  And I came out to Pittsburgh and you — and the steelworkers
endorsed me.  It changed everything.  (Applause.)   
  
Nixon won my state — Nixon won my state of Delaware with 60 percent of
the vote, and I won with an astounding 3,100 majority — (laughter) —
3,100 majority.  And it’s thanks to you.  I really mean it.  
  
 I’m Pittsburgh and — because of — and I really mean it: My love for
Pittsburgh goes back to my Scranton days.  My Grandfather Finnegan
always talked about Pittsburgh.  
  
 Any rate, to make a long story short, the bottom line, for all kidding
aside, is I’m president because of you guys.  I really am.  And I’m
proud, as was mentioned earlier — I’m proud to be the most pro-union
president in American history, for real.  (Applause.)  
  
 Where I was raised, it ain’t labor; it’s unions — unions. 
(Applause.)  
  
 I had an uncle.  He’d say, “Joey, you are union from belt buckle to
shoe sole.”  (Laughter.)  
  
 Well, I want to thank some folks who had my back and — and had to stay
back in Washington and couldn’t be here today.  Representatives Summer
Lee and — you know, I — she — by the way, there are votes going on — and
Chris DeLuzio.  And Senator Bobby Casey is one of my closest friends, as
his dad was.  And John Fetterman, who I want to stay on his side no
matter what.  (Laughter and applause.)   
  
 And thank you to all the state and local leaders here, including the
Mayor of Pittsburgh, Ed Gainey.  Ed, you’re the best buddy.  You’ve —
you’ve really stepped up.  (Applause.)  
  
 And a great leader, JoJo Burgess, an Army veteran from a steelworking
family.  He was my guest at the State of the Union just a couple of
years ago.  He came back home to Washington, Pennsylvania, and decided
to run for mayor, and he won.  (Applause.)  And he’s still working as a
steelworker.  But that’s America.  
  
 Look, folks, it was — I was — almost exactly five years ago that I
began my campaign for president right here in Pittsburgh, where I
announced.  
  
 I said one of the reasons I was running was to rebuild the backbone of
America, the middle class.  And it was already mentioned — it’s been
mentioned a thousand times, thankfully, since then — that the backbone
of America has a steel spine.  It really does have a steel spine.  
  
 You heard me say it before: Wall Street didn’t build America; the
middle class didn’t build — built America, and you guys built the middle
class.  Unions built it.  
  
 And that’s why I’m here today to announce a series of actions that I
stand by you, the American steelworker.  
  
 Look, first, U.S. Steel has been an iconic American company for more
than a century.  And it should remain a totally American company —
(applause) — American owned, American operated, by American union
steelworkers — the best in the world.  And it’s — that’s going to
happen.  I promise you.  (Applause.)  
  
 Second, American steelworkers can outwork, outcompete as long as they
have fair competition.  But for too long, the Chinese government has
poured state money into Chinese steel companies, pushing them to make so
much steel — as much as possible — subsidized by the Chinese
government.  
  
 Because Chinese steel companies produce a lot more steel than China
needs, it ends up dumping the extra steel into the global markets at
unfairly low prices.  And the prices are unfairly low because Chinese
steel companies don’t need to worry about making a profit, because the
Chinese government is subsidizing them so heavily.   
  
 They’re not competing.  They’re cheating.  They’re cheating.  And we’ve
seen the damage here in America.  
  
 You know, back in the early 2000s, the Chinese steel began floating the
mar- — flooding the market wi- — in steel towns all across Pennsylvania
and Ohio, who were hit very hard.  
  
Between those years, 2000 and 2010, more than 14,000 steelworkers \[and
ironworkers\] in Pennsylvania and Ohio lost their jobs — 14,000.  
  
 Let me ask you: Are we going to let that happen again?  
  
 AUDIENCE:  No!  
  
 THE PRESIDENT:  I promise you that I’m not going to let that happen
again.  
  
 Look, right now, my U.S. Trade Representative is investigating trade
practices by the Chinese government regarding steel and aluminum.  If
that investigation confirms these anti-competitive trade practices, then
I’m calling on her to consider tripling the tariff rates for both steel
imports and aluminum imports from China.  (Applause.)  
  
 And we know that Chinese steel and aluminum are being imported into
America through Mexico that avoids the tariff.  And just yesterday, I
had a delegation down in Mexico meeting with AMLO, the Mexican
president, to address this issue.   
  
Mexico and the United States are going to work together to solve it, I
promise you.  I promise you.  
  
 My administration is also taking a real hard look at the Chinese
government’s industrial practices when it comes to global shipbuilding,
which is critical to our economy.  We depend on a fleet of commercial
shipping vessels that carry American products around the world.  
  
 Shipbuilding is critical to our national security, including the
strength of the United States Navy.  
  
 That’s why my administration takes it very seriously that U.S.
Steelworkers, along with four other unions, have asked us to investigate
whether the Chinese government is using anticompetitive practices to
artificially lower prices in the shipbuilding industry.  
  
 We’ve heard you.  
  
 And if the Chinese government is doing that and the unfair tactics to
undermine free and fair trade competition in the shipping industry, I
will take action.  That investigation is going on.  
  
 Taken together, these are strategic and targeted actions that are going
to protect American workers and ensure fair competition.  
  
 Meanwhile, my predecessor and the MAGA Republicans want
across-the-board tariffs on all imports from all countries.  That could
badly hurt American consumers.  It’s estimated it would cost the average
American family an average of $1,500 a year if they succeeded in doing
that.  
  
 Trump simply doesn’t get it.  
  
For years, I’ve heard my — many of my Republican and even Democratic
friends say that China is on the rise and America has been falling
behind.  You may have noticed, the last two years, I’ve been the only
one disagreeing with that.  
  
I’ve always believed <s>we’ve</s> \[they’ve\] got it all wrong.  America
is rising.  And we have the best economy in the world, which we do.
 (Applause.)  
  
And since I’ve come to office, our GDP is up, our trade deficit with
China is down to the lowest level in over a decade, and we’re standing
up against the Chinese government unfair economic practice and
industrial over-capacity.  
  
 And we are the strongest economic — economy in the world.  
  
 In addition — and, by the way, China has got more — I always say to my
colleagues — when I meet other world leaders, I say, “Would you trade
places with China?  Would you trade places with their problems?” 
They’ve got a population that is more people in retirement than
working.  They’re not in- — they’re not importing any — they’re not
bringing — they’re xenophobic — no — nobody coming — else coming in. 
They’ve got real problems.  
  
 I’m not looking for a fight with China.  I’m looking for competition,
but fair competition.  
  
In addition, we’re standing up for peace and stability across the Taiwan
Straits.  I’ve revitalized our partnerships in — and our alliances in
the Pacific with India, Australia, South Korea, the Philippines, and
other Pacific Island nations.  
  
 I’ve made sure that we have the most advanced technologies that we’ve
developed and invented, and they can’t be sent to China or undermine our
— because it’ll undermine our national security.  
  
 When I spoke with Xi Jinping, he said, “Why?”  I said, “Because you use
it for all the wrong reasons, so you’re not going to get those advanced
computer chips.”  
  
 Finally, for all this tough talk on China, it never occurred to my
predecessor to do any of that.  
  
 The bottom line is that I want fair competition with China, not
conflict, and we’re in a stronger position to win the economic
competition of the 21st century against China or anyone else because
we’re investing in America and American workers again, finally.
 (Applause.)  
  
 You know, there’s a law, back in the ‘30s, that passed when we — about
whether unions could exist.  There’s a provision that no — very few
people — very few presidents ever paid attention to.  If a president is
sent money from the Congress to do something for the public, he must use
American products and must use American workers, unless you couldn’t
find them.  Well, guess what?  A lot of them didn’t find them, except
me.  (Laughter and applause.)  No, I mean it.  Not a joke.  
  
 Everything we build, we build with American product and with American
workers, period.  (Applause.)  And it doesn’t violate any trade
agreement.   
  
 Thanks to my Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, we announced over 51,000
new infrastructure projects all across America — (applause) — so far —
we’re just getting started — including roads, bridges, ports, airports,
clean water systems, high-speed affordable Internet, all across
America.  
  
 You may remember, my predecessor promised “Infrastructure Week” after
week after week — (laughter) — for four years and never built a damn
thing.  (Applause.)  Nothing.  No, I’m serious: Nothing.  
  
 And, by the way, these projects are going to be using — using
American-made materials, like American steel and American concrete,
creating good-paying American jobs — union jobs.  (Applause.)  
  
 Why?  As I said — I’ve already said it, but since the ‘30s, the law has
said we could do that.  And that’s exactly what I’m doing.   
  
 And we’re buying American.  We are selling American.  It’s all about
America.  We buy America.  
  
 And past administrations, including my predecessor, failed to uphold
that “Buy American” provision.  Not anymore.  That’s — that’s over.  We
— American products and American workers.  
  
 Look, folks, you know, I signed the Inflation Reduction Act, the most
significant law taking on climate change ever anywhere in the world —
anywhere in the world.   
  
We didn’t get anybody to vote for it, other than my Democratic friends. 
Okay?  
  
 Well, guess what?  That includes billions of dollars in investments in
industries of the future, including clean American steel.  It’s clean
because the way we produce it here emits much less carbon than the steel
made in China.  
  
 Last month, my administration announced the largest investment ever in
clean manufacturing in American history — in all of American history. 
(Applause.)  It included up to $1.5 billion in six clean steel projects
across America — $1.5 billion.  It’s going to create and support
thousands of union jobs, including at — at Butler Works in — in Lyndora,
Pe- — over in Lyndora, Pennsylvania.  
  
 My predecessor and his Republican friends in Congress want to repeal
that law that would cut those jobs.  And it would cut the jobs if you
repeal the law.  I’m serious.   
  
The — I know when I say these things, you wonder can that — could they
be — possibly be that stupid?  (Laughter.)  I — I shouldn’t say it that
way.  (Laughter.)   
  
But I’m serious.  Think about it.  Just check it out.  That’s what they
want to do.  But that’s not all.  
  
My predecessor rolled back protections for American workers.  He opposed
the increase overall for federal minimum wage.  He put union busters on
the National Labor Relations Board.  
  
AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  For real.  Well, you know he did.  Think — think of what
the board looked like before I became president.  Not a joke.  Not a
joke.  
  
Meanwhile, since I was sworn in as president, because of you, look at
what we’ve achieved together.  Through my American Rescue Plan, I
enacted the Butch Lewis Act, the most significant law — (applause) — the
most significant law for union workers and retirees in 50 years.   
  
Think of what would happen if we didn’t get that passed.  And none of
them wanted to help me.  But we got it done.  
  
It protected the hard-earned pensions of more than 120,000
steelworkers.  (Applause.)  Folks, you’ve had my back, and I promise I
have your back.  
  
We made that happen while my predecessor never lifted a finger to
help.  
  
 I also increased the federal minimum wage for federal contracts.  The
people I’ve appointed to the National Labor Relations Board actually
care about American workers.  
  
 So far, we’ve created 15 million — as mentioned earlier — new jobs — a
record in a — in a term of a president — (applause) — 492,000 new jobs
so far in Pennsylvania alone.  (Applause.)  Under my predecessor, who is
busy right now — (laughter) — Pennsylvania lost 275,000 jobs.  I mean,
let’s — let’s look at the facts.  
  
 On my watch, unemployment hasn’t been this low for this long in 50
years.  (Applause.)  That’s 50 years.  Wages are rising.  American
manufacturing is booming.  We’ve created up close to 800,000 new
manufacturing jobs since I became president, including 28,000
manufacturing jobs right here in Pennsylvania.   
  
 We’ve attracted $680 billion — let me say it again — $680 billion in
private-sector investment in advanced manufacturing and clean energy
here in America, including $4 billion just here in the state of
Pennsylvania so far.  
  
 Folks, instead of importing foreign products and exporting American
jobs, we’re exporting American products and creating American jobs. 
Think about — think of all the time — think — think of the last years
where they’d go — American — corporate America wanted to go find the
cheapest labor in the world, send the jobs overseas, and then import the
product home.  Not anymore.  
  
Together, we’re doing what’s always worked best for this country.  We’re
investing in all of America, in all Americans.   
  
And we’re building an economy from the middle out — not — and the bottom
up, not the top down.  Because when we do that, the poor have a ladder
up and the middle class do well and the wealthy still do very well. 
(Applause.)  We all do well.  No, for real.  
  
 Look, let me close with this.  I just came from my hometown, Scranton,
Pennsylvania, a place like Pittsburgh that sort of climbs into your
heart and never leaves you.  And it really doesn’t.  
  
 My mom didn’t live in — in Scranton since she was — 1954, but when
you’d ask Mom where is she from, she’d say, “Scranton.”  “Scranton.” 
(Laughter.)  Well, where you learn basic — a basic value set, like you
do here.   
  
 Money doesn’t determine your worth, I would always be told.  Everyone
is entitled to be treated with dignity and respect.   
  
My dad used to say, “A job is about a lot more than a paycheck — worth a
lot more than a paycheck, pal.  It’s about your dignity.  It’s about
respect.  It’s about being treated with respect.”   
  
 And he’d say — he’d always — and I give you my word.  These are phrases
he’d always use.  He’d say, “You know, not only being able to give —
have respect, but being able to look your kid in the eye and say,
‘Honey, it’s going to be okay,’ and mean it — mean it.”  
  
 Look, everyone — everyone deserves a fair shot — just a fair shot.  And
we’re going to leave no one behind.  
  
 Folks, that’s my view of the economy — from Scranton, from Pittsburgh,
from the thousands of working- and middle-class neighborhoods all across
America.  It’s a future we are building together.  
  
 As I said, I always think of my dad.  I really mean it.  My Dad, during
the war, he didn’t get to go to college.  He got a — he was from Bal- —
as they say in Baltimore, *Baltimore* — (pronounced in an accent) —
(laughter) — he was from — he was from Baltimore, and then his father,
then, worked for American Oil Company and moved to Wilmington and then
to Scranton to open up business — to open up stations.   
  
 And — but he always would come home and — and he’d go back and close
the business.  He didn’t own it; he was a — managed a dealership.  And
he’d say, “A job is a lot more than a paycheck.”  And it really is. 
It’s about treating people with dignity.  It’s about treating them with
respect.  And, look, it’s going to be okay.  It’s going to be okay.  
  
 Folks, because of you, the American worker, I’ve never been more
optimistic about America’s future.  And I mean it.  I really, truly
am.  
  
 When my son died, I decided I wa- — he had spent a year in Iraq, and he
— unfortunately, his hooch was next to a burn pit.  And he went one of
the most fit guys in his — in his regiment, and he came home with stage
four glioblastoma.  They’re more brain injuries for — for folks fighting
in Iraq than any other place in the world.  
  
 Remember what happened to all those firemen in 9/11?  Same thing
happened because these burn pits are just awful.  They put everything
from human waste to — anyway —  
  
And — and I — and so, I wasn’t going to run.  But what happened was,
when he passed, you remember that — right after that — well, you don’t
remember him passing in 2015.  And I w- — I wasn’t going to run.  I was
going to write a book about inflection points in American history, where
the actions we take in a short period of time determine what happens in
the next five or six decades.  Well, that’s one of the places we’re at
right now.   
  
And when those folks came walking out of those fields — down in
Charlottesville, Virginia — carrying Nazi banners, singing the same
garbage that they sang in Hitler’s streets in Germany in the ‘30s,
carrying torches, accompanied by the Ku Klux Klan, and a young woman was
killed, I decided that I had to run.  I had to run.  Our democracy is at
stake, and it really is.  
  
But you know what changes it?  When you make the economy grow.  When you
stand up and ordinary people have an even shot and they’re not at all
susceptible to the garbage that’s fed from these guys.  It’s pure
garbage.   
  
I’m supposed to stop.  I — I shouldn’t keep going.  (Laughter and
applause.)  
  
Well, folks, look — look, we’ve got to just remember who we are.  And I
can’t — well, when I left Scranton today, I wanted to go to the war
memorial that has the names of all the Scrantonians who died in World
War Two etched into a granite wall, because I wanted to see where my
uncle — “Uncle Bosie,” Ambrose J. Finnegan — where his name was
etched.  
  
Back a- — when D-Day occurred and — on Sunday, the next day, my mother’s
four brothers all went down to the recruiting station and joined the
military.  Every one of them volunteered.   
  
And my uncle — they called him Un- — Ambrose — instead of “Brosie,” they
called him “Bosie.”  My Uncle Bosie was a hell of an athlete, they tell
me, when he was a kid.  And he became an Army Air Corps, before the Air
Force came along.  He flew those single-engine planes as reconnaissance
over war zones.  
  
And he got shot down in New Guinea, and they never found the body
because there used to be — there were a lot of cannibals, for real, in
that part of New Guinea.   
  
And — and then my son volunteered to go to Iraq for a year.  And he came
back with stage four glioblastoma.  And they — and they gave — like many
of you, risked your lives and you know people who gave their lives for
the country.  They’re heroes.   
  
But one of the things that I — as I was doing that today, I was reminded
of what my opponent said in Paris not too long ago.  They asked him if
he would go visit American gravesites.  He said, “No,” he wouldn’t do
it, because they were all “suckers” and “losers.” 

 I’m not making that up.  His staff who was with him acknowledge it
today.  “Suckers” and “losers.”  That man doesn’t deserve to have been
the Commander-in-Chief for my son, my uncle.   
  
So, folks, we got a lot of work to do, but I’m confident we can do it. 
And I mean it.  I’ve never been more optimistic about our possibilities
as a nation.   
  
So, let’s go out and get (inaudible).  (Applause.)  
  
We’re the United States of America.  There’s nothing beyond our capacity
— nothing.  
  
Thank you, thank you, thank you.  (Applause.)  
  
2:50 P.M. EDT
