---
date: '2024-04-08'
modified_time: 2024-04-09 15:26:42-04:00
published_time: 2024-04-08 20:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/04/08/remarks-by-president-biden-at-a-campaign-reception-chicago-il-3/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at a Campaign Reception | Chicago,\_IL"
---
 
Private Residence  
Chicago, Illinois  

5:27 P.M. CDT

  
THE PRESIDENT:  I think I should leave now.  (Laughter.)

Thank you, Michael and Cari, and — for the introduction, but even more
than that, for your friendship.  You know, this is an unusual business. 
Some of the people you meet, that you work with, both help you in your —
in your campaigns and also work with you become your closest friends,
like Billy Daley.  He doesn’t want to — he wants to deny it, but he
can’t.  (Laughter.)

Folks, look, you know, you hosted me back in 2019, the first con- — the
first event we did for the 2020 campaign.  And this is the first event
in Chicago we’ve done for this campaign.  So, thank you again.

And I know your husband is not here.  He’s doing the solar eclipse, but
no one has helped me more than your husband and you.  Thank you.  Thank
you.

And, look, the governor is — has a hell of a job to do.  But — but I
know that — that one thing about us we have in common: We both married
way above our station.  (Laughter.) 

And, as I said, I want to thank my friend Billy for being my friend for
such a long time.  Bill, you’re a hell of a guy, and there’s no way to
get rid of me — (laughter) — none, none, none. 

Look, it’s awful- — always special to be back in Chicago.  Election
night 2008 was a — was a special moment.  We were excited to bring the
convention here.  And 2024, here again in August. 

Trust me when I say you governor and the entire Illinois delegation,
including my buddy Dick Durbin, were determined to make it happen.  I’m
not exaggerating.  (Laughter.)  Not even a little, tiny bit.

And I want to thank Michael for your serving as president of the host
committee and for all you do to support us.

Look, I’m looking forward to the con- — this convention, for real.  You
know, as some of you in here know me very well, I — you know, you always
want to win when you run.  That’s always just the competitive nature of
it.  But this is an election that I feel more obliged to win than even
want to win, because the alternative is not very good.  The alternative
for the country is, I think, really somewhat worrisome.

You know, we head into spring.  We’re genuinely excited about the
momentum building in our campaign.  So far, 1.5 million contributors
have contributed to the campaign — 1.5 million.  Five hundred fifty
thousand new contributors since the last election.  97 percent of those
contributors contributed under $200.

And we’re ramping up the campaign headquarters, field offices, hiring
staff all across the country.  Before Trump and the Republicans have
opened one single office, we’ve opened hundreds.

And while the press doesn’t write much about it, we have 18 national
polls in the recent past, just since — I guess it was about four weeks —
three, four weeks now — where those 19 polls, we’re ahead of Trump. 
They never write that, but we’re ahead of Trump since my State of the
Union Address, including the battleground states, like Michigan and
Pennsylvania.

In Pennsylvania, one of the most reputable polls has us winning by 10
points.  I don’t take any of this for granted because I don’t think the
polls are able to accurately predict like they used to because of the
nature of how hard it is to get in contact with people.

But, look, I know not everyone is feeling the enthusiasm.  And so, just
the other day, I — a defeated-looking man came up to me and said, “Mr.
President, I’m being crushed by debt.  I’m completely wiped out.”  And I
said to say, “Sorry, Donald, I can’t help.”  (Laughter.)  “I can’t — I
can’t do much about it.”

Look, Trump is in trouble, and he knows it.  Just today, he released a
video where he’s scrambling on the abortion issue — scrambling on the
issue.  He’s worried voters are going to hold him accountable for the —
overturning Roe v. Wade and for the cruelty and chaos that it’s created.

Well, the bad news is, for him, he bragged about <s>overrowing</s>
\[overturning\] Roe v. Wade.  The vo- — voters are going to hold him
accountable.   
  
Voters will hold him accountable in the — for the 14 states where
abortion is now illegal in all cases, even rape or incest, because of —
Roe v. Wade is no longer the law of the land.   
  
Voters are going to hold him accountable for the extreme six-week bans
that exist, the women who have been turned away in emergency rooms, the
women who have mo- — lost — nearly lost their lives or had their — had
to flee their states to get care they needed.

For 50 years, women in America did not have to worry about a fundamental
right.  It didn’t matter where they lived.  It didn’t matter whether —
wh- — where they were.  It didn’t matter.  It was a fundamental right,
and Trump took it away.  Now women in America today have fewer rights
than their mothers and grandmothers had.

And this is outrageous, in my view.  Mark my words, it’s going to be —
move millions of voters — women and men — to the polls this year.  And
I’ve said many times: Trump and the MAGA crowd don’t have a clue about
the power of women in America.  But they’re not ab- — they’re about to
find out.  They’re about to find out.

Look, no one — I’ll just be very blunt about it; the press is here — no
one trusts Donald Trump.He’s made a political deal to get rid of Roe v.
Wade.  Now he hasn’t — he’s already realized that political deal with
his MAGA friends may be imposing a national ban, and if they put one on
his desk, he said he’d sign it. 

That’s never going to happen, if I’m elected.  But as long as I’m
president, I’m going to veto any national ban on choice.  Kamala and I
are determined to make Roe v. Wade the law of the land.  If you give us
a Democratic Congress next time around, we’re going to do just that.

And, folks, look, chaos is nothing new to Trump.  His presidency was
chaos.  Trump is trying to make the country forget how dark and
unsettling things were when he was president. 

But we’ll never forget.  We’ll never forget lying about COVID, telling
Americans to drink bleach.  (Laughter.)  No, it’s not a — if you did- —
if it didn’t happen, it’d sound bizarre.  But it was bizarre.

We’ll never forget his love letters to North Korea’s Kim Jong Un and his
admiration for Putin, which he still exhibits.  We’re never going to
forget waiting for the tear-gassed innocent protestors outside the White
House, just so he could hold a Bible upside down and — at a nearby
church.

And, by the way, now he compares himself to — to Jesus Christ.  I find
it fascinating.  I find it fascinating.  He also talks about how he’s
like Nelson Mandela — persecuted like Nelson Man- — I mean, saying these
things.  (Laughter.)

If you didn’t — if you haven’t heard them come out of his mouth, you’d
think I’m making it up. 

Well, we’re never going to forget the insurrection on January the 6th,
one of the darkest days in history.  And he did not a single thing to
stop it — not a single thing — one of the worst derelictions of duty of
any President of the United States in the history of the United States. 

And, look, anybody want to go back to that?  I don’t think so.  Look —
look how far we’ve come: 13 million new jobs; over 300 jobs — three
hundred thou- — 300,000 jobs just this last month; 26 months of — two
years of unemployment under 4 percent; more people have health insurance
today than ever before in the history of the country. 

And we looked at Big Pharma.  We looked at them for a long time.  We’ve
tried like hell to get them under control.  But finally — finally, we
won.  Medicare can now negotiate what price they’ll pay with Big Pharma,
bringing down the cost of insulin from $400 a month to $35 a month.  And
so much more to come.

We’ve made historic investments in rebuilding the country, in computer
chips, combating climate change, gun violence.  But the first — I put
the first Black woman on the Supreme Court, as I promised I’d do.  And I
could go on.

But the — but all — but this is all at stake.  Trump wants to get rid of
all of it.  He’s made no bo- — all of it — all of it.   
  
Trump wants to terminate — I love his phrase, “terminate” — the
Affordable Care Act.  Why?  Because Obamacare — and when Bill was
helping the President — is — is what the Affordable Care — Healthcare
Act is.  It’s Obamacare on steroids.  But he can’t — because it was
Barack Obama, he wants to get rid of it. 

From the very beginning, he’s determined to get rid of cheaper
prescription drugs.  Why?  Because the drug companies hate them. 

They’re determined to get rid of the climate — he’s coming after the
climate bill.  Why?  Because the companies hate it.

And he’s determined to get rid of so- — to reduce Social Security, rai-
— raise the age to get rid of Medicare. 

Look, the fact of the matter is the biggest threat to — Trump poses to
our demo- — is to our democracy.  And, you know, all — all that is at
risk in 2024: the freedoms, our democracy.

Trump only embraces the violence of — not only embraces — embraces the
violence of January 6th, he’s running on it.  Do you ever see his ads? 
He’s running on it.  He calls the insurrectionists who are in prison now
— he calls them “patriots.”  And he says, if reelected, he wants to
pardon them.

Now Trump says if he loses again, there will be another “bloodbath” —
his phrase, not mine.  It’ll be a “bloodbath” if he loses again.

Well, folks, we must say with one voice as Americans — as Democrats,
independents, Republicans — there’s no place for political violence in
America — none, zero, never.  Period.  
  
Let me close with this.  This election is about competing visions for
America.  Trump’s vision is one that is really full of anger and hate
and revenge and retribution.  He looks at America and sees a failing
nation — his phrase, not mine — his phrase: “a failing nation.”  He’s
dead wrong.

I have a very different view of America — and I mean this from the
bottom of my heart — one of hope and optimism.  I see an America where
we defend democracy, we don’t diminish it.  I see an America where we
protect the freedoms — the freedom to vote, the freedom to choose — not
take them away.

I see an America where the economy grows from the middle out and the
bottom up, not just the top down, and where working — and where working
people finally have a shot — finally have a shot, where healthcare is a
right not a privilege.   
  
I see a future where we save the planet from a climate crisis and our
country from gun violence and still grow significantly. 

And this — look, folks, this election is about democracy, freedom in
America.  I wish the stakes weren’t this high, but they are.  That’s why
I need you.  I know we can do this together.

I’ve never been more optimistic about our future.  And <s>I</s> \[we\]
have to remember who we are.  We’re the United States of America. 

I told a couple of you in the past that, before Dr. Kissinger died, 10
days before, I got a phone call: Would I talk to him?  So, I called him,
and he said something fascinating to me.  And I knew him because I was a
young senator when — during the Vietnam War, when he was Secretary of
State and we used to argue like hell. 

And he said, you know — he said, “Not since Napoleon — not since
Napoleon has Europe not looked over their shoulder at Russia with dread
and fear and concern, until you guys came along.”  And he said, “What
you’re done, you’ve strengthened NATO, you’ve expanded NATO, you’ve set
into motion where the next six decades can be de- — decades of peace in
Europe, not insecurity, because of what you’ve done.”

Well, what’s he doing now?  He refuses to — we had the ability to get a
deal where we finally continued to support Ukraine.  He got on the phone
and called the Republican senators and said, “Don’t vote for it.  Don’t
be for it.”  Why?  Because he doesn’t want to offend Putin.  He has a
secret plan.  I bet I know what the secret is.  That what you’re going
to do is — he’s going to work out something, if he’s president, where he
gets Ukraine to give up a big chunk of its land that has been invaded in
order to get peace. 

Look, folks, I’ve been doing this job in politics for a fair amount of
time.  I know that sounds strange for a 40-year-old guy to say that. 
(Laughter.)  But all kidding aside, we are, as Madeleine Albright said,
the essential nation.  The rest of the world looks to us.

Who fills the vacuum if we’re not there?  I mean it sincerely.  And
we’re not — we’re not sending American troops.  Who fills the vacuum,
though, if we’re not there?  What happens if we’re not there?

Every international meeting I attend — and I knew — I think Bill would
agree that the reason Barack asked me to be vice president was because
of my background in foreign policy.  I’ve known most of these heads of
state for a long time.  I know all of them now as well. 

Every international meeting I attend — and Madeleine Albright was right
about us being essential nation — not because of me, because I’m the
President of the United States of America, every one — one of them,
they’ll get to me in the corner before the meeting is adjourned and grab
my arm and say, “You can’t let him win.  My democracy is at stake.”  And
not about me.  They really, genuinely worry about their democracies.

What happens?  What happens in Europe?  What happens if we don’t do what
we’ve been doing able to keep China where it was?  What happens if we
don’t continue to maintain these allegiances?

Folks, look, there’s a great deal at stake, but I’m confident — I’m
absolutely confident the American people are ready to face the
challenge.  And we — because if we don’t, we’re going to have a real
problem.  And I think they know it.

So, what you’ve done is you put me in a position to be able to fund a
campaign.  As I said, we have significant contributions from significant
group of people all across the country.  And they’re Democrat,
Republicans, and independents.

And so — and, by the way, I promise you, we’re putting it to good use. 
We’re opening hundreds of headquarters and so on and so forth all across
the country.  And we’re just getting this rooted in everyday campaign
techniques that are going out, particularly in the states that are the
toss-up states.

So, I think we’re going to be in good shape, but only because of you, if
it occurs.  We have to win.  We have to win.  Democracy, I think,
depends on it, for real.

So, thank you very much for your confidence.  And I promise you, I’ll do
everything in my power not to let you down.  (Applause.)

5:41 P.M. CDT
