---
date: '2024-04-24'
modified_time: 2024-04-24 13:39:31-04:00
published_time: 2024-04-24 13:39:30-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/04/24/remarks-as-prepared-for-delivery-by-first-lady-jill-biden-at-the-wounded-warrior-project-soldier-ride/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks as Prepared for Delivery by First Lady Jill\_Biden at the Wounded\
  \ Warrior Project Soldier\_Ride"
---
 
The South Lawn

Thank you, Sharona.

It takes incredible courage to not only heal, but to also share your
journey so that others can heal too. It’s that same bravery you called
on when you chose to put on the uniform and protect others.

Thank you and your daughter for your service.

Every time the President’s Own play, you fill the hearts of all who hear
you with pride – and today is no different. Let’s give the Marine Band
another round of applause for that incredible rendition of our National
Anthem. 

Warriors never ride alone.

That’s the promise of the Wounded Warrior Project – and, as you can see
today: it’s true.

Because this isn’t a race. It’s a ride.

It’s not about how fast you can go or leaving people in your dust. It’s
about riding as one.

And there’s a magic when you come together. In every look, laugh,
encouraging word, or maybe a smile, you pull each other through the
pedals, the miles, the days.

Recovery isn’t a race either. You don’t succeed by going faster. Some
days you may even feel like you aren’t moving at all. There are
challenges that never seem to go away. But warriors find a way forward,
together. Because healing is not a straight line. It’s a journey that
continues – and at some point, maybe today – you look back and realize
just how far you’ve come.

And it’s not just you.

Beside the riders here, there are families.

You – military spouses and kids – may not have worn a uniform, but you
serve our country too. Missions may end – wars may come to a close – but
the sacrifices that your families make endure.

The Bidens are a military family.

My father was a Navy Signalman in World War II. And our son, Major Beau
Biden, served for a year in Iraq as part of the Delaware Army National
Guard.

So, as a military mom, and as your First Lady, I want to let you know
how much all of you mean to me and to your Commander-in-Chief, President
Biden.

The United States doesn’t demand military service of our citizens – you
step forward: everyday heroes who sacrifice your own safety, willingly
and proudly, so that others can be free.

You represent the best of this country. And you and your families
deserve nothing less than our unconditional respect and support.

That’s what Joining Forces – my White House initiative to support
military and veteran families, caregivers, and survivors – is all about.

And so many of you have been with us from the beginning – have become
old friends. It’s great to see you again. Thank you for your ideas, your
hard work, and your collaboration. It’s what has allowed us to make so
much incredible progress over the last three years:

An historic Executive Order that expands veterans’ access to
high-quality, home-based care, which Joe signed last year. He got the
PACT Act done, which means more benefits and health care for veterans
harmed by toxins. His Administration is investing a record amount in
free mental health services for veterans. He’s removing barriers to
employment for military spouses, and pushing the private sector to hire
veterans and military spouses. And he’s working to end veteran
homelessness and prevent veteran suicide.

My husband often says that we have many obligations as a nation, but
only one sacred obligation: to support you and your families when we
send you into harm’s way, and when you return.

As President – and as a military dad – he never loses sight of that
conviction.

That’s why he’s working tirelessly to make sure you and your families
have what you need to thrive.

Today, and every day, we ride with you – your President, your nation,
and all of us here.

With all my heart, thank you for your service and sacrifice.

May God bless our military and veteran families, caregivers, and
survivors.

Now, it’s time to begin your ride!

\###
