---
date: '2024-04-08'
modified_time: 2024-04-09 12:18:32-04:00
published_time: 2024-04-08 15:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/04/08/remarks-by-president-biden-on-his-student-loan-debt-relief-plan-for-tens-of-millions-of-americans-madison-wisconsin/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on His Student Loan Debt Relief Plan for Tens\
  \ of Millions of Americans| Madison,\_Wisconsin"
---
 
Madison Area Technical College  
Madison, Wisconsin

1:26 P.M. CDT

THE PRESIDENT:  Hello, Wisconsin.  (Applause.)  Hello, hello, hello. 
Please, have a seat if there is — you have one.  (Laughter.)  
  
Gov, thank you.  Thank you for that nice introduction. 

And thank you, Ashley, for tha- — introducing me and sharing your
story.  I, like an awful lot of people in this audience had — was the
first in my family to go to college and watched my dad struggle to help
me get there and get all the kids there.  And it wasn’t easy.  
  
But, you know, I ask the rhetorical question: How can we be the leading
country in the world without the best education system in the world and
access to it?  
  
You and Sam are from rural Wisconsin, first in your families to go to
college — life partners, business partners, hardworking, paying off your
loans — only to see your dreams being crushed by student debt. 

But now, thanks to what we’re doing, that student debt is no longer
holding you back.  (Applause.)   
  
With this new freedom, you started your own business that helps women
and minority-owned businesses right here in Wisconsin.  (Applause.)   
  
That’s what this is all about.  I think we all, in this room, share one
goal: Give everybody a fair shot — just a shot — freedom to chase their
dreams. 

You know, you’ve got some of the great leaders of Wisconsin here as
well.  And I mean that sincerely.  I think Tony knows this: Your
governor — I think he’s one of the best governors in the United States. 
(Applause.)  And not just — you really are, Tony.  And what progress
we’ve made, and we’ve made a lot, is in no small part because of Tony. 
(Applause.)  
  
And the bad news for Tony is, we’ve become friends.  (Laughs.) 
(Applause.)

And, Mark, thank you, Representative.  Thanks for the passport to get
into the district.  I appreciate it.  You’re doing a hell of a job.   
  
And Madison Mayor, thank you — where is she?  There you are.  Stand up. 
(Applause.)  I get instructions from my wife, who’s a schoolteacher. 
She said, “Make sure you say hello to the mayor.  I really like being
with her.”  Thank you, Mayor, for taking care of her.  (Applause.)  
  
And the state and local \[and\] Tribal leaders here today, thanks for
making it available.  (Applause.)  Where are you?  There you — stand up,
Chief.  Thank you.  (Applause.)

And, by the way, it’s Indian Nations.  
  
And while she couldn’t be here, I’m always grateful for one of the best
senators in the United States Senate, Tammy Baldwin.  (Applause.)  She
really is.  She’s a great partner on education, infrastructure, buy
American, and so much more.  She’s done so much.  
  
And when Kamala and I ran this led in — in this lead county, we made a
commitment to fix our broken student loan system.  Because while a
college degree still is a ticket to the middle class, that ticket is
becoming much too expensive — much too expensive. 

In fact, things are a lot different from when college tuition was more
affordable and borrowing for college was — repaying those loans was re-
— more reasonable. 

Today, too many Americans, especially young people, are saddled with
unsustainable debts in exchange for a college degree.  The ability for
working- and middle-class folks to repay their student loans has become
so burdensome that a lot can’t repay it for even decades after being in
school.  And I mean that sincerely.  Many of you know that, sitting in
front of me.  Even when they have worked hard and pay their student
loans, their debt increases, not diminishes. 

Too many people feel the strain and stress, wondering if they’re going
to — can get married, have their first child, start a family, because,
even if they get by, they still have this crushing, crushing debt. 

That’s not — you know, it’s not just a drag on them, it’s a drag on our
local economies.  It’s a rag on — no, it really is.  It’s a drag on the
economies when you can’t afford to buy a home, start that small
business, chase that career that you’ve been dreaming about for a long
time.  
  
That’s why, early in my term, I announced a major plan to provide more
than 40 million working- and middle-class Americans student debt
relief.  Tens of millions — (applause) — tens of millions of people’s
debt was literally about to get canceled, but then some of my Republican
friends and elected officials and special interests sued us, and the
Supreme Court blocked us. 

But that didn’t —  
  
AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Well, that didn’t stop us.  No, I mean it sincerely.  We
continue to find alternative paths to reduce student debt payments —
(applause) — that are not challengeable.

And altogether, my administration has taken the most significant action
to provide student debt relief ever in the history of this country. 
(Applause.)  We started by fixing two existing programs to get more
people the student debt relief than their — that they were entitled to. 

First, we fixed what was called the Public Service Loan Forgiveness
program, which was designed — (applause) — to make sure those in public
service — schoolteachers, police officers, firefighters, social workers,
faith leaders, public servants — you get the student loan forgiven in 10
years if they’ve made their payments for those first 10 years.  And
after 10 years, in the student — in public service, they would have
their loan forgiven. 

When I took office, 7,000 public <s>service</s> \[servants\] had their
debt — 7,000 had their debts forgiven.  But the program wasn’t wor- —
working very well, so I called in the Department of Education and other
departments and said, “We got to fix this and fix it now.”  Thanks to
our reforms, nearly 900,000 have had their debts forgiven — (applause) —
including 16,400 right here in Wisconsin — right here in Wisconsin. 
(Applause.)

Second, we turned what’s called an income-driven repayment program,
which I’ve renamed the SAVE program — the most affordable repayment plan
ever.

Before I took office, student borrowers had to pay 10 percent of their
discretionary income on a monthly basis from what they borrowed — 10
percent discretionary income.  That’s the income after you pay
necessities like housing and food.  A lot of people didn’t have the
means to pay 10 percent, so I was able to (inaudible) my authority to
have the department cut that to 5 percent for undergraduate loans. 
(Applause.)

Now, that means no one with undergraduate loans, whether a community
college or a four-year college, would have to pay more than 5 percent of
their discretionary income to repay those loans starting in July —
starting in July of this year. 

And for millions of borrowers who make less than $32,000 a year now
after they’re out, their monthly student payments will be dropped to
zero as long as they’re that — (applause) — really.

And already, close to 8 million Americans have enr- — had enrolled in
the SAVE Plan, including 135,000 here in Wisconsin.  (Applause.) 

Because of our reforms, 25,000 people a month nationwide have been
receiving letters from me about their debt they had for four years — for
all those years is finally going to be forgiven.  But I’m not stopping
here. 

Today, I’m proud to announce five major actions to continue to relieve
student debt for more than 30 million Americans since this — I started
my administration. 

First, my administration will propose a new rule to cancel up to $20,000
in runaway interest for any borrower that owes more now — (applause) —
owes more now than when they started paying the loan.  (Applause.)  That
make — it’s a big difference. 

And for low- and middle-class families enrolled in my SAVE program,
we’ll cancel all of your interest — all of your interest. 
(Applause.)   

And second, we plan to cancel student debt for borrowers who still owe
student loans even though they started repaying them more than two
decades ago.  

Folks, third, we plan to cancel debt for about 2 million borrowers who
would be eligible for debt forgiveness through the SAVE program, Public
Service Loan Forgiveness, or other debt-canceling programs but are not
enrolled in these programs.  Some of you are only finding out after the
fact, you’re — as you’re a teacher, a firefighter, a cop, that you
qualify, but you just didn’t know about it before.  And now people are —
but you’re eligible no matter how long it’s been — you’ve been out of
the program.

Fourth, we plan to cancel debt for borrowers who the Department of
Education determines were cheated by universities that left students
with unaffordable loans and delivered little in benefits to students. 
(Applause.)

And you know — you know one of those — you know one of those colleges
was closed.  I won’t mention it.  (Laughter.)

And, finally, the Department of Education will propose a new rule to
cancel student debt for Americans facing financial hardships, from
childcare to healthcare, <s>to</s> \[that\] prevent them from paying
back their loans.  

And over the coming months, the Department of Education will propose and
then implement these plans. 

And starting this fall, we plan to deliver up to $20,000 in interest
relief to over 20 million borrowers and full forgiveness for millions
more.  (Applause.)

I can tell by the looks on some of your faces this relief — it’s not
news to you all.  Because this relief can be life-changing —
life-changing, just as you heard from Ashley.

Folks, I will never stop \[fighting\] to deliver student debt relief
<s>on</s> \[to\] hardworking Americans.  And it’s only in the interest
of America that we do it.  And, again, it’s for the good of our economy,
that’s growing stronger and stronger — and it is. 

By freeing millions of Americans from this crushing debt of student
debt, it means they can finally get on with their lives instead of being
put — their lives being put on hold. 

That’s why every American making student loan payments should go to
StudentAid.Gov — StudentAid.Gov to learn more about these plans and see
if you’re — if — if any of them fit for you. 

Look, that’s not all.  People say to me, “It’s great you’re helping
people \[get\] into college.  How about all those hardworking people who
grew up and had no opportunity to go to college?” 

I get it.  That’s the neighborhood I come from. 

That’s why a big part of my economic agenda is investing in all
Americans, whether you attend college or not. 

We’re expanding career and technical education at high schools — we —
and think how many of these shop programs have been dropped, people not
knowing whether they want to work with their hands, th- — not about
being able to get started — to provide pathways to good middle-class
jobs without college. 

My Labor Department is investing $200 million in grants for registered
apprenticeship programs around the country — (applause) — so for- —
folks can learn a skilled trade. 

And, by the way, parenthetically, you know all the money in the CHIPS
program I put together?  Well, guess what?  It’s going to invest over
$50 billion in new programs — new ability to make these chips here in
America.  And in those “fabs” they call them, guess what?  You know what
the average salary is?  A hundred and ten thousand dollars a year, and
you don’t need a college degree — (applause) — but you need a skill.

  
Programs like the one that — taught right here at Madison Technical
College that lead to good-paying jobs in high-growth fields — in clean
energy, healthcare, and technology. 

These apprenticeship programs are four and five years before you qualify
to have a license.  I love people saying, “Well, why are you — why are
you so pro-union, pro-labor?” 

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Wooo!

THE PRESIDENT:  The — well — (applause) — no — a lot of people think you
can walk up and say, “I want to be an electrician,” and you’re an
electrician.  Five years of apprenticeship.  It’s like going to
college.  Five years.

I also want to make — and I’ve been pushing this, and if I’m reelected,
I’m going to push it hard; we’re going to get it done next time — is I
want to make community college tuition free — (applause) — so you won’t
need loans at all.  It’ll cut in half the cost of going to college.

If we do this, the economic gains will far outweigh the cost.  And
that’s not hyperbole; that’s the truth. 

This is in addition to the historic investments we’re making to
moderfiz- — modernize our infrastructure: roads, bridges, high-speed
Internet, clean — clean water for every American.  We need more
qualified people doing this work to bring back manufacturing — back to
America, to build new factories in your communities. 

And I’m investing in the American agenda.  We expect to create millions
of jobs over the next decade.  We’ve already created over 15 million new
jobs — 15 million new jobs.  (Applause.)  And a significant number of
these do not require a college degree, including across Wisconsin. 

Let me close with this.  My dad used to say — and I’m — it’s not
hyperbole.  My dad was a hardworking guy.  He re- — well-read man, got
into college.  He’s from Bal- — they say — everybody thinks it’s
“Baltimore.”  It’s *Baltimore*.  (Pronounced in an accent.)  (Laughter.)

He was from Baltimore.  He — and he — he got into college to go to Johns
Hopkins.  I didn’t know that until after he had passed away.  But it was
during the war — just prior to the war.  He was working in the
shipyard.  And he couldn’t go.

But he used to always — he had this phrase.  He’d say, “Joey, a job is
about a lot more than a paycheck.  It’s about your dignity.  It’s about
respect.  It’s about having a place in the community where you, in fact,
are — feel like you belong.  It’s about being able to look your kid in
the eye and say, ‘Honey, it’s going to be okay.’” 

That’s what we’re doing.  We’re giving people a chance to make it — not
a guarantee, just a chance to make it.  And that’s why I’ve never been
more optimistic about our future. 

We just have to remember who we are.  We are the United States of
America.  And there’s nothing beyond our capacity if we do it together —
nothing, nothing, nothing.  (Applause.)

May God bless you all.  And may God protect our troops.

Thank you, thank you, thank you.  (Applause.)

1:40 P.M. CDT
