---
date: '2024-04-15'
modified_time: 2024-04-15 15:23:45-04:00
published_time: 2024-04-15 15:23:44-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/04/15/remarks-by-president-biden-and-prime-minister-mohammed-shyaa-al-sudani-of-the-republic-of-iraq-before-bilateral-meeting/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden and Prime Minister Mohammed Shyaa al-Sudani of\
  \ the Republic of Iraq Before Bilateral\_Meeting"
---
 
Oval Office

12:19 P.M. EDT

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Well, Mr. Prime Minister, welcome.  Welcome to the
White House.  Welcome to the Oval Office.

The — before I begin, I want to discuss some of the events that took
place in the Middle East the past weekend.

As you know, Iran launched an unprecedented aerial attack against
Israel, and we mounted an unprecedented military effort to defend
Israel.  Together with our partners, we defeated that attack.

The United States is committed to Israel’s security.  We’re committed to
a ceasefire that will bring the hostages home and prevent any conflict
from spreading beyond what it already has.

We’re also committed to the security of our personnel and partners in
the region, including Iraq.  The partnership between Iraq and the United
States is critical.  We’ve seen over the last decade as our troops have
served side by side to help defeat ISIS, and we’ve seen this in our
Strategic Framework Agreement as well. 

And I want to personally thank you, Mr. Prime Minister, for your focus
on strengthening Iraq’s economy and energy independence.  That’s a goal
we share today with you, and we’re going to discuss that later today.

Mr. Prime Minister, thank you again for being here.  Thank you for
making the effort to be here. 

Simply put, our partnership is pivotal for our nations, for the Middle
East, and, I believe, for the world.

Again, welcome, and the floor is yours.

PRIME MINISTER AL-SUDANI:  (As interpreted.)  Thank you, Mr. President,
in the name of God.  Thank you, Mr. President, for this invitation that
comes at a sensitive time.  Despite your domestic engagement in the
light of the developments on the international stage, this shows the
importance of this visit and meeting.

This visit and meeting are significant in the history of the bilateral
relations between our two countries.  The relationship between Iraq and
the United States is at an important juncture. 

We aim to discuss the sustainable foundations for a 360-degree strategic
partnership, ensuring a smooth and systematic transition from a military
security-based relationship to a comprehensive economic, political,
environmental, educational, and security partnership according to the
Strategic Framework Agreement.

The war against ISIS/Daesh formed the foundation of our relations over
the course of the past decade.  Mr. President, we have fought together
and we have achieved victory together.  And we have achieved a
remarkable victory thanks to the sacrifices of the Iraqi people and the
unity of all the components and the support of the international
community and the global coalition.

Iraq today is recovering, witnessing service projects, infrastructure
repairs.  And we are going to discuss today our sustainable partnership
according to the Strategic Framework.

We have laid down the transition methodology, according to the HMC
military committee.  The HMC — that is tasked to assess the level of a
threat operation on environmental requirements and the capability of the
ISF, Iraqi Security Forces.  And we will be committed to the outcomes of
this committee.

And we also have a Joint Security Cooperation Dialogue that will lay the
foundation for a sustainable bilateral relationship between the two
partners in the security and military fields.

Most importantly, the HCC, the High Coordination Committee, is actually
— have met today — today and discussed many things.  My government is
very serious about activating the

Strategic Framework Agreement.  There are many benefits that are going —
coming out of this for the two friendly countries of us. 

Mr. President, I came today carrying the concerns of my people, who
aspire for services for prosperity.  And — but that — that does not mean
that we forget about our humanitarian responsibility, about what’s
happening in the region.

And in the spirit of partnership, we may — our views may be divergent
about what’s happening there in the region, but we agree certainly about
the international law, the international humanitarian law, and the
responsibility to protect the law of war.  And we reject any aggression
against the civilians, especially women and children.  And we encourage
the commitment not to — about respecting international norms and
diplomatic relations.

As humanity, we need a system that respect these laws.  And we think if
we kept silent about what’s happening, that we will establish a
precedent that will be followed, whether it is bad or good precedent.

We’re actually very eager about stopping this war, which claimed the
life of thousands of civilians — women and children.  And we encourage
all the efforts about stopping the expansion of the area of conflict,
especially the latest development.  And we encourage all — for
restraints and to protect the safety and security of the region.

Thank you.

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Thank you.

12:30 P.M. EDT

 
