---
date: '2024-04-10'
modified_time: 2024-04-10 15:59:30-04:00
published_time: 2024-04-10 15:59:29-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/04/10/remarks-by-president-biden-and-prime-minister-kishida-fumio-of-japan-in-joint-press-conference/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden and Prime Minister Kishida Fumio of Japan in Joint\
  \ Press\_Conference"
---
 
Rose Garden

1:23 P.M. EDT

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Please, have a seat.

It’s an honor to stand here today with the Prime Minister of Japan,
President Kishi- — Prime Minister Kishida. 

When I became president, I said that the United States would rebuild the
muscle of our demo- — democratic alliances and we’d stand shoulder to
shoulder with our allies again, because our alliances are America’s
greatest asset.  The relationship with Japan is powerful proof of that —
that in investing in our alliance and raising our collective ambitions,
we yield remarkable results.

Over the last three years, the partnership between Japan and the United
States has been transformed into a truly global partnership.  And that’s
thanks in no small part to the courageous leadership of Prime Minister
Kishida.  And I mean that sincerely.

Together, our countries are taking significant steps to strengthen
defense and security cooperation, we’re modernizing command and control
structures, and we’re increasing the interoperability and planning of
our militaries so they can work together in a seamless and effective
way.

This is the most significant upgrade in our alliance since the end —
since it was first established. 

I’m also pleased to announce that for the first time, Japan and the
United States and Australia will create a networked system of air,
missile, and defense architecture.  We’re also looking forward to
standing up a trilateral military exercise with Japan and the United
Kingdom. 

And our AUKUS defense partnership with Australia and the United Kingdom
is exploring how Japan can join our work in the second pillar, which
focuses on advanced capabilities, including AI, autonomous systems.  All
told, that represents a new benchmark for our military cooperation
across a range of capabilities.

On the economic front, our ties have never been more robust.  Japan is
the top foreign investor in the United States.  Say that again: Japan is
the top foreign investor in the United States.  And we, the United
States, are the top foreign investor in Japan. Nearly 1 million
Americans work in Japanese companies here in the United States.

And to name just one example, a few months ago, Toyota announced an $8
billion investment in a massive battery production facility in North
Carolina, which will inc- — employ thousands of people.  The Prime
Minister is going to travel to North Carolina tomorrow to visit that
project. 

Don’t stay.  Don’t stay.  We need you back in Japan.  (Laughter.) 
They’ll probably try to keep you.

We also affirmed the science and education ties between Japan and the
United States.  Those tries — ties stretch up to the moon, where two
Japanese astronauts will join future American missions, and one will
become the first non-American ever to land on the moon. 

And they reach into the high schools and universities, as well, where
the Mineta Ambassadors — Minetas Program exists, named for our dear
friend Norm Mineta.  We’re going to invest in new student exchanges,
help train the next generation of Japanese and American leaders.  

We also discussed developments in the Middle East, including our shared
support for a ceasefire and a hostage deal and urgent efforts to deal
with the humanitarian crisis that exists in Gaza. 

We also want to address the Iranian threat to launch a sign- — they —
they’re threatening to launch a significant attack on Israel.  As I told
Prime Minister Netanyahu, our commitment to Israel’s security against
these threats from Iran and its proxies is ironclad.  Let me say it
again: ironclad.  We’re going to do all we can to protect Israel’s
security.

And, finally, I want to commend the Prime Minister himself.  He is a
statesman.  Command — you know, the fact is that you condemned Putin’s
invasion of — brutal invasion of Ukraine when it happened.  You pledged
more than $12 billion in aid; prioritizing nuclear nonproliferation at
the United Nations Security Council; standing strong with the United
States as we stand up for freedom of navigation, including in the South
China Sea and as we maintain peace and stability across the Taiwan
Straits; and taking the brave step of mending ties with the Republic of
Korea so we can all stand shoulder to shoulder together.

Tomorrow, we will both be joined by another good friend, President
Marcos of the Philippines, for a trilateral summit — the first of its
kind. 

And through it all, our commitment to the defense of Japan under Article
5, including the Sena- — excuse me — Senkaku Islands, is unwavering.

Mr. Prime Minister, through our partnership, we have strengthened this
alliance.  We have expanded our work together.  We have raised our
shared ambitions.  And now, the U.S.-Japan alliance is a beacon to the
entire world. 

There’s no limit to what our countries can and our people can do
together. 

So, thank you for your partnership, your leadership, and your
friendship. 

And now, over to you, Mr. Prime Minister.

PRIME MINISTER KISHIDA:  Thank you, Joe.

(As interpreted.)  President Biden and I have met and talked countless
times and confirmed our shared notion that we are at crucial crossroads
and that Japan-U.S. partnership is immensely important. 

The international community stands at a historical turning point.  In
order for Japan, the U.S., the Indo-Pacific region, and, for that
matter, the whole world to enjoy peace, stability, and prosperity
lasting into the future, we must resolutely defend and further solidify
a free and open international order based on the rule of law.

And again, today, I told the President that now is the time to
demonstrate the true values that Japan and the United States can offer
as global partners, that we must together fulfill our responsibilities
to create a world where human dignity is upheld and that Japan will
always stand firm with the United States.

I explained that, based on our national security strategy, Japan is
determined to strengthen our defense force through position of
counterstrike capabilities, increase our defense budget and other
initiatives, and was reassured by President Biden of his strong support
for such efforts.

In such context, we confirmed again the urgency to further bolster the
deterrence and response capabilities of our alliance and concurred on
reinforcing our security and defense cooperation to increase
interoperability between the U.S. forces and our self-defense forces,
including the improvement of our respective command-and-control
frameworks.

We will be discussing the specifics as we plan for the next Japan-U.S.
two-plus-two.

The President and I went on to discuss various specific challenges faced
by the international community. 

First, we confirmed that unilateral attempts to change status quo by
force or coercion is absolutely unacceptable, wherever it may be, and
that we will continue to respond resolutely against such action through
cooperation with allies and likeminded nations.

From such perspective, we agreed that our two countries will continue to
respond to challenges concerning China through close coordination.  At
the same time, we confirmed the importance of continuing our dialogue
with China and cooperating with China on common challenges.

We also underscored the importance of peace and stability in the Taiwan
Straits and confirmed our position to encourage peaceful resolution of
the Cross-Straits issue.

The situation in North Korea, including nuclear and missiles
development, was brought up as well.  We welcomed the progress seen in
many areas of cooperation based on the outcome of the Japan-U.S.-ROK
summit last August and concurred to coordinate even more closely as we
face serious concerns under the current state of affairs.

President Biden once again demonstrated his strong support towards the
immediate resolution of the abduction issue.

We reaffirmed the importance of realizing a free and open Indo-Pacific
based on the rule of law and concurred to maintain close collaboration
through various opportunities, including the Japan-U.S.-Philippines
summit, which is planned for tomorrow.

Regarding Russia’s aggression of Ukraine, based on

a recognition that Ukraine today may be East Asia tomorrow — taking the
issue as our own problem for Japan, I expressed our resolution to
continue with stringent sanctions against Russia and strong support for
Ukraine.  And we concurred to maintain close partnership with likeminded
countries.

On the situation in the Middle East, I expressed my respect for the
efforts of President Biden towards the release of the hostages,
improvement of the humanitarian situation, and for calming down the
situation.  I then explained how Japan is continuing diplomatic efforts
to improve the humanitarian situation and to realize a sustainable
ceasefire

and agreed to continue close cooperation towards the improvement of the
situation, the realization of a two-state solution, and the
stabilization of the region.

Regarding the economy, we firstly concurred that for both of us to lead
the global economic growth together, the promotion of investment in both
directions is important.  I explained how Japanese businesses are making
a significant contribution to the U.S. economy by the investment and the
creation of jobs, to which President Biden agreed.

In order to maintain and strengthen the competitive edge in the area of
advanced technologies and to respond appropriately to issues such as
economic coercion, non-market policies and practices, and excess
capacities and to overcome the vulnerability of the supply chains and to
lead a sustainable and inclusive economic growth, we affirmed that the
collaboration of Japan and the United States is indispensable. 

In addition, we concurred to advance our cooperation in the areas such
as decarbonization, AI, and start-ups. 

There was a huge achievement also in the area of space.  In the first
half of the 1960s, when I was in the United States, it was the dawn of
space development in the United States.  I am one of all those who were
so excited in the U.S. by the spectacular challenge in space. 

The implementing arrangement has been signed on this occasion and the
provision of the lunar rover by Japan and the allocation of two
astronaut flight opportunities to the lunar surface to Japan were
confirmed.  Under the Artemis program, I welcome the lunar landing by a
Japanese astronaut as the first non-U.S. astronaut. 

We also discussed the efforts towards a world without nuclear weapons. 
We affirmed the realistic and practical endeavors of nuclear
disarmament, including the issuance of the G7 Leaders’ Hiroshima Vision
last year.  And I welcomed the participation of the United States in the
FMCT Friends, which was launched by my initiative. 

Lastly, in order to further strengthen the people-to-people bond, which
is the cornerstone of our unwavering Japan-U.S. relationship, we
affirmed to further promote people-to-people exchanges. 

As the outcome of our meeting today, we will issue the joint statement
titled “The Global Partners for the Future.”  This is the expression of
the determination of Japan and the United States to maintain and
strengthen a free and open international order based on the rule of law
that underpins the peace, stability, and prosperity of the international
community and states the guiding principles. 

With our partnership, we will defend the future of Japan and the United
States, the Indo-Pacific, and the world and make that future all the
more prosperous. 

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Thank you.  Now we’ll take a few questions. 

Jordan Fabian of Bloomberg. 

Q    Thank you, Mr. President.  Last month, you predicted the Federal
Reserve would cut interest rates thanks to falling inflation.  But
today, data showed that inflation rose more than expected for the third
straight month.  So, how concerned are you about the fight against
inflation stalling?  And do you stand by your prediction for a rate cut?

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Well, I do stand by my prediction that before the year
is out there will a rate cut.  This may delay it a month or so.  I’m not
sure of that.  I don’t — we don’t know what the Fed is going to do for
certain. 

But, look, we have dramatically reduced inflation from 9 percent down to
close to 3 percent.  We’re in a situation where we’re better situated
than we were when we took office where we — inflation was skyrocketing. 
And we have a plan to deal with it, whereas the opposition — my
opposition talks about two things.  They just want to cut taxes for the
wealthy and raise taxes on other people. 

And so, I think they’re — they have no plan.  Our plan is one I think is
still sustainable. 

Q    Mr. Prime Minister, you said that the Nippon Steel acquisition of
U.S. Steel is a private matter.  But I’m wondering: Did you discuss the
matter today with President Biden?  And do you believe that politics are
influencing President Biden’s decision to oppose the deal?

And I wouldn’t mind, Mr. President, if you answer that one too. 

PRIME MINISTER KISHIDA:  (As interpreted.)  On the issue that you have
raised, we understand that discussions are underway between the
parties.  We hope these discussions will unfold in directions that would
be positive for both sides. 

Japan believes that appropriate procedures based on law is being
implemented by the U.S. government.  Japan is the largest investor to
the United States.  Japanese businesses employ close to 1 million
workers in the United States.  And investment from Japan to the U.S. can
only increase upwards in the months and years to come. 

And we wish to cement this win-win relationship.  Thank you. 

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  I stand by my commitment to American workers.  I ca- —
a man of my word, I’m going to keep it.  And with regard to that, I
stand by our commitment to our alliance.  This is exactly what we’re
doing — a strong alliance as well. 

Q    Nakakuki of Kyodo News.  My question is to both Prime Minister
Kishida and President Biden.  At the summit, you confirmed your strong
objections against unilateral attempts to change the status quo by force
or coercion by China and agreed on reinforcing response capabilities. 

Under current circumstances, should Japan and the United States bolster
defense capabilities?  China may become more preoccupied in military
expansion and intensify its coercive behavior.  That is the risk of
(inaudible).  In order to avoid divide and expa- — avoid the divide, how
should Japan and U.S. respond?

PRIME MINISTER KISHIDA:  (As interpreted.)  Let me then take that
question first.  At this summit, we confirmed that the United States and
Japan will resolutely defend and bolster a free and open international
order based on the rule of law and that Japan and the United States, as
global partners, shall work together for that purpose.

On challenges concerning China, including the point you raised on
objecting to unilateral attempts to change status quo by force or
coercion, we concurred that Japan and the United States as global
partners shall work in close coordination. 

And also, as I said previously, we will continue our dialogue with China
and we will cooperate with China in tackling common challenges.  And the
President and I confirmed the importance of such dialogue as well. 

Based on the solid trust with our ally, the United States, we will
continue to call on China to fulfill its responsibilities as a major
power. 

Japan’s policy, which I have consistently embraced, is to
comprehensively promote the mutual strategic relationship we have with
China and establish a constructive and stable Japan-China relationship
through efforts by both sides.  That has been my consistent position
that I have upheld.  We will continue to seek close communication with
China at all levels. 

That’s it for me.

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  You know, first of all, we keep improving our lines of
communications with one another — and that’s the United States and
China.  We — I’ve met — I’ve recently spoken at length with President
Xi.  And we’ve agreed that we would, number one, have personal contact
with one another whenever we want to discuss to anything so there’d be
no — nothing lipped — nothing slips between, as they say — between the
cup and the lip, so we know exactly what the other team is thinking. 
Number one. 

And so, we had a long discussion last — now almost — I guess almost two
weeks ago now.  And — the best way to reduce the chances of
miscalculation and misunderstanding.  That’s number one. 

Number two, in our alliance we have with Japan — is a purely defensive
in nature.  It’s a defensive alliance.  And the things we discussed
today improve our cooperation and are — and are purely about defense and
readiness.  It’s not aimed at any one nation or a threat to the region. 
And it — it doesn’t have anything to do with conflict.  And so, this is
about restoring stability in the region.  And I think we have a chance
of doing that. 

Okay.  Third que- — the next question.  Who — who do I call on next? 
Hang on a second.  I got my list here.  Hang on.  I apologize. 

Aurelia of AFP.

Q    Thank you.  My first question would go to both of you, Mr.
President and Mr. Prime Minister.  Is there a path for Japan to become a
full member of AUKUS? 

And I would have a second question for you, Mr. President.  You’re now
saying that Benjamin Netanyahu is making a mistake in Gaza.  What are
you willing to do to make him change his strategy?  And would you
consider conditioning military aid to Israel?  Thank you.

PRIME MINISTER KISHIDA:  (As interpreted.)  Thank you.  Your question
about AUKUS, I will respond.  Our country — we want to contribute to the
peace and stability of the region.  And therefore, we have consistently
supported AUKUS. 

Having said that, the participants of AUKUS — U.S., UK, Australia — with
such countries’ bi- — bilateral relationship or in multilateral
occasions, we have established various relationships.  But for Japan, to
have a direct cooperation with AUKUS, nothing has been decided at this
moment.

Going forward with U.S., UK, or with Australia — with such countries, in
bilateral or multilateral frameworks, we will continue our cooperation
so that they will continue to be considered.

At the moment, about the relationship between Japan and AUKUS, that’s
it.

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  With regard to my discussions with Bibi Netanyahu —
Prime Minister Netanyahu, as well as our relationship with Israel, I
have been very blunt and straightforward with the Prime Minister, as
well as his War Cabinet, as well as the Cabinet. 

And the fact of the matter is that Bibi and I had a long discussion.  He
agreed to do several things that related to, number one, getting more
aid — both food and medicine — into Gaza and reducing significantly the
attempts — the civilian casualties in any action taken in the region. 

And thus far — and we — and it’s tied to the hostages.  There are a
number of hostages that are being held by a — by the — Hamas.  And just
yesterday, we were meeting with the Vice President and our National
Security Advisor before that, and they — and there are American hostages
as well.  And they know how committed we are — the whole team — to
getting their loved ones home, and we’re not going to stop until we do.

The new proposal on the table — Bill Burns led the effort to — for us,
and we’re grateful for his work — there’s a now — up to Hamas.  They
need to move on the proposal that’s been made.  And as I said, it would
get these hostages home where they belong but also bring back a six-week
cea- — ceasefire that we need now. 

And the fact is that we’re — they’re getting in somewhere, in the last
three days, over a hundred trucks.  It’s not enough.  But it needs to be
— be more, and there’s one more opening that has to take place in the
north. 

So, we’ll see what he does in terms of meeting the commitments he made
to me. 

Okay —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  This will be the last reporter. 

PRIME MINISTER KISHIDA:  (As interpreted.)  Mr. Shimizu, please.

Q    (As interpreted.)  Thank you.  Shimizu of NHK.  I ask the question
to both of you. 

As Prime Minister Kishida mentioned, the abduction issue of North Korea,
I believe, was discussed.  Prime Minister, you have expressed your wish
to have a direct engagement with Kim Jong Un.  But they say that
abduction is already result, which means that they are refusing.  During
the meeting, what did you tell President Biden about the outlook of a
summit?  And what engagement did you ask President Biden?

President Biden, my question: What did you hear from Prime Minister
Kishida?  And what is your observation and feeling, your President, with
the nuclear missile issues?  What is your position?  Do you support the
summit between Japan and North Korea?  Thank you. 

PRIME MINISTER KISHIDA:  (As interpreted.)  First of all, if I may
start, regarding my summit meeting with President Biden about North
Korea, including the missile and nuclear issues we have discussed, and
regarding the increasingly worrying situation, we have agreed to
continue a close coordination. 

And on top of that, we concurred that the window of a discussion with
North Korea is open.  And we discussed that Japan, U.S. — Japan, U.S.,
and ROK will continue to work closely together. 

I also asked for the continued understanding and cooperation for the
immediate resolution of the abduction issue.  And President Biden once
again gave myself a very strong assurance regarding the recent
announcement by North Korea.

I will refrain from commenting on each and every announcement by North
Korea.  But as I have been mentioning repeatedly, based on the
perspective that the establishment of a meaningful relationship between
Japan and North Korea is in the interest of both Japan and North Korea
and that it could be hugely beneficial to the peace and stability of the
region, my policy is to aim for a summit meeting with North Korea to
resolve various issues and will advise high-level consultation directly
under my instruction.  And that remains unchanged.   
  
That is my response.

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  We did discuss this issue.  We both agreed the DPRK
must — must also address the serious human rights and humanitarian
concerns of the international community, including the immediate
resolution of the abduction issue.

But, you know, the Prime Minister has just spoken to the potential of
what his plans may mean.  But welcome — I welcome the opportunity — we
welcome the opportunity of our allies to initiate dialogue with the
Democratic Republic of Korea.

As I’ve said many times, we’re open to dialogue ourselves at any time
wi- — but without preconditions from the DPRK.   
  
So, I have faith in the — in the — Japan.  I have faith in the Prime
Minister.  And I think his seeking a dialogue with them is a good
thing.  It’s a positive thing. 

Thank you.

Q    Sir, on the issue of abortion — 

Q    What will you do if Israel invades Rafah?

Q    On the issue of abortion, sir, what do you say to the people of
Arizona?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  This concludes the press conference.  Thanks,
everybody.

Q    Mr. President, are the American hostages alive?

Q    What will you do if Israel invades Rafah?

(Cross-talk.)

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Why doesn’t everybody holler at once?

Q    I’ll ask you briefly.  On the issue of abortion, sir, respectfully,
what do you say to the people of Arizona right now who are witnessing a
law go in place that dates back to the Civil War era? 

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Elect me.  I’m in the 20 — it’s the 20th century —
21st century, not back then.  They weren’t even a state.  I find —

Q    Sir, how does the —

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  I —

Q    What will you do if Israel invades Rafah?

Q    Mr. President, how does the war in Ukraine come to an end?

(Cross-talk.)

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Thank you.  Thank you all very much.  Thank you.

Q    Sir, how does the —

(Cross-talk.)

Q    Can you elaborate on what mistake Netanyahu is making, sir?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thanks, everybody.

Q    How does the war in Ukraine come to an end, sir?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  This concludes the press conference.

(Cross-talk.) 

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  By the House — by the Hou- — the war in Ukraine comes
to an end by the House Leader allowing a vote.  There’s overwhelming
support for Ukraine among the majority of Democrats and Republicans. 
There should be a vote now.

(Cross-talk.)

Q    Are the American hostages alive?

Q    Will you reconsider the LNG export ban, sir?

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  There is no ban to Japan. 

1:53 P.M. EDT
