---
date: '2024-04-05'
published_time: 2024-04-05 13:22:56-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/04/05/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-on-the-historic-investments-in-climate-action/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris on the Historic Investments in Climate\_\
  Action"
---
 
*Naomi Drenan Recreation Center  
Charlotte, North Carolina*  
  
(April 4, 2024)

2:28 P.M. EDT  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon, everyone.   Good afternoon.  Please
have a seat.  Please have a seat.   
  
Donnetta, thank you for that introduction and all the work you’ve been
doing at Self-Help.  I’m going to talk about that work in a minute.   
  
But I really — I really appreciate the fact that the spirit behind the
announcements we’re making today really are about our community leaders
and the love, the passion, the commitment, the drive, the ambition that
our community leaders have, knowing that when we see and understand who
the community is, everyone will benefit.  Everyone will benefit.  So,
thank you for that.   
  
Mayor Lyles — Mayor Lyles, thank you for once again welcoming me to your
beautiful city and for all the leadership that you have provided and the
partnership you have provided to the President and me.  I want to thank
you for that.   
  
And, of course, it is so good to be back in this beautiful state with so
many incredible leaders.   
  
The Administrator, Michael Regan, who has been so bold and innovative as
a leader for the EPA.   
  
And then I just — you know I’m going to talk about you — my
Congresswoman.  I mean, I know I don’t live in your district, but —
(laughter) — the great Alma Adams, a long-standing champion of North
Carolina’s families and a dear, dear friend to me for the years that I
have been in Washington, D.C., before as a senator and now as vice
president.   
  
And many of you may know of her extraordinary work, including being the
co-founder of the Black Maternal Health Caucus and all your work there. 
(Applause.)  Thank you.  Thank you.  
  
And so, thank you to everyone here for all your work.   
  
So, we are here today to address two issues that are critical to the
strength of our economy and the future of our nation: access to capital
and building a clean energy economy.  (Applause.)  Yes.  
  
So, as you have now heard, since taking office, the President and I have
made an incredible investment, the largest investment ever, to take on
the climate crisis: roughly a trillion dollars — with a T — (laughter) —
I had to — (laughter and applause) — over the next 10 years.  And that
investment to create millions of jobs; to provide billions of dollars of
clean energy money and investment to small businesses and entrepreneurs;
to lower monthly energy bills for families across our nation; and to
expand access to capital.  
  
In every community in our nation, there are, of course, extraordinary
people with talent, ingenuity, and the ability to help us take on the
climate crisis: entrepreneurs, who I’ve met, who founded an innovative
solar and wind power start-up that can help reduce our greenhouse gas
emissions; in communities where there are small-business owners who help
produce the batteries that power our nation’s fleet of electric
vehicles; and, of course, community organizers that help millions of
families make their homes more energy efficient to lower their energy
bills.   
  
But while every community has the capacity to join the clean energy
economy, not every community has had the opportunity to do that.   
  
As vice president, I have met with climate leaders from communities
across our nation — from rural Arizona, to downtown Detroit; from
Dalton, Georgia, to Denver, Colorado, to Durham.  And I can tell you
that I have seen firsthand that in too many places, too many people with
all of that talent there have still had limited opportunity to access to
capital to do the work that they want to do to start and grow a clean
energy business, to make their homes more energy efficient, or to
install solar panels or EV chargers in their community.   
  
So, I have fought for years with so many of you — we have fought
together shoulder to shoulder — to expand access to capital for every
community.  And as you heard, as a United States senator, I was proud to
— to gain more than $12 billion, which we secured for our nation’s
community banks.  And those are, of course, financial institutions which
are run by folks who live, work, and invest in the communities they
serve.   
  
And then, as vice president, in 2022, I launched the Economic
Opportunity Coalition, which is a coalition of banks, technology
companies, and nonprofits, to invest billions of dollars in community
banks from the private sector so they can make more loans under what we
know to be circumstances where we’re looking at communities that have
been underserved, including our rural communities.   
  
And so far, the Economic Opportunity Coalition has invested over a
billion dollars across our country.   
  
And then, last year, we announced the largest investment in our nation’s
history, $20 billion, to create a national network of nonprofits to
expand access to capital for community-based climate projects — projects
run by leaders from the community.  (Applause.)  Yes.  And the majority
of this $20 billion will go to communities that have historically been
left out and left behind.   
  
And here is what is special about this announcement: For the first time
in history, we are providing tens of billions of dollars directly to
community lenders to finance local climate projects.   
  
This is a novel approach.  It is actually the first time we have taken
this approach, because we know that we have the capacity with this
approach to empower communities to decide which projects they want, that
will have the greatest impact from their perspective in the place they
call home.  And then we can invest in those projects in a way that will
actually have value for the people who live there, instead of us from
Washington, D.C., telling you what you need.  (Applause.)  And that is
critically important.   
  
And so, today, our announcement is that we have chosen eight nonprofits
to lead this work, from a community of — of banks that are a network
that serve Native communities, to a rural economic development
collective that works in Appalachia, to a group of lenders that focus on
economic and climate justice.  Yes.   
  
And this $20 billion investment will allow these eight nonprofits to
fund tens of thousands of community-based climate projects.   
  
So, I’d like you to imagine what this means.   
  
Imagine, for example, the young entrepreneur who wants to launch a
startup to repair electric vehicle chargers, and that this person can
now get a small-business loan to hire her first employees.   
  
Imagine a small-business owner who can now take out a line of credit to
buy a fleet of electric delivery vehicles so he can stop paying for gas
and reduce pollution at the same time.   
  
Imagine a house of worship that can now get a zero-interest loan so they
can install solar panels to generate clean energy through electricity
for the entire neighborhood.   
  
Our investment will also help lower energy bills for homeowners and
renters.  When President Biden and I first ran for office, folks told us
we — we have to take on the climate crisis and we have to also lower
monthly energy bills.  Well, the investment we’re talking about today
will do both.   
  
For example, today, I visited Grier Heights — (applause) — and as many
of you know, it is an his- — an historically Black neighborhood here in
Charlotte.  And over the past two decades, the community bank Self-Help
worked with residents and community organizations to install good
insulation, high-quality windows, and new electric appliances in 49
homes in this part of Charlotte to make them more energy efficient.   
  
So, earlier today, before I arrived here, I visited with one of those
homes and met Levon, who is here with his two beautiful sons —
(applause) — the baby, who is napping after our visit — (laughter) — and
the older young leader’s son who was talking with me about how he was
watching the Shirley Chisholm documentary.  And I told him I’m counting
on his leadership.   
  
And — and they were so kind to — to welcome us to — to visit with them. 
Levon is a small-business owner and a former middle school teacher.  And
— and he shared with me that last — in his last home, every month, he
paid $300 for his gas bill and $300 for his electricity bill.   
  
After moving into one of Self-Help’s energy-efficient homes, Levon’s
total energy bill — total — dropped to around $100 a month. 
(Applause.)  
  
And he offered to me what that meant for him as a young father of young
children.  He said, well, that savings now allows him to have more money
to pay for childcare.  He’s a small-business owner; he needs childcare
for his children.  He said that he and his spouse now are putting aside
at least $50 a month for each of their sons for their savings account
for college or whatever they choose to do.   
  
So, let’s think about what this means.  Yes, we talk about cutting
energy costs.  But when we’re talking about real people with their
dreams and aspirations and responsibilities and obligations, this is a
big deal.   
  
So, today’s investment will allow Self-Help and other nonprofits to help
30,000 more families across our nation upgrade their homes.  And that is
just the beginning.   
  
But think about it: Soon, 30,000 more families will have the funds they
need to replace drafty windows and install better insulation to keep
their homes warm in the winter and cool in the summer and, here in North
Carolina, to help you lower that monthly Duke Energy bill.  (Applause.) 
You’re welcome.  (Laughs.)  Right?  
  
And just like Levon, 30,000 more families will now have the opportunity
to save potentially hundreds of dollars every month and with more money
in their pocket, then, for groceries and school supplies and
childcare.   
  
Our $20 billion public investment will also serve as an investment for
the private sector.  And I met with the leaders of the eight non- —
nonprofits before I came out to thank them.  Because over the next seven
years, this $20 billion public investment will incentivize more than
$100 billion in private-sector investing.   
  
And I know, and I think everyone here knows, that there is great power
in public-private partnerships, which demonstrate how much we can
accomplish when we combine the experience and expertise of the private
sector with the scale and capacity of government.   
  
So, all of that being said, we also know that this investment is going
to create jobs — good-paying union jobs; jobs for the workers of IBEW,
who are going to install the energy-efficient lighting; jobs for sheet
metal workers who can replace the dirty furnaces and — and replace them
with clean electric heat pumps; and jobs for the laborers who will build
affordable, energy-efficient housing.   
  
So, I’ll conclude with this.  This investment demonstrates an important
point: When we invest in climate, we create jobs, we lower costs, and we
invest in families.   
  
When we expand access to capital and give every person in our nation, no
matter who they are or where they live, the opportunity to pursue their
dreams, we build a cleaner, healthier, and more equitable and more
prosperous future for everyone.   
  
Thank you all.  (Applause.)  
  
May God bless you.  And God bless America.   
  
Thank you.  Thank you.  
  
END                2:44 P.M. EDT

\###
