---
date: '2024-05-31'
modified_time: 2024-05-31 18:23:15-04:00
published_time: 2024-05-31 15:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/05/31/president-biden-announces-key-appointments-to-boards-and-commissions-37/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key Appointments to Boards and\_Commissions"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Biden announced his intent to appoint the
following individuals to serve in key roles:

-   Brian Bryant, to be a Member of the President’s Export Council
-   Shawn P. Fain, to be a Member of the President’s Export Council
-   Mariano-Florentino Cuéllar, to be a Member of the President’s
    Intelligence Advisory Board
-   Ronald S. Moultrie, to be a Member of the President’s Intelligence
    Advisory Board
-   Calvin Smyre, to be a Member of the President’s Intelligence
    Advisory Board
-   John F. Cordisco, to be a Member of the United States Commission for
    the Preservation of America’s Heritage Abroad

**<u>President’s Export Council</u>**

The President’s Export Council serves as the principal national advisory
committee on international trade. The Council advises the President of
government policies and programs that affect U.S. trade performance;
promotes export expansion; and provides a forum for discussing and
resolving trade-related problems among the business, industrial,
agricultural, labor, and government sectors.

**Brian Bryant, to be a Member of the President’s Export Council**

Brian Bryant has been active in the labor movement for nearly 35 years,
initiating into the International Association of Machinists and
Aerospace Workers (IAM) in 1989 when he joined Local Lodge S6 while
employed at Bath Iron Works in Bath, Maine. He became the IAM’s 15th
International President on January 1, 2024. A pipefitter by trade,
Bryant became active in his Local Lodge serving on various committees,
as well as being elected as a Shop Steward, Trustee, and President of
Local Lodge S6. He also served on the Executive Board of the Maine
AFL-CIO, and in 1998 was elected Directing Business Representative of
District Lodge 4.

In 2004, Bryant was appointed as a Special Representative in the Eastern
Territory. He was appointed Grand Lodge Representative in 2006 assigned
to the states of Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, and Massachusetts as
well as shipbuilding and repair in the Eastern Territory. In 2008,
Bryant was reassigned to the Eastern Territory office in Cincinnati to
handle all National Labor Relations Board activity for the territory. On
July 1, 2009, he was appointed to the position of Chief of Staff of the
Eastern Territory.

Bryant served in that capacity until being appointed to the IAM
Executive Council as General Vice President assigned to the Eastern
Territory on July 1, 2016. On August 1, 2016, Bryant began as General
Vice President serving in the General Secretary-Treasurer’s office until
becoming Headquarters General Vice President then becoming the IAM’s
15th International President. Bryant and his wife, Kellie, have a
daughter, Addison, and son, Samuel.

**Shawn P. Fain, to be a Member of the President’s Export Council**

United Auto Workers (UAW) President Shawn P. Fain is a 29-year member of
the UAW. Hailing from a family of UAW members, Fain got his start with
the union in 1994 as an electrician for Chrysler at Kokomo Casting Plant
in his hometown of Kokomo, Indiana. Two of his grandparents were UAW GM
retirees and one grandfather started at Chrysler in 1937, the year the
workers joined the union.

Fain served his local at every level from Education & Bylaws Chair to
CAP Chair, to being elected to five terms as a Skilled Trades
Committeeman, and Plant Shop Chairman for Local 1166. In 2007, Fain was
anti-ratification due to the agreement implementing tiers and cutting
workers’ wages in half. He also stood against plant idling, plant
closures, and other dividing issues that workers have faced in the past
20 plus years. He was a UAW Negotiator in 2009, during the Chrysler
Bankruptcy, and was elected again as negotiator in 2011. He became an
International Representative of the UAW in 2012, where he continued to
fight for a better standard of living for all UAW members. In 2015, he
chaired the International Skilled Trades Sub-committee.

The membership elected Fain to the office of UAW President in the
first-ever direct election for the International Executive Board and he
was sworn in as President on March 26, 2023. Fain led the UAW in its
historic Stand Up Strike and subsequent Stand Up Movement to organize
the entire auto industry and move the working class to action.

**<u>President’s Intelligence Advisory Board</u>**

The President’s Intelligence Advisory Board is an independent element
within the Executive Office of the President. The President’s
Intelligence Advisory Board exists exclusively to assist the President
by providing the President with an independent source of advice on the
effectiveness with which the intelligence community is meeting the
nation’s intelligence needs and the vigor and insight with which the
community plans for the future. The President is able to appoint up to
16 members of the Board.

**Mariano-Florentino Cuéllar, to be a Member of the President’s
Intelligence Advisory Board**

Mariano-Florentino (Tino) Cuéllar is the tenth President of the Carnegie
Endowment for International Peace, a global research institution with
operations in the U.S., Asia, the Middle East, and Europe created by
Andrew Carnegie in 1910 to support diplomacy and advise policymakers on
international conflict and cooperation. A former justice of the Supreme
Court of California, Cuéllar has served three U.S. presidential
administrations at the White House and in federal agencies, and was the
Stanley Morrison Professor at Stanford University, where he held
appointments in law, political science, and international affairs. At
Stanford, he also led the Freeman Spogli Institute for International
Studies, the University’s hub for research and education on
international affairs, and earlier, its Center for International
Security and Cooperation. His books and articles focus on problems in
American public law and democracy since the U.S. became a global power,
how fast-evolving technologies like artificial intelligence affect
public institutions, and how countries respond to emerging risks and
cross-border challenges such as controlling illicit financial activity
and protecting public health. He chairs the board of the William & Flora
Hewlett Foundation, serves on the U.S. Department of State’s Foreign
Affairs Policy Board, and is a member of the American Academy of Arts
and Sciences. Raised in communities along the U.S.-Mexico border,
Cuéllar graduated from Harvard College and Yale Law School, and received
a Ph.D. in Political Science from Stanford.

**Ronald S. Moultrie, to be a Member of the President’s Intelligence
Advisory Board**

Ronald S. Moultrie served as the Under Secretary of Defense for
Intelligence and Security for the Biden-Harris Administration from June
2021 through February 2024. He was a member of the Biden-Harris
Presidential Transition Team focused on national security. Moultrie also
served in the Office of the Director of National Intelligence, was the
National Security Agency’s (NSA) Director of Operations, served as a
member of Central Intelligence Agency’s (CIA) Senior Intelligence
Service, and in the U.S. Air Force. Moultrie was a key principal on the
Secretary of the Navy’s Cybersecurity Readiness Review and subsequently
led the creation of the Department’s digital roadmap focused on
cybersecurity, data, and emerging technologies such as AI, 5G, and
Quantum computing.

Moultrie’s numerous awards include the Presidential Rank Award, the U.S.
Department of Defense Medal for Distinguished Public Service, two
Department of the Navy Distinguished Civilian Service Awards, two
National Intelligence Distinguished Service Medals, the National
Intelligence Superior Service Medal, the CIA National Clandestine
Service’s Donovan Award, the National Reconnaissance Office’s Gold
Medal, three NSA Exceptional Civilian Service Awards, the Defense
Meritorious Service Medal, and the Meritorious Service Medal. Moultrie
earned a Master of Science degree from the National Intelligence
University, and a bachelor’s degree from the University of Maryland,
magna cum laude.

**Calvin Smyre, to be a Member of the President’s Intelligence Advisory
Board**

Calvin Smyre served for 48 years as an elected State Representative in
the Georgia General Assembly. He was the “Dean” of the House and served
as Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus. He is President Emeritus of
the National Black Caucus of State Legislators and a former member of
the National Conference of State Legislators. Smyre’s distinguished
record includes legislation making Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.’s
birthday a state holiday, creating the Georgia Dome, establishing the GA
HOPE Scholarship Program, creating a new Georgia state flag, the GA Hate
Crime Act of 2020, and the repeal of the 1863 Citizens Arrest Law. In
1986 he was appointed the Governor’s Administrative Floor Leader and in
2001 he was appointed Chairman of the Democratic Party of Georgia,
becoming the first African American to hold both positions.

In 2023, Smyre was nominated by President Biden and appointed by the
U.S. Department of State to serve as Representative of the United States
to the 78th Session of the United Nations General Assembly. He has been
the recipient of numerous awards, including the Congressional Black
Caucus’ prestigious Phoenix Award, being named twice as “Citizen of the
Year” in his hometown of Columbus, Georgia, and he has been inducted
into Georgia Trend Magazine’s Business Hall of Fame. Smyre served on the
Boards of Columbus Museum, Columbus RiverCenter for the Performing Arts,
Morehouse School of Medicine, and Fort Valley State University
Foundation as its Chair. In the private sector, he retired in 2014 as
Executive Vice President of Corporate Affairs of Synovus Financial
Corporation and President of Synovus Foundation. He earned a Bachelor of
Science from Fort Valley State University and was awarded an Honorary
Doctorate of Humane Letters from the Morehouse School of Medicine. Smyre
is a lifelong native of Columbus, Georgia and a member of Greater Ward
Chapel African Methodist Episcopal (AME) Church. He has one deceased
daughter and two grandchildren.

**<u>United States Commission for the Preservation of America’s Heritage
Abroad</u>**

The United States Commission for the Preservation of America’s Heritage
Abroad was established in 1985 to ensure that sites important to
populations impacted by Nazism, communism, and the Cold War would be
preserved for future generations. The Commission’s mission is to
identify, protect, and preserve cemeteries, monuments, and historic
buildings in Eastern and Central Europe that are associated with U.S.
heritage. The work recognizes that the population of the United States
is mostly comprised of immigrants and their descendants, and that the
United States has an interest in the preservation of sites in other
countries related to the heritage of these Americans.

**John F. Cordisco, to be a Member of the United States Commission for
the Preservation of America’s Heritage Abroad**

John F. Cordisco began practicing law in 1987 and has spent the last 37
years representing victim’s rights. He is currently a partner at the law
firm of Cordisco & Saile located in Trevose, Pennsylvania. At the age of
24, he was elected to the Pennsylvania House of Representatives. He
served three terms and was credited for legislation establishing the
Pennsylvania Vietnam Veterans’ Commission, which is still active today
assisting veterans exposed to Agent Orange, as well as the construction
of a third Veterans’ Home located in southeastern Pennsylvania. For his
efforts, Cordisco has been recognized by several Veterans’ Groups,
including the American Legion, Veterans of Foreign Wars, and The
National Vietnam Veterans’ Organization.

Since leaving the legislature, Cordisco has chaired and served on
several state and local boards and agencies including the Southeastern
Pennsylvania Transportation Authority, Pennsylvania Supreme Court
Disciplinary Board, Bucks County Community College Authority, and the
Pennsylvania Joint Toll Commission. Beyond politics and law, Cordisco’s
humanitarian efforts include the creation of Have a Heart, a charity
responsible for financing summer programs and two accessible playgrounds
in Bucks County, Pennsylvania. Additionally, Cordisco has partnered with
charities responsible for the construction of infrastructure, schools,
orphanages, feeding centers, and housing throughout Central America. He
graduated from Rider University with a B.A. and subsequently earned his
J.D. from Temple School of Law. Cordisco is the father of three children
and six grandchildren. He currently resides in Newtown, Bucks County,
Pennsylvania.

\# \# \#
