---
date: '2024-05-10'
modified_time: 2024-05-10 14:48:43-04:00
published_time: 2024-05-10 15:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/05/10/president-biden-announces-key-appointments-to-boards-and-commissions-36/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key Appointments to Boards and\_Commissions"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Biden announced his intent to appoint the
following individuals to serve in key roles:

-   Callisia N. Clarke, to be a Member of the National Cancer Advisory
    Board
-   Karen Emmons, to be a Member of the National Cancer Advisory Board 
-   Tamika Felder, to be a Member of the National Cancer Advisory Board 
-   Edjah K. Nduom, to be a Member of the National Cancer Advisory
    Board 
-   Brian K. Bond, to be a Member of the President’s Commission on White
    House Fellowships 
-   Nicole Isaac, to be a Member of the President’s Commission on White
    House Fellowships 

<!-- -->

-   Amy Robbins Towers, to be a Member of the President’s Council on
    Sports, Fitness, & Nutrition 
-   Bruce Redman Becker, to be a Member of the U.S. Commission of Fine
    Arts 
-   William J. Lenihan, to be a Member of the U.S. Commission of Fine
    Arts 

**<u>National Cancer Advisory Board</u>**

The National Cancer Advisory Board plays an important role in guiding
the Director of the National Cancer Institute in setting the course for
the national cancer research program. The National Cancer Advisory Board
will complement the Cancer Moonshot, which President Biden reignited to
end cancer as we know it – including by making sure his Administration
is investing in research and development that will help advance
breakthroughs to prevent, detect, and treat diseases like cancer.

**Callisia N. Clarke, to be a Member of the** **National Cancer Advisory
Board**

Dr. Callisia Clarke completed her medical degree and general surgery
residency at the University of Cincinnati College of Medicine, where she
was elected to the Alpha Omega Alpha Honors Society. She then went on to
complete a clinical and research fellowship in Complex General Surgical
Oncology at The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center. Clarke
joined the faculty at the Medical College of Wisconsin in 2016 and is
now an Associate Professor of Surgery and the Division Chief of Surgical
Oncology. Her research efforts center on epigenetic regulation of
pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors and surgical workforce diversification
as a means to ameliorate cancer disparities. Clarke is nationally
recognized and an expert in cancer disparities and management of
gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumors. She holds several
leadership positions in national organizations. Clarke is the President
of the Association for Academic Surgery, the first Black woman to hold
this office, and serves in other major leadership roles in the Society
of Surgical Oncology and the American Board of Surgery.

**Karen Emmons,** **to be a Member of the** **National Cancer Advisory
Board**

Karen Emmons is a Professor of Social and Behavioral Science at the
Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health. She has expertise in cancer
equity and in implementation science. Her work focuses on
community-engaged approaches to implementation of cancer prevention
interventions in settings that serve historically disadvantaged
communities. She has more than 300 peer-reviewed publications and has
served as PI for multiple National Institutes of Health-funded research
projects and centers. She also serves as Faculty Director of the
Community Engagement Program for Harvard’s Clinical Translational
Science Award, Harvard Catalyst, which focuses on advancing
evidence-based strategies to improve community health and creating
bi-directional relationships between community partners and researchers.
She serves as the MPI of Harvard Chan’s T32 training grant in cancer
prevention and control and has received multiple mentoring awards. Her
research has also been recognized by honors including the Morse
Distinguished Researcher Award, Outstanding Senior Cancer Scientist
Award from the Society of Behavioral Medicine, and Outstanding Scientist
Award from the Society of Behavioral Medicine. She isPast-President of
the Society of Behavioral Medicine, a member of the National Academy of
Medicine, and a member of the Community Preventive Services Task Force.

**Tamika Felder,** **to be a Member of the** **National Cancer Advisory
Board**

Tamika Felder founded Cervivor, Inc. in 2005 after surviving cervical
cancer in her mid-twenties. As the non-profit’s Chief Visionary, she has
been pivotal in dismantling the disease’s stigma. Through initiatives
like the renowned Cervivor School, she has empowered ambassadors
worldwide to speak out about cervical cancer.

Though Felder says her advocacy journey began on the day of her
diagnosis, she didn’t start publicly discussing her experience as both a
young adult cancer survivor and a person of color until 2003, when she
spoke at events like the annual National Black Family Reunion on the
National Mall and represented Maryland in a President’s Cancer Panel
meeting. Later, she addressed Maryland legislators in support of a law
to safeguard fertility options for young adult cancer patients, which
was enacted in 2018. Beyond fighting for patients, Felder is a strong
supporter of research to eliminate this disease. She has testified
before the FDA about cervical cancer prevention and the need for
increased access to HPV vaccination, and serves on the steering
committee of the National Cervical Cancer Roundtable and the National
HPV Vaccination Roundtable.

Felder has testified on Capitol Hill and participated in Presidential
panels, including moderating a panel of experts at a Cancer Moonshot
forum. Her accolades include the Women in Government’s “Presidential
Leadership Award” and the Ulman Cancer Fund for Young Adults’ “Young
Adult Fight” Award. A published author and award-winning filmmaker,
Felder’s story has been featured across media outlets, documentaries,
and books. She has also penned various academic articles and is
currently producing a documentary about cervical cancer.

**Edjah K. Nduom,** **to be a Member of the** **National Cancer Advisory
Board**

Dr. Edjah K. Nduom, MD, is the Daniel Louis Barrow Endowed Chair and
Associate Professor in Neurosurgery at Emory University School of
Medicine. Additionally, he leads the Brain Tumors Disease Group at
Winship Cancer Institute. Nduom is renowned internationally for his
contributions to the neurosurgical and brain tumor community, having
founded the Society for Neuro-Oncology Sub-Saharan Africa and held roles
such as Scientific Program Chair for the Congress of Neurological
Surgeons Annual Meeting and Chair of the Board of Directors of the
National Brain Tumor Society.

His research spans basic, translational, and clinical realms, with a
focus on developing innovative immune therapy treatments for malignant
brain tumors. Supported by grants from the National Institute of
Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) and private foundations, Nduom
has presented his work at numerous national and international
conferences.

Nduom obtained his B.S. in Biomechanical Engineering from Stanford
University in 2002 and his M.D. from the University of Pennsylvania in
2006. He completed Neurosurgical training at Emory University, including
a Research Fellowship in Neurosurgical Oncology at the Surgical
Neurology Branch of the NINDS. Following this, he pursued an additional
Neurosurgical Oncology Fellowship at The University of Texas MD Anderson
Cancer Center, where he was honored with the Jesse H. Jones Fellowship
in Cancer Education. Before returning to Emory, Nduom served on the
faculty of the Surgical Neurology Branch of the NINDS Intramural
Research Program from 2015 to 2020.

**<u>President’s Commission on White House Fellowships</u>**

The President’s Commission on White House Fellowships is composed of
outstanding citizens who reflect the diversity and strength of America
while representing a broad range of backgrounds, experiences, and
professions. Commissioners are responsible for recommending a group of
candidates to the President for selection as White House Fellows, a
prestigious program for leadership and public service that provides
young Americans experience working at the highest levels of the federal
government.

**Brian K. Bond,** **to be a Member of the** **President’s Commission on
White House Fellowships**

Brian K. Bond (he/him), a native of rural Missouri, joined PFLAG
National in 2019 as CEO. Under his leadership, the organization has
experienced unprecedented growth at a time when LGBTQ+ people and those
who love them are under assault in every corner of the country. With an
extensive background in constituency outreach and coalition
bridge-building, Bond has also strengthened PFLAG National’s deep
commitment to ensuring PFLAG is a place where every family belongs.

Prior to joining PFLAG National, Bond served in the Obama-Biden
Administration as Deputy Director of the White House Office of Public
Engagement and primary liaison for the LGBTQ community. He also served
in the Environmental Protection Agency as Associate Administrator for
Public Engagement and Environmental Education.

**Nicole Isaac,** **to be a Member of the** **President’s Commission on
White House Fellowships**

Nicole Isaac presently serves as Vice President of Global Public Policy
at Cisco, where she leads a team of experts that drive Cisco’s policy
agenda around the world. Prior to joining Cisco, Isaac spent more than
20 years in the government, corporate, legal, and nonprofit sectors,
including at Google, Meta, and LinkedIn. She also founded a social
impact accelerator called Code the Streets to increase resources to
inner city communities through technology. Isaac previously served in
the White House as Special Assistant to the President for Legislative
Affairs and as Deputy Director of Legislative Affairs for the Vice
President. She spent over five years on Capitol Hill where she worked as
Floor Counsel in the U.S. Senate and Legislative Counsel in the U.S.
House of Representatives. She also served on the U.S. Commission for the
Preservation of America’s Heritage Abroad.

Isaac is a lawyer and previously clerked at the Constitutional Court of
South Africa for the Deputy Chief Justice. She worked at a law firm in
Paris and with an NGO in Geneva. She has a Juris Doctor degree from the
University of Pennsylvania Law School and a Master of Arts in
International Affairs from Columbia University. She completed a Master
of Studies (LLM equivalent) in International Human Rights Law at Oxford
University in the United Kingdom. She received her Bachelor of Arts
degree from Brown University. Isaac was born and raised in the Bronx,
New York and is of Jamaican and Costa Rican descent. She resides in
Washington, D.C. with her family.

**<u>President’s Council on Sports, Fitness, & Nutrition</u>**

The President’s Council on Sports, Fitness, & Nutrition is a federal
advisory committee that aims to promote healthy, accessible eating and
physical activity for all Americans, regardless of background or
ability. President Biden issued Executive Order 14048, renewing the
President’s Council on Sports, Fitness, & Nutrition, which allows for
continued promotion of the National Youth Sports Strategy and provides
for the work of the Council to include a focus on expanding national
awareness of the importance of mental health as it pertains to physical
fitness and nutrition.

**Amy Robbins Towers,** **to be a Member of the** **President’s Council
on Sports, Fitness, & Nutrition**

After fourteen years of success in banking and finance, Amy Robbins
Towers turned her full-time attention to raising her four sons and
leading The Nduna Foundation. She established The Nduna Foundation in
2007 to advance innovative interventions in childhood nutrition,
community redevelopment, human rights, women’s roles in peace and
security, and conservation, primarily in conflict countries.

Robbins Towers has travelled extensively throughout Africa and the
Middle East researching and developing partnerships to reduce acute
malnutrition in children, create sustainable community-based solutions
to protect fundamental human rights and support civilians caught in
conflict, and assist in the redevelopment of conflict-affected areas.
She has also focused her energy and efforts on the fitness and
well-being of her four sons, who while grown now, made her a very busy
hockey Mom for many years. Robbins Towers is a respected leader and
advocate for sports and athletics programs from youth levels through
NCAA Division 1, knowing firsthand the importance fitness and sports
have played in her own sons’ lives.

Robbins Towers has been recognized for her transformative leadership by
UNICEF USA with the Audrey Hepburn Humanitarian Award, the Dikembe
Mutombo Foundation with the Caring for Congo Award, the Elizabeth Glazer
Pediatric AIDS Foundation with their Humanitarian of the Year, and The
International Center for Research on Women with their Champions of
Change Global Citizen award.

**<u>U.S. Commission of Fine Arts</u>**

The U.S. Commission of Fine Arts was established by Congress in 1910 as
a permanent body to advise the federal government on matters pertaining
to the arts and national symbols, and to guide the architectural
development of Washington, D.C. The Commission is composed of seven
members with expertise in the arts. Appointed by the President,
Commission members serve four-year terms.

**Bruce Redman Becker, to be a Member of the** **U.S. Commission of Fine
Arts**

Bruce Redman Becker, FAIA, LEED AP is President of Becker + Becker, an
integrated sustainable architecture and development firm in Westport,
Connecticut. Becker designs and builds projects that have a social and
environmental value. His work includes conversion of the Bank of America
tower in Hartford into a 285-unit LEED Platinum mixed-income community;
the 500-unit, 360 State and Elm City Market in New Haven; adaptive
re-use of the Wauregan Hotel in Norwich, Connecticut to create
affordable housing; and redevelopment of the historic Octagon on
Roosevelt Island in Manhattan into a mixed-income community. Becker
completed the certified historic rehabilitation of the Pirelli building
in New Haven, originally designed by Marcel Breuer, into Hotel Marcel, a
165-room boutique hotel that uses no fossil fuels and is the first
Passive House certified hotel in the United States. Becker also designed
the headquarters for the Cary Institute of Ecosystem Studies in
Millbrook, New York.

Becker is a Fellow of the American Institute of Architects, a LEED
Accredited Professional, and a Certified Passive House Designer. He also
wrote the chapter in the AIA Handbook of Professional Practice on
Architect as Developer. Becker was a founding director of the CT
Renewable Energy and Efficiency Business Association and is the former
Chair of the Harlem School of the Arts. He is Chairman of the Electric
Vehicle Club of Connecticut and a founding director of Land Use Atlas,
Inc. Becker received a Bachelor of Arts from Amherst College in American
Studies and Fine Arts, and an MBA and Master of Architecture degree from
Yale.

**William J. Lenihan, to be a Member of the** **U.S. Commission of Fine
Arts**

Bill Lenihan, AIA, NCARB is a Principal and Partner of Tevebaugh
Architecture based in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and Wilmington,
Delaware. The firm’s areas of practice include civic, cultural,
academic, healthcare, corporate, and industrial project types. His
extensive experience in architecture, planning, and design includes
prominent institutional, cultural, and historic preservation projects
including Ammi B. Young-designed 1855 historic Custom House, Schwartz
Center for the Arts, State of Delaware Family Courthouses and Family
Justice Centers, University of Delaware College of Health Sciences,
Brandywine Conversancy Museum of Art, First Troop Philadelphia City
Cavalry, and several regional Transit Centers on the Northeast Corridor.

Lenihan holds a Bachelor of Architecture and Master of Architecture
degrees from Norwich University and holds professional registrations in
more than ten states. He is a founding member of the Rodney Square
Conservancy, member of the Friends of Furness Railroad District and
Washington Memorial Bridge Partnership, former Board Member and
Sustainability Chair of the Delaware chapter of the American Institute
of Architects, and former member of the Del-Mar-Va Council of Boy Scouts
of America.

\###
