---
date: '2024-05-31'
modified_time: 2024-05-31 12:27:18-04:00
published_time: 2024-05-31 13:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/05/31/readout-of-second-convening-on-climate-risk-macroeconomic-forecasts/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of Second Convening on Climate-Risk Macroeconomic\_Forecasts"
---
 
Earlier this week, the Council of Economic Advisers and the Office of
Management and Budget, with the Climate Policy Office, Office of Clean
Energy Innovation and Implementation, and Office of Science and
Technology Policy, the Department of Energy, and the National Oceanic
and Atmospheric Administration, hosted a convening on
Climate-Energy-Macroeconomic Forecasting with economists and financial
sector experts from the private sector and government.

One central fact informed this convening: climate change is an
“[emerging and increasing threat to the global financial system and
economy](https://home.treasury.gov/policy-issues/climate-change),” and
the required policy responses to address it will have first-order
implications for the macroeconomy. Recent events—such as stress in the
home insurance markets or how drought conditions are affecting ocean
shipping—underscore that the effects of climate change on economic
outcomes are not far-off concerns, but ones that Americans are already
facing. Meanwhile, the transformation of energy systems, transportation,
and industry continue to gain pace, spurring innovations and investment
across the economy and enhancing the resiliency of our communities.
Climate risks and climate policies are already influencing macroeconomic
dynamics, and are becoming increasingly salient for the macroeconomic
forecasting community.

The Biden-Harris Administration understands that the accuracy and
credibility of economic forecasts provide the foundation from which we
develop policy. This is why President Biden signed an [Executive Order
on Climate-Related Financial
Risk](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/05/20/executive-order-on-climate-related-financial-risk/),
which—among other things—instructs CEA, OMB, and Treasury to develop
methods to account for the physical and transition risks of climate
change in the economic assumptions and long-term budget outlook of the
President’s Budget. For three years, CEA and OMB have been leading a
government-wide technical working group to develop methods to account
for climate risks in macroeconomic forecasting, as laid out in a
[series](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/04/CEA_OMB_Climate_Macro_WP_2022.pdf)
of
[white](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/03/CEA-OMB-White-Paper.pdf)
[papers](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/04/FY25-CEA-OMB-Climate-Macro-White-Paper-Final-2.pdf)
and
[other](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/12/Memo_Tools-for-Near-Term-Climate-Risk-Management.pdf)
[materials](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/cea/written-materials/2023/12/22/a-progress-report-on-climate-energy-macro-modeling/).
As the Administration works to enhance capacities, particularly with
respect to forecasting transition risks as well as opportunities,
sharing knowledge about and fostering alignment on climate-macroeconomic
forecasting methodologies with the private sector will advance the
knowledge base and facilitate improvements in our collective analytical
capacity.

Transparency and collaboration sit at the core of scientific inquiry.
This is especially true as economists turn to assessing climate risks
and benefits of the clean energy transition in the macroeconomic
outlook. The convening’s discussion focused on a set of questions this
community is grappling with. These included: how to leverage
climate-related data to better understand the current economic
environment and the macroeconomic outlook; where there are data gaps,
and how these could be filled; how to address uncertainty and tail
weather events; how to forecast changes to sectoral investments, the
demand for capital, and the effects of those investments on the
structural macroeconomic outlook; and how to account for the upsides of
building a clean energy economy, including on climate resiliency,
efficiency, productivity, and the macroeconomic outlook more generally.
The convening built upon a similar one hosted by the White House in
[February
2023](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/02/23/readout-of-convening-on-blue-chip-climate-risk-macroeconomic-forecasts/),
reinforcing our partnerships with the broader macroeconomic forecasting
community.

Over the coming months, we look forward to engaging further with our
community partners to advance our capabilities, inform the efforts of
the interagency working group, and incorporate climate issues into
broader economic forecasting and decision-making.

\###
