---
date: '2024-05-16'
modified_time: 2024-05-16 18:12:48-04:00
published_time: 2024-05-16 18:12:47-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/05/16/what-they-are-saying-labor-business-and-elected-leaders-praise-president-bidens-actions-to-protect-american-workers-and-businesses-from-chinas-unfair-trade-practices/
tags: statements-releases
title: "WHAT THEY ARE SAYING: Labor, Business, and Elected Leaders Praise President\_\
  Biden\u2019s Actions to Protect American Workers and Businesses from China\u2019\
  s Unfair Trade\_Practices"
---
 
  
  

This week, President Biden took action to protect investments in America
by increasing tariffs on $18 billion of imports from China. This action
will combat China’s unfair trade practices and support the President’s
historic investments in American steel and aluminum, semiconductors,
electric vehicles, batteries, solar, and other strategic sectors.
President Biden’s actions are pro-worker, pro-union, and pro-investment,
which is why they were praised by a range of labor, business,
environmental, and elected leaders.

*Leaders across the country are celebrating the announcement. Here’s
what they’re saying:*

**<u>Union and Labor Leaders</u>**

**President Liz Shuler, AFL-CIO:** “The AFL-CIO strongly supports
President Biden’s announcement that, after a thorough investigation, he
will maintain or increase tariffs on a range of unfairly traded products
from China. This will help to revitalize our domestic manufacturing
capacity, create new jobs, and advance our national and economic
security. President Biden once again is standing up for American
workers.”
\[[Statement](https://aflcio.org/press/releases/afl-cio-president-president-bidens-actions-chinas-unfair-trade-practices),
5/14/24\]

**International President David McCall, United Steelworkers Union
(USW):** “The USW is the largest industrial union in North America, and
flawed Chinese trade policies have had an outsized negative impact on
our members,”

“Now, the Biden administration’s work to strengthen relief measures
shows we’re not backing down. Instead, we’re backing up our domestic
producers and workers.”

From the CHIPS and Science Act to the Inflation Reduction Act, from new
approaches on outbound investment to today’s tariff announcements and
more, President Biden is addressing trade through an integrated set of
solutions,”

“And moving forward, we know this administration will continue to show
this same grit and ingenuity in standing up for workers, including the
investigation it initiated last month into China’s transportation,
logistics and maritime policies.”
\[[Statement](https://www.usw.org/news/media-center/releases/2024/usw-applauds-bidens-strategic-redesign-of-china-tariffs),
5/14/24\]

**International Vice President Roxanne Brown, United Steelworkers Union
(USW):** “The key to President Biden’s success in building a
worker-centered trade policy is his multi-pronged approach. His
administration has been diligently confronting foreign unfair trade
using established trade tools to stand up to the unfair and
anticompetitive policies of trading partners like China. But just as
importantly, President Biden has been strategically using investments
here at home to reignite and renew America’s manufacturing capacity.”
\[[Statement](https://www.usw.org/news/media-center/releases/2024/usw-applauds-bidens-strategic-redesign-of-china-tariffs),
5/14/24\]

**International President Brian Bryant, International Association of
Machinists and Aerospace Workers (IAM):** “As International President of
one of the largest manufacturing unions in North America, I’ve seen
first-hand the negative impacts of the Chinese government’s
anti-competitive trade practices, such as dumping heavily subsidized
imports,” said Bryant. “The IAM has been a leader over the years in
sounding the alarm on unfair trade practices that cost North American
jobs. Tariffs aren’t an end goal but a very important tool to end trade
practices that kill good American jobs and drive down American pay. They
are coupled with President Biden’s historic investment policies, which
continue to build and grow an economy that benefits working families
nationwide.

“The Biden Administration has been willing to challenge the disastrous
effects of Chinese economic policies on American manufacturing and trade
and enact policies to make a difference.

“We thank President Biden for standing up for union workers and creating
policies that build and grow an economy that works in the best interest
of working families,” added Bryant. “We will continue to work with the
Biden Administration and Ambassador Tai on rewriting trade rules to
benefit working people.”
\[[Statement](https://www.goiam.org/news/iam-international-president-brian-bryant-joins-president-biden-to-announce-increased-u-s-tariffs-on-chinese-goods-in-bold-move-to-protect-u-s-jobs/),
5/14/24\]

**International President Kenneth W. Cooper, International Brotherhood
of Electrical Workers (IBEW):** “I am proud to have joined President
Biden today as he announced new protections for American workers against
unfair Chinese trade practices. For too long, U.S. manufacturers,
especially those in advanced electrical and energy technologies, have
been undercut by cheap Chinese exports.

“This move will help level the playing field for both businesses and
workers, further boosting domestic manufacturing.

“The Biden-Harris administration has made rebuilding America’s
manufacturing sector a priority, and we’re already seeing results as
high-tech semiconductor and EV battery plants set up shop in communities
across the United States.

“President Biden’s decision means more investments and jobs in America’s
manufacturing and clean energy sectors. The men and women of the IBEW
are committed to working with his administration to restore America’s
role as the world’s manufacturing and technological leader.”
\[[Statement](https://www.ibew.org/media-center/Articles/24Daily/2404/240514_Crackdown),
5/14/24\]

**United Auto Workers (UAW):** “The UAW applauds todays decisive action
from the White House on ensuring that the transition. We have warned for
many months that, left to the forces of corporate greed, the EV future
was threatened by a race to the bottom, from China to Mexico to right
here in the United States. Making sure that major corporations have to
pay a price for pitting worker against worker, pushing wages lower and
lower, is a key part of a pro-worker trade policy. America’s
autoworkers, our families, and working-class communities across this
country want a trade policy that puts workers firs. Today’s announcement
is a major step in the right direction”
\[[Statement](https://x.com/davidshepardson/status/1790359793938362381),
5/14/24\]

**Teamsters:** “#Teamsters applaud @POTUS and @USTradeRep @AmbassadorTai
for taking action to maintain and expand the current Section 301 tariffs
on Chinese imports. Raising tariffs on electric vehicles and other
products from China is essential to protecting American workers from
China’s unfair trade policies.”
\[[Statement](https://x.com/Teamsters/status/1790391118296707398),
5/14/24\]

**<u>Business and Industry Leaders</u>**

**President Scott Paul, Alliance for American Manufacturing:**
“Enhancing the Section 301 tariffs to counter China’s unfair trade
practices is absolutely the right thing to do for America’s future. We
commend Ambassador Tai and the Biden administration for defending
American workers and industries.

“AAM supported the original initiation of the Section 301 tariffs and
urged this administration to both extend and enhance the relief
measures. Decades of unfair trade by the People’s Republic of China have
devastated American communities and weakened our economic security.”

“We are particularly pleased to see enhanced Section 301 tariffs on
steel, aluminum, electric vehicles, semiconductors, the battery supply
chain, and certain essential PPE products. We have called the
introduction of Chinese EVs into the the United States a potential
‘extinction-level event’ for our vital auto sector. While the nature of
China’s unfair trade practices shifts from time to time, the goals are
always clear: to disrupt global norms, weaken American economic
security, and seek growth at the expense of others.

“The Section 301 tariffs, together with investments in industry and
infrastructure, and Buy America domestic preferences, form the framework
of an effective 21st century industrial policy for America. We look
forward to working with the Biden administration and Congress to build
on these achievements.”
\[[Statement](https://www.americanmanufacturing.org/press-release/biden-is-right-to-raise-tariffs-on-chinese-imports/)\]

**President and CEO Rich Nolan, The National Mining Association (NMA):**
“

“From minerals to batteries, China already has a decades long global
start, and its dominance of the world’s supply chains shows it. It’s
encouraging to see the Biden administration take bold action to counter
the forceful hold China has on these markets, but this action must be
coupled with support for, and approval of, U.S. mining projects. We need
more domestic sources that can responsibly feed our manufacturing supply
chains. Without them, we’re simply shifting our import reliance from
China to adversarial foreign sources, action that may derisk our supply
chains, but doesn’t truly strengthen them.”
\[[Statement](https://www.bing.com/search?q=WASHINGTON%2C+D.C.+%E2%80%93+The+National+Mining+Association+(NMA)+today+issued+the+following+comments+from+Rich+Nolan%2C+NMA+president+and+CEO%2C+on+today%E2%80%99s+announcement+from+the+Biden+administration+concerning+tariff+increases+on+an+array+of+Chinese+imports%3A+%E2%80%9CFrom+minerals+to+batteries%2C+China+already+has+a+decades+long+global+start%2C+and+its+dominance+of+the+world%E2%80%99s+supply+chains+shows+it.+It%E2%80%99s+encouraging+to+see+the+Biden+administration+take+bold+action+to+counter+the+forceful+hold+China+has+on+these+markets%2C+but+this+action+must+be+coupled+with+support+for%2C+and+approval+of%2C+U.S.+mining+projects.+We+need+more+domestic+sources+that+can+responsibly+feed+our+manufacturing+supply+chains.+Without+them%2C+we%E2%80%99re+simply+shifting+our+import+reliance+from+China+to+adversarial+foreign+sources%2C+action+that+may+derisk+our+supply+chains%2C+but+doesn%E2%80%99t+truly+strengthen+them.%E2%80%9D&PC=U531&cvid=4bf9c53804254ebb8020a95394758d94&FORM=ANNTA0),
5/14/24\]

**President and CEO Abigail Ross Hopper, Solar Energy Industries
Association (SEIA):** “SEIA commends the Biden administration for taking
action to support the continued build out of U.S. solar and storage
manufacturing. We are evaluating the announcement to determine its full
impact, but it’s clear that several of these decisions will help improve
the business conditions for American manufacturers.

“The Administration was thoughtful to include a tariff exclusion process
for key machinery that companies need to manufacture solar components in
the United States. A temporary tariff exclusion will help reduce
production costs and incentivize increased investment in domestic
manufacturing.

“We are also pleased that the Administration will delay the tariff
increase on batteries for energy storage systems. This move provides a
runway for continued production and deployment of energy storage to meet
growing demand for electricity.

“We need an American-made solar and storage economy, and the Inflation
Reduction Act (IRA) has brought us closer to that vision than any policy
in history. Today’s announcement from the Biden administration will
continue this progress, and SEIA is committed to finding additional
solutions and equitable trade policy to establish the United States as
the new global leader for clean energy manufacturing.”
\[[Statement](https://www.seia.org/news/seia-statement-biden-administrations-action-support-american-clean-energy-manufacturing),
5/14/24\]

**Executive Director Mike Carr, Solar Energy Manufacturers for America
(SEMA) Coalition:** “The Administration made the right decision to
strengthen protections for solar components we seek to build in the U.S.
While no one action can unwind the years of a concerted effort to
dominate this industry, including in manufacturing equipment and heavily
subsidized production by Chinese-headquartered firms in Southeast Asia,
we are encouraged by this indication of the Biden administration’s
commitment to use all the tools at their disposal in a targeted and
strategic way.” \[[Statement](https://semacoalition.org/), 5/14/24\]

**Executive Director Eric Axel, American Medical Manufacturers
Association (AMMA):** “The White House understands that domestic
manufacturers face an onslaught of underpriced, subpar Chinese imports.
By sidelining high-quality American manufacturers, cheap Chinese imports
threaten the safety of our healthcare workers and patients. \[…\] The
White House’s bold proclamation is significant for everyone who favors
fortifying domestic PPE and medical product manufacturing. AMMA
anticipates the measures announced by President Biden having a
transformative impact, invigorating the domestic manufacturing base and
safeguarding our nation’s health and security.”
\[[Statement](https://www.ammaunited.org/2024/president-biden-bolsters-domestic-manufacturing-of-personal-protective-equipment-with-new-tariffs-on-china/),
5/14/24\]

**President and CEO Jesse Gary, Century Aluminum:** “Today’s actions are
critical for the U.S. aluminum industry. President Biden’s decisive
leadership on Sec. 301 tariffs and to invest in the resurgence of U.S.
manufacturing, shows this Administration’s commitment to U.S. primary
aluminum production.

“Thanks to the President’s leadership, Century is planning to build a
new greenfield facility that will double existing domestic capacity. The
smelter would not only be the first new American aluminum smelter in 45
years, but also one of the ‘greenest’ smelters in the world, powered
with cutting edge technology and renewable energy. This Administration
announced a $500 million grant which will help to facilitate this
investment in our future.”
\[[Statement](https://centuryaluminum.com/investors/press-releases/press-release-details/2024/Century-Aluminum-Company-Applauds-Biden-Administration-Decision-To-Triple-Chinese-Aluminum-Tariffs/default.aspx),
5/14/24\]

**MP Materials:** “This action will help level the playing field for
domestic producers, giving U.S. industry the time it needs to scale and
develop in a manner that aligns with America’s vital national interest.
In the long term, these measures will foster greater balance and
resiliency across the global supply chain, ultimately benefiting
producers and consumers worldwide. By enhancing our domestic
capabilities, we not only secure our economic further but also
contribute to a more balanced and robust global market.”
\[[Statement](https://x.com/MPMaterials/status/1790372574599495814),
5/14/24\]

**President and CEO John Bozzella, Alliance for Automotive Innovation**:
“Automakers embrace *fair* competition. We’re not shrinking from it, but
China’s EV overcapacity and subsidy issue is real. The competitiveness
of the auto industry in the U.S. will be harmed if heavily subsidized
Chinese EVs can be sold at below-market prices to U.S. consumers.”

“It’s appropriate for the White House to be looking at tools to prevent
the U.S. from becoming a dumping ground for subsidized Chinese EVs. We
can’t let China’s EV overcapacity problem turn into a U.S. auto industry
problem.”
\[[Statement](https://www.autosinnovate.org/posts/press-release/statement-on-biden-administration-chinese-electric-vehicle-announcement),
5/14/24\]

**<u>Climate and Economic Leaders</u>**

**Executive Director Jason Walsh, BlueGreen Alliance:** “President
Biden’s industrial policies have targeted federal investment to the
sectors that are vital to the economic and energy security of the United
States, manufacturing workers and communities, and the fate of the
planet. The tariff actions announced by the president are a forceful
complement to these investments in American manufacturing and a strong
statement that the United States will not engage in a race to the bottom
when it comes to clean technologies.

“We should be building our clean energy future here at home. We applaud
the action President Biden has taken today.”
\[[Statement](https://www.bluegreenalliance.org/resources/bluegreen-alliance-responds-to-biden-tariff-announcement/),
5/14/24\]

**Chairman Zach Mottl, Coalition for a Prosperous America (CPA):** “On
behalf of our members that are committed to producing in the U.S. and
creating high-paying American jobs, we applaud President Biden and
Ambassador Tai for taking this important action to increase Section 301
China tariffs in these critical industries.”

“There is overwhelming evidence, including from the USITC, that proves
what CPA has been saying for more than a decade: tariffs are a critical
reshoring tool to stimulate domestic production, avoid future inflation,
and to reduce dependence on foreign supply chains. Importantly, the
Biden administration’s action to increase the China tariffs is a strong
signal that we are in a new bipartisan era of utilizing tariffs and
industrial policy to promote fair and balanced trade, and to protect
American workers and manufacturers from China’s illegal, predatory trade
activity.”
\[[Statement](https://prosperousamerica.org/cpa-applauds-biden-administrations-increase-of-section-301-china-tariffs/),
5/14/24\]

**Executive Director Ben Jealous, Sierra Club:** “We cannot trade a
dependency on foreign oil for a clean energy future reliant upon China.
We must continue to invest and build our clean energy future in America.
The Sierra Club welcomes the Biden administration’s increase in tariffs
on imports from China, which pushes back on its monopolization of clean
energy goods, benefitting American workers.”

“\[…\] These climate-forward tariffs make clear to China and allies that
countries that make critical products and enforce environmental and
labor standards will have a competitive advantage. We look forward to
continuing our work with President Biden and Congress to use the full
range of trade tools available to \[…\] unlock the full potential of the
Inflation Reduction Act. The swift transition to clean energy will be
manufactured in the
U.S.”.\[[Statement](https://www.sierraclub.org/press-releases/2024/05/biden-administration-announces-tariffs-chinese-clean-energy-products-boost),
5/14/24\]

**Senior fellow Ryan Mulholland, Center for American Progress (CAP):**
“These tariffs are an appropriate and necessary step to combat China’s
unfair trade practices and ensure that American workers remain at the
forefront of the clean energy transition. In the auto sector, the
protection provided by these increased tariffs must not be an excuse for
firms to slow their deployment of high-quality and affordable EVs. The
domestic manufacturers that benefit from tariff protection should use
this opportunity to boost their production of EVs, continue to invest in
new U.S.-based production, offer their employees better compensation,
and allow workers to fairly and freely join unions.”
\[[Statement](https://www.americanprogress.org/press/statement-new-tariffs-will-help-u-s-continue-leading-on-clean-energy-transition/),
5/14/24\]

**Roosevelt Institute:** “Today, the US government announced 100 percent
tariffs on electric vehicles imported from China, along with other
restrictions on inputs into clean energy supply chains. This action
offers critical support to the historic public and private sector
decarbonization investments under the Inflation Reduction Act (IRA),
CHIPS and Science Act, and Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, ensuring they
will not be threatened by imports that violate fair trade laws and will
be viable in the future”
\[[Statement](https://rooseveltinstitute.org/2024/05/14/section-301-tariffs-on-electric-vehicles/),
5/14/24\]

**<u>Congressional Leaders</u>**

**Majority Leader Chuck Schumer, New York**: “The Chinese Communist
Party has shown they will stop at nothing to steal our intellectual
property and undermine the American economy, including providing deep
subsidies to their companies. Because the CCP does not compete fairly,
imposing new tariffs is a necessary step towards addressing the unfair
imbalance of China’s trade relationship with the United States. This
action is vital to protect American workers, American manufacturers,
American innovation, and our national security.”
\[[Statement](https://www.democrats.senate.gov/newsroom/press-releases/majority-leader-schumer-statement-on-new-biden-administration-tariffs-on-chinese-evs),
5/14/24\]

**Senator Bob Casey, Pennsylvania:** “When we hold trade cheats
accountable, we put American workers in the best position to outcompete
anyone in the world. I have urged presidents of both parties to maintain
and increase Section 301 tariffs to level the playing field for
Pennsylvania workers and protect our jobs and our national security.”
\[[Statement](https://www.casey.senate.gov/news/releases/following-casey-push-biden-administration-to-boost-tariffs-on-china-to-protect-pa-workers-jobs-manufacturers),
5/14/2024\]

**Senator Debbie Stabenow, Michigan:** “I was pleased to join the
President today for his announcement of new trade measures to protect
American manufacturers and workers. Chinese electric vehicles are
heavily subsidized by the Chinese government. With a level playing
field, our auto industry and our workers can compete with anyone and
win. But that means competing with companies, not countries. Michigan
has seen the impacts of China’s unfair trade practices on our jobs. I
appreciate the President’s leadership and strong support for our shared
goal of ensuring that the electric vehicle transition is led by American
workers.”
\[[Tweet](https://www.stabenow.senate.gov/news/senator-stabenow-statement-on-president-bidens-announcement-to-increase-tariffs-on-china),
5/14/2024\]

**Senator Gary Peters, Michigan:** “I support the Administration’s
decision to raise tariffs on China across key manufacturing sectors.
They will help keep our auto industry competitive, support good-paying,
union jobs here at home, and protect our economic & national security.

A flood of heavily subsidized electric vehicles from China would
undercut Michigan’s automakers and workers. Today’s announcement is a
necessary response to combat the Chinese government’s unfair trade
practices that endanger the future of our auto industry. It will help
level the playing field, keep our auto industry competitive, and support
good-paying, union jobs here at home by ensuring that American workers
and companies are leading the way in both gas-powered and electric
vehicle manufacturing. This action will also help offset the harmful
impact of Chinese steel and aluminum subsidies that have affected jobs
and businesses in manufacturing hubs like Michigan.

This effort will also help address national security vulnerabilities
posed by Chinese electric vehicles and protect Americans’ personal data
and our roadways from Chinese Communist Party-backed companies. I
welcome this important step, and I look forward to continue working with
the Administration on additional steps we must take to combat the
economic and national security threats posed by Chinese electric
vehicles.”
\[[Statement](https://www.peters.senate.gov/newsroom/press-releases/senator-peters-welcomes-biden-administration-move-to-raise-tariffs-on-chinese-electric-vehicles),
5/14/24\]

**Senator Ron Wyden, Oregon:** “I’m pleased President Biden is taking
steps to fight back against China’s predatory trade practices in key
sectors, as well as continuing to combat China’s IP theft and forced
technology transfer. There’s no question that the Chinese government
intends to monopolize the production of solar panels, batteries, and
other climate-related technologies that are crucial to the future of
manufacturing and good-paying jobs in Oregon and nationwide. However,
tariffs are only one pressure point, and I hope to work with the
administration to further support U.S. workers in these industries and
others facing China’s unfair trade practices.”
\[[Statement](https://www.finance.senate.gov/chairmans-news/wyden-statement-on-biden-action-to-stand-up-to-chinas-trade-cheating),
5/14/2024\]

**Senator Elizabeth Warren, Massachusetts:** “President Biden and USTR
@AmbassdaorTai are standing up for American workers and against unfair
trade policies from China. With strong trade enforcement + big
investments in our economy, we’re bringing back American manufacturing
jobs.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenWarren/status/1790422987448942954),
5/14/2024\]

**Senator Chris Murphy, Connecticut:** “Good news. China is a global
trade cheater. They shouldn’t get free access to our markets. Decades of
manufacturing flight to low cost countries decimated our economy and our
families. Joe Biden is making the hard choices to rebuild American
manufacturing.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/ChrisMurphyCT/status/1790421665916006407),
5/14/2024\]

“Europe is prepared to sit back and let China control the supply chain
for every major technology we will rely upon to run our 2050 economy.
Bad idea.”
\[[Tweet](https://x.com/ChrisMurphyCT/status/1790441323427688612),
5/14/24\]

**Congressman Dan Kildee, Michigan:** “We must do more to combat unfair
trade practices that hurt American workers, including by the Chinese
Communist Party. I applaud President Biden’s decisive actions that will
benefit Michigan workers.

China continues to rely on unfair trade practices, including forced
labor, intellectual property theft, and state-sponsored subsidies for
critical industries. By flooding the U.S. and global markets with goods,
China is seeking to control the market in critical industries like
semiconductors, electric vehicles, steel and aluminum and solar panels.
China’s unfair trade practices are driving down wages and contributing
to a race to the bottom for American workers. These tariffs announced by
President Biden will help to boost American manufacturing and protect
American jobs.

I will continue to work with President Biden to support a pro-worker
trade agenda that ensures we make things in America, not in China.”
\[[Statement,](https://dankildee.house.gov/media/press-releases/statement-congressman-kildee-new-china-tariffs)
5/14/2024\]

**Congresswoman Debbie Dingell, Michigan:** “I strongly support @POTUS
decision to increase tariffs to strengthen domestic automotive
manufacturing, protect American jobs, and safeguard our global
leadership in the auto industry. We aren’t competing on a level playing
field, and we have seen the impact of unfair trade practices in the
past. The Chinese Community Party’s use of aggressive subsidies doesn’t
protect living wages, fair labor practices, occupational safety
standards for workers, or environmental standards. We must compete in a
fair marketplace. I look forward to continuing to work closely with the
Administration and my colleagues in Congress to protect American jobs
and competitiveness, and our economic and national security.”
\[[Statement](https://debbiedingell.house.gov/news/documentsingle.aspx?DocumentID=5095),
5/14/24\]

**Congresswoman Elissa Slotkin, Michigan:** “As a former CIA officer and
Pentagon official, I’ve been sounding the alarm on the threats Chinese
vehicles pose to our national and economic security, and the tariffs
announced today are an important step forward. The production of these
vehicles and products is subsidized by the Chinese Communist Party.
Positioning them to flood our markets and kill American jobs in our own
manufacturing sector. Today’s announcement targets China’s long standing
unfair trade practices, and begins the process of pushing pack on their
flooding markets with subsidized goods that undercut good old fashioned
American competition.”
\[[Tweet,](https://x.com/RepSlotkin/status/1790473231952195808)
5/14/2024\]

**Congresswoman Haley Stevens, Michigan:** “When trade is fair, American
workers succeed. Today, surrounded by the men and women of the
steelworkers, autoworkers, and so many other labor unions – President
Biden did what he does best, lead for the American people. I was honored
to join the President on behalf of Michigan’s 11<sup>th</sup> District
at the White House as he signed a new executive order to protect
American manufacturing from the Chinese Communist Party’s unfair,
uncompetitive policies. For too long, the Chinese Communist Party has
deployed unfair manufacturing and trade practices to undercut American
labor, threatening our economic and national security. I strongly
support the tariffs announced on Chinese electric vehicles, chips
components, and critical minerals. I commend President Biden for taking
action – no one else has done more for American manufacturing and the
domestic auto industry. Thank you, Mr. President for ensuring that the
future is built in America by union workers.”
\[[Statement,](https://x.com/RepHaleyStevens/status/1790453092825063699)
5/14/2024\]

**Congressman Chris Deluzio, Pennsylvania:** “Protecting Made-In-America
manufacturing is a no-brainer: it’s growing strong jobs at home and
standing strong against globilization’s gutting of American industry.
Great to see @POTUS take action against Communist China and put workers
at the center of his trade policy.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepDeluzio/status/1790499831384883629),
5/14/24\]

**Congressman Raja Krishnamoorthi, Illinois:** “President Biden’s
targeted actions on behalf of American workers, farmers, and businesses
will protect our economy from the brazenly predatory and unfair trade
practices of the Chinese Community Party. This new action was developed
through a thorough and thoughtful review conducted in coordination with
our allies under Ambassador Tai’s leadership. Working in tandem with our
ongoing investments in our infrastructure, research, and workers, it
will bolster American manufacturing and competitiveness. For decades,
the CCP has engaged in anticompetitive trade practices, flooding global
markets with artificially cheap products to wipe out competition while
stealing technology and other intellectual property. As the CCP seeks to
expand these predatory tactics, President Biden’s policies will help to
level the playing field. I look forward to continuing to collaborate
with the Administration to help American workers and businesses prove
yet again that they can out-compete anyone.”
\[[Statement,](https://x.com/CmteOnCCPDems/status/1790441214392647728)
5/14/2024\]

**Congresswoman Frank Pallone, New Jersey:** “In order to bolster our
domestic manufacturing and support American jobs, the federal government
needs to take action to curb the import of cheap Chinese goods. I
support the Biden Administration’s efforts to respond to China’s
aggressive trade policies.”
\[[Tweet](https://x.com/FrankPallone/status/1789433712821543415),
5/11/2024\]

  

*\###*
