---
date: '2024-05-23'
modified_time: 2024-05-23 15:05:31-04:00
published_time: 2024-05-23 05:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/05/23/fact-sheet-kenya-state-visit-to-the-united-states/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Kenya State Visit to the United\_States"
---
 
Today, President Biden welcomes President Ruto of Kenya for a State
Visit and Dinner to celebrate and deepen ties between our two nations. 
This visit marks 60 years of official U.S.-Kenya partnership.  This
partnership is founded on shared values, deep cooperation, and a common
vision for the future.  The two leaders’ agenda showcases how our ties
deliver tangible benefits to the people of our nations in areas
including Democracy, Human Rights, and Governance; Health Partnerships;
People-to-People Ties; Shared Climate Solutions; Trade and Investment;
Debt, Development, and Sustainable Finance; Digital, Critical, and
Emerging Technology Cooperation; and Peace and Security Cooperation.

**Democracy, Governance, and Human Rights**

Our countries are bonded by our shared democratic values and mutual
commitment to advancing human rights and strengthening political
institutions.  This historic State Visit is about the Kenyan and
American people and their hopes for an inclusive, sustainable, and
prosperous future for all.  Our countries endeavor to guard against the
erosion of political checks and balances, counter misinformation and
disinformation, mitigate hate-fueled violence targeting members of
vulnerable communities, and tackle corruption by building transparent
and accountable governance systems.  The State Visit highlights new
areas of cooperation to safeguard rights and freedoms in the face of
rising authoritarianism, expand avenues for dialogue, and elevate our
shared global commitment to protecting democracy.

-   **Delivering Democracy:**  The United States has programed nearly
    $40 million for democracy, human rights, and governance programming
    in Kenya, including through [Presidential Initiative for Democratic
    Renewal](https://gcc02.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.whitehouse.gov%2Fbriefing-room%2Fstatements-releases%2F2021%2F12%2F09%2Ffact-sheet-announcing-the-presidential-initiative-for-democratic-renewal%2F&data=05%7C02%7CGignilliatAH%40state.gov%7C702b619408ea423d3dac08dc69471346%7C66cf50745afe48d1a691a12b2121f44b%7C0%7C0%7C638501001705486461%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C0%7C%7C%7C&sdata=35DGFWTk29g%2BgCmbdsRQfuIgjk7bPkiflH34W1HgTuA%3D&reserved=0)
    programs that defend democratic elections and political processes,
    increase women’s political participation and leadership, counter
    Gender Based Violence, and advance digital democracy.  Additional
    support for activities in Kenya under the Presidential Initiative
    for Democratic Renewal build on Kenya’s important work as a member
    of the 14-country [Global
    Partnership](https://www.state.gov/2023-roadmap-for-the-global-partnership-for-action-on-gender-based-online-harassment-and-abuse/)
    for Action on Gender-Based Online Harassment and Abuse, which is
    advancing global policies to address online safety for women and
    girls, including targeted violence against women political and
    public figures. 

<!-- -->

-   **Supporting Independent Civil Society:**  President Ruto executed
    on May 9 the legal instruments required to operationalize the 2013
    Public Benefits Organization Act, which institutionalizes
    groundbreaking, global best practices for civil society
    protections.  The United States announced $700,000 in new assistance
    to support this effort in addition to the $2.7 million the United
    States is providing to improve civil society engagement in and
    oversight of governance processes.  The U.S. Agency for
    International Development (USAID) also announced an additional $1.3
    million youth empowerment program aimed at strengthening political
    engagement at the subnational level and $600,000 to advance
    disability inclusion.

<!-- -->

-   **Bringing Transparency to Government: ** The United States and
    Kenya commit to strengthening the Open Government Partnership (OGP),
    which Kenya co-leads and the United States co-founded, including
    through robustly fulfilling our open government commitments at
    home.  USAID Administrator Power plans to represent the United
    States at the OGP event on the margins of the UN General Assembly
    High Level Week in September.  This event gathers world leaders for
    an opportunity to showcase the powerful global coalition on open
    government and democracy and to consider opportunities for further
    collaboration. 

<!-- -->

-   **Promoting Human Rights:**  The United States and Kenya affirm
    their commitment to upholding the human rights of all.  Together
    they stand with people around the world defending their rights
    against the forces of autocracy.  Kenya and the United States commit
    to bilateral dialogues that reinforce commitments to human rights,
    as well as a series of security and human rights technical
    engagements with counterparts in the Kenyan military, police, and
    Ministry of Foreign Affairs aimed at strengthening collaboration on
    security sector governance, atrocity prevention, and Women, Peace
    and Security in Kenya and regionally.

<!-- -->

-   **Combatting Corruption:**  The Administration intends to provide
    $500,000 for a new Fiscal Integrity Program to make county budget
    processes more transparent and inclusive and increase citizen
    engagement, and $500,000 to broaden the reach and effectiveness of
    anti-corruption advocacy by empowering civil society actors to
    create and disseminate multimedia content that engages citizens and
    mobilizes action against corruption.  To support the Government of
    Kenya to combat corruption, the Administration is providing $250,000
    through the Global Accountability Program, and $300,000 to support
    Kenya’s proposed Whistleblower Protection law to strengthen Kenya’s
    anti-corruption legal architecture.  In addition, USAID has provided
    $2.7 million to support the improved enforcement of policy and laws
    that deal with fraud, waste, and abuse in the delivery of public
    services to Kenyan citizens. 

<!-- -->

-   **Gathering Anti-Corruption Professionals:**  With support from the
    U.S. Department of State’s Bureau of International Narcotics and Law
    Enforcement Affairs, the UN Office on Drugs and Crime and the East
    African Association of Anti-Corruption Authorities convened a
    regional conference from May 20-23, 2024, in Nairobi, Kenya,
    gathering anti-corruption practitioners and policymakers from
    countries participating in the East Africa Anti-Corruption
    Platform. 

<!-- -->

-   **Strengthening Police Reform Efforts:**  Building on a longstanding
    partnership to further police capacity building and reform efforts,
    the United States and Kenya announced a new $7 million partnership
    to advance and strengthen the modernization and professionalization
    of Kenya’s National Police Service, with a focus on staff and
    training development.

<!-- -->

-   **Reducing Prison Overcrowding and Improving Detention
    Conditions:**  The United States and Kenya are committed to further
    advancing Kenyan-led efforts to improve the oversight of and
    conditions within Kenya’s prison service.  The United States
    announced a new $2.2 million initiative to provide training,
    mentoring, and technical assistance to implement priority reforms.

<!-- -->

-   **Combatting Transnational Organized Crime and Supporting Criminal
    Justice Sector Reform:**  Recognizing the regional role Kenya plays
    in combating transnational organized crime, the United States
    intends to provide $4.9 million in new funding for Kenya and other
    East African countries to improve cooperation and coordination in
    combating criminal networks and holding criminals accountable. 
    Funding also supports capacity building and reform efforts within
    the Kenyan police and justice sectors.

<!-- -->

-   **Supporting Investigative Journalism:**  The United States seeks to
    amplify Kenya’s leadership in building Africa’s digital resilience
    by supporting linkages between well-known international
    investigative organizations and select Kenyan NGOs, media outlets,
    and citizen journalists to build up Nairobi as a regional hub for
    exposing issues in the public interest.  This support also helps
    journalists in their pursuit of public information.  Pursuing these
    efforts in Kenya – a regional media and technology leader –
    positively impacts East Africa and the broader continent,
    particularly as Kenyan recipients connect with counterparts in the
    region.

<!-- -->

-   **Strengthening Kenya’s Frameworks for Free and Fair Elections:** 
    Working with Congress, the Administration intends to provide $1.5
    million in new technical assistance to support Kenya’s electoral
    legal framework reform process aimed at strengthening the election
    commission, political parties, and campaign finance.  This funding
    aims to improve public awareness raising and advocacy around the
    reforms, laying the groundwork for a more inclusive, transparent and
    peaceful 2027 election.  This support complements Kenya’s amendment
    to the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission Act, which
    passed the National Assembly on May 3 and is now with the Senate.

**Health Partnership:  Securing Our Collective Health**

Decades of collaboration between the United States and Kenya in the
health sector have resulted in tremendous improvements in health not
only for millions of our citizens, but also for the broader global
community.  This cooperation is vital to developing medical innovations,
preventing the emergence of future global pandemics, and ensuring that
effective treatments are widely available.  Our governments are working
in lockstep with the private sector, which is developing new
manufacturing capacity in Kenya that can serve Africa and the world. 
The efforts showcased during the State Visit build upon these successes
to ensure a healthier, more prosperous future for all.

-   **Continuing the Fight against HIV/AIDS:**  The United States and
    Kenya are developing a “Sustainability Roadmap” to integrate HIV
    service delivery into primary health care, ensuring quality and
    impact are retained.  With more than $7 billion in support from the
    President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR) spanning two
    decades, Kenya has successfully responded to the HIV epidemic and
    strives to end HIV as a public health threat in Kenya by 2027. 
    These efforts improve holistic health services for the 1.3 million
    Kenyans currently receiving antiretroviral therapy and millions more
    benefiting from HIV prevention programs, while allowing for greater
    domestic resources to be put toward the HIV response, allowing
    PEFPAR support to decrease over time.

<!-- -->

-   **Partnering for Global Health Security:**  Kenya and the United
    States announced a formal proclamation between the U.S. Center for
    Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and Government of Kenya for
    sharing information, identifying best practices, and defining steps
    toward the development and full launch of the Kenyan National Public
    Health Institute.  As a gateway to East Africa through Port Mombasa,
    Kenya’s capacity to prevent, detect, and respond to infectious
    disease threats is critical.  To support our health partnership,
    Kenya and the United States plan to develop and launch a customized
    Public Health Emergency Management training program to enhance
    health security across all 47 counties in Kenya. 

<!-- -->

-   **Reducing the Impacts of Malaria:**  Through the President’s
    Malaria Initiative (PMI), the United States contributed $33.5
    million in 2023 to fight malaria in Kenya, providing vital financial
    and technical assistance to the Government of Kenya.  The United
    States supports resilient health systems to deliver care by training
    health workers, strengthening supply chains, improving data
    monitoring, and reinforcing national health policies and
    guidelines.  These investments have contributed to a 50% reduction
    in malaria prevalence over the last decade.  In support the
    Government of Kenya’s localization goals, PMI is expanding its
    procurement of pharmaceutical supplies from Kenyan manufacturers and
    intends to procure up to an additional 5 million malaria treatments
    and 475,000 preventive treatment doses from Kenyan producers in
    2024.

<!-- -->

-   **Growing Health Manufacturing:**  Kenya committed to working with
    lawmakers to advance the Kenyan Pharmacy and Poisons Board (PPB)
    Act, a necessary step to boost local manufacturing of medical
    products and expand private American investment in the sector. 
    Securing and diversifying global supply chains by promoting local
    and regional manufacturing of health products is a priority of the
    United States.  The implementation of the PPB Act has the potential
    to increase manufacturing capacity in Kenya and Africa to ensure the
    availability of life-saving medicines, diagnostic tests, and
    devices.  This should also mitigate the impact of global supply
    chain shocks, which were so evident during the COVID-19 pandemic. 
    To further these goals, USAID provided $2.3 million in support to
    Revital Healthcare to develop rapid diagnostic tests for HIV,
    malaria, hepatitis B and C, dengue, and pregnancy, and to build a
    manufacturing plant capable of producing 240 million tests per
    year.  Additionally, USAID and the Kenyan Ministry of Health are
    partnering to equip all neonatal clinics with Revital-made
    continuous positive airway pressure machines for babies requiring
    respiratory support.

<!-- -->

-   **Partnering with the Private Sector in Healthcare:**  The U.S.
    International Development Finance Corporation (DFC) is investing in
    Kenya’s vibrant private sector by making a $10 million direct loan
    to Kenyan company Hewa Tele, which provides an affordable and
    regular supply of medical oxygen to healthcare facilities in Africa,
    and two rounds of equity investment totaling $4 million to Kasha
    Global, a Kenya-based e-commerce company that provides personal
    care, health care, and beauty products to low-income women in Kenya
    and Rwanda.

<!-- -->

-   **Expanding Joint Research:**  Kenya and the United States
    recommitted to our long-standing partnership through a Memorandum of
    Understanding (MoU) between the CDC and the Kenyan Medical Research
    Institute (KEMRI) to support Kenya’s Applied Science Hub, building
    on 45 years of research partnership on malaria, HIV, tuberculosis,
    vaccine-preventable diseases, maternal and child health, emerging
    infectious diseases, and COVID-19.  The research in the Applied
    Sciences Hub aims to expand surveillance, answer critical public
    health questions, and introduce novel diagnostic methods, including
    advanced molecular and serology-based methods, and training in
    public health laboratory core competencies.  This year, the United
    States provided an estimated $12.9 million to support research
    efforts by KEMRI through CDC, the National Institutes of Health
    (NIH), and the Department of Defense.  In FY 2023 NIH supported over
    250 grants to U.S. organizations that collaborated with Kenyan
    organizations, covering a wide range of relevant biomedical research
    topics, and approximately 90 of these collaborations include
    researchers at KEMRI.

<!-- -->

-   **Meeting Kenya’s Digital Health Goals:**  The United States
    announced over $31 million to advance Kenya’s efforts to set up a
    digital superhighway to enable a holistic view of health care
    delivery.  The United States has worked closely with the Kenyan
    Ministry of Health to build and deploy digital health solutions to
    support disease programs and improve the ability to prevent, detect,
    and respond to public health threats.  This includes $4 million
    through USAID Power Africa’s Health Electrification and
    Telecommunications Alliance to support solar power solutions for
    health facilities and activities to strengthen community and
    facility information systems to improve patient care and expand
    access to emergency medical services for mothers and newborns. 
    Additionally, the NIH Harnessing Data Science for Health Discovery
    and Innovation in Africa (DS-I Africa) program focuses on
    facilitating the use of data science to impact health outcomes in
    Africa and supports a data hub and training and educational
    development programs in Kenya.

**People-to-People Ties:  Improving and Enriching Lives** 

The American and Kenyan people have deep ties that go far beyond the 60
years of official cooperation between our governments.  These
relationships – rooted in family, friendship, and community – improve
and enrich our lives.  They drive our cooperation, underpin our shared
values, and elevate our aspirations.  The benefits of these ties are
particularly evident in our cooperation in educating the next generation
of leaders, entrepreneurs, and visionaries.  The State Visit builds on
this fundamental strength, catalyzing stronger partnerships through a
series of groundbreaking education and exchange programs. 

-   **Strengthening Connections Between U.S. and Kenyan Educational
    Institutions: **

<!-- -->

-   *Kennedy-Mboya Partnerships:*** ** As the United States and Kenya
    celebrate 60 years of bilateral relations, and recalling the
    positive and enduring impact of the Kennedy-era student airlift, the
    newly announced Kennedy-Mboya Partnerships support a new scholarship
    program that promotes intellectual, academic, and innovative
    exchange.  The Administration intends to provide $3.3 million for a
    U.S. Department of State program for sixty Kenyan undergraduate
    students to study for a semester in the United States, with a focus
    on STEM.  This program supports the development and success of the
    next generation of Kenyan scientists, researchers, and engineers.

<!-- -->

-   *Partnership 2024*:  The Administration intends to provide $500,000
    for Partnership 2024 to support the development of Kenyan students,
    scientists, researchers, and engineers by encouraging U.S.
    universities to increase investment in relationships with Kenyan
    universities and research institutions.  Faculty and research
    collaboration are planned to bolster the program, supported by
    Fulbright Specialists to provide additional expertise.

<!-- -->

-   *EDTECH Africa:*  The Governments of Kenya and the United States, in
    collaboration with Microsoft, Mastercard’s Center for Inclusive
    Growth, Howard University, Spelman College, Clark Atlanta
    University, and Morehouse College announced the establishment of
    EDTECH Africa.  This initiative serves as an emerging technology
    bridge between Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs)
    and African scholars, aimed at cultivating educational exchanges in
    the ever-evolving landscape of emerging technology.  This initiative
    expands Mastercard’s existing investment of $6.5 million for the
    Atlanta University Center Consortium Data Science Initiative and $5
    million for Howard University’s Center for Applied Data Science and
    Analytics, actively involving African scholars with HBCU students
    and faculty in the journey toward greater proficiency as data
    scientists.  Microsoft will invest an additional $500,000 to support
    HBCU and Kenyan students engaged in research at the Microsoft Africa
    Research Institute (MARI) in Nairobi, Kenya, complementing its
    recent contribution of $350,000 for the Atlanta University Center
    Consortium Data Science Initiative to establish a network of data
    science faculty across HBCUs.  USAID intends to invest $850,000 to
    facilitate this partnership between HBCUs and Kenyan universities.

<!-- -->

-   *National Science Foundation (NSF) International Activities*:  NSF
    has committed to offering workshops, planning grants, or supplements
    to U.S. universities to strengthen connections between U.S. and
    Kenyan universities, jointly identify research foci, and facilitate
    collaboration in research, education, and workforce development.

<!-- -->

-   *Employment Pathways for Youth*:  USAID announced $6.5 million to
    support a partnership between Edison State Community College in
    Piqua, Ohio, and Kenya’s United States International University of
    Africa to strengthen up to 40 Kenyan technical vocational education
    and training institutions in the high-growth sectors of information
    and communications technology (ICT) and manufacturing of
    pharmaceuticals and textiles.

<!-- -->

-   *Framework for Cooperation:*** ** The United States and Kenya signed
    a [Framework for
    Cooperation](https://www.usaid.gov/news-information/press-releases/may-21-2024-united-states-announces-new-partnership-kenya-support-stem-education)
    to support higher education partnerships for STEM education.  The
    Framework describes U.S. and Kenyan priorities and is accompanied by
    a commitment from Microsoft, Micron, Mastercard, and several U.S.
    and Kenyan universities expressing their support for STEM
    education.  The Framework fosters higher education partnerships and
    commitments to partner private sector stakeholders, Kenyan
    institutions, and U.S. institutions to build mutual capacity in
    information and computer technology, microchip manufacturing, and
    other STEM-related education and career opportunities.

<!-- -->

-   **Collaboration with the National Museums of Kenya: ** The
    Smithsonian Institution announced a $150,000 project funded by the
    U.S. Department of State to assess opportunities, challenges, and
    possible enhancements to support the National Museums of Kenya
    continued evolution as a leader in cultural and natural heritage
    preservation.  Smithsonian officials plan to work collaboratively to
    identify possible areas for enhancement and growth, including
    facilities, collections care and conservation, curation, digital
    infrastructure, exhibitions, and research programs.

<!-- -->

-   **Supporting Primary Education:**  USAID intends to provide $24.5
    million for the Kenya Primary Literacy Program (KPLP), a new
    nationwide early grade literacy activity implemented in close
    partnership with Kenya’s Ministry of Education.  KPLP programs are
    delivered in English and Kiswahili to all public primary schools and
    select private schools.  KPLP expands new innovations to address
    literacy needs of grade 1-3 learners while building more inclusive,
    accountable, and resilient education institutions and systems. 

<!-- -->

-   **Bolstering Kenya’s Creative Workforce:**  The United States and
    Kenya announced new initiatives and programs to strengthen the
    creative economies between our two countries.  In partnership with
    the Recording Academy, the University of Southern California School
    of Cinematic Arts, and other leading private sector and civil
    society institutions, the United States envisions new programs to
    promote collaboration, build capacity, and bolster professional
    creative industry ecosystems.  We seek to assist emerging leaders in
    television, film, and music to learn new skills, build networks, and
    participate in international festivals.  The two countries also
    promote cultural heritage and tourism by supporting the preservation
    of the archaeological site of Takwa through the prestigious U.S.
    Ambassadors Fund for Cultural Preservation.

<!-- -->

-   **Expanding Emerging Technology Training Program: ** The Johns
    Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies intends to launch a
    new fellowship program this fall bringing together high-achieving
    mid-career government officials from select African countries.  This
    program equips the next generation of leaders across the continent
    with the policy and technical expertise needed to help their
    governments translate the digital transformations underway –
    including in AI and other emerging technologies – into broadly
    shared growth for their societies.  In recognition of the technology
    sector leadership demonstrated by both the Kenyan public and private
    sector, Kenya is the first country to be added the inaugural
    fellowship cohort.

<!-- -->

-   **Increasing Diplomatic Exchange:**  The United States Foreign
    Service Institute and the Kenyan Foreign Service Academy plan
    consultations with the intention of enhancing cooperation and
    further exchanges between the two institutions.  Sharing a mutual
    interest in promoting best practices for the training of diplomats,
    the United States and Kenya commit to exploring Kenya’s
    participation in an emerging international community of practice for
    diplomatic training. 

<!-- -->

-   **Strengthening U.S.-Kenya Research Ties with Kenya’s Health
    Workforce:**  The Academic Model Providing Access to Healthcare
    (AMPATH) Kenya is a partnership between Moi University, Moi Teaching
    and Referral Hospital, and the AMPATH Consortium of global
    universities around the world led by Indiana University.  With $20.7
    million in annual funding from USAID, these partners are reaching
    120,000 Kenyans on life saving antiretroviral treatment.  Through
    AMPATH, the universities commit to continuing the education of
    healthcare providers, medical students, residents, and community
    health workers.

<!-- -->

-   **Increasing Consular Capacity:**  The U.S. Embassy in Nairobi
    expanded the number of staff working in the Consular Section to
    expedite the review and issuance of visas for travel of Kenyan
    citizens to the United States.  The Consular Section issues visas
    for students, tourists, businesspeople, and workers, and also
    processes visas to reunite families.  At the same time, our Consular
    Section provides services to American citizens living in or visiting
    Kenya.  These people-to-people links are the bedrock of our
    bilateral relationship.

**Shared Climate Solutions:  Fostering Growth and Resilience**  

President Biden and President Ruto have a shared climate vision as not
just an existential challenge of our time, but as the most significant
economic opportunity of the 21<sup>st</sup> century.  It is a
generational opportunity for Africa to become a leader in the global
clean energy economy.  Closer partnership is generating greater advances
in clean energy supply chains, mobilizing climate-related investment,
sustainable agriculture, adaptation, and resilience.

-   **Launching the U.S.-Kenya Climate and Clean Energy Industrial
    Partnership:**  During the State Visit, we announced the launch of a
    U.S.-Kenya Climate and Clean Energy Industrial Partnership to
    elevate climate action and green industrialization as a critical
    pillar of our bilateral relationship.  We also signaled our intent
    to implement a new green growth framework throughout Africa. 
    Through this partnership, the United States and Kenya prioritize
    cooperation across the three, mutually-supportive areas of clean
    energy deployment, clean energy supply chains, and green
    industrialization.  To support these activities under the
    Partnership, the United States and Kenya intend to work with
    international financial institutions and multilateral trust funds to
    identify mechanisms to mobilize investment for clean energy
    manufacturing and services.  The two sides intend to strategically
    leverage concessional finance and risk mitigation tools at the
    multilateral development banks and climate funds to lower the cost
    of capital for clean energy deployment and supply chains in Kenya
    and the region, including a portion of the $568 million in catalytic
    finance that the United States provided to the Clean Technology Fund
    in 2023.

<!-- -->

-   **Humanitarian Disaster Response: ** To date in FY 2024, USAID has
    provided $42 million in emergency humanitarian assistance to Kenya. 
    Including this assistance, USAID’s Bureau of Humanitarian Assistance
    has provided nearly $1.3 billion over the last 12 years to respond
    to humanitarian needs in Kenya, including those caused by natural
    disasters.

<!-- -->

-   **Connecting Homes, Businesses, and Institutions to Reliable Clean
    Energy: ** USAID, through the Power Africa Initiative, announced
    $300,000 to support women’s entrepreneurship and gender-equity in
    the Kenyan energy sector and committed $3.6 million in to support
    the accelerated connection of more homes, businesses, and
    institutions in Kenya to cleaner electricity as part of its
    Empowering East and Central Africa program.  In addition, Power
    Africa inter-agency partners, including the U.S. Department of
    Energy, DFC, and USTDA, announced key deliverables that, in
    partnership with the Government of Kenya, advance Power Africa’s
    mandate to alleviate energy poverty.

<!-- -->

-   **Investing in Hydropower**:  Virunga Power, a U.S. company and
    Power Africa partner, announced a pipeline of six run-of-river
    hydropower projects in advanced stages of development in Kenya. 
    With a total expected investment of $100 million, the hydropower
    projects will be constructed in sequence over the next five years
    and are expected to provide 31 megawatts of clean, baseload
    renewable energy.  The power generated should improve the stability
    of Kenya Power’s distribution network in Western and Central Kenya
    and enable new connectivity and industrial and economic growth in
    rural areas of the country.

<!-- -->

-   **Deepening Government-to-Government Cooperation on Clean Energy and
    Carbon Management: ** The U.S. Department of Energy and Kenyan
    Ministry of Energy announced their intent to sign a MOU in June in
    Nairobi intended to enhance bilateral collaboration and partnership
    in the development of clean energy, carbon management technologies,
    and decarbonization strategies.  This MOU establishes a framework to
    facilitate the sharing of technical knowledge, advice, skills, and
    expertise across numerous sectors – including geothermal energy
    development and industrial decarbonization.  The framework forms the
    basis of sustainable and climate-adaptive economic growth across our
    countries and regions.

<!-- -->

-   **Investing in Electric Vehicle Startups:**  DFC announced a $10
    million direct loan to BasiGo, an electric vehicle company that
    leases and sells electric buses to public transport bus operators in
    Kenya.  The loan facilitates procurement of buses and batteries for
    sale in Kenya and is a key e-mobility project supporting Kenya’s
    ambitious climate goals.  Additionally, DFC announced a $10 million
    loan to Kenyan company Roam Electric that supports its assembly and
    production of electric motorcycles on-site in its Nairobi production
    facility.  The U.S. Department of State also announced $100,000 for
    technical assistance to support accelerating the transition to
    zero-emissions vehicles in Kenya, including through policy
    development and implementation, capacity building and peer-to-peer
    learning, and workforce development.

<!-- -->

-   **Growing Kenya’s E-mobility Sector:**  DFC recently announced a $10
    million loan to Mogo Auto Kenya to support affordable financing for
    cars, motorcycle taxis, and logbook loans in Kenya.  The transaction
    supports President Ruto’s Africa Green Industrialization Initiative,
    building upon DFC’s longstanding support for the e-mobility economy
    in Kenya.

<!-- -->

-   **Launching the MCC-Kenya Urban Mobility and Growth Threshold
    Program:**  The United States and Kenya are scheduled to launch a
    seminal partnership to deliver a more connected, mobile, and green
    Nairobi.  The $60 million grant from the Millennium Challenge
    Corporation funds a four-year program focusing on the transportation
    needs of underserved groups, safer options for women and
    pedestrians, and climate-friendly public transportation, generating
    benefits for over four million residents and increasing urban
    mobility while decreasing transportation sector emissions.

<!-- -->

-   **Increasing Plastic Recycling:**  USAID recently expanded its
    support for the Kenyan recycling company T3, now totaling over $2
    million.  T3 plans to leverage nearly $13 million in additional
    private investment to expand plastic collection and acquire a
    “bottle-to-bottle” processing line, the first in Kenya.  The line
    enables production of food grade recycled PET resin and is projected
    to more than double the amount of PET plastic recycled in Kenya. 
    The T3 initiative is projected to create 200 jobs and indirect
    economic opportunities for approximately 8,000 collectors, mainly
    women and youth.

<!-- -->

-   **Supporting Community-Led Conservation: ** The Southern Kenya
    Conservation Project (SOK) and the Kenya Rhino Range Expansion
    Project (KRRE) are building partnerships for the conservation of the
    southern Kenya landscape and the expansion of rhino range in Kenya. 
    The partnerships aim to raise significant funds to increase wildlife
    numbers, restore landscapes, open up wildlife corridors, and spur
    economic opportunity. USAID is providing $300,000 to develop
    landscape and fundraising strategies to help Kenya leverage funds
    and access financing for both projects.  SOK and KRRE will help
    Kenya build climate resilience and achieve their 30×30 goal of
    conserving 30 percent of their land and oceans by 2030.

<!-- -->

-   **Promoting Wildlife Conservation:**  To assist the Government of
    Kenya with combatting wildlife trafficking and other nature crimes,
    the U.S. Department of State and the U.S. Department of the Interior
    have collaborated to station a permanent U.S. Fish and Wildlife
    Service law enforcement attaché at the U.S. Embassy in Nairobi,
    strengthening the longstanding wildlife conservation partnership
    between our two countries.  This position was designed to assist
    with law enforcement coordination and consultation, facilitation of
    intelligence sharing and investigative support, and access to U.S.
    Fish and Wildlife Service forensic and technical support resources. 

<!-- -->

-   **Amplifying Scientific Partnership:**  The United States welcomes
    Kenya’s leadership in hosting the upcoming Smithsonian’s ForestGEO
    international analytical gathering in Nanyuki, Kenya, co-hosted by
    the Mpala Research Centre, the National Museums of Kenya, and the
    Karatina University, from June 29 to July 13, 2024.  The Smithsonian
    ForestGEO network studies the diversity and dynamics of forests, the
    forest carbon cycle, and the impact of climate and global change on
    forest biodiversity and function.

<!-- -->

-   **Improving Weather Forecasting:**  DFC recently announced a $1
    million loan to Ignitia AB, a tropical weather forecasting service
    designed for smallholder farmers in Kenya, Ghana, and the Democratic
    Republic of the Congo.  This loan was part of the Africa Small
    Business Catalyst program in partnership with the U.S. African
    Development Foundation (USADF) and USAID.

<!-- -->

-   **Fostering High-Integrity Carbon Markets:**  The United States and
    Kenya established a partnership to support Kenya’s efforts to be a
    global leader in delivering high-integrity and high-quality carbon
    credits.  In support of this partnership, the U.S. State Department
    and USAID announced $1 million in targeted technical assistance and
    analytical capabilities to support development of Kenya’s framework
    for high-integrity carbon markets and to strengthen Kenya’s ability
    to engage in related transactions.

<!-- -->

-   **Investing in Carbon Capture: ** The U.S. Department of Energy,
    through Pacific Northwest National Laboratory, announced a one-year
    project to accelerate the commercial readiness of carbon dioxide
    (CO2) removal approaches that leverage the reactive CO2
    mineralization storage potential in Kenya’s volcanic-hosted
    geothermal systems.  The project aims to develop and implement a
    characterization protocol to evaluate potential strategic basalt CO2
    storage sites through a knowledge exchange process; parametrize a
    static geologic model to facilitate evaluation of CO2 injection and
    mineralization storage strategies; and establish the institutional
    foundation for sustained Kenyan collaboration within the
    international mineralization storage research and development
    community.

<!-- -->

-   **Announcing New Scientific Collaboration: ** The Smithsonian
    Institution announced a new research fellowship program in Kenya,
    funded by education entrepreneurs Dennis and Connie Keller, to build
    capacity, train, and exchange knowledge.  Alongside Smithsonian
    scientists, Kenyan Shared Health Science Fellows study impacts of
    changes in climate, pollution, stressors, and toxicants on
    wellbeing, health, and physiology in humans, plants, animals, and
    our shared environment.  Over the next four years, the program aims
    to provide six fellows with two years of training at the Mpala
    Research Centre and spend time at the Smithsonian Institution in
    Washington, D.C.

<!-- -->

-   **Deepening U.S.-Africa Nuclear Industry Cooperation: ** The U.S.
    Department of Energy, in partnership with Kenya and Ghana, plans to
    host the second installment of the U.S.-Africa Nuclear Energy Summit
    (USANES) on Industry Readiness in Nairobi, Kenya in August 2024. 
    Recognizing the historic relationship between the United States and
    Kenya, USANES 2024 envisions U.S. and African policymakers,
    technical experts, and industry leaders convening in Nairobi to
    address critical issues impacting industry readiness and the future
    of nuclear energy on the African continent.  The Summit comprises
    educational workshops, stakeholder engagement sessions, and
    multilateral discussions on topics from financing and workforce
    development to supply chain preparedness.  The Summit aims to
    underscore the opportunities nuclear power presents to reach Net
    Zero by 2050 and further strengthen the robust ties between the
    United States and Kenya. 

**Trade and Investment:  Generating Prosperity **  

The trade and investment partnership between the United States and Kenya
is driving our shared prosperity, generating well-paying jobs, expanding
economic growth, protecting the rights of workers, and spurring new
innovations with global benefits.  This partnership spans the full
spectrum of large to small businesses.  Both countries are partnering
with the private sector to further strengthen these economic ties,
including in the critical areas of clean energy technology, agriculture,
and affordable housing.

-   **Advancing a U.S.-Kenya Strategic Trade and Investment
    Partnership:**  The U.S. and Kenya have made significant progress on
    the [U.S.-Kenya Strategic Trade and Investment Partnership
    (STIP)](https://ustr.gov/about-us/policy-offices/press-office/press-releases/2024/may/united-states-and-kenya-joint-statement-after-fifth-round-us-kenya-strategic-trade-and-investment). 
    We are negotiating high standard commitments in a range of areas
    with a view to increase investment; promote sustainable and
    inclusive economic growth; benefit workers, consumers, and
    businesses (including micro-, small-, and medium-sized enterprises);
    and support African regional economic integration.  The U.S. Trade
    Representative and Kenya’s Cabinet Secretary for Investment, Trade,
    and Industry committed in May to work towards concluding an
    agreement by the end of 2024.

<!-- -->

-   **Signing a U.S.-Kenya Commercial and Investment Partnership: ** The
    United States and Kenya intend to sign a Commercial and Investment
    Partnership, affirming a mutual commitment to deepening commercial
    and investment ties between our two countries.  This Partnership,
    with robust participation from the private sector, aims to promote a
    strong business-enabling environment and to facilitate trade and
    investment opportunities in Kenya focused on key priority sectors
    including infrastructure, agriculture, and the digital economy.

<!-- -->

-   **Opening a DFC Nairobi Office: ** DFC announced it plans to open an
    office in Nairobi, playing a key role in driving DFC’s pipeline
    development across key sectors in Kenya such as agriculture, health,
    e-mobility, energy, infrastructure, and financial inclusion,
    including on-lending to small and medium sized enterprises and women
    entrepreneurs.

<!-- -->

-   **Establishing A Framework Agreement with Coca-Cola:**  In Atlanta,
    President Ruto visited Coca-Cola HQ to sign a framework agreement
    focused on policy engagement, mango juice production, and plastic
    recycling.  His visit also celebrated 70 years of Coca-Cola in
    Kenya, along with the company’s partnership on drought response and
    clean water, use of its supply chains to distribute COVID vaccines
    and protective equipment, and a new $175 million investment in its
    economy.

<!-- -->

-   **Reaping Benefits from AGOA:**  Vivo Fashion, a leading Kenyan
    women’s fashion brand in East Africa, announced the opening of its
    first retail storefront in the United States in Atlanta, Georgia. 
    Vivo Fashion is part of a growing Kenyan apparel industry that
    benefits from market access to the United States under AGOA, the
    largest single component of U.S. trade with Kenya.

<!-- -->

-   **Improving Food Security through Jobs:**  USAID is investing in the
    future with $15 million for new activities designed to reduce
    poverty and malnutrition and address global food security by
    expanding investment opportunities.  By creating over 50,000 new
    jobs, catalyzing over $200 million in new agricultural sales, and
    mobilizing over $200 million in new finance for agriculture, these
    activities improve food security and nutrition outcomes for over
    800,000 Kenyans.

<!-- -->

-   **Investing in Kenyan Businesses:**

<!-- -->

-   *Acorn Green Housing Project:*  DFC recently approved an
    approximately $180 million loan to Acorn, a real estate developer
    that constructs and operates affordable student housing in Kenya. 
    The DFC investment is expected to catalyze an additional $360
    million in local Kenyan investment in one of the largest green
    housing portfolios in Africa.

<!-- -->

-   *Pezesha Africa Limited:* ** **DFC announced a $500,000 technical
    assistance grant to build a proprietary credit scoring model to
    improve Kenyan company Pezesha Africa Limited’s underwriting
    capabilities for small and medium sized enterprise clients.  Pezesha
    is a capital enablement lending infrastructure platform focused on
    increasing access to finance for retail trade micro, small, and
    medium-sized enterprises by integrating financial services into
    existing supply chain verticals.

<!-- -->

-   *Keep IT Cool:*  DFC recently announced a $500,000 loan to
    Kenyan-based Keep IT Cool, a business-to-business aggregation and
    sales platform to connect fish farmers with buyers utilizing cold
    chain technology.  This loan was part of the Africa Small Business
    Catalyst program in partnership with USADF and USAID.

<!-- -->

-   *African Fertilizer and Agribusiness Partnership, Inc.:*** ** DFC
    recently announced a $10 million second loss guarantee to African
    Fertilizer and Agribusiness Partnership, Inc. to expand the sale of
    fertilizer on credit to small and medium-sized enterprise agri-input
    suppliers in Kenya, Zambia, and Ghana.  The guaranty deal is
    expected to enable up to $360 million in additional fertilizer sales
    in these three countries over the next three years, furthering
    regional food security and agricultural production.

<!-- -->

-   *Kentegra Biotechnology:*** ** DFC recently announced a $10 million
    loan to Kentegra Biotechnology in Kenya to support the construction
    of a new facility to scale up its production capacity of pale
    refined pyrethrum extract, a key ingredient in organic pesticides. 
    DFC’s loan provides women farmers with more predictable income,
    higher prices than alternative crop options, and training to
    implement best farming practices and financial planning tools to
    fully benefit from the increased incomes resulting from pyrethrum
    cultivation.  USTDA previously announced a grant of $660,000 for a
    feasibility study supporting the development of this facility, which
    can facilitate Kenya’s ability to respond to international demand
    for safer and environmentally friendlier insecticides. 

**Debt, Development, and Sustainable Finance**

President Biden and President Ruto recognize that mounting debt burdens
put critical investments in countries’ sustainable development and
ability to address global challenges like the clean energy transition
out of reach.  Countries should not have to make the difficult choice
between paying back creditors and investing in their people, economy,
and future.  

-   **Launching theNairobi-Washington Vision:**  The United States and
    Kenya are launching the *Nairobi-Washington Vision* as a call to
    action to the international community to bring together all its
    tools to support countries with high ambition with respect to
    investments in their own development and addressing global
    challenges that are too often constrained by high debt burdens.  It
    calls on international financial institutions to provide coordinated
    packages of support, creditor countries to provide forms of debt
    relief and/or new budget-support flows, multilateral development
    banks and development finance institutions to facilitate private
    sector financing on better terms and crowd in private investment,
    and creditors to provide more transparent and sustainable lending. 
    Together we call to the international community to come together
    around these elements to support high-ambition countries with
    high-ambition financial support.

<!-- -->

-   **Expanding Support to Developing Countries through the
    International Financial Institutions**:  To make this vision a
    reality, the United States is stepping up support to international
    financial institutions.  Through efforts to evolve the multilateral
    development banks, the United States has worked with Kenya and other
    shareholders to secure reforms to unlock over $250 billion in new
    lending at these institutions.  The United States intends to make
    available in the coming weeks lending of up to $21 billion to the
    International Monetary Fund’s (IMF) Poverty Reduction and Growth
    Trust to support the poorest countries, and has made available this
    week $250 million through the World Bank’s International Development
    Association (IDA) Crisis Response Window to support crisis response
    in the world’s poorest countries.  President Biden has asked
    Congress for funding in the FY 2025 budget that would enable $36
    billion in new lending at the World Bank that, together with
    contributions from international partners, could provide an
    additional $100 billion boost to World Bank financing capacity over
    time.  Both Kenya and the United States stand in support of an
    ambitious policy and financing package for the replenishment of the
    World Bank’s International Development Association. 

<!-- -->

-   **Enhancing Support for Kenya from the International Financial
    Institutions:**  The United States has been a leading voice
    advocating for international financial institutions to step up
    support to Kenya to achieve development and climate ambitions.  With
    strong support from the United States, the IMF has doubled Kenya’s
    total program financing from $2.2 billion over three years to $4.4
    billion over four years.  Robust U.S. financial support has enabled
    World Bank financing to Kenya, including through increased funding
    at IDA and the World Bank’s International Bank for Reconstruction
    and Development.  The United States championed the expansion to
    select countries in Sub-Saharan Africa of the European Bank for
    Reconstruction (EBRD) and Development, where the United States is
    the largest shareholder.  The United States and Kenya worked
    together to successfully secure Kenya’s membership in the EBRD,
    which would be a boost to private sector development in the country
    once Kenya is granted recipient country status.

**Digital, Critical, and Emerging Technology Cooperation:  Delivering
Innovation, Progress, and Inclusion**  

The strong and growing innovation partnership between the United States
and Kenya is anchored in a shared commitment to investing in secure and
resilient technology supply chains, building a skilled and
technologically savvy workforce for the future, promoting the digital
economy and infrastructure, and enhancing our cybersecurity posture. 
Like the United States, Kenya is an engine for innovation.  Kenya’s
“Silicon Savannah” – a $1 billion technology hub – is home to more than
200 startups spanning a range of sectors, including clean energy,
microelectronics, financial technology, and e-commerce.  The United
States and Kenya share a commitment to ensuring that technology is
developed and deployed in a manner that advances transparency,
accountability, and human rights.  Together, our two countries are
committed to seizing the opportunities of a new digital era and driving
innovative approaches to solving some of the most consequential global
challenges.

-   **Building Secure and Resilient Supply Chains:**

<!-- -->

-   *Establishing a New Semiconductor and Technology Partnership to
    Support U.S. and Kenyan Industry, Consumers, and Workers:* ** **The
    United States views Kenya as a strong emergent partner in building
    resilient semiconductor supply chains, and we share a commitment to
    promoting high-quality jobs with strong labor standards for U.S. and
    Kenyan workers.  We aim to develop programmatic options to expand
    Kenya’s technical workforce and strengthen its regulatory
    environment to help attract further private investment and cultivate
    potential linkages to the U.S. semiconductor supply chain.  To this
    end, the U.S. State Department intends to partner with the
    Government of Kenya to explore opportunities to grow and diversify
    the global semiconductor ecosystem, specifically in the assembly,
    testing and packaging sector, under the International Technology
    Security and Innovation Fund, created by the CHIPS and Science Act
    of 2022.  Accordingly, the U.S. State Department is working with
    Congress to commit $1 million in foreign assistance to promote
    resilient semiconductors supply chains, build secure and trusted ICT
    ecosystems, and complement U.S. domestic manufacturing capacity. 
    This would make Kenya the first country in Africa to benefit from
    funding through the CHIPS and Science Act.

<!-- -->

-   *Partnership to Expand Semiconductor Supply Chain: * The United
    States is working with Congress to establish a partnership with
    Kenya to expand and diversify its emerging semiconductor industry in
    support of global supply chains.  Programs to expand Kenya’s
    technical workforce and streamline its regulatory environment would
    assist in attracting further private investment and build linkages
    to the U.S. semiconductor supply chain, specifically in the
    assembly, testing and packaging sectors.

<!-- -->

-   *Diversifying the Semiconductor Workforce*:  NSF intends to partner
    with Micron and Global Foundries to launch new funding opportunities
    to support investments in a diverse semiconductor workforce –
    including through investing in Historically Black Colleges and
    Universities, Hispanic Serving Institutions, Asian American Native
    American Pacific Islander Serving Institutions, and Tribal Colleges
    and Universities – to increase equitable access to STEM education in
    the United States and Kenya.  In addition, NSF has committed to
    offering workshops, planning grants, and providing supplements to
    U.S. universities for research and education to strengthen
    connections between U.S. and Kenyan universities.

<!-- -->

-   *Semiconductor Network and Welcome Corps at Work*:  The United
    States welcomes Micron’s launch of its MSI Semiconductor Network
    comprised of 16 leading universities across the United States, which
    seeks to feature collaboration between select MSIs with universities
    in Kenya to develop the next generation of the semiconductor
    workforce from underrepresented communities.  Through funding
    opportunities made available by NSF, GlobalFoundries, and Micron,
    MSIs – like those that are a part of Micron’s MSI network – can
    increase access to equitable education, address student programming,
    and strengthen infrastructure.  The company also announced a
    partnership with the International Rescue Committee and Talent
    Beyond Boundaries, through Welcome Corps at Work, to recruit
    individuals from refugee and immigrant communities across East
    Africa, including Kenya, to fill semiconductor technician and
    engineer roles.

<!-- -->

-   *Expanding Semiconductor Fabrication: * USTDA signed an MOU with the
    Government of Kenya and committed $1.3 million to support
    Semiconductor Technologies Limited’s expansion of its fabrication of
    legacy semiconductor chips at commercial scale.

<!-- -->

-   **Enhancing Cybersecurity Cooperation:**

<!-- -->

-   *Improving Cybersecurity*:  The United States, Kenya, and Google
    announced a joint effort to help launch a cybersecurity operations
    platform to improve the security of Kenya’s digital infrastructure,
    including an initial pilot project to enhance the resilience of
    Kenya’s e-government services.  Google also highlighted solutions
    for incident response and resilience-building measures.  Separately,
    Microsoft has agreed to create a new program to upskill Kenyans
    through free online certifications to help Kenya fortify its
    resilience against evolving cyber threats and support AI training
    and research.  In collaboration with the Government of Kenya and the
    University of Nairobi, Cisco launched in April 2024 its
    Cybersecurity Training and Experience Center in Kenya, the first on
    the African continent.  The Center is supporting the East African
    digital ecosystem, providing critical cybersecurity skills for
    future tech leaders. 

<!-- -->

-   *Kenya Regional Cyber Sector Collaboration Symposium:*  The United
    States and Kenya, in collaboration with the Software Engineering
    Institute, plan to hold a regional event later this year focused on
    enhancing information sharing between cybersecurity incident
    response teams to enable a more resilient cyberspace in East Africa.

<!-- -->

-   *Commercial Law Development Program Advisory Support:*  As a
    collaborative effort between the Departments of State and Commerce,
    the United States intends to provide policy and regulatory advisory
    services to support secure and trusted ICT ecosystems in Kenya. 
    Support includes policy and legislative reform advisory services,
    consultative meetings, capacity-building workshops, and
    multi-stakeholder engagement at international events. 

<!-- -->

-   **Promoting Digital Connectivity:**

<!-- -->

-   *Expanding Digital Connectivity:*** ** Google announced an
    investment in digital connectivity for Africa Connect, creating the
    first intercontinental fiber optic route in the southern hemisphere
    between Kenya and the Asia Pacific region.  The terrestrial portion
    of Africa Connect has regional breakout points which enable trusted
    connectivity from Kenya to Uganda, Rwanda, Democratic Republic of
    Congo, Zambia, Zimbabwe, South Africa and Google’s Africa Cloud
    Region. 

<!-- -->

-   *Fiber Backbone and Access Network Expansion: * USTDA recently
    announced funding for a $1.13 million feasibility study to help
    Bandwidth and Cloud Services Group (BCS) expand its operations to
    provide new and affordable broadband network access to thousands of
    individuals across East and Central Africa.  This grant facilitates
    the expansion of BCS’s fiber backbone and access network in Kenya,
    the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Tanzania, and Uganda.  In
    turn, the expansion should enable other internet service providers
    to make new investments that can provide affordable fixed wireless
    access for an even larger consumer market.

<!-- -->

-   *Affordable Urban Internet Connectivity:*  USTDA recently announced
    $1.26 million in funding for a feasibility study to assess market
    opportunities across Africa in support of Kenya-based Poa Internet’s
    delivery of affordable fixed wireless internet access.  The grant
    aims to evaluate the viability of expanding internet access to an
    additional one million households in low-income urban communities
    across the continent.

<!-- -->

-   *Bridging the Digital Divide Reverse Trade Mission Series:*  USTDA
    announced two upcoming reverse trade missions to introduce public
    and private sector representatives from Kenya and Tanzania to the
    latest U.S. technologies, services, and financing solutions for
    last-mile connectivity and cybersecurity.  Both reverse trade
    missions are focused on expanding internet access and improving
    cybersecurity governance, while increasing the likelihood that these
    digital transformation projects are implemented using U.S.
    technologies and services.

<!-- -->

-   *Mombasa to Malaba Fiber and Tower Infrastructure*:  At the 2024
    AmCham East Africa Business Summit, USTDA announced $1.2 million to
    address Kenya’s internet affordability gap.  USTDA’s grant to the
    Wilken Group enables evaluation of the development of fiber optic
    infrastructure and a series of 5G-capable towers along the Meter
    Gauge Railway between the cities of Mombasa and Malaba.

<!-- -->

-   *Africa Cross-Continental Fiber Backbone*:  At the 2024 AmCham East
    Africa Business Summit, USTDA announced $1.3 million in funding for
    a feasibility study for CSquared to assess plans for a
    cross-continent fiber optic backbone from East Africa to the
    Democratic Republic of the Congo.  The fiber optic backbone would
    help hundreds of thousands of Africans gain access to affordable
    broadband for the first time.  USTDA’s grant also aims to establish
    city-level fiber networks and last-mile connectivity to commercial
    buildings and homes.

<!-- -->

-   *Last-Mile Internet: * The Government of Kenya and Microsoft
    continue to collaborate to increase internet connectivity in Kenya
    and throughout the region, including by bringing last-mile wireless
    internet access to 20 million Kenyans and 50 million people across
    East Africa by the end of 2025.

<!-- -->

-   *Digital Transformation with Africa (DTA) Partnership with the Young
    African Leaders Initiative (YALI):*  DTA intends to provide $1
    million to YALI’s Regional Leadership Center (RLC) in Kenya to
    expand digital skills and literacy, support digital entrepreneurs
    and start-ups, and increase private sector engagement across East
    Africa.  This activity should inform additional DTA-YALI activities
    with other RLCs in Ghana, Senegal, and South Africa, benefiting
    young African leaders in 49 countries.

<!-- -->

-   *Construction of Green Data Center for Cloud Services*:  The
    government of Kenya and Microsoft announced they are joining a
    partnership that plans to construct a 1-gigawatt datacenter in
    Naivasha, Kenya.  The data center will be run on Microsoft Azure
    cloud services and offer access to cloud-based applications and
    services to organizations and individuals in Kenya and East Africa –
    allowing the Government of Kenya to move its data and services to
    trusted vendors.  The data center will be powered entirely by
    geothermal energy and will feature state-of-the-art water
    conservation technology to minimize water use. 

<!-- -->

-   *M-KOPA:*  DFC announced a $51 million loan to Kenyan company M-KOPA
    to support the financing of up to $210 million of smartphone
    receivables, and cash loans, increasing the affordability of devices
    to low-income borrowers.

<!-- -->

-   *Establishing Strategic Dialogue on AI*:  The governments of the
    United States and Kenya established a Strategic Dialogue on AI to
    discuss deepening our collaboration to ensure the development and
    deployment of safe, secure, and trustworthy AI systems.  This
    dialogue focuses on spurring innovation, bolstering sustainable and
    inclusive economic growth, promoting digital transformation,
    overcoming digital divides, and advancing democracy, equity, and
    universal human rights.  The Dialogue offers the opportunity to
    discuss and coordinate policies around the national security
    implications of AI and associated technologies.  The inaugural
    Strategic Dialogue on AI meeting is scheduled to take place in late
    2024.

<!-- -->

-   *Collaboration between the U.S. AI Safety Institute and Kenya’s
    Imagine Tech and Action Lab*:  The U.S. AI Safety Institute and
    Kenya’s equivalent Imagine Tech and Action Lab plan on future
    collaboration to advance scientific research for AI safety, develop
    guidance for safety evaluations and mitigations, and work towards
    interoperable standards.  This collaboration fosters connections
    between our talent, resources, and capacity in order to harness the
    benefits of AI safety for all.  Through this collaboration, Kenya
    intends to join a growing global scientific network of institutes
    focused on AI safety and committed to international cooperation.

**Peace and Security Cooperation:  Protecting People Across the Globe**
 

Decades of strong security cooperation between the United States and
Kenya have played a critical role in East Africa and beyond.  This
partnership extends to areas including international peacekeeping, peace
negotiations, security governance, refugee inclusion, and cooperation in
cybersecurity.  The U.S.-Kenya partnership plays a central role in
international efforts to defeat al-Shabaab, ISIS elements based in East
Africa, and other terrorist organizations.  The United States is also
firmly committed to supporting Kenya in its deployment to lead the
Multinational Security Support (MSS) mission to Haiti, providing much
needed security assistance to the Haitian people.

-   **Elevating our Bilateral Relationship:**  In a powerful symbol of
    the close relationship between the United States and Kenya, today
    President Biden is informing Congress he intends to designate Kenya
    as a Major Non-NATO Ally.  This designation is granted by the United
    States to countries with close and strategic working relationships
    with the U.S. military and defense civilians.  The United States has
    a deep respect for Kenya’s contributions to global peace and
    security.  This is the first designation of a sub-Saharan Africa
    nation as a Major Non-NATO Ally.

<!-- -->

-   **Promoting Peace and Security: ** To further strengthen and amplify
    Kenya’s regional role in peace negotiations and mediation, the U.S.
    Department of State’s Bureau of Conflict and Stabilization
    Operations is funding the Public International Law and Policy
    Group’s 12-month training program to establish an effective
    mediation/negotiations support unit in the Kenyan Ministry of
    Foreign Affairs Peace and Security Directorate.

<!-- -->

-   **Leading on Refugee Response:**  The United States and Kenya
    reiterate the importance of building a strong asylum system,
    partnering on social and economic integration of refugees and host
    communities, and supporting the U.S. Refugee Admissions Program. 
    Over the past 10 years, the U.S. Department of State’s Bureau of
    Population, Refugees, and Migration provided more than $667 million
    in humanitarian assistance in Kenya.  This funding supports basic
    needs, protection, and durable solutions for refugees and other
    vulnerable populations and promotes economic and financial inclusion
    for refugees and their Kenyan host communities.  In recognition of
    the importance of responsibility sharing and advancing solutions in
    protracted displacement, the United States has resettled more than
    26,000 third country refugees from Kenya since 2014.

<!-- -->

-   **Investing in the Security Sector: ** The United States is making
    long-term investments in Kenya’s defense capabilities, including by
    building border security capabilities, increasing maritime security
    awareness, improving peacekeeping capacity, supporting humanitarian
    response, and strengthening civilian and military defense
    institutions.  The United States has invested heavily in Keya’s
    defense capabilities, providing over $230 million in civilian
    security and defense sector funding since 2020, with a strategic
    focus on our shared counterterrorism interests, including a robust
    partnership with the Massachusetts National Guard under the State
    Partnership Program. 

<!-- -->

-   **Working Together to Bring Peace to Haiti: ** The United States
    reaffirmed its support for Kenya’s plan to deploy 1,000 police to
    Haiti as part of the MSS mission to Haiti to help bring security and
    stability to the Caribbean nation.  Answering the call from Haiti
    and the international community, Kenya has pledged lead an
    international force as authorized by a UN Security Council
    Resolution 2699.

<!-- -->

-   **Bolstering Criminal Justice System Response to Counter
    Terrorism:**  Consistent with the vision President Biden laid out at
    the U.S.-Africa Leaders Summit, the State Department Bureau of
    Counterterrorism announced $18.7 million to help build the Kenyan
    criminal justice system’s ability to address terrorism threats in a
    manner consistent with the rule of law.  The funds provide training,
    mentorship, and equipment to investigators, forensic examiners, law
    enforcement, court officials, and prosecutors.  The programming also
    promotes the U.S. Strategy on Women, Peace, and Security through
    specialized training and mentorship for female law enforcement
    officers in Kenya engaged in counterterrorism efforts and
    capacity-building measures to improve the meaningful participation
    of women in peace and security.

<!-- -->

-   **Countering Terrorism: ** Underscoring our shared commitment in the
    fight against terrorism, U.S. and Kenyan officials plan to sign a
    Memorandum of Understanding to expand the Manda Bay Airfield in
    coastal Kenya by building a 10,000-foot runway.  The expanded
    facility provides Kenya the required infrastructure to increase
    operations against the terrorist group al-Shabaab.

<!-- -->

-   **Deepening Cooperation on Information Sharing:**  The two countries
    have committed to deepen cooperation on counterterrorism information
    sharing to constitute a comprehensive response to the international
    terrorist threat.  Additionally, Kenya is in the process of joining
    Operation Gallant Phoenix, a program that advances multinational
    collaboration and sharing of terrorist information to build mutual
    capacity to collect and use battlefield evidence in civilian
    criminal justice proceedings in a multiagency, multinational
    setting.  These initiatives should help both countries better
    protect our borders and our citizens from terrorist actors.

<!-- -->

-   **Refurbishing and Delivering Helicopters: ** Kenya is scheduled to
    receive 16 U.S.-manufactured helicopters between late 2024 and
    summer 2025 to bolster its ability to provide regional peace and
    security (8 Hueys) and participate in peacekeeping missions (8
    MD-500s). 

<!-- -->

-   **Continuing Military Procurement:**  Kenya has one of the largest
    U.S. Foreign Military Sales portfolios in Africa.  Kenya selected
    approximately 150 M1117 Armored Security Vehicles from U.S. Excess
    Defense Article stocks, which are projected to arrive in Kenya
    September 2024.

<!-- -->

-   **Collaborating in Military Exercises: ** The United States
    welcomesKenya’s hosting of and participation in some of the largest
    U.S. military exercises in Africa, including Exercise JUSTIFIED
    ACCORD – the second largest U.S. military exercise in Africa – and
    Exercise CUTLASS EXPRESS, which focuses on building interoperability
    amongst multinational partners in the maritime environment.

<!-- -->

-   **Deepening A Legacy of Military Training and Capacity Building: **
    In summer 2024, for the first time the Kenya Defence Forces have
    candidates starting courses at the U.S. Military Academy, the U.S.
    Naval Academy, and the U.S. Air Force Academy, building on a long
    tradition of the majority of Kenyan general officers benefitting
    from U.S. International Military Education Training courses.  The
    U.S. military currently has seven advisors in Kenya supporting
    Kenyan aviators and for the first time, the United States is
    providing a Strategic Logistics Advisor to Kenya’s Ministry of
    Defence.  Kenya’s U.S.-trained Disaster Response Battalion has also
    been involved in recent search and rescue operations in response to
    recent flooding in Kenya.

\###
