---
date: '2024-05-23'
modified_time: 2024-05-23 12:44:21-04:00
published_time: 2024-05-23 12:45:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/05/23/united-states-kenya-joint-leaders-statement/
tags: statements-releases
title: "United\_States-Kenya Joint Leaders\u2019\_Statement"
---
 
This year, as the United States and Kenya commemorate our 60th
anniversary of diplomatic relations, we celebrate the remarkable growth
of our relationship.  The U.S.-Kenya partnership is expanding from a
regional to global one.  
  
Today, we, President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. of the United States and
President William S. Ruto of Kenya, reinforce our mutual commitment to
leading democracies that deliver prosperity, security, and opportunity. 
Africa stands primed for historic opportunity, and together, we
celebrate that Kenya has risen to the moment as a regional leader in
clean energy and digital transformation, and as an anchor partner for
health, security, and democracy.   
  
We are preparing together for our next 60 years – and beyond – as
friends and partners.  Current global trends toward geopolitical
instability, democratic backsliding, and rapid technological change have
increased uncertainty for many nations.  Yet the U.S.-Kenya bond is
stronger than ever.  We are committed to deepening cultural connections,
expanding opportunities for economic growth, and deepening our shared
commitment to democratic values and a secure future for all.  
  
To further enhance our relationship, today we announce several
initiatives that foster meaningful democratic reform, protect public
health, expand our people-to-people connections, advance climate
solutions, boost trade and investment, mitigate debt burdens in
developing countries, accelerate digital innovation, and bolster global
security.  As we look to the next six decades of the U.S.-Kenya
relationship, we celebrate a partnership that is delivering for the
people of the United States, Kenya, and beyond.  
  
**Democracy Delivers **  
  
Our partnership is anchored in democracy and driven by people.  Together
we share the belief that democracy requires ongoing work, and thrives
when we commit to continually strengthen our democratic institutions.
 This historic State Visit is about the Kenyan and American people and
their hopes for an inclusive, sustainable, and prosperous future for
all.  It also showcases the depth and breadth of our democracies.  Even
as we two Presidents meet, this visit features mayors, governors,
legislators, businesspeople, educators, and civil society – underscoring
our democracies are far bigger than any one person, institution or
interest.  
  
The United States and Kenya know that a robust civil society is
necessary for democracy to thrive.  We are working together to ensure
the United States’ [Presidential Initiative for Democratic
Renewal](https://gcc02.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.whitehouse.gov%2Fbriefing-room%2Fstatements-releases%2F2021%2F12%2F09%2Ffact-sheet-announcing-the-presidential-initiative-for-democratic-renewal%2F&data=05%7C02%7CGignilliatAH%40state.gov%7C702b619408ea423d3dac08dc69471346%7C66cf50745afe48d1a691a12b2121f44b%7C0%7C0%7C638501001705486461%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C0%7C%7C%7C&sdata=35DGFWTk29g%2BgCmbdsRQfuIgjk7bPkiflH34W1HgTuA%3D&reserved=0)
benefits Kenya with programs that defend democratic elections and
political processes, increase women’s political participation and
leadership, counter gender-based violence online and offline, and
advance digital democracy.  The United States commends and commits to
supporting the groundbreaking civil society protections contained in
Kenya’s recently operationalized Public Benefits Organization Act.  The
United States also intends to assist Kenya’s efforts to strengthen
institutions and combat corruption, including investing in
anti-corruption controls and creating space for independent police
management and oversight.  We continue to strengthen the Open Government
Partnership, which Kenya co-leads and the United States co-founded,
including through robustly fulfilling our open government commitments at
home.  
  
The United States and Kenya affirm our commitment to upholding the human
rights of all, and together we stand with people around the world
defending their rights against the forces of autocracy.  As part of our
efforts to continually strengthen our own democracies, Kenya and the
United States are continuing bilateral dialogues that reinforce
commitments to human rights and bolster the integrity of democratic
institutions.  Together we also aim to improve security sector
governance and accountability, ensure respect for equality and
non-discrimination, and defend the rights of all, especially women and
other marginalized groups.  We commit to protecting civil society
autonomy, defending media freedom, and fortify the rule of law to create
an enabling environment for growth and prosperity.  
  
**Deepening our Partnership to Look After our Collective Health**  
  
The United States and Kenya have long been active partners in our
efforts to prevent, detect, and respond to infectious disease threats. 
To optimize public health expertise and systems, we affirm our
collaboration on essential public health services including a
high-capacity workforce, disease surveillance, laboratory work,
emergency management and response, and scientific research.   
  
Together we also reaffirm our commitment to end HIV as a public health
threat in Kenya by 2027, and we are working together to develop a
“Sustainability Roadmap” to integrate HIV service delivery into primary
health care, ensuring quality and impact are retained.  With more than
$7 billion in support from the President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS
Relief (PEPFAR) over the last 21 years, the United States and Kenya have
long worked hand-in-hand to responded to the HIV epidemic.  We jointly
commit to determine how to ensure long-term sustainability of the HIV
response in Kenya.   
  
To optimize public health expertise and systems, we pledge to jointly
build up the Kenya National Public Health Institute (NPHI) through a
partnership with the U.S. Centers for Disease Control (CDC) and
Prevention – the U.S.’s NPHI.  To address the challenges of the future,
public health decisions must be data-driven, so over the visit the
United States committed to support the digitization of health systems in
communities and facilities across Kenya.  Additionally, the U.S. CDC and
the Kenya Medical Research Institute formally pledged to enhance their
collaboration around innovation, research, and implementation science.
 A skilled and ready workforce is foundational to improving health
security, and our partnership is helping build emergency management
workforce capacity in the United States and Kenya.  
  
Finally, to ensure that our collective progress in the fight against
global infectious diseases is sustained, our partnership must evolve to
build on the foundations of Kenya’s vibrant medical manufacturing
sector.  Together, we seek to promote technological collaboration
between U.S. and Kenya businesses, increase access to capital to grow
Kenya’s pharmaceutical and device manufacturing sector, and strengthen
regulatory capacity to ensure Kenyan products can be brought to
international markets.  We have witnessed that these types of
partnerships deliver.  With support from the U.S. Agency for
International Development (USAID) and the Bill and Melinda Gates
Foundation, Revital Healthcare, a Kenya-based company, has built the
largest medical diagnostic plant in Africa, capable of producing 240
million diagnostic tests for HIV, malaria, dengue, syphilis, hepatitis
A&B, and pregnancy each year.   
  
**Fostering People-to-People Ties to Improve and Enrich Lives**  
  
Underpinning our shared dedication to address global challenges are the
strong and enduring connections between Kenyans and Americans.  Every
year thousands of Kenyans and Americans travel between our countries to
visit family, conduct business, study, and engage in tourism.  These
ties of friendship and cooperation are the driving force behind the
successful partnership between our governments.    
  
As our countries celebrate 60 years of bilateral relations, with this
visit we are proud to announce a new educational exchange program with a
focus on science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) as fields of
the future.  The Kennedy-Mboya Partnerships program honors the personal
bond between U.S. President John F. Kennedy and Kenyan political
activist and academic Tom Mboya that brought hundreds of Kenyans to the
United States to pursue higher education.  This initiative aims to
foster a new generation of Kenyan leaders, continuing the important work
of building people-to-people connections and advancing our shared
agenda.  
  
The United States and Kenya continue to work together to build the
competencies needed for our collective future.  We commit to doing so by
promoting the development of strategic STEM sectors for our long-term
and sustainable economic growth.  New initiatives supported by over $25
million in public and private sector funding between U.S. and Kenyan
educational institutions – including Historically Black Colleges and
Universities – designed to establish new linkages, partnerships, and
exchange programs between American and Kenyan students, educators, and
researchers.  
  
In equipping the workforce of tomorrow the United States and Kenya also
commit to strengthen cooperation on tertiary education in the areas of
executive and leadership training and public policy, and through
concrete collaborations between U.S. and Kenyan post-secondary
institutions.  The United States and Kenya welcome Kenya’s selection as
the first country to be added to a new fellowship program for mid-career
government officials that Johns Hopkins University intends to launch
this fall.  Separately, the United States Foreign Service Institute and
the Kenyan Foreign Service Academy have committed to closer cooperation
and to explore Kenya’s participation in an international community of
practice for diplomatic training.  
  
The United States and Kenya continue our robust collaboration in the
creative industries.  This cooperation offers unique pathways for
amplifying voices from across diverse societies, and for connecting our
people to experiences and stories that inspire us all.   
  
**Cooperating on Climate Action and Green Industrialization**  
  
As leaders, we share the conviction that while climate change is the
existential challenge of our time, our response to it is the most
significant economic opportunity of the 21st century.  Today we announce
the launch of a U.S.-Kenya Climate and Clean Energy Industrial
Partnership to elevate climate action and green industrialization as a
critical pillar of our bilateral relationship.  It also signals our
intent to advance a new green growth framework throughout Africa. 
Through this partnership, the United States and Kenya plan to prioritize
cooperation across the three mutually-supportive areas of clean energy
deployment, clean energy supply chains, and green industrialization.
 The United States and Kenya pledge to leverage our countries’
comparative advantages in the clean energy sector and to develop
resilient value chains for low-emission goods and climate-forward
services, including electric vehicle supply chains and e-mobility,
carbon capture and storage technologies, green agricultural processing,
clean cooking technologies, and green data centers.  In our bilateral
engagement, the United States and Kenya commit to consult on key policy,
trade, and regulatory reforms to support the development of and
investment in green industrial opportunities.  
  
Both sides acknowledge the importance of expanding trusted supply chain
networks, and pledge, through this Partnership, to explore how
integrated and expanded clean energy supply chains and services can help
the United States, Kenya, and Africa collectively reduce emissions as we
simultaneously grow our economies.  We have started this Partnership
through clean technology and investment engagements with Kenya,
collaborating with companies that invest in clean energy development and
energy-intensive industries.  The U.S. Department of Energy is working
with the Government of Kenya to launch and shape such engagements.  
  
President Biden commends President Ruto’s signature Africa Green
Industrialization Initiative (AGII) as a groundbreaking effort to drive
African agency in the energy transition, building on the core tenets of
the Nairobi Declaration, which commits to bold action at a scale
commensurate to the challenge at hand.  To this end, the United States
and Kenya intend to leverage the successful model of President Biden’s
“government-enabled, private-sector-led” approach to sustainable
economic growth through the Partnership for Global Infrastructure and
Investment (PGI) and mobilize multilateral financial, technical, and
regulatory support across public and private sectors to realize the
vision of AGII, particularly to support the growth of clean energy
manufacturing in Kenya and the region.  To this end, Kenya is joining
the Clean Energy Supply Chain Collaborative (CESC) as a strategic launch
partner in Africa.  The United States and Kenya plan to work with
international financial institutions and multilateral trust funds, and
other partners, to identify effective mechanisms to mobilize investment
to support the AGII and position Kenya and regional partners to seize
the historic economic opportunities of the clean energy.  
  
As the globe transitions to clean energy, the United States recognizes
Kenya as a model: with over 90 percent of Kenya’s energy produced from
renewable sources, clean energy is already at work there. U.S. companies
and investors have been strong partners of Kenya in this sector. 
Working together, our partnership will help advance the next epoch of
human development into a new green trajectory.  
  
**Encouraging Trade and Investment to Generate Prosperity**  
  
This visit also demonstrates how together, we are drawing in the private
sector to drive shared prosperity.  Like the United States, Kenya is an
engine for innovation, and our trade and investment partnership
generates well-paying jobs and expands sustainable economic growth. 
This week, the U.S. International Development Finance Corporation alone
[announced deals](https://dfcgov.my.canva.site/dfc-in-kenya) that take
its portfolio in Kenya to over $1 billion and we witnessed the signing
of multiple private sector deals including the Coca-Cola Company’s new
$175 million investment in Kenya.  We expect these and other deals to
generate hundreds of millions more in economic activity, all enabled by
Kenya’s status as a stable democracy with a growing skilled and
innovative labor market.    
  
Working together over the past two years, we have reduced barriers to
private-sector investments between our countries.  This week, we are
going further with a new commercial and investment partnership
memorandum of understanding that seeks to identify and remove
constraints to trade and investment, and to identify and facilitate
commercial opportunities.  By improving the business climate, we are
creating thousands of new jobs and dozens of new investment
opportunities that benefit both the United States and Kenya.  We welcome
that private companies have worked with the U.S. and Kenyan governments
to transform these reforms into impactful, innovative, and inclusive
projects.  
  
The United States and Kenya [have
committed](https://ustr.gov/about-us/policy-offices/press-office/press-releases/2024/may/united-states-and-kenya-joint-statement-after-fifth-round-us-kenya-strategic-trade-and-investment) to
work to conclude an agreement by the end of the year on an ambitious
U.S.-Kenya Strategic Trade and Investment Partnership that reflects
mutually shared goals and values.  Under this initiative, our
governments resolve to pursue high-standard commitments in multiple
areas with a view to increasing investment, promoting sustainable and
inclusive economic growth, protecting workers, benefiting consumers and
businesses, and supporting African regional economic integration.   
  
We believe bilateral trade and investment ties are the foundation of our
joint prosperity.  The African Growth and Opportunity Act (AGOA) is the
cornerstone of the U.S. trade relationship with Kenya and across
sub-Saharan Africa, and we would welcome its timely reauthorization. 
AGOA is about more than just trade: it supports policies to reduce
poverty, combat corruption, and promote respect for human rights and
workers’ rights.  We believe that trade policies should foster inclusive
and sustainable development, support regional integration, and ensure
that all of our respective peoples – including and especially workers –
benefit from the global economy.   
  
Kenya’s apparel sector is evidence of the power of this approach.  Since
the passage of the AGOA in 2000, Kenya’s apparel sector has forged
robust partnerships with local manufacturers and U.S. buyers, and
exports to the U.S. have reached record levels and are now worth
hundreds of millions of dollars annually.  Ongoing investments by USAID
and the Kenyan private sector are expected to generate an additional
$250 million in apparel exports to the United States and create over
20,000 new jobs.  Crucially, these investments diversify U.S. supply
chains and empower Kenya’s apparel sector by developing domestic
production of packaging, labeling, and other essential materials.  
  
With this visit, we mark the official launch of the Kenya Urban Mobility
and Growth Threshold Program, with $60 million in economic assistance
through the U.S. Government’s Millennium Challenge Corporation.  The
program supports improvements in urban land use and strengthens the
planning and preparation of a more integrated transport systems with
investments in clean public transport and safer transport options for
pedestrians, women and other underserved groups.  
  
**Debt, Development, and Sustainable Finance**  
  
The United States and Kenya are determined to lead a global transition
to the economies of the future.  To achieve this, the international
community must take bold action to address mounting debt burdens in
developing countries.  Far too many countries are forced to make
difficult decisions between paying back creditors and making critical
investments in their own economy and people.  Today, we launched the
[*Nairobi-Washington
Vision*.](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/05/23/the-nairobi-washington-vision/) 
It calls for countries with high ambition with respect to investments in
their own development and addressing global challenges to be met with
equally high ambition from the international community so that they do
not have to choose between investing in their future and paying their
debts.  
  
The United States is stepping up its support to the international
financial institutions to help make this shared vision a reality.  As
part of evolving the multilateral development banks, the United States
has worked with Kenya and other shareholders over the past year to
secure reforms to unlock over $250 billion in new lending headroom at
these institutions.  In addition, the United States intends to make
available in the coming weeks lending of up to $21 billion to the
International Monetary Fund to support financing needs for the poorest
countries, and has made available this week $250 million in new
financing to the International Development Association’s Crisis Response
Window at the World Bank to support crisis response in the world’s
poorest countries.  The United States also championed the expansion to
select countries in Sub-Saharan Africa of the European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (EBRD), where the United States is the
largest shareholder.  And together, the United States and Kenya worked
to successfully secure Kenya’s membership in the EBRD to boost private
sector development in the country.  
  
Going forward, the United States and Kenya continue to collaborate
toward enacting policy changes and securing resources to ensure that
transparent, sustainable, and resilient financing replaces opaque and
unsustainable lending.  We are cooperating to finalize an ambitious
policy and financial package for the replenishment of the International
Development Association, which provides crucial resources to the world’s
poorest and most vulnerable countries.  President Biden has also
requested funding in his fiscal year 2025 budget that would enable $36
billion in new lending capacity at the World Bank that, together with
contributions from international partners, could provide an additional
over $100 billion boost to World Bank financing capacity over time.  
  
**Cooperating on Digital Technology to Deliver Innovation, Progress, and
Inclusion**  
  
Today we also pledge to bolster the already strong cooperation between
the U.S. and Kenyan technology sectors.  The success of our economic
partnerships in all sectors relies on digital innovation, secure and
resilient technology supply chains, and highly skilled workforces.  We
welcome the private companies that have worked with the U.S. and Kenyan
governments to initiate impactful, innovative, and inclusive
investments.  Since our countries began working together to improve
opportunities in the digital economy, a growing list of American
technology companies have opened innovation hubs and made major
investments in Kenya to the benefit of both of our nations.   
  
The United States and Kenya seek to work together to uplift the Kenyan
model for digital transformation in Africa, especially through its
dynamic digital ecosystem known as the “Silicon Savannah.” in our
collaboration to focus private sector attention on the Silicon Savannah,
and in partnership with President Biden’s Digital Transformation with
Africa initiative, we aim to advance digital transformation and
inclusion in Kenya and across the African continent.  
  
The United States views Kenya as a strong emergent partner in building
resilient semiconductor supply chains.  Accordingly, the United States
plans to develop options to expand Kenya’s technical workforce and
strengthen its regulatory environment to help attract further private
investment and cultivate potential linkages to the U.S. semiconductor
supply chain.  To this end, the United States will work with Congress to
partner with the Government of Kenya to explore opportunities to grow
and diversify the global semiconductor ecosystem, specifically in the
assembly, testing and packaging sector, under the International
Technology Security and Innovation (ITSI) Fund, created by the CHIPS Act
of 2022.  
  
Kenya and the United States are committed to enhancing technical and
policy cooperation to advance the bilateral cybersecurity relationship. 
We recognize cybersecurity is the foundation for a secure and resilient
digital ecosystem.  We both underscore our commitment to the Framework
for Responsible State Behavior in Cyberspace.  Bilateral cooperation
should extend to regional outreach and information sharing between among
likeminded partners to strengthen East Africa’s cyber posture.  Our
governments, with private sector partners, look forward to developing
Kenya’s capacity through telecommunications and data infrastructure to
support long-term digital growth.  
  
Together, we remain committed to our recently announced [partnership to
harness Artificial
Intelligence](https://www.commerce.gov/news/press-releases/2024/04/joint-statement-harnessing-artificial-intelligence-facilitating-data)
(AI), facilitate trusted free flows of data, and accelerate digital
upskilling.  Building on this initiative, the governments of the United
States and Kenya intend to establish a Strategic Dialogue on AI to
discuss deepening our collaboration to ensure the development and
deployment of safe, secure, and trustworthy AI systems.  
  
**Partnering on Regional Challenges and Global Security**  
  
Underscoring the elevation of our strategic relationship, President
Biden announced his intent to designate Kenya as a Major Non-NATO Ally –
the first such designation for a sub-Saharan African country.  This is a
powerful symbol of the close relationship our two countries share, and
we welcome the increased cooperation on security and mutual priorities
this action signals.  
  
This decision also reflects United States’ respect for Kenya’s
increasingly significant contributions to solving regional and global
challenges.  Together, we express dismay at the deepening humanitarian
crises in the Horn of Africa and the threat of famine caused by war and
exacerbated by extreme climatic conditions, including acute drought
followed by recent record floods.  We share an ongoing commitment to
ensuring humanitarian response and food security development assistance
keeps step with the challenges facing the region and beyond.   
  
President Biden appreciates Kenya for engaging in multiple efforts to
de-escalate conflicts in South Sudan, Sudan, the Democratic Republic of
Congo, as well as between Somalia and Ethiopia.  The United States and
Kenya continue to work together to mediate regional crises, protect
civilians from atrocities, and support efforts aimed at restoring peace
and addressing the root causes of conflict.  We call on the warring
parties in Sudan to facilitate unhindered humanitarian access and
immediately commit to a ceasefire.  We reiterate our shared commitment
to a negotiated diplomatic solution to the conflict in the Democratic
Republic of Congo and support for the Luanda and Nairobi processes.  
  
In Somalia, we continue to work together to support the Somali
government in its fight against al-Shabaab, and reaffirm our strong
cooperation in the fight against terrorism and violent extremism.  We
continue to discuss the options for a multilateral mission to follow the
African Union Transitional Mission in Somalia (ATMIS).   
  
The United States also recognizes the longstanding generosity of Kenya
in hosting refugees and providing protection to vulnerable populations
in the region displaced by natural disasters, conflict, and
persecution.  The United States and Kenya reiterate the importance of
building a strong asylum system in Kenya, partnering on the integration
of refugees and host communities, and supporting the U.S. Refugee
Admissions Program.  Together the United States and Kenya expect to
focus on financial inclusion and refugee contributions to Kenya’s
economic development through access to business, employment, and
education opportunities, as well as access to commercial and public
services.    
  
Kenya is a significant contributor to peace support operations and has
deployed troops to secure peace in African nations and throughout the
world.  The United States appreciates and supports Kenya’s leadership,
pursuant to UN Security Council Resolution 2699, in coordinating the
Multinational Security Support Mission to Haiti.  The United States
plans to provide more than $300 million in assistance and in-kind
support to the mission.  The deployment of Kenyan police to Haiti, where
1,000 of Kenya’s police aim to bring much-needed safety and security to
the people of this Caribbean nation is a testament to Kenya’s global
commitment, reach, and impact.   
  
We reaffirmed our shared commitment to a rules-based international
order, respect for territorial integrity, and the sovereignty of all
countries.  Across the globe, we have seen these tenets tested by
illegal and unjustified actions, including the attempted seizure of
territory.  All democracies must stand firm in our support for the core
principles of the UN Charter.   
  
Today, we look to the next 60 years of U.S.-Kenyan relations with
optimism.  We have reaffirmed our partnership, its foundation, and the
aspirations we share for the future.  We are moving beyond a regional
focus to taking on global challenges together.  We share the commitment
that democracy must—and can—deliver on citizens’ priorities.  And we are
harnessing the power of the private sector to implement creative
solutions to some of our most intractable challenges, and to leverage
emerging opportunities.  With this visit, we celebrate a partnership
that is delivering for the people of the United States, Kenya and
beyond. 

\###
