---
date: '2024-05-03'
modified_time: 2024-05-02 22:42:34-04:00
published_time: 2024-05-03 05:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/05/03/statement-by-president-joe-biden-on-the-occasion-of-world-press-freedom-day-2024/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement by President Joe\_Biden on the Occasion of World Press Freedom Day\_\
  2024"
---
 
The free press is an essential pillar of democracy, and the women and
men worldwide who uphold it do vital work. Journalists go to great
lengths to expose corruption, document wars and other urgent world
events, bring to light threats to public safety, and bring citizens the
information they need to participate fully in their societies. Some
journalists have given their lives to this work. Others have suffered
grievous injuries or lost their freedom. 

Journalism should not be a crime anywhere on Earth. On World Press
Freedom Day, we honor the bravery and sacrifice of journalists and media
workers around the world risking everything in pursuit of truth. 

This is especially resonant today. 2023 was one of the deadliest years
for journalists in recent memory. One reason for that is the war in
Gaza, where far too many journalists, the vast majority of them
Palestinian, have been killed. Additionally, over 300 journalists were
imprisoned around the world last year – the highest number in decades. 
In Russia, American journalists Evan Gershkovich and Alsu Kurmasheva
have been imprisoned in connection with their work for the Wall Street
Journal and for Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty. And Austin Tice is
still being held hostage in Syria after nearly twelve years.

On World Press Freedom Day, the United States calls for the immediate
and unconditional release of all journalists who have been put behind
bars for simply doing their jobs. And we call for the protection of
journalists everywhere, including during military operations. My
Administration will continue to support free and independent media
worldwide. We have brought together a coalition of countries to counter
the proliferation and misuse of commercial spyware, which is often used
to monitor journalists worldwide. And we’re taking action to combat
crimes against journalists, strengthen security for independent media
outlets, and provide legal support for investigative journalists around
the world. 

In the coming weeks, I will be taking executive action in response to
the global crackdown on press freedom, as exemplified by the wrongful
detention of journalists around the world. I will declare this crackdown
on press freedom a grave threat to national security and will authorize
measures, including sanctions and visa bans, against those who take
abusive actions to silence the press. 

Journalists and media workers are an essential part of any democracy,
because well-informed dissent is critical to building stronger and more
successful societies. Today and every day, we recognize their courage,
support their right to do their jobs, and stand with them for press
freedom.

\###
