---
date: '2024-05-08'
modified_time: 2024-05-08 14:04:19-04:00
published_time: 2024-05-08 14:04:18-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/05/08/press-gaggle-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-en-route-milwaukee-wi-2/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Press Gaggle by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre En Route Milwaukee,\_WI"
---
 
Aboard Air Force One  
En Route Milwaukee, Wisconsin

10:56 A.M. EDT

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hey, everybody.

Q    Hello.

Q    Hello, hello.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  So, as you all know, we’re en rou- — en route
to Racine, Wisconsin, to showcase a community that underscores the
President’s Invest in America agenda.

Today, President Biden will announce a $3.3 billion investment by
Microsoft to build a new AI data center in Racine, creating 2,300 union
construction jobs and 2,000 permanent jobs over time.  Microsoft will
also provide scaling opportunities for thousands more Wisconsinites in
the digital economy.

You may remember this is the same location as a failed $10 billion
investment from Foxconn that the previous administration touted six
years ago.  That failed deal ultimately left behind Wisconsin residents
and workers.

Today’s announcement is just the latest example of how President Biden’s
agenda is bringing innovation hubs to every corner of the country. 
President Biden is delivering on his promise to create good jobs that
will have a lasting impact on communities and families. 

And with that.

Q    Two quick things.  The —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’ll try and be loud.  I’m sorry.

Q    Okay.  The — going to Racine, so you were mentioning that the
former President’s — the investment didn’t go through.  How can Biden
guarantee that this investment will go through when, you know, the other
one failed?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, so, look — so, I’m going to obviously let — let
— let Fox speak to their hirings.  What I can say is that the massive
multibillion investment employing thirt- — employing 13,000 workers —
that the previous administration promise never materialized.

Instead, today, we’ve re- — we’ve — we’ve — we’re — we — we’re headed to
the very same site where, instead of Foxconn, Microsoft will announce a
major investment in this community.

So, this is an American company making a long-term investment in this
community.  So, you know, Microsoft isn’t just investing in this data
center.  They’re investing in job training in the wider community and
building an AI ecosystem in Wisconsin.   So —

Q    The U.S. paused the shipment of bombs to Israel.  I wondered if you
can say anything about Isr- — how Israel has responded to the pause.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I’m not going to give any comment to the press
reportings out there.  You’ve heard us say many times over the past
couple of days that our commitment to Israel’s — Israel’s security is
ironclad.  I’m just not going to speak to the press reportings out there
at this time.

Q    There were reports today that the administration will miss a
deadline to deliver a report assessing Israel’s actions in Gaza to
Congress.  Can you comment on that?  And will the report be issued soon?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, this is something that the State Department
is working very hard on.  I was asked a similar question yesterday.  My
colleague at the State Department, Matt Miller, spoke to this in his
briefing yesterday.  They are working very hard to get this done.  And
so, I would refer you to the State Department on that particular
question.

Q    Just on the ceasefire negotiations.  Netanyahu said that Hamas’s
offer was very far from — from where Israel is right now.  What is the
President’s outlook on the possibility of a ceasefire?  Is he still
optimistic or is this hanging by a thread?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I think what’s important to note are two things.
  That’s our top priority: to get to — to a hostage deal to — that would
lead to a ceasefire — obviously, bring home hostages — some of those
hostages include American hostages — create an environment where we can
surge humanitarian aid.  Those things are — have been priorities for
this administration.

The talks are — continue.  The talks are ongoing.  And I think that’s
important to note as well.

And I said this yesterday and I’ll say it again: A close assessment of
the two sides’ positions suggests they should be able to close the gap —
the existing — the remaining gap. 

So, we’re going to continue to support that process.  And that’s where
we are right now.  It is a top priority for this President.

Q    Karine, Ro Khanna was just on CNN saying that, you know, maybe if
it — if Burns isn’t able to close this deal — he’s been going for months
— maybe it’s time to send someone else.  Are you throwing any other
diplomats or other government officials at this issue?  And is the
President growing more frustrated with Benjamin Netanyahu for not
listening to his entreaties?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, a couple of things there.  Look, I just said
that our assessment is that — you know, that the two sides, what remains
— the gap that remains could be closed.  And that is our assessment. 
That’s what we believe.

So, we’re going to support that process.  And we’re going to continue to
push that process along.  It is our pro- — it is a top priority.  And
so, we’re — let’s — let’s that — let — let that happen.   

The talks are continuing.  That’s important.  And the President has
confidence in his team to continue supporting that process so we can get
to an incredibly important hostage deal.

Q    You’ve been close before.  You’ve said you’re close. You keep
saying, “We’re close.”

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I know.  I know.

Q    I mean, are you closer now than you were —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look —

Q    — a week ago?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, here’s the thing.  I’m — I’m not going to get
into — into point by point here.  This is a priority.  This is a top
priority.  We’re talking about creating an environment so that we can
surge humanitarian aid.

We know how dire the situation is in Gaza.  We want to continue to get
that humanitarian aid, and we want a ceasefire.  We want a ceasefire. 
You heard that from the President directly.

And let’s not forget: We got to get these hostages home.  We have to get
them home to their loved ones and to their families.

So, we — we’re — we’re going to continue to be optimistic.  We’re going
to continue to make this a priority.  We know how important it is to get
this done.

And, look, you know, we believe that the — what — what exists — the gaps
that exist between the two from our assessments can be — can close.  And
so, I think the most important thing — we believe the most important
thing is to supporting that process and to be optimistic about it. 

Q    Will the —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And be very, very clear about what we want to see to
all of you.

Q    Will the President call Netanyahu again?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So — as you just said, “again” — they spoke earlier
this week on Monday.  The President had a 30-minute conversation with
the Prime Minister.  It was constructive, it was direct, as many of
their conversations have been, certainly since October 7th.

And the President talked about the Rafah crossing, talked about the
importance of opering — opening Kerem — Kerem Shalom, as we all are —
review all the reporting.  And we have been told by Israel that that has
been opened.  It is important to get those trucks in.  It is important
to get that aid into — into Gaza.  So, that’s what we want to see.

And so, that — that worked.  Right?  That moved forward. 

And so, look, we’re going to continue to have our conversations with our
Israeli counterparts.  And we certainly will let you know if there —
there will be — or we’ll — we’ll — if there is another conversation with
the Prime Minister.

Q    Is — is delaying arms shipments a tool that the administration is
willing to use to try to get Israel to — to follow American requests?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I’m not going to speak to the — I’m not
going to speak to the — the press reportings out there.  What I can say
is — and I said this yesterday; you’ve heard this from my NSC
counterparts as well — is that our — our support for Israel continues to
be ironclad — Israel’s security to be — continues to be ironclad.  And I
just don’t have anything else to share.

Q    And is that something that the American government could do,
conceivably, without specifically commenting on the reports?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Not going to get into hypotheticals.  Here’s what I
will say is that we have been engaging in a dialogue with Israel in — in
part through the Strategic Consult- — Consultative Group format on how —
for example, how they’re going to meet the humanitarian needs of
civilians in Rafah — that’s something, as you know, that’s been
certainly a concern for us — and how to operate differently against
Hamas there, and — and — than any — than they have elsewhere in Gaza.

Those discussions obviously are ongoing.  And those are going to
continue.  And it’s — we are — and we’re — and — and, as we can say,
they have not fully addressed our concerns.  And so, I’m going to leave
that there.

But I’m not going to speak to the — to the press — to the press
reporting out there.

Q    Did the President direct that those weapons shipments be delayed?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m — I’m just not going to speak to the press
reportings out there.  We have been —

Q    (Inaudible.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m — I’m —

Q    A senior administration official —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I hear you.  I — I am not going to —

Q    — confirmed it yesterday.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I hear you.  I’m telling you I’m not going to
speak to the press reportings out there. 

What we will continue to say is that we — our — our support for Israel’s
security is ironclad.

Q    Can I ask about a couple of the regulatory things —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, absolutely.

Q    — that are being rushed through this y- — you’ve got an ongoing 301
tariff review.  You know, we’re very interested in that.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I know you are. 

Q    Any update on the timing —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I know you —

Q    — of the President’s thinking on that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I knew you were — you were very interested in that.

Q    Well, the President announced a bit of it in Pittsburgh.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  No, you did — you’re right —

Q    Whet our appetite little.  (Laughter.)  Any update you

can share?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I don’t have an update on timeline at this point.

Q    Are — is he planning one announcement or little ones like that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m just going to be mindful, let that process
continue.  I just don’t have anything to share beyond —

Q    And —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — what the President shared in Pittsburgh.

Q    — on the marijuana rescheduling.  Does he have a position on that? 
Does he support moving it —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We’re going to let that — the rou- — the review
process continue.  So, do- — I’m not going to get ahead of that. 

The President has been very clear — right? — about marijuana
possession.  He doesn’t believe any American that ha- — that possesses
marijuana should be — only mari- — possesses marijuana only — should —
should go to jail.  That has always been — that has been his — his
position o- — certainly over the past couple of years.

We’re going to — and that’s why he directed HHS and DOJ to review the —
rescheduling marijuana.  They’re doing that — that process has moved —
right? — went through HHS, now it’s at DOJ.  I just don’t want to get
ahead of that.

Q    Can I ask you —

Q    And (inaudible) —

Q    — a domestic question?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    So, overnight, police, you know, closed down the encampment at GW
University.  Tear gas was used.  There were some arrests made.  These
kind of encampments are continuing.  But, also, the police action
against the encampments has been quite aggressive.  And, you know, there
have been concerns raised about policing, obviously, since George
Floyd’s murder and long before that. 

Are you taking a look at any of the police actions?  Or has the — or
have you asked the Justice Department to make sure that they’re staying
within bounds?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, as we’ve said many times, especially over the past
week, is that when it comes to decisions of what’s happening on the
ground, that’s certainly up to the university leaders and local police
enforcement.  And that certainly continues to be the case, even what we
see happening at GW.

You all heard the President repeat that message he’s had throughout this
last week: The right to dissent is fundamental to who we are, but it
cannot lead to disorder and violence, threats, vandalism, trespassing,
and/or shutting down campuses.  Students have the right to be safe.  And
antis- — antisemitism is repugnant.  And we’ve been very clear about
that.

And so, look, you know, what’s happening on the ground, what’s happening
locally is something that that assessment is being made by university
and colleges and, obviously, law enforcement.  So, we leave that to them
to make that decision on how to move forward.

And — but we want to make sure that students feel safe — that they feel
safe to be able to learn, to have an academic experience that they
should be having.  And so, I’m just going to leave it there for now.

Q    Do you think the protesters would be appeased if there were some
moves to bring Palestinian refugees in?  There’s some discussion — we
understand the administration is looking at some moves to bring in
Palestinians from Gaza.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, there — I don’t have any news to share about those
discussions, obviously.  As you know, very early on, when we had learned
that there were about 1,800 Palestinian Americans in Gaza, we did
everything that we can to get them out if they wanted to.  And we — we
were able to do that.  The State Department certainly will have more to
share there.

I just don’t have anything to share beyond — beyond that.  And no
announcement on — on news as it relates to that.

Q    The — the House will vote this week on a bill that would add a
citizenship question to the U.S. Census.  Does the administration
believe that non-citizens should be counted toward congressional and
Electoral College? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I got to — I’ve not talked to anybody on the team
about that.  That’s new to me.  So, I would have to — I don’t want to
get ahead of — of our team.

Q    Just one on Russia.  Russia fired 50 cruise missiles and drones at
Ukraine’s power system last night.  Is the — is the administration
looking at ways of bolstering the energy system within Ukraine to
protect it?  It’s been a major target recently.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, we’ve talked about our concerns there over the
past almost two years — more than two years about when it comes to
Russians’ a- — obviously Russians’ actions on — on the grid.

Look, we have been very clear.  We want to make sure that we provide
Ukraine the — the security assistance to defend themselves.  Right? 
They are def- — they are fighting back against Russia’s aggression. 
This is obviously an — an example of that.  And so, we’re doing
everything that we can. 

We were very grateful for that national security supplemental to go
through.  The Ukrainian, obviously, component was incredibly important. 
As we saw, Ukraine was losing ground on the — on — because of congr- —
congressional inaction.

So, we’re going to continue to provide Ukrainians what they need to — to
defend themselves.  Obviously, that’s a concern, when it comes to energy
grids.  We’re going to continue to monitor that.  But — and we’re going
to continue to work with Ukrainians to make sure they have what they
need to continue to fight that — the battle that they have to on the
ground.

Q    Fifteen House Democrats wrote a letter to the President urging him
to take executive action on immigration.  Is that something he’s still
considering doing?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, here’s the thing.  Two — two times — and more
than two times — but the first day that the President walked into the
administration, he took action — put forth a comprehensive immigration
plan.

We know that the immigration system has been broken for decades, and we
need to address that.  Congress didn’t act.  They didn’t take action. 

And then, most recently — you’ve heard me talk about this over and over
again — that was that Senate bipartisan agreement that came out of —
obviously out of the Senate.  We wanted to move that forward.  It would
have been the toughest, the fairest piece of legislation — or law, if
the President had been able to sign it — he would love to sign that —
that we — that would have been enacted to deal with the immigration —
the broken immigration system.

It got — it held up — it was held up because of the former President
saying — telling Republicans to reject it.

We want to see that moving forward.  We — that’s what we want.

When it comes to any executive action, the President has take many
executive actions.  We’re going to continue to review that, but we’re
going con- — be cons- — consistent, right?  That — we need legislation. 
We need this to — we need legislation that can go into law to actually
deal with this broken system.  That’s what we want to see.

Q    Have you noticed a difference since the President spoke with
President López Obrador and agreed to take, you know, measures to
tighten the situation at the border?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I would s- —

Q    Is there any impact of that yet?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I would say that our diplomatic conversation, our
relationship with the President of Mexico has led to — to actions to
help mitigate what we’re seeing, obviously, in the region.  And there’s
always more actions to be taken. 

But we are — you know, we are — you know, that — we believe that
relationship certainly has led to — led to actions that is going to be
helpful.

But we need legislation here.  We need to see more.  We need to see
more.  And we’re appreciative of —

Q    But —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — of the President (inaudible).

Q    If that doesn’t happen, is there an EO?  Or do you think you don’t
have executive —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We’re just going to look at all of our options, as
always.  Just don’t have anything to share at this time.  And we’re
going to continue to pi- — push for that Senate bipartisan agreement and
get that — get that in the hands of the President so he can sign it.

Thanks, everybody.

Q    Thanks, Karine.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I got to sit down.

Q    Karine, is he taping the interview with — is he taping the Erin
Burnett in — in Wisconsin?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I believe so.  I believe so.

11:12 A.M. EDT
