---
date: '2024-05-08'
published_time: 2024-05-08 18:17:44-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/05/08/readout-of-white-house-celebration-of-womens-history/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of White\_House Celebration of Women\u2019s\_History"
---
 
Today, U.S. Secretary of the Interior Deb Haaland, Director of the
Gender Policy Council Jennifer Klein, and Chair of the Council on
Environmental Quality Brenda Mallory announced new actions to honor the
legacy and contributions of a diverse range of women and girls to our
country, and highlighted the Biden-Harris Administration’s efforts to
increase the representation of women’s history in sites across America.

These efforts include an [Executive
Order](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/03/27/executive-order-on-recognizing-and-honoring-womens-history/)
President Biden
[signed](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/03/28/fact-sheet-president-biden-signs-executive-order-to-strengthen-the-recognition-of-womens-history/)
in March 2024 to strengthen the National Park Service’s recognition of
women’s history. To advance this work, philanthropic partners announced:

-   A $1.3 million commitment from the Mellon Foundation to support the
    development of an inaugural Women’s History Theme Study, which will
    serve as a historical foundation for the National Park Service (NPS)
    to identify major topics and figures in women’s history to be
    considered for recognition at National Historic Landmarks, and
    inform efforts to preserve women’s history throughout the nation.
    This commitment is part of the Foundation’s $500 million [Monuments
    Project](https://www.mellon.org/article/the-monuments-project-initiative). 

<!-- -->

-   A $2 million commitment from the National Park Foundation that will
    help national parks tell a more inclusive and comprehensive story of
    American history. This investment will fund Inclusive Storytelling
    Grants, providing resources to document, preserve, and share
    important stories, including of women who have shaped our history
    and continue to shape our country.

Today’s event builds on continuing efforts across the Federal government
to recognize the role that women and girls play in shaping the American
story. In 2023, President Biden
[designated](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/07/25/fact-sheet-president-biden-designates-emmett-till-and-mamie-till-mobley-national-monument/)
the Emmett Till and Mamie Till-Mobley National Monument in Mississippi
and Illinois that honors the bravery of Mamie Till-Mobley in the wake of
her son’s brutal murder, which helped catalyze the Civil Rights
Movement. Recently, the National Park Service also
[designated](https://gcc02.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Flnks.gd%2Fl%2FeyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiJ9.eyJidWxsZXRpbl9saW5rX2lkIjoxMDIsInVyaSI6ImJwMjpjbGljayIsInVybCI6Imh0dHBzOi8vd3d3Lm5wcy5nb3Yvc3ViamVjdHMvbmF0aW9uYWxoaXN0b3JpY2xhbmRtYXJrcy9yZWNlbnQtbmhsLWRlc2lnbmF0aW9ucy5odG0iLCJidWxsZXRpbl9pZCI6IjIwMjQwMzI4LjkyNDgyMzgxIn0.0xgf4RnHhGprjYWJCjRA-zzma8WiSo71czh4ypA3Mc4%2Fs%2F1434048034%2Fbr%2F239713909287-l&data=05%7C02%7Ckate_kelly%40ios.doi.gov%7C8c45e676a978479d5ad008dc4ebe7510%7C0693b5ba4b184d7b9341f32f400a5494%7C0%7C0%7C638471827119803599%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C0%7C%7C%7C&sdata=jHvM7PFSbZeG5Nnbx0bLmHMajEi0%2FkqJK%2FrxqpCZI2w%3D&reserved=0)
sites significant to women’s history as National Historic Landmarks,
including Pond Farm Pottery in California, an arts community founded by
renowned ceramist Marguerite Wildenhain, and the Sam and Ruth Van Sickle
Ford House in Illinois, the home of Ruth Van Sickle Ford—the former
director and president of the Chicago Academy of Fine Arts. During the
Biden-Harris Administration, the National Park Service has invested more
than $19 million in infrastructure and preservation projects for parks
commemorating women across America. Additionally, the Department of the
Interior has awarded $2.1 million in Historic Preservation Fund grants
for sites that are helping to tell women’s history through programs
including [History of Equal
Rights](https://www.nps.gov/subjects/historicpreservationfund/history-of-equal-rights.htm#:~:text=Funded%20through%20the%20Historic%20Preservation,achieve%20equal%20rights%20in%20America.),
[Save America’s
Treasures](https://www.nps.gov/subjects/historicpreservationfund/save-americas-treasures-grants.htm),
[African American Civil
Rights](https://www.nps.gov/subjects/historicpreservationfund/african-american-civil-rights.htm),
and [Underrepresented
Communities](https://www.nps.gov/subjects/historicpreservationfund/underrepresented-community-grants.htm).

Today’s event convened Administration officials, prominent historians,
museum leaders, conservation leaders, members of the National Park
System Advisory Board, Members of Congress, and others who have led the
way in studying, recognizing, and amplifying women’s history. Speakers
included:

-   Deb Haaland, U.S. Secretary of the Interior

<!-- -->

-   Jennifer Klein, Assistant to the President and Director of the
    Gender Policy Council

<!-- -->

-   Brenda Mallory, Chair of the Council on Environmental Quality

<!-- -->

-   Dr. Elizabeth Alexander, President of the Mellon Foundation

<!-- -->

-   Lise Aangeenbrug, Chief Program Officer of the National Park
    Foundation

<!-- -->

-   Dr. Turkiya Lowe, Principal Historian of the National Park Service
    and Deputy Federal Preservation Officer

<!-- -->

-   Dr. Melanie Adams, Interim Director of the Smithsonian American
    Women’s History Museum

<!-- -->

-   Dr. Marvel Parker, Executive Director of Emmett Till and Mamie
    Till-Mobley Institute

<!-- -->

-   Dr. Carla Hayden, 14th Librarian of Congress

  
 

\###
