---
date: '2024-05-23'
modified_time: 2024-05-23 14:13:21-04:00
published_time: 2024-05-23 15:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/05/23/president-biden-announces-nominees/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces\_Nominees"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
the following individuals to serve in his administration:

-   Lauren McFerran, Nominee to be a Member of the National Labor
    Relations Board
-   William Isaac White, Nominee to be a Member of the Defense Nuclear
    Facilities Safety Board

<!-- -->

-   Stephanie E. Segal, Nominee to be United States Alternate Executive
    Director of the International Monetary Fund

Additionally, President Biden announced his intent to nominate the
following individuals to serve as Republican members of boards and
commissions that are required, by statute or longstanding practice, to
include bipartisan membership.

-   Joshua L. Ditelberg, Nominee to be a Member (Republican) of the
    National Labor Relations Board
-   Bethany Pickett Shah, Nominee to be a Member (Republican) of the
    State Justice Institute Board of Directors
-   Rebeccah L. Heinrichs, Nominee to be a Member (Republican) of the
    U.S. Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy

**<u>Lauren McFerran, Nominee to be a Member of the National Labor
Relations Board</u>**

Lauren McFerran was appointed as a Member of the National Labor
Relations Board in December 2014 and was designated Chair in 2021.

Previous to her appointment to the Board, McFerran served as Chief Labor
Counsel for the U.S. Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions (HELP) and had also served the Committee as Deputy Staff
Director under Senator Tom Harkin (D-IA). She began on the HELP
Committee as Senior Labor Counsel for Senator Ted Kennedy (D-MA). Before
her work in the U.S. Senate, McFerran was an associate at Bredhoff &
Kaiser, PLLC and served as a law clerk for Chief Judge Carolyn Dineen
King on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit. McFerran
received a B.A. from Rice University and a J.D. from Yale Law School. 

**<u>William Isaac White, Nominee to be a Member of the Defense Nuclear
Facilities Safety Board</u>**

William Isaac (“Ike”) White has led the U.S. Department of Energy’s
Office of Environmental Management since June 2019. He provides
leadership for the safe cleanup of the environmental legacy brought
about from five decades of nuclear weapons development and
government-sponsored nuclear energy research.

Under his leadership, the Office of Environmental Management made major
progress in liquid waste treatment systems, including beginning
operations at the Salt Waste Processing Facility at the Savannah River
Site, completing construction of the facilities supporting the Direct
Feed Low-Activity Waste Treatment approach, and beginning the first
large-scale treatment of radioactive and chemical tank waste at the
Tank-Side Cesium Removal System at Hanford. Additionally, at Oak Ridge,
demolition was completed at the East Tennessee Technology Park, making
it the first site in the world to remove an entire uranium enrichment
complex. At the Portsmouth Site, demolition of X-326 uranium process
building, a two-story structure covering 56 acres was a critical
achievement in the cleanup and transformation of the Gaseous Diffusion
Plant.

Prior to his current role, White served as the Chief of Staff and
Associate Principal Deputy Administrator for the National Nuclear
Security Administration (NNSA) where he served as the primary point of
contact within the Office of the Administrator for field office
managers, providing leadership and coordination on operational and
technical issues. Previously, White was the Deputy Associate
Administrator for Safety and Health where he enabled the NNSA mission in
the areas of nuclear and occupational safety, directly supporting the
Administrator and senior managers throughout the NNSA enterprise.
Earlier in his career, White served in a variety of leadership and
technical positions in NNSA and at the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety
Board focused on nuclear safety and operations.

White has a Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering from the
University of Mississippi and a Master of Science in Engineering from
the University of California, Berkeley.

**<u>Stephanie E. Segal, Nominee to be United States Alternate Executive
Director of the International Monetary Fund</u>**

Stephanie E. Segal has worked for three decades at the intersection of
economics, finance, and international development. As a senior fellow at
the Center for Strategic & International Studies her work focused on
economic competitiveness, U.S.-China economic relations, and the role of
the international financial institutions in fostering macroeconomic
stability, economic development, and private capital mobilization. Segal
is the author of numerous reports and articles and has testified before
both chambers of the U.S. Congress.

Until 2017, Segal served as Co-Director of the East Asia Office at the
U.S. Department of the Treasury. Prior to Treasury, she was Senior
Economist at the International Monetary Fund (IMF), where she covered a
range of emerging market and advanced country economies. Earlier in her
career, Segal served as an economist in the Western Hemisphere; South
and Southeast Asia; the International Monetary Policy offices at
Treasury; as an adviser to the U.S. Executive Director at the IMF; and
as an analyst and associate in Mergers and Acquisitions at J.P. Morgan
in New York, New York.

A native of Naperville, Illinois, Segal earned a bachelor’s degree from
the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and a master’s degree
from the Johns Hopkins University, School of Advanced International
Studies (SAIS). She lives in Washington, D.C. with her husband and three
daughters.

**<u>Joshua L. Ditelberg, Nominee to be a Member (Republican) of the
National Labor Relations Board</u>**

Joshua L. Ditelberg is a Partner at Seyfarth Shaw LLP in Chicago,
Illinois. Before joining Seyfarth Shaw, he practiced labor and
employment law at Edwards & Angell LP in Boston, Massachusetts. Prior to
entering private practice, Ditelberg was a law clerk to Honorable Ralph
B. Guy, Jr. of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit and to
Honorable Joseph R. Weisberger of the Rhode Island Supreme Court. He
received his J.D. *magna cum laude* from the University of Michigan Law
School and is a member of the Order of the Coif. He has a B.A. *summa
cum laude* and an M.A. from the University of Pennsylvania. While at
Penn, Ditelberg was a National Endowment for the Humanities Younger
Scholar, University Scholar, Benjamin Franklin Scholar and a member of
Phi Beta Kappa. Ditelberg is a former Adjunct Professor of Law at the
John Marshall Law School (now the University of Illinois at Chicago). He
is a Fellow of the College of Labor and Employment Lawyers and of the
American Bar Foundation. Ditelberg is Vice President and Past President
of the Chicago Chapter of the Labor and Employment Relations
Association. He has authored or edited numerous articles and books
addressing aspects of labor and employment law.

**<u>Bethany Pickett Shah, Nominee to be a Member (Republican) of the
State Justice Institute Board of Directors</u>**

Bethany Pickett Shah is an attorney with Jackson Walker LLP, where she
specializes in complex commercial litigation, government investigations,
and white-collar defense. Prior to private practice, she served as a
Special Assistant United States Attorney in the Eastern District of
Texas, where she represented the United States in criminal prosecutions
and civil litigation. Before becoming a prosecutor, Shah worked at the
White House as Deputy Associate Counsel to the President and at the
Department of Justice as a Counsel in the Civil Rights Division and
Counsel in the Office of Legal Policy. She is the recipient of several
awards for her service to the United States, including the Attorney
General’s Distinguished Service Award and the U.S. Attorney’s Office for
the Eastern District of Texas’s Dedicated Service Award. She has also
been appointed by the judges of the Eastern District of Texas to serve
on the district’s Magistrate Judge Merit Selection Panel. Shah is a
graduate of The King’s College and Northwestern University School of
Law. After law school, she clerked for the Honorable Edith H. Jones of
the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit.

**<u>Rebeccah L. Heinrichs, Nominee to be a Member (Republican) of the
U.S. Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy</u>**

Rebeccah L. Heinrichs is a senior fellow at the Washington, D.C. based
think tank Hudson Institute and the Director of its Keystone Defense
Initiative. She specializes in national defense and foreign policy.
Heinrichs served as a commissioner on the 2023 Congressional Commission
on the Strategic Posture of the United States. She is also a member of
the US Strategic Command Strategic Advisory Group and is a co-chair of
the Strategic Stability Working Group at the US Institute of Peace.

Heinrichs is the author of the forthcoming book *Duty to Deter: American
Nuclear Deterrence and the Just War Doctrine*, which will be published
by National Institute Press in the summer of 2024. She earned her
doctorate in Defense and Strategic Studies from Missouri State
University and was honored for outstanding academic achievement. She
received her M.A. in national security and strategic studies from the
U.S. Naval War College and graduated with the highest distinction from
its College of Naval Command and Staff. She earned her B.A. in History
and Political Science from Ashland University in Ohio, was an Ashbrook
Scholar, and serves as a member of the Ashbrook board.

Heinrichs is a longtime member of Capitol Hill Baptist Church, is a
proud native of rural Ohio, and lives in Virginia with her husband and
their five children.

\# \# \#
