---
date: '2024-05-30'
published_time: 2024-05-30 18:00:44-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/05/30/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-united-states-air-force-academy-class-of-2024-commencement-ceremony/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at United\_States Air Force Academy Class\
  \ of 2024 Commencement\_Ceremony"
---
 
*Falcon Stadium  
El Paso County, Colorado*

10:19 A.M. MDT  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.  Thank you.  (Applause.)  
  
     Good morning.  And congratulations to the cadets of Air Force
Academy Class of 2024.  (Applause.)  
  
     AUDIENCE:  Roy!  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  To Secretary Frank Kendall, General Chance
Saltzman, General David Allvin, Lieutenant General Richard Clark, and to
all the friends and loved ones and sponsor families of these
extraordinary graduates, thank you all for what you have done to support
them in this journey.  And, again, I applaud all that you have done
every day.  
  
In 2020, as a United States senator, it was my privilege to nominate
five cadets to this class: Lynlee Davis, Elizabeth Deards, Kyle Moats,
Noelle Mourani, and Jaricsa Vega.  (Applause.)    
  
And as Vice President, I know firsthand the excellence produced by this
academy.   
  
With me here with me today is Lieutenant Colonel Debra Starkey, Class of
2009, the first Space Force guardian to serve as Military Aide to the
Vice President; Lieutenant Colonel Zachary Fulton, Class of 2007; and
Major Anthony Navaroli, Class of 2013, who flew me here on Air Force
Two.  (Applause.)    
  
And since taking office, I have flown nearly 400,000 miles, across
continents, with the help of graduates of this very academy.  So, it is
my firsthand experience that this academy produces some of the greatest
pilots in the world.  (Applause.)  Indeed.  
  
Cadets, today you join generations of Americans who have graduated from
this extraordinary institution.  And let us reflect, then, on what that
has required of you.   
  
You survived Beast and Recognition, Triple Threats and Core Astro, and
many of you even made it through Sijan Hall.  (Laughter.)  Many.   
  
Together, you also celebrated victories at Acceptance Day and
Commitment, and at Ring Dance and Job Drops.  And, I am told, on
occasion, you did some celebrating off campus as well at Parkway —
(applause) — and at Dub House — (applause) — mostly, apparently, on
Thursdays.  (Laughter.)

And I am informed that if you came back a little late and missed DI or
if you were one of the cadets who decided to, quote, “borrow” the
superintendent’s license plate that today you could still have some
tours to march off.  (Laughter.)    
  
Well, and I think your parents and family would be happy to know, you
should know that I believe in the power of redemption.  So, to all whom
this applies, listen carefully: I hereby waive any confinements and
restrictions for minor violations of the cadet disciplinary system. 
(Applause.)  You’re welcome.  (Laughs.)  
  
Class of 2024 —  
  
AUDIENCE:  Roy!  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — four years ago, you arrived here as strangers. 
And today, you graduate as one class and one family, united in selfless
dedication to service and to our country.   
  
I believe there is no more noble work that one can do than to serve our
nation in uniform.  On behalf of our Commander-in-Chief, President Joe
Biden, and our entire nation, it is my honor to congratulate you on
taking your place in the Long Blue Line.  (Applause.)    
  
Today — today, you join the United States Joint Force, our sword and
shield.  
  
Today, you join the ranks of the United States military, warriors who
possess extraordinary skill, discipline, and dedication.   
  
Today, you join the greatest fighting force the world has ever seen. 
(Applause.)  
  
Next month, we mark the 80th anniversary of D-Day, that shining moment
of Allied bravery and sacrifice made possible because of America’s air
power. 

     In the months leading up to the landings, it was our pilots, our
planes, and our air crews that knocked the enemy from the sky.  It was
America’s forces in the air that bombed train tracks and fuel depots to
prevent Nazi reinforcements from reaching the frontlines and helped
defeat tyranny and fascism in Europe.   
  
Eighty years ago, over the beaches of Normandy, America won control of
the skies, and we have kept it ever since.   
  
From air-to-air combat over the Korean Peninsula to providing close air
support in Vietnam, from our dominance in Desert Storm and the Balkans
to Iraq and Afghanistan, America’s record of air and space superiority
has been unmatched and unbroken.   
  
And today, around the world, our allies are in awe and our adversaries
in fear of America’s dominance in the air.   
  
We see it on NATO’s eastern flank, where our air patrols deter Putin
from <s>extanding</s> \[extending\] and expanding his war of
aggression.   
  
We see it in Ukraine, where our weapon deliveries and missile warnings
help the people of Ukraine defend their homes and homeland, their
sovereignty and territorial integrity.   
  
We see it in the Indo-Pacific, where our presence ensures a free and
open region.   
  
We see it in space, where America’s military watchful eye protects and
supports our forces.   
  
And we see it in the Middle East, where, last month, when Iran launched
an unprecedented attack on Israel, it was our air and space forces that
mounted an unprecedented defense along with our allies and partners. 
More than 300 drones, cruise missiles, and ballistic missiles were fired
at Israel.  And thanks to our airmen and guardians, 99 percent of those
threats did not hit their target.   
  
Cadets — (applause) — as it has been for generations, America’s national
security and global stability depend on our strength in the sky and
space.  And as officers, our nation is counting on you to preserve and
extend that strength, including, I will add, through your ability to
innovate.   
  
Since the days of Kitty Hawk, the United States has led the world in
aerospace innovation: the first modern drone, the first GPS satellite,
the first stealth aircraft.   
  
And you are uniquely positioned to carry on this legacy of innovation. 
Because, after all, your generation grew up online. 

     Technology that might be unfamiliar or intimidating — maybe to some
people on this stage; I don’t know — but to previous generations is
intuitive and even exciting to you.  
  
Here at the Academy, it is you that built aircraft designed to
neutralize drones, you who learned how to use AI to protect military
technology in space.  And as a point of personal pride, as Chair of the
National Space Council, I was particularly proud to learn that, last
November, you designed, built, and launched your own satellite,
FalconS-X — -SAT-X.  (Applause.)  FalconSAT-X.  
  
And I am confident that as the nature of warfare changes, you will make
sure that no one will ever match, <s>must</s> \[much\] less exceed,
America’s military power.   
  
As you innovate and shape our future, be guided, then, by the
foundational beliefs that have defined our nation for centuries.    
  
Today, is not only a graduation; it is a commissioning.  In a few
moments, you will take an oath — not to a person, not to a political
party, but to the Constitution; an oath to “support and defend the
Constitution of the United States against all enemies, foreign and
domestic”; an oath to uphold our nation’s highest ideals of liberty,
equality, and justice and to preserve and protect our democracy.  
  
This tradition goes back to the founding of our nation.  And even in a
world of continuous change, this oath — well, it remains constant.  And
I am confident that both in and out of uniform, this oath and the ideals
it represents will guide you in all that you do.   
  
Class of 2024 —  
  
AUDIENCE:  Roy!  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — I will conclude with this.  As 4 degrees, as has
been mentioned, you chose an exemplar to inspire and guide you: Mayor —
Major, excuse me, LeRoy Homer, Jr., a 1987 graduate of this academy and
First Officer of United Flight 93 on September 11th, 2001. 

     As has been said, Major Homer was a true American hero who gave his
life to protect our country.    
  
And here today, as my honored guests, I’ve invited Major Homer’s wife,
Melodie, and daughter, Laurel, to join us.  And, Melodie and Laurel,
thank you for all your family has done to serve our nation. 
(Applause.)  
  
So, looking out at these cadets, we know Major Homer’s vision and his
spirit lives on.    
  
And, graduates, then, finally, I will say: Wherever you go from here,
you are ready.  You all are ready.  You have the skills; you have the
knowledge and the strength of character to meet any challenge.  You are
warriors.  You have dedicated yourselves to the service of our
nation.   
  
And America’s security relies on you.  I know you will make our country
proud.   
  
And as your Vice President, it is my profound honor to congratulate you
on this tremendous accomplishment and to soon address you as graduates
of the United States Air Force Academy.   
  
God bless you.  And God bless the United States of America.  
  
Thank you.  (Applause.)  
  
END                 10:34 A.M. MDT

\# \# \#
