---
date: '2024-05-14'
modified_time: 2024-05-14 08:34:03-04:00
published_time: 2024-05-14 08:34:02-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/05/14/fact-sheet-the-biden-harris-administration-highlights-investments-in-rural-america-invites-public-nominations-for-rural-innovators-initiative/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: The Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Highlights Investments in\
  \ Rural America, Invites Public Nominations for Rural Innovators\_Initiative"
---
 
Today, the Biden-Harris Administration will host a *Rural Communities in
Action* event at the White House to highlight how the Administration is
investing in rural communities. White House Domestic Policy Advisor
Neera Tanden, White House Office of Public Engagement Director Stephen
Benjamin, Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack, and Transportation
Secretary Pete Buttigieg will provide remarks that highlight how the
President’s Investing in America agenda is ensuring rural Americans do
not have to leave their hometowns to find opportunity. The *Rural
Communities in Action* event can be
viewed [here](https://youtube.com/live/UpBJdyGrtlg).  
  
As part of this event, the Biden-Harris Administration is announcing a
new [Rural Innovators
Initiative](https://www.rural.gov/rural-innovators-initiative) to
highlight stories of extraordinary rural leaders who are taking action
and ensuring their communities thrive for generations to come. The
Biden-Harris Administration invites nominations from the public for
Rural Innovators who are making a positive impact in their rural
communities. The nomination form will close on Friday, June 14 at
midnight EDT, and selected individuals will be recognized later this
year.  
  
The Biden-Harris Administration is also announcing over $671 million in
new investments to strengthen rural infrastructure across the country.
These investments will improve access to reliable electricity and clean
drinking water for more than one million people and create good-paying
jobs in rural communities.  
  
Today’s *Rural Communities in Action* event builds on the [Investing in
Rural America Regional Event
Series](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/02/21/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-launches-investing-in-rural-america-regional-event-series-to-highlight-how-the-president-is-delivering-for-rural-communities/).
Throughout this year, Senior Administration Officials are traveling to
rural communities across the country to highlight how the Biden-Harris
Administration is investing in rural America to create opportunity for
farmers, families, and communities. These investments include:  
  
**Investing in Rural American Infrastructure**  
  
The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law is investing billions of dollars to
revitalize and rebuild rural communities across the country – a
generational investment in rural America. This funding also represents
the single largest investment in Tribal infrastructure ever.  
  
The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law provides $65 billion to ensure every
American has access to affordable, reliable high-speed internet through
a historic investment in infrastructure deployment. That includes a $2
billion program at the Department of Commerce to invest in high-speed
internet on Tribal lands. USDA has invested $3.9 billion in 333 projects
that will expand access to high-speed broadband and bring new economic
opportunities and a better quality of life for more than 622,000 people
(247,000 households) through its [ReConnect
Program](https://www.usda.gov/reconnect).  
  
The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law also provides a historic $8.25 billion
investment to reduce wildfire risks for communities, better detect
wildfires, and institute workforce reforms and landmark pay increases
for federal wildland firefighters. Through the [Community Wildfire
Defense Grant
program](https://gcc02.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.fs.usda.gov%2Fmanaging-land%2Ffire%2Fgrants&data=05%7C02%7Clarry.moore%40usda.gov%7C8928160075b94d6dc86008dc6eed80c8%7Ced5b36e701ee4ebc867ee03cfa0d4697%7C1%7C0%7C638507213553359665%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C0%7C%7C%7C&sdata=oyp3IS1jIRhOJN8afnQsIwuMpPbstVJpQMlwCiEowzU%3D&reserved=0),
USDA has awarded $439 million to 257 project proposals across 36 states
and 16 tribes, which will assist with planning for and mitigating
wildfire risks. USDA is also investing [$150
million](https://www.usda.gov/media/press-releases/2023/08/22/biden-harris-administration-invests-150m-connect-underserved-and) to
help underserved and small acreage forest landowners connect to emerging
voluntary climate markets, which can provide economic opportunities for
landowners and incentivize improved forest health and management.  
  
Additionally, the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law invests billions of
dollars to make sure rural families can get where they need to go,
including through a $4.1 billion investment in Rural Area Formula Grants
at the Department of Transportation. This program will support 1,300
rural transit systems by enabling them to purchase transit vehicles and
infrastructure, plan transit more effectively, and fund operations. The
Department of Transportation is also providing $2 billion over 5 years
in dedicated funding to projects in rural areas that improve and expand
the surface transportation infrastructure to increase connectivity,
improve the safety and reliability of the movement of people and
freight, and generate regional economic growth and improve quality of
life.  
  
**Delivering Clean, Reliable Water to Rural America**  
  
The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law’s transformative over $50 billion
investment in our water and wastewater infrastructure is fundamentally
changing the quality of life for millions of people in rural America by
replacing lead pipes, providing critical access to sanitation, ensuring
access to affordable clean drinking water, and tackling drought. That
includes a $3.5 billion investment through the Indian Health Service
which has already launched over 700 projects to build out a safe supply
of drinking water, reliable sewage systems, and waste disposal
facilities across Indian Country.  
  
EPA and USDA, in collaboration with states and Tribal Nations, are
working together on the [Closing America’s Wastewater Access
Gap](https://www.epa.gov/water-infrastructure/closing-americas-wastewater-access-gap) initiative.
This partnership leverages technical assistance resources to help
historically underserved communities identify and pursue federal funding
opportunities to address their rural wastewater needs. The first phase
supported 11 communities and has since expanded to include an additional
150 communities nationwide.  
  
The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law is also cleaning up pollution in rural
areas by investing $4.7 billion to plug, remediate, and restore
dangerous orphaned oil and gas wells across the country; nearly $11.3
billion to create good-paying jobs, including union jobs, and catalyze
economic opportunity by reclaiming abandoned mine lands; and $3.5
billion that has been allocated to 95 previously unfunded Superfund site
projects, including the longstanding backlog of projects, to clean up
contaminated sites and advance environmental justice.  
  
In addition, the Biden-Harris Administration is leading
a [whole-of-government
effort](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/04/06/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-new-investments-to-protect-the-colorado-river-system/) to
make Western communities more resilient to climate change and the
ongoing megadrought by harnessing the full resources of the President’s
historic Investing in America agenda. The Inflation Reduction Act and
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law together include $15.4 billion to enhance
the West’s resilience to drought through water-saving projects and other
conservation efforts.  
  
**Lowering Energy Costs and Strengthening the Grid**  
  
Supported by President Biden’s Inflation Reduction Act, the [Empowering
Rural America (New ERA)
program](https://www.rd.usda.gov/programs-services/electric-programs/empowering-rural-america-new-era-program) is
the largest investment in rural America’s electric system since
President Franklin Delano Roosevelt signed the Rural Electrification Act
in 1936. It invests $9.7 billion to help member-owned rural electric
cooperatives provide their communities with clean, reliable, and
affordable energy. The [Powering Affordable Clean Energy (PACE)
program](https://www.rd.usda.gov/programs-services/electric-programs/powering-affordable-clean-energy-pace-program) will
fund new clean energy and energy storage projects to make it more
affordable for rural Americans to use clean, reliable energy to heat and
cool their homes, run their businesses, and power their cars, schools,
and hospitals. In March 2024, USDA announced the first 5 projects
totaling $139 million. The [Rural Energy for America (REAP)
program](https://www.rd.usda.gov/programs-services/energy-programs/rural-energy-america-program-renewable-energy-systems-energy-efficiency-improvement-guaranteed-loans) –
which received a $2 billion boost through the Inflation Reduction Act –
is also helping farms and small businesses invest in renewable energy
and energy efficiency improvements that will lower their energy costs,
generate new income, and strengthen the resilience of their operations.
USDA has provided over $500 million in grants to thousands of projects
through this Inflation Reduction Act funding so far.  
  
The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law invests billions of dollars to improve
resilience, reliability, safety, and availability of energy in rural
America. Earlier this year, the Department of Energy (DOE) announced
$366 million for 17 projects across 20 states and 30 Tribal Nations and
communities to accelerate clean energy deployment in rural and remote
areas across the country through the [Energy Improvements in Rural or
Remote Areas (ERA) Program](https://www.energy.gov/oced/era). DOE
announced up to $475 million in March 2024 for 5 projects in Arizona,
Kentucky, Nevada, Pennsylvania, and West Virginia to accelerate clean
energy deployment on current and former mine land. The selected projects
cover a range of clean energy technologies, from solar, microgrids, and
pumped storage hydropower to geothermal and battery energy storage
systems.  
  
Last year, DOE announced nearly $3.5 billion through the [Grid
Resilience and Innovation Partnerships (GRIP)
Program](https://www.energy.gov/gdo/grid-resilience-and-innovation-partnerships-grip-program) to
strengthen grid reliability and resilience across 44 states, including
several major rural grid resilience projects. This funding is spurring
private investment, bringing public-private investment to $8 billion to
deliver affordable, clean electricity to all Americans and ensure that
communities across the nation have a reliable grid that is prepared for
extreme weather worsened by the climate crisis.  
  
In March 2024, the first round of funding from the Bureau of Indian
Affairs’ [Tribal Electrification
Program](https://www.bia.gov/news/biden-harris-administration-announces-72-million-presidents-investing-america-agenda-electrify#:~:text=This%20first%20round%20of%20funding%20from%20the%20Office,retrofitting%20necessary%20to%20install%20the%20zero-emissions%20energy%20systems.) provided
$72 million in financial and technical assistance to 21 Tribes to
connect homes to transmission and distribution that is powered by clean
energy, provide electricity to unelectrified Tribal homes through
zero-emissions energy systems, transition electrified Tribal homes to
zero-emissions energy systems, and support associated home repairs and
retrofitting. The program will also support clean energy workforce
development opportunities in Indian Country.  
  
The Environmental Protection Agency’s [Greenhouse Gas Reduction
Fund](https://www.epa.gov/greenhouse-gas-reduction-fund) (GGRF) is a $27
billion investment through the Inflation Reduction Act to combat the
climate crisis by mobilizing financing and private capital for clean
energy and climate solutions across sectors in communities across the
country, including rural communities. One of the awardees for the Clean
Communities Investment Accelerator, one of the three GGF programs, is
Appalachian Community Capital, which is launching the Green Bank for
Rural America to deliver clean capital and capacity building assistance
to hundreds of community lenders working in coal, energy, underserved
rural, and Tribal communities across the country.  
  
And, by expanding the availability of homegrown biofuels, the
Biden-Harris Administration is strengthening our energy independence
while bringing good-paying jobs and other economic benefits to rural
communities. For example, up to $500 million from the Inflation
Reduction Act is being made available through the [Higher Blends
Infrastructure Incentive
Program](https://www.usda.gov/media/press-releases/2023/06/26/biden-harris-administration-announces-funding-homegrown-biofuels) to
increase the availability of domestic biofuels and give Americans
additional, cleaner fuel options at the pump. Through this program, USDA
has provided $135 million in grants so far.  
  
**Improving Access to Health Care and Lowering Health Care Costs for
Rural Communities**  
  
The Biden-Harris Administration is lowering health care costs for rural
Americans and supporting access to high quality care in rural America. 
Rural seniors are seeing [lower drug
costs](https://aspe.hhs.gov/reports/ira-research-series-projected-impacts-rural-medicare-enrollees) thanks
to the Inflation Reduction Act. About 281,000 rural Part D Medicare
enrollees would have benefitted from the $35 insulin cap if it had been
in effect in 2020, and about 481,000 rural enrollees would have
benefitted from $0 recommended adult vaccines if it had been in effect
in 2021. About 289,000 rural enrollees are projected to save $1,000 or
more when the $2,000 out-of-pocket cap goes into effect in 2025. Nearly
3 million rural Americans signed up for 2024 coverage at the Affordable
Care Act’s HealthCare.gov Marketplace. Eighty percent of consumers could
find health plans for $10 or less a month, with many qualifying for
plans with $0 premiums. In addition, four states have expanded Medicaid
since President Biden took office, providing coverage to over one
million Americans while reducing the risk of rural hospital closure by
half.   
  
The Biden-Harris Administration has launched the new Rural Emergency
Hospital designation to provide a new option to some struggling
hospitals, and it is investing in training the next generation of health
care providers to serve rural communities. The Department of Health and
Human Services (HHS) has also extended several grant opportunities to
support rural communities, including $28 million to provide direct
health services and expand infrastructure and $16 million to provide
technical assistance to rural hospitals facing financial distress.
Recognizing the critical role nurses play in providing primary care,
mental health and maternal health care services, particularly in rural
areas,
HHS [announced](https://www.hhs.gov/about/news/2023/08/10/biden-harris-administration-announces-100-million-grow-nursing-workforce.html) more
than $100 million in awards to address the increasing demand for
registered nurses, nurse practitioners, certified nurse midwives and
nurse faculty. Through the [Rural Residency Planning and Development
Program](https://www.hrsa.gov/rural-health/grants/rural-health-research-policy/rrpd),
HHS has invested over $28 million in awards across 25 states to create
new rural residency programs to train more physicians in rural
communities, which increases the likelihood of practicing in a rural
community.

HHS’ [Rural Communities Opioid Response
Program](https://www.hrsa.gov/rural-health/opioid-response) is a
multi-year initiative that has invested $298 million in 386 awards to
reduce the morbidity and mortality of substance use disorder (SUD),
including opioid use disorder, in rural communities at the highest risk
for SUD. Through the [Rural Emergency Medical Services Training
Program](https://www.samhsa.gov/grants/grant-announcements/ti-23-011),
HHS has invested $20.5 million since the start of the Biden-Harris
Administration to support the recruitment and training of EMS personnel
in rural areas with a focus on addressing SUD and co-occurring disorders
(COD) substance use and mental disorders.   
  
**Supporting Veterans in Rural Communities**  
  
The Biden-Harris Administration is delivering more benefits to more
veterans than ever before. With enactment of the PACT Act, the
Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) has been able to expand the types of
conditions that are considered service connected making it easier for
toxic exposed veterans to get the disability benefits they deserve. PACT
Act also expanded who is eligible to enroll in VA health care and
required new toxic exposure screenings for all veterans enrolled. These
expansions are helping to meet the needs of the over 4.4 million
veterans who live in rural areas. VA also expanded its [Connected
Care](https://connectedcare.va.gov/) program, enabling more telehealth
delivery for rural veterans than ever before.  
  
**Creating New and Better Agricultural Markets to Increase
Competition**  
  
As part of the Biden-Harris Administration’s [Action Plan for a Fairer,
More Competitive, and More Resilient Meat and Poultry Supply
Chain](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/01/03/fact-sheet-the-biden-harris-action-plan-for-a-fairer-more-competitive-and-more-resilient-meat-and-poultry-supply-chain/),
USDA invested $583 million in expanding meat and poultry processing
capacity, $275 million to strengthen the food supply chain and create
opportunities for small businesses and entrepreneurs in rural
communities through the Meat and Poultry Intermediary Lending Program,
and $48.1 million to support Indigenous Animals processing grants. These
investments are giving farmers more market options and fairer prices by
spurring competition. These investments are also providing consumers
with more choices and affordable prices at the grocery store.  
  
Through the [Fertilizer Production Expansion
Program](https://www.usda.gov/media/press-releases/2023/10/16/usda-highlights-progress-partnering-farmers-increase-innovative),
USDA has made $900 million available to boost innovative domestic
fertilizer production, help lower costs for farmers, and create jobs in
rural communities. USDA has awarded more than $168 million to support 40
projects.  
  
USDA has also finalized rules to [protect farmers and
ranchers](https://www.ams.usda.gov/rules-regulations/unfair-practices-violation-packers-and-stockyards-act) from
discrimination, retaliation, and deception; make [poultry
markets](https://www.ams.usda.gov/rules-regulations/transparency-poultry-grower-contracting-and-tournaments) more
transparent; and ensure that meat, poultry, and eggs labeled [“Product
of
USA”](https://www.usda.gov/media/press-releases/2024/03/11/usda-finalizes-voluntary-product-usa-label-claim-enhance-consumer) match
consumers’ expectations. USDA has also been working to support farmers
in navigating the [seed patent
process](https://www.usda.gov/media/press-releases/2023/07/19/usda-launches-historic-partnership-bipartisan-state-attorneys) and
give farmers a greater voice.  
  
**Investing in Climate-Smart Agriculture**  
  
Through the [Partnerships for Climate-Smart
Commodities](https://www.usda.gov/climate-solutions/climate-smart-commodities) initiative,
USDA is investing more than $3.1 billion for 141 projects that seek to
build and expand market opportunities for American commodities produced
using climate-smart practices. The Inflation Reduction Act provided
a [record $19.5 billion for USDA conservation
programs](https://www.usda.gov/media/press-releases/2023/09/19/usda-sees-record-interest-conservation-and-clean-energy-programs) to
support hundreds of thousands of farmers and ranchers apply practices
such as cover cropping, conservation tillage, wetland restoration,
prescribed grazing, nutrient management, tree planting, and more to
millions of acres of land. This has direct climate mitigation benefits
and advances a host of other environmental co-benefits, in addition to
offering farmers, ranchers and foresters new revenue streams. The
climate-smart agriculture investments that USDA has made and continues
to make are estimated to support over 180,000 farms and over 225 million
acres in the next 5 years.  
  
**Strengthening Local and Regional Food Systems**  
  
The Biden-Harris Administration is investing in local and regional food
systems, which adds value for both agricultural producers and consumers,
and spurs economic activity locally — helping communities that have been
left behind by the current agricultural models and supporting
good-paying jobs throughout the supply chain. USDA created [twelve
Regional Food Business
Centers](https://www.usda.gov/media/press-releases/2023/05/03/usda-announces-finalists-twelve-new-usda-regional-food-business) across
the country that are providing coordination, technical assistance and
capacity building to help farmers, ranchers and food businesses reach
local customers and navigate federal state and local resources. USDA is
also investing $300 million through the [Organic Transition
Initiative](https://www.farmers.gov/your-business/organic/organic-transition-initiative) to
support farmers in transitioning to organic and build and strengthen
organic markets so more farmers can participate.  
  
To support Tribal Nations’ food and agriculture supply chain resiliency,
USDA invested $48.1 million in meat and poultry processing
infrastructure for indigenous animals such as bison, reindeer or salmon.
In October 2023, USDA also launched a new,
interagency [pilot](https://www.usda.gov/media/press-releases/2023/10/12/usda-invests-bison-purchase-pilot-incorporating-indian-country) to
purchase bison meat from Tribal and local bison operations for Tribal
communities through the Food Distribution Program on Indian Reservations
(FDPIR).  
  
**Improving Nutrition and Food Access for Rural Communities**  
  
President
Biden [set](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/05/04/white-house-announces-conference-on-hunger-nutrition-and-health-in-september/) a
bold goal of ending hunger and reducing diet-related diseases in the
U.S. by 2030—all while reducing disparities. Through the [Healthy Meals
Incentives Initiative](https://www.fns.usda.gov/school-meals/hmi), USDA
has awarded nearly $30 million in grants to small and rural communities
to improve the nutritional quality of school meals and help modernize
their operations. Each small and/or rural school district will receive
up to $150,000 to support them in improving the nutritional quality of
their meals and modernizing their operations through innovative staff
training programs, kitchen updates and renovations, redesigning food
preparation and service spaces, or other school-district led efforts to
support school meals and school nutrition professionals.  
  
This year, USDA’s summer nutrition programs can reach more kids than
ever before. In addition to traditional in-person summer meal sites,
summer meal operators in rural communities will have the option to
provide children who live in rural areas with meals via grab-and-go or
delivery through the [Non-Congregate Summer Meal
Service](https://www.fns.usda.gov/sfsp/non-congregate). And, through
the [Summer Electronic Benefit Transfer Program for Children (Summer
EBT)](https://www.fns.usda.gov/sebt/household), children in low-income
families in participating states, territories, and Tribes will receive
$120 per eligible child for the summer in the form of pre-loaded cards
that families can use to purchase groceries.  
  
USDA has also expanded online purchasing with Supplemental Nutrition
Assistance Program (SNAP) benefits to be available in all 50 states and
the District of Columbia. This expansion represents a major milestone in
the history of SNAP and continues to provide greater convenience and
access to healthy food options for tens of millions of Americans,
including in remote and rural areas.  
  
**Cutting Housing Costs, Boosting Supply, and Expanding Access to
Affordable Housing in Rural America**  
  
The [Biden-Harris Housing Supply Action
Plan](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/05/16/president-biden-announces-new-actions-to-ease-the-burden-of-housing-costs/) includes
legislative and administrative actions that will help close America’s
housing supply shortfall. When aligned with other policies to reduce
housing costs and ensure affordability, such as rental assistance and
down payment assistance, closing the gap will mean more affordable rents
and more attainable homeownership for Americans in every community,
including rural communities.  
  
In April 2024,
USDA [announced](https://www.rd.usda.gov/newsroom/news-release/usda-announces-48-million-available-new-construction-alleviate-shortage-safe-and-affordable-farm#:~:text=Today%2C%20Under%20Secretary%20Gooden%20announced%20%2448%20million%20in,Housing%20Program%20and%20the%20On-Farm%20Labor%20Housing%20Program.) $48
million available to alleviate the shortage of safe and affordable farm
labor housing through new construction, aiding local farms and
businesses in remaining competitive while enhancing the lives of working
families. Within the $25 billion guaranteed lending level for qualified
low to moderate rural residents available in 2024, USDA is able to fully
promote its Construction to Permanent option within this program that
allows approved lenders and homebuilders participating in the Single
Family Housing Guaranteed Loan program to close both construction and
permanent financing at the same time and receive a loan note guarantee
before construction begins.  
  
In 2023, HUD invested $225 million in competitive grant funding for the
preservation and revitalization of manufactured housing and eligible
manufactured housing communities. [The Preservation and Reinvestment
Initiative for Community
Enhancement](https://www.hud.gov/program_offices/comm_planning/price) (PRICE)
supports communities in their efforts to maintain, protect, and
stabilize manufactured housing and manufactured housing communities. 
More than 22 million Americans currently live-in manufactured housing,
which account for approximately fifteen percent of occupied housing
stock in rural areas.  
  
**Strengthening Rural Workforce Development**  
  
In April 2024, the Department of Labor (DOL) announced the availability
of $44.2 million for the fifth round of [Workforce Opportunities for
Rural Communities
(WORC)](https://www.dol.gov/agencies/eta/dislocated-workers/grants/workforce-opportunity) grants.
The WORC Initiative, which is a partnership between DOL, the Appalachian
Regional Commission, the Delta Regional Authority, and the Northern
Border Regional Commission, provides grant funds to enable rural
communities to develop local and regional workforce development
solutions aligned with existing economic development strategies and
community partnerships to promote new, sustainable job opportunities and
long-term economic vitality. New for this round, the funding opportunity
specifically encourages applicants who are part of the Rural Partners
Network.  
  
**Supporting Access to Higher Education and Career Pathways**  
  
In December 2023, the Department of
Education [announced](https://www.ed.gov/news/press-releases/biden-harris-administration-awards-445-million-improve-postsecondary-education-access-and-completion-students-rural-communities) $44.5
million in grants to 22 institutions of higher education to improve
rates of postsecondary education enrollment, persistence, and completion
among students in rural communities. The Rural Postsecondary & Economic
Development Grant Program promotes high-quality career pathways aligned
to high-skill, high-wage, and in-demand industry sectors and occupations
in the region. This builds on the Biden-Harris Administration’s
commitment to students in rural America to have access to career
pathways and higher education opportunities that lead to good-paying
jobs right in their own communities.  
  
**Lowering Child Care Costs and Supporting Child Care Providers in Rural
America**  
  
President Biden secured the largest one-time investment this country has
ever made in child care through his American Rescue Plan. Those funds
helped 225,000 child care providers stay open so that the parents of
more than 10 million children could go to work with peace of mind. A
third of providers reported they would have closed permanently without
these relief funds. More than 8-in-10 licensed child care centers
nationwide received ARP assistance and it benefited 30,000 rural child
care programs – in most states, 97% of rural counties or more received
aid.  
  
President Biden is also working to build the supply of child care in
underserved areas, such as rural areas. Recently, the Department of
Health & Human Services (HHS) issued a final rule to improve the Child
Care & Development Block Grant program, which helps the families of more
than 1.3 million children afford child care. Through its rule and for
the first time, HHS will require that all states provide resources to
build the supply of care in underserved geographic areas.  
  
**Partnering with Rural Communities to Create Jobs and Support Rural-led
Economic Development**  
  
Launched in April 2022, the Rural Partners Network (RPN) is an
all-of-government program that partners with rural people to access
resources and funding to create local jobs, build infrastructure, and
support long-term economic stability on their own terms. RPN staff on
the ground are now supporting 36 [community
networks](https://gcc02.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.rural.gov%2Fcommunity-networks&data=05%7C01%7C%7Ca37283e452f8408a532e08db56334ceb%7Ced5b36e701ee4ebc867ee03cfa0d4697%7C0%7C0%7C638198551092283397%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C3000%7C%7C%7C&sdata=bNx5C8APFh8ejD97GdrNTasaHErdcJgUY6MNuTDHxXc%3D&reserved=0) in
10 states and Puerto Rico. Since its inception, the federal government
has invested nearly $3 billion in RPN communities to support critical
infrastructure, economic development, housing, and other priorities.  
  
In February 2021, President Biden established the [Interagency Working
Group on Coal and Power Plant Communities and Economic
Revitalization](https://energycommunities.gov/) (Energy Communities IWG)
to identify and deliver resources to the coal, oil and gas, and power
plant communities that have powered our country for generations. Since
then, member agencies have helped drive nearly $18 billion in federal
investment to these communities. The Energy Communities IWG has
launched [Rapid Response
Teams](https://energycommunities.gov/technical-assistance/rapid-response-teams/) across
the country to establish a network of assistance that is focused and
sustainable in a community or region.  
  
In addition, the Department of Transportation’s [Thriving Communities
Program](https://www.transportation.gov/grants/thriving-communities) is
providing planning, technical assistance, and capacity building support
to underserved and under-resourced communities, including rural
communities.  
  
With funding from the American Rescue Plan, the Department of Commerce
has launched several place-based programs to connect people to good
paying jobs and help once left-behind communities leverage regional
assets, including rural communities. The Build Back Better Regional
Challenge awarded 21 regional coalitions a total of $1 billion to
transform their regional economies through growing a local industry
sector. These awardees span 236 rural counties such as community-led
coalitions based in the coalfields of [Southern West
Virginia](https://www.eda.gov/funding/programs/american-rescue-plan/build-back-better/finalists/coalfield-development). [The
Good Jobs
Challenge](https://www.eda.gov/arpa/good-job-challenge)[awarded $500
million to 32 regional workforce
training](https://www.eda.gov/sites/default/files/2022-08/Good-Jobs-Challenge-Announcement-Awardee-Fact-Sheet.pdf) systems
across the country. At least 19 of these 32 awardees serve rural areas,
including a project to address the housing crisis on the [Pine Ridge
Reservation in South
Dakota](https://www.eda.gov/funding/programs/american-rescue-plan/good-jobs-challenge/awardees/Lakota-Funds).
The Department of Commerce also awarded [$100 million from the
Indigenous Communities
Program](https://www.eda.gov/funding/programs/american-rescue-plan/indigenous-communities),
all of which primarily serve rural communities, and [$500 million from
the Economic Adjustment Assistance
Program](https://www.eda.gov/funding/programs/american-rescue-plan/economic-adjustment-assistance),
two-thirds of which primarily serve rural communities, to support
economic development needs such as enabling infrastructure and workforce
development.    
  
Additionally, authorized by President Biden’s CHIPS and Science Act, the
Department of Commerce’s [Regional Innovation and Technology Hubs
program](https://www.eda.gov/funding/programs/regional-technology-and-innovation-hubs) has [designated
31
communities](https://www.eda.gov/sites/default/files/2023-10/EDA_TECH_HUBS_Phase_1_Fact_Sheet.pdf) across
the country as “Tech Hubs” that will bring together private industry,
state and local government, higher education, labor unions, nonprofit
institutions, and other critical stakeholders to develop and grow
innovative industries that stimulate economic growth, create jobs, and
strengthen national security. Nearly three-quarters of Tech Hubs
designees encompass small and rural areas.  
  
Also authorized by the CHIPS and Science Act, the Department of
Commerce’s $200 million [Distressed Area Recompete Pilot
Program](https://www.eda.gov/funding/programs/recompete-pilot-program) (“Recompete”)
aims to address persistent economic distress in communities across the
country through a series of highly targeted, transformational
investments. Seven of the 22 program finalists focus exclusively on
rural communities, and their proposed investments include workforce
skill training, addressing childcare deserts in rural America,
supporting small businesses, and building local capacity.

\###
