---
date: '2024-05-04'
published_time: 2024-05-04 12:54:56-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/05/04/readout-of-white-house-state-workforce-day-convening/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of White\_House State Workforce Day\_Convening"
---
 
Yesterday, the Biden-Harris Administration convened state leaders—along
with representatives from workforce policy and advocacy organizations,
unions, federal agencies, and other stakeholders—to discuss states’
efforts to expand investments in students and workers that lead to good
jobs in high-demand sectors. President Biden’s historic Investing in
America agenda—including the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, CHIPS and
Science Act, Inflation Reduction Act, and American Rescue Plan—is
creating strong demand for skilled workers in clean energy,
biotechnology, advanced manufacturing, semiconductors, and more. To meet
this demand for skilled workers, states are leveraging federal funds and
taking bold and innovative actions—from launching free or low-cost
community college programs; to expanding earn-and-learn job training
opportunities, such as registered apprenticeship programs; to investing
a share of their highway formula funds in high-quality workforce
development, including supportive services such as child care and
transportation. First Lady Jill Biden, a community college educator,
continues to travel the country to highlight models that invest in
workforce training, career-connected learning programs, and pathways to
good-paying jobs.

At yesterday’s convening, senior Administration officials including
Neera Tanden, Director of the Domestic Policy Council and Mala Adiga,
Deputy Assistant to the President and Director of Policy for the First
Lady, heard from leaders representing a dozen states about model
programs to lower costs, expand quality job training for students and
workers, and better connect education and workforce systems; how they
are braiding together federal and state investments; and how the
Biden-Harris Administration can continue to support states’ efforts. For
example, participants heard about Michigan’s expansion of free community
college; Maryland’s workforce development investments using federal
highway funds; Colorado’s state workforce initiatives that connect
students to in-demand jobs; and Indiana’s efforts to connect high school
students to work-based learning and career scholarship accounts.

Administration officials called on states to invest at least 0.5% of
their eligible [federal highway formula
funds](https://www.fhwa.dot.gov/innovativeprograms/centers/workforce_dev/504e_state_core_programs_guidance_0318.aspx),
which nearly $50 billion per year, to expand and diversify their
construction workforces. States can follow the examples of Maryland and
Pennsylvania by investing highway funds in [high-quality workforce
approaches](https://www.transportation.gov/sites/dot.gov/files/2024-02/Best%20Practices%20to%20Expand%20Accessto%20Jobs%20and%20Economic%20Opportunity%20final_.pdf)
such as registered apprenticeship and pre-apprenticeship programs and
supportive services like child care and transportation assistance for
workers.  
  
Participants in the White House State Workforce Day Convening included
state leaders from:  

-   Arizona
-   Colorado
-   Illinois
-   Indiana
-   Maryland
-   Massachusetts
-   Michigan
-   New York
-   North Carolina
-   Pennsylvania
-   Utah
-   Wisconsin

\###
