---
date: '2024-05-06'
published_time: 2024-05-06 09:00:17-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/05/06/what-they-are-saying-president-biden-expands-san-gabriel-mountains-national-monument-and-berryessa-snow-mountain-national-monument/
tags: statements-releases
title: "WHAT THEY ARE SAYING: President\_Biden Expands San Gabriel Mountains National\
  \ Monument and Berryessa Snow Mountain National\_Monument"
---
 
As part of the Biden-Harris Administration’s unprecedented commitment to
protect America’s natural wonders for future generations, honor areas of
cultural significance to Tribal Nations and Indigenous peoples, and
expand access to nature, yesterday President Biden [signed
proclamations](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/05/02/fact-sheet-president-biden-expands-san-gabriel-mountains-national-monument-and-berryessa-snow-mountain-national-monument/)
expanding the San Gabriel Mountains National Monument and the Berryessa
Snow Mountain National Monument. Together, these actions protect nearly
120,000 acres of lands in California.

The Biden-Harris Administration has already conserved more than 41
million acres of lands and waters, putting President Biden on track to
conserve more lands and waters than any President in history.

*Leaders from California and across the country praised the
announcement. Here’s what they’re saying:*

**<u>Tribal and Community Leaders</u>**

**Anthony Roberts, Chairman, Yocha Dehe Tribe:** “We thank President
Biden for expanding the Berryessa Snow Mountain National Monument and
protecting Molok Luyuk, an area steeped in thousands of years of rich
history and profound meaning to the Patwin people, whose traditional
territory stretches south from these hills to the shores of San Pablo
Bay and east to the Sacramento River. Elements of the natural landscape
on the ridge have traditional cultural significance to us. We look
forward to the day when condors fly over Molok Luyuk once again.”
\[Statement, 05/02/2024\]

**Lynn Valbuena, Chairwoman, San Manuel Band of Missions Indians**: “The
San Manuel Band of Mission Indians is grateful for President Biden’s
action today to expand the San Gabriel Mountains National Monument. The
San Gabriel Mountains are culturally significant to the Serrano and
other Indigenous peoples. It feels good to know that these mountains and
lands will now be protected for future generations of our people.”
\[Statement, o5/02/2024\]

**Rudy Ortega Jr., L.H.D., President, Fernandeño Tataviam Band of
Mission Indians:** “We are thrilled that the San Gabriel Mountains
National Monument is expanding. We thank the Biden administration for
making this longstanding vision a reality. Expanding the Monument helps
protect lands of cultural importance to my people who are part of this
nation’s history and who have cared for these lands since time
immemorial. It also further protects areas that are critical for our
environment and the wildlife and plants that depend on this landscape.”
\[Statement, 05/02/2024\]

**Chief Anthony Morales, Gabrieleno San Gabriel Band of Mission
Indians:** “We add our voices in celebration of expanding the San
Gabriel Mountains National Monument. The San Gabriel Mountains are
historically significant to our tribe, our people, and our culture.
Protecting more of this important region helps protect our traditional
plants and cultural resources. We join Senator Padilla and
Representative Chu in thanking President Biden for using the Antiquities
Act to expand the monument.” \[Statement, 05/02/2024\]

**David Diaz, Executive Director, Active San Gabriel Valley**: “For San
Gabriel Valley residents, the San Gabriel Mountains are the backdrop to
our lives. They are a place of unreal beauty, connection, and
rejuvenation, and offer multiple benefits to our community. We thank
Representative Chu and Senator Padilla for their leadership to complete
the vision of the San Gabriel Mountains National Monument, and we thank
President Biden for taking action. We are looking forward to leading
adventures into the western Angeles National Forest so they can feel the
shade of a coast live oak, spend quality time with their family and
enjoy views from our beautiful mountains.” \[Statement, 05/02/2024\]

**Belén Bernal, Executive Director, Nature for All:** “Our local
community is overjoyed to see this next step in a 20-year effort to
permanently protect the San Gabriel Mountains. The area included in the
expanded San Gabriel Mountains National Monument is the closest section
of the National Forest to the San Fernando Valley; this action helps
ensure environmental justice for communities who lack access to green
and open spaces throughout Los Angeles County. Thank you, President
Biden, for taking this action to benefit the health and well-being of
millions of Angelenos and to Vice President Harris for championing the
protection of these special public lands!” \[Statement, 05/02/2024\]

**Mary Creasman, Chief Executive Officer, California Environmental
Voters:** “The expansion of our national monuments and protection of our
public lands are key nature-based solutions to the climate and
biodiversity crises. These additions to the San Gabriel Mountains and
Berryessa Snow Mountain National Monuments include must-protect areas
that provide communities with critical drinking water, create access to
greenspaces for underserved communities, hold historical and cultural
significance to California Tribes and Indigenous community leaders, and
serve as wildlife corridors and habitats for imperiled animals and
native plants. We thank President Biden for his leadership and urge him
to look to additional places in California for national monument
designation, so we can make more progress towards our 30×30 goals.”
\[[Statement](https://www.lcv.org/media-center/lcv-and-california-environmental-voters-celebrate-president-bidens-expansions-of-san-gabriel-mountains-and-berryessa-snow-mountains-national-monuments/),
05/02/2024\]

**Jun Bando, Executive Director, California Native Plant Society:** “We
are incredibly grateful to President Biden and our steadfast
congressional champions who have honored the Yocha Dehe Wintun Nation’s
request to expand Berryessa Snow Mountain National Monument to include
Molok Luyuk. The protection of Molok Luyuk represents the promise of a
new era in conservation, with its grounding in inclusive leadership, the
embrace of shareable Indigenous knowledges, and the coming together of
Tribes, communities, and organizations to protect California’s
remarkable biodiversity and our connections to it.” \[Statement,
05/02/2024\]

**Francisco J. Moreno-Castillo, Executive Director, COFEM-Consejo de
Federaciones Mexicanas:** “Expanding the San Gabriel Mountains Monument
is not just about preserving our natural heritage; it’s about ensuring
that future generations have the same opportunities to connect with
nature, to find solace in its beauty, and to learn from its lessons. We
owe a debt of gratitude to President Biden for his vision and commitment
to conservation. His decision to protect and expand this monument is a
testament to his understanding of the importance of safeguarding our
environment and ensuring equitable access to outdoor spaces for all.
Thank you, President Biden, for your leadership and foresight in
preserving the San Gabriel Mountains for generations to come.”
\[Statement, 05/02/2024\]

**Pamela Flick, California Program Director, Defenders of Wildlife:**
“We’re delighted that President Biden is expanding Berryessa Snow
Mountain National Monument with the addition of Molok Luyuk. It is
critical that wildlife never lose access to this important corridor
connecting the Mendocino National Forest to the Cache Creek Wilderness
Area, and today’s action ensures they won’t. As someone who has worked
to protect this incredibly diverse and unique landscape for the better
part of two decades, this is incredibly exciting and personally
rewarding news. My heartfelt thanks to President Biden for taking this
important step forward in land conservation.”
\[[Statement](https://defenders.org/newsroom/president-biden-expands-berryessa-snow-mountain-national-monument-permanently-protect),
05/02/2024\]

**Katie Hawkins, California Program Director, Outdoor Alliance:**
“Adding Molok Luyuk to Berryessa Snow Mountain National Monument will
protect a recreation gem beloved by many in Northern California. This
landscape has countless local advocates—local business leaders,
scientists, conservationists, outdoor enthusiasts, and tribal community
members have advocated for its designation and are thrilled to have it
protected for future generations. We are thankful for the work of
Senator Padilla, Senator Butler, Representative Garamendi and
Representative Thompson, Governor Newsom, and are especially grateful to
the Biden administration for their commitment to conservation and
preservation.” \[Statement, 05/02/2024\]

**Katie Goodwin, California Regional Director, Access Fund**: “Access
Fund is thrilled to see the designation and expansion of Moluk Luyuk and
San Gabriel National Monument. These designations secure both
sustainable recreation access and long-term conservation, a winning
combination for health and wellness, our economy, and our environment. 
The Access Fund will continue to make sure that this new monument is
protected for future generations and that all of us can sustainably
access and enjoy these public lands.”
\[[Statement](https://www.outdooralliance.org/blog/california-monument-expansions),
05/02/2024\]

**Dennis Arguelles, Southern California Director, National Parks
Conservation Association:** “The expansion of the San Gabriel Mountains
National Monument ensures the protection of some of the last wild spaces
in the greater Los Angeles area. The expanded monument means better
coordination across the region to preserve wildlife corridors, restore
habitat, and address the threats of drought, wildfires, and climate
change. We applaud President Biden for recognizing the value and
fragility of these lands and the importance of their protection for both
people and wildlife.” \[Statement, 05/02/2024\]

**Walter “Redgie” Collins, Legal and Policy Director, California
Trout:** “The expansion of the San Gabriel National Monument is cause
for celebration. Beyond providing expanded outdoor access and protecting
precious water resources and culturally significant sites, the expansion
will also protect higher reaches of the greater San Gabriel River
watershed, which we know to hold endangered Southern steelhead genetics.
At CalTrout, we dream of a future where our local communities are able
to see Southern steelhead spawn in great numbers in Southern California
rivers and streams once again – we thank the Biden Administration for
supporting this future.” \[Statement, 05/02/2024\]

**Daniel LoPilato, Colusa County Arts Council Member and Upstate
California Creative Corps Grantee:** “Expanding the Berryessa Snow
Mountain National Monument is a win-win for Colusa County. Doing so will
help improve access to public lands and offer more recreation and
outdoor education opportunities for county residents, provide a mandate
to safeguard the habitats of endangered plants and animals, and
streamline planning for land managers so we can protect and honor this
land for generations to come. We’re lucky to have this spectacular
landscape right in our backyard. Preserving it is the right thing to
do.” \[Statement, 05/02/2024\]

**Kelly Bessem, California Stewardship Director, Winter Wildlands
Alliance:** “Expanding protected lands and recognizing tribal cultures
within these lands is the type of management needed to both address
climate change issues and protect the ability for everyone to enjoy
California landscapes for years and years to come. Honoring the land and
people in this way is a win for
everyone.”\[[Statement](https://www.outdooralliance.org/blog/california-monument-expansions),
05/02/2024\]

**Linda Castro, Assistant Policy Director, CalWild:** “CalWild is
grateful to President Biden for using his authority to expand the San
Gabriel Mountains National Monument. This momentous action protects a
critical watershed for the LA region, access to nature for Angelenos,
and important cultural areas. We also want to thank Representative Judy
Chu for her tireless efforts over many years to expand the San Gabriel
Mountains National Monument and fulfill a vision 20 years in the making.
We express our sincere gratitude to Senators Alex Padilla and Laphonza
Butler for their strong support for the San Gabriel Mountains.”
\[Statement, 05/02/2024\]

**Guillermo Rodriguez, Vice President Pacific Region, California State
Director, Trust for Public Land**: “The Trust for Public Land applauds
the Biden Administration’s proclamation expanding the Berryessa Snow
Mountain National Monument and San Gabriel Mountains National Monument.
The San Gabriel Mountains National Monument, serving as the backyard to
the nation’s second-largest urban center, and the Berryessa Snow
Mountain National Monument, with its rich biodiversity and deep cultural
significance, are invaluable assets that contribute to the well-being of
communities and flora and fauna alike. We commend this decisive action
to protect and enhance these national treasures in California. With the
Biden Administration’s proclamation expanding both the Berryessa Snow
Mountain National Monument and the San Gabriel Mountains National
Monument, California takes a significant step forward in safeguarding
vital ecosystems and ensuring equitable access to outdoor spaces for
millions. Trust for Public Land also encourages the Administration to
redouble its investments in these Monuments to ensure responsible
stewardship and effective management. TPL stands ready to assist the
Biden Administration in ensuring these Monuments live up to their
fullest promise.”
\[[Statement](https://www.tpl.org/media-room/statement-from-trust-for-public-land-on-the-biden-administrations-expansion-of-two-national-monuments-in-california-berryessa-snow-mountain-national-monument-and-san-gabriel-mountains-natio),
05/02/2024\]

**Eric Hanson, Chair of the California Chapter, Backcountry Hunters and
Anglers**: “Today we thank President Biden for answering the call of
hunters, anglers, and public land owners across California by taking
action to expand the Berryessa Snow Mountain National Monument through
his authority under the Antiquities Act. We also commend the leadership
of Sens. Padilla, as well as Reps. Garamendi and Thompson for their
longtime support for the conservation of these public lands and waters
that provide opportunities for sportsmen and women in a state that is
rapidly
developing.” \[[Statement](https://www.backcountryhunters.org/berryessa_snow_mountain_national_monument_expanded_via_antiquities_act),
05/02/2024\]

**André Sanchez, Community Engagement & Conservation Policy Manager,
CalWild:** “We thank President Biden for responding to calls from the
Yocha Dehe Wintun Nation and other Tribes, California Natural Resources
Secretary Wade Crowfoot, many local elected officials including the Lake
County Board of Supervisors, business owners, faith leaders, veterans,
and a long list of others to protect Molok Luyuk. We are also deeply
indebted to our champions in Congress Senators Alex Padilla and Laphonza
Butler and Representatives Mike Thompson and John Garamendi for not only
proposing to protect Molok Luyuk by expanding the Berryessa Snow
Mountain National Monument, but also for including groundbreaking Tribal
collaborative management language in their monument expansion bill. We
are proud to have been a part of this campaign and look forward to
working with the Bureau of Land Management, U.S. Forest Service,
co-managing Tribes like the Yocha Dehe Wintun Nation, and others to care
for Molok Luyuk and the rest of the Berryessa Snow Mountain National
Monument in the years to come.” \[Statement, 05/02/2024\]

**Don Amador, Former Chair, CA State Parks Off-Highway Motor Vehicle
Recreation Commission President of Quiet Warrior Racing/Consulting
LLC:** “As an avid OHV recreationist, I am thrilled at the expansion of
Berryessa Snow Mountain National Monument to include Molok Luyuk. The
permanent protection of Molok Luyuk will improve the management of these
lands and increase public access to recreation opportunities. This is a
win-win for our community. I am grateful for President Biden using the
Antiquities Act to expand the monument and protect these lands for
future generations to enjoy.” \[Statement, 05/02/2024\]

**Laura Deehan, State Director, Environment California Research & Policy
Center:** “Expanding these two monuments is a great first step by
President Biden to protect California’s public lands; and a meaningful
action toward the state, federal, and global campaign to protect 30% of
our land and waters by 2030. By permanently protecting these beautiful
mountains and forests, we can ensure that Californians have more amazing
places to enjoy nature. Additionally, local wildlife will be able to
thrive, and awesome native California species such as golden eagles,
peregrine falcons, black bears and mountain lions will have a better
chance of survival. We thank President Biden for today’s actions and
look forward to future actions to conserve more of California’s special
places.”
\[[Statement](https://environmentamerica.org/media-center/statement-national-monument-expansions-will-protect-wildlife-nature/),
05/02/2024\]

**Mike Painter, Coordinator, Californians for Western Wilderness in San
Francisco**: “Californians for Western Wilderness applauds Pres. Biden
for his proclamation expanding Berryessa Snow Mountain National Monument
to include and protect Molok Luyuk (Condor Ridge). Molok Luyuk is a
place of great cultural significance, as well as a geologically and
botanically unique area worthy of protection. We are proud to have
worked with the Yocha Dehe Wintun Nation and other organizations to have
its importance formally recognized.” \[Statement, 05/02/2024\]

**Liz Reilly, Former Mayor, City of Duarte and Vice Chair, San Gabriel
Mountains Community Collaborative:** “The San Gabriel Mountains National
Monument, located in the greater LA area, provides millions of people
with the opportunity to experience the majesty and grandeur of the
mountain backdrop to our community. It is a gift to the people of the
Los Angeles area. We celebrate the expansion of the San Gabriel
Mountains National Monument which protects these ecologically rich
landscapes for the clean air and clean water they provide for
generations to come, while enhancing access to nature by the community.”
\[Statement, 05/02/2024\]

**<u>Congressional Leaders</u>**

**Senator Alex Padilla (CA):** “From the majestic peaks of the San
Gabriel Mountains to the sacred woodlands of Berryessa Snow Mountain,
our national monuments hold some of our greatest natural marvels.
Protecting our public lands as National Monuments is essential to
combating the climate crisis, preserving cultural and sacred history,
protecting biodiversity, and ensuring access to green space for millions
of low-income Americans. I am thrilled to see President Biden exercise
his authority to permanently protect the entire San Gabriel Mountains
and formally incorporate Molok Luyuk and its thousands of years of
tribal origin stories into the Berryessa Snow Mountain National
Monument. These monuments have fostered a lifelong connection to nature
for millions of Californians, and their expansions will ensure future
generations can experience and enjoy them as well. This announcement
will also usher in an important new era of cooperative stewardship
between our federal land management agencies and tribal governments, and
marks a significant milestone following decades of local efforts to
safeguard these natural landscapes.”
\[[Statement](https://www.padilla.senate.gov/newsroom/press-releases/padilla-statement-on-expansion-of-san-gabriel-mountains-and-berryessa-snow-mountain-national-monuments/),
05/02/2024\]

**Senator Laphonza Butler (CA):** “I applaud @POTUS for expanding two of
California’s iconic public lands. By protecting these National
Monuments, we not only preserve their beauty for future generations and
safeguard important cultural landscapes, we also reaffirm our commitment
to protecting our environment.” \[[X
Post](https://twitter.com/Senlaphonza/status/1786078682508820592),
05/02/2024\]

**Representative Raúl M. Grijalva (AZ-07):** “With today’s expansion of
the San Gabriel Mountains and Berryessa Snow Mountain National
Monuments, President Biden is once again showing that this
administration is committed to both community-led conservation and
working alongside tribes to achieve meaningful protections for
Indigenous lands,” said Ranking Member Grijalva. “Today’s action will
also make the outdoors and natural spaces more accessible for
communities that have only had limited options for too long. I am
grateful to Congresswoman Chu and Congressman Mike Thompson for their
tireless work in advocating for the protection and expansion of these
two important landscapes.”
\[[Statement](https://democrats-naturalresources.house.gov/media/press-releases/grijalva-celebrates-expansion-of-the-san-gabriel-mountains-national-monument-and-berryessa-snow-mountain-national-monument?1),
05/02/2024\]

**Representative Grace Napolitano (CA-31):** “As a representative of the
San Gabriel Foothills community, I am very proud of our community
members and the local organizations who have worked tirelessly on
preserving and expanding green space in LA County, including the
establishment of the San Gabriel Mountains National Monument, and now
the long-awaited expansion,” Napolitano said. “This expansion will
improve recreation opportunities for millions of families and bring much
needed resources to the communities that serve as the gateway to the
mountains, while respecting local rights. The San Gabriel Mountains,
Foothills, and River Corridor attract millions of visitors each year,
and provide some of the only outdoor options for the open space poor LA
County. As California is continuously faced with droughts, forest fires,
and the growing impacts of climate change, it is critical that we
champion policies that protect our environment and natural resources for
all future generations! I want to thank Representative Judy Chu for her
tireless work and last but certainly not least, President Biden and Vice
President Harris, for continuing to support the conservation of our
public lands and waters. I look forward to continuing to foster a close
relationship between the communities and cities around the Monument and
the National Parks Service.”
\[[Statement](https://napolitano.house.gov/media/press-releases/napolitano-celebrates-expansion-san-gabriel-mountains-national-monument),
05/02/2024\]

**Representative** **Judy Chu (CA-28):** “Just left the White House! I’m
ecstatic that @POTUS is expanding the San Gabriel Mountains National
Monument! This will protect & expand access to sacred natural, cultural,
& recreational treasures for the 18 million+ Angelenos living near these
beautiful public lands. 10 years ago, @BarackObama responded to my call
with indigenous leaders, community activists, & nature-lovers for
permanent protection for the San Gabriel Mountains by declaring 346,000
acres as a National Monument. Even then, we recognized that our work
wasn’t finished. It’s been an honor working with @SenAlexPadilla to
advocate for expanding the San Gabriel Mountains National Monument. The
benefits are immense: enhanced access to nature for underserved
communities and safeguarding one-third of LA County’s drinking water
resources. Today’s expansion would not be possible without the tireless
efforts of @CalNatResources, @HildaSolis, @lanatureforall,
@Pasadena\_Mayor, @envirovoters, and many others to preserve the San
Gabriels for present and future generations. Their dedication has been
invaluable. I am deeply grateful to President Biden for his decisive
action in preserving this invaluable natural treasure. This is just
wonderful news. As we celebrate, let’s also recommit to protecting these
pristine public lands for the future.” \[[X
Post](https://twitter.com/RepAdamSchiff/status/1786066876008747243),
05/02/2024\]

**Representative Adam Schiff (CA-30):** “California is home to the most
unique public lands in the world. President Biden’s bold action will not
only preserve the San Gabriel Mountains National Monument and Berryessa
Snow Mountain National Monument for generations to come, but also
underscore our collective commitment to the protection of our public
heritage and public lands. Along with Senators Padilla and Feinstein,
and Representative Chu, I’ve fought to protect the San Gabriel
Mountains. And the expansion of these monuments will provide increased
access to green spaces for millions of Californians and boost local
economies through sustainable tourism. As we continue to take on the
impacts of climate change and environmental degradation, steps like
these are essential in safeguarding our beautiful public lands for
future generations to enjoy.”
\[[Statement](https://schiff.house.gov/news/press-releases/rep-schiff-applauds-president-bidens-expansion-of-san-gabriel-mountains-and-berryessa-snow-mountains-national-monuments),
05/02/2024\]

**Representative Mike Thompson (CA-04):** “I worked to designate the
Berryessa Snow Mountain region as a national monument in 2015, and I’ve
worked to expand it ever since. I was honored to join President Biden
today to see these efforts through. Molok Luyuk is culturally
significant to numerous tribes and other Native peoples and this
expansion begins a new era of tribal co-stewardship of ancestral public
lands. Today’s expansion will ensure the region’s biodiversity,
geological formations, and cultural connections are preserved for
generations to come.”
\[[Statement](https://mikethompson.house.gov/newsroom/press-releases/thompson-garamendi-join-president-biden-announce-expansion-berryessa-snow),
05/02/2024\]

**Representative John Garamendi (CA-08):** “Conserving California’s
natural beauty has been a lifelong passion throughout my tenure in the
state legislature, as Deputy Secretary of the Interior to President
Clinton, and now as a member of Congress. In 2022, I introduced the
‘Berryessa Snow Mountain National Monument Expansion Act’ with Senator
Alex Padilla and Congressman Mike Thompson. I am thrilled that President
Biden has issued this presidential proclamation to expand the Berryessa
Snow Mountain National Monument and preserve the tribal wisdom,
heritage, and cultural traditions that ‘Molok Luyuk’ or Condor Ridge has
been home to for over 11,000 years. I thank President Biden and Interior
Secretary Haaland for conserving this special place forever.”
\[[Statement](https://mikethompson.house.gov/newsroom/press-releases/thompson-garamendi-join-president-biden-announce-expansion-berryessa-snow),
05/02/2024\]

**Representative Jared Huffman (CA-02):** “@POTUS just expanded the San
Gabriel Mountains National Monument and Berryessa Snow Mountain National
Monument 🎉 Protecting these places honors Indigenous lands, helps us
reach our climate goals, and boosts outdoor access for everyone. This
move also permanently protects Molok Luyuk, where the Yurok Tribe in my
district have worked to bring the California condor back from the brink
of extinction. What a big milestone for these beautiful and culturally
significant places!” \[[X
Post](https://twitter.com/RepHuffman/status/1786086189155414322),
05/02/2024\]

**Rep. Jerry Nadler (NY-12):** “Thank you, @POTUS for once again
delivering for our public lands by expanding two National Monuments. I’m
proud to have cosponsored @RepJudyChu’s bill to protect and expand the
San Gabriel Mountains National Monument. This monument was targeted by
the Trump Administration and might not have survived a second term.
Instead, thanks to the Biden Administration, it’s being expanded.” \[[X
Post](https://twitter.com/RepJerryNadler/status/1786130098862563709),
05/02/2024\]

**<u>State and Local Officials</u>**

**California Governor Gavin Newsom:** “Berryessa Snow Mountain and San
Gabriel Mountains National Monuments are getting bigger! Thanks to
@POTUS, two national monuments in California are expanding by thousands
of acres. We’ll continue to protect our beautiful lands for all to
enjoy.” \[[X
Post](https://twitter.com/CAgovernor/status/1786087530980597869),
05/02/2024\]

**Secretary Wade Crowfoot, California Natural Resources:** “I’m thrilled
and deeply thankful. President Biden’s action protects two very special
places in California for future generations. It demonstrates this
President’s remarkable conservation leadership, which has driven
historic amounts of public land protection and investments over the last
four years. These monument expansions, combined with the establishment
of new proposed monuments in California currently under consideration,
are win-win actions that benefit California’s people and nature alike.
They will help us conserve 30 percent of California’s lands by 2030,
protect sacred cultural sites, and enshrine access to our public lands.”
\[Statement, 05/02/2024\]

**Secretary Yana Garcia, California Environmental Protection:** “I am
thrilled to support the expansion of the San Gabriel Mountains National
Monument in partnership with the Biden administration and NGOs. The San
Gabriel River is a hub of recreational, economic, and cultural activity.
This new infusion of resources, including funding from the State Water
Board, will help protect water quality and ensure public access to one
of California’s most vibrant ecosystems.” \[Statement, 05/02/2024\]

**California State Senator Nancy Skinner (District 9):** “Biden just
expanded a spectacular Northern California national monument. ‘The
Berryessa Snow Mountain National Monument between Napa and Mendocino
counties will add a picture-perfect ridgeline rich with wildflowers and
tribal significance.’” \[[X
Post](https://twitter.com/NancySkinnerCA/status/1786093295799767187),
05/02/2024\]

**California State Senator Bill Dodd (District 3):** “The Berryessa Snow
Mountain National Monument is one of the most scenic and diverse
landscapes in all of Northern California. Now, it makes sense to include
this additional piece, which was home to native tribes for thousands of
years. We can recognize the land’s cultural significance while
protecting it for generations to come.” \[[X
Post](https://x.com/SenBillDodd/status/1786093853243760860),
05/02/2024\]

**California Assemblymember Mike Fong (District 49):** “The expansion of
the San Gabriel Mountains National Monument is a historic moment for our
\#SGV community! Thank you to @POTUS, @RepJudyChu, @SenAlexPadilla, and
our local advocates for championing our environment!” \[[X
Post](https://twitter.com/AsmMikeFong/status/1786105516646965449),
05/02/2024\]

**Mayor Thomas Wong, City of Monterey Park:** “The San Gabriel Mountains
National Monument is one of California’s great treasures, and I am
pleased to celebrate its expansion. I thank President Biden for taking
action to include the upper Los Angeles River watershed in the Angeles
National Forest. This is an important source of our region’s drinking
water and open space. I’m also grateful to Senator Padilla, Senator
Butler, and Representative Chu for their work championing the
expansion.” \[Statement, 05/02/2024\]

**Mayor Victor Gordo, Pasadena:** “Thank you President Biden for hearing
and responding to our community’s call for the protection of the San
Gabriel Mountains. These beloved lands provide critical open space and
access to nature for millions of local residents.” \[Statement,
05/02/2024\]

**Supervisor Hilda L. Solis, Los Angeles County District 1**: “I’m
delighted about the announcement of the expansion of the San Gabriel
Mountains National Monument – an initiative I helped kickstart during my
time in Congress when I introduced H.R. 519, known as the San Gabriel
River Watershed Study Act. The San Gabriel Mountains are critical open
spaces for many underserved communities in Los Angeles County that lack
parks and suffer from severe health issues. I thank President Joe Biden
for granting such protection to the western Angeles National Forest as
it will ensure our future generations have access to critical open
spaces.” \[Statement, 05/02/2024\]

**Lake County Supervisor E.J. Crandell, Member of the Robinson Rancheria
Tribe:** “Molok Luyuk is a special and sacred place for area Tribes and
for many residents who enjoy recreation activities like hiking and
mountain biking. The natural beauty of our home also drives tourism,
which is key to the economic vitality of the region. I am grateful that
the President protected these beautiful lands. It is a gift to future
generations.” \[Statement, 05/02/2024\]

**Bruno Sabatier, Lake County Board of Supervisors:** “Molok Luyuk
contains both a natural and cultural richness in Lake County that
deserves to be preserved for future generations to learn about and
experience. This is a proud moment when we have successfully protected
and preserved such a gem for Lake County, California, and beyond.”
\[Statement, 05/02/2024\]

**Denise Conrado, Colusa City Councilmember:** “Colusa has benefitted
from the vibrant recreation destination that Berryessa National Monument
has provided for our local community. Adding Molok Luyuk to the monument
area will ensure we also honor the heritage of the Patwin People who
called these lands home long before we arrived. This designation will
ensure that the Tribes have a leadership role in the cultural and
restorative management practices to protect the unique history and
biodiversity of the area. Colusa will only benefit further from creating
equity and balance by expanding this monument.” \[Statement,
05/02/2024\]

**Tom Stallard, Woodland City Councilmember**: “It is entirely
appropriate that we show deference and courtesy to Native People by
expanding Berryessa Snow Mountain National Monument to include
additional lands sacred to them and referring to it in a way that honors
their people by using their native language. Thank you to President
Biden for taking action to protect Molok Luyuk.” \[Statement,
05/02/2024\]

**<u>Environmental Leaders</u>**

**Maite Arce, President and Chief Executive Officer, Hispanic Access
Foundation:** “Los Angeles is one of the top cities in the country with
the highest concentration of Latinos. The San Gabriel Mountains make up
70% of Los Angeles County’s open space and are the backyard for many
Latino and culturally diverse communities in the area that have limited
access to green spaces in their neighborhoods. The designation expansion
ensures permanent protection of the San Gabriels, which are critical for
the health and wellbeing of millions of people and future generations.”
\[[Statement](https://hispanicaccess.org/news-resources/news-releases/item/3070-109-000-acres-are-added-to-the-san-gabriel-mountains-national-monument),
05/02/2024\]

**Jamie Williams, President, The Wilderness Society:** “We thank
President Biden for expanding the San Gabriel Mountains and Berryessa
Snow Mountain National Monuments, a representation of our vision for a
future where people and nature flourish together. This dual expansion
gets us closer to realizing that vision by advancing 30×30 conservation
goals, promoting biodiversity, mitigating climate impacts, and honoring
decades of community-led efforts that aim to serve people and nature in
unity.”
\[[Statement](https://www.wilderness.org/articles/press-release/president-biden-expands-two-california-national-monuments),
05/02/2024\]

**Gene Karpinski, President, League of Conservation Voters:** “The
Biden-Harris administration has done more for conservation than any
other first-term president in history. They have protected a historic 41
million acres and counting, and are continuing to deliver on
community-led conservation with this latest expansion of San Gabriel
Mountains and Berryessa Snow Mountains National Monuments. With these
expansions, the administration is increasing equitable access to the
outdoors in one of the country’s most populated areas while protecting
clean water sources, healthy ecosystems, and vital cultural resources in
Southern California. Expanding Berryessa Snow Mountains National
Monument to include Molok Luyuk also honors its cultural importance to
the Yocha Dehe Wintun peoples, as well as other California Tribes, and
conserves the region’s incredible biodiversity. National monuments are a
win-win to permanently protect our cultural and natural resources and
advance equity in the outdoors. We join local partners and Tribal
leaders in celebrating these expansions, and we look forward to
supporting the Biden-Harris administration’s efforts to protect even
more places worthy of national monument designation.”
\[[Statement](https://www.lcv.org/media-center/lcv-and-california-environmental-voters-celebrate-president-bidens-expansions-of-san-gabriel-mountains-and-berryessa-snow-mountains-national-monuments/),
05/02/2024\]

**Ben Jealous, Executive Director, Sierra Club: “**National monuments
protect more than landscapes. They preserve the historical, cultural,
and spiritual legacies of the people who have made this country what it
is. Expanding the San Gabriels monument and protecting Molok Luyuk will
have significant and immediate benefits for the communities, wildlife,
and ecosystems of California. Millions of people will have greater
access to nature, vital habitat will be preserved for imperiled species,
and critical water resources will be safeguarded for those who rely on
them. Since day one, President Biden has made it clear that he is
serious about protecting public lands and preserving the legacies etched
into those landscapes. We urge him to continue to build his monumental
legacy.”
\[[Statement](https://www.sierraclub.org/press-releases/2024/05/sierra-club-celebrates-expansion-san-gabriel-mountains-berryessa-snow),
05/02/2024\]

**Jennifer Rokala, Executive Director, Center for Western Priorities:**
“Today’s announcement not only adds to President Biden’s conservation
legacy, but also amplifies his commitment to environmental justice and
Tribal sovereignty. Ensuring communities of color have equitable access
to nearby public lands and honoring Tribally-led land protection efforts
are both vital components of public land conservation. By expanding
these monuments, President Biden is now within arm’s reach of becoming
the most consequential first-term conservation president in recent
history. We’re happy to see his administration continuing to make
progress toward the goal of conserving 30 percent of lands and waters by
2030, and we’re hopeful to see him designate more monuments so that he
can solidify his place in conservation history.”
\[[Statement](https://westernpriorities.org/2024/05/statement-president-biden-expands-two-national-monuments-in-california/),
05/02/2024\]

**Adam Cramer, Chief Executive Officer, Outdoor Alliance**: “Outdoor
Alliance is thrilled to see the expansion of San Gabriel Mountains
National Monument and Berryessa Snow Mountain National Monument. Today’s
designations expand protections for some of California’s most popular
outdoor landscapes. These areas are recreation gems beloved by people
across the state. We are thankful for the work of Senator Padilla,
Senator Butler, Representative Garamendi and Representative Thompson,
Governor Newsom, and are especially grateful to the Biden administration
for their commitment to conservation and preservation.”
\[[Statement](https://www.outdooralliance.org/blog/california-monument-expansions),
05/02/2024\]

**Eric Artz, President and Chief Executive Officer, REI Co-op:** “REI
Co-op applauds the Biden Administration for expanding San Gabriel
Mountains and Berryessa Snow Mountain National Monuments. We recognize
the leadership of Tribal Nations and local communities who called for
the protection of these special places and are proud to have worked
alongside them to achieve this goal. The permanent protection of these
public lands will help ensure that current and future generations can
enjoy them. We are especially grateful for the increased access to time
outside that these spaces will provide.” \[Statement, 05/02/2024\]

**Janessa Goldbeck, Chief Executive Officer, Vet Voice Foundation:**
“President Biden has delivered for California’s veterans by expanding
the San Gabriel Mountains National Monument and Berryessa Snow Mountain
National Monument. These are places of reflection, reunion, and healing
for our state’s veterans. We urge President Biden to build on this
tremendous achievement and protect three additional national monuments
in California. Doing so would protect important cultural resources and
military heritage sites, and help ensure access to nature for local
communities.” \[Statement, 05/02/2024\]

**Shoren Brown, Vice President of Public Affairs, The Conservation
Alliance:** “On behalf of The Conservation Alliance and its 270 member
companies, we extend our heartfelt gratitude to President Joe Biden for
expanding the San Gabriel Mountains National Monument by over 100,000
acres. This landmark decision not only supports local communities and
protects close-to-home outdoor access, but also further bolsters
California’s thriving outdoor economy. We are profoundly appreciative of
the administration’s commitment to community health, the environment,
and California’s economic well-being. We thank Senator Alex Padilla,
Senator Laphonza Butler, and Representative Judy Chu for championing
this effort, and congratulate on-the-ground coalition leaders and
partners for their diligence over decades to urge both the creation and
expansion of the National Monument. We look forward to continuing to
work alongside partners on the ground and the Biden administration to
designate more monuments and make sure those national monuments have the
appropriate resources to manage them for conservation.” \[Statement,
05/02/2024\]

**Hans Cole, Vice President of Environmental Activism, Patagonia:** “The
future of our business, along with other companies who depend on the
outdoor recreation economy, depends on the health of natural places that
customers explore. Berryessa Snow Mountain National Monument and Molok
Luyuk offer incredible opportunities for hiking and include critical
wildlife habitat. We applaud the Biden administration for the expansion
of this national monument as an opportunity to conserve land and combat
the climate and environmental crisis.” \[Statement, 05/02/2024\]

**Steve Messer, President, Concerned Off-Road Bicyclists Association:**
“The San Gabriel Mountains have been my backyard outdoor playground for
the 40 years I’ve lived in their shadow. It warms my heart to know the
entire range of the San Gabriel Mountains will now be protected for
future generations to experience and enjoy under the expansion of the
San Gabriel Mountains National Monument.”
\[[Statement](https://www.outdooralliance.org/blog/california-monument-expansions),
05/02/2024\]

**Nicole Gentile, Senior Director for Conservation, Center for American
Progress**: “These monument expansions build on President Biden’s legacy
of centering equity and justice in his conservation work. They will
ensure that historically marginalized communities have access to, and
are represented in, the country’s public lands. The San Gabriel
Mountains National Monument expansion provides access to nature for
millions of Southern Californians who live in one of the country’s
largest urban hubs. This is an area where nature deprivation
disproportionately affects people of color and low-income communities.
The Berryessa Snow Mountain National Monument expansion honors and
protects sacred lands and safeguards rich wildlife habitat. This
expansion, combined with a commitment to explore Tribal co-stewardship,
centers Indigenous voices, knowledge, and leadership on our public
lands.”
\[[Statement](https://www.americanprogress.org/press/statement-monument-expansions-center-equity-and-justice-in-conservation/),
05/02/2024\]

**Christy Zamani, Executive Director, Day One**: “We thank the Biden
administration for the actions taken under the Antiquities Act to expand
the San Gabriel Mountains. Adding more public lands to the San Gabriel
Mountains National Monument will help ensure that young people will be
able to continue experiencing and learning about unique plants in the
region, including the drought-tolerant and fire-adapted chaparral
shrubland, scrub oaks, wild lilac, western mountain-mahogany, and the
California poppy.” \[Statement, 05/02/2024\]

**Sara Husby, Executive Director, Great Old Broads for Wilderness:**
“Today is a day to celebrate. The expansion of Northern California’s
Berryessa Snow Mountain to include Molok Luyuk ensures the protection of
a vital ecosystem important to numerous threatened species of plants and
wildlife, as well as the protection of cultural sites held sacred by
Indigenous people across the region. The expansion of the San Gabriel
Mountains National Monument will not only protect threatened wildlife
habitat and cultural sites but will also protect an important source of
water for the Los Angeles basin and provide new opportunities for
underserved communities in Southern California to experience nature.
Thanks to the Biden administration for demonstrating its commitment to
conservation with the protection of these two unique landscapes.”
\[Statement, 05/02/2024\]

**Charles Thomas, Executive Director, Outward Bound Adventures:** “For
over 60 years, Outward Bound Adventures (OBA) has introduced low-income
and racially marginalized communities of color to the unique beauty of
the San Gabriel Mountains. We celebrate this expansion of
nationally-recognized wilderness on the fringe of a sprawling and
densely populated urban center, providing much-needed access to outdoor
recreation and employment opportunities for historically absent and
forgotten communities of color. Thank you, President Biden, for
recognizing this critical need and taking action to broaden recreational
space where it is needed most.” \[Statement, 05/02/2024\]

**Jocelyn Torres, Co-Interim Executive Director and Chief Conservation
Officer, Conservation Lands Foundation:** “Today’s action by President
Biden to expand Berryessa Snow Mountain National Monument by designating
Molok Luyuk honors efforts to safeguard sites of sacred, cultural and
historic significance, wildlife and rare plant habitat, and outdoor
recreation for current and future generations. We are grateful President
Biden heard the calls of Tribal leaders; federal, state and local
governments; businesses; and advocates from Indigenous, outdoor
recreation, conservation and many other communities to permanently
protect this sacred landscape by use of the Antiquities Act.”
\[Statement, 05/02/2024\]

**Zach Plopper, Environmental Director, Surfrider Foundation**:
“Surfrider is so proud to be a part of the designation of these national
monuments. This expansion will enhance equitable access to nature,
protect the upper Los Angeles River watershed, and safeguard a refuge
for wildlife. Expanding the monument is the next step in a 20-year,
locally-driven effort to protect the San Gabriel Mountains.”
\[[Statement](https://www.outdooralliance.org/blog/california-monument-expansions),
05/02/2024\]

**Christian La Mont, Storytelling and Advocacy Manager, Latino
Outdoors:** “Latino Outdoors is thrilled to celebrate and recognize the
incredible collaboration of Tribes, Indigenous community leaders and
advocates, local leaders, policymakers, and community members who
organized, hiked, got loud, and showed up in every way to support the
proposed expansion of the San Gabriel Mountains and Berryessa Snow
Mountain National Monuments. Expanding access to these public lands,
especially in some of the most park-deprived areas of California, is a
legacy we can all be proud of. Thank you and gracias to President Biden
for his commitment to conservation and thank you for the tireless
support of Senator Padilla, Senator Butler, Representative Chu,
Representative Garamendi, Representative Thompson and so many others who
are a part of this multi-generational movement to protect and preserve
California’s public lands and to ensure equitable access to the
outdoors.” \[Statement, 05/02/2024\]

**Lisa Belenky, Senior Counsel, Center for Biological Diversity:** “This
proclamation expanding Berryessa Snow Mountain National Monument to
include Molok Luyuk will help preserve biodiversity and cultural
resources on our public lands for generations to come. This remarkable
area is of cultural importance to the Yocha Dehe Wintun Nation and
provides essential wildlife connectivity. Molok Luyuk is home to many
plants and animals that we’ve long worked to protect, including ancient
blue oak woodlands, wildflower meadows, extensive stands of McNab
cypress, mountain lions, tule elk, and imperiled foothill yellow-legged
frogs.” \[Statement, 05/02/2024\]

**National Wildlife Federation:** “Thank you @POTUS @SecDebHaaland and
@SecVilsack for listening to Indigenous community leaders, elected
officials, and community members to expand the San Gabriel Mountains
National Monument and Berryessa Snow Mountain National Monument.” \[[X
Post](https://twitter.com/OurPublicLands/status/1786062320914837940),
05/02/2024\]

**Nuestra Tierra:** “Thank you @POTUS for expanding the San Gabriel
Mountains National Monument and Berryessa Snow Mountain National
Monument through the Antiquities Act! Together, these actions have
protected over 120,000 acres in California!” \[[X
Post](https://twitter.com/NuestraTierraNM/status/1786081977507926156),
05/02/2024\]

**Monuments for All:** “NEWS: President Biden is expanding the San
Gabriel Mountains National Monument & Berryessa Snow Mountain National
Monument. @POTUS, thank you for listening to Tribes, Indigenous
community leaders, elected officials, and community members protecting
these lands! \#MonumentsForAll” \[[X
Post](https://twitter.com/MonumentsForUSA/status/1786002155339407837),
05/02/2024\]

*\###*
