---
date: '2024-05-02'
modified_time: 2024-05-02 13:07:09-04:00
published_time: 2024-05-02 16:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/05/02/president-biden-announces-key-nominees-72/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key\_Nominees"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
the following individuals to serve as key leaders in his administration:

-   Tonya P. Wilkerson, Nominee to be Under Secretary of Defense for
    Intelligence and Security
-   Abigail L. Dressel, Nominee to be Ambassador Extraordinary and
    Plenipotentiary to the Republic of Angola, and to serve concurrently
    and without additional compensation as Ambassador to the Democratic
    Republic of Sao Tome and Principe
-   James Holtsnider, Nominee to be Ambassador Extraordinary and
    Plenipotentiary to the Independent State of Samoa
-   Elaine Marie Clegg, Nominee to be a Member of the AMTRAK Board of
    Directors
-   Ronald L. Batory, Nominee to be a Member of the AMTRAK Board of
    Directors
-   Marcus D. Graham, Nominee to be a Member of the Farm Credit
    Administration
-   Matthew Kaplan, Nominee to be Federal Cochairperson of the Great
    Lakes Authority

**<u>Tonya P. Wilkerson, Nominee to be Under Secretary of Defense for
Intelligence and Security</u>**

Tonya P. Wilkerson serves as the ninth Deputy Director of the National
Geospatial-Intelligence Agency. Wilkerson brings a wealth of knowledge
and over three decades of experience across the intelligence community,
including leadership skills, experience across multiple mission areas,
and deep expertise in the space sector.

Wilkerson previously served as the Associate Deputy Director of the
Central Intelligence Agency for Science and Technology. She also held
many prominent positions within the National Reconnaissance Office,
spanning a range of activities including research and development,
acquisition, and operations.

Wilkerson has a Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering from
Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University and a Master of
Engineering Management from George Washington University.

**<u>Abigail L. Dressel, Nominee to be Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary to the Republic of Angola, and to serve concurrently and
without additional compensation as Ambassador to the Democratic Republic
of Sao Tome and Principe</u>**

Abigail L. Dressel, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service with
the rank of Minister-Counselor, is currently the Deputy Chief of Mission
at the U.S. Embassy in Buenos Aires, Argentina. Previously, she served
as Deputy Chief of Mission at the U.S. Embassy in Maputo, Mozambique.
Prior to that, she was Counselor for Public Affairs at the U.S.
Embassies in Colombia and Brazil. As the Director of the Office of
International Media Engagement in the Bureau of Public Affairs, Dressel
led the U.S. Department of State’s outreach to major international media
outlets. Previous assignments include tours at the U.S. Embassies in
Lisbon, Portugal; Luanda, Angola; Lima, Peru; and San Salvador; El
Salvador. Prior to joining the Foreign Service, Dressel worked in
international development. A native of Connecticut, Dressel holds a
bachelor’s degree from the George Washington University. She speaks
fluent Spanish and Portuguese.

**<u>James Holtsnider, Nominee to be Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary to the Independent State of Samoa</u>**

James Holtsnider is a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class
of Counselor. He currently serves as Deputy Chief of Mission of the U.S.
Embassy in Kuwait City, Kuwait. Previously he was the Deputy Director of
the Office of Iranian Affairs in the Bureau of Near Eastern Affairs at
the U.S. Department of State. Earlier, Holtsnider was the Management
Officer of the U.S. Mission in Somalia. He also served in Afghanistan as
a Political Advisor to the U.S. military’s Regional Command East in
Bagram and in Iraq as a Provincial Action Officer on U.S. Provincial
Reconstruction Team Ninewa, Mosul, Iraq. Holtsnider has also had
assignments at the U.S. Embassy in Rome, Italy as a General Services
Officer, at the U.S. Embassy in Tunis, Tunisia as a Consular Officer,
and as a Special Assistant to the Deputy Secretary of State for
Management and Resources. Prior to joining the State Department,
Holtsnider served for six years in the U.S. Marine Corps.  Holtsnider
received his bachelor’s degree from the University of Colorado, Boulder,
Colorado and his master’s degree from Princeton University. He speaks
Italian and French.

**<u>Elaine Marie Clegg, Nominee to be a Member of the AMTRAK Board of
Directors</u>**

As the CEO of Valley Regional Transit, Elaine Marie Clegg provides
leadership, strategic direction, and operational oversight for Treasure
Valley’s public transportation authority ensuring the directives of the
Board of Directors are achieved. Clegg has been a public servant focused
on transportation and land use for over 25 years, with nearly 20 years
on the Boise City Council where she led many initiatives, including the
Elaine Clegg City of Trees Challenge and an effort to reestablish
passenger rail in Idaho and the greater Northwest.

As a city council member Clegg served on numerous boards, executive
boards, advisory committees, and councils. She has held the Chair or
President position on the boards of Valley Regional Transit, COMPASS,
the Association of Idaho Cities at the state level, and the Association
of Metropolitan Planning Organizations, and National League of Cities
Transportation Infrastructure Services Committee nationally.

Clegg also led the statewide non-profit Idaho Smart Growth, serving on
national non-profit boards while advocating and planning better
transportation and land use policy and implementation, assisting over 50
Idaho communities directly to improve transportation plans, networks and
programs. Since 1998 Clegg has worked to improve access and mobility
across modes in the policies of the reauthorizations of the Surface
Transportation Bill, including gaining support for establishing the Safe
Routes to School Program and enhancing the rail portion of the
Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act.

Born and raised in Boise, Idaho, Clegg lives in Boise with her husband,
where she frequently walks, bikes, rides the bus, and, drives when she
must. She loves spending time with her five children, their spouses, and
her 14 grandchildren.

**<u>Ronald L. Batory, Nominee to be a Member of the AMTRAK Board of
Directors</u>**

Ronald L. Batory is a career professional with more than 45 years of
field and system experience in the railroad industry. He spent the first
23 years of his career working for both eastern and western Class 1
railroads in addition to serving along with a court appointed Trustee’s
successful oversight of a regional railroad bankruptcy. In 1994 he was
appointed President of The Belt Railway Company of Chicago, a multiple
owned subsidiary of then nine competing Class 1 carriers. His leadership
success of serving their needs in Chicago Gateway led to CSX and Norfolk
Southern Corporation later recruiting him to Consolidated Rail
Corporation in preparation of their STB approved partitioning of the
eastern carrier and establishing the Shared Assets Areas. He was later
appointed President & Chief Operating Officer for the entire corporate
entity. Upon his retirement in 2017, he pursued public service in
Washington, District of Columbia, Batory was nominated and appointed as
Administrator of The Federal Railroad Administration.

Batory is a graduate of Adrian College, with a bachelor’s degree along
with a master’s degree from Eastern Michigan University. He serves on
various governing and advisory boards associated within the sectors of
both industry and education. Batory resides in Santa Fe, New Mexico,
with his wife, Barbara.

**<u>Marcus D. Graham, Nominee to be a Member of the Farm Credit
Administration</u>**

Marcus D. Graham has served as Deputy Administrator for Field Operations
since January 2021, leading the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s (USDA)
Farm Service Agency-Field Operations. He is responsible for the
supervision and oversight of agency’s network of over 2,100 state and
county offices and provides leadership to more than 18,000 employees.
Graham has efficiently delivered agency programs, administrative
operations, and the use of agency resources to all states and Puerto
Rico. He has successfully onboarded 50 diverse regional appointed State
Executive Directors that provide effective program delivery and customer
service to all producers, farmers, and ranchers. Additionally, Graham
has created retention and recruitment incentives and hiring programs to
support existing and future agency employees.

Before joining USDA as Deputy Administrator, Graham served at USDA for
more than two decades. He has worked on the county, state, and national
levels with the Farm Service Agency (FSA) in various positions,
including Legislative Director-Office of External Affairs, Senior Policy
Advisor to the FSA Administrator, and Senior Loan Specialist in the Farm
Loan Division. In addition to his FSA employment, Graham served on the
U.S. Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry under
Chairwoman Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) where he assisted on legislation for
the Farm Bill’s Title V-Credit Title.

Graham graduated from Tennessee State University with a Master of
Science in Agribusiness and a Bachelor of Science in Agribusiness and
Economics. He also is a graduate of the President’s Management Council
Interagency Rotation Program and Graduate School USA’s Executive
Leadership Program.

**<u>Matthew Kaplan, Nominee to be Federal Cochairperson of the Great
Lakes Authority</u>**

Matthew Kaplan has a deep knowledge of the Great Lakes region’s economic
development, infrastructure and environmental needs, and the
opportunities for the newly created Great Lakes Authority. As a longtime
member of Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur’s (D-OH-09) staff, Kaplan worked
extensively on advancing the interests of the entire Great Lakes region
in Congress and throughout the federal government. Kaplan was a key
advisor to Congresswoman Kaptur in her leadership of the Energy and
Water Appropriations Subcommittee, the Bipartisan and Bicameral Great
Lakes Task Force, and in drafting the legislation to create the Great
Lakes Authority. In that role, he worked with stakeholders from
industry, labor, academia, and communities across the Great Lakes on
issues such as managing invasive species, marshaling federal resources
for economic development and developing alternative energy
opportunities. Kaplan also taught and mentored undergraduate students in
a politics course at Oberlin College. 

Kaplan currently serves as a Senior Attorney at the Natural Resources
Defense Council where he coordinates federal strategy on regenerative
agriculture. He previously served as an Honors Attorney at the U.S.
Department of Justice, and as a law clerk for the senior judges of the
District of Columbia Court of Appeals. He is a graduate of the
University of the District of Columbia David A. Clarke School of Law and
Oberlin College.

\###
