---
date: '2024-05-02'
modified_time: 2024-05-02 16:55:13-04:00
published_time: 2024-05-02 16:55:12-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/05/02/first-lady-jill-biden-hosts-first-ever-teachers-of-the-year-state-dinner/
tags: statements-releases
title: "First Lady Jill\_Biden Hosts First-Ever \u201CTeachers of the Year\u201D State\_\
  Dinner"
---
 
This evening, First Lady Jill Biden is hosting the first-ever “Teachers
of the Year” State Dinner at the White House.  This event will honor the
2024 National Teacher of the Year, Missy Testerman from Tennessee,
and the State Teachers of the Year from across the country for their
excellence in teaching and commitment to students’ learning.  Ahead of
tonight’s dinner and Teacher Appreciation Week, the Biden-Harris
Administration [announced
new](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/05/02/fact-sheet-biden-%E2%81%A0harris-administration-announces-new-actions-to-support-and-strengthen-the-teaching-profession/) efforts
to strengthen the teaching profession and support schools across the
country.

**In an excerpt from her prepared remarks, Dr. Biden welcomes teachers
to the White House, saying:** “Tonight, we celebrate you, because
teaching isn’t just a job. It’s a calling, and all of you were called to
this profession for a reason. You believe that a better world is
possible – and you make that world real, one student at a time. To
answer the call of teaching, is in itself, an act of hope. You look at
your students and don’t just see who they are today – you see all the
possibility of tomorrow. You help them find the light within themselves,
and that light lives on in all of you.”

As a classroom teacher for over 30 years, Dr. Biden continues to teach
English and writing at Northern Virginia Community College, where she
has been a professor since 2009. From championing teacher recruitment
and retention, opportunities for career-connected learning, and more
affordable options for education after high school, including free
community college, Dr. Biden continues to shine a spotlight on educators
and the teaching profession. This is the fourth year Dr. Biden
has welcomed the National and State Teachers of the Year for a
celebration at the White House.

The Council of Chief State School Officers (CCSSO), the U.S. Department
of Education, American Federation of Teachers, and the National
Education Association are supporting this event. CCSSO oversees the
National Teacher of the Year Program, which identifies exceptional
teachers across the country, recognizes their effective work in the
classroom, engages them in a year of professional learning, and
amplifies their voices.

*More information about the program and a list of the 2024 State
Teachers of the Year can be
found *[*HERE*](https://ntoy.ccsso.org/2024-state-teachers-of-the-year/)*.*

First Lady Jill Biden and Social Secretary Carlos Elizondo worked with
White House Chief Floral Designer Hedieh Ghaffarian to create a guest
experience that honors the 2024 Teachers of the Year and celebrates our
nation’s educators. Each of the 2024 State Teachers of the Year will
receive a commemorative brass bell from the First Lady, continuing a
tradition she started in 2021 in honor of her grandmother, a fellow
educator and the person who inspired her to become a teacher.  Irises,
the official state flower of Tennessee, Mrs. Testerman’s home state,
will be incorporated in the floral arrangements. A personalized gold
painted apple will serve as the place card holder at the place settings
for the 2024 Teachers of the Year. The décor will be inspired by
classrooms across the country, and the official flags of the states and
territories of the 2024 State Teachers of the Year will line the East
Portico entrance, greeting honorees and guests upon arrival to the White
House.  Organized by each teacher’s school principal, when the 2024
Teachers of the Year arrive to their seats, they will be surprised with
a handmade, personalized thank you note from their students, fellow
teachers, and school leadership. 

\###
