---
date: '2024-05-16'
published_time: 2024-05-16 09:26:54-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/05/16/u-s-canada-joint-statement-on-the-extension-of-the-bilateral-energy-transformation-task-force/
tags: statements-releases
title: "U.S.-Canada Joint Statement on the Extension of the Bilateral Energy Transformation\
  \ Task\_Force"
---
 
Canada and the United States are pleased to announce the renewal of the
bilateral Canada-U.S. Energy Transformation Task Force (ETTF) for an
additional year.

In August 2022, President Biden set the United States, and the world, on
an ambitious new course to grow the clean economy and create good jobs
by signing the Inflation Reduction Actinto law. Already, the Inflation
Reduction Acthas created more than 170,000 clean energy jobs that are
helping the United States meet its climate goals and strengthen energy
security. Canada has also taken recent action to implement its
cornerstone C$93 billion (US$69 billion) suite of major economic
investment tax credits for a clean economy to ensure Canadian workers
remain at the forefront of the global race to net-zero. Canada hopes
that four of its major economic investment tax credits will pass into
law by this summer. Together, Canada and the United States are building
our shared supply chains to enable the net-zero transition to create
more new opportunities for workers in a way that is shared by all.

In March 2023, President Biden and Prime Minister Trudeau launched the
one-year ETTF to accelerate cooperation on critical clean energy
opportunities and supply chains, including: security and strengthening
renewable energy and electric vehicle supply chains, critical minerals,
grid integration and resilience, nuclear energy, and other areas to
advance our collective energy security. Under the leadership of Deputy
Prime Minister Chrystia Freeland and White House Senior Advisor to the
President Amos Hochstein, in partnership with departments and ministries
in both countries, the inaugural ETTF meeting took place in May 2023.

Through the ETTF, Canada and the United States have advanced shared
priorities to deploy clean energy solutions at scale and support the
development of critical mineral and civil nuclear supply chains that
will fuel the development of an integrated, North American industry
capable of supporting the energy transition in our respective countries
and around the world.

To date, the ETTF has accelerated several accomplishments in these
sectors, including:

-   Convening a Canada-U.S. industry roundtable during the annual
    Prospectors and Developers Association of Canada convention in March
    2024;
-   Promoting uptake of strong environmental, social, and governance
    (ESG) standards through government-industry collaboration;
-   Multilaterally pledging at COP 28 to facilitate government-led
    investment in nuclear enrichment and conversion capacity; and
-   Supporting the deployment of civil nuclear energy in Romania with
    collaborative financing.

**<u>Expanding Cooperation on Critical Minerals</u>**

Today, Canada and the United States jointly announced the first
co-investments targeting the development of strategic critical mineral
deposits in Canada. Two Canadian companies have received funding to
advance the resilient development of North American critical
mineral supply chains.

The U.S. Department of Defense, via the *Defense Production Act*
Investment Office, announced US$14.8 million (C$20 million) in awards to
Canadian companies Fortune Minerals Limited (“Fortune”) and Lomiko
Metals, Inc. (“Lomiko”). The Department of Natural Resources Canada also
announced complementary funding of up to C$7.5 million (US$5.6 million)
to Fortune and C$4.9 million (US$3.6 million) to Lomiko under the C$3.8
billion (US$2.8 billion) Canadian Critical Minerals Strategy. This
investment builds on previous funding provided by the Government of
Canada to these two companies to build resilient supply chains and drive
clean economic growth.

These announcements by the United States and Canada demonstrate our
commitment to implementing a joint vision of developing sustainable,
integrated critical mineral supply chains that will serve North American
advanced manufacturing, clean energy, and defense sectors.

**<u>Developing Resilient and Innovative Civil Nuclear Supply
Chains</u>**

The ETTF has promoted the deployment of safe, zero-carbon nuclear energy
and the enhancement of secure nuclear fuel supply chains, particularly
through the participation of the U.S. and Canada in the multilateral
pledge made at COP28 to mobilize US$4.2 billion (C$5.7 billion) in
government-led investment in enrichment and conversion capacity over the
next three years aiming to catalyze private sector finance. The United
States and Canada pledged to make 2024 the year of implementation and
work jointly to support the development of complementary nuclear supply
chain capacities sufficient to support our industries and establish a
resilient North American nuclear supply chain free from Russian
influence. 

In February, Canada issued a 10-year, C$4 billion (US$3 billion) green
bond, which was the world’s first sovereign green bond to include
certain nuclear expenditures, affirming Canada’s commitment to serving
as a global nuclear leader. Canada continues to engage industry and
international partners to enable the announcement of concrete measures
later this spring to further advance nuclear energy and bolster North
American nuclear fuel supply chains.

This year, President Biden signed into law a series of actions that will
secure our energy resources and support U.S. and allied leadership in
the nuclear sector, including reauthorizing up to US$800 million (C$1.08
billion) for two small modular reactor deployments this decade and up to
US$2.72 billion (C$3.7 billion) to jumpstart uranium enrichment services
in the United States. The United States and Canada look forward to
working together to leverage these historic investments and further
strengthen ties between our industries.

**<u>Decarbonizing Steel and Aluminum</u>**

Canada and the United States are making significant investments to
decarbonize energy-intensive industries and support good-paying union
jobs that strengthen North American manufacturing competitiveness. In
this context, and noting the integrated nature of our steel and aluminum
supply chains, both countries recognize that steel and aluminum are
essential materials to grow the clean economy, and will continue to
collaborate to promote U.S.-Canada trade in green steel and aluminum.

**<u>Looking to the Year Ahead</u>**

Over the coming year, the United States and Canada will work to amplify
areas of common priority and agreement from the ETTF in our bilateral
and multilateral engagements focused on the clean energy transformation,
including through the Partnership for Global Infrastructure Investment
and Canada’s upcoming role as host of the G7 in 2025. In particular, our
countries look forward to capitalizing on significant, recent
investments our two sides have made in the nuclear fuel cycle and intend
to work closely with industry to strengthen cooperation on secure and
resilient nuclear supply chains.

\###
