---
date: '2024-05-30'
modified_time: 2024-05-30 10:15:56-04:00
published_time: 2024-05-30 05:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/05/30/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-takes-action-to-expand-access-to-capital-for-small-and-medium-sized-climate-businesses/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Takes Action to Expand Access\
  \ to Capital for Small- and Medium-Sized Climate\_Businesses"
---
 
Through President Biden’s Investing in America agenda, the U.S. is
making the largest public investment in climate action in history. The
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and Inflation Reduction Act, the
largest-ever investment in climate action, introduced and expanded
grants, loans, tax incentives, and other programs to accelerate clean
energy deployment, invest in resilience, and seed breakthrough
innovative technologies. Combined with unprecedented executive action,
these investments are setting the United States on a path to achieve
President Biden’s ambitious climate goals — including cutting greenhouse
gas emissions in half by 2030 and reaching net zero by 2050. President
Biden’s historic economic policies have spurred unprecedented levels of
private investment into America’s clean energy economy. Since the start
of the Biden-Harris Administration, the private sector has announced
[$866 billion](https://www.whitehouse.gov/invest/?utm_source=invest.gov)
in new investments in clean energy and manufacturing.

Creating economic opportunity for all American communities,
entrepreneurs, and workers is central to President Biden’s economic and
climate agenda. The Biden-Harris Administration is committed not only to
catalyzing investment for climate and clean energy companies, but also
to expanding access to that investment, ensuring all communities,
including those historically left behind, benefit from these
unprecedented resources.  

Today, National Economic Advisor Lael Brainard, National Climate Advisor
Ali Zaidi, and Small Business Administrator Isabel Casillas Guzman will
host a **Climate Capital Convening** at the White House with investors,
climate technology start-ups, small business owners, and entrepreneurs
to discuss opportunities to mobilize capital for climate-focused
businesses across America.

**<u>The Biden-Harris Administration will also announce new actions and
resources to expand access to climate capital:</u>**

**Releasing the new Climate Capital Guidebook:**

The Biden-Harris Administration is releasing a new [Climate Capital
Guidebook](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/05/CLIMATE-CAPITAL-GUIDEBOOK-v5.29.2024-730pm.pdf)
to provide a simple, comprehensive map of capital programs across the
federal government that are available to climate-related start-ups,
small- and medium-sized businesses, and their investors. While larger,
institutionally-backed climate companies may have the resources to
identify and access federal funding opportunities, smaller enterprises
may face greater challenges in navigating these federal programs.

The Guidebook includes financing and funding programs created and
expanded by the Biden-Harris Administration, including those made
possible by the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, the Inflation Reduction
Act, and longstanding annual appropriations. It inventories
opportunities across the entire federal government, including the
Department of Energy, the Department of Agriculture, the Small Business
Administration, and the Export-Import Bank of the United States.
Together, these programs comprise hundreds of billions of dollars in
grants, loans, loan guarantees, and other funding tools to spur the
financing and deployment of new clean energy and climate projects —
while simultaneously focusing on delivering cleaner air, good-paying
jobs, and affordable clean energy to disadvantaged communities, [energy
communities](https://energycommunities.gov/), and other communities in
need.  The Guidebook also indicates programs that are part of President
Biden’s [Justice40
Initiative](https://www.whitehouse.gov/environmentaljustice/justice40/),
which set the goal that 40% of the overall benefits of certain federal
climate, clean energy, and other investments flow to disadvantaged
communities that are marginalized by underinvestment and overburdened by
pollution.

**Expanding financing to support small businesses’ adoption of clean
energy:**

Small businesses are a critical part of achieving net zero by 2050 and
should have access to capital to deploy new clean energy and climate
projects.

The Small Business Administration’s [504 Loan
Program](https://www.sba.gov/funding-programs/loans/504-loans) provides
long-term, fixed rate loans of up to $5.5 million from Small Business
Administration-approved lenders to small businesses for certain energy
and manufacturing projects to support capital expenditures such as real
estate or equipment. Previously, this program was capped at three loans
per company, allowing each company to receive a total of $16.5 million
in loans backed by the Small Business Administration.  This month, the
Small Business Administration [is lifting its
cap](https://www.sba.gov/article/2024/05/30/biden-harris-administration-announces-new-actions-resources-advanceclean-energy-economy)
on the number of 504 loans that small businesses may receive for “energy
public policy projects,” which include projects that reduce energy
consumption such as retrofits and/or renewable energy projects such as
adding solar. In lifting this cap, small businesses may now bundle
multiple 504 loans to finance projects that leverage clean energy
technologies to lower production costs, improve energy efficiency, and
contribute to emissions reductions goals.

This change increases the total financing available to small businesses
tackling climate change and investing in a clean energy future.

**<u>Today’s announcements build on prior Biden-Harris Administration
actions to expand access to climate capital, including:</u>**

**Expanding Financing for Clean Energy and Climate Solutions:**

-   Thanks to the President’s Inflation Reduction Act, the Environmental
    Protection Agency is implementing the $27 billion **Greenhouse Gas
    Reduction Fund**, a first-of-a-kind national financing program to
    catalyze private investment in clean energy projects. The agency
    announced $14 billion for a [**National Clean Investment
    Fund**](https://www.epa.gov/greenhouse-gas-reduction-fund/national-clean-investment-fund),
    $6 billion for the [**Clean Communities Investment
    Accelerator**](https://www.epa.gov/greenhouse-gas-reduction-fund/clean-communities-investment-accelerator),
    and $7 billion for the [**Solar for All
    Program**](https://www.epa.gov/greenhouse-gas-reduction-fund/solar-all).
    Together, these investments are creating new clean energy job
    opportunities and reducing pollution in low-income and disadvantaged
    communities, as part of President Biden’s [**Justice40
    Initiative**](https://www.whitehouse.gov/environmentaljustice/justice40/).

<!-- -->

-   The Inflation Reduction Act contains new and expanded **tax
    credits** to support investment in new clean electricity generation
    projects, clean energy manufacturing plants, electric vehicle
    charging stations, and other clean energy projects. The law also
    contains new credit monetization provisions for [**direct
    pay**](http://www.cleanenergy.gov/directpay) and
    **transferability**, which are expanding eligibility to tax-exempt
    entities like cities, states, and nonprofit organizations and
    helping to lower the cost of financing clean energy
    investments.[](http://www.cleanenergy.gov/directpay)

<!-- -->

-   Made possible by funding from the [**American Rescue
    Plan**](https://www.whitehouse.gov/american-rescue-plan/), the
    Department of the Treasury allocated nearly $10 billion through the
    [**State Small Business Credit
    Initiative**](https://home.treasury.gov/policy-issues/small-business-programs/state-small-business-credit-initiative-ssbci)
    to deliver funding to states, territories, and Tribal governments
    that spurs lending and support to small businesses. Several states
    are using funds from the State Small Business Credit Initiative to
    support climate-focused initiatives, for example: Connecticut is
    leveraging $89 million to launch a climate equity and venture
    capital program, Illinois is using $20 million to support its
    Climate Bank Finance Participation Loan Program, and New Jersey is
    committing $80 million to its Clean Energy Loans Program.  
      
-   The Department of the Treasury, through the [**Community Development
    Financial Institutions Fund**](https://www.cdfifund.gov/about) (CDFI
    Fund), is promoting access to capital in low-income communities
    through monetary awards and tax credits to certified CDFIs. The
    program recently began collecting data on climate-centered financing
    by CDFIs — including projects related to climate resilience, extreme
    weather response or preparation, emission reduction, sustainability,
    energy or water efficiency, and clean energy projects.

<!-- -->

-   The Department of Defense and the Small Business Administration are
    jointly rolling out the [**Small Business Investment Company
    Critical Technologies
    Initiative**](https://www.defense.gov/News/Releases/Release/Article/3543777/department-of-defense-and-small-business-administration-roll-out-the-small-busi/)
    to increase capital investment in technologies critical to U.S.
    economic and national security. The initiative provides equity,
    debt, and other capital investments in specified critical technology
    areas, including renewable energy generation and storage.

**Funding Clean Energy and Climate Projects Across the Economy:**

-   The Small Business Administration’s flagship [**7(a) Loan
    Program**](http://www.sba.gov/funding-programs/loans/7a-loans)
    provides small businesses access to financing for a wide variety of
    projects, including acquiring new real estate, working capital,
    refinancing, and purchasing new equipment. In August 2023, the Small
    Business Administration announced its [**Affiliation Rule and SBLC
    Rule**](https://www.sba.gov/article/2023/08/01/biden-harris-administration-launches-small-business-loan-program-improvements-expand-access-capital).
    This rule included changes to how affiliation is assessed and
    removed “control” as a factor in determining eligibility of a
    borrower under current size standards. In effect, this change will
    enable more small businesses, especially innovative venture-backed
    companies, to access the credit they need to start up and grow. 

<!-- -->

-   The Small Business Administration plans to establish a new
    [**Working Capital Pilot
    Program**](https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2024/03/26/2024-06421/data-collection-available-for-public-comments)
    under its signature 7(a) lending program to provide lines of credit
    to small businesses, including clean energy and climate technology
    manufacturers, to support their domestic or export finance needs.
    The program will be paired with business counseling from the Small
    Business Administration.

<!-- -->

-   The Department of Energy is accepting Round 2 applications on behalf
    of the Internal Revenue Service for the [**Qualifying Advanced
    Energy Project Tax
    Credit**](https://www.energy.gov/infrastructure/qualifying-advanced-energy-project-credit-48c-program),
    funded by the Inflation Reduction Act. After $4 billion in tax
    credits were allocated to taxpayers in Round 1 in Spring 2024, the
    program will allocate an additional $6 billion in tax credits to
    projects in three areas: clean energy manufacturing, critical
    materials, and industrial decarbonization. A portion of the funds
    have also been set aside for projects in certain designated
    [**energy
    communities**](https://arcgis.netl.doe.gov/portal/apps/experiencebuilder/experience/?id=a44704679a4f44a5aac122324eb00914&page=home).

<!-- -->

-   The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and Inflation Reduction Act
    created the [**Clean Ports
    Program**](https://www.epa.gov/ports-initiative/cleanports) and the
    [**Reduction of Truck Emissions at Port Facilities
    Program**](https://highways.dot.gov/newsroom/grants-help-reduce-truck-air-pollution-ports),
    both of which help advance the [**Justice40
    Initiative**](https://www.whitehouse.gov/environmentaljustice/justice40/).
    Through the Clean Ports Program, the Environmental Protection Agency
    is awarding $3 billion to fund zero-emission port equipment and
    infrastructure as well as climate and air quality planning projects
    at ports. Through the Reduction of Truck Emissions at Port
    Facilities Program, the Department of Transportation is investing
    $400 million in port electrification and efficiency; $148 million in
    awards were made earlier in 2024, and companies can apply to a
    second funding opportunity that will go live later this year.

<!-- -->

-   The Departments of Energy and Transportation are [**working
    together**](https://driveelectric.gov) with states to build out the
    infrastructure for an electric mobility future while furthering the
    [**Justice40
    Initiative**](https://www.whitehouse.gov/environmentaljustice/justice40/).
    The [**National Electric Vehicle Infrastructure Formula
    Program**](https://driveelectric.gov/state-plans) is providing a
    total of $5 billion over five years to states to deploy electric
    vehicle charging infrastructure along corridors, and the [**Charging
    and Fueling Infrastructure
    Program**](https://www.fhwa.dot.gov/environment/cfi/) is providing
    an additional $2.5 billion over five years to fill gaps in the
    national network by installing chargers in various communities. The
    [**SMART Program**](https://www.transportation.gov/grants/SMART) is
    granting states $500 million over five years to conduct
    demonstration projects focused on advanced smart community
    technologies and systems that improve transportation efficiency and
    safety. And the [**Communities Taking Charge Accelerator
    Program**](https://driveelectric.gov/communities-taking-charge) is
    providing $54 million in funding for projects that expand community
    e-mobility access and provide reliable clean energy, accelerating
    the transition to electric vehicles, including in disadvantaged
    communities.

<!-- -->

-   The Department of Housing and Urban Development and the Department
    of Energy are collaborating with state and local partners to ensure
    that funding for affordable housing development can also be used to
    deploy clean energy technologies like heat pumps. Programs like the
    [**Green and Resilient Retrofit
    Program**](https://www.hud.gov/GRRP),theannual[**Innovative Housing
    Showcase**](https://www.huduser.gov/portal/ihs.html/), and the
    [**Buildings Upgrade
    Prize**](https://www.energy.gov/eere/buildings/buildings-upgrade-prize-buildings)
    highlight how funds for affordable housing can simultaneously
    benefit clean energy and climate companies.

**Building Federal Resource Hubs and Providing Technical Assistance:**

-   The Small Business Administration launched its [**Investing in
    America Small Business
    Hub**](https://www.sba.gov/sba-learning-platform/investing-america)**,**
    a new digital resource to help small businesses identify and access
    industry-specific tax credit, rebate, contracting, and grant
    opportunities made possible by President Biden’s Investing in
    America agenda.

<!-- -->

-   The Environmental Protection Agency published a list of [**Clean
    Energy Finance Tools and
    Resources**](https://www.epa.gov/statelocalenergy/clean-energy-finance-tools-and-resources)
    to help state and local governments access financing for clean
    energy and climate programs. This includes a toolkit for state and
    local decision-makers on financing opportunities such as green
    banks, revolving loan funds, municipal bonds, and green bonds.

<!-- -->

-   The Department of the Treasury launched the [**IRA Taxpayer Resource
    Hub**](https://app.high.powerbigov.us/view?r=eyJrIjoiYzY1ODQ0ODYtZTk1My00NDAwLWE0ZGEtYjE0YjNhOGNhZDBjIiwidCI6IjU4ZjFlM2ZhLTU4Y2ItNGNiNi04OGNjLWM5MWNhYzIwN2YxOCJ9)**,**
    a one-stop-shop for information on the Inflation Reduction Act’s
    clean energy tax benefits. The Hub details how businesses can take
    advantage of clean energy tax credits to help finance new
    investments in clean power systems, energy efficiency upgrades, or
    electric vehicles.

<!-- -->

-   The Department of Housing and Urban Development launched the
    [**Build for the Future
    Hub**](https://www.hudexchange.info/programs/build-for-the-future/)
    to connect users — including state and local governments, Tribal
    entities, private entities, and non-profits — to [**funding
    opportunities**](https://www.hudexchange.info/programs/build-for-the-future/funding-navigator/),
    technical assistance, and other information related to clean energy,
    climate resilience, energy efficiency, green workforce development,
    and more.

<!-- -->

-   The National Institute of Standards and Technology’s Manufacturing
    Extension Partnership provides a government-to-business and
    business-to-business portal for [**supplier
    scouting**](https://www.nist.gov/mep/supply-chain/supplier-scouting).
    Public and private organizations can access this portal for business
    or technology connections, including in clean energy and
    climate-related industries. [**Local Manufacturing Extension
    Partnership Centers**](https://www.nist.gov/mep/centers/map)
    facilitate government, original equipment manufacturer, and small
    and medium-sized manufacturer [**matchmaking
    events**](https://www.nist.gov/blogs/manufacturing-innovation-blog/what-you-should-know-about-supply-chain-optimization-and)
    for clean energy companies.

<!-- -->

-   The Department of Labor offers workforce development opportunities
    for clean energy and climate technology companies. The [**Office of
    Apprenticeship**](https://www.apprenticeship.gov/investments-tax-credits-and-tuition-support/registered-apprenticeship-industry-intermediaries)
    connects employers with workforce and education partners and
    provides technical assistance to launch and expand Registered
    Apprenticeship programs. The [**Battery Workforce
    Initiative**](https://netl.doe.gov/bwi) — an industry-driven,
    government-facilitated partnership coordinated by the Department of
    Energy — is accelerating the development and use of high-quality,
    standardized training materials in key occupations for companies and
    local training providers in the battery manufacturing industry.

<!-- -->

-   The Department of Agriculture and Department of Energy jointly
    launched the [**Rural and Agricultural Income & Savings from
    Renewable Energy (RAISE)
    Initiative**](https://www.usda.gov/media/press-releases/2024/02/26/department-agriculture-department-energy-launch-initiative-help).This
    initiative provides technical assistance, funding for research and
    outreach, and resources to help farmers take advantage of clean
    energy to lower costs.

**Seeding Commercial Innovation:**

-   The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office provides business incentives
    and helps accelerate the examination of patent applications for
    innovations that mitigate climate change, including through the
    [**Climate Change Mitigation Pilot
    Program**](https://www.uspto.gov/patents/laws/patent-related-notices/climate-change-mitigation-pilot-program)
    and the [**Patents for Humanity: Green Energy
    Program**](https://www.uspto.gov/ip-policy/patents-humanity-green-energy).

<!-- -->

-   The U.S. Economic Development Administration designated 31
    communities across the United States as [**Regional Technology and
    Innovation
    Hubs**](https://www.eda.gov/funding/programs/regional-technology-and-innovation-hubs)
    (Tech Hubs)to drive regional innovation, private investment, and job
    creation to strengthen each region’s capacity to manufacture,
    commercialize, and deploy technology that advances national
    security. The hubs in Florida, Idaho/Wyoming, Louisiana, Missouri,
    Nevada, New York, and South Carolina/Georgia cite a growing need for
    clean energy technologies to build global economic competitiveness.

<!-- -->

-   The U.S. Economic Development Administration’s [**Build to Scale
    Program**](https://www.eda.gov/funding/programs/build-to-scale)
    makes awards to strengthen regional innovation ecosystems that
    equitably support diverse technology innovators, entrepreneurs, and
    start-ups, including in clean energy and other climate-related
    industries.

\###
