---
date: '2024-05-18'
modified_time: 2024-05-19 18:31:25-04:00
published_time: 2024-05-18 18:17:43-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/05/18/remarks-by-president-biden-at-a-campaign-reception-atlanta-ga/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at a Campaign Reception | Atlanta,\_GA"
---
 
Arthur Blank Family Office  
Atlanta, Georgia

4:53 P.M. EDT  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.  (Applause.)  Thank you, thank you, thank
you.  
  
Who’s that good-looking guy on the end there?  (Laughter.)  How old are
you?  
  
AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Thirteen, sir.    
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Thirteen.  You got to remember me when you’re president,
okay?    
  
Thank you, Arthur, for that introduction and for representing something
so special.  You’re a business titan who is a true community leader, who
works for everybody every day to lift up everyone.  And whether it’s the
Falcons or United, your — your philanthropy has made a — always made a
big difference — a big — a big difference in this city.  And it’s always
about the fans; it’s always about the people.  That’s America.   
  
And I also want to thank members of Congress who are here: Nikema; Lucy
— I’m looking around here — Sanford Bishop is right here — there — there
you go; Joyce Beatty, I — former senator and dear friend Sam Nunn.  By
the way, the — I could hear — I could barely hear, but I thought I heard
the reference to Sam.  
  
You know, Sam and I came the same year to the United States Senate, and
we served together a long, long time.  (Applause.)  I got there in — in
January of 1973.  And, you know, I can say without fear of contradiction
there wasn’t a single member on either of the aisle that didn’t respect
Sam Nunn’s judgement, his integrity.  And the thing the most known about
Sam was he was a man of absolute, total integrity.  But he also was the
most informed man on foreign policy and national security of anybody
I’ve ever served with and continues to be.  
  
Sam, it was an honor serving with you, pal.  It really was. 
(Applause.)  
  
As well as Ambassador Gordon Giffin.  He was a — a deputy, a former —
and, by the way, you have a — someone here, a former Deputy Attorney
General of the Obama-Biden administration, who I warned her, “If I win,
watch out” —  (laughter) — Sally Yates.  Sally, stand up.  (Inaudible.) 
(Applause.)  
  
And let me start with another quote of John Lewis.  My wife sent the
messages — we — because we’re always passing in the night, almost, we’re
working so many different places.  And when she wants a message to get
to me, she tapes it on the mirror where I shave.  (Laughter.)  And she
has John Lewis’s — another quote John Lewis has that is literally taped
on my bathroom mirror.  It says, “Democracy is not a state; it’s an
act.  And each generation must do its part.”  And that’s why we’re here,
in my view.  We have to do our part because democracy is at stake.  
  
Folks, thank you for your support.  I tell people that if you ever doubt
the power of the vote, come visit Georgia, because what you’ve all done
is incredible.  You’re the reason — not a joke — Georgia is the reason
I’m President of the United States right now.  (Applause.)  You’re the
reason why we have a historic Vice President, Kamala Harris.  And you’re
the reason — (applause) — and you’re the reason we were able to defeat
the former President, and you’re the reason we’re going to beat him
again.  (Applause.)  
  
We feel good about the state of the race.  There’s a lot to do.  We know
we’re far from over, but we know the race is close.  Polls vary from me
being up to down to tied.  But it’s harder to make any poll rational
these days.  I’m — I’m serious, because you have to make so many calls. 
Landlines are not there.  Anyway, it goes on and on.  
  
But there are a few things we find very encouraging.  First, we run
strongest among likely voters in all those polls.  Second — and that’s a
good sign.  So, we are — while the national polls basically have us tied
with registered voters, in most of those same polls, we’re up four
points with likely voters.  But they’re all still too close.  
  
Second, if you look at the actual votes in primaries, as opposed to the
polls, we’re running much stronger than Mr. Trump is. 

Trump continues to lose a big chunk of Republicans in his primaries. 
For example, he just lost 120,000 votes to Nikki Haley, who’s been out
of the race for some time, in the Indiana primary, long after she
dropped out.  In Pennsylvania primary, he lost 150,000 votes to Nikki
Haley long after she dropped out.  And in Pennsylvania primary, I got
over 100,000 more votes in the Democratic primary than he got in the
Republican primary.   
  
And, by the way, think about it — if you can hold for just a second
here.  If you think about it, they’ve been wrong about everything so far
in the polling.  We were supposed to lose in 2020.  We won.  We were
supposed to — remember the red wave coming in 2022?  We were going to
get wiped out?  We did better than any incumbent president did in a —
for — in a pa- — party control that we lost, I think, four or five
seats.  We were supposed to lose 25, 30 seats.   
  
I know a lot of people like to look at the polls, but I look at the
actual votes.  Let me say, there’s always going to be a place for Haley
voters in my campaign.  (Laughs.)  They’re welcome.  (Laughter and
applause.)  Just as we welcome Lieutenant Governor Duncan.  I’m grateful
for his support as well.   
  
And, by the way, we’re building the — (applause) —  
  
We’re bring- — we’re building the strongest ground campaign in the
history of our country.  So far, over 1.6 million individuals have
contributed money to our campaign and 550,000 more than the last time. 

And as Sam Nunn knows, you get — you got how many people are actually
engaged.  Well, guess what?  97 percent of those contributions are under
$200.  People are making contributions in $5, $10, $15, $20 a week — I
mean a month.  They’re keeping it up.  And that’s ninety- — and we’ve
raised more money than anybody has ever raised at this point in a
campaign, because of you, because of them.   
  
In the battleground states, we’ve opened more than 150 field offices
while Trump has opened zero — not one single field office.  We’re
organizing, and we’re ready.  Trump’s MAGA Republicans are in disarray
right now.   
  
Now, let’s get the message of ca- — of the campaign.  It’s very
straightforward.  The threat Trump poses is greater in a second term
than it was in the first term. 

It’s clear, when he lost in 2020, something snapped in Trump.  I’m not
being facetious; I’m being serious.  He just can’t accept the fact he
lost, and he lost it — he lost it.  That’s why January 6th happened. 
Every legal avenue Trump tried to change the election failed, so he
unleashed an insurrection.   
  
I sit in that dining room — Sam knows this — off of — over the — off the
Oval.  He sat there for three hours watching what was happening and not
saying a word.  
  
I was supposed to make a speech on the economy that day.  I was elected
president, not sworn in yet.  And I made — went and I — I was in
Delaware.  I made a nationally televised speech on what was happening
and why it had to stop.   
  
Now he’s running again.  He’s not only obsessed with losing in 2020;
he’s clearly been unhinged.  And I’m not being facetious; I’m being
serious.  Just listen to him.  He just did a long interview in TIME
Magazine.  Buy TIME Magazine this week.  Take a look at what he — he has
said.  
  
In that article, he said, “A lot of people liked it when I said I’ll be
a dictator on day one.”  “A lot of people liked it.”  Asked if he
thought violence would occur if he lost, he said, “It depends.”  He
calls the insurrectionists who are in prison — he calls them “patriots,”
and if reelected, he said he wants to pardon “every” — quote, “every
one” of them.  He’s saying this — not — I’m not saying it.  It’s what’s
coming out of his mouth.  
  
Trump says what — and Trump says when he loses again in November — if he
loses again, and he will, God willing — there will be a, quote,
“bloodbath.”  That’s what he sai- — his words — not mine, his words.   
  
He said there’s nothing — no one’s — he’s not going to accept the
results of the election when he loses again — if he loses again.  
  
It’s clear the — the people auditioning to be his vice president, look
what they’re doing.  They’re lining up.  They’re lining up saying — even
though they had said before they acknowledged we won the election,
they’re now saying, “No, well, I really didn’t mean that.  Biden never
did win the election.”  They have to say that they don’t accept the 2020
results, and when they lose again, they won’t accept the results in
<s>2020</s> \[2024\] either, because they’re being asked.  
  
You see it on television all the time: “What — what will you do if you
lose?  Will you accept the result?”  
  
And look at what he says about reproductive freedom.  He’s bragging he’s
the reason Roe v. Wade was overturned.  And he is, because of his
appointments.  Listen to what he said in TIME Magazine article.  He said
states — quote — “States should monitor women’s pregnancies and
prosecute those who violate the abortion bans.”  Monitor women’s
pregnancies?  Prosecute them?  
  
Folks, Trump isn’t running to lead America.  He’s running for revenge. 
And it’s revenge — and, look, but revenge is no way to lead a country. 
You can’t build a future based on revenge.  You can’t build a — better
lives through revenge.  That’s what he’s — he — they were his words,
what he’s talking about.  
  
That’s why I’m not running on revenge.  I’m running to lead America to —
into the future.   
  
Look at the progress we’ve made so far: 15 million new jobs — a record —
(applause) — 15 million.  More people have health insurance today than
ever before in history in our — in our entire country — more people. 
And he wants to get rid of that as well.  It’s Obamacare now called
something different — it could be added more money to.  
  
He took on w- — we took on Big Pharma.  Sam remembers tho- — those
fights.  I used to drive my colleagues crazy on the floor talking about
why drug companies could charge the rates they charged.  Well, guess
what?  We won.  We’ve lowered prescription drug costs, like $35 a month
for insulin instead of $400 a month and so much more.   
  
And, by the way, if any of you have a prescription and you want to get
in Air Force One with me and fly to any major city in the Western
Hemisphere and/or in Europe, and I’ll get you that same exact drug from
that same exact company for 40 to 60 percent less.   
  
But it not only saves lives — guess what? — it saves taxpayers a hundred
— that one thing we did saves taxpayers $160 billion because Medicare no
longer has to pay those exorbitant prices.   
  
Look, I’m so proud of the new report co-released by 20 major climate
organizations, from the Sierra Club to the Sunrise Movement.  Cre- — it
credited my administration with making more than 300 ac- — taking 300
actions related to climate, conservation, public health, and clean
energy.  And they’ve endorsed me, every one of them.  (Applause.) 
(Inaudible.)  
  
Meanwhile, Trump is determined to get rid of my climate law because the
oil companies don’t like it.  They hate it.  He’s been reported — again,
look at what he — he’s saying.  It’s reported he asked Big Oil to direct
$1 billion to his campaign, and he said, if they did that, they’d have
“a deal.”  What’s the deal?  He would repeal everything we’ve done on
climate so far.  In the TIME article, he says, we would just drill,
drill, drill.   
  
Look, folks, we’ve also made the most significant investment in science
and technology innovation in generations.  How can we lead the world if
we’re not leading the world in science and technology?  It’s already
attracted — our efforts have already attracted more than $866 billion in
private-sector investment in clean energy, advanced manufacturing — a
historic amount in such a short period of time.  And we’re just getting
started.   
  
And I promise you, elect me a Democratic Congress, and Kamala and I will
make sure Roe v. Wade is the law of the land again.  (Applause.)   
  
Look, folks, we’re lowering costs, expanding opportunities, protecting
freedoms.  We have to keep it going, because it’s all at stake.   
  
Let me close with this.  Our freedoms and our democracy are at stake in
a literal sense.  Not — not hyperbole; it’s real.  That’s why I need you
so badly and why I appreciate what you’re doing.  I know we can do this
together.  And I’ve never been more optimistic about the future in my
entire career.  And I mean that.  Not because I’m president, but because
of the nature of the s- —  
  
Look, I wasn’t going to run again after my son died because of being in
Iraq for a year in those burn pits.  I wasn’t going to do it.  But — and
I was — started to write a book, Sam — another book called “Inflection
Points in History That Changed History.”  And I started off talking
about how the printing press changed the circumstance in Europe in the
17th century and united Europe and wa- — and I was working my way
through and how they fundamentally changed what’s happening in the
world.  
  
Well, when I saw those folks come out of the fields in Charlottesville
with lighted torches, carrying Nazi swastikas, singing the same
antisemitic bile they sang in Europe in the ‘30s, and a young woman was
killed.  I talked to her mother.  And bec- — and the President was asked
what did he think of what happened, and he said, “There were really good
people on both sides.”  
  
That’s when I decided to run.  That’s when (inaudible).  (Applause.)  
  
There’s nothing guaranteed about democracy.  And in times of exquisite
change, which is occurring all around the world — look what’s happening
around the world.  There are actually fewer democracies today in the
world than there were 10 years ago.   
  
We just have to remember who in the hell we are.  We’re the United
States of America.  There is nothing — nothing beyond our capacity when
we set our minds to it and do it together.  
  
Folks, look, we’re in a situation where the idea — we’re the only nation
in the world that I can determine — and I’m not bad at history — where
we’ve come out of every crisis stronger than we went into the crisis —
stronger than we went in.  No other nation.  That’s who we are.   
  
But we’re not acting like that.  And the divisions that exists — I —
just ask the congressman, ask the folks here about what’s going on in
the House of Representatives.  They’ve already produced a budget that
they — they say they’re going to pass.  If it passed, they say it’ll
cost $2 trillion, put us in the ho- — trillion.   
  
Look, folks, there’s a lot we can do.  And I really mean it.  I’m
optimistic if we stay the course.  We just have to stay the course.  And
you’re allowing me to make the case.  You’re allowing me to make the
case.  
  
As Sam may remember, a lot of my friends in the Senate at the time, I
was never really good at raising a lot of money.  The last time out,
when you helped me out, we spent — we raised $1,750,000,000.  I never
thought that would ever happen.  
  
Well, we’re on the path to do the same thing again.  Because we have
to.  We have to.  We cannot let this man become president.  Our
children’s future is at stake.  Not a joke.  And you’re allowing me to
make the case.  
  
There’s a lot more to say, but I’ve already said too much probably.  And
I want to thank you very much.   
  
The last thing you need — first of all, you know — I’ll just say: Your
contributions are significant, and they really matter, especially those
of my host.  They really matter.  But what matters almost as much is the
person asking for the contribution: you all.  When you contribute to me
— and people know you do; your name is listed — they know that person is
worthy of support.   
  
You underestimate the impact you have on your peers.  You underestimate
the impact you have on the people that are out in the community.
 Because if so-and-so will give that, there must be something good about
that guy.  So, it really matters.  Because all of you, by contributing
to me, are putting yourself on the line.  You’re saying, “I’m vouching
for this guy.” 

I give you my word, I will do all in my power never to let you down. 
But we have to win this race — not for me but for America.   
  
Thank you so much.  (Applause.)  
  
By the way, I want to tell you one thing.  This young man just told me
his name, and he said, “And, by the way, I raised $6,000 for you.” 
(Laughter and applause.)  
  
5:11 P.M. EDT
