---
date: '2024-05-17'
published_time: 2024-05-17 12:06:12-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/05/17/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-new-actions-to-ensure-environmental-protections-of-the-antarctic-region/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Announces New Actions to Ensure\
  \ Environmental Protections of the Antarctic\_Region"
---
 
Today, ahead of the 46th Antarctic Treaty Consultative Meeting,
President Biden signed a National Security Memorandum (NSM) on United
States Policy on the Antarctic Region.  Under this policy, the United
States will continue to lead cooperative international efforts through
the Antarctic Treaty System (ATS) to maintain the Antarctic Region for
peaceful purposes; protect its relatively pristine environment and
ecosystems, particularly given the key role Antarctica plays in the
global climate system; and conduct critical scientific research, long
into the future.  

The ATS has successfully maintained the peace in the Antarctic Region by
freezing conflicting territorial claims, prohibiting military activities
other than in support of scientific research or for any other peaceful
purpose, prioritizing science and environmental protection over
commercial interests, prohibiting mining for non-scientific purposes,
and promoting transparency and cooperation.  It also provides tools to
verify compliance with these ambitious provisions, tools the United
States has used more than any other country, having conducted 15
unannounced inspections of facilities in Antarctica.  We remain vigilant
against actions by countries that could threaten U.S. national interests
by bringing international discord to the Antarctic Region.  The United
States, represented by the Department of State at ATS bodies, will work
with international partners through the ATS to promote peace and science
in the region, and promote international cooperation while safeguarding
U.S. national interests. 

With this NSM, the United States aims to:

-   Protect the relatively unspoiled environment of the Antarctic Region
    and its associated ecosystems;
-   Preserve and pursue unique opportunities for scientific research and
    understand Antarctica’s relationship to global environmental change;
-   Maintain the Antarctic Region as an area of international
    cooperation reserved exclusively for peaceful purposes; and
-   Assure the protection and conservation of the living resources in
    and ecosystems of the Antarctic Region.

The United States has the largest scientific program in the Antarctic
Region. The U.S. Antarctic Program is managed on behalf of the nation by
the U.S. National Science Foundation (NSF) and includes three year-round
stations on the continent and assets dedicated to exploring and
understanding the Southern Ocean and its role in the earth system.  The
NSF, in partnership with other Federal science agencies, also supports
world-class research in Antarctica in aeronomy and astrophysics,
ecology, atmospheric sciences, biology and medicine, geology and
geophysics, glaciology, and ocean and climate systems, and living marine
resources.  Additionally, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration (NOAA) has for decades monitored and studied Antarctic
marine living resources and ecosystems, and in partnership with the NSF,
provided the best scientific evidence available to policy makers about
how to protect this vulnerable region, including the data underpinning
the efforts to establish a representative system of effective marine
protected areas.  In addition, the Environmental Protection Agency,
working closely with NSF, reviews and evaluates the potential
environmental impacts when U.S. nongovernmental operators (including
tour operators) plan to conduct expeditions to Antarctica.

The results of research conducted by the United States and other
countries have conclusively demonstrated that ongoing climate and other
global changes and their associated impacts are affecting the Antarctic
Region and the world, including through ocean warming, sea-level rise,
ocean acidification, stratospheric ozone depletion, air and water
pollution, and threats to biodiversity. Research conducted by the United
States has also helped shed light on the risks and uncertainties of
climate tipping points such as the collapse of the West Antarctic ice
sheet. 

The United States has encouraged and will continue to encourage
countries to take immediate steps to use the best available science to
protect the Antarctic Region’s vulnerable environment and ecosystems,
which is critical to a stable global climate, such as by encouraging
countries to set ambitious 2035 nationally determined contributions
(NDCs) under the Paris Agreement that are aligned with limiting global
warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius, and establishing a system of effective
marine protected areas in the Antarctic Region.    

The Biden-Harris Administration will work with Congress to continue its
support of our three world-class, year-round scientific research
stations; research in the Antarctic Region on ocean ecosystems and
Antarctic marine living resources; and modernization of the nation’s
polar icebreaker fleet.  The Administration will also work with Congress
to meet international commitments and to ensure the appropriate domestic
legislation and regulations to safeguard the wide range of U.S.
interests in the Antarctic Region.

The policy signed today replaces PDD/NSC-26 (1994) and builds on the
Biden-Harris Administration’s commitment to modernize outdated policies
and address climate change.

\###
