---
date: '2024-05-06'
modified_time: 2024-05-08 13:16:17-04:00
published_time: 2024-05-06 17:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/05/06/background-press-call-by-senior-administration-officials-on-the-third-ministerial-of-the-los-angeles-declaration-on-migration-and-protection-in-guatemala/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Background Press Call by Senior Administration Officials on the Third Ministerial\
  \ of the Los Angeles Declaration on Migration and Protection in\_Guatemala"
---
 
Via Teleconference

MODERATOR:  Thank you very much.  Good morning, everyone.  Thanks for
joining the call this morning.

Apologies for the rescheduling from yesterday.  This call will be on
background, attributable to “senior administration officials.”  For your
awareness, not for reporting purposes, on the line we have \[senior
administration official\], we have the \[senior administration
official\], and the \[senior administration official\].  Again, that is
not for reporting purposes and this call will be attributable to “senior
administration officials.” 

As a reminder, the contents of this call will be embargoed until the end
of the call.  With that, we will get started. 

I would like to start this is — I would like to start this morning by
stressing that the U.S. government’s delegation attending the third Los
Angeles Declaration Ministerial in Guatemala — which will be led by the
President’s top diplomat, Secretary Blinken; along with Special
Assistant to the President and Los Angeles Declaration Coordinator,
Marcela Escobari; and Deputy Secretary of Homeland Security, Kristie
Canegallo — demonstrates the priority that the President places on
addressing migration in a humane way. 

With that, I’ll pass it over to our first speaker.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Great, thank you.  Thank you and good
morning.  I would like to start off by reinforcing that the efforts to
advance a regionally coordinated and humane approach to managing
migration is a top priority for the President.

We are thrilled to be here in Guatemala City and deeply grateful to
President Arévalo (inaudible) for hosting us and over 20 countries for
this third ministerial of the Los Angeles Declaration on Migration and
Protection.  The declaration is based on the premise that by working
together with our partners across the hemisphere, we can address the
challenge impacting all of the Americas and that our coordinated efforts
can be more than the sum of our parts. 

President Biden, alongside 20 partners in the region, launched this
hemispheric initiative in 2022, pledging to manage migration in a safe,
humane, and orderly way.

(Inaudible) migration present a complex challenge but one we believe we
can manage if we coordinate our efforts while creating lawful
alternatives — while we coordinate our efforts on enforcement while
creating lawful alternatives for people to migrate, settle, and thrive,
and, of course, addressing the root causes. 

For the next couple of days, the 22 endorsing countries to the LA
Declaration will share the progress we’ve made through our combined
efforts and identify next steps.  Let me share and highlight some of
that joint progress around the three pillars of the Los Angeles
Declaration, and there will be a factsheet of some of the deliverables
tomorrow.

Under the first pillar, we’re working to foster regional stability by
addressing the root causes driving people to leave their homes and
supporting the integration of migrants into host communities.  Tracking
root causes for migration was a priority for President Biden when he was
vice president, and it remains a priority today.  He built a bipartisan
coalition in support of this work to foster economic opportunity, good
governance, and citizen security across Central America.  The democratic
renewal in Guatemala is a prime example of that progress. 

What’s new is that we’re not doing this work alone.  For example, we
have united forces with Mexico partnering with their development agency,
AMEXCID, to support at-risk populations in Central America.

And while we know that the factors driving people to migrate are
complex, we see encouraging signs that this work is bearing fruit.  We
saw a 30 percent decrease in the number of Central Americans at the
border from fiscal year ‘21 to fiscal year ‘23, and a double-digit
decrease in Central Americans’ intention to migrate in a similar
period. 

The United States remains committed to supporting our workers within
Latin America and the Caribbean as they integrate millions of migrants,
mostly from Venezuela.

As you know, the region is becoming home to some of the most generous
and pragmatic policies around the world when it comes to stabilizing and
integrating migrant populations, efforts the U.S. government is proud to
support. 

Colombia has provided 10-year legal status to over 2 million migrants,
and, last month, they extended eligibility to migrants with children
enrolled in schools. 

Brazil’s Operation Welcome matches migrants to labor programs across
Brazil with some of the highest rates in (inaudible) employment.

Ecuador, along with other — many other countries in the region, provide
migrants immediate access to public services and has launched a fast and
efficient process that provided legal status — status to 100,000
migrants. 

Peru’s pioneering work on degree validations allowed migrant doctors and
nurses to convert their credentials and deploy across the country to
treat COVID patients during the pandemic. 

And there’s a lot more going on that we hope to hear about during the
ministerial.

The data is overwhelming that these policies improve security and lead
to economic growth.  Colombia’s approach is already paying dividends.  A
recent IOM study found that these Venezuelan migrants contributed almost
600 million to the Colombian economy in 2022 with an employment rate of
90 percent.

But we also know it can be difficult because the costs are today and the
benefits are tomorrow.  What the United States sees is a coalition
(inaudible) forming in the region, countries doing the right thing,
recognizing that the benefits to their societies will outweigh the
short-term costs. 

With regards to the second pillar, President Biden has rebuilt Our
Refugee Resettlement program and led a historic expansion of lawful
pathways to the United States and partner countries.

Like our regional partners, the President recognizes that lawful
migration not only advances our national security and our values as a
nation of laws and immigrants, but also strengthens our economy. 
Refugees and SIVs contributed almost $124 billion to our economy from
2005 to 2019, according to an HHS study. 

Migrants fill labor gaps and ultimately boost wages and employment of
U.S. foreign workers, spurring investment and innovation, according to
recent research at UC Davis. 

Migration also contributes to cooling inflationary pressures. 

For that reason, this administration has pioneered innovative approaches
to expand lawful pathways.  Under the CHNV initiative, we’ve reduced
irregular migration from Cuba, Haiti, Nicaragua, and Venezuela while
enabling 435,000 individuals in lawful pathways to come to live and work
in the United States for a two-year period.

And we see a huge opportunity to expand these efforts across the region
as both advanced and emerging economies have significant labor needs and
could really benefit from a marketplace to match the skills of workers
with labor gaps.  (Inaudible) this work would improve lives and reduce
the need for people to make the dangerous journey north. 

Lastly, we are working with our partners to strengthen enforcement and
manage migration at the border throughout the region in a humane manner.

We continue to take aggressive steps to crack down on smugglers and
traffickers profiting off of vulnerable migrants. 

Just a few moments ago, we announced that we have imposed visa
restrictions on executives of several Colombian transportation companies
moving migrants by sea.  We are working closely with our partners to
share information so we can take real-time actions to deter and stop
irregular migration and better identify and expel nefarious actors.

My colleagues will expand on our joint efforts throughout the region. 
These efforts have contributed to lower numbers of encounters at our
southwest border, an almost 40 percent decrease in the last — in the
first four months of this year, compared to the four months immediately
prior. 

So, as we enter tomorrow’s ministerial, there is a momentum in the
region around efforts to coordinate enforcements, expand lawful
pathways, and address root causes.  And we want to strongly rally behind
them. 

To that end, the United States will be making a
multi-hundred-million-dollar commitment tomorrow to provide humanitarian
and development assistance to foster stabilization of migrant
communities and support partner country efforts to fully integrate
migrants. 

Today, we will have three side events with academia, civil society, and
the private sector, all who want to be part of the solution.

And we’ll also announce new enforcement partnerships, steps to
institutionalize the LA Declaration to a — with a permanent secretariat,
and ways to further our commitment to expand lawful pathways for
protecting labor rights. 

So, I’ll just conclude by reinforcing that we are making progress, and
we look forward to a substantive ministerial and the continued work
ahead to fulfill the promise of the LA Declaration.  We share the belief
that, together, we can respond to the historic challenge of migration in
a humane, orderly, and safe way.

Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Good morning.  I want to thank
President Arévalo, Foreign Minister Martínez, and their administrations
for their leadership in restoring trust in their country’s institutions
and providing Guatemalans a sense of hope and opportunity. 

The United States appreciates the Guatemalan government’s efforts to
champion democracy and its commitment to coordinate closely on our
shared challenges, which include irregular migration and displacement.

I want to begin by sharing the progress made through our Root Causes
Strategy that my colleague just mentioned.  Vice President Harris leads
the implementation of the Root Causes Strategy, which aims to address
the drivers of irregular migration and displacement by improving
conditions in El Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras so citizens in those
countries do not feel compelled to leave their homes and undertake
dangerous journeys north. 

Our work on the Root Causes Strategy provides hope and opportunity to
the people of Central America by addressing economic, government, and
security challenges.

In addition to continuing to meet President Biden’s commitment to
request $4 billion over four years to address the root causes of
irregular migration, Vice President Harris has developed an innovative
public-private partnership known as Central America Forward, which has
brought $5.2 billion in private-sector investment to the region. 

Under the Vice President’s initiative, a U.S. multi-agency delegation
will visit Guatemala in the coming months to support clean energy and
infrastructure development and to facilitate private-sector investment
and also to promote sustainable economic development. 

On the topic of lawful pathways.  When done in a lawful manner,
migration can fuel economic prosperity in host countries by bringing
diverse skills, talents, and entrepreneurial spirit energy into the
workforce, driving innovation, enhancing productivity, and contributing
to sustained growth and competitiveness.

But our message is absolutely clear: Take advantage of lawful pathways
rather than make a dangerous, irregular journey north, where there will
be consequences.  Individuals seeking international protection and other
lawful pathways into the United States have many options, including
refugee resettlement, humanitarian parole, family reunification, labor
pathways, and seeking asylum in host countries, as well as various other
support services provided by international organizations and NGOs. 
Taken together, these initiatives are the largest expansion of lawful
pathways to the United States in decades. 

In addition to our funding to support safe, orderly, and humane
migration and to provide protections to refugees and vulnerable
migrants, our groundbreaking Safe Mobility Initiative, *Movilidad
Segura* in Spanish, is significantly expanding access to lawful pathways
throughout the region through our offices in Guatemala, Colombia, Costa
Rica, and Ecuador.  Safe Mobility offices facilitate expedited refugee
processing via the U.S. Refugee Admissions Program and provides
information and referrals to humanitarian parole, family reunification,
and labor programs at no cost to applicants. 

At the same time, we continue to robustly enforce U.S. immigration
laws.  There are serious consequences, including removal, for those who
do not use lawful pathways and do not have a legal basis to remain.  In
the enforcement space, we’ve sharpened our focus on charter companies,
some of whom, in cooperation with Nicaragua’s Ortega-Murillo regime,
have offered flights from Managua and charged extortion-level prices
that put migrants onto a dangerous overland path north to the U.S.
border.  While these migrants predominantly come from the Caribbean,
others come from Africa, Asia, and elsewhere. 

In response to this disturbing trend, on March 4th, Secretary Blinken
took steps to impose visa restrictions on air charter company executives
for facilitating irregular migration to the United States.  These visa
restrictions were later expanded to also target owners, executives, and
senior officials of companies providing transportation by land and sea,
designed predominantly for individuals intending to migrate irregularly
to the United States.

As my colleagues mentioned, today the United States took critical steps
to impose visa restrictions on executives of several Colombian
transportation companies moving migrants by sea.  These companies
facilitate irregular migration and expose migrants to exploitation and
violence.  Colombia has been an important partner on migration
management, both on enforcement and its expansion of lawful pathways for
Venezuelans.  Today’s action demonstrates the U.S. commitment to hold
accountable those who smuggle migrants by sea in Colombia. 

In closing, let me say again that our message is clear.  We urge
individuals to take advantage of lawful pathways rather than make a
dangerous, irregular journey north.

We’ve seen far too many tragic cases of migrants losing their lives
while making the trip, women facing gender-based violence, and
vulnerable people extorted by gangs and criminals. 

The good news is that countries in the Americas have come together in an
unprecedented manner to collaborate in managing the migration challenges
our countries face.  This collective action is more important now than
ever, which is why we’re so pleased to be here in Guatemala with our
host this week.

Thank you very much.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thank you, \[senior administration
official\], and thank you, \[senior administration official\].  And
thanks, everyone, for joining us today. 

As I think my colleagues noted, we believe that these ministerial — this
ministerial in Guatemala is going to be a critical meeting to continue
to drive forward our key goals in the region.  And that includes, as
we’ve discussed, strengthening enforcement of borders, not just our own
and not just Mexico’s borders, but borders throughout the region, as
well as continuing to expand lawful pathways, which, as \[senior
administration official\] noted, we have done in record form and
continue to do today.

I will also — I want to commend our colleagues at the State Department
for today’s announcement on the sanctions for ferry operators in
Colombia who are ruthlessly smuggling migrants into the Darien jungle
and fueling what is a humanitarian and ecological crisis there.  As
we’ve discussed before, we are seeing historic levels of displacement
and migration across the world, including in our hemisphere, and we have
been working with foreign partners in our hemisphere and, frankly, all
over the world to address these flows. 

We continue to be committed to our approach, which, as we’ve discussed
before, combines this historic expansion of lawful pathways to provide
migrants who need protection or otherwise intend to migrate with safe
and orderly mechanisms and means to do so, with strengthened
consequences at our land border, which include the circumvention of
lawful pathways rules, which is resulting in record use of expedited
removal at our border and record removals and repatriations of
individuals we encounter. 

In fact, from May 12th of last year, when the public health emergency
was lifted and we returned to Title 8 processing at our border — from
May 12th to April 17th of this year, we have removed or returned over
690,000 individuals, the vast majority of whom crossed the southwest
border, and that includes more than 105,000 family-unit individuals, and
that includes removals to more than 170 countries around the world. 

Even as we have focused on enforcing these consequences at our border,
we have also permitted more than 435,000 nationals of Cuba, Haiti,
Nicaragua, and Venezuela to arrive in a safe and orderly mean using our
humanitarian parole processes, which require a U.S.-based supporter, and
we have allowed at the land border through our mobile one — mobile
application, CBP One, more than 547,000 individuals to schedule
appointments to present in a safe and orderly manner, as is called for
by the Immigration and Nationality Act, at our ports of entry. 

We recognize that there are significant challenges throughout the region
and all over the world that are fueling these trends, and that our
frontline personnel, including officers and agents at U.S. Customs and
Border Protection, our asylum officers at U.S. Citizenship and
Immigration Services, and our personnel at Immigration and Customs
Enforcement have been on the frontlines under a great deal of strain,
and they are doing, frankly, heroic work on our border. 

As \[senior administration official\] noted, all of these efforts — what
we’re doing on our border and what we’re doing regionally — are
working.  We are seeing a significant reduction thus far this year in
encounters compared to the previous two years, and we attribute that to
the consequences we are imposing at our border, as well as the
enforcement efforts our partners in Mexico and further south are taking
as well.

I think all of these data points show that this regional collaboration
is working, that this is a shared responsibility for the United States
and the region, and we look forward to the meetings today and tomorrow
in Guatemala to continue to have these conversations with our partners. 

Thank you.

MODERATOR:  Thank you very much to all of our speakers.  Could you
please, Moderator, go over the instructions on how folks can ask their
questions, please?

Q    Hi.  Thanks to all for doing this call.  In these discussions, will
there — are you anticipating at least discussing repatriation that other
countries can be doing?  And is there a discussion over what support the
U.S. would provide, if any, for them to do that?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Hi, Priscilla.  I can start.  And,
\[senior administration official\], please feel free to jump in.  We
always engage our foreign partners on repatriation issues, and that
includes, obviously, kind of streamlining repatriations from the United
States.  And we have also been encouraging our foreign partners to
enforce their borders and undertake repatriations.

We’ve seen a of countries step up over the last two years and begin
repatriations.  Obviously, the government of Mexico has been doing so
for quite some time.  The government of Guatemala engages in some, and
the government of Panama, as well, has been undertaking their own
repatriations.

We will continue to encourage those efforts and support with technical
assistance and capacity-building whenever we can.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Great.  And I would just add that we
continue to look to work with countries in the region to support the
repatriation efforts and working with Congress precisely on this effort.

Q    Hi, folks.  Thanks for doing this.  You mentioned that lawful
pathways are a key component of your strategy to address migration.

Are there any plans to expand the number of people who can come to the
U.S. under these pathways, including by, for example, increasing the
number of CBP One spots or adding additional countries to CHNV?  Thank
you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks, Camilo.  We are always looking
at what we can do to continue to build on the lawful pathways that we
have put in place, but we don’t have anything to announce on that
today.  Thanks.

Q    Hi.  Thank you.  Can you share a bit more detail about these
sanctions against the Colombian companies?

Are you able to share the names of the companies or the executives as
well as the scope of this?  I mean, I know you — the U.S. has been
pressuring both Colombia and Panama to take action on slowing down the
people transiting through the Darién for the last year, but when you
look at the numbers, they haven’t changed very much.  And I’m wondering,
do you think this will be significant and actually lead to some sort of
change?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thank you very much.  So, under the 3C
authority in which these individuals were designated, we’re unable to
share their names, but I think this does show a key commitment to ensure
that those who are facilitating irregular migration and exploiting
migrants and exposing them to violence are held accountable.  And this
is something that we do in close partnership with Colombia, with Panama,
with other countries in the region, and we do think our efforts have had
a real impact and will continue to do as much as possible, which is, in
part, why Secretary Blinken put in place this new authority and is using
it robustly at this time.

Q    Hello, and thanks for doing the call.  I wanted to ask about the
Root Causes Strategy, which emerged in the spring of 2021 when we saw so
many Central Americans coming, but now migration is more global, right? 
We’ve got record numbers of people coming from all over the world —
sorry about the background noise here — and some of the highest numbers
we’re seeing are from Colombia, Ecuador, Peru right now. 

So, are we preparing a Root Causes Strategy for those countries?  And,
if not, I mean, is it still a useful framework for addressing migration
that’s become more global than ever?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Let — let me take that and give a
little background.  So, the Root Causes Strategy was focused and is
focused on Central America, and it is, we think — we believe, bearing
fruit.  We have really robust development programs in Colombia, in
Ecuador — I mean, USAID states.

You know, if you think about the things that we do in the region, it —
you know, Root Causes is the bread and butter of dealing with security,
dealing with governance, and improving economic opportunity.  So, it is
part of our programming and efforts throughout the region.  We are also
–- and it’s part of the announcement tomorrow –- really focusing their
efforts — on supporting their efforts to integrating migrants in
Colombia, in Ecuador, in Brazil, in Peru, which hosts, you know, 82
percent of the migrants dislocated throughout the region.

And that also affects economic opportunity within their countries,
because we’re working with communities that –- when we work on
integration, we help the communities as a whole that include Colombians
and include the migrant population. 

So, all of that is part of our — of our strategy to really help
countries on the root causes that are driving people to leave.

Q    Yes, thank you very much for doing this call.  I wanted to ask
\[senior administration official\] about the multimillion-dollar –- I
believe you described it –- commitment that will be announced tomorrow. 
And if you could elaborate a little bit more on –- or provide a bit more
detail on exactly how much that commitment is going to be, what the
money will go towards, and what the funding faculty is for this.

I mean, is it –- is this already announced USAID or already
authorized-by-Congress USAID money or where this money is coming from
and whether it’s, you know, new money or something that, you know, has
previously been approved by Congress that you’re elaborating or
providing more details on the use on?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So, thank you for the question.  We are
really proud of the commitment that we are going to announce tomorrow. 
There will be more details about the amount and purpose, but this is
money that has not been announced before.

And the focus of it is, again, a lot of humanitarian support for the
most vulnerable migrants, to help these communities be able to absorb
them in response to their needs: food, shelter, conditional cash
transfers, and just get them into the path toward integration and
stabilization. 

And it’s also development funding in the number that we will provide
tomorrow that, again, is working with technical assistance, is providing
integration capacity from the policy to literally what we did with
Colombia when they instituted their policy in 2021, which is providing
them surge staff, helping with integration centers.  It’s continuing
that work as their policies expand and the needs of the region expand.

But we will be issuing a factsheet tomorrow with the details of the
funding as well as the commitments from throughout the region, which
will have additional information on the (inaudible) of the money and the
purpose. 

But, again, all of this are funds that have not been notified or have
not been announced before.

Q    Thank you so much for this.  I wanted to ask this question to
\[senior administration official\].  I have been asking this question
for months without luck.

How many nationals of Venezuela, Nicaragua, Haiti, and Cuba has DHS
deported to Mexico since the end of Title 42 in May 2023?  Is there any
particular reason why the administration is refusing to publish this
number?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Hi.  I am sorry.  I don’t have that
number with me.  I’m sure our Office of Public Affairs can follow up
with you.

Thanks.

Q    Thank you.  As I think you know, Mexico today is going to begin
requiring visas for Peruvians, as they have done previously for
Ecuadorians, Brazilians, and Venezuelans.  I’m wondering if you have any
thoughts on that, if you had any input or spoke with Mexicans about that
prior to it.

And just as a tag-along to that, whether you expect other nationalities
to face these travel restrictions to Mexico, specifically Colombians and
if this issue has come up at all in your talks, including countries like
Ecuador, El Salvador, and Nicaragua that have been very open in allowing
people to come on their way to the United States.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I can start on that.  And (inaudible). 
I (inaudible) greatly appreciate efforts by countries in the region to
put in place visa restrictions, including for extra-hemispheric actors. 
So, very grateful to Mexico in particular and remain committed, as
enduring partners with Mexico, to humanely reduce the unprecedented
irregular migration flows in the region and also to work together on
root causes.

And specifically on the transit visa issue, this is something that is a
priority for us, is a priority for our partners in the region, and
certainly something that has been discussed over recent months and will
continue to be discussed here in Guatemala City. 

I’ll turn to \[senior administration official\], if he has anything else
to add.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I think the only thing I would add is
that, you know, we continually discuss with our foreign partners how
human smuggling networks are leveraging visa regimes in order to bring
migrants from outside the hemisphere into the hemisphere and to move
migrants within our hemisphere.  And we will continue to engage all of
our foreign partners on that issue moving forward.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Sorry, maybe I can just add really
quickly that, you know, we –- I talked briefly about –- spoke briefly
about the charter airlines.  We’re also working closely with commercial
airlines.  And the International Air Transport Association has put out a
statement speaking to its efforts to deepen support to combat irregular
migration in the Americas.  And we think it’s critical to work both with
charter airlines and commercial airlines.

So, we think it’s absolutely terrific that this statement is coming out
as we’re here in Guatemala City, in line with the principles of the Los
Angeles Declaration.

Q    Thank you so much for taking my call.  Going off of the
extra-hemispheric migration, is there any -– are there any plans to
treat separately immigration from countries like China and Iran?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Sure, I can start.  Just to say that
extra-continental irregular migration is a critical issue for us.  In
FY2023, more than 50,000 PRC nationals were encountered nationwide.  And
in FY24, we’ve already encountered nearly 30,000 PRC nationals. 

So, from our perspective, that’s why it’s so critical to work together
on putting in place visa requirements and also why we feel like this 3C
visa revocation policy that was rolled out by Secretary Blinken is so
critical, because we’re ensuring that we hold accountable charter flight
companies and others who are taking advantage of these irregular
migrants from some of these countries and ensuring that there’s
accountability for those executives of air — charter airline companies
and others. 

I don’t know if my colleague \[redacted\] wants to add to that. 

Great.  Thank you.

Q    Hi.  Just following up on repatriation.  You just talked about our
partnerships and removal.  The folks who are being repatriated, the
folks who are being put under expedited removal — are there any
resources available to them when they get back home?

So, a lot of them are coming here for economic reasons, (inaudible) them
to come back.  And if those resources are available, what are they?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thank you very much.  Yes, absolutely. 
For example, USAID has a very strong reintegration program that
essentially allows for safe returns for individuals, supports them when
they’re on the ground, supports services for those individuals as they
reintegrate themselves back to their host communities.

So, it’s something that we’re working on in Central America, but also
elsewhere in the region.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  And to add, increasingly, these folks
that are coming back are being incorporated into other development
programming within the region, so they can enter reskilling programs,
you know, youth programs, jobs, to be able to get jobs and really
reintegrate within their communities.

Q    Hi.  Good morning.  Thank you for taking my question.  I wanted to
ask specifically about migrants coming from the Middle East.  How
significant are their numbers?  And is the plan to deal with them
separate than migrants coming from Central and South America?  Thank
you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thank you very much.  Certainly,
there’s an impact of local conflicts on irregular migration, including
extra-continental irregular migration from Asian and African countries. 
We’ve seen considerable increases since 2022.

According to public data from the Department of Homeland Security, in
fiscal year 2023, nearly 100,000 Indian nationals were encountered
nationwide, 150 percent more than FY2022.  We’re also looking at
irregular migration from certain African countries like Guinea, Angola,
Mauritania, and Senegal, which has increased in the last two years. 

So, this is certainly why we’re stepping up efforts both on visa transit
regime, transit visa regimes, but also on accountability mechanisms for
smugglers, including through the 3C visa restrictions.

Q    Hello.  Can you hear me?  Hello?

OPERATOR:  Yes, we can hear you.

Q    Yeah, thank you very much.  I wanted to ask — part of the question
I wanted to ask you about: You talk about immigration from Angola.  The
follow-up question to that is: During Prime Minister of Italy’s visit to
the White House, she mentioned that she would propose an immigration
alliance through the G7 to deal with the immigration from Africa and
around the world.

And with this announcement that you’re making, I wanted to find out if
this is part of that proposal that she made during a bilateral meeting
with President Biden.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thank you very much for your question. 
So, the efforts through G7 are very much — and more broadly, on
migration management worldwide — are very much in alignment with the
principles of the Los Angeles Declaration. 

So, while these two things aren’t tied directly, we feel like the
principles that Secretary Blinken and others are speaking to today in
terms of shared responsibility, in terms of lawful pathways, in terms of
enforcement, are very much in line with the broader G7 vision on these
issues.

Q    Thank you.

MODERATOR:  Thank you very much, everyone, for joining us.  Again, as a
reminder, the contents of this call are attributable to “senior
administration officials,” and the embargo has now lifted. 

Thank you.  Have a great day.
