---
date: '2024-05-22'
modified_time: 2024-05-22 17:43:50-04:00
published_time: 2024-05-22 18:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/05/22/readout-of-white-house-meetings-on-the-u-s-uk-atlantic-declaration/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of White\_House Meetings on the U.S.-UK Atlantic\_Declaration"
---
 
Yesterday, senior officials from the United States and United Kingdom
governments met at the White House to discuss progress and next steps
since the June 2023 Atlantic Declaration for a Twenty-First Century
U.S.-UK Economic Partnership. The meetings, co-chaired by U.S. National
Security Advisor Jake Sullivan and UK National Security Advisor Sir Tim
Barrow, highlighted the U.S. and UK economic partnership and focused on
progress towards meeting key objectives under the Atlantic Declaration
framework for our transatlantic and strategic cooperation.

The group welcomed the progress made to date on delivery, including
through the launch of a new Strategic Dialogue on Biological Security, 
the U.S-UK Sanctions Dialogue, the signing of a Memorandum of
Understanding on AI Safety and launch of the U.S.-UK Data Bridge, and
our engagement with industry on clean energy supply chains.

Officials discussed efforts to continue to deepen U.S.-UK economic,
technological, commercial and trade relations and shared information on
the latest threats, risks and opportunities related to critical and
emerging technologies. The discussion particularly highlighted where the
U.S. and UK could promote growth in these technologies – including
quantum, biotechnology and AI – to our mutual competitive advantage. The
group reviewed progress under the Atlantic Declaration framework on
promoting U.S. and UK leadership in these technologies and strengthening
our respective toolkits – including inbound and outbound investment
screening and export controls – to protect advanced sensitive
technologies from actors that may use them to undermine each countries’
national security. Officials also discussed how to advance efforts to
build resilient clean energy supply chains key to our energy transition,
including through collaboration on civil nuclear, offshore wind and the
development of other clean energy  technologies, as well as by advancing
negotiations towards a Critical Minerals Agreement. The group also
discussed efforts to ensure that macroeconomic imbalances and non-market
policies and practices creating PRC overcapacity in clean energy
technologies and other strategic sectors do not undermine our efforts.
Finally, officials discussed how to deliver high-standards
infrastructure investment in developing countries and emerging markets
through the G7 Partnership for Global Infrastructure and Investment and
via our efforts to boost the capacity of the Multilateral Development
Banks.

The White House also hosted representatives from the U.S. and UK
governments for the inaugural Strategic Technologies Investor Council,
convening investors from both sides of the Atlantic to discuss
strategies to mobilize private capital, close funding gaps and unlock
new investments towards critical and emerging technologies.

\###
