---
date: '2024-05-30'
published_time: 2024-05-30 19:37:35-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/05/30/readout-of-principal-deputy-national-security-advisor-jon-finers-meeting-with-peoples-republic-of-china-executive-vice-minister-of-foreign-affairs-ma-zhaoxu/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of Principal Deputy National Security Advisor Jon Finer\u2019s Meeting\
  \ with People\u2019s Republic of China Executive Vice Minister of Foreign Affairs\
  \ Ma\_Zhaoxu"
---
 
Principal Deputy National Security Advisor Jon Finer met today with
People’s Republic of China Executive Vice Minister of Foreign Affairs Ma
Zhaoxu in Washington, D.C.  The two sides had a candid and constructive
conversation, building on the Summit between President Biden and
President Xi in Woodside, California in November 2023, and continuing
efforts to maintain open lines of communication and responsibly manage
competition.  The two sides discussed ongoing work to continue
military-to-military communication and advance cooperation on areas in
which our interests are aligned, such as counternarcotics.  They also
discussed areas of difference. Mr. Finer affirmed the importance of
maintaining peace and stability across the Taiwan Strait. He underscored
U.S. support for international law and freedom of navigation in the
South China Sea.  The two sides also discussed Russia’s war against
Ukraine, challenges in the Middle East, and efforts to advance the
denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula. Mr. Finer and Executive Vice
Minister of Foreign Affairs Ma reaffirmed their support for continued
high-level diplomacy and interactions between the United States and the
People’s Republic of China. National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan
stopped by the meeting to greet the Executive Vice Minister and exchange
views on key issues.

\###
