---
date: '2024-05-24'
modified_time: 2024-05-24 15:45:32-04:00
published_time: 2024-05-24 15:36:09-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/05/24/fact-sheet-biden-%e2%81%a0harris-administration-highlights-accomplishments-on-the-second-anniversary-of-historic-executive-order-to-advance-effective-accountable-policing-and-strengthen-public/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Highlights Accomplishments on\
  \ the Second Anniversary of Historic Executive Order to Advance Effective, Accountable\
  \ Policing and Strengthen Public\_Safety"
---
 
In the aftermath of the tragic murder of George Floyd, President Biden
signed a historic [Executive
Order](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/05/25/executive-order-on-advancing-effective-accountable-policing-and-criminal-justice-practices-to-enhance-public-trust-and-public-safety/)
(EO 14074) affirming the Administration’s commitment to ensuring that
each person is treated with dignity by our criminal justice system. The
Executive Order delivered a clear message: public safety requires public
trust.

In the two years since, the federal government and its law enforcement
agencies have acted to enshrine dignity, accountability, and trust in
their work. Through collaboration and engagement with state and local
law enforcement, civil rights groups, labor organizations, families
impacted by police violence, and community leaders, the Biden-Harris
Administration has taken important steps to improve public trust and
advance public safety.

Federal policing is leading by example to become the gold standard of
effectiveness and accountability. Pursuant to the Executive Order,
federal agencies have improved the investigation and documentation of
misconduct; implemented reforms to reduce unnecessary interactions with
the criminal justice system; improved information sharing about deaths
in custody; acted to minimize use of force; built greater accountability
in policing; and supported officer mental health and wellness.

Today, the Biden-Harris Administration is providing an update on actions
taken under the Executive Order two years after its signing, as well as
related ongoing work:

**Ensuring Federal Law Enforcement Accountability.** The Department of
Justice (DOJ) launched the National Law Enforcement Accountability
Database (NLEAD) that contains information about misconduct by federal
law enforcement officers. NLEAD is now available online to authorized
government personnel for use in their hiring and other employment
decisions. Every one of the 93 Executive Branch agencies that employs
law enforcement officers has reported data to the NLEAD or certified
that it had no misconduct records covered by the Executive Order,
including three agencies that are contributing records on a rolling
basis and are expected to complete submission in the coming months. 

On the state level, the International Association of Directors of Law
Enforcement Standards and Training, with DOJ funding, has entered into
agreement with a technology vendor to expand a pre-existing national
registry of state law enforcement de-certification and revocation
actions relating to officer misconduct that is currently used by all 50
states and the District of Columbia. With the expansion, this registry
will include information about the same types of misconduct as the
federal database.

**<u>Minimizing Uses of Force</u>**

**Banned chokeholds and no-knock warrants.** Federal law enforcement
agencies that employ more than 95% of federal law enforcement personnel,
including DOJ, the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), and the
Department of the Interior (DOI) have implemented policies that sharply
limit the use of deadly force; banned the use of chokeholds and carotid
restraints unless deadly force is authorized; and implemented early
warning systems and other risk management tools that enable supervisors
to identify problematic conduct and undertake interventions to help
prevent avoidable uses of force. These agencies also have implemented
no-knock policies that prohibit unannounced entries unless announcing
would create an imminent threat of physical violence, and generally ban
such entries solely to avoid the destruction of evidence. Agencies also
are publicly reporting data on no-knock entries. DOJ’s report is
[here](https://www.justice.gov/olp/executive-order-14074); DHS’s is
[here](https://www.dhs.gov/sites/default/files/2024-05/24_0522_OSLLE_EO-14074-Sec10c-Annual-Report-FY23.pdf);
and DOI’s is
[here](https://www.doi.gov/media/document/oles-lespb-24-01-doi-no-knock-entry-memorandum).

**Publishing Data on Uses of Force.** DOJ is providing training and
technical assistance to federal and to state, Tribal, local, and
territorial law enforcement agencies to increase and improve data
sharing to the FBI’s National Use-of-Force Data Collection program. As
of May 2024, over 11,000 law enforcement agencies – comprising
approximately 71% of federal, state, Tribal, and local law enforcement
officers nationwide – are contributing to the FBI’s National
Use-of-Force Data Collection. In 2019, it was 41%. The database compiles
records regarding use-of-force incidents to showcase trends regarding
outcomes from police interactions, reasons for initial contact, and the
type of force used, among others. To promote transparency and increase
data accessibility, the FBI publicly posts the data on its
[website](https://cde.ucr.cjis.gov/LATEST/webapp/#/pages/le/uof).

**<u>Reducing Unnecessary Interactions with Law Enforcement</u>**

**Prioritizing equitable enforcement of risky driving behaviors.**
Traffic stops are one of the most common encounters between police and
the public; they must be conducted in a way that maintains public trust.
Last year, the Department of Transportation (DOT) allowed the Data
Driven Approaches to Crime and Traffic Safety (DDACTS) cooperative
agreement to expire. For far too long, federal policies and programs
combined with locally-driven traffic enforcement activities contributed
to inequitable enforcement of traffic laws resulting in disparate
burdens on communities of color. DOT is now working on new approaches
for guidance that state and local entities can utilize for effective,
community-based traffic safety enforcement. These new approaches include
the development of a new model that will promote community-driven and
evidence-based traffic law enforcement programs that prioritize safety
and public trust through improved focus on risky driving behaviors such
as speeding, impaired driving, and distraction, as opposed to
emphasizing minor traffic violations. 

Each year, DOT allocates funding to state highway safety offices to
implement data-driven highway safety programs. DOT is reviewing and
updating performance metrics to improve states’ abilities to measure
performance of their overall highway safety programs, with performance
focused on road safety. Although a subset of current metrics are
intended to measure traffic enforcement performance, these metrics may
encourage more traffic stops in ways that are inequitable, which is not
the primary objective of improving traffic safety. DOT also plans to
solicit public input over the coming months as part of this process. In
addition, in January 2025, as part of the annual reporting process,
states will describe their evidence-based enforcement program
activities, including discussion of community collaboration efforts and
their work to support data collection and analysis to ensure
transparency and identify disparities in traffic enforcement. Also, DOT
will continue to require states to include sub-recipient information,
including name and organization type, which fosters transparency about
organizations receiving federal pass-through formula grant funding.

**National gathering to encourage use of grants to improve traffic data
collection.**  The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
(NHTSA)is encouraging states to apply for its Section 1906 Racial
Profiling Data Collection and Section 405 Driver and Officer Safety
grants, which provide funding for states to maintain publicly available
statistical information on the race and ethnicity of drivers in motor
vehicle stops on most public roads. To encourage more states to apply
for these grants, within 90 days, NHTSA will invite all 50 states,
including those that have successfully used Section 1906 funds and
states that have not yet applied for these funds, to share information
about these grants and discuss how states can best meet the grant
requirements. 

**Improving Responses to Behavioral Health Crises.** As many as 10
percent of all police calls involve a person with a mental illness.
Providing officers better tools for responding to behavioral health
crises – like co-responder teams trained in helping individuals in
crisis or with a developmental disability – not only can improve safety
outcomes for police and citizens but also reduce burdens on police so
they can focus on violent crimes. Importantly, it also helps connect
individuals to trained behavioral health professionals more quickly,
ensuring they get the care they need and deserve. In August 2022,
President Biden signed a bill that requires DOJ to develop first
responder crisis intervention training tools to recognize and assist
persons suffering from traumatic brain injury or post-traumatic stress
disorder. Through the American Rescue Plan, the Biden-Harris
Administration also has invested $1.2 billion in Medicaid funding for
crisis responders — mental health and social workers — who work
alongside police officers to respond to non-violent crimes. DOJ and HHS
also issued a
[report](https://www.justice.gov/d9/2023-05/Sec.%2014%28a%29%20-%20DOJ%20and%20HHS%20Guidance%20on%20Emergency%20Responses%20to%20Individuals%20with%20Behavioral%20Health%20or%20Other%20Disabilities_FINAL.pdf)
that provides guidance on responding to people experiencing behavioral
health crises, such as encouraging the use of the 988 Suicide and Crisis
Lifeline and diverting certain emergency calls to trained behavioral
health responders. 

**<u>Promoting Accountability in State and Local Law Enforcement</u>**

**Awarding Federal Grants in a Manner that Supports Accountable Local
Policing.** DHS will issue a bulletin this month to all grant
recipients, which includes state, Tribal, local, and territorial law
enforcement agencies, promoting their adoption of the Executive Order’s
requirements, including to update their policies on the use of force,
no-knock entries, and use of body-worn cameras. DHS also will host
training sessions for grant recipients to educate them on the Executive
Order’s requirements. In the last two fiscal years, DOJ will have made
available nearly $1 billion in discretionary grants funding in a manner
that supports and promotes the adoption of the Executive Order’s
policies by state, Tribal, local, and territorial law enforcement
agencies.

**Restricting Military Equipment for Law Enforcement.** DHS, DOJ, the
Department of Defense (DOD), the General Services Administration, and
the Department of Treasury have acted to prevent certain militarized
equipment from being sold or transferred to state, Tribal, local, and
territorial, and campus law enforcement agencies. For example, DOJ
prohibited the transfer or use of grant funds by state, Tribal, local,
and territorial law enforcement agencies to purchase certain
military-style weapons and equipment.

**<u>Using Data to Understand Police Performance</u>**

**Expanding Data on Deaths in Custody**.The Biden-Harris Administration
is committed to improving the collection and reporting of data on deaths
of persons in jails and prisons as well as those detained, under arrest,
in the process of being arrested, and en route to being incarcerated.
Such data are essential to identifying and resolving problems that lead
to unnecessary or premature deaths, and implementing practices and
policies that can reduce deaths in custody. As part of the next revision
of the U.S. Standard Certificate of Death, the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention (CDC) will engage with states and vital record
jurisdictions to evaluate the addition of a checkbox to the Standard
Certificate to indicate that a death occurred in custody. The standard
certificate serves as a model for individual state certificates to
promote consistent data collection for every death in every vital record
jurisdiction. CDC and its partners will discuss how the collection of
this data can occur and to explore pilot projects. The availability of
national data on deaths in custody would be of great importance to those
who work in the criminal justice system, government officials,
researchers, public health, and loved ones impacted by these deaths.

DOJ also is requiring states applying for funding under the Edward Byrne
Memorial Justice Assistance Grant program to submit annual
implementation
[plans](https://bja.ojp.gov/program/dcra/state-implementation-plans)
that explain how the state intends to gather and submit data on deaths
in custody.

**Better Understanding Perceptions of Police Performance.** The Bureau
of Justice Statistics implemented new questions on police performance
and community safety beginning with the 2024 National Crime
Victimization Survey. The questions are designed to provide an overview
on perceptions of police and cover several concepts of procedural
justice, including trust in police. The results of this household
survey, which will be released in 2025, play a critical role in
understanding crime and victimization regardless of whether the
victimization is reported to law enforcement.

**Supporting Collection of Comprehensive Criminal Justice Statistics.**
FBI’s National Incident-Based Reporting System (NIBRS) captures a broad
array of information about crime, including hate crimes, that is
voluntarily submitted by state, Tribal, local, and territorial police
agencies. To help agencies transition to the new system, DOJ and FBI
provided 129 large agencies with technical assistance, subject matter
expertise, and training. Since then, 64 of these agencies have adopted
NIBRS. DOJ also funded $6.8 million in cooperative agreements as part of
the Jabara-Heyer NO HATE Act to help agencies transition to NIBRS.
Additionally, FBI enhanced its Crime Data Explorer website by adding
topic papers that utilize data to offer insights in a timely and easily
understandable format for the public.

Under recently clarified guidance by the Office of Management and
Budget, police agencies receiving federal grants may be allowed to
classify data infrastructure as a cost that can be paid by grant
funding. This funding flexibility increases law enforcement capacity to
capture, use, and publish data about their actions.

**<u>Supporting Officer Wellness and Success</u>**

**Improving Officer Wellness.** Effective and accountable policing
depends on a police force that is healthy — mentally and physically.
Yet, officers are 54% more likely to die of suicide than the general
population. The Administration has taken several steps to improve
officer wellness. President Biden signed bills that encourage mental
health and peer counseling programs for law enforcement and ensure that
officers disabled in the line of duty are able to get access to their
benefits quickly. In 2022, FBI launched the [Law Enforcement Suicide
Data
Collection](https://www.fbi.gov/how-we-can-help-you/more-fbi-services-and-information/ucr/law-enforcement-suicide-data-collection)
to which agencies can voluntarily submit anonymized information about
officer suicides to facilitate a better understanding of such suicides
and the development of programs to prevent suicides.

DOJ also issued a
[report](https://www.justice.gov/d9/2023-05/Sec.%204%28a%29%20-Report%20on%20Best%20Practices%20to%20Advance%20Officer%20Wellness_FINAL.pdf)
on best practices to address law enforcement officer wellness that
encouraged the police, among other things, to eliminate stigma around
seeking help for mental health, and
a [report](https://www.justice.gov/d9/2023-09/ecats_2023-201340_sec._4c_report.pdf) outlining
best practices for preventing officer suicides that identified resources
available to state, Tribal, local, and territorial agencies. Agencies
are implementing these best practices. For example, DHS will launch a
multi-year, integrated awareness and education campaign involving its
leadership on suicide, stigma reduction, and encouragement of
help-seeking behaviors.

\###
