---
date: '2024-05-17'
modified_time: 2024-05-17 10:23:59-04:00
published_time: 2024-05-17 10:30:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/05/17/fact-sheet-president-biden-announces-new-actions-to-advance-racial-and-educational-equity-on-70th-anniversary-of-brown-v-board-of-education/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: President\_Biden Announces New Actions to Advance Racial and Educational\
  \ Equity on 70th Anniversary of Brown v. Board of\_Education"
---
 
President Biden believes every student deserves access to a high-quality
education that prepares them to be the next generation of leaders.
Today, on the 70<sup>th</sup> anniversary of the landmark *Brown v.
Board of Education* *(Brown)* decision, which outlawed racially
segregated schools – deeming them unequal and unconstitutional – the
Biden-Harris Administration highlights new actions with the release of
additional funding and resources to support school diversity and advance
the goal that all students have access to a world-class education.

[Research](https://cepa.stanford.edu/content/separate-still-unequal-new-evidence-school-segregation-and-racial-academic-achievement-gaps)
shows that racial achievement gaps are strongly associated with school
segregation, in turn because schools with high concentrations of Black
and Latino students receive fewer resources. The desegregation of
schools that followed *Brown* led to a 30 percent increase in graduation
rates for Black students and a 22 percent increase for Latino students.
As school districts were released from court-ordered desegregation,
research shows that in the 1960s and 1970s, school integration increased
rapidly, but that trend has reversed in the past two decades when both
racial and economic segregation
[increased](https://ed.stanford.edu/news/70-years-after-brown-v-board-education-new-research-shows-rise-school-segregation).
For example, segregation between white and Black students is up 64
percent since 1988, while segregation by economic status has grown by 50
percent since 1991. According to the [U.S. Department of Education’s
State of School Diversity
Report](https://www2.ed.gov/rschstat/eval/resources/diversity.pdf),
racially and socioeconomically isolated schools often lack critical
resources and learning experiences and opportunities that prepare
students for college and career success. The Department of Education
report found that three in five Black and Latino students and two in
five American Indian/Alaska Native students attend schools where at
least 75% of students are students of color and 42% of white students
attend schools where students of color make up less than 25% of the
population. 

The Biden-Harris Administration is committed to ensuring the educational
success of every child, and to address racial segregation in our schools
that leads to worse educational outcomes for children, including through
investments in local efforts to increase diversity and equal
opportunity. The Administration is focused on academic acceleration and
has made record levels of investment in K-12 schools and institutions of
higher education to help improve opportunity for all. This includes
supporting districts as they work to strengthen and diversify the
education profession, enrich educational experiences, and improve school
climate and conditions for robust learning.

***New Actions to Advance Racial and Educational Equity***

To advance racial and educational equity and continue the work of
*Brown* to support educational opportunity for all students, the
Biden-Harris Administration announced the following new actions today:

-   **New Magnet School Grants.** The Department of Education’s Magnet
    Schools Assistance Program (MSAP) will invest $20 million in new
    awards for school districts in Arkansas, Colorado, Florida,
    Kentucky, Louisiana, North Carolina, and Texas to establish magnet
    programs designed to further desegregate public schools by
    attracting students from different social, economic, ethnic, and
    racial backgrounds. The President’s 2025 budget request includes
    $139 million for MSAP and $10 million to continue investments in the
    Fostering Diverse Schools program.

<!-- -->

-   **Establishing a new technical assistance center to help states and
    school districts provide more equitable and adequate approaches to
    school funding.** The U.S. Department of Education announced a new
    Technical Assistance Center on Fiscal Equity as part of the
    Comprehensive Centers Program. The Center on Fiscal Equity will
    provide capacity-building services to support states and school
    districts build equitable and adequate resource allocation
    strategies, improve the quality and transparency of fiscal data, and
    prioritize supports for students and communities with the greatest
    need.

<!-- -->

-   **New Data on Equal Access to Math and Science Courses.** The
    Department of Education Office for Civil Rights is releasing a new
    [Civil Rights Data Collection
    report](https://www2.ed.gov/about/offices/list/ocr/docs/crdc-student-access-enrollment.pdf)
    highlighting students’ access to and enrollment in mathematics,
    science, and computer science courses and academic programs, drawing
    from information in the 2020-21 Civil Rights Data Collection (CRDC).
    The report reflects stark continuing racial inequities in access to
    math, science, and computer science courses for students in high
    schools with high concentrations of Black and Latino students. 

<!-- -->

-   **Preserving African American History.** To further advance the
    President’s Executive Order on Promoting the Arts, the Humanities,
    and Museum and Library Services, the Administration is launching an
    interagency process to develop new actions by the Federal Government
    to preserve African American history – including preserving historic
    sites, protecting and increasing access to literature, and ensuring
    the public, including students, has continuing access to resources.
    This effort will bolster African American history and culture as
    integral, indelible parts of American history.

***Investing in Underserved Schools***

-   Under the American Rescue Plan, the nation’s schools received $130
    billion in funding – the most in our Nation’s history – **<u>with a
    focus on undeserved schools</u>**. The American Rescue Plan also
    included new requirements that have driven nearly $800 million in
    State additional education funding, above and beyond the federal
    investment, to the most underserved school by protecting schools
    with high rates of poverty from reductions in State and local
    education funding.

<!-- -->

-   To date, the Biden-Harris Administration has secured nearly $2
    billion in additional Title I funding to support our schools with
    the highest need, for a record $18.4 billion in annual funding.****

<!-- -->

-   The Biden-Harris Administration has also increased funding for
    Full-Service Community Schools five-fold, from $30 million in Fiscal
    Year (FY) 2021 to $150 million in FY 2024 so that underserved
    schools, including those that serve a majority of students of color,
    have the additional resources they need to help deliver more
    services to students and their families, such as health care,
    housing, and child care, to close resource and opportunity gaps.

***Increasing Teacher Diversity***

Research indicates that educator diversity can improve student
achievement and help close achievement gaps. For example, [one
study](https://pubs.aeaweb.org/doi/pdfplus/10.1257/pol.20190573) found
that Black students randomly assigned to at least one Black teacher in
grades K-3 were nearly 19% more likely to enroll in college than their
same-school, same-race peers.

-   The Administration is prioritizing efforts to increase educator
    diversity across 15 competitive grant programs that support teacher
    preparation, development, recruitment, and retention. These programs
    awarded nearly $450 million to 263 grantees, 92 percent of which
    were to grantees that addressed specific priorities related to
    educator diversity.

<!-- -->

-   The Administration secured and awarded a total of more than $23
    million in first-time ever funding for the Augustus F. Hawkins
    Centers of Excellence Grant program which provides grants to
    Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs), Tribally
    Controlled Colleges and Universities (TCCUs), and Minority Serving
    Institutions (MSIs) for teacher preparation programs to increase the
    number of well-prepared teachers, including teachers of color and
    multilingual educators.

***Strengthening School Diversity***

-   During this Administration, the Department of Education is investing
    more than $300 million in programs that increase school diversity
    This includes increased investment in the Magnet Schools Assistance
    Program (MSAP), which aims to reduce racial isolation, including by
    creating highly effective schools, and the creation of the Fostering
    Diverse Schools Demonstration Program (FDS), a new initiative to
    increase school socioeconomic diversity, which awarded more than $14
    million in new grants.

<!-- -->

-   In August 2023 after the Supreme Court effectively ended affirmative
    action in college admissions, the Department of Education released a
    [Dear Colleague Letter on Race and School
    Programming](https://www2.ed.gov/about/offices/list/ocr/letters/colleague-20230824.pdf)
    to guide schools on lawful programs to promote racially inclusive
    school communities and, along with the Department of Justice, a
    [Dear Colleague
    Letter](https://www2.ed.gov/about/offices/list/ocr/letters/colleague-20230814.pdf)
    and a [Questions and Answers
    Resource](https://www2.ed.gov/about/offices/list/ocr/docs/ocr-questionsandanswers-tvi-20230814.pdf)
    to help colleges and universities understand the Supreme Court’s
    decision as they continue to pursue campuses that are racially
    diverse and that include students with a range of viewpoints,
    talents, backgrounds, and experiences. The Department of Education
    [published a
    resource](https://www2.ed.gov/about/offices/list/ocr/docs/brown-board-ed-factsheet.pdf)
    summarizing specific guidance describing Federal legal obligations
    to ensure that all students have equal access to education
    regardless of race, color, or national origin.

<!-- -->

-   The Department of Education issued a new rule requiring, among other
    things, many Charter School Program applicants to assure that
    proposed charter schools would not negatively affect any
    desegregation efforts in the communities in which charters are to be
    located.

***Closing the School Readiness Gap***

Because of the legacy of discrimination, Black children start school on
average nearly seven months behind their white peers in reading. One
study
[finds](https://nieer.org/sites/default/files/2023-08/nieer-achievementgaps-report.pdf)
that one year of universal high-quality pre-K could eliminate most of
that gap. Others indicate that students who go to preschool are nearly
50% more likely to finish high school and go on to a college degree.
Each of the President’s budgets have included proposals that would
provide preschool to every four-year-old in the country. In addition:

-   President Biden has secured an additional $1.5 billion for Head
    Start and nearly a 50% increase in funding for the Child Care &
    Development Block Grant (CCDBG) program, which helps low-income
    families afford child care. Approximately 30% of children and
    families receiving high-quality Head Start services are Black and
    close to 40% of families benefiting from CCBDG are Black. 

<!-- -->

-   The American Rescue Plan provided $24 billion to stabilize child
    care. Over 44% of programs that received assistance were owned or
    operated by people of color and 53% of providers receiving
    stabilization funds were operating in the most racially diverse
    counties.

<!-- -->

-   The Department of Education released
    [guidance](https://oese.ed.gov/files/2024/02/Title-I-Preschool-Early-Learning-Guidance-Revised-2023-FINAL.pdf)
    on how districts can leverage the increases the President has
    secured for Title I to expand access to high-quality preschool
    services, including through partnerships with Head Start programs.
    This is the first Department of Education preschool guidance in more
    than a decade.

\###
