---
date: '2024-05-19'
published_time: 2024-05-19 16:41:56-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/05/19/readout-of-national-security-advisor-jake-sullivans-meetings-in-saudi-arabia-and-israel/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan\u2019s Meetings in Saudi\
  \ Arabia and\_Israel"
---
 
Today in Jerusalem, National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan met with
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, President Isaac Herzog,
National Security Advisor Tzachi Hanegbi, Minister for Strategic Affairs
Ron Dermer, and convened a modified U.S.-Israel Strategic Consultative
Group (SCG) meeting to discuss the war in Gaza, including ongoing
diplomacy to secure the release of all the hostages and our shared
objective for the enduring defeat of Hamas. 

Mr. Sullivan arrived in Israel from Dammam, Saudi Arabia, where he held
constructive meetings with the Crown Prince and Prime Minster of Saudi
Arabia Mohamed bin Salman focused on a comprehensive vision for an
integrated Middle East region. Mr. Sullivan briefed Prime Minister
Netanyahu and his team on these meetings and the potential that may now
be available for Israel, as well as the Palestinian people.

In Israel, during the modified SCG, Mr. Sullivan was briefed on Israeli
military operations in Gaza, and the two sides discussed methods to
ensure the defeat of Hamas while minimizing harm to civilians. Mr.
Sullivan reiterated the President’s longstanding position on Rafah.

Mr. Sullivan proposed a series of concrete measures to ensure more aid
surges into Gaza, including through all available crossings, and through
the multinational humanitarian maritime corridor.  Mr. Sullivan and his
counterparts also discussed steps to build a more effective
deconfliction mechanism to ensure humanitarian workers can safely
deliver aid to those in need and establish fixed corridors inside Gaza
to ensure aid is able to reach all those in need throughout Gaza. 

Mr. Sullivan briefed on U.S. support for Israeli efforts to find and
bring to justice Hamas’s leaders in Gaza, as well as discussions with
Egypt to fully secure its border with Rafah and to secure the continued
flow of humanitarian assistance through Kerem Shalom, even as talks
proceed on reopening the Rafah crossing.  Mr. Sullivan reaffirmed the
need for Israel to connect its military operations to a political
strategy that can ensure the lasting defeat of Hamas, the release of all
the hostages, and a better future for Gaza.

\###
