---
date: '2024-05-06'
published_time: 2024-05-06 22:16:55-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/05/06/readout-of-president-bidens-meeting-with-his-majesty-king-abdullah-ii-of-jordan-3/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of President\_Biden\u2019s Meeting with His Majesty King Abdullah\
  \ II of\_Jordan"
---
 
President Biden met today with His Majesty King Abdullah II of the
Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan at the White House.  Both leaders
acknowledged 75 years of partnership and friendship between our two
countries.  President Biden congratulated His Majesty on the 25th
anniversary of his accession to the throne.

The President and King Abdullah II discussed the latest developments in
Gaza and affirmed their commitment to work together towards an enduring
end to the crisis.  They further underscored the need for an immediate
release of the hostages held by Hamas and a sustainable ceasefire that
allows for a surge of the urgently needed humanitarian assistance to be
delivered safely through Gaza. Both remain committed to achieving a
durable, lasting peace to include a pathway to a Palestinian state, with
security guarantees for Israel. Both President Biden and King Abdullah
II reiterated their shared commitment to facilitating the increased,
sustained delivery of life-saving humanitarian assistance to Palestinian
civilians in Gaza. President Biden thanked His Majesty for Jordan’s
critical leadership and partnership in this effort.

The President and King Abdullah II also discussed the critical
importance of stability in the West Bank and support for the reforms now
being pursued by the Palestinian Authority. Both leaders reaffirmed
their commitment to working together to realize a more stable and
integrated Middle East region, and President Biden confirmed unwavering
U.S. support for Jordan and the Jordanian people.

\###
