---
date: '2024-05-24'
published_time: 2024-05-24 13:14:03-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/05/24/readout-of-president-bidens-call-with-president-abdel-fattah-al-sisi-of-egypt-6/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of President\_Biden\u2019s Call with President Abdel Fattah Al-Sisi\
  \ of\_Egypt"
---
 
President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. spoke today with President Abdel Fattah
Al-Sisi of Egypt to discuss ongoing efforts to secure the release of
hostages and to address the humanitarian crisis in Gaza. President Biden
welcomed the commitment from President Al-Sisi to permit the flow of
UN-provided humanitarian assistance from Egypt through the Karem Shalom
crossing on a provisional basis for onward distribution throughout Gaza.
This will help save lives. President Biden also expressed his full
commitment to support efforts to reopen the Rafah crossing with
arrangements acceptable to both Egypt and Israel and agreed to send a
senior team to Cairo next week for further discussions. The President
Biden thanked President Al-Sisi once again for his efforts from the
beginning of the crisis to ensure the continuous flow of assistance from
Egypt into Gaza. The two leaders also consulted on new initiatives to
secure the release of hostages together with an immediate and sustained
ceasefire in Gaza. President Biden and President Al-Sisi affirmed their
commitment to work together to set the conditions for a durable and
sustainable peace in the Middle East region. They agreed to remain in
regular contact both directly and through their senior national security
teams.

\###
