---
date: '2024-05-28'
modified_time: 2024-05-27 15:53:39-04:00
published_time: 2024-05-28 09:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/05/28/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-launches-federal-state-initiative-to-bolster-americas-power-grid/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Launches Federal-State Initiative\
  \ to Bolster America\u2019s Power\_Grid"
---
 
Since Day One, President Biden has positioned America as a leader in the
global race for a clean energy future, including by taking ambitious
action to deliver a clean, reliable electric grid, which will help
ensure that communities don’t lose power during extreme weather events,
lower energy costs for hardworking families, and create good-paying jobs
– all while tackling the climate crisis. Under the President’s
leadership, the U.S. is projected to build more new electric generation
capacity this year than we have in two decades – 96 percent of that
clean energy. In addition, ten major transmission projects have begun
construction, expected to connect nearly 20 gigawatts of new power to
the grid. America is investing tens of billions to strengthen our grid
to bolster resiliency, strengthen energy security, and drive innovation.
And in recent weeks, the Biden-Harris Administration has taken critical
steps to build out the nation’s power grid – from making the federal
permitting process for new transmission lines more efficient to
launching a public-private mobilization to upgrade 100,000 miles of
existing lines.

**Today, the Biden-Harris Administration is building on this momentum by
launching a** [**Federal-State Modern Grid Deployment
Initiative**](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/05/Federal-State-Modern-Grid-Deployment-Initiative-Principles_formatted.pdf)**,
with commitments from 21 leading states:** Arizona, California,
Colorado, Connecticut, Delaware, Hawai‘i, Illinois, Kentucky, Maine,
Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York,
North Carolina, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Washington, and
Wisconsin. Building on the Biden-Harris Administration’s legislative
accomplishments and executive actions in tackling the grid modernization
challenge, the initiative aims to bring together states, federal
entities, and power sector stakeholders to help drive grid adaptation
quickly and cost-effectively to meet the challenges and opportunities
that the power sector faces in the twenty-first century.

Participating states have committed to prioritize efforts that support
the adoption of modern grid solutions to expand grid capacity and build
modern grid capabilities on both new and existing transmission and
distribution lines. Historically, expanding the capacity of the U.S.
power grid has typically relied on building new transmission lines with
technologies that have not changed since the mid-twentieth century.
Today, a new generation of modern grid technologies provides a
significant opportunity to achieve power system capacity expansion,
including through high-performance conductors that have the benefit of
being able to carry double or more of the amount of power of
conventional transmission wires, as well as Grid Enhancing Technologies
that maximize electricity transmission across the existing system
through a family of technologies that includes sensors, power flow
control devices, and analytical tools. These solutions increase the
capacity and throughput based on real-time conditions. Deploying these
tools means that renewables and other clean sources of power can be
integrated sooner and more cost-effectively than waiting for new
transmission construction, which will address load growth challenges
more rapidly, create good-paying jobs, and lower Americans’ utility
bills.

Alongside this announcement, the U.S. Climate Alliance announced the
availability of policy, technical, and analytical assistance to help
participating members advance state-level efforts to carry out these
commitments. In conjunction the Department of Energy is elevating the
host of technical assistance programs that can support varying levels of
analysis for utilities, policy makers, regulators, state energy offices,
and other stakeholders.

In particular, the 21 states signing on as inaugural members will focus
on:

-   Meeting the shared challenges and opportunities of increased load
    growth, a rapidly changing energy landscape, aging infrastructure,
    and new grid-enhancing technologies – while delivering reliable,
    clean, and affordable energy to consumers.

<!-- -->

-   Deploying innovative grid technologies to bolster the capacity of
    our electric grid and more effectively meet current and future
    demand, maximize benefits of new and existing transmission
    infrastructure, increase grid resilience to the growing impacts of
    climate change, and better protect consumers from variability in
    energy prices.

Last month, the Biden-Harris Administration
[announced](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/04/25/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-key-actions-to-strengthen-americas-electric-grid-boost-clean-energy-deployment-and-manufacturing-jobs-and-cut-dangerous-pollution-from-the/)
a public-private mobilization to upgrade 100,000 miles of existing lines
with these types of high-impact solutions over the next five years as
part of a suite of announcements in the power sector. The Administration
is advancing this goal by:

**Catalyzing Nationwide Collaboration on Modern Grid Technologies:**
Governors, regulators, utilities, labor unions, and industry all play
vital roles in determining how energy infrastructure gets built. For
that reason, the Biden-Harris Administration is convening these
stakeholders at the White House today to explore innovative policy
solutions to unlock the deployment of modern grid technologies and share
best practices. The Federal government stands ready to provide technical
and financial assistance and can help provide additional forums to
ensure that the best ideas from states, industry, and community
stakeholders can be more readily shared.

**Accelerating Permitting through New Categorical Exclusions for
Reconductoring:**

Previously, projects to upgrade a transmission line above 20 miles in
length could trigger a detailed environmental review under the National
Environmental Policy Act (NEPA).  The Department of Energy last month
[expanded a categorical
exclusion](https://www.energy.gov/articles/doe-reduces-regulatory-hurdles-energy-storage-transmission-and-solar-projects)
for upgrading and rebuilding transmission lines, replacing the previous
length limits. DOE also made changes to categorical exclusions for
certain energy storage and solar projects on previously developed lands.
With these changes, most reconductoring projects now qualify for the
simplest form of environmental review, which can take years off of
project development time and allow the benefits of the transmission
expansion to be realized even sooner.

**Funding the Deployment of Advanced Grid Technologies:** President
Biden’s Inflation Reduction Act (IRA) and Bipartisan Infrastructure Law
(BIL) have provided the largest investment in history to strengthen the
nation’s power grid, including programs that can support transmission
line upgrades. For example, DOE’s Grid Deployment Office is
administering $10.5 billion in competitive grant funding through the
[Grid Resilience and Innovation Partnerships (GRIP)
Program](https://www.energy.gov/gdo/grid-resilience-and-innovation-partnerships-grip-program).
The first round of GRIP awards included 10 projects that will help
deploy Grid Enhancing Technologies and calls for applications for the
second round placed even greater emphases on these solutions. The DOE
Loan Programs Office has [$250 billion of loan guarantee
authority](https://www.energy.gov/lpo/energy-infrastructure-reinvestment)
to provide low-interest financing to projects that upgrade existing
energy infrastructure, with program guidance that highlights
reconductoring as a qualifying project example. The Department of
Agriculture’s [Empowering Rural America (New ERA)
program](https://www.rd.usda.gov/programs-services/electric-programs/empowering-rural-america-new-era-program)
provides $9.7 billion in low interest loans or grants and represents the
largest investment in rural electrification since 1936, with eligibility
for transmission system upgrades.

Each of these programs advances President Biden’s [Justice40
Initiative](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/environmentaljustice/justice40/)
which sets a goal that 40% of the overall benefits of certain Federal
climate, clean energy, affordable and sustainable housing, and other
investments flow to disadvantaged communities that are marginalized by
underinvestment and overburdened by pollution.

**Reinforcing Administration Accomplishments on New Transmission
Lines:** The Biden-Harris Administration’s new goal to expand capacity
of existing transmission lines will work alongside a historic set of
actions to accelerate buildout of new projects. Since 2021, [ten major
transmission
projects](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/10/30/fact-sheetbiden-harris-administration-announces-historic-investment-to-bolster-nations-electric-grid-infrastructure-cut-energy-costs-for-families-and-create-good-paying-jobs/)
have begun construction, expected to connect nearly 20 gigawatts (GW) of
new generation to the grid and reflecting over $22 billion in
investment, including several projects on public lands that received
approvals from the Department of the Interior. The Department of Energy
issued a final rule to launch the [Coordinated Interagency Transmission
Authorization and Permits
Program](https://www.energy.gov/gdo/coordinated-interagency-transmission-authorizations-and-permits-program)
(CITAP), which streamlines the federal permitting process for qualifying
electric transmission projects and helps set a standard two-year
schedule for authorizations and permits, cutting the average timeframe
in half. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) issued a final
rule on Regional Transmission Planning and Cost Allocation, [Order
1920](https://www.ferc.gov/news-events/news/fact-sheet-building-future-through-electric-regional-transmission-planning-and),
that adopts specific requirements addressing how transmission providers
must conduct long-term planning for regional transmission facilities,
consider the use of advanced conductors and Grid Enhancing Technologies,
and determine how to pay for them, so needed transmission is built.

\###
