---
date: '2024-05-20'
published_time: 2024-05-20 22:04:57-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/05/20/first-lady-jill-biden-to-host-kenya-state-dinner-media-preview-and-spousal-program-events-with-first-lady-rachel-ruto/
tags: statements-releases
title: "First Lady Jill\_Biden to Host Kenya State Dinner Media Preview and Spousal\
  \ Program Events with First Lady Rachel\_Ruto"
---
 
As part of the State Visit with the Republic of Kenya, First Lady Jill
Biden will host a State Dinner Media Preview and a series of events in
celebration of the continuing friendship between the two countries. Dr.
Biden traveled to Kenya in February 2023 as First Lady and in 2010 and
2011 as Second Lady.

**Airport Arrival**

**On Wednesday, May 22<sup>nd</sup> at 10:00 AM,** First Lady Jill Biden
will greet President William Ruto and First Lady Rachel Ruto of the
Republic of Kenya at Joint Base Andrews. This airport arrival is open
press. For interested media, please **[REGISTER
HERE](https://46eop.my.site.com/Surveys/survey/runtimeApp.app?invitationId=0Ki3d0000009Y6n&surveyName=media_rsvp_kenya_state_visit&UUID=61e6868e-1fad-4ebf-9634-0385ce67932b)
by Tuesday, May 21<sup>st</sup> at 12:00 PM ET.**

**Media Preview**

**On Wednesday, May 22<sup>nd</sup> at 2:30 PM,** Dr. Biden will host a
Media Preview in advance of Thursday evening’s State Dinner. The Media
Preview will include brief remarks from Dr. Biden and White House Social
Secretary Carlos Elizondo, followed by presentations of the menu from
White House Executive Chef Cris Comerford and White House Executive
Pastry Chef Susie Morrison. Sample place settings for the State Dinner
will be on display. This Media Preview will be pooled for TV and open to
pre-credentialed media. For interested media, please **[REGISTER
HERE](https://urldefense.com/v3/__https:/46eop.my.site.com/Surveys/survey/runtimeApp.app?invitationId=0Ki3d0000009Y6n&surveyName=media_rsvp_kenya_state_visit&UUID=61e6868e-1fad-4ebf-9634-0385ce67932b__;!!PIZeeW5wscynRQ!scbF9pjvf6DzFXAIPC39aGpKXA7z5ry9Z0QezOSVWxwBNMP_ISwOFRBt-VclTW6oS9RnvkyLBuC2HUcivCLkid-rZuZT3EpB9Q$)
by Tuesday, May 21<sup>st</sup> at 12:00 PM ET.  **

**Spousal Program Events**

On **Thursday, May 23<sup>rd</sup>,** Dr. Biden will host Mrs. Ruto for
two Spousal Program events in Washington, D.C.  
  
**At 11:15 AM,** Dr. Biden and Mrs. Ruto will visit the Advanced
Technical Center, where they will hear from high school students and
instructors about their nursing and cybersecurity career pathways
program. The event will highlight investments in career-connected
learning programs by the Biden-Harris administration, which are
transforming the high school experience and unlocking new pathways to
career opportunities for students.  This visit will underscore Dr. Biden
and Mrs. Ruto’s shared commitment to advancing educational opportunities
to help students and youth thrive. This event will be open to
pre-credentialed media. For interested media, please **[REGISTER
HERE](https://46eop.my.site.com/Surveys/survey/runtimeApp.app?invitationId=0Ki3d0000009cSK&surveyName=rsvp_first_lady_jill_biden_to_host_spousal_program_events&UUID=4979517d-79f6-4a23-8b67-f2e2d9fccefe)
by Tuesday, May 21<sup>st</sup> at 5:00 PM ET.  **  
  
**At 12:00 PM,** Dr. Biden and Mrs. Ruto will visit the Johns Hopkins
University Bloomberg Center, where they will join a Biden Cancer
Moonshot listening session about cancer screenings and the patient
navigation efforts of the Sidney Kimmel Comprehensive Cancer Center at
Johns Hopkins. The event will highlight Dr. Biden and Mrs. Ruto’s shared
interests in advocating for cancer prevention and supporting cancer
patients and their families. This event will be open to pre-credentialed
media. For interested media, please **[REGISTER
HERE](https://46eop.my.site.com/Surveys/survey/runtimeApp.app?invitationId=0Ki3d0000009cSK&surveyName=rsvp_first_lady_jill_biden_to_host_spousal_program_events&UUID=4979517d-79f6-4a23-8b67-f2e2d9fccefe)
by Tuesday, May 21st at 5:00 PM ET.**  

\###
