---
date: '2024-05-23'
modified_time: 2024-05-23 14:12:21-04:00
published_time: 2024-05-23 16:30:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/05/23/president-biden-announces-key-appointments-to-the-white-house-environmental-justice-advisory-council/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key Appointments to the White\_House Environmental\
  \ Justice Advisory\_Council"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Biden announced his intent to appoint 12
additional members to the White House Environmental Justice Advisory
Council (WHEJAC), which is a federal advisory committee that President
Biden established under Executive Order 14008 of January 27, 2021, on
Tackling the Climate Crisis at Home and Abroad. The Council provides
advice and recommendations to the White House Environmental Justice
Interagency Council and the Chair of the White House Council on
Environmental Quality on how to address current and historic
environmental injustice. The establishment of the WHEJAC marked the
first time that a Presidential advisory body had been tasked with
providing recommendations to the federal government on environmental
justice.  
   
**<u>Members of the White House Environmental Justice Advisory
Council</u>**

-   Tye Baker
-   Anita Cunningham
-   Lloyd Dean
-   Carlos Evans
-   Susan Hendershot
-   Harleen Marwah
-   Igalious Mills
-   Jamaji Nwanaji-Enwerem
-   Joanne Pérodin
-   Michael Walton
-   Donele Wilkins
-   Tanner Yess

**Tye Baker, to be a Member of the White House Environmental Justice
Advisory Council**  
  
Tye Baker has served in multiple roles for the Choctaw Nation of
Oklahoma since 2004. Currently, he serves as the Senior Director of the
Environmental Protection Service for the Choctaw Nation, where he
directs wildlife conservation, resource management, and environmental
sustainability programs for the Choctaw Nation’s reservation. Baker
brings experience working in environmental justice for Tribal and
Indigenous communities to the Council.  
  
**Anita Cunningham, to be a Member of the White House Environmental
Justice Advisory Council**  
  
Anita Cunningham has served as the Director for two organizations
focused on community resilience to climate disasters since 2020, the
North Carolina Disaster Response and Resilience Network and the North
Carolina Climate Solutions Coalition. Cunningham has dedicated her life
to help communities with environmental justice concerns prepare for and
respond to the impacts of climate change. Cunningham brings experience
working with communities to advance climate resilience to the
Council.   
  
**Lloyd Dean, to be a Member of the White House Environmental Justice
Advisory Council**  
  
Lloyd Dean is a nationally recognized healthcare leader and the Chief
Executive Emeritus of CommonSpirit Health, one of the nation’s largest
healthcare systems. In this role, he is responsible for the
organization’s overall management, governance, strategy, and direction.
With over 44 years in healthcare, Dean has worked at the intersection of
climate change and health related impacts, particularly in low-income
communities. Dean brings a valuable healthcare and management
perspective to the Council.  
  
**Carlos Evans, to be a Member of the White House Environmental Justice
Advisory Council**  
  
Carlos Evans is the Director of the Office of Environmental Quality &
Sustainability for the City of Dallas. Evans is a senior executive and
environmental attorney with two decades of experience ensuring
environmental compliance, improving environmental performance, and
advancing equitable environmental sustainability. He previously served
in a career role at the Environmental Protection Agency as Assistant
Regional Counsel in the South Central Region. Evans brings environmental
justice executive and legal advocacy experience to the Council.  
  
**Susan Hendershot, to be a Member of the White House Environmental
Justice Advisory Council**  
  
Susan Hendershot is the President of Interfaith Power & Light, an
organization that engages faith communities around environmental
justice. Previously, Hendershot served in multiple churches in Iowa as
an ordained minister, most recently as the Associate Minister of the
Walnut Hills United Methodist Church in Urbandale, Iowa. Hendershot also
served as a field organizer for the ONE Campaign, a non-profit founded
by Bono that focuses on alleviating global poverty. Hendershot brings
experience in faith leadership and community organizing to the
Council.  
  
**Harleen Marwah, to be a Member of the White House Environmental
Justice Advisory Council**  
  
Harleen Marwah is a Pediatric Resident Physician at Children’s Hospital
of Philadelphia. Marwah is the Founding Chair of Medical Students for a
Sustainable Future, a community of medical students working to prevent
and address the health harms of climate change. Marwah earned Health
Care Without Harm’s 2020 Emerging Physician Leader Award, which
recognizes medical students and professionals who have showcased a
passion for sustainable health care practices and an overall commitment
to climate action. Marwah brings experience in youth engagement and
working at the intersection of healthcare and climate change to the
Council.   
  
**Igalious Mills, to be a Member of the White House Environmental
Justice Advisory Council**  
  
Igalious “Ike” Mills is a third-generation farmer and the Executive
Director of the International Farmers and Ranchers, an organization that
promotes sustainable farming practices and renewable energy efforts in
underserved communities. Previously, Mills served on the U.S. Department
of Agriculture Minority Farmers Advisory Committee and Civil Rights
Sub-Committee. Mills currently serves as the Chairman of the Port Arthur
NAACP Community Development Committee, a critical organization in the
fight against toxic pollution in Port Arthur, Texas. Mills’ experience
in agriculture, sustainable farming, and economic development will bring
a valuable perspective to the Council.  
  
**Jamaji Nwanaji-Enwerem,** **to be a Member of the White House
Environmental Justice Advisory Council**  
  
Jamaji C. Nwanaji-Enweremis an Emergency Medicine Resident Physician and
Adjunct Assistant Professor of Environmental Health at Emory University
School of Medicine and Emory’s Rollins School of Public Health. His
research focuses on how environmental exposures impact human aging and
health, especially in underserved communities. Nwanaji-Enwerem brings
extensive academic research experience and knowledge in health equity
and environmental justice to the Council**.**  
  
**Joanne Pérodin**, **to be a Member of the White House Environmental
Justice Advisory Council**  
  
Joanne Pérodin serves as the Senior Director of Climate Equity at The
Climate Leadership Engagement Opportunities (CLEO) Institute, a
Florida-based non-profit organization working on climate education and
advocacy to build climate literacy and mobilize climate action for a
just, resilient future. Previously, she was the Climate Justice Program
Director for Florida Rising, a voting rights and grassroots organizing
group advancing economic and racial justice across Florida. She also
worked with the Health Initiatives Foundation Inc. by leading climate
disaster resilience initiatives in the U.S., West Africa, and the
Caribbean. Pérodin brings social equity, disaster risk reduction, and
community building experience to the Council.  
  
**Michael Walton**, **to be a Member of the White House Environmental
Justice Advisory Council**  
  
Michael Walton is the General Manager of Energy Transition Finance LLC,
a strategic advisory firm committed to accelerating the deployment of
clean energy technologies. Previously, Walton served as Executive
Director of Green Spaces, a non-profit organization that improves
economic, social, and environmental resilience, with a focus on
empowering the most vulnerable communities in Tennessee. Walton brings
experience in business, community sustainability improvement, and energy
innovation advancement to the Council.  
  
**Donele Wilkins**, **to be a Member of the White House Environmental
Justice Advisory Council**  
  
Donele Wilkins is the President and Chief Executive Officer of the Green
Door Initiative, a non-profit organization promoting environmental
justice in Michigan through green job workforce training and community
organizing. For more than two decades, Wilkins has led local movements
for environmental justice, including advocating for cleaner air and
launching Detroit’s first green jobs training program. Wilkins brings
experience in community-based organizing, planning, and workforce
development to the Council.  
  
**Tanner Yess**, **to be a Member of the White House Environmental
Justice Advisory Council**  
  
Tanner Yess is the founding co-Executive Director of Groundwork Ohio
River Valley, an environmental non-profit that works to expand
climate-resilient natural resources and buildings for low-income
communities. Through this work, Yess has created one of the nation’s
largest green workforce programs. Yess brings expertise in community
organizing, youth engagement, and workforce development to the Council.

\###
