---
date: '2024-05-17'
modified_time: 2024-05-17 16:49:26-04:00
published_time: 2024-05-17 09:13:59-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/05/17/statement-from-president-joe-biden-marking-international-day-against-homophobia-transphobia-and-biphobia/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement from President Joe\_Biden Marking International Day Against Homophobia,\
  \ Transphobia and\_Biphobia"
---
 
On the International Day Against Homophobia, Transphobia and Biphobia,
my Administration stands in support and solidarity with lesbian, gay,
bisexual, transgender, queer, and intersex (LGBTQI+) people around the
world as they seek to live full lives, free from violence and
discrimination. This is a matter of human rights, plain and simple. The
United States applauds those individuals and groups worldwide working to
defend the rights of LGBTQI+ people wherever they are under threat. And
we are grateful for the contributions that LGBTQI+ people make every day
across our nation. 

From Day One of my presidency, my Administration has made advancing the
human rights of LGBTQI+ people a priority. In my first month in office,
I signed a [Presidential Memorandum on Advancing the Human Rights of
LGBTQI+ Persons Around the
World](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/02/04/memorandum-advancing-the-human-rights-of-lesbian-gay-bisexual-transgender-queer-and-intersex-persons-around-the-world/),
directing that our diplomacy and development work around the world be
conducted in a manner that reflects our commitment to the equal human
rights of this population. We have stood up against laws that target
LGBTQI+ people for criminal prosecution; worked to protect LGBTQI+
refugees, who are especially vulnerable to exploitation and abuse; and
launched a [Strategy to Prevent and Respond to Gender-Based Violence
Globally](https://www.state.gov/reports/united-states-strategy-to-prevent-and-respond-to-gender-based-violence-globally-2022/),
to ensure that our efforts to confront the scourge of gender-based
violence address the unique risks and barriers that LGBTQI+ people face.
I also signed an [Executive
Order](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/06/15/executive-order-on-advancing-equality-for-lesbian-gay-bisexual-transgender-queer-and-intersex-individuals/) directing
my Administration to work to prevent the use of so-called “conversion
therapy” – an abusive and discredited practice that often targets
children.  And my Administration continues to engage with governments,
faith leaders, families, and communities worldwide to protect and
promote respect for human rights, including LGBTQI+ rights.

Efforts like these have yielded tangible results. During the past year,
the United States has responded to abuses of LGBTQI+ people abroad.
We’ve developed an approach to foreign assistance that ensures LGBTQI+
people aren’t overlooked in our work. We’ve expanded access for LGBTQI+
people through our refugee programs. And the [Special Envoy to Advance
the Human Rights of LGBTQI+
Persons](https://www.state.gov/biographies/jessica-stern/), whom I
appointed, is driving rapid response to proposed anti-LGBTQI+
legislation around the world. We’ve seen how American leadership makes a
difference; over the past decade, a growing number of nations have
decriminalized same-sex conduct, often with the encouragement of the
United States.

Yet we know there is much more to do. LGBTQI+ communities around the
world still face hate-fueled violence and discrimination. They still
struggle to attain equal access to healthcare, housing, employment,
education, and justice. Like all human beings, LGBTQI+ people deserve
equality – equal rights, equal citizenship, equal dignity. It is our
shared moral responsibility to fight back against homophobia, biphobia,
and transphobia, just as we must fight back against all hate-fueled
violence, at home and abroad.

Today marks the 34<sup>th</sup> anniversary of when the World Health
Organization made the wise and overdue decision to declassify
‘homosexuality’ as a mental disorder. That was a victory for LGBTQI+
people and human rights defenders everywhere. 30 years later, the work
of equality continues. The Biden-Harris Administration is proud to be a
part of it.

\###
