---
date: '2024-05-07'
published_time: 2024-05-07 10:13:09-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/05/07/what-they-are-saying-advocates-leaders-applaud-administrations-new-action-to-expand-affordable-quality-health-care-coverage-to-daca-recipients/
tags: statements-releases
title: "WHAT THEY ARE SAYING: Advocates, Leaders Applaud Administration\u2019s New\
  \ Action to Expand Affordable, Quality Health Care Coverage to DACA\_Recipients"
---
 
Last week, the Biden-Harris Administration expanded affordable, quality
health care coverage to Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA)
recipients. Dreamers are our loved ones, our nurses, teachers, and small
business owners, and President Biden and Vice President Harris believe
they deserve the promise of health care just like all of us. The final
rule announced last week will provide Dreamers the same access to health
care under the Affordable Care Act as other Americans, twelve years
after President Obama and Vice President Biden provided a path for them
to live and work legally in the United States.  
  
While only Congress can provide Dreamers permanent status and a pathway
to citizenship, President Biden remains committed to protecting and
preserving DACA and providing Dreamers with the opportunities and
support they need to succeed, including access to affordable, quality
health care coverage.   
  
*See below for what they are saying:*  
  
**<u>Congressional Leaders And Caucuses</u>**  
  
**Leader Chuck Schumer (D-NY): **“I applaud President Biden for this
highly impactful policy change that lives up to the greatest ideals of
America and will improve the lives of so many Dreamers.”
\[[Tweet](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=1ca681b3b5&e=3a5b5674a7),
5/3/24\]  
  
**Senator Catherine Cortez Masto (D-NV): “**This is incredible news, and
it’s going to make a real difference here in Nevada.”
\[[Tweet](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=d0ef678732&e=3a5b5674a7),
5/3/24\]  
  
**Senator John Fetterman (D-PA):** “Joe Biden is a president who
delivers—this time for Dreamers, who will now have expanded access to
affordable, high-quality health care through the Affordable Care Act.”
\[[Tweet](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=d7d129196d&e=3a5b5674a7),
5/3/24\]  
  
**Senator Alex Padilla (D-CA):** “NEWS: DACA recipients will be eligible
for health care coverage under the Affordable Care Act starting this
year! Grateful that @POTUS heeded @HispanicCaucus calls to secure high
quality and affordable health care for DACA recipients.” 
\[[Tweet](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=510a2ea11a&e=3a5b5674a7),
5/3/24\]  
  
**Senator Laphonza Butler (D-CA):** “I applaud@potus and his
administration for taking a step toward bettering the lives of DACA
recipients. Starting this November, more than 100K DACA recipients will
be eligible to enroll in Affordable Care Act coverage.” 
\[[Tweet](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=e2e89cfb0e&e=3a5b5674a7),
5/3/24\]  
  
**Rep. Nannette Barragan (D-CA-44):** “CHC applauds the Biden-Harris
administration for expanding access to the ACA to Dreamers. This is a
huge win for Dreamers who will now have access to affordable healthcare.
\[…\] Everyone deserves access to healthcare. Now, tens of thousands of
Dreamers who are American in every way and are part of the American
fabric will have access to high quality and affordable health insurance.
This will pave the road to healthier communities and improve their
quality of lives.” \[Statement, 5/3/2024\]  
  
**Rep. Joaquin Castro (D-TX-20):** “Over the last twelve years, DACA has
allowed hundreds of thousands of first-generation Americans to graduate
from college, join the workforce, and chase their American dreams in the
only country many of them have ever known. Throughout that time, these
young Americans have been asked to work and pay taxes to support a
system of affordable health care that excluded them. Today’s
announcement is an important step forward to right that wrong. The rapid
spread and devastating toll of the COVID-19 pandemic was a reminder that
our country is safer when everyone has access to the care they need. I’m
proud to see the Biden administration heed the calls of public health
advocates and immigrant communities and open the Affordable Care Act
marketplace to DACA recipients, and I hope the administration will also
move to similarly expand Medicaid and CHIP eligibility as soon as
possible.” \[Statement, 5/3/2024\]  
  
**Rep. Veronica Escobar (D-TX-16):** “DACA recipients work the same jobs
and pay the same taxes as anyone in our community, and some have been
doing so for years. It’s only right that they have access to the same
healthcare services. I’m thankful the Biden administration is taking
this historic step.”
\[[Tweet,](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=af6d7d8893&e=3a5b5674a7) 5/3/2024\]  
  
**Rep. Pramila Jayapal (D-WA-07):** “I want to thank and applaud
President Biden and Secretary Becerra for today’s announcement that
allows DACA recipients to access health care and enhances coverage for
other groups, including those approved for Special Immigrant Juvenile
(SIJ) status and children applying for humanitarian relief.  \[…\]
Health care is a human right, and DACA recipients deserve access to that
care just like everyone else.” \[Statement, 5/3/2024\]  
  
**Rep. Linda Sanchez (D-CA-38):** “Great news – @POTUS announced that
DACA recipients will soon be able to access health care through the
ACA.  
DACA recipients pay taxes, contribute to our economy, & they deserve
access to health care. I will continue fighting for health equity &
citizenship for our Dreamers.”
\[[Tweet,](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=d121f9f4d1&e=3a5b5674a7) 5/3/2024\]  
  
**Rep. Sylvia Garcia (D-TX-29):** “I have been fighting for our Dreamers
since before I came to Congress, and I commend the Biden Administration
for taking this critical step in expanding access to the
\#AffordableCareAct to include \#DACA recipients.”
\[[Tweet](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=b67d4684c6&e=3a5b5674a7),
5/3/2024\]  
  
**Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX-18):** “Amazing progress, thank you
@POTUS!”
\[[Tweet,](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=519c85a1bc&e=3a5b5674a7) 5/3/2024\]  
  
**Rep. Katherine Clark (D-MA-05):** “NEWS: DACA recipients will now have
access to affordable, quality health insurance through the ACA.    
President Biden is committed to supporting our dreamers, who are an
integral part of the fabric of America. They deserve the promise of
health care just like all of us.”
\[[Tweet,](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=fa31113277&e=3a5b5674a7) 5/3/2024\]  
  
**Rep. Gerry Connolly (D-VA-11):** “This is fantastic news. DACA
recipients are taxpayers like you and me. There is no reason they should
be denied the option of getting health care coverage through the ACA. My
colleagues and I urged President Biden to do this last year. Thankful to
him for making it happen.” \[Tweet, 5/3/2024\]  
  
**Rep. Rob Menendez (D-NJ-08):** “This is incredible news for Dreamers,
allowing over 100K to have access to affordable and quality
healthcare.  
@POTUS is making good on his promise to protect and support DACA
recipients. Healthcare is a right, not a privilege, and this rule
reflects that belief.”
\[[Tweet,](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=17d0437f2c&e=3a5b5674a7) 5/3/2024\]   
  
**Rep. Judy Chu (D-CA-28):** “DACA recipients are Americans through and
through—serving their communities, opening businesses, and raising
American families. Since President Obama’s creation of the DACA program
in 2012, young people brought to this country by family, including
thousands from Asia and the Pacific, have had the ability to obtain work
permits, generate wealth for themselves and their community, and pay
taxes that go toward the services we all benefit from. Today’s
announcement by President Biden builds on the program—finally providing
DACA recipients the life-changing opportunity to purchase health
insurance on the Affordable Care Act marketplaces. Everyone deserves the
security that comes with health care coverage and the ability to see a
doctor for treatment, and I’m so thrilled that more than 100,000 DACA
recipients will soon have access to that coverage.”
\[[Statement,](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=6453860a15&e=3a5b5674a7)5/3/2024\]  
  
**Rep. Barbara Lee (D-CA-12):** “Last year, I sent a letter to @POTUS
calling on his administration to expand health coverage for \#DACA
recipients. Today, he came through! 👏🏾 This move will impact thousands.
\#Dreamers are Americans, and they deserve accessible, affordable,
quality health care.”
\[[Tweet,](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=f127be69da&e=3a5b5674a7) 5/3/2024\]  
  
**Rep. Chuy Garcia (D-IL-04):** “DACA recipients are our neighbors,
coworkers, friends, and loved ones. They deserve health care like
everyone else. I applaud the President for expanding access to health
care for 100,000 DACA recipients” 
\[[Tweet,](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=cb378dda9a&e=3a5b5674a7)5/3/2024\]  
  
**Rep. Lou Correa (D-CA-46): **“DACA recipients are essential to our
community—they’re our students, leaders, and servicemembers. I’m proud
to have supported this new rule in Congress, and to finally see expanded
health care access become a reality for these young adults.”
\[[Tweet](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=07c8c1cb12&e=3a5b5674a7),
5/3/2024\]  
  
**Rep. Deborah Ross (D-NC-02):** “DACA recipients will soon be eligible
for affordable, accessible health care coverage through the ACA.  
I’m grateful for the leadership of @POTUS & his support for Dreamers.
I’ll keep working to ensure all Dreamers can access the resources & care
they deserve.”
\[[Tweet,](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=6d38f12c70&e=3a5b5674a7) 5/3/2024\]  
  
**Rep. Juan Vargas (D-CA-52):** “Dreamers are our neighbors, teachers,
nurses, students, and family members. They should be able to access
affordable health coverage in the only country they call home. I applaud
the Biden Administration for taking this important step that will
improve thousands of lives and provide Dreamers with the support they
deserve. I’ll always stand up for Dreamers, and I’m not going to stop
pushing for comprehensive immigration reform, including a pathway to
citizenship for the Dreamers, Temporary Protected Status holders, and
farmworkers who enrich our economy and our communities.”
\[[Statement,](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=544e123d73&e=3a5b5674a7)5/3/2024\]  
  
**Rep. Sean Casten (D-IL-06):** “Dreamers deserve accessible,
affordable, and quality health care. This is a great move to ensure
access for all.”
\[[Tweet,](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=9384dd667c&e=3a5b5674a7)5/3/2024\]  
  
**Ranking Member Richard E. Neal, Ways and Means Committee:** “Fourteen
years after its passage, the Affordable Care Act remains a driving force
behind building a stronger, healthier America. Today, the Biden
Administration is correcting years of an unjust exclusion that has kept
thousands from health care coverage, and finally bringing DACA
recipients into the peace of mind and security that health coverage
under the Affordable Care Act affords our nation. This is a historic
step forward for our communities, and Ways and Means Democrats will
continue to work towards the high-quality, affordable health care system
that the American people
deserve.” \[[Statement,](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=539ca831e5&e=3a5b5674a7) 5/03/24\]  
  
**<u>Local Government</u>**  
  
**Mayor John Giles (<u>Mesa, Arizona</u>  – R): **Giving DACA
recipients—who are often our nurses, teachers, and small business
owners—the ability to purchase health insurance, is a smart and
compassionate move. Thank you, @POTUS, for giving Dreamers access to
affordable healthcare.
\[[Tweet,](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=e87834329b&e=3a5b5674a7) 5/3/2024\]  
  
**Mayor Ron Nirenberg (<u>San Antonio, TX</u> – I):**Extremely grateful
for @POTUS’ actions to expand the Affordable Care Act’s eligibility to
DACA recipients. Texas is home to tens of thousands of dreamers. This
step will undoubtedly improve San Antonio’s overall health.
\[[Tweet,](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=cb3c503257&e=3a5b5674a7) 5/3/2024\]  
  
**<u>Community and Advocacy Organizations</u>**  
  
**Voto Latino:** “HUGE VICTORY: Thanks to the Biden Administration, more
than 100,000 DACA recipients will have access to the Affordable Care Act
for the first time ever. 🎉We’re by no means done. We must continue the
fight to protect Dreamers everywhere.”
\[[Statement,](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=4e86338585&e=3a5b5674a7) 5/03/24\]  
  
**President Kica Matos, National Immigration Law Center:** “We are
thrilled that DACA recipients will finally be able to access health care
through the Affordable Care Act. We commend the Biden administration for
taking this important step for health equity and immigrant justice. Even
as we celebrate this victory, we must also remember that politically
motivated attacks on DACA continue, DACA recipients remain in limbo, and
the health and wellbeing of our communities has suffered as a result. We
continue to urge Congress to pass a pathway to citizenship for immigrant
youth who call this country home, so they can enjoy the same peace and
stability that we all need to thrive.”
\[[Statement,](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=59dad5e86d&e=3a5b5674a7)5/03/24\]  
  
**Executive Director Mayra Macias, Building Back Together: **“Today’s
announcement underscores President Biden’s commitment and unequivocal
support for Dreamers and DACA recipients. Once again, the Biden-Harris
Administration is taking a bold step towards equity and inclusivity in
health care access by ensuring that approximately 100,000 DACA
recipients can enjoy the peace of mind and security that access to
health care brings. By expanding DACA recipients’ health care options,
President Biden is reaffirming that health care is a fundamental right,
and that everyone, including hardworking DACA recipients, deserves the
opportunity and resources needed to live a healthy and fulfilling
life.” \[[Statement,](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=24f89389db&e=3a5b5674a7)5/03/24\]  
  
**Deputy Director Becca Telzak, Make the Road New York: “**We applaud
the efforts of the federal government to expand federal health care
coverage to DACA recipients. This move, which follows in the footsteps
of a hard-fought and successful campaign in New York to expand health
care coverage to DACA recipients, will allow communities across the
country to access affordable and quality healthcare coverage to see a
doctor, receive preventative care, treatments and more and allows DACA
recipients in New York who weren’t already covered by insurance to
access federal tax credits and subsidies.”
\[[Statement,](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=e46b2aae2c&e=3a5b5674a7) 5/03/24\]  
  
**President and CEO Gaby Pacheco, TheDream.US:** “Today’s announcement
is a meaningful step forward to help DACA recipients more fully
participate and give back to this nation. DACA remains one of the most
popular and successful immigration policies in U.S. history and its
recipients are increasingly homeowners, essential employees, and parents
heading households all throughout America. Ensuring their access to
healthcare coverage through the ACA will help thousands of families
sleep a little easier at night – including TheDream.US alumni who have
relied on DACA to work as doctors, nurses, and in other healthcare
occupations. Of course, at a time when the future of the DACA program
itself remains uncertain due to legal challenges that have barred
younger Dreamers from even applying into the program, we still need the
same solution that is two decades in the making: Congress to work
together to deliver permanent legal status for Dreamers with and without
DACA. As we work toward that goal, we celebrate any steps forward that
expands opportunities for Dreamers, such as today’s positive
announcement.”
\[[Statement](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=1aa4d14248&e=3a5b5674a7),
5/03/24\]  
  
**Alumna Indira Islas, TheDream.US**: “I am proud to be part of a family
of healthcare workers – my parents were doctors in Mexico, my sister is
a nurse, and I am an aspiring doctor and have a graduate degree in
public health. Providing opportunities and healthcare access to DACA
recipients is good for families like mine and for the entire nation. The
majority of Americans agree that Dreamers are Americans in all but their
official paperwork and accessing healthcare shouldn’t be a barrier for
any American. By eliminating this barrier to access the ACA marketplace,
this rule will be a game-changer for over 100,000 DACA recipients. Our
contributions as DACA recipients, including as fellow healthcare
workers, have been well-documented. Today’s announcement is a good thing
for us and for America.”
\[[Statement](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=52c49822ca&e=3a5b5674a7),
5/03/24\]  
  
**Executive Director Miriam Feldblum, Presidents’ Alliance on Higher
Education and Immigration:** “We applaud the rule expanding ACA
eligibility access to DACA recipients. The Presidents’ Alliance had
called on the current Administration to issue the regulation, which is
much welcomed and will strengthen the nation. DACA recipients contribute
billions of dollars in tax revenue annually, fill critical job shortages
in our economy, are employed in essential jobs supporting our
communities, and fuel our country with their talent and
entrepreneurship.”
\[[Statement](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=b6de518256&e=3a5b5674a7),
5/03/24\]  

*\###*
