---
date: '2025-02-19'
modified_time: 2025-02-20 18:12:08-05:00
published_time: 2025-02-19 18:10:48-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/remarks/2025/02/press-gaggle-by-president-trump-at-future-investment-initiative-institute-priority-summit/
tags: remarks
title: Press Gaggle by President Trump at Future Investment Initiative Institute Priority
  Summit
---
 
Faena Hotel & Forum

Miami Beach, Florida

(February 19, 2025)

5:35 P.M. EST

     THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much.  (Applause.)  What a great
group this is.  You have to see outside.  It’s going wild outside with a
lot of love for all of us, I guess.  (Laughter.)

But thank you, Richard, for the introduction.  And thank you to all for
such a warm welcome. 

It’s great to be back in beautiful Miami, where I’ve actually built a
lot of great buildings with the Dezer family and some others.  We’ve had
tremendous success in Miami.  We have Trump Towers in Sunny Isles
Beach.  It’s four beautiful buildings right on the ocean. 

The Trump Grande — put the little E on the end for a little — class it
up a little bit.  (Laughter.)  Trump Grande. 

And the 700-acre Doral.  That’s a tremendous country club in the — it’s
actually the most successful country club in the U.S., where I was just
given approval to build 1,500 units.

And I couldn’t care less about building units.  When you’re president,
who the hell wants to build units?  (Laughter.)  I’ve been building
units all my life.  I don’t want to build units, but they gave us
permission to do it.

But today is a tremendous honor to become the first American president
to address the Future Investment Initiative Institute.  That’s the first
one.  That’s very — it’s always nice.  (Applause.)

And I want to thank Mayor of Miami Francis Suarez for being here.  Thank
you very much, Francis, wherever you may be.  (Applause.)  Hi, Francis. 
And thank you for the endorsement when I ran.  I was very appreciative. 

Along with the mayor of Miami Beach, Steven Meiner.  Steven, thank you
very much.  Thank you.  (Applause.)  Thank you.  Thank you, Steven. 
Thank you very much.

And numerous American business leaders, some of the bi- — biggest
business leaders, actually, anywhere in the world, and many
distinguished guests from the Middle East, and, in particular, the
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia — a special place with special leaders. 
(Applause.)

And including FII Institute chairman and governor of the Public
Investment Fund, which is a seriously big fund, Yasir.  I see you
there.  Stand up, Yasir.  (Applause.)  Everyone knows Yasir.  Thank
you.  Great guy.  Great, great person.

And Finance Minister Mohammed, thank you very much.  Thank you right —
thank you very much.  (Applause.)  Good to see you again.  That’s pretty
good: finance minister of that part of the world.  That’s not bad. 
(Laughter.)  Other parts of the world, not so good, but that one is
good.  (Laughter.) 

And many other senior government leaders.  I also want to recognize the
Kingdom’s ambassador to the United States, Her Royal Highness Princess
Reema.  (Applause.)  Ooh, very popular.  Very popular.  Wow.  That’s
very nice.  Sitting next to Elon.  Wow, that’s — you couldn’t do better
than that, huh?  (Applause.) 

As well as my own special envoy to the Middle East, who has really done
a fantastic job, Steve Witkoff.  Thank you, Steve.  (Applause.)  He’s
been busy.  And Michael Waltz is here.  Where is Michael?  Michael has
been so busy.  They’ve been going back and forth and back. 

And a woman who was just voted the most powerful woman an- — anywhere in
the world — (applause) — no, I’ll go with — I’m going to go with
Princess Reema — but she was voted the most powerful woman anywhere in
the world: Susie Wiles.  Thank you.  (Applause.)  Thank you.  Most
powerful woman, that’s pretty good.  We have to talk to you about that,
Susie.  That’s pretty good.  (Laughter.)

And also, we all know Jared Kushner, a very special guy.  (Applause.) 
Thank you, Jared.  Thank you, Jared.

And Elon Musk.  He’s been making a little news lately, hasn’t he,
though?  (Applause.)  Very positive news.  Stand up, Elon.  (Applause.) 
He’s a great guy. 

We did a little show last night.  I heard that it got very good ratings,
too, by the way.  We did “Hannity.”  Sean Hannity was fantastic — a
fantastic man, a fantastic guy, and he did a show.  And it was great
being on the show with you last night.

I come today with a simple message for business leaders from all across
the nation and all around the world: If you want to build the future,
push boundaries, unleash breakthroughs, transform industries, and make a
fortune — because you want to make fortune; most of you have already
made a fortune, I don’t want to say — (laughter) — there is no better
place on Earth than the current and future United States of America
under a certain president named Donald J. Trump.  I think that you’re
going to do very well.  (Applause.)

They’re saying that November 5th — Election Day — 2024, will go down as
one of the most important days in the history of our country.  They
said, “In 129 years, the most consequential election.”  I don’t know if
they’re right about that or not, but it sounds good.  I wanted to see if
I could get a couple of more years tacked on, but I figured the fight
wasn’t really worth it.  One hundred and twenty-nine is a lot. 

And as of January 20th, 2025, the dark days of high taxes, crushing
regulations, rampant inflation, flagrant corruption, government
weaponization — ooh, I know about weaponization — and total incompetence
will be gone forever.  Will be gone forever.  (Applause.)  Because the
United States is back and open for business, and the golden age of
America has officially begun.  You see it happening.  (Applause.)

Since my election, America’s economic engines have come roaring back to
life in just a very short period of time.  Think of it.  From November
5th, the — the progress that’s been made has been amazing.  The Nasdaq
is up nearly 10 percent in just a few months, and that’s a lot.  The Dow
Jones Industrial Average is up 2,200 points. 

And Bitcoin has set multiple all-time record highs, because everyone
knows that I’m committed to making America the crypto capital.  We want
to stay — we want to stay at the forefront of everything, and one of
them is crypto.  And Miami seems to be the center of the action, come to
think of it, and maybe it’ll stay there.

Business optimism skyrocketed 42 points — think of that — in a single
month.  The most in history, by far.  That’s the biggest increase in
history by not even close. 

The ISM index of manufacturing activity surged into positive territory
for the first time in many years.  Amazing. 

And it was just announced — this is an interesting one.  I didn’t
realize it was that bad for so long.  But it was just announced by one
of the nation’s most historically accurate and respected pollsters,
Rasmussen, that the number of Americans who believe our country is on
the right track now exceeds those who think it’s heading in the wrong
direction for the first time in 20 years.  Can you believe you that? 
Twenty years.  (Applause.)  And this is really a seismic 27-point swing
from just before the election.  That’s — nobody has ever seen anything
like that one, Yasir.  I want to tell you.  That’s a big one. 
(Laughter.)

The best and most successful business leaders on Earth are now racing to
invest in the United States.  Since November, DAMAC has announced plans
to invest $40 billion in the U.S., creating at least 10,000 jobs. 
SoftBank has announced investments of between $100- and $200 billion,
creating at least 100,000 American jobs.  Oracle and OpenAI and SoftBank
are now collectively committing $500 billion to keep the United States
on the cutting edge of artificial intelligence. 

And so many more — I mean, so many companies, they want to come to the
White House and have a little news conference all the time.  I said,
“Why don’t you just announce it?”  But they want to come, and I’ll do
that.  I don’t mind doing that.  I say anytime they want to go $10
billion or more, I’m — I’m there.  (Laughter and applause.)  Ten billion
or more.

But on his recent visit to the White House, the prime minister of Japan
announced he anticipates Japanese investment in the United States of
well over a trillion dollars, and we’re working on an Alaska pipeline
already, which is the closest point to Asia. 

And as you know, the ANWR, which we’ve started, Ronald Reagan couldn’t
get it approved.  Nobody could get it approved for so many years. 
Couldn’t get it approved.  I got it approved.  Actually, I got it
approved twice.  I got it approved, and Biden ended it.  That was a
shocker.  But we just got it approved again.  And we’re going to be —
(applause) — it’s — it’s probably the largest deposit maybe anywhere in
the world, just by itself.  It’s — they say of similar size to Saudi
Arabia, so we hope that’s correct.

But all of this is only happening because of the world-changing results
of the 2024 election.  We won the House.  We won the Senate, the White
House, and the Electoral College and the popular vote in a landslide. 
We also won all seven swing states, and all 50 states shifted in the
Republican direction for the first time ever.  So, every state — every
single state of the 50 states shifted Republican.  That’s never happened
before.  Either way, it’s never happened. 

And 85 percent of counties voted for Trump.  Think of that.  So, you
have 2,600 counties versus 525.  Two thousand six hundred, think of
that.  That’s why when you look at the election map, after it was all
done — the certified map — the whole thing was red — 2,600 versus 500. 
It’s a big, big dif- — nobody’s seen anything like it, actually. 

So, as a result of this very historic victory, investors from all over
the planet, once again, have confidence in America’s future and respect
for America’s leaders, and it’s about time we get a little respect. 

The last administration was the worst and most incompetent in the
history of our country, but we are moving quickly to fix every single
disaster Joe Biden created and make America stronger and more prosperous
than ever before.  (Applause.)

Our first and most urgent mission is to remove the criminals that Biden
allowed into our country with the ridiculous and very dangerous
open-borders policy.  They came from all over the world.  They came from
prisons and jails.  They came from mental institutions and insane
asylums.  They were gang members.  They were drug lords.  They came from
all over, and they were allowed to come into our country.  And we’re
getting them out in record levels, just like they came in in record
levels. 

I want to thank Tom Homan and Kristi, who is just doing — she’s doing a
fantastic job — governor of South Dakota — and Tom Homan, you know, and
they are doing a fantastic job.  (Applause.)  And the results are
incredible.

And every country is taking them back.  They’re sending their criminals
to us, and they’re all taking them back.  We had a little problem with a
couple of them.  That ended very quickly.  And because some said, “We
don’t really want MS-13 back in our country.”  But I said,
“Congratulations, you’re taking them back,” and they take them back. 

And, by the way, Europe and other places ought to start also doing
that.  They better start looking at immigration, because it’s really
hurting Europe very, very badly.  And they better get smart and they
better get tough before it’s too late. 

We’re also working to end the highest inflation in our country’s
history, all caused because they played with our energy policy and
wasted money on the Green New Scam and other things such as that, and
they wasted monies at — at never-seen-before levels.  If Joe Biden had
simply held federal spending at the pre-pandemic levels we had in 2019,
we — right now, we would have virtually no inflation. 

We’re trying to balance the budget immediately, and because of the
tariff income, which is really go- — it’s — it’s already turned out to
be amazing, actually.  It’s really meant more for bringing countries and
companies into our country, but it’s — the numbers are rather
staggering, because we’re the big piggy bank that everybody wants to
be.  And they can play games, and they can say, “Well, there’ll be
retribution and, you know, equal this and that,” but they can’t be
equal. 

But we want to keep it so that we’re the big piggy bank.  And if we had
years like we did the last four years, that wouldn’t have lasted too
long.  So, we’re not promising it, but you know, all of these things
could happen.  We — we hope to balance our budget. 

So, I don’t want to promise it, because if I do and we come about $10
short, the fake news media back there would say, “We have breaking
news.  He did not make it.  He did not make it.” 

But we’ll get it done very soon.  It might not be this year, but it
could be this year.  Actually, we have a chance at getting it even this
year, which people would be shocked at, because they were talking about
10 years, 15 years, 20 years from now.

When I took office last month, we inherited the consequences of
inflation that was more than four times what it was when I left four
years ago.  Think of that, I left, it was at 1.4 percent.  And the
annual government spending over $1.5 trillion more than projected in
2020 alone — $1.5 trillion.

But under the Trump administration, all of that is changing faster and
more dramatically than anyone ever thought possible.  They didn’t think
it was possible to do what we’ve done in just a very short period of
time.  We’ve accomplished more in four weeks than most administrations
accomplish in four years. 

On my first day in office, I imposed an immediate federal hiring freeze,
a federal regulation freeze, and a foreign aid freeze. 

I signed an order creating the Department of Government Efficiency and
put a man named Elon Musk in charge.  Thank you, Elon, for doing it. 
(Applause.)  Thank you very much. 

And he’s doing a great job.  I wish you could have seen him last night. 
It’s really — you know, he’s a very committed person.  He’s a very
serious person.  And he’s a very high-IQ people. 

You know, I like high-IQ people.  Not all have to be, but, you know,
it’d be nice to have some people up there that — (laughter) — he’s a
seriously high-IQ individual.  Now, he’s got his faults also, I will
tell you that — (laughter) — but not too many of them.

Which is now really waging war on government waste, fraud, and abuse,
and they’re curbing inflation and saving taxpayers billions and billions
of dollars every single day.  And there’s even under consideration a new
concept where we give 20 percent of the DOGE savings to American
citizens and 20 percent goes to paying down debt, because the numbers
are incredible, Elon.  So many billions of dollars — it’s billions —
hundreds of billions, and we’re thinking about giving 20 percent back to
the American citizens and 20 percent down to pay back debt — and pay
down debt, which is — if you look at value, if it were a real estate
balance sheet, the debt is tiny, but we still — we still want to pay it
down.  Doesn’t matter.  We don’t look at it as a piece of real estate. 
It’s America.  We’re going to get it down through intelligence, hard
work, and, as Elon said, a word called “caring.”  You have to have — you
have to care. 

By doing this, Americans will tell us where there is waste.  They’ll be
reporting it themselves.  They participate in the process of saving
money. 

So many of the men and women in this room, as an example, they pay
tremendous amounts of taxes.  And here are just a few examples of where
your money was going before I came along.  These are just some of the —
just taken at random.  Oh, there are much worse examples than this.  I
was just looking at them before the speech, and I can tell you there
were much worse.  And there are some that are horrible, but I don’t want
to really say them, because they’re very, very embarrassing to people —
very, very embarrassing.  And they’re really something, but you’ll be
seeing it and you will be reading about it.

But just some taking at random:

$2 million for sex change operations in Guatemala.

$20 million for “Sesame Street” performances in Iraq.  Twenty million,
that’s a lot of money.  (Laughter.)  You know, I know what it costs to
do those things.  You get a cast over for $50,000, give them a couple of
bucks tip.  That’s it.  Not $20 million.  (Laughter.)  Twenty million,
that’s “Gone With the Wind” on steroids.  (Laughter.)

$101 million for 29 diversity, equity, and inclusion contracts at the
Department of Education.  Wow.

And we’ve also canceled — we’ve canceled all of these, saved all of this
money.  And, again, this is just a small sample.  This could go on.  I
could read them all day. 

$520 million for a consultant — I want to know who is that consultant —
(laughter) — to do ESG — that’s environmental, social, and governance —
investments in Africa. 

$25 million to promote biodiversity conservation and licit livelihoods
by developing socially responsible behavior in Colombia. 

$40 million to improve the social and economic inclusion of sedentary
migrants.  Nobody knows what that even means.  None of this stuff. 
Nobody.  (Laughter.)  Everyone is trying to figure out, “What the hell
does it all mean?”

$42 million for social and behavior changes in Uganda.  Forty million is
a lot of newspaper ads in Uganda.  (Laughter.)

$70 million for research of evidence-based solutions for development
challenges.

$10 million for Mozambique medical male circumcision.  (Laughter.)  What
does that — what does that mean?

$2.3 million dollars for strengthening independent voices in Cambodia. 
(Laughter.)

$14 million for improving public procurement in Serbia.

$486 million to the Consortium for Elections and Political Process
Strengthening, including $22 million for inclusion — inclusive and
participatory political process in Moldova and $21 million for voter
turnout in India.  What do we need to spend $21 million for voter
turnout in India?  Wow, $21 million.  I guess they were trying to get
somebody else elected.  Wow, we ought to tell the Indian government,
because when we hear that Russia spent about two dollars in our country,
it was a big deal.  Right?  (Laughter.)  They took — they took some
Internet ads for $2,000.  This is a total breakthrough: twenty-one
million dollars for India elections.

$29 million to strengthen the political landscape in Bangladesh.

$20 million for fiscal federalism, and $19 million in addition to the
$21 million, for biodiversity <s>conversion</s> \[conservation\] in
Nepal.

$1.5 million for voter confidence in Liberia.  We need voter confidence
too, when you read this list.  (Laughter.) 

$14 million for social cohesion in Mali.

$2.5 million for inclusive democracies in South Africa.

$47 million for improving learning outcomes in Asia.  Asia is doing very
well.  We don’t need to give them money.  (Laughter.)

And in another program, $50 million, plus another $50 million, for
condoms for Hamas.  You know about that?  (Laughter.)  A hundred million
dollars for condoms.  Condoms.  Does everybody know what a condom is? 
(Laughter.)  For Hamas — $100 million. 

And these are just some.  I could read this list all day long.  I just
don’t want to bore you.  But these are just some, and not nearly as bad
as others.  And some are just — I just don’t want to say them because
they’re too — they’re too <s>incenduary</s> \[incendiary\].

We’re also finding tremendous abuse, waste, and fraud in Social
Security.  Social Security is — what’s happening there is going to be
one of the great potential scandals in history. 

On the program, there are over 4.7 million Social Security numbers from
people from 100 years old to 109.  Think of that.  Now, over 100, there
aren’t a lot of people that make it.  Hopefully most of the people in
this room will make it, but historically, you don’t have thousands and
thousands of people.  But listen to this: 3.6 million people are on
Social Security rolls from the age of 110 years old to 119.  Do you
think there are really that many?  (Laughter.)  Those people are
seriously old.  (Laughter.)  But it gets worse. 

3.47 million — 3.47 million people are on Social Security from the age
of 120 years old to 129 years old. 

3.9 million people are on the age of Social Security from 130 years old
to 139 years old.  Now the all-time record, I heard, is a woman who was
a hundred — she was 127 years old.  That’s the record.  A woman from a
certain country where they have actually people that live pretty long,
actually.  And she was 127 years old.  That’s pretty old, but we’re
topping her by millions — millions of people.  (Laughter.) 

3.5 million people from the age 140 to 149 years old. 

1.3 million people are on Social Security from the age 150 to 159. 

And over 130,000 people are on Social Security over the age of 160 years
old — okay? — including 1,039 people — think of it — over 1,000 people —
between the ages of 220 to 229.  (Laughter.)  And one person between the
age of 240 to 249. 

And the record-topper: There is one person on Social Security who is 360
years old — (laughter) — which is approximately 110 years older than our
country.  (Laughter and applause.) 

So, what we’re trying to find out and what we will find out is are
people being paid from all of these.  You know, is somebody pocketing
$10,000 here, $10,000 there?  What’s going on?  So, we’ll find that out
pretty easily because we have a lot of computer geniuses.

I said to Elon, “Who are these people that are doing this, the DOGE
people?”  I said, “Who are they?  Where do they come from?”  He said,
“Well, number one, they love our country, and, number two, they’re
really genius at computers.”  So, nobody is going to fool them.  When
they go in, they see some bureaucrat that’s scamming the country, and
they try and talk about, you know, certain computer language, these
people say, “No, it doesn’t work that way.”  These are people that are —
have a natural ability as — as, you know, brilliant computer people.

It was very interesting when he told me that.  I said, “That’s what you
need today.” 

But all of these scams have now been terminated. 

In addition, over the past month, we have effectively eliminated the
U.S. Agency for International Development, which was funding much of
this lunacy.  We virtually shut down the out-of-control CFPB, escorting
radical-left bureaucrats out of the building and locking the doors
behind them.  What they were doing was so terrible.  Where they were
spending the money was so terrible. 

What we haven’t looked at yet but will be is does the money come back to
them, because nobody can be stupid like that.  And they’re not stupid. 
They’re smart, actually.  And, you know, why are doing that?  Does money
come back to them?  So, we’ll figure that out pretty easily, I think,
and quickly.

But I’ve ended all of the so-called diversity, equity, and inclusion
programs across the entire federal government and private sector and
notified every single government DEI officer that their jobs have been
deleted.  They’re all deleted.  And it’s interesting, even these country
— these companies that have tremendous — the amounts of money — a number
of them just announced — Walmart, if you can believe it, they just
announced that they’re stopping. 

And, you know, these companies are writing off, like, $220 million.  How
can you spend that much money no matter what you’re doing?  If you’re
teaching something, you’re going to have an instructor, you’re going to
talk, you’re going to give them a book, “Please read the book.”  You
know, and then you find they spent $225 million on that.  What’s going
on?

And we were going in the wrong way, and our military was really —
although, I tell you, you know, we — we defeated ISIS with our military
in three weeks.  General “Razin” Caine was — he’s some general.  He’s a
real general, not a television general.  And three weeks — ISIS.  And I
— I asked him, and I saw some of his people that were so great, the
soldiers.  We have the greatest military in the world, but we don’t have
the greatest top, top leadership.  That’s why Afghanistan was such a
horrible situation and so embarrassing and so many other things. 

But when we want to, with proper leadership, there’s nobody even close
to us.  We have the best equipment in the world.  We make the best
equipment in the world.  But we have the best military, but, you know,
we never fight to win.  We fight to just keep it going forever.  And
when we fight to win, there’s nobody that can even come close to us. 

But I was talking to General Dan Caine, and we call him “Razin” Caine. 
And I was told it would take about four years to defeat ISIS, and he did
it in three weeks.  I said to him, “What do you think, General?  How
long will it take?”  “Sir, I think we should do it in less than four
weeks.  You’re going to have time leftover.”  And he did.  He did that. 
And we were told by the television generals it would take four years. 

So, we did it.  That’s when I went to Iraq.  I flew to Iraq and — late
at night — the dark of night, all the windows closed, all the lights off
in the plane, in Air Force One.  And we flew in, and it was pretty
amazing.  I’ll tell you, we were landing, and there were no lights.  No
lights on the plane.  “Sir, we have to turn off all lights.”  I said,
“You mean we spend $9 trillion, and we have to fly in on Air Force One
with the lights off?”  And I went up to the pilot and said hello.

And, by the way, these guys are like central casting.  These are the
best-looking human beings.  Everybody is, like, perfect.  (Laughter.) 
The most handsome people, the best-looking people you’ve ever seen, with
the flattops and the whole thing. 

And I was a little concerned because the lights are off, and everything
is off, and even the lights in where he was were down very dim — very,
very dim with all of the lights on the fancy dashboards of the plane of
Air Force One.

We’re getting a new Air Force One if they can ever finish the damn
thing.  (Laughter.)  We’re getting two of them, actually.  But we may
have to go a different route because it’s taking them a long time. 
We’re going to get military that’s going to start building.  We’re going
to get people to start building properly again in our country, because
they don’t build properly.  (Applause.)  This was Boeing.

But we’re — we’re up there, and I’m looking at these people.  And,
again, cent- — I say they look like Tom Cruise but better — (laughter) —
stronger, tougher.  And I like Tom Cruise, but these are better.  And I
said — I said, “Are we okay, Captain?”  “Yes, sir, we’re fine.”  But I’m
looking out.  I don’t see any lights, and we’re landing. And I’m — you
know, I’m used to that.  I like to sit with the pilots a lot, and I
respect the pilots greatly.

And we’re up there, and, you know, we have the computer — I call it the
computer voice, where it goes 1,000, 900, 800.  That’s feet — your feet
above ground.  So, that means you’re very low.  And I’m looking out, and
my eyes are pretty good, and I don’t see any lights.  And the computer
goes out.  It sounds like a — an intelligent individual.  It goes,
“1,000.”  We’re a thousand feet up.  That’s very — it’s a 10-story
building.  This is a big, big plane.  And then it goes, “900, 800,
700.”  I say, “Captain.”  (Clears throat.)  (Laughter.)  “Captain, we
don’t see any lights.”  I said, “Is everything” — “Yes, sir.  Everything
is fine, sir.  We’ll be landing in three minutes.”

     And then it goes, like, “600, 500.”  “Captain, are we okay?” 
(Laughter.)  And then it goes, “400, 300, 200.”  And I’m saying, “Man,
there’s nothing out there.”  (Laughter.) 

And then he goes boom.  Perfect landing, right on this thing.  There are
no lights on the runway.  There’s no n- — I don’t know how the hell they
do it, but I’m sure as hell glad we had somebody that knows how to fly. 
(Laughter.) 

But they didn’t want to have any lights because they didn’t want the
enemy — after spending, you know, years and trillions of dollars, we
have to land with Air Force One with no lights on the runway.  But they
were incredible people. 

And then I got out of the plane, and I actually asked my people — you
know, I said, “Excuse me, I was very brave sitting in that cockpit.  Am
I allowed to give myself the Congressional Medal of Honor?”  (Laughter
and applause.)  And they said, “I don’t think so, sir.”  I said, “Well,
I felt I was extremely brave.”  (Laughter.) 

But now here’s the problem with saying a story like that.  When you kid,
the press will say, “President Donald Trump wanted to give himself the
Congressional Medal of Honor.”  (Laughter.)   Headlines, you know? 
Headlines all over the fake news.  We call it the fake news, but we’re
all wise to them.

But it was something. 

And then I went down, and it was the same thing.  I’m standing on the
top, and I look down and there’s these handsome people.  Everybody is
like from a movie set.  Good-looking guys.  I get down the stairs, and
“What’s your name?”  “My name is Caine, sir.”  “What’s your first
name?”  “They call me ‘Razin.’”  I say, “Wait a minute.  Your name is
Razin Caine?  I love you.  I’ve been looking for you for five years. 
You are the grea-” — (laughter) — “This is what I want.” 

And there was a general next to him.  There was a colonel.  There was a
drill sergeant, a master sergeant.  They were all, like, people — I
could make a movie right now.  I’d have the best-looking people ever. 
And they were great. 

And then I went in, and “Sir, would you like to rest before the me-” —
“No, I don’t want to rest.  I don’t want to rest.  I’ve been resting on
the plane,” other than the last few moments, which were quite
harrowing.  (Laughter.)  And I said, “I don’t want to rest.”  He was
thinking about Biden in advance, you know?  Biden would have gone there;
he would have rested for days.  (Laughter.)  They — and then they
wouldn’t have had a meeting.  He’d just go home.  (Laughter.)

No, I said, “I don’t want to rest.  I don’t want to rest at all.  I want
to go.”

So, we went into this, like, bunker, and we had a lot of very good,
talented people.  And that’s when I asked him.  I said, “You know, I’m
hearing it’s going to take a long time.”  “No, that’s not right, sir. 
It’s not going to take a long time.  We’ll have it done in four weeks.” 
I said, “How can you say four weeks when, in Washington, they said four
years?”  He said, “It’s four weeks, sir.  We’ll hit them left.  We’ll
hit them right.  We’ll hit them up the center.  We’ll hit them
underground and overground.  We’ll knock the hell out of them, sir.” 

And I said, “Why is it that they said so long?”  He said, “Because they
wouldn’t let us fight, and we’re very far away.  They want us to fight
for this — from this airport.  We’re very, very far away, sir, and they
want us to fight here.  We have many substations out” — sub-airports,
they call them.  Remote airports, where they build them in the sand. 
“And we have many of them, and I’d use them all, sir, and I would hit
them so hard from so many different directions.”

I said, “Well, what do you think?”  He said, “You just let me know.” 
And I called him back, and I said, “Go ahead and do it.  Are you sure
you can do this, General?”  He said, “Yes, sir.”  And he did it,
actually, in three weeks.  It was over.  A hundred percent of people
that are really hurting the Middle East, hurting the world — and it was
done. 

And we have — I’m telling you, we have the greatest military in the
world, but you have to use the right people.  But there’s nothing like
what they were able to do in that case.  And in other cases, wherever I
gave them something, it was done incredibly well and very — and you know
many of the instances, because it’s been well reported.

But we’ve also required — and we ha- — so, we have a country that’s a
great country.  It’s a strong country, but it’s a country that’s just
now gaining its respect back to the levels that it should — should have
never lost.  We were being laughed at by the entire world, but we’re not
being laughed at anymore. 

But we’ve also required that all federal employees must once again show
up to work.  This is a new phenomenon, you know, since COVID. 
(Applause.)  Show up to work in person like the rest of us.  So, I mean,
it doesn’t work when you don’t show up. 

And I see companies now are all going back to it.  They’re all going
back.  It’s great.  I want some of the big business leaders saying, “We
absolutely are going back.”  You — you j- — you can’t work at home. 
They’re not working.  They’re playing tennis, they’re playing golf, or
they have other jobs, but they’re not working — or they’re certainly not
working hard.  You could never build a company or a country with that. 

So, we have a very strong policy.  And if they don’t show up to work,
they — they get fired. 

And we’re trying to make our government smaller but much stronger.  And
we have tremendous bureaucracy, but it’s happening.  A lot of people are
leaving and, in some cases, leaving with pretty good offers.  You know,
you’re paid seven or eight months and go out, find a job.  But some of
these people had jobs.  They were actually working for us, but they also
had other jobs.  And those people, in theory, they have problems.  I
don’t know if we’re going to do anything about that.  So, we have other
things to do, but they were working other jobs instead of working for
us.  So, they were staying home working, but they were working other
jobs, getting paid a lot of money, perhaps. 

We offered deferred resignation buyouts to all federal workers,
resulting in more than 75,000 bureaucrats voluntarily surrendering their
taxpayer-funded jobs.  A lot of them are leaving because they don’t want
to be caught having the second job, some are leaving because they didn’t
want to be in government any longer, and — and some are leaving because
they didn’t want to show up to work.  They wanted to work outside of an
office, and that’s never going to work for anybody, including
companies.  The companies ought to get smart. 

You watch these companies where they do that: They start going bad. 
Nobody knows — “what’s wrong with this company?”  Well, try getting the
people back into the office where they can be cohesive and together. 

In less than a single month, the Department of Government Efficiency has
already saved over 55- — this is just a short period of time — $55
billion, and we’re just getting started.  That’s nothing compared to the
numbers that you’re talking about, right?  (Applause.) 

We’re ending trillions of dollars in waste, and it’ll mean much lower
inflation; lower interest rates; lower payments on mortgages, credit
cards, car loans; and much higher stock markets.  I think the stock
market is going to be great.  In other words, we will rapidly grow our
economy by dramatically shrinking the federal government, and we have to
do it. 

I’m also taking fast action to end the radical left’s nation-wrecking
crusade against oil and natural gas.  Over the past four years, the
Biden administration cut the number of new oil leases and gas leases by
95 percent.  They slowed new pipeline. 

I mean, look at the — any one.  Dakota Access, they wanted that one
knocked out.  The Keystone Pipeline, they wanted that one knocked out. 
They ended the Keystone.  We got the Dakota Access done, but it wasn’t
easy after they tried to stop it.

They slowed new oil and gas pipeline construction to virtually a halt. 
They shut down 38 percent of active oil and gas rigs in the United
States. 

But they love the wind turbines.  They go round and round and round. 
And if the wind doesn’t blow, they got problems.  They kill all the
birds.  They ruin the sight lines.  They ruin the plains and the
beautiful areas of our country, including the oceans, the lakes. 

They closed more than 50 power plants, all causing energy prices to
skyrocket.  You saw that happen.  That’s what caused the inflation. 
It’s pretty easy. 

These policies were so destructive that despite draining nearly 40
percent of U.S. Strategic Petroleum Reserve meant for emergencies — it
was meant for emergencies.  It wasn’t meant for getting the price of
gasoline down so that you can win an election.  Didn’t work for winning
the election.  Actually, there’s so many people that are driving that
it’s a very small number.  It just had a very small effect.  But in the
meantime, it takes it down.  It’s at — now it’s at the lo- — we’ll fill
it up fast, but it’s at the lowest level. 

When we made the transition, it was at the lowest level in history ever
recorded.  It’s the lowest level.  Nobody’s ever seen it that way.  They
— they put it all out because they thought they could keep gasoline
prices down a little bit.  Just go past the election, and then after
that, they didn’t care.  And it didn’t work, because they didn’t get
elected.  I got elected.

But the price of gasoline still rose over 35 percent and, in some cases,
at some periods, it was 100 percent and 125 percent during certain
periods of time.

Under the Trump administration, we have implemented a very different
plan.  You probably heard of it.  It’s called drill, baby, drill, and
we’re doing a — (applause).

The world runs on low-cost energy, and energy-producing nations like us
have nothing to apologize for.  We have more energy than any other
nation in the world, and we’re going to use it.  And we’re going to use
it on AI plants. 

I was telling some of the people that came in that — you know, they’re
very inter- — everybody’s talking about AI.  I hope you’re right.  You
know, I don’t know.  Who knows?  (Laughter.)

But, Elon, are they right?  Are they right in going all i- — they are
all in for AI. 

But the problem is, to do it, just in our country, you need twice the
electricity just to open up and be the top of AI.  You need twice the
electricity that we have right now.  In the entire country, if you take
all of the electricity, you need more than twice.  You need twice.  You
need double what we have right now just to fuel this new industry that’s
growing.  I was amazed when I heard that number.

And they all said, “How can we do this?”  Because, you know, in China
and various other places, you can probably get it with the shake of a
hand, but in our country, you can’t. 

But now you can, because we’ve declared — I’m declaring a national
emergency in order to get fast approvals.  And we’re going to have — if
you build a plant, you’re able to build an electric-generating facility
right next to your plant, so you’ll be making your own.  You won’t have
to count on utilities.  You won’t have to count on an old grid that
could fail, could get hit by something — bad things or good things — but
you’re not going to have to — you’re not going to have to worry about
grids.  You’re not going to have — you’ll build your plant, and you’ll
build your — your — essentially, you become a utility, in a way.  You
build your own electricity.  If you want to build extra and put it out
and get paid for that, you’re going to be able to do that.  You could
put it back into the grid, but you’re going to be able to build with
your plant a generating facility.

And we’re going to get you Lee Zeldin, head of the environment — head of
Environmental — the Environmental group — various groups.  And we’ve got
them unified now, but we’re going to get you very fast approvals, and
they’ll be approved so fast your head will spin.  And we’re going to get
that whole industry started, and we’re going to be the head of it. 
We’re leading right now.  We have the greatest brain power.  We’re
leading right now, and I expect that we’re going to be leading by a
lot. 

But we’re going to get you the energy very, very quickly.  That would be
the one thing that everybody was concerned, “How do we have that much
electricity when Los Angeles has blackouts and brownouts right now, and
there’s a lack of electricity?”  But we’re going to get it at levels
never seen before. 

I ended the ridiculous Green New Scam, halting tens of billions of
dollars of wasteful deficit spending.  And I withdrew the United States
from the unfair, one-sided Paris Climate Accord. 

And I ended Joe Biden’s insane electric vehicle mandate, because it was
just insane.  I repealed the last — and, by the way, if you want to buy
an electric car, that’s great.  If you want to buy a gasoline-driven car
or a hybrid, it’s great.  Whatever the — whatever the thing happens to
be. 

I heard hydrogen is hot.  The problem is, when it’s not, you’re in deep
trouble.  Because when that sucker blows up, they don’t find the body. 
(Laughter.)  So, that’s one that I said, “You know what?  Let’s take a
pass on that one.”  They said it’s good, but when it’s bad, it’s really
bad.  You find the bodies on trees — on the side of a tree. 
(Laughter.)  I said, “I think we’ll pass on that one.  Right?  We’re not
going to want that one.”  But you never know.  Maybe someday it’ll be
good.  But it doesn’t sound like it’s off to a good start. 

I repealed the last administration’s very destructive natural gas export
ban, and, last week, we approved our first new liquefied natural gas
export license, and we have literally hundreds of people that want to
export. 

I recently met with the Japanese prime minister, Ishiba, to discuss
large increases in American oil and gas exports.  They want it so
badly.  They said, “We went to the Biden administration, and they
wouldn’t sell it.  They wouldn’t sell it.”  Nobody knows why.  Biden
didn’t know why either.  They asked him.  “I don’t know.”  (Laughter.) 
“He wanted — they did?  Oh, I didn’t know that.” 

But we’re going to sell it.  And the new project in Alaska is going to
feed all of Asia.  We’re going to take care of all of Asia.  We have so
much oil and gas, like very few people — like very few countries have —
like, really, actually, no country has. 

I also met with Prime Minister Modi of India, who wants to greatly
expand India’s purchase of American energy. 

And my administration has also launched the most aggressive deregulation
program of any nation in history.  Under my executive order, for every 1
new regulation added, 10 old regulations have to be eliminated. 
(Applause.)

And, you know, in our first term, which was actually an incredible
success — we had the greatest economy in history until COVID, and even
after that, we did great.  The stock market was higher.  If you think of
it, it was higher after the fact — after we went through that whole
thing, it was higher than it was just prior to COVID coming in, which is
a pretty amazing thing. 

But we did a great job on that, but it was a terrible thing for the
world.  The whole world suffered.  It suffered terribly, including
China, including other countries.  It just was a terrible period of
time. 

But despite that, we did well.  But we had the greatest economy in the
history of our country, and I think this time we’re going to do even
better.  We had — we were artificially hurt by COVID.  We had to focus
on that instead of focusing on — but just prior to COVID coming in,
there’s never been anything like what we did, what we achieved.  And
even after, we did very well con- — and especially considering what all
of us had to do with COVID.  Some nations were hit so badly, it was — it
was just unbelievable what happened to them. 

As part of our effort, I’ve signed executive orders to keep the United
States at the forefront of artificial intelligence and to end Joe
Biden’s war on Bitcoin and crypto.  We ended that war totally.  That war
is over.  They were very hostile toward them until the very end, just
because there are so many people on Bitcoin and crypto that — just
before the end, the SEC came out, and they were being very nice.  I was
so nice to people, because so many people were being indicted for no
reason whatsoever — very political group of people.  That’s all they did
was they liked indicting people. 

But they were being indicted, and many of those indictments were dropped
just before the election because they said, “Wait a minute.  There’s 100
million, 125 million people using this,” and they didn’t want to have,
you know, all these people being — voting against.  But by the time they
did that, it was too late.  We had that vote entirely, I think.  I think
anybody would — smart that believed in that, and there were a lot of
people believing it — anybody that was smart voted for Trump.

And they pulled the indictments.  And I see people that were indicted. 
I said, “I saved your life.  I saved your life.”  Because if they
thought that — they actually thought that I was doing — they said, “Why
is Trump doing it?  Is he doing it for political reasons?”  I don’t do
anything for political reasons.  I do what’s right.  I do — I want to be
on the forefront of every industry.  (Applause.) 

So, I’ll be working with the Republican Congress to pass the largest tax
cuts in American history.  And that includes, obviously — (applause) —
yeah.  That includes we have to extend the Trump tax cuts, which were,
until now, the largest. 

We’re going to dramatically cut taxes for families and for workers and
for companies, including no tax on tips and hopefully no tax on Social
Security and no tax on overtime.  And that overtime one is a sleeper,
because I think a lot of people are going to be spurred on to do a lot
of extra work.  When they hear that, it’s — a lot of companies really
like it and a lot of people really like it. 

The new Trump tax cuts will also include 100 percent expensing for new
factory construction in the United States and anything else that you’re
going to buy with capital.  If you buy something — if you buy something
that is going to be good for our country, we’re going to let you expense
it — one-year expense.  (Applause.)  And I did that the first time, and
everybody was saying, “Can you go back to that?”  Now you still get, I
guess, 40 percent or whatever, but it, you know, pares down.  But we’re
going to bring that right up to the — to the top level.  I think that
had a lot to do with the success that I had during my first term. 

And we’ll substantially cut taxes for all domestic producers of oil and
gas and just about everything else that they produce. 

In my first term, I brought the business tax down from around 40 percent
to 21 percent, which everybody said was an impossible thing to do.  I
cut it from 40 or — it actually — with state and city, it was much
higher than 40, but I got it down to 21 percent.  And now I’m bringing
it down to a goal of 15 percent, but only if you make your product in
America.  In other words, you’re going to be at 21 percent, but if you
make your product in America, you’re going to go from 21 to 15.  If you
don’t, you’re going to pay 21 percent, which is still lower than
anything.  (Applause.) 

So, guys like Elon are going to come and make his great cars in the
United States.  There — a lot of — a lot of people will.  A lot of
people are calling.  A lot of car companies are calling.  They called me
— three of them.  Three of the majors, they called, and they said,
“We’re looking all over the place.  We want to be there.”

I’m going to be announcing tariffs on cars and semiconductors and chips
and pharmaceuticals — drugs and pharmaceuticals and lumber, probably,
and some other things over the next month or sooner, and it’s going to
have a big impact on America.  We’re bringing our businesses back. 

If they don’t make their product in America, then they — very simply,
they have to pay a tariff.  But if they do make their product in
America, they ha- — they don’t have to pay any tariff, which will bring
— it’s all going to bring trillions of dollars into our Treasury, or
it’s going to mean that there won’t be any taxes because we won’t have a
fair base.  If they don’t have it, we don’t have it.  If they don’t pay
— if they don’t charge us, we don’t charge them.  It’s pretty simple. 

The Republican Party is, once again, the party of common sense.  We’re a
party of common sense.  We want strong borders.  We don’t want men
playing in women’s sports.  We don’t want to have transgender for
everybody.  We’re the party of common sense.  That’s how we won the
election in such a big manner. 

We’ll no longer allow other countries to ransack and plunder our
nation.  That’s why I’ve announced that we will soon begin imposing
reciprocal tariffs on any country that engages in unfair and unequal
trading practices.  If they tariff us, as I said, we will tariff them at
the exact same rate.  So, if a certain country — because some of these
countries, even countries that I’ve already mentioned, are extremely
aggressive with tariffs.  Nobody knows that. 

The European Union, they have a VAT tax that’s devastating.  It’s very
tough for people on the outside.  Hard to sell cars.  Really impossible
to sell them, because they also have nonmonetary tariffs that are very,
very tough.  But if you take a look at that, it’s a very unfair
situation.  And the VAT tax is similar to the tariff.

Around the world, I’m moving quickly to end wars, settle conflicts, and
restore the planet to peace.  I want peace, and I don’t want to see
these — everybody being killed.  And you take a look at the death in the
Middle East and the death that’s taking place between Russia and Ukraine
that’s been going on, and we’re going to end it. 

There’s no profit for anyone in having World War III, and you’re not so
far away from it.  I’ll tell you right now, you’re not so far away.  If
we would have had this administration for another year, you would have
been in World War III, and now it’s not going to happen.

In the Middle East, I’ve restored my policy of maximum pressure on Iran,
designed to — to bring peace.  (Applause.)  And we’ve designated the
Houthis a terrorist organization.  They’re, you know, destroying
shipping lanes all over the place.  They’re making it very hard for
people to get their product delivered.  They’re making it very
difficult.  But we’ll take care of that situation.

And we’ve secured a ceasefire in Gaza, and we’re bringing in the
hostages, and we’re bringing them home to their families.  Some of them
are in pretty bad shape, I have to tell you. 

To end the horrible war in Ukraine, I have spoken with President Putin
and President Zelenskyy, and our teams began negotiations this week in
Saudi Arabia.  I want to thank Saudi Arabia for that.  That was so
great.  (Applause.)  Yeah. 

And I want to thank, in particular — I mean, we have so many of the
people — Yasir, Mohammed, all the people — but — but, in particular, we
have to thank Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman for hosting these
historic talks — (applause) — and talks that went very, very well. 

Steve was there — Steve Witkoff was there, and Michael was there —
Michael Waltz — and others.  And they really went well.  It’s a big —
it’s a big step.  We’ve got to get that war over with. 

You have to see the people that are dying.  I look at the pictures, the
— the satellite pictures of the field.  It’s a level field, and it looks
like a modern-day version of Gettysburg, and you know what that means. 
It is just carnage.  It’s horrible. 

And, you know, it’s not American soldiers.  It’s not even soldiers from
the Middle East, in the case of Ukraine-Russia, but it’s people.  It’s
young people from Russia and Ukraine, mostly, that are just being
decimated.  It’s flat fields, and a bullet goes, and a bullet only stops
when it hits somebody.  And the level of people being killed in that
battle — soldiers, young soldiers — in some cases, old soldiers, because
they’re running out of people; they’re running out of soldiers, one
case. 

But think of it, a modestly successful comedian, President Zelenskyy,
talked the United States of America into spending $350 billion to go
into a war that basically couldn’t be won, that never had to start, and
never would have started if I was president — not even a chance.  And it
didn’t start for four years.  Never would have started. 

But a war that he, without the U.S. and Trump, will never be able to
settle.  They’ll never settle that war without our involvement.  That’s
why they did such a great job this weekend.  That’s why Saudi Arabia did
such a great job this weekend in hosting.

The United States has spent $200 billion more than Europe, and Europe’s
money is guaranteed.  They get their money back.  It’s a form of a
loan.  Nobody knows that.  I know that.  I said, “Why isn’t somebody
saying, you know, we do it the same way?”  And we spent much more
money.  We have to equalize. 

But while the United States gets nothing back — so, they get their money
back.  It’s a loan.  We just give our money. 

And we had a deal based on rare earth and things, but they broke that
deal.  But we — they broke it two days ago.  We had a deal, because I
said, “We’re spending $350 billion, and Europe gets their money back in
the form of a loan and we don’t.  We’re just giving the money hand over
fist.”  That’s the Biden administration for you.  But they’re no longer
dealing with the same United States as they were dealing with a few
months ago.  Why didn’t crooked Joe Biden demand equalization? 

And that this war is far more important to Europe than it is to us, and
that there’s a very big, beautiful ocean as separation.  This is — you
know, we’re helping Europe.  We’re trying to help Europe. 

On top of this, Zelenskyy admits that half of the money that we sent
them is missing.  They don’t know where the money is.  He said, “Well,
we don’t know where half of it is.”  That’s great.  Wonderful. 
(Laughter.)

He refuses to have elections.  He’s low in the real Ukrainian polls.  I
mean, how can you be high with every city is being demolished?  It’s
hard to be high.  Somebody said, “Oh, no, his polls are good.”  Give me
a break.  (Laughter.)  Every city is being demolished.  They look like a
demolition site, every single one of them. 

And the only thing he was really good at was playing Joe Biden like a
fiddle.  He played him like a fiddle.  That’s an expression we use,
Yasir, to say that he’s pretty easy.  Pretty easy.  (Laughter.)

A dictator without elections, Zelenskyy better move fast or he’s not
going to have a country left.  Got to move.  Got to move fast, because
that war is going in the wrong direction. 

In the meantime, we’re successfully negotiating an end to the war with
Russia — something all admit that only Trump is going to be able to do
and the Trump administration.  We’re going to be able to do it.  I think
Putin even admitted that.

Biden never tried.  Europe has failed to bring peace.  And Zelenskyy
probably wants to — maybe he wants to keep the gravy train going.  I
don’t know what’s the problem, but he hasn’t been able to — he’s very
upset that he wasn’t invited — he could have come if he wanted to — but
that he wasn’t invited to Saudi Arabia.  But he’s been working for three
years.  There’s never been even meetings or phone calls to stop this
war. 

It’s a horrible thing.  I figure Russia has lost 900,000 soldiers.  I
think that Ukraine has lost probably 700,000, and it’s a terrible
thing.  You’ll see body parts — bodies and body parts all over the
field.  All over.  We see them through — very accurately through
satellites. 

I love Ukraine, but Zelenskyy has done a terrible job.  His country is
shattered, and millions and millions of people have unnecessarily died. 
And you can’t bring a war to an end if you don’t talk to both sides. 
You got to talk.  They haven’t been talking for three years. 

So, we hope to see a ceasefire soon and to reestablish stability in
Europe and the Middle East.  (Applause.)

But as I — thank you very much.  And as I’ve said before, it’s my hope
that my greatest legacy will be as a peacemaker and a unifier.  That
would be a great legacy.  (Applause.)

So, in conclusion, the golden age of America is upon us, and I’m
inviting everyone here today and every citizen across our land to take
part in the most extraordinary period of peace, prosperity, growth,
innovation, wealth creation, and expansion the world has ever seen. 

We’re on our way.  I mean, everyone is talking about us.  Three weeks. 
We’re in there for a couple of days more than three weeks, and everyone
is talking about it.  You have to see the crowds of people outside. 
It’s pretty amazing what’s happening. 

We’re on the verge of soaring markets, surging incomes, booming
production, groundbreaking technologies, thrilling discoveries, and a
quantum leap in the quality of life.  Absolutely, a quantum leap. 

One day very soon, our country will have the greatest economy in the
history of the world, because we once again have a president who puts
America first.  And we put America first, and your country should put
your country first, but in the end, we want America first.  And when
it’s all beautiful, which it’s going to be pretty soon, we want to help
other countries and you want to help other countries. 

But, you know, I tell your leaders — and some of the leaders are in this
room right now — you got to put your country first.  Whether it’s Saudi
Arabia, whether it’s something else, you’re going to put your country
first, but we’re going to have plenty left over to help others also. 

As long as you invest in America, build in America, and hire in America,
that means that I’m fighting for you.  I am fighting very hard for you.

Together, we’re going to make the United States of America bigger,
better, bolder, richer, and greater than ever before.  It’s going to be
stronger than ever before.  We’re going to be a peacemaker and a
peacekeeper.  We’re going to stop people from these stupid, never-ending
wars.  We’re not going to partake in them ourselves, but we’ll be
stronger and more powerful than anybody by far.  And if it ever came to
war, there is nobody that will be able to come close to us, but we don’t
think that’s going to ever happen. 

So, I want to thank you all very much.  It’s a great honor to be here. 

And I think somebody said they’re going to ask questions, and I didn’t
say, “Gee, what are the questions,” like Biden does.  I say, “Just ask. 
It doesn’t matter.”  You ask a question, and I give an answer. 

So, I think, Richard, you’re going to come up and you’re going to give
me some questions. 

Thank you very much.  (Applause.)

MR. ATTIAS:  Thank you.  Thank you very much, Mr. President.  Please, a
round of applause for the president of United States of America.  Thank
you.  (Applause.)

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.

MR. ATTIAS:  Mr. President, thank you for accepting to take a few
questions.  Twenty years ago, I don’t know if you will remember, we were
under the same roof in Orlando, and you were delivering an amazing
speech in front of 3,000 sales rep, giving them the best advice to be
successful.  So, what is the best piece of advice that you have ever
received?

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, I think it was watching my father.  You know, my
father was a very hard worker, and he just worked hard and he was very
smart.  He had good genetics.  His brother was the longest-serving
professor in the history of MIT, Dr. John Trump.  And my father was
every bit as smart, but my father was — had to work. 

He was older, and he put his brother through school.  In fact, he once
said, “Boy, I put him through so much school.”  He had three different
degrees, and they asked him to stay on at MIT.  But my father was the
same ilk. 

And I noticed that my father was a happy man, and what he did is he
worked.  He just worked all the time.  He worked, worked, worked, and he
loved it. 

And, really, I think the best piece of advice I got from that is you
have to love what you do, and if you love what you do, you’re going to
have a happy life.  If you don’t — I mean, I see so many people, they’re
in businesses that they don’t want to be in.  They’re in businesses
that, you know, they’re bored in or they’re not good at, they don’t have
a natural ability at it.  There is such a thing as natural ability,
whether it’s sports or acting or anything else.  I mean, some people
have an ability for something.  Try and find that ability.

But you have to love what you do.  If you love what you do, you’re going
to be — at least you have a good chance of being successful.

MR. ATTIAS:  Mr. President, it’s almost time for — (applause) — for an
early dinner.  So, if you are throwing a dinner party, and you can
invite three fascinating guests, living or dead, who would you bring? 

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, they’re all sitting right in the front row. 
(Laughter and applause.)  Yasir, are you ready? Mohammed, are you
ready?  Steve Witkoff. 

And we have Mr. — the most important person, at least until the World
Cup is over, is here.  Gianni, stand up.  He gave the United States the
World Cup.  (Applause.)  Gianni, thank you very mu- — I didn’t know you
were here.  That’s very good.  He’s the king of soccer.  That’s not
bad.  And you’ve done a fantastic job.

You know, but it’s very interesting, when I was president, I got the
World Cup and I got all of the — you know, we have the 250 anniversary,
so that fell in this administration.  That’s a big deal: 250 years.  But
we have all of these things happening, and I also got the Olympics. 

And I was called by the mayor of Los Angeles, “Sir, would you call up
the Olympic Committee because” — it was at that time — “President Obama
will not take their phone call.  And we’re going to get the Olympics in
Los Angeles.” 

And, by the way, they’ve recommitted to Los Angeles at a level that —
you know, I was very worried about that.  And they’ve — the opposite. 
You know, somebody could have said, “Well, we’re going to do it
someplace else until” — they have actually recommitted.  They’re going
to make it bigger and better than ever.  So, I want to let you know
that.  (Applause.)

But I got — I had the Olympics.  So, I got the Olympics.  I got the
World Cup, and I said — and the 250, but that one I didn’t get.  But it
was there.  It was in this term. 

And I ran an election, and we did fantastic in 2016.  We did much better
— millions and millions — tens of millions, but millions and millions of
votes better.  And bad things happened, and I didn’t get that one. 

And I said, “You know” — when I originally signed the Olympics, I said,
“I won’t be able to even be president, and I got the Olympics,” because
if I didn’t — when I spoke with the people — the organizing committee
and the people in different parts of the world — they asked me to do it
because the president wouldn’t do it.  I was president-elect, and I gave
them a talk.  I couldn’t get them off the phone.  They were starving for
love.  And the bottom line: They gave us the Olympics. 

And I said, “You know, isn’t it sad I won’t be president?”  Then we had
the election result, and now I’m president for the Olympics and for the
World Cup.  (Applause.)  So, I’m very happy about that, Gianni.  Thank
you very much. 

Thank you, G- — (laughs) — I’ll be there.  I promise, I’ll be there.

MR. ATTIAS:  And, by the way, Mr. President, backstage, you have a gift
from Gianni.  He gave us the first ball with your name —

THE PRESIDENT:  Ooh —

MR. ATTIAS:  — which will be played for the cup — World Cup in America.

THE PRESIDENT:  That’s great.  It’s going to be great.  Thank you,
Gianni, very much.  (Applause.)

MR. ATTIAS:  I doubt that any day you will take a sabbatical year, but
if you could take a sabbatical year, Mr.  President, what unconventional
thing would you do?

THE PRESIDENT:  What was the word?

MR. ATTIAS:  Sabbatical.  You don’t work for one year.

THE PRESIDENT:  Oh, sabbatical.  I thought — thought you said
“sabbath.”  (Laughter.)  That’s a big difference.  It’s almost the
opposite, when you think about it.  Right?  (Laughter.)

I think what I’d do is — look, what I’m doing now is the most exciting
job in the world.  It’s a hard job, not an easy job.  It’s a nasty job. 
It could be a lot easier with — you know, I — I think that the — the
news media has to straighten themselves out, because people are getting
it.  You know, they — they’re losing tremendous popularity, and they’ve
lost their prestige and they’ve lost their credibility.  And I think
it’s a very important thing, the news media, but I think they have to
straighten themselves out, because the people are going around them.

Now, they have so many different things with — like Elon with X, which
was a big — a big thing.  And we have Truth, which has been fantastic. 
And we have so many other things that you don’t really need traditional.

But I — I will tell you that there is just nothing I could do to enjoy
my life, whether it’s that or anything else that you’d ask, because this
is the ultimate.  I mean, I had to make a big decision, and it was a
very risky decision, because if I would have lost, my life would have
been a much different life.  It would have been a very nasty life.  They
were going after me at levels that nobody has ever seen before — not
Andrew Jackson, not Abraham Lincoln. 

You know, the historians say that the president that was treated the
worst by far by the media and overall was Andrew Jackson.  In fact, his
wife died of heartbreak.  They were treated really rough.  And Abraham
Lincoln was second, but he had a civil war.  You know, you can
understand that. 

But nobody was treated like me.  Nobody.  And I will tell you, you learn
a lot about yourself.  But there’s nothing I’d rather do. 

I had to make a decision: Do I do this?  Because if I lost, it would
have been very, very bad.  It was dangerous, actually.  Very dangerous
in so many different ways. 

And I decided to do it.  And I said, “I have to win, because if I don’t”
— when I spoke to a friend of mine the other night, he said, “You know,
if you lost, it would have been very” — it was actually Sean Hannity,
just before we did the interview last night.  He said, “Boy, if you
would have lost, it would have — you would have had a tough life.  You
would have had a very tough life.” 

So, it was — there was a certain amount of courage involved in this
decision to run.  And it’s a great honor to win by this much — to win
all seven swing states, the popular vote. 

Popular vote doesn’t get won that much by Republicans, for whatever
reason.  I think that’s changing, because, again, we’re the party of
common sense and they’re the party of some real bad things. 

And I think they’ll change.  I think they have to change.  It would be
wonderful.  I’m going to be having lunch with some of the Democrats next
week, and it would be wonderful if we could work together.  I think
working together would be great.  But they have to change.  You can’t
get elected on the programs that they want, and that’s one of — that’s
really what America wants to see.

So, there’s nothing I’d rather do than what I’m doing right now. 
(Applause.)

MR. ATTIAS:  When we started this conference — Mr. President, when we
started this conference, Yasir and I, His Royal Highness Crown Prince
told us, “I want that to be the place where people will come to
understand where to invest in terms of geographies and sector.”  So,
what is the best investment you have made in your personal growth, Mr.
President?

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, I was involved in real estate from, you know, most
of my life and was — you know, guys like Witkoff will tell you I was
really good at it and I was successful at it — very successful at it. 
I’ve been involved in things prior to being president, but during the
four years — during the last four years, you know, I followed sort of
the trends, and I’ve made a lot of money with following some of these
trends. 

And, you know, it’s — again, it’s something that you do.  You — it’s — I
really believe that some people have instinct.  I think I’ve always had
an instinct for making money.  I make money.

And I went into show business.  I had one of the most successful shows
on television.  I wrote books, and they were all bestsellers.  Virtually
every book a bes- — was a big bestseller, some really big bestsellers. 

And so, I don’t know, it’s — whatever I do, I just want to make it
successful.  It’s very important to me. 

There are many ways to make money.  You can be in many different fields,
and a lot of them is being in the right country.  You know, if you’re in
a certain country — our country was actually getting very bad — a very
dangerous place, actually.  Bad things were happening.  But if you’re in
a certain country, you have a chance to do well.  And no matter how good
you are, if you were born into the wrong country, you’re not going to
make money. 

Now, you can do other things.  You can attain power, I guess.  Maybe
it’s the wrong kind of power, but it’s power.  But being in the right
country, where you have the right incentives and, you know,
entrepreneurship, et cetera.

And America has always been sort of at the top — or one of the top, but
always pretty much at the top.  But it was losing that — it was losing
that position and, I think, losing it rapidly.

This last administration — look, I don’t want to be — I wish I could say
I — I wouldn’t have run if — if I thought Biden was doing a good job, if
I thought they were — I wouldn’t have run, because, as I said, it was
very dangerous to run in a lot of ways.  In fact, my ear will show that
when you look at it closely.  My ear — I have that throbbing feeling
every once in a while.  But it was dangerous in a lot of different
ways.  But he was so bad that I had no choice but to do it. 

If I thought he was doing a great job, I wouldn’t have run, and I would
be very happy.  I actually wanted him to do a good job.  I was saying,
“Do this.  Do that.”  I’m telling them do things.  They should have done
what I said.  And — but I would have been — I would have been very happy
not to have run and, frankly, to have seen somebody do a good job.  But
our country was going to hell, and I really sort of had to run.

MR. ATTIAS:  If you were a historical ruler, would you prefer to rule
during war or peace?

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, I — I’d — I want to be, again, a peacemaker and I
want to keep us out of war.  But sometimes, to do that, you have to have
a very strong country.  You have to have a very strong military.  And as
I said, we have a much stronger military than anyone would know. 

We have the best equipment, and I bought a lot of it.  I rebuilt our
military in the first four years.  I rebuilt it.  We gave a lot of it
away to Afghanistan, to the Taliban, stupidly — but that’s a very small
amount, relative.  It was billions and billions, but it’s still a very
small amount relatively to what we built.  But I rebuilt — largely
rebuilt our military. 

Now I’m going to have to do it again, because so much has been given
away, so much has been treated so badly.

And — but to keep peace, you really have to — I have a thing: strength
through — and I mean it, you really have it.  You have strength, and you
need the strength, but it’s really peace through strength, because
without the strength, it’s going to be very hard to have peace because
you’re going to be taken over, bad things are going to happen.  So, you
really want to have peace through strength, and that’s where I’ve done
it.

Having strength, having power, in that sense, to protect yourself and
your people is a very important thing.  Hopefully, you don’t have to use
that power. 

I will tell you, I was dealing with President Putin very successfully on
denuclearization.  We were talking about it very seriously, and then
COVID came and lots of things came.  And we had also talked to China
about it. 

Now, Russia and us have the biggest nuclear by far.  China is not close,
but they will be close.  In three or four years or five years, they’ll
be equal.  But we were going to talk to China, and I spoke to President
Xi about it very successfully.  I think we were going to denuclearize
it.  We were — had to get the smaller nuclear powers, of which there are
four — three, maybe, but four probably — to do something.  We would have
been able to do that.  But I was having very strong talks with President
Putin about denuclearization. 

And, you know, if you’re president, you get presentations about what
we’re building; what we’re having; the power of weapons; the power of
many things besides weapons, per se. 

When I saw the power of nuclear weapons — and we can never let that
happen.  If that happens, the ball game will be — the world will be
destroyed.  The power is so enormous.  You look at Hiroshima, you look
at Nagasaki — multiply that times 500 times, and the world would be
destroyed. 

So, you want somebody as your president or you want somebody as your
leader that understands that.  We just can’t let that happen. 

We can’t let other countries get nuclear weapons — not only Iran.  Iran
is a good example, and maybe the one that people think about, but we
can’t let that happen. 

The power of weaponry today is so enormous that the world — the world
would disintegrate.  So, we can’t let it happen.

MR. ATTIAS:  Mr. President, if you had to describe United States of
America in just three words, what would they be?

THE PRESIDENT:  In three words?

MR. ATTIAS:  Three words.

THE PRESIDENT:  Love, respect, and strength.  (Applause.)

That’s a tough question.  That might be my best answer, Yasir.  That’s —
that reminds me of high school, that one.  But that may have been the
toughest question, actually. 

Do you think Joe Biden could have done that?  I don’t think so. 
(Laughter.)  I don’t think so.

MR. ATTIAS:  We’re almost at the end, Mr. President.  But talking about
United States of America, what is one cultural habit in the Uni- — in
the U.S. business that the rest of the world could learn from?  What is
the best practice that (inaudible).

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, I think we love our families, but I think a lot of
the world loves their families, you know?

I was speaking to the head of Mexico, because I complain constantly
about people pouring in.  Now our border is the strongest border we’ve
ever had.  We’ve gone from the worst border ever in history to the
strongest border.  But I was speaking to the president of Mexico — a
very wonderful woman, actually — and I said — we were talking about
drugs — “You can’t let people come through your country and come into
the country.”  You know, I was not that nice, but they understood what I
was saying. 

And she said something that really got me.  She said — I said, “Are you
a — you’re not a big drug-taking nation?”  And she said, “No, we are not
a consumer.”  And I said, “A consumer.  What a — you know, an
interesting word.  ‘We’re not a consumer nation.  We’re not a consumer
of drugs.’”  I said, “What an interesting — and why — why is that?”  He
said — she said, “Well, we have very strong family values.”  I said,
“But we do too.  We do too.”  We have very strong — our families are
devastated by what’s happening with fentanyl.

And China will not be doing — we’re going to make a deal with China. 
We’re not letting that happen anymore.  And I had a deal — by the way,
before I left, I had a deal with President Xi where they were going to
give the maximum penalty to anybody making fentanyl and sending it into
the United States, and their maximum penalty is the death penalty.  And
it would have stopped.  But when the election turned out to be a rigged
election — but that’s okay — when election turned out to be — it was an
election that shouldn’t have happened. 

All the — all the things that happened — I give you an example: We
wouldn’t have had October 7th Israel attack.  We wouldn’t have had
Ukraine and Russia fighting.  We wouldn’t have had inflation.  We
wouldn’t have had all of these things that, you know, happened. 

But in speaking with her — she said about family values —  I said,
“Well, you’re not really saying anything there, because we have great
families too.  We have great family values.”  She said, “Plus, we
advertise a lot.”  I said, “Ooh.  You mean you advertise about how bad
drugs are?”  “Yes, we do.  We spend a lot of money on advertising.”  And
I said, “Unbelievable.” 

That was such a great conversation, because we’re going to spend
hundreds of millions of dollars advertising how bad drugs are so that
kids don’t use them — that they chew up your brain; they destroy your
teeth, your skin, your everything.  (Applause.)

And I thanked her for that.  You know, I — I make so many calls, and I
never learn anything from anybody.  I know everything, and I never
learned anything from anybody.  (Laughter.)  And I spoke to this woman —
as soon as she said it — she didn’t have to say exactly what — I said,
“Exactly.  What a great idea.” 

And I think we’re going to have a — and I saw pieces of it.  We’re going
to go in with $100 million and then another $100 million initially.  But
I saw some of the ads, and they are really violent.  I said, “You have
to make them strong.”  Your skin practically comes off after a period of
time.  You lose your hearing.  You — you lose your teeth.  You lose — I
mean, you — it — it is terrible, and we show this happening to people. 

And I think we’re going to — you know, we — we did very well with — we
had blue-ribbon committees, headed up by the first lady of the United
States and a lot of other people that — you know, they have no idea the
viciousness of these cartels and these people.  And they’re smarts.  I
mean, they’re very smart, tough people — making a fortune, by the way —
an absolute fortune. 

But we got it down 18 percent, which was a record.  But 18 percent is
not great, when you think about it.  I think we could get it down 50 or
55 or maybe even 60 percent with advertising. 

So, she really gave me something.  I — I was going to call her and tell
her that she did, but now I don’t have to call her because she’s going
to be seeing this right now.  (Laughter.)

So, to the president of Mexico: Thank you very much.  I appreciate it.

But we’re going to do a great advertising campaign saying how bad it is,
how drugs are so bad for you.  (Applause.)

MR. ATTIAS:  My last question, Mr. President.  You have mentioned
briefly in your speech about the legacy.  What would you like your
legacy to be, if you can tell us more about it?

THE PRESIDENT:  That I came into a country that was great but is in
trouble, and I made America great again, and I got it out of trouble. 
And people respect America now.  And we were a country of peace, and we
brought peace to the rest of the world.  (Applause.)

MR. ATTIAS:  Thank you.  Thank you very much, Mr. President. 
(Applause.)

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, everybody.  Thank you.  (Applause.)

                         END                    6:54 P.M. EST
