---
date: '2025-02-13'
modified_time: 2025-02-14 10:54:45-05:00
published_time: 2025-02-13 10:53:59-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/remarks/2025/02/remarks-by-president-trump-and-secretary-of-the-department-of-health-and-human-services-robert-f-kennedy-jr-during-swearing-in-ceremony/
tags: remarks
title: Remarks by President Trump and Secretary of the Department of Health and Human
  Services Robert F. Kennedy, Jr., During Swearing-In Ceremony
---
 
THE WHITE HOUSE

Office of Communications

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

REMARKS BY PRESIDENT TRUMP AND SECRETARY OF THE DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND
HUMAN SERVICES ROBERT F. KENNEDY, JR., DURING SWEARING-IN CEREMONY

Oval Office  
  
(February 13, 2025)

2:45 P.M. EST

     THE PRESIDENT:  Good.  Thank you very much.  And thank you all for
being here on this very exciting — this is a very exciting day for — we
just had a big tariff meeting — reciprocal tariffs.  Should have been
done 40 years ago.  It wasn’t, but it is now.  It was big moment,
actually, and this is a tremendous moment right now. 

And it’s going to be a real honor for me to introduce Robert F. Kennedy,
Jr., who’ll take the oath of office and officially become our secretary
of Health and Human Services, just as I promised last year.

Bobby is going to lead a great national mission to make America healthy
again, and he’s going to do it.  I think he’s going to do things that
will really make us very proud of this day.

Like his father, Senator Robert F. Kennedy, and his uncle, President
John F. Kennedy, Bobby has devoted much of his life to serving his
fellow Americans.  In his campaign for president — and he was a very
tough competitor.  I did not like it at all.  (Laughter.)  I said,
“Let’s get him on my side.”  (Laughter.)

But in his campaign for president in 2024, Bobby brought together a
coalition of supporters across party lines, and he really worked very
hard, and he had tremendous support, unbelievable support.  And I think
a lot of that support came my way when we decided to do a little
merger. 

And it was really great.  And it was very loyal — very loyal, incredible
people.  They believe in him so strongly because he’s a fierce advocate
for the health of our children and for the values of free speech,
democracy, and peace.

And people are going to be very impressed.  I have no doubt.  I’ve known
him a long time.  He’s been a friend of mine a long time. 

Perhaps most importantly, though, Bobby created a nationwide movement
made up of millions and millions of mothers and fathers and young people
and concerned citizen of every background who want to end this — this
horrible, chronic disease crisis that exists in America. 

He’s absolutely committed to getting dangerous chemicals out of our
environment and out of our food supply and getting the American people
the facts and the answers that we deserve after years in which our
public health system has squandered the trust of our citizens.  And they
really have.  They don’t trust us.  They don’t trust anybody, frankly. 
They’ve gone through hell. 

There’s no better person to lead our campaign of historic reforms and
restore faith in American health care, and Bobby is going to do it. 

The United States spends more money in health than any other country on
Earth, but we’re growing sicker every year.  We’re not as healthy as
countries that spend just a fraction of what we spend.  So, there’s
something wrong.  He’s going to figure it out. 

In recent decades, we’ve seen staggering increases in cancer rates
across all age demographics, including more than 40 percent increase in
childhood cancer since 1975 — who can believe that? — and an explosion
in other chronic childhood illnesses. 

Not long ago, 1 in 10,000 people — children had autism.  Now it’s 1 in
36.  Think of that, 1 in 10,000 — 1 in 10,000, and now it’s 1 in 36. 
Who can believe that?  There’s something wrong.  There’s something
wrong, and I think it’s something that can be found out.

In 2022, more than 40 percent of children had at least one chronic
health condition, and today, nearly 80 percent of young adults do not
qualify for military service, in large part for health reasons.  Think
of that, 80 percent.  Something is wrong, and that’s why, immediately
after Bobby is sworn in, I will be signing an executive order
establishing the president’s commission to make America healthy again. 
We have some great people on that commission.

Chaired by our new secretary, this groundbreaking commission will be
charged with investigating what is causing the decades-long increase in
chronic illness, reporting its findings, and delivering an action plan
to the American people.  And it’s going to be a plan that people are
really waiting to hear. 

Bobby, I want to thank you.  You’ve gone through a lot.  It’s taken
great courage.  You’ve been amazing, actually.  I’d call him, I’d say,
“You’re going to be okay.”  And he said, “I know.  I really do.” 

He’s really been supported, amazingly, by Cheryl and his family.  And it
was a very tough — it was a very nasty group of people that were after
him, but he was tougher, and he was smarter than they are, and that’s
why he’s here today.  There are very few people that could have
withstood the assault, but he was able to. 

     So, I just want to congratulate you, and we have a very special
person here to swear you in.  A very — a man that I think has done just
a — I think he’s just an amazing man, as you know.  His name happens to
be Gorsuch, and he’s a member of the Supreme Court in extremely good
standing.  He’s highly respected by everybody. And I didn’t know, are
you two friends or something or did this just happen to be — Justice,
did this just happen to be the luck of the draw?  What happened?

     MR. KENNEDY:  I reached out to him.

     THE PRESIDENT:  Did you reach out?

     MR. KENNEDY:  Yes.

     THE PRESIDENT:  Well, you reached out to a very good man.

     So, please, if you would.  Thank you very much.  (Applause.)

     MR. SCHARF:  Mr. President, you have to sign the commission
first.  
  
     Sorry — sorry, Justice, we just need to —

     JUSTICE GORSUCH:  Oh, this has to be done first. 

     THE PRESIDENT:  I’ll do this first. 

     MR. SCHARF:  Sorry.

     THE PRESIDENT:  We’re going to make this a good one, right? 

     Okay.  It’s good so far, Bobby.  Good.   

     (The certificate is signed.)

     It’s a 10.  (Laughter and applause.)  (Inaudible.)

     (The president, Justice Gorsuch, and Secretary Kennedy pose for a
picture with the signed certificate.)

     JUSTICE GORSUCH:  Let me get out of this one. 

     MS. HINES:  No, why am I in it?  I’m not — (laughter) —

     PARTICIPANT:  Go in there.  Get the kids in there.  Go in there. 

     MS. HINES:  And the — oh, I’m going to hold it.  Okay, I’m holding
it. 

     THE PRESIDENT:  Why don’t you get in here? 

     JUSTICE GORSUCH:  Sure.  All right.  
  
     AIDE:  Over here, please. 

     (The president, Justice Gorsuch, Secretary Kennedy, and the family
of Secretary Kennedy pose for a picture with the signed certificate.) 
(Applause.)

     JUSTICE GORSUCH:  Would all the family like to join?

     PARTICIPANT:  Yeah, sure.

     JUSTICE GORSUCH:  Please place your left hand on the Bible and
raise your right.  
  
     Repeat after me.

     I, Robert F. Kennedy, Jr.

     MR. KENNEDY:  I, Robert F. Kennedy, Jr.

     JUSTICE GORSUCH:  Do solemnly swear. 

     MR. KENNEDY:  Do solemnly swear.

     JUSTICE GORSUCH:  That I will support and defend. 

     MR. KENNEDY:  That I will support and defend.

     JUSTICE GORSUCH:  The Constitution of the United States. 

     MR. KENNEDY:  The Constitution of the United States. 

     JUSTICE GORSUCH:  Against all enemies.

     MR. KENNEDY:  Against all enemies.

     JUSTICE GORSUCH:  Foreign and domestic. 

     MR. KENNEDY:  Foreign and domestic.

     JUSTICE GORSUCH:  That I will bear true faith and allegiance to the
same.

     MR. KENNEDY:  That I will bear true faith and allegiance to the
same.

     JUSTICE GORSUCH:  That I take this obligation freely.

     MR. KENNEDY:  That I take this obligation freely.

     JUSTICE GORSUCH: Without anty — without any mental reservation.   

     MR. KENNEDY:  Without any mental reservation.

     JUSTICE GORSUCH:  Or purpose of evasion.

     MR. KENNEDY:  Or purpose of evasion.

     JUSTICE GORSUCH:  And that I will well and faithfully discharge.

     MR. KENNEDY:  And that I will well and faithfully discharge.

     JUSTICE GORSUCH:   The duties of the office.

     MR. KENNEDY:  The duties of the office.

     JUSTICE GORSUCH:  On which I am about to enter. 

     MR. KENNEDY:  On which I am about to enter. 

     JUSTICE GORSUCH:  So help me, God. 

     MR. KENNEDY:  So help me, God.

     JUSTICE GORSUCH:  Congratulations, Mr. Secretary.  (Applause.) 

     THE PRESIDENT:  Bobby.

     MS. HINES:  Oh, Bobby.

     SECRETARY KENNEDY:  I — I want to being by thanking President Trump
for giving me this extraordinary opportunity, and I — I want to
introduce my family and thank them for being here. 

     My wife, Cheryl; my cousin, Anthony Shriver; my daughter, Kick; my
other daughter, Kyra; Carolina — Carolina Shriver; Joey Shriver; Jackson
Hines; and Amaryllis Kennedy. 

Oh, and I want to thank all of you so — for your support and throughout
this whole two-and-a-half-year journey.

     I — I — my first time in this Oval Office was in 1961, and I came
here to meet my — or 1962.  I came here, and I had a meeting with my
uncle, who was president then, where we talked about the environment. 

He was involved deeply, as we all know, in restoring physical fitness in
this country.  He challenged — at one point during his administration,
he challenged Americans to do a 50-mile walk, which I ultimately did. 

But I remember the day that my father completed his walk.  We were
staying at — at — up at Camp David.  And my father came in after 18
hours walking on the C&O towpath with his feet bleeding and blisters on
them. 

My father had a — one of his best friends was Al Lowenstein.  And Al
Lowenstein ult- — ultimately — he was a congressman from New York who
was assassinated himself in 1980.  But Al Lowenstein had started the
“Dump Johnson” movement to get rid of President Johnson and — and end
the Vietnam War.  And at the time that he started it, people just
thought it was a fool’s errand. 

And ultimately, he asked my father to run for president against
Johnson.  My father wouldn’t do it at that time, and he asked Gene
McCarthy.  McCarthy did it, and he joined that campaign. 

And my father ultimately ran, and Johnson then dropped out.  So, Al
Lowenstein had succeeded. 

And although Al Lowenstein was on the other side now running against my
father with Gene McCarthy, my father wrote him a note — a quote from
Emerson — where he said, “If a single man plants himself firmly on his
own ideal, and there abide, the whole wide world will come around to
him.” 

For 20 years, I’ve gotten up every morning on my knees and prayed that
God would put me in a position where I can end the childhood chronic
disease epidemic in this country.

On August 23rd of last year, God sent me President Trump, and he gave me
— (applause) — he’s now given me — he’s kept every promise that he’s
made to me.  He’s kept his word in every account and gone way beyond
it. 

I’m so grateful to you, Mr. President.  A lot of people told me that I
couldn’t trust President Trump, that I better get it in writing.  And we
did a handshake, and everything that he told me he was going to do, he
has done.  And I’m so grateful to him. 

And I’ve told you before, I genuinely believe that you are a pivotal
historical figure, and you are going to transform this country at a time
when we see all of the indicia of democracy now in tatters in our
country.  We see the rise of the military-industrial complex, the rise
of totalitarianism, these attacks on our Constitution, and this
breathtaking epidemic that is disabling our people. 

President Trump has promised to restore the American dream in this
country.  A healthy person has a thousand dreams.  A sick person only
has one.  Sixty percent of our population has only one dream: that they
get better.

President Trump has promised that he’s going to restore America’s
strength.  But we can’t be a strong nation if we have a weak citizenry. 
If people are sick — 60 percent of our — our people are sick. 
Seventy-seven percent, as President Trump mentioned, of our children
cannot qualify for military service.

And pr- — we need a man on a white horse now.  We need somebody who —
who is willing to come in and has the spine and the guts and the
strength to challenge orthodoxies, to stand in the way of vested
interests, and to break institutions that have turned against our
democracy.  President Trump has shown again and again that he is that
hero. 

And most recently, I gre- — greatly appreciate, and I called you the day
that you announced the termination of USAID.  My uncle started USAID in
1961 for humanitarian purposes, to put our country on the side of the
poor.  It has been captured by the military-industrial complex.  It has
become a sinister propagator of totalitarianism across — and war across
the globe, and very few people understand how sinister this agency
really is.  And President Trump saw that, and he stood up to it with a
master stroke.

And we want to do the same thing with the institutions that are stealing
the health of our children.  We need a revolutionary figure, and you are
that figure.  And I’m very grateful for you for giving me this
opportunity. 

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Bobby. 

SECRETARY KENNEDY:  I want to — (applause) — I just — I want to
recognize some of the — the allies that I’ve had in this battle for a
long time: Ra- — Senator Rand Paul; Senator Ron Johnson; Senator Roger
Marshall; Marjorie Taylor Greene; and — and Buddy Carter, who have all
been champions of the MAHA agenda before I even came along.  I’m very
grateful for you for standing strong. 

Thank you very much, President Trump.  (Applause.)

Q    Mr. Secretary, if I could ask, what plans do you have immediately
at HHS now that you’re sworn in, sir?

THE PRESIDENT:  He’s going to be running it.  He’s going to do a great
job.  That’s my plan.

Q    What would you like to see him to do first, Mr. President? 

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, he’s going to find out a lot of secrets that have
been maybe kept from us, but he’s going to come up with some solutions
to some big, big problems — solve problems.  And I think he’s going to
go down in the record books.  I really have confidence.  This group has
great co- — even Rand has confidence, and that’s — (laughter) — that
doesn’t happen often.  (Applause.)

(Inaudible) good luck.  Good luck. 

Q    If I could ask you, Mr. Secretary, do you plan to fire anyone
immediately?  Or what are your plans on day one, which I guess is today?

SECRETARY KENNEDY:  Our plans are radical transparency and returning
gold-standard science to NIH, to the FDA, and CDC — to end — ending the
corruption, ending the corporate capture of those agencies, getting rid
of the people on those panels that have conflicts of interest.  We can
do unadorned and unimpeded science, rather than the kind of product that
is coming out of those agencies today.

Q    Mr. Secretary, may I ask, how do you address concerns that some
Americans may have about your stance on vaccines?

SECRETARY KENNEDY:  If — when people actually hear what I think about
vaccines, which is common sense — which is vaccines should be tested,
they should be safe, everybody should have informed consent — people —
people are reacting because they hear things about me that aren’t true. 
They hear characterizations of things that I’ve said that are simply not
true. 

When they hear what I have to say, actually, about vaccines, everybody
supports it.

Q    Mr. Kennedy, Cara Castronuova from Lindell TV.  What’s your message
to Democrats in the Senate that fought so hard to keep you from taking
this position?  And congratulations, by the way.

SECRETARY KENNEDY:  President Trump has promised to be the president for
all Americans, and he has said to me that he understands that there’s no
such thing as Republican children or Democratic children.  All of our
children need to be protected.  And whether you’re in a blue state or
red state, I’m going to do everything I can to work with you, whether
you’re a Democrat or Republican, to restore child’s health in this
country.

Q    Mr. Secretary, m- —

THE PRESIDENT:  Great job.  Great job. 

Thank you all very much.  Thank you.  (Applause.)

END                     3:03 P.M. EST
