---
date: '2025-02-26'
modified_time: 2025-02-26 17:58:32-05:00
published_time: 2025-02-26 17:58:31-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/remarks/2025/02/remarks-by-president-trump-before-cabinet-meeting/
tags: remarks
title: Remarks by President Trump Before Cabinet Meeting
---
 
Cabinet Room

11:42 A.M. EST

     THE PRESIDENT:  Okay.  Thank you very much.  We appreciate you
being here.  And we’ve put together a great Cabinet.  And we’ve had
tremendous success.  We’ve been given a lot of credit for having a very
successful first month, and we want to make that many months — and
years, actually.  But we’re going to have many good months, and we’re
going to have many good years, I hope.  And we’re going to solve a lot
of problems.   
  
     We’re doing very well with Russia-Ukraine.  President Zelenskyy is
going to be coming on Friday.  It’s now confirmed.  And we’re going to
be signing an agreement, which will be a very big agreement.  And I want
to thank Howard and Scott for the job you guys did in putting it
together.  Really did an amazing job.  And that’ll be on rare earth and
other things.   
  
     And as you know, we’re in for, probably, $350 billion and Europe is
in for $100 billion.  And that’s a big difference.  So, we’re in for,
probably, three times as much.  And yet, it’s very important to
everybody, but Europe is very close.  We have a big ocean separating
us.  So, it’s very important for Europe.  And they, hopefully, will step
up and do maybe more than they’re doing and maybe a lot more.

  
     The previous administration put us in a very bad position, but
we’ve been able to make a deal where we’re going to get our money back
and we’re going to get a lot of money in the future.  And I think that’s
appropriate, because we have taxpayers that are — shouldn’t be footing
the bill, and they shouldn’t be footing the bill at more than the
Europeans are paying.   
  
     So, it’s all been worked out.  We’re happy about it.  And I think
that, very importantly, we’re going to be able to make a deal.   
  
     Most importantly, by far, we’re going to make a deal with Russia
and Ukraine to stop killing people.  They’ll stop killing young Russian
soldiers and young Ukrainian soldiers and other people, in addition, in
the towns and cities.  And we will consider that a very important thing
and a big accomplishment, because it was going nowhere until this
administration came in.  They hadn’t spoken to President Putin in two
years.  And so, we’ll keep you advised.  
  
     Before we begin the Cabinet, I’d like to have Scott

and a couple of people say a few things.  But most importantly — where
are you?  
  
     SECRETARY TURNER:  I’m right here, sir.  
  
     THE PRESIDENT:  This is a gentleman who’s going places — the head
of HUD.  And he’s going to say — you all know him.  And you’re going to
say grace —  
  
     SECRETARY TURNER:  Yes, sir.  
  
     THE PRESIDENT:  — and then we’ll have our meeting, right?

SECRETARY TURNER:  Yes.

  
     THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much.   
  
     SECRETARY TURNER:  Thank you, Mr. President.  Let’s pray.  
  
     Father, we thank you for this awesome privilege, Father, to be in
your presence.  God, thank you that you’ve allowed us to see this day. 
The Bible says that your mercies are new every morning.  And, Father
God, we give you the glory and the honor.  Thank you, God, for President
Trump, Father, for appointing us.  Father God, thank you for anointing
us to do this job.  Father, we pray you’ll give the president and the
vice president wisdom, Father God, as they lead.   
  
     Father, I pray for all of my colleagues that are here around the
table and in this room.  Lord God, we pray that we would lead with a
righteous clarity, Father God, and as we serve the people of this
country and every perspective agency, every job that we have, Father, we
would humble ourselves before you that we would lead in a manner that
you’ve called us to lead and to serve.   
  
     Father, the Bible says the blessed is the nation whose God is the
Lord.  But, Father, we today honor you.  And in your rightful place,
Father, thank you for giving us this opportunity to restore faith in
this country and be a blessing to the people of America.  And, Lord God,
today in our meeting, we pray that you will be glorified in our
conversation.  
      
     In Jesus’ name, amen.  
  
     PARTICIPANTS:  Amen.  
  
     THE PRESIDENT:  Scott, that was a very good job you did.  You’ve
done that before, haven’t you?  (Laughter.)  Wow.   
  
     So, Scott Turner is a terrific young guy.  He’s heading up HUD, and
he’s going to make us all very proud, right?  
  
     SECRETARY TURNER:  Thank you, Mr. President.  Yes, sir.

  
     THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much.  Great job.   
  
     In just over one month, illegal border crossings have plummeted by
numbers that nobody has actually ever seen before.  It’s much more than
100 percent. 

And we’ve unleashed American energy at levels that will soon be
reported, but we think we’re going to get it going very quickly.  We
have incredible people on the energy front. 

I think we have really great people on every front.  I’ll let you know
if they’re not good, but I think they really are. 

And we’re fighting every day to get the prices down.  The inflation is
stopping slowly, but part of the reason it’s stopping is because of high
interest rates and other problems that we inherited.  But we have to get
the prices down — not the inflation down — the prices of eggs and
various other things.  Eggs are a disaster.   
  
     The secretary of Agriculture is going to be showing you a chart
that’s actually mindboggling what’s happened — how low they were with us
and how high they are now.  But I think we can do something about it —  
  
     SECRETARY ROLLINS:  Yes, sir.  
  
     THE PRESIDENT:  — Madam Secretary.  
  
     SECRETARY ROLLINS:  Yes, sir.  
  
     THE PRESIDENT:  And I think you’re going to do a fantastic job in
that position. 

One of the most important initiatives is DOGE, and we have cut billions
and billions and billions of dollars.  We’re looking to get it maybe to
a trillion dollars.  If we can do that, we’re going to start getting to
be at a point where we can think in terms of balancing budgets, believe
it or not, something you haven’t heard in many, many years — decades,
actually.  And it’s a big — whether it’s this year or next year, I think
we’ll be very close to balancing budgets.  And the DOGE is very
important. 

And Elon is here to give you a summary of what’s happening, some of the
things they found — some of the horrible things they found — some of the
theft and fraud, and we call it waste and abuse, but a lot of fraud, and
probably some fraud that we’re not going to be able to prove is fraud,
but when you hear the names and the places where this money is going,
it’s a disgrace.   
  
     But we’ve requested that a lot of people — we want to make sure
that the people are working.  So, letters were sent out, and I think
everyone at this table is very much behind it.  And if they aren’t, I’d
want them to speak up.  But they’re very much behind it.   
  
     Letters were sent out to people just to find out, if the people
exist, do they work?  Who do they work for?  Where are they?  You know,
where have they been working?  Have they been working for other
companies or other entities at all and being paid by the government, so
they have two jobs, but they’re supposed to have one? 

And the letter asks some simple questions like, “What have you done
lately?”  And if they can answer that — because I can.  I can tell you
everything I’ve done for the last long period of time — a lot more than
a week. 

And in many cases, we haven’t gotten responses.  Usually that means that
maybe that person doesn’t exist or that person doesn’t want to say
they’re working for another company while being paid by the United
States government. 

So, there’s a lot of interesting things.  It’s very unique, but we have
a very unique situation because we have a lot of people that were
scamming our country.  We have a lot of dishonest people.  We have a lot
of people that took advantage of a lot of different situations, and
we’re not going to let that happen. 

So, I’m going to ask, if it’s possible, to have Elon get up first and
talk about DOGE, because it seems to be of great interest to everyone. 

I will say that there is a large group of people in this country that
have such admiration for what we’re doing.  I got elected with a
tremendous vote — winning every swing state, winning the popular vote,
winning the counties by thousands of counties.  I think it was 2,800 to
500.  2,800 counties to 500 counties.  Think of that. 

And so, we have a mandate to do this, and this is part of the reason I
got elected.  I got elected based on taxes and based on many things, the
border, but also based on balancing budgets and getting our country back
into shape, and this is a big part of it. 

So, Elon, if you could get up and explain where you are, how you’re
doing, and how much we’re cutting.  And it’s an honor to have you.  He’s
been a tremendously successful guy.  He’s really working so hard.  And
he’s got businesses to run.  And in many ways, they say, “How do you do
this?”  And, you know, he’s sacrificing a lot and — getting a lot of
praise, I’ll tell you, but he’s also getting hit.  And we would expect
that, and that’s the way it works. 

So, I’d like to have Elon Musk please say a few words.  
  
     MR. MUSK:  Well, tha- — thank you —  
      
     THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Elon.

MR. MUSK:  Thank you, Mr. President.  Well, I a- — I actually just call
myself humble tech support here — (laughter) — because this is actually
— as crazy as it sounds, that — that is almost a literal description of
the work that the DOGE team is doing is helping fix the government
computer systems.  Many of these systems are extremely old.  They don’t
communicate.  There are a lot of mistakes in the systems.  The software
doesn’t work.  The — so, we are actually tech support.  It’s — it’s a —
it’s ironic, but it’s true.

The — the overall goal here with the DOGE team is to help address the
enormous deficit.  We simply cannot sustain, as a country, $2 trillion
deficits.  The interest rates — just the interest on the national debt
now exceeds the Defense Department spending. 

We spend a lot on the Defense Department, but we’re spending, like, over
a trillion dollars on interest.  If this continues, the country will go
— become de facto bankrupt.  It’s — it’s not an optional thing.  It is
an essential thing.  That — that’s — that’s the reason I’m here and
taking a lot of flak and getting a lot of death threats, by the way.  I
can, like, stack them up, you know.

But if we don’t do this, America will go bankrupt.  That’s why it has to
be done.  And I’m confident, at this point — knock on wood, you know —
knock on my wooden head — (laughter) — the — there’s a lot of wood up
there — that we can actually find a trillion dollars in savings.  That
would be roughly 15 percent of the $7 trillion budget.

And obviously, that can only be done with the support of everyone in
this room.  And I’d like to thank everyone for — for your support. 
Thank you very much this.  This — this can only be done with — with your
support.

So, this is — it’s really — DOGE is a support function for the president
and for the — the agencies and departments to help achieve those savings
and to effect- — effectively find 15 percent in reduction in fraud and —
and waste.

And — and we bring the receipts.  So, people say, like, “Well, is this
real?”  Just go to DOGE.gov.  We l- — we — line item by line item, we
specify each item.  So — and w- — and I — I should say, we — also, we
will make mistakes.  We won’t be perfect.  But when we make mistake,
we’ll fix it very quickly. 

So, for example, with USAID, one of the things we accidentally canceled,
very briefly, was Ebola — Ebola prevention.  I think we all wanted Ebola
prevention.  So, we restored the Ebola prevention immediately, and there
was no interruption.

But we do need to move quickly if we’re — if we’re to achieve a
trillion-dollar deficit reduction in tw- — in — in financial year 2026. 
It requires saving $4 billion per day, every day from now through the
end of September.  But we can do it, and we will do it.

Thank you. 

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, do you have any questions of Elon while we’re on
the subject of DOGE?  Because we’ll finish off with that.  And if you
would have any questions, please ask — you could ask me or Elon.

Go ahead, please. 

Q    Thank you, Mr. President.  Thank you, Mr. Musk.  I just wanted to
ask you, the — President Trump put out a Truth Social today saying that
everybody in the Cabinet was — was happy with you.  I just wondered if
that — if you had heard otherwise, and if you had heard anything about
members of the Cabinet who weren’t happy with the way things were
going.  And if so, what are you doing to address those — any
dissatisfaction?

MR. MUSK:  To the best of —

THE PRESIDENT:  Hey, Elon, let the Cabinet speak just for a second. 
(Laughter.)   
  
     Is anybody unhappy with Elon?  If you are, we’ll throw them out of
here.  (Laughter.)  Is anybody unhappy?  (Applause.)

They are — they have a lot of respect for Elon and that he’s doing
this.  And some disagree a little bit, but I will tell you, for the most
part, I think everyone is not only happy, they’re thrilled. 

So, go ahead, Elon.

SECRETARY ROLLINS:  And grateful.

MR. MUSK:  And President Trump has put together, I think, the best
cabinet ever, literally.  So, I — and I do not give false praise.  This
— this is an incredible group of people.  I don’t think such a talented
team has actually ever been assembled.  I think it’s literally the best
cabinet that the country has ever had.  And I think the companies should
be incredibly appreciative of the people in this room.

Q    Mr. President —

THE PRESIDENT:  Please.  Yeah.  Go ahead.

Q    Mr. President, thank you.  Mr. Musk.  Are there — about half of the
government employees so far appear to have responded to your request for
what they’ve been doing over the past week.  Is there a timeline in
place for next moves for people being fired?  And when can the American
people expect to see results from that?

MR. MUSK:  Yes.  Well, to be — to be clear, like, the — I think that
email, perhaps, was misinterpreted as a performance review, but actually
it was a pulse check review.  “Do you have a pulse?”  (Laughter.)  “Do
you have a pulse and two neurons?”  (Laughter.)  So, if you have a pulse
and two neurons, you can reply to an email.

This is, you know, I think, not a high bar, is what I’m saying.  This is
a — should be — anyone could accomplish this. 

But what we are trying to get to the bottom of is we think there are a
number of people on the government payroll who are dead, which is
probably why they can’t respond, and — and some people who are not real
people, like they’re literally fictional individuals that are collecting
payche- — well, somebody is collecting paychecks on a fictional
individual.  So, we’re just literally trying to figure out are these
people real, are they alive, and can they write an email, which I think
is a reasonable expectation for the Amer- — you know, the American
public would have at least that expectation of someone in the public
sector.

Q    Mr. Musk —

Q    Mr. Musk —

Q    — roughly a million employees —

MR. MUSK:  (Laughs.)  This is not a — this is not a high bar, guys. 
Come on.  (Laughter.)

Q    Roughly a million employees have responded so far to this email. 
Does that mean that the remaining 1 million or so federal employees now
risk being terminated?  And is it your understanding and expectation
when you post a directive on X that the Cabinet secretaries will follow
that order?  Because several agencies have instructed employees that
this is voluntary or not to respond.

MR. MUSK:  Yeah.  Well, I mean, to be cl — so, I guess there was a —
like, last week, the president en- — encouraged me, via Truth Social and
also via phone call, to be more aggressive.  And I was like, “Okay.” 
You know, “Yes, sir, Mr. President.  We will indeed do that.”  The
president is the commander in chief.  I — I do what the president asks.

So — and I said, “Can we send out an email to everyone, just saying,
‘What did you get done last week?’”  The president said yes.  So, I — I
did that. 

And, you know, we — we got a partial response.  But we — we’re going to
send another email.  But we — our — our goal is not to be capricious or
— or unfair.  It’s — we want to give people every opportunity to send an
email and the email could simply be “What I’m working on is too
sensitive or classified to — to describe.”  Like, literally, just re- —
that would be sufficient.  We’re — we’re — you know, I think this is
just common sense. 

Q    And what is your target number for — for how many workers,
employees you’re looking to cut total?

MR. MUSK:  We — we wish to keep everyone who is doing a job that is
essential and doing that job well.  But if — if they’re — if the job is
not essential or they’re not doing the job well, they obviously should
not be on the public payroll. 

(Cross-talk.)

THE PRESIDENT:  No, I have to — I would like to add —

(Cross-talk.)

Wait a minute.  Wait.  Wait.  I’d like to add that those million people
that haven’t responded, though, Elon, they are on the bubble.  You know,
I wouldn’t say that we’re thrilled about it.  You know, they haven’t
responded.  Now, maybe they don’t exist.  Maybe we’re paying people that
don’t exist.

Don’t forget, we just got here.  This group just got here.  But those
people are on the bubble, as they say.  You know, maybe they’re going to
be gone.  Maybe they’re not around.  Maybe they have other jobs.  Maybe
they moved and they’re not where they’re supposed to be.  A lot of
things could have happened.

I wouldn’t say that Biden ran a very tight administration.  They spent
money like nobody has ever spent money before, wasted money — the Green
New Scam, all of the different things they spent money on. 

And you’ve seen that.  You’ve seen that with some of the things that I
read in speeches.  I read them, and people can’t believe, when I read
them, $20 million here, $30 million here for, you know, a little
educational course on something.  Circumcision, right?  Circumcision. 
$20 million to inform the people of such-and-such a country on other
things and other things other than that.

So, yeah, those people are — right now, we’re trying to find out who
those people are that haven’t responded.  Now, there’ll be some agencies
— like Marco has people within State that are right now doing very
classified, very confidential work.  And we understand that, and we’ve
talked.  And, you know, we’re being a little more surgical. 

And Marco is doing a lot of things himself.  He’s — and some of the
secretaries are.  We’re going to be going to them.  We’re going to be
talking about it today.  We’re going to ask them to do their own DOGE. 
In other words, they’ll look in their group and who —

I spoke with Lee Zeldin, and he thinks he’s going to be cutting 65 or so
percent of the people from Environmental, and we’re going to speed up
the process, too, at the same time.  He had a lot of people that weren’t
doing their job — they were just obstructionists — and a lot of people
that didn’t exist, I guess, Lee, too.  You found a lot of empty spots
that the people weren’t there.  They didn’t exist.

And I think Education is going to be one of those.  You go around
Washington, you see all these buildings — the Department of Education. 
We want to move education back to the states, where it belongs.  Iowa
should have education.  Indiana should run their own education.  You’re
going to see education go way up.

Right now, we’re ranked at the very bottom of the list, but we’re at the
top of the list in one thing: the cost per pupil.  We spend more money
per pupil than any other country in the world, and yet it’s Denmark and
Norway, Sweden.  And I — you hate to say this — and, you know, we’re
going to get along very well with China, but it’s a competitor: They’re
at the top of the list.  They’re among the top 10, usually.  And they’re
a very big country, so we can’t use that as an excuse — right? — because
we’re a very big country too.

But we’re – we were ranked last time — under Biden, we were ranked 40
out of 40.  They do the 40 certain nations that they’ve done for a long
time.  It seems to be 40, for whatever reason.  And we were ranked
number 40.  A year ago, we were 38.  Then we were 39.  We’re — we hit
40.  And so, we’re last in that, and we’re first in cost per pupil.  So,
I would say that’s unacceptable.

Lawrence, do you have something?  Go ahead.

Q    So, Mr. President, I know you like competition, and I know it’s
early.  So, which department are you most impressed with? 

And then, to Mr. Mu- — (laughter).  That’s the first one.  And, Mr.
Musk, which department have you received the most resistance from?   
  
     Mr. President, you first.

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, I think both of those questions are a little bit —
well, you’re a pretty controversial guy.  (Laughter.)  Look, it’s very
early.  Right now, I think I’m impressed with everybody.  So far,
everybody.  If I wasn’t, in the first month, we’d — and some of them
just got here.  They just got approved two days ago, right?

But I think I’m very impressed with everybody.  So far, I’m very happy
with all of the choices.

I think that Elon has done incredibly with some groups.  And some groups
are much easier than others.  It is true: State is a, you know, very
difficult situation.  We’re right now negotiating very successfully, I
think, with Russia and with Ukraine, and we have a lot of countries
involved.  And we have to be a little bit careful what we do and who
we’re terminating.  But Marco is doing that very — I think he’s going to
be very precise.  It’s going to be —

We’re cutting down government.  We’re cutting down the size of
government.  We have to.  We’re bloated.  We’re sloppy.  We have a lot
of people that aren’t doing their job.  We have a lot of people that
don’t exist.   
  
     You look at Social Security as an example.  I mean, you have so
many people in Social Security where, if you believe it, they’re 200
years old.  And what we’re doing is finding out: Are checks going out
for that and is somebody cashing those checks who’s maybe 35 years old? 
Okay?   
  
     So, there’s a lot of dishonesty.  There’s a lot of fraud.   
  
     But I think at this moment, I’ll take Elon off the spot.  I think
that he’s impressed — he said it very well –better than I can say it —
that he’s impressed with the people in this room.  Very impressed.  And
I am too.  And it’s too early to say, but I think everybody is on
board.  They all know — we want to balance a budget.  We want to have a
balanced budget within a reasonably short period of time, meaning maybe
by next year or the year after, but maybe — maybe even sooner than
that.   
  
     Q    Mr. President, your — your number one issue was the border. 
We just got new information that they’re doxing our federal agents. 
They’re putting their personal information out there, these activists,
and they’re disrupting the operations.  So, you got Tren de Aragua
running all across the country —  
  
     THE PRESIDENT:  Well, we have activists.  That’s true.  And a lot
of those —  
  
     Q    So, what are we going to do about the activists —  
  
     THE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.  A lot of those activists are acting
illegally.  And we’ll give that to our attorney general, and she’ll take
a look at that very strongly.  But we’re also having tremendous support
from Border Patrol, from ICE.  The ICE agents have been unbelievable. 
Border Patrol — their leadership at Border Patrol has been incredible,
and they’re working very well.   
  
     And, as you know — and I saw you reporting it this morning,
actually — we set records on the least number of illegal aliens coming
in, migrants coming into our country that we’ve had in more than 50
years.  And we did this all within a period of weeks, because we took
over a mess.  The world was pouring in.  And remember, they were coming
in from jails and prisons and mental institutions and insane asylums,
and they were gang members and drug dealers.  Anybody who wanted to come
in, they came.  And from not just South America, from all over the
world.  So, it’s amazing what they’ve done.   
  
     And Kristi and — and Tom Homan, the job they’ve done has been
absolutely amazing.  We set records for — and we want people to come
into our country, by the way, but they want to come in — they have to
come in legally.   
  
     I want that to be really understood.  We want people in our
country, but they have to come in legally.   
  
     Q    Can I follow on that, Mr. President?

Q    Mr. President.

Q    About the — the Trump gold card idea —  
  
     THE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.  
  
     Q    — that you unveiled yesterday.  
  
     THE PRESIDENT:  I hope you liked it.  (Laughter.)  
  
     Q    I await more information.  But the question is: Does this
reflect a view, on your part, that the American immigration system has
never been properly monetized as you feel it should be?  
    

     THE PRESIDENT:  Well, not so much monetized.  It hasn’t been
properly run.  I get calls from, as an example, companies where they
want to hire the number one student at a school.  A person comes from
India, China, Japan, lots of different places, and they go to Harvard,
the Wharton School of Finance.  They go to Yale.  They go to all great
schools.  And they graduate number one in their class, and they are made
job offers, but the offer is immediately rescinded because you have no
idea whether or not that person can stay in the country.  I want to be
able to have that person stay in the country.   
  
     These companies can go and buy a gold card, and they can use it as
a matter of recruitment.   
  
     At the same time, the company is using that money to pay down
debt.  We’re going to — we’re going to pay down a lot of debt with
that.  
  
     Q    Are they going to have to —  
  
     THE PRESIDENT:  And I think the gold card is going to be used by —
not only for that.  I mean, they’ll be used by companies.  I mean, I
could see Apple — I’ve spoken with Tim Cook — and, by the way, he’s
going to make a $500 billion investment in the country only because of
the results of the election and, I think, because of tariffs.  He’s
going to want to be in the country because of tariffs.  Because if
you’re in the country, there is no tariff.  If you’re out of the
country, you got to pay tariffs.  And that’s going to be a great
investment, I think, that he’s making.  I know it’s going to be a great
investment.   
  
     But we have to be able to get people in the country, and we want
people that are productive people.  And I will tell you, the people that
can pay $5 million, they’re going to create jobs.  They’re going to
spend a lot of money on jobs.  They’re going to have to pay taxes on
that too.  So, they’re going to be hiring people, they’re going to be
bringing people in and companies in.  And, I don’t know, maybe it will
sell like crazy.  I happen to think it’s going to sell like crazy.  It’s
a bargain.  
  
     But we’ll —

     Q    Will they have to commit to a certain number?  
  
     THE PRESIDENT:  — know fairly soon.  I think Howard and — and Scott
— a few of you, really, are responsible for it.  But, Howard, if you
want to discuss that for a couple of minutes, I think I’d like to have
you.  I think it’s going to be a very successful program.  
  
     SECRETARY LUTNICK:  Sure.  
  
     THE PRESIDENT:  This is Commerce.  
  
     SECRETARY LUTNICK:  So, the EB-5 program, which has been around for
many years, had investment of a million dollars into projects in
America.  And those projects were often suspect, they didn’t really work
out, there wasn’t any oversight of it.  And so, for a million-dollar
investment, you got a visa, and then you came into the country and ended
up with a green card.   
  
     So, it was poorly overseen, poorly executed.  Then you had our
border open, where millions of people came through.   
  
     So, the idea is we will have a proper business.  We will modify the
EB-5 agreement.  Kristi and I are working on it together.  For $5
million, they’ll get a license from the Department of Commerce.  Then
they’ll make a proper investment on the EB-5, right?  And we think Scott
and I will design the EB-5 investment model, because Scott and I are the
best people together to do that.  So, this is joint.   
  
     This is exactly the Trump administration.  We all work together. 
We work it out to be the best.  And if we sell — just remember — 200,000
— there’s a line for EB-5 of 250,000 right now — 200,000 of these gold
green cards is $1 trillion

to pay down our debt, and that’s why the president is doing it, because
we are going to balance this budget, and we are going to pay off the
debt under President Trump.   
  
     Q    Mr. —

Q    And to qualify, do you have to promise and make commitments to
create a certain number of jobs here in the U.S.?  
  
     THE PRESIDENT:  No.  No.  Because not all these people are going to
be job builders.  They’ll be successful people, or they’ll be people
that were hired from colleges, like — sort of like paying an athlete a
bonus.  I mean, Apple or one of the companies will go out and they’ll
spend five mil- — they’ll buy five of them, and they’re going to get
five people.   
  
     Look, I’ve had the complaint where — I’ve had the complaint from a
lot of companies where they go out to hire people, and they can’t hire
them b- — out of colleges.  And you know what they do?  They go back to
India, or they go back to the country where they came, and they open up
a company, and they become billionaires.  They become — and they’re
employing thousands and there are a lot of examples. 

There are some really big examples where they were forced out of the
country.  They graduated top in their class at a great school, and they
weren’t able to stay.  This is all the time you hear it. 

And the biggest complaint I get from companies, other than
overregulation, which we took care of, but we’re going to have to take
care of it here, because a lot of that was put back on by Biden.  But
the biggest complaint is the fact that they can’t have any longevity
with people.  This way, they have pretty much unlimited longevity. 

Also, with the $5 million, you know, that’s a path to citizenship.  So,
that’s going to be — it’s sort of a green card-plus, and it’s a path to
citizenship.  We’re going to call it the gold card.  And I think it’s
going to be very treasured.  I think it’s going to do very well.  And
we’re going to start selling, hopefully, in about two weeks.

Now, just so you understand, if we sell a million — right? — a million,
that’s $5 trillion.  Five trillion.  Howard was using a different
number, but that’s $5 trillion.  If we sell 10 million, which is
possible — 10 million highly productive people coming in or people that
we’re going to make productive — they’ll be young, but they’re talented,
like a talented athlete — that’s $50 trillion. 

That means our debt is totally paid off, and we have $15 trillion above
that.  And — now, I don’t know that we’re going to sell that many. 
Maybe we won’t so many at all.  But I think we’re going to sell a lot,
because I think there’s — there really is a thirst. 

No other country can do this, because people don’t want to go to other
countries.  They want to come here.  Everybody wants to come here,
especially since November 5th.  (Laughter.)

(Cross-talk.)

SECRETARY LUTNICK:  They’ll all be vetted, by the way.  All these people
will be vetted. 

Q    How?

SECRETARY LUTNICK:  Okay?  They’ll be vetted.

Q    Mr. President, on Ukraine.  Can you talk a lot — a little bit about
what type of security guarantees you’re willing to make?

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, I’m not going to make security guarantees beyond
very much.  We’re going to have Europe do that, because it’s in — you
know, we’re talking about Europe is their next-door neighbor.  But we’re
going to make sure everything goes well. 

And as you know, we’ll be making a — we’ll be really partnering with
Ukraine in terms of rare earth.  We very much need rare earth.  They
have great rare earth.  We’ll be working with Secretary Burgum and with
Chris.  You’ll be working on that together. 

And we’re going to be able to have tremendous — I mean, this gives us —
because we don’t have that much of it here.  We have some, but we don’t
have that much, and we need a lot more to really propel us to the next
level of — to lead in every way.  We’re leading right now with AI. 
We’re leading with everything right now, but we have to — we need
resources. 

We have to double our electric capacity.  We have to do many things.  We
have to really triple, if you think of it, the electric capacity from
what we have right now, if you can believe it.  (Laughter.) 

Q    But will the United States — can I —

THE PRESIDENT:  So, I just say this.  So, the deal we’re making gets us
— it brings us great wealth.  We get back the money that we spent, and
we hope that we’re going to be able to settle this up. 

We want to settle it.  We want to stop — I tell you what.  I’m doing it
for two reasons, but the number one reason, by far, is to watch — all
these people being killed.  I see pictures every week from — I assume
satellite pictures, mostly, but there’s some pictures on site of
thousands of soldiers that are being killed.  They’re being decimated,
because equipment today — military equipment is so powerful and so
devastating.  And, number one, I want to see people stop. 

And they’re not from here.  They’re from primarily two other countries. 

And then, by the way, let’s talk about the Middle East.  We got to solve
that problem too.  And that’s come a long way.  We’re doing very well in
that also.  A lot of things are happening on that.  But I’m watching
soldiers being killed — Ukrainian and Russian soldiers being killed.  My
number one thing is to get that stopped. 

My number two thing is I don’t want to have to pay any more money,
because we’ve — Biden has spent $350 billion without any chance of
getting it back.  Now we’re going to be getting all of that money back,
plus a lot more.  And we provided a great thing.  I mean, we’ve provided
something very important, and we’ll be working with Ukraine and —
because we’ll be taking that — we’re going to be taking what we’re
entitled to take. 

Now, they spent $350 billion, and Europe spent $100 billion.  Now, does
anybody really think that’s fair?  But then we find out, a little while
ago — not so long ago, a few months ago, I found out that the money they
spent, they get back, but the money we spent, we don’t get back.  I
said, “Well, we’re going to get it back.” 

And we’ll be able to make a deal.  And again, President Zelenskyy is
coming to sign the deal.  And it’s a great thing.  It’s a great deal for
Ukraine, too, because they get us over there, and we’re going to be
working over there.  We’ll be on the land.  And, you know, in that way,
it’s — there’s sort of automatic security, because nobody’s going to be
messing around with our people when we’re there.  And so, we’ll be there
in that way. 

But Europe will be watching it very closely.  I know that UK has said
and France has said that they want to put — they volunteered to put
so-called peacekeepers on the site.  And I think that’s a good thing.

(Cross-talk.)

Q    Mr. President, you had mentioned the high cost of eggs, and we’ve
seen consumer confidence this week have a sharp drop from last month —
the biggest dip in, I believe, three years.  Why is that — your
assessment, why is that the case and is there anything you can do? 

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, I think that consumer confidence — if you look at
confidence in the nation, it had the biggest increase in the history of
the chart.  It went up 42 points in a period of, like, days after the
election, since the election.  So, since the election, the confidence in
our nation — including right track, wrong track — the first time it’s
ever happened, where we were on the right track, because this country
has been on the wrong track for a long time. 

So, the confidence in business, confidence in the country has reached an
all-time high.  We have never reached levels like we are right now.

Okay.

(Cross-talk.)

Q    Mr. President, you said — Mr. President, you’ve been very clear in
saying that as long as you’re president, Iran will never get a nuclear
weapon. 

THE PRESIDENT:  That’s true. 

Q    Is it also your policy that as long as you’re president, China will
never take Taiwan by force?

THE PRESIDENT:  I never comment on that.  I don’t comment on any —
because I don’t want to ever put myself in that position.  And if I said
it, I certainly wouldn’t be saying it to you.  I’d be saying it to other
people, maybe people around this table — (laughter) — and very specific
people around this table.  

Q    Is it a concern (inaudible)?

THE PRESIDENT:  So, I don’t want to put myself in that position.  But I
can tell you what, I have a great relationship with President Xi.  I’ve
had a great relationship with him.  We want them to come in and invest. 

I see so many things saying that we don’t want China in this country. 
That’s not right.  We want them to invest in the United States.  That’s
good.  That’s a lot of money coming in.  And we’ll invest in China. 
We’ll do things with China. 

The relationship we’ll have with China would be a very good one.  I see
all of these phony reports that we don’t want their money; we don’t want
anything to do with them.  That’s wrong. 

We’re going to have a good relationship with China, but they won’t be
able to take advantage of us.  What they did to Biden was — he didn’t
know what was happening.  He didn’t know what he was doing.  The
administration didn’t know what they were doing.  It was very sad to
watch.   
  
     But we’re going to have a good relationship with China and Russia
and Ukraine and the Middle East.  We’re doing things that —

Look, when I left, we had no wars.  We had defeated ISIS totally.  We
had no inflation.  We didn’t have the Afghanistan withdrawal — the worst
withdrawal anybody has ever seen.  I think that’s one of the reasons
that President Putin looked at that.  He said, “Wow, these guys are a
paper tiger.  Look at” — we’re no paper tiger. 

Don’t forget: We got rid of ISIS in three weeks.  People said it would
take five years.  We did it, because when I came in, I let them do what
they had to do.  And the man that headed that operation is now going to
be your — your chairman, right?

SECRETARY HEGSETH:  Yes, sir.

THE PRESIDENT:  Chairman of the Joint Chiefs. 

SECRETARY HEGSETH:  Yes, sir.

THE PRESIDENT:  And — “Razin” Caine.  I liked him right from the
beginning.  As soon as I heard his name, I said, “That’s my guy.” 

Okay.  Any other questions?

(Cross-talk.)

Q    Mr. President, has there been enough de- — decreases in crossings
at the border for you to continue the pause on tariffs against Mexico
and Canada?  And, if not —

THE PRESIDENT:  No, no.  I’m going to — I’m not stopping the tariffs,
no.  Millions of people have died because of the fentanyl that comes
over the border. 

Q    Even with the 90 percent drop in border crossings, though, this —

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, that’s — well —

Q    — last month compared to about a year ago?

THE PRESIDENT:  Yeah, they’ve been good, but that’s also due to us. 
Mostly due to us.  I mean —

Q    Mr. President —  
  
     Q    Mr. President, on CBS — 

THE PRESIDENT:  — it’s very hard.  It’s, right now, very hard to come
through the border.  But the — look, the damage has been done.  We’ve
lost millions of people due to fentanyl.  It comes mostly from China,
but it comes through Mexico, and it comes through Canada. 

Q    Mr. Presi- —

THE PRESIDENT:  And I have to tell you that, you know, on April 2nd — I
was going to do it on April 1st, but I’m a little bit superstitious, so
I made it April 2nd — the tariffs go on, not all of them but a lot of
them.  And I think you’re going to see something that’s going to be
amazing. 

We’ve been taken advantage of as a country for a long period of time. 
We’ve been — we’ve been tariffed, but we didn’t tariff.  Now, I did. 
When I was here, I tariffed.  We took in $700 billion from China — $700
billion.  Not one president in this — in the history of our country took
in 10 cents from China.  At the same time, China respected us. 

Now, when COVID came in, that was a different deal.  I used to call it
the China virus.  I guess I can call it the China virus again, but, you
know, it was — it’s an accurate term, but I won’t do that out of respect
to China.  Okay?

(Cross-talk.)

Say it again.  What?

Q    On Gaza.  I just wondered if there’s any progress towards the
second phase of the ceasefire that you can tell us about.

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, I’m very disappointed when I see four — four
bodies came in today.  These are young people.  Young people don’t die. 
Okay?  Young people don’t die.  These are young people.  Four bodies
came in today.  They think they’re doing us a favor by sending us
bodies. 

So, look, that’s a decision that has to be made by Israel, by Bibi, but
Israel has to make that decision.  We got a lot of hostages back, but
it’s very sad what happened to those people.  I mean, you had a young
lady with her hand practically blown off.  You know why it blew up? 
Because she put up her hand to try and stop a bullet that was coming her
way, and it hit her hand and blew off her fingers, big part of her
hand. 

This is a vicious group of people, and Israel is going to have to decide
what they’re doing.  Phase one is going to be ending.  Think of it:
Today, they sent in four bodies.  Bodies. 

And I will say one thing, though.  I’ve spoken to a lot of the parents
and a lot of the people involved.  They want those bodies almost as much
and maybe even just as much as they wanted their son or their daughter. 
Amazing.  “Please, sir.  Please.  My son is dead, but they have his
body.  Please can you get it for us?”  They — it’s the biggest thing. 
It’s incredible the level — they want the bodies of these people. 
They’re dead.  They’re dead. 

And, you know, when I saw the ones that came in two weeks ago, they
looked like they just got out of a concentration camp.  Then, the
following week, a group came in, and they weren’t as bad — in as bad of
shape.

But Israel is going to have to make a decision.  You’re right, phase
one, and now phase two has started.  And today, we got some, you know,
very, very sad — we knew they were dead, by the way.  We knew they were
going to be bodies, as opposed to people that were living.  But it’s a
very sad situation. 

At some point, somebody is going to say we got to do something about
this.

(Cross-talk.)

Q    Mr. President, you were just talking about Afghanistan and the
botched withdrawal.  Have all the generals or command staff that were
involved with the withdrawal been fired or relieved of duty?

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, that’s a great idea.  It’s — (laughter) — sorry,
I’m not going to tell this man what to do, but I will say that.  If I
had his place, I’d fire every single one of them, Pete.  Pete, that’s a
very good question. 

SECRETARY HEGSETH:  Well, it’s a question we’ve thought a lot about. 
We’re doing a complete review of every single aspect of what happened
with the botched withdrawal of Afghanistan and plan to have full
accountability.  It’s one of the first things we announced at the
Defense Department for that reason, sir. 

Certainly General “Razin” Caine, who’s on his way in, was not a part of
that.  Instead, was a part of leading the effort against ISIS by untying
the hands of war fighters and finishing the job properly and then
bringing our troops home. 

So, we’re taking a very different view, obviously, than the previous
administration, and there will be full accountability. 

THE PRESIDENT:  I don’t see big promotions in that group.  (Laughter.) 
And I think they’re going to be largely gone.  I know the man on my
left.  I think they’re going to be largely gone. 

That was a horrible display.  And, you know, I’ve dealt with the parents
and the family of the 13 that were killed.  But, you know, nobody ever
talks about the 40 that were so badly hurt, with the arms and the legs
and the face and the whole thing — the missing arms and legs.  It was so
terrible, the way that was handled.

And it should have been gone through Bagram.  We have a big base with
big fences that nobody can get in, and you have, you know, hundreds of
acres, instead of a little local airport where the whole place went
crazy.  That was so badly handled.  And I would think that most of those
people are going to be gone. 

Q    Are we going to take Bagram back?

THE PRESIDENT:  So, I’ll tell you what has bothered me very much — very,
very much: We give billions of dollars to Afghanistan.  Nobody knows
that.  Nobody knew that.  Do you know we give billions of dollars to
Afghanistan?  And yet we left behind all of that equipment, which
wouldn’t have happened. 

You know, we were getting out under me.  I’m the one that got it down to
5,000 people.  We were going to get out, but we were going to keep
Bagram, not because of Afghanistan but because of China, because it’s
exactly one hour away from where China makes its nuclear missiles. 

So, we were going to keep Bagram.  We were going to keep a small force
on Bagram.  We were going to have Bagram Air Base, one of the biggest
air bases in the world.  One of the biggest runways, one of the most
powerful runways, in the sense that it was very heavy concrete and
steel.  You could carry about anything.  You could land anything on
those runways. 

We gave it up.  And you know who’s occupying it right now?  China. 
China.  Biden gave it up.  So, we’re going to keep that, and we’re going
to have a withdrawal, and we’re going to take our equipment.  We’re
going to do it properly.  We’re going to do it very — we’re going to
keep the equipment.   
  
     Well, they ran out.  It was — what happened there was a — in fact,
you know, in all fairness to Putin, when he saw that, he said, “Well,
this is our time to go and go into Ukraine,” I guess, because it was —
the timing seemed to be about right.   
  
     But we send them billions of dollars in aid, which nobody knows. 
If they — if the American public knew that — they know it now.  And if
we’re doing that, I think they should give our equipment back.  And I
told Pete to study that. 

But we left billions — tens of billions of dollars’ worth of equipment
behind.  Brand-new trucks.  You see them display it every year on their
little roadway someplace where they have a road and they drive the — you
know, waving the flag and talking about America.  Beautiful equipment
that’s all — I mean, the top-of-the-line stuff, brand-new stuff.  Now
it’s getting older.   
  
     But you know what?  We’re going to pay them.  I think we should get
a lot of that equipment back.   
  
     You know that Afghanistan is one of the biggest sellers of military
equipment in the world.  You know why?  They’re selling the equipment
that we left.  We’re first.  They were second or third.  Can you believe
it?  They’re selling 777,000

rifles, 70,000 armor-plated — many of them were armor-plated trucks and
vehicles — 70,000.   
  
     If you think of a used car lot, the biggest one in the country, you
have — I would say, JD, if somebody had 500 cars, that would be a lot. 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah, that would be quite a lot.

THE PRESIDENT:  This is 70,000 vehicles we had there, and we left it for
them.  I think we should get it back.  
  
     (Cross-talk.)  
  
     Q    Mr. President, the spending bill that passed last night aims
to cut $2 trillion.  
  
     THE PRESIDENT:  Right.  
  
     Q    Can you guarantee that Medicare, Medicaid, Social Security
will not be touched?  
  
     THE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.  I mean, I have said it so many times, you
shouldn’t be asking me that question.  Okay?  This will not be “read my
lips.”  It won’t be “read my lips” anymore: We’re not going to touch
it.  
  
     Now, we are going to look for fraud.  I’m sure you’re okay with
that, like people that shouldn’t be on, people that are illegal aliens
and others — criminals, in many cases.  And that’s with Social
Security.  We have a lot of people — you see that immediately.  When you
see people that are 200 years old that are being sent checks for Social
Security — some of them are actually being sent checks. 

So, we’re tracing that down, and I have a feeling that Pam is going to
do a very good job with that.  But you have a lot of fraud.   
  
     But, no, I’m not — we’re not doing anything on that.  
  
     Q    Mr. President, part of your mission, sir —  
  
     Q    Mr. President — Mr. President, on CBS News.  Mr. President,
you’re in litigation —  
      
     Q    Part of your mission has been — thank you.  I’m sorry.   
  
     Part of your mission has been to restore executive control over the
executive branch.  Is it your view of your authority that you have the
power to call up any one of or all of the people seated at this table
and issue orders that they’re bound to follow?  
  
     THE PRESIDENT:  Oh, yeah.  They’ll follow the orders.  Yes, they
will.   
  
     Q    No exceptions?   
  
     THE PRESIDENT:  No except- — well, let’s see.  Let me think.  Oh,
yeah.  Yeah.  She’ll have an exception.  (The president points at
Secretary Rollins.)  (Laughter.)  
  
     Of course, no exceptions.  You know that.  
  
     Q    Mr. President, can you clarify the Canada/Mexico tariffs.  You
had put that 30-day pause. 

THE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.

Q    You just referred to —  
  
     THE PRESIDENT:  It’s 25 percent.  
  
     Q    Twenty-five percent.  When does it go into effect?  
  
     THE PRESIDENT:  April 2nd.   
  
     Q    April 2nd for Canada and Mexico?  
  
     THE PRESIDENT:  Correct.  And for —  
  
     Q    And for the reciprocal?  
  
     THE PRESIDENT:  — and for everything.   
  
     SECRETARY LUTNICK:  Well, we have the — the — fentanyl-related is a
pause.  If they can prove to the president they’ve done an excellent
job, that’s what they first do in 30 days.  
  
     Q    Have you guys seen any changes?  
  
     SECRETARY LUTNICK:  But then the overall is April 2nd.  So, the big
transaction is April 2nd, but the fentanyl-related things, if they’re
working hard on the border, at the end of that 30 days, they have to
prove to the president that they’ve satisfied him to that regard.  If
they have —  
  
     THE PRESIDENT:  It’s going to be hard to satisfy.  
  
     SECRETARY LUTNICK:  — then we’ll give them a pause or he won’t.   
  
     THE PRESIDENT:  It’s going to be hard to satisfy.  
  
     SECRETARY LUTNICK:  But that’s up to him to see.  
  
     THE PRESIDENT:  We lose 300,000 people a year to fentanyl.  Not
100-, not 95-, not 60-, like you read.  You know, you’ve been reading it
for years.   
  
     We lost, in my opinion, over the last couple of years, on average,
maybe close to 300,000 people dead, and the families are ruined.  You
know, when they lose a daughter, when they lose a son, the families are
never the same.  You’re never going to be the same.  So, you’re talking
about a million people.   
  
     But when the daughters die, I see it — daughters die and the sons
die because of fentanyl.  And in some cases, they don’t even know
they’re taking it.  They — they’re buying something else, and it’s laced
with fentanyl, and they end up dying.  And I’ve known many people who
have lost children to fentanyl and for other reasons, but to fentanyl. 
It’s such a big killer.  And those people are never the same people.   
      
     I mean, I’ve seen people that — for the rest of their lives,
they’re not the same people.  They’re so different, it’s not even
believable.  Dynamic people, happy people that are — they die a
miserable death.  And that’s because of the crap that comes in through
China and through Mexico and through Canada.  A lot of it comes through
Canada.   
  
     The — Canada — look, we support Canada $200 billion a year in
subsidies one way or the other.  We let them make millions of cars.  We
let them send us lumber.  We don’t need their lumber.  We’re going to
free up our lumber.  Lee is going to do — the head of environmental. 
We’re going to free up our lumber.  We have the best lumber there is. 
We don’t need their lumber.  What do we need their lumber for?

  
     When you look at the — we subsidize them $200 billion a year. 
Without us, Canada can’t make it.  You know, Canada relies on us 95
percent.  We rely on them 4 percent.  Big difference.  And I say Canada
should be our 51st state.  There’s no tariffs, no nothing.   
      
     And — and I say that, we give them military protection.  They have
a very small military.  They spend very little money on military.  Or
NATO, they’re just about last in terms of payment, because they say,
“Why should we spend on military?”  That’s a tremendous cost.  Most
nations can’t afford to even think about it.  “Why should we spend on
military?  The United States protects us.”   
  
     And I would say that’s largely true.  We protect Canada.  But it’s
not fair.  It’s not fair that they’re not paying their way.  And if they
had to pay their way, they couldn’t exist.   
  
     When I spoke to — let’s call it the prime minister, rather than the
governor.  (Laughter.)  But when I spoke to him, I said, “Why are we
giving you $200 billion a year?”  He was unable to answer the question. 
I said, “Why are we letting you make millions of cars and send them
in?”  He was unable to answer the question — Justin Trudeau, a nice
guy.  I think he’s a very good guy.  I call him Governor Trudeau.   
  
     He should be governor, because the fact is that if we don’t give
them cars — we don’t have to give them cars.  The c- — tariffs will make
it impossible for them to sell cars into the United States.  The tariffs
will make it impossible to — for them to sell lumber or anything else
into the United States. 

And all I’m asking to do is break even or lose a little bit, but not
lose $200 million.  And we love Canada.  I love Canada.  I love the
people of Canada.  And — but, honestly, it’s not fair for us to be
supporting Canada.  And if we don’t support them, they don’t subsist as
a — as a nation. 

Okay.

Q    Mr. President, when you were talking to Elon —

Q    Mr. President, on the EU tariffs.  Mr. President, have you made a
decision on what level you will seek on tariffs on the European Union?

THE PRESIDENT:  We have made a decision, and we’ll be announcing it very
soon.  And it’ll be 25 percent, generally speaking, and that’ll be on
cars and all other things. 

And European Union is a different case than Canada — different kind of
case.  They’ve really taken advantage of us in a different way.  They
don’t accept our cars.  They don’t accept, essentially, our farm
products.  They use all sorts of reasons why not.  And we accept
everything of them, and we have about a $300 billion deficit with the
European Union. 

Now, I love the countries of Europe.  I guess I’m from there at some
point, a long time ago, right?  (Laughter.)  But indirectly — well,
pretty directly, too, I guess.  But I love the countries of Europe.  I —
I love all countries, frankly.  All different.

But European Union has been — it was formed in order to screw the United
States.  I mean, look, let’s be honest.  The European Union was formed
in order to screw the United States.  That’s the purpose of it, and
they’ve done a good job of it, but now I’m president.

Q    What will happen if these countries or the EU retaliate?

THE PRESIDENT:  They can’t.  I mean, they can try, but they can’t. 

Q    China did.  They imposed tariffs —

Q    They are pledging to, sir.

Q    — that are — went into effect, China’s retaliatory tariffs —

THE PRESIDENT:  That’s right.  That’s right.  But —

Q    — on the — the 10th of February.  Has there been any —

THE PRESIDENT:  That’s right.

Q    — impact that you’ve been able to observe?

THE PRESIDENT:  That’s right.  No, they can do it, and they can try, but
the numbers can never equal what ours, because we can go off.  We are
the pot of gold.  We’re the one that everybody wants.  And they can
retaliate, but it cannot be a successful retaliation, because we just go
cold turkey.  We don’t buy anymore.  And if that happens, we win. 

Q    Are you talking to Erik Prince about privatat- —

THE PRESIDENT:  No.

Q    — privatizing deportations?

THE PRESIDENT:  No, I haven’t.  I haven’t.

Q    Mr. President, you’re in litigation with CBS News.  Is this a case
that you’d like to see go to trial, or are you open a settelm- —

THE PRESIDENT:  With who?

Q    CBS, the — “60 Minutes.”

THE PRESIDENT:  CBS?

Q    Yes.

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, CBS did something that was amazing.  Kamala was
unable to answer a question properly, and they took the question that
they asked, and they inserted an answer.  They gave her an answer.  This
was two days before the election, right before — the Sunday night before
the election.  And they wrote out a — they put her words from another
question that was asked about a half an hour later, and they put that
into the question. 

Nobody’s ever even heard of it before.  Nobody’s ever heard of anything
like this before.  But they then did it, they say, on numerous
occasions.  And the FCC is looking at it very strongly, and everybody’s
looking at it, and I’m — but nobody’s ever seen anything. 

Think of it.  They took her answers, and they changed them.  And I don’t
mean they changed a word or two, or they cut off a half a sentence, or
they cut off a couple of words.  I mean, I’ve had that happen too.  But
that, you — you just say — you know, then they say, “Well, we want
brevity.  You know, we wanted to do it for time.” 

Q    Would — would you encourage —

THE PRESIDENT:  They took out her answer, and they inserted an entirely
different answer that made her sound competent.  And they did this, and
nobody’s ever — I thought I’ve heard of everything when it comes to that
stuff.  No — I’ve never heard of it.  Nobody has ever seen.  So, we
sued, and we are in discussions of settlement. 

Q    What would a number be?  Like a hu- — what — what’s a number that
you would think would be appropriate?

THE PRESIDENT:  I think it’s a lot.  (Laughter.) 

Q    What’s the timeline and process —

THE PRESIDENT:  No, I mean, it — look, it could have — it probably did
affect the election.  I mean, we won by a lot.  As I said, “Too big to
rig.”  But it probably did affect the election.  Yeah, probably could
have won by more, but I could have lost the election because of that. 

It’s — we have to get to honest elections.  We have to go back to paper
ballots.  We have to go back to voter ID.  One-day election, ideally, or
short term, not these 48-day and 61-day elections where boxes are put in
a room, and, “Oh, let’s move the boxes, because we’re putting in a new
air conditioning system.”  Then you see the boxes move, and then you
say, “Well, where are all the boxes?”  You know, —

Q    But would you —

THE PRESIDENT:  “What happened to the boxes that never came back?” 

No, our elections are extremely dishonest.  We’re the only country in
the world that has mail-in voting and all of these different things that
we put in.  Nobody — no other country in the world has it. 

You know, France went to — they had some of the things that we had, and
they went to same-day voting, all paper.  And, you know, paper is very
sophisticated now.  It’s a very sophisticated — it’s a very
sophisticated form of voting right now.  It’s a very safe form of
voting. 

You know, the other thing is for the governors.  I wish the governors
would do it, because the paper ballots will cost 9 percent of the
machines, and they’re 100 percent.  You know, they’re — I don’t —
nothing’s foolproof, but they’re as close as you get.  So, we’ll see
what happens. 

But on the “60 Minute” thing, nobody’s ever seen anything like it. 

Q    And would you link the FCC action to the litigation?  I mean, does
it make se- —

THE PRESIDENT:  I don’t think it’s linked, but probably the lawyers look
at it, you know, because I know it’s going along.  FCC is headed by a
very competent person, and you have some very competent people on the
board, and so I think they’re looking at it very seriously. 

Yeah.

Q    Mr. President —

Q    Sir, of all the deals that you’ve done in your life, all the people
you’ve sat across from and negotiated with, is President Putin distinct
in any way?

THE PRESIDENT:  He’s a very smart guy.  He’s a very cunning person.  But
I’ve dealt with some people that — I’ve dealt with some really bad
people.  But I will tell you, as far as this is concerned, we’ve — you
have to understand, he was — he had no intention, in my opinion, of
settling this war.  I think he wanted the whole thing. 

When I got elected, we spoke, and I think we’re going to have a deal.  I
can’t guarantee you that.  You know, a deal is a deal.  Lots of crazy
things happen in deals, right?  But I think we’re going to have a deal. 

If I didn’t get elected, I believe he would have just continued to go
through Ukraine, and over a period of time, a lot of people — a lot of
people would have been killed.  It would have lasted for a period of
time. 

And the reason that Ukraine — and I give — I have great respect for the
Ukraine as fighters.  They have great fighters.  But without our
equipment, that war would have been over, like people said, in a very
short period of time. 

Q    Is there a timeline (inaudible) — 

THE PRESIDENT:  And if you remember, I gave the Javelins, and the
Javelins are the things that knocked out those tanks right at the
beginning of the war.  They said that — that Obama, at the time, gave
sheets, and Trump gave Javelins.  Well, I was the one that did that. 
But I want to see it come to an end. 

Q    Will he have to make concessions — President Putin?

THE PRESIDENT:  Yeah, he will.  He will.  He’s going to have to.  And —

Q    Can you preview that?

THE PRESIDENT:  And I think — I believe that, because we got elected,
that war will come to an end.  And I also believe, if we didn’t get
elected, if this administration didn’t win the election by a lot, that
that war would go on for a long time, and he would want to take the
whole thing. 

Q    What concessions?  What concessions?

Q    On the — on the —

THE PRESIDENT:  The big question I had is: Does he want to take the
whole thing?  But the reason — and — and the Ukrainians are good
fighters, I have to say, but without the equipment — without our
equipment — we have the best equipment in the world.  We have the best
military equipment in the world.  Without our equipment, that would have
been over very quickly. 

Q    What concessions would you like to see? 

Q    On the (inaudible), sir?  On — on the —

Q    What concessions would you like to see?

THE PRESIDENT:  Oh, I don’t want to tell right now.  But I can tell you
that NATO, you can forget about.  That’s been — I think that’s probably
the reason the whole thing started.  And I think, JD, we can say that. 

What — do you have a statement on that?  You’ve been very much
involved. 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  (Laughs.)

THE PRESIDENT:  I gave him the beauty.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Great.  You gave me the — the hardest question,
sir. 

Q    Concessions from Russia.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  I mean, look, as the president said, we’re not
going to do the negotiation in public with the American media.  He’s
going to do it in private with the president of — of Russia, with the
president of Ukraine, and with other leaders.  And I think that’s how
this has to go. 

I think the — I just want to push back against some of the criticism
I’ve seen in the administration on this, because every single time the
president engages in diplomacy, you guys preemptively accuse him of
conceding to Russia.  He hasn’t conceded anything to anyone.  He’s doing
the job of a diplomat, and he is, of course, the diplomat in chief as
the president of the United States. 

Q    On the gold cards, sir.  Can you talk a little bit more about the
vetting process, you know —

THE PRESIDENT:  They’ll go through a process.  The process is being
worked out right now, and we’re going to be — we’re going to be very
careful. 

Q    And will there be restrictions on, for instance, can Chinese
nationals get one? 

THE PRESIDENT:  No, we’re not going to restrict. 

Q    Can Iranian nationals get —

THE PRESIDENT:  We’re probably not going to be restricting too much in —
in terms of countries, but maybe in terms of individuals.  We want to
make sure we have people that love our country and are capable of loving
the country.

Q    Is there a process, sir —

Q    Mr. President, there is a measles outbreak in Texas at the moment
in which a child is reported to have died.  Do you have concerns about
that?  And have you asked Secretary Kennedy to look into that outbreak? 

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, why don’t we — Bobby, do you want to speak on
that, please?

SECRETARY KENNEDY:  We are following the measles epidemic every day.  I
think there’s 124 people who have contracted measles at this point,
mainly in Gaines County, Texas; mainly, we’re told, in the Mennonite
community. 

There are two people who have died, but the — we’re watching it.  And
there — there are about 20 people hospitalized, mainly for quarantine. 

We’re watching it.  We put out a post on it yesterday, and we’re going
to continue to follow it. 

Q    Mr. President —

SECRETARY KENNEDY:  Inci- — incidentally, there have been four measles
outbreaks this year in this country.  Last year, there were 16.  So,
it’s not unusual.  We have measles outbreaks every year. 

Q    You sound a little under the weather yourself right now.  Are you
all right?

SECRETARY KENNEDY:  I just — I have a permanently bad throat. 

Q    (Inaudible) coughing.

Q    Mr. President, would you — would you send U.S. peacekeepers to just
— to support the — the European peacekeepers?  Would you do any sort of
U.S. —

THE PRESIDENT:  No, we’re going to support Europe, yeah. 

Q    And how would we do that?  How would the United States do that?

THE PRESIDENT:  We’re very friendly with Europe.  We have a great
relationship with Europe.  I mean, you could ask — you could talk about
France.  You could talk about any of them.  Yeah, we have a great
relationship with Europe. 

Q    But how will we — how will the United States do that?  Would there
be boots on —

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, how?  I mean, you’re asking me a question: What
are we doing in the — let’s worry — I hope we have that problem, where
we can worry about peacekeeping.  We got to get there first.

(Secretary Lutnick knocks on the table.)

But I hope we have the problem of worrying about peacekeeping.  That’ll
be the easiest problem, I think, JD, that we’ve ever had.  (Laughter.)

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  I think so, sir.

Q    That would be part of the deal, presumably, that the Ukrainians —

THE PRESIDENT:  We’ll — we’re —

Q    — would want —

THE PRESIDENT:  We’ll do it at the time, but we’ll — peacekeeping is
very easy.  It’s making the deal that’s very tough. 

And, again, nobody was speaking to Russia at all.  And, you know,
probably a million and a half soldiers have been killed — close to a
million and a half soldiers, not to mention a treme- — I will tell you,
the — the thing with that horrible war that should have never started —
it would have never started if I were president, and it didn’t start for
four years, and it was not even thought about starting.  But the thing
with that war is that you’re highly underestimating the number of people
that have been killed.  Far more people have been killed in that war
than you talk about.  You know, you like to talk about numbers, like, a
million people.  Well, they had much more than a million soldiers
killed.

But you have a lot of cities that have been knocked to the ground. 
They’re demolition sites.  Literally, demolition sites.  Every single
building is knocked to the ground, and a lot of people were killed in
those buildings.  And you’ll hear a report, “Two people were minorly
injured” or “just injured a little bit.”  No.  No.  People were killed
by the thousands.

And there are a lot more people killed in that war than the media wants
to talk about, because Biden did a horrible, horrible job.  He should
have prevented that war.  He could have prevented that war. 

Putin would have never gone in.  I’ll tell you one thing: He would have
never gone in.  That war would never have taken place if I were
president. 

Q    I think what people are trying to understand, Mr. President —

Q    Mr. President —

Q    — is how would the United States — what would you be willing to do
to support this European peacekeeping effort?  Would there be —

THE PRESIDENT:  Again, you’re asking me the same question?  (Laughter.)

Q    I’m just trying —

THE PRESIDENT:  How many times do you have to answer it?  You’re talking
about after we make peace.  Let me make peace first. 

Once we make peace, I’ll give you all the answers you want.  But how
many times can you ask the same question?

Q    Mr. President, on the Middle East.  Did you receive —

Q    Is loosening the sanctions on —

THE PRESIDENT:  Yeah, go ahead.  Behind.

Q    Is loosening the sanctions on Russia a potential option as part of
an overall deal?

THE PRESIDENT:  Not now, no.  No.  We have sanctions on Russia.  No, I
want to see if we make a deal first.  But I think we will.  I’ve had
very —

Q    But is it a bargaining chip, I’m asking.

THE PRESIDENT:  I’ve had very good conversations with President Putin. 
I’ve had very good conversations with President Zelenskyy.  And until
four weeks ago, nobody had conversations with anybody.  It wasn’t even a
consideration.  Nobody thought you could make peace.  I think you can. 

Q    Mr. President, just —

Q    But if Mr. Putin gets to keep his —

Q    — just to bring this —

Q    — the land that was claimed by force, if the Russians get to keep
the territory that they — they claimed by force, doesn’t that send a
dangerous message, let’s say, to China about Taiwan?

THE PRESIDENT:  Oh, okay.  You try and take it away, right?  We’re going
to do the best we can.  (Laughter.)  We’re going to do the best we can
to make the best deal we can for both sides.  But for Ukraine, we’re
going to try very hard to make a good deal so that they can get as much
back as possible.  We want to get as much back as possible. 

Q    Mr. President, just to bring this full —

THE PRESIDENT:  And we’ll — we’ll cut it out after maybe this question. 
Go ahead.

Q    To bring this full circle, back to —

THE PRESIDENT:  Unless it’s a bad question, and then we’ll (inaudible). 
(Laughter.)

Q    And back to —

THE PRESIDENT:  You always like to finish on a good one.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  But, sir, they want you to negotiate with them
instead of President Putin.

THE PRESIDENT:  I know.  I know.

Q    Back to the question about the —

THE PRESIDENT:  They want to continue to talk about the peacekeepers. 
(Laughter.)  They’re — you have a lot of confidence in us, because you
assume there’s going to be peace.  You know, it’s possible it doesn’t
work out.  There is possibility. 

     Q    And I had —

     THE PRESIDENT:  But I hope it does, for the sake of humanity,
because if you look at the pictures that I’ve looked at, you don’t want
to look at them.   
  
     Go ahead.

  
     Q    I had a question back on these cuts to the federal workforce. 
You mentioned you — you’re interested in doing another round of this
email.  When would you like to

see that?  What would be the deadline?  And —  
  
     THE PRESIDENT:  I — I’m not — I think —  
  
     Q    — this time, would it be mandatory?  
  
     THE PRESIDENT:  I think Elon — I think Elon wants to.  And I think
it’s a good idea because, you know, those people, as I said before,
they’re on the bubble.  You got a lot of people that have not responded,
so we’re trying to figure out, do they exist?  Who are they?  And it’s
possible that a lot of those people will be actually fired. 

     Q    And —

     THE PRESIDENT:  And if that happened, that’s okay, because that’s
what we’re trying to do.   
  
     This country has gotten bloated and fat and disgusting and
incompetently run. 

     I think we had the worst president in the history of our country. 
He just left office.  I think he’s a disgrace.  What he’s done to our
country by allowing millions of people to come into our country like
that and all of the other things — the inflation, which he caused
because of energy and stupid spending.  To spend hundreds of millions,
trillions and trillions of dollars on the Green New Scam — a total
scam.  I have the best energy people, the best environmental people in
the world around this table, and they — they can’t even believe he got
away with it. 

     And then, in leaving office, to send $20 billion here and $20
million there and $10 million and $5 million, and they couldn’t spend
the money fast enough, and “Let’s get it out before Trump gets in. 
Let’s just get it out to anybody.”  This is a disgrace to our nation.

     And you don’t write the fair thing.  But, look, you know the good
news?  The people see it, and that’s why we won the election by so
much.   
  
     Thank you very much, everybody.  I appreciate it.  Thank you. 
Thank you.   

     Q    Thank you, Mr. President.

     THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Doug.  Pulitzer Prize.

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Sir, how many peacekeepers are you going to
send to — (laughter) —

     THE PRESIDENT:  “What will you do?”  “How will it be?”  (Laughter.)

     SECRETARY LUTNICK:  “How will you address this?”  
  
                                END            12:47 P.M. EST
