---
date: '2025-02-19'
modified_time: 2025-02-20 16:36:38-05:00
published_time: 2025-02-19 16:34:27-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/remarks/2025/02/press-gaggle-by-president-trump-aboard-air-force-one-en-route-joint-base-andrews/
tags: remarks
title: Press Gaggle by President Trump Aboard Air Force One En Route Joint Base Andrews
---
 
9:00 P.M. EST

     THE PRESIDENT:  Hello, everybody.  Hello.

     Q    Hello.

     THE PRESIDENT:  Hello, everybody. 

So, you just saw this.  (The president holds up a USA Today article
entitled “How America voted, which counties shifted toward Trump and a
look at voter turnout.”)  This just came out, and I’d say that’s quite
good.  Right?  By any standard, that’s quite good. 

I shouldn’t leave USA — is anybody here from USA Today?

Q    Yesterday, we had someone from —

THE PRESIDENT:  Yesterday.  We missed him. 

Does everybody know Steven Cheung?  He’s a sweetheart.  You wouldn’t
want to get in a fight with him, right?

Anyway, what’s up?

Q    Mr. President, the TikTok deal, any developments there?

THE PRESIDENT:  No, there’s a lot of people interested in TikTok, and I
think we have a chance of doing something good.  And we’ll be speaking
to China about that also, because they’re a party to it, obviously.  But
it would be great to keep TikTok alive, sell it to somebody that’s going
to do a great job with it.

Q    Did you see the CEO today at the event, sir?

THE PRESIDENT:  Did I what?

Q    Did you see the CEO today at the event?

THE PRESIDENT:  No, I didn’t.  I didn’t speak to him.  Was he there?

Q    He was supposed to be there.

THE PRESIDENT:  I think so, yeah, but I did not see him.

Q    Sir, Elon Musk is proposing potentially giving money to Americans
based on what DOGE is finding.  Do you have any thoughts on that?

THE PRESIDENT:  I love it.  A 20 percent dividend, so to speak, for the
money that we’re saving by going after the waste and fraud and abuse and
all of the other things that are happening.  I think it’s a great idea.

Q    How much money do you think Americans —

THE PRESIDENT:  It could be a lot.  I mean, if it’s 20 percent, we’d
give back a lot of money to the taxpayer.  And also, it’d give an
incentive for the taxpayer to go out and report things to us where we
can save money.

Q    So, you signed an immigration-related executive order today.  Ho- —
what do you think of ICE arrests right now?  Do you think that they need
to increase the number of people they’re arresting —

THE PRESIDENT:  Where?

Q    — increase the — the pace of the ICE arrests?

THE PRESIDENT:  No, I think they’re doing a great job.  You know, you
have people that are hiding.  They are professionals at hiding.  That’s
what they’ve done for a big part of their lives. 

And they’re criminals.  In many cases, very serious criminals, including
murderers.  And, obviously, they’re not easy to capture, but they’re
being captured in record numbers, and they’re being brought out of our
country, being brought back to where they came from.

Q    Mr. President, on Boeing.  You mentioned maybe taking a different
route.  What would a different route entail?

THE PRESIDENT:  On what?

Q    On Boeing, with the Air Force One plane.

THE PRESIDENT:  No, I’m not happy with Boeing.  It takes them a long
time to do —

You know, Air Force One, we gave that contract out a long time ago.  It
was a fixed-price contract, and I’m not happy with the fact that it’s
taking so long.  And we may do something else.  We may go out and buy a
plane or get a plane or something, but I’m not happy with the fact that
it’s taken Boeing so long.  There no excuse for it. 

(Cross-talk.)

And, you know, they had a fixed-price contract.  I made that deal, and
now they — supposedly, they’re losing a lot of money and they’d like to
see if they could, you know, up the price.  But I make fixed-price
deals.  I don’t like time and material deals. 

Q    Sir, the only other commercial aircraft maker that could make a
plane that big is Airbus.  Would you consider buying a —

THE PRESIDENT:  No, I would not consider Airbus over Boeing, no.  But I
could buy one that was used and convert it.  I could buy one from
another country, perhaps, or get one from another country. 

So, we’re looking at other alternatives, because it’s taking Boeing too
long. 

(Cross-talk.)

You know, they were supposed to be finished, like, years ago.

Q    Yeah.

THE PRESIDENT:  Years ago.

Q    Sir, and you —

THE PRESIDENT:  Don’t forget, I signed that contract during my term, and
it was a very good contract.  And I took, like, a billion six off the
price, and it was supposed to be done, you know, quickly, and it’s a
long time.  Right?

Q    Would you push for your preferred color scheme for Air Force One?

THE PRESIDENT:  Oh, no, it’s going to be that color, yeah.  No matter
what, it’s going to be for that color. 

Q    Sir, about Gaza.  Do you e- — do you find the Egyptian proposal to
redevelop Gaza acceptable?  And does that change your —

THE PRESIDENT:  I haven’t seen it.  I haven’t seen it.  When I see it,
I’ll let you know.

Q    Sir, can I you about Ukraine?

THE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.

Q    You — you said today that you had a deal on critical minerals, and
Ukraine broke it.

THE PRESIDENT:  Yeah, we had a deal where we were going to get — look,
you have to understand, Europe is being paid back the money that they
put up, and they’re only putting up a fraction of what we’re putting
up.  I think they’re in for $100 billion, and we’re in for $350
billion.  There’s no reason that should have happened.  It’s Biden’s
fault.  He shouldn’t have allowed that to happen. 

But on top of it all, they’re getting their $100 billion back, and we’re
not.  And I’ve been talking about this for two years.  I said, “You have
to loan them the money so that if things work out, they’re going to pay
you back.”  And they didn’t do that.  So, Biden didn’t do it.  It’s his
fault.  Nobody has ever seen anything so stupid. 

So, Europe gets their money back, and they’re only in for a small
fraction.  And, obviously, everything is important, but it’s more
important for them because they’re right next to Russia.  So, it’s more
important than — we have an ocean in between us.  So, it’s obviously
more important to the European countries than it is to the U.S.

(Cross-talk.)

But here’s the thing, we don’t get our money back.  And we told them
that the deal is we’ll do something for the rare earth and some oil, et
cetera, et cetera, and that would be all right.  And they agreed to it,
more or less. 

And then Scott Bessent actually went there and was treated rather
rudely, because — essentially, they told him no, and Zelenskyy was
sleeping and unavailable to meet him.  He traveled many hours on the
train, which is a dangerous trip.  And we’re talking about the secretary
of the Treasury.  He went there to get a document signed.  And when he
got there, he came back empty.  They wouldn’t sign the document. 

But for Europe, they pay back their money.  It’s a loan.  Think of
that.  And we should’ve had a loan, too, but we had an administration
that was incompetent.

Q    Can you resurrect that deal?  Is there anything that you can do?

THE PRESIDENT:  Yeah, I think I’m going to resurrect it, or, you know,
we’ll see what happens.  But I’m going to resurrect it, or things are
not going to make him too happy. 

And, look, it’s time for elections.  They haven’t had an election in a
long time.  It’s wonderful to say, “You know, we can’t have an
election.”  But it’s time for elections.

And it’s also time to find out what happened with all the money, because
he made the statement that half of it he doesn’t know where it is or
something like that.  And I’d like to find out: All the money that we’ve
been sending to Ukraine, where is it?

And I can tell you we’re doing very well with Russia.  We’re going to do
something with Russia that he was unable to do.  We can make a deal with
Russia to stop the killing of, you know, potentially additional millions
of people.  The soldiers are being just wiped out on both sides.  Wiped
out.  It’s horrible. 

You know, the weaponry today is so powerful, so, you know, strong that
it’s killing a lot of soldiers.  And I don’t want to sol- — they’re
Russian and they’re Ukrainian.  I don’t want to see those soldiers
killed.  They have mothers and fathers.  They have sisters and
brothers.  I don’t want to see them killed.

Q    Mr. President, on tariffs, you mentioned lumber.  That’s something
that I don’t believe we’ve heard before.  Any specific —

THE PRESIDENT:  Lumber, yeah.  Forest — forest product, yeah. 

Q    And do you have a rate in mind for that?

THE PRESIDENT:  No, but we’re thinking about maybe 25 percent.

Q    And would that also be April 2nd?  On or before April 2nd?

THE PRESIDENT:  In that vicinity, yeah.  A little bit later.

Q    And also, which car companies did you — you said that you spoke
with some car companies.

THE PRESIDENT:  I spoke to all car companies.  Everybody is coming back
into America.

Q    So, these are foreign car companies?

THE PRESIDENT:  Including foreign companies, yeah.  They’re going to be
coming in, because they don’t want to pay the tariffs. 

Q    You said you’ll be having lunch with some Democrats next week.

THE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.

Q    Can you elaborate on who that is and what you all plan to discuss?

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, you’ll see when I do it, but some good ones.

     Q    Are you —

     THE PRESIDENT:  Some biggies. 

Q    Are you con- — are you concerned about congressional funding?

THE PRESIDENT:  No, I’m just —

Q    Is that on the table?

THE PRESIDENT:  I think we’re going to just talk. 

I think it would be great if Republicans and Democrats could get along. 
It’s time.  It’s time.  It makes sense.

Q    Sir, would you say you trust the Russians to negotiate in good
faith going forward?  Do you trust them?

THE PRESIDENT:  I do.  I think the Russians want to see the war end. 
And I do.  I really do.  But I think they have the cards a little bit,
because, you know, they’re — they’ve taken a lot of territory, so they
have the cards. 

Q    Mr. President, have you set a date for the British prime minister’s
visit to Washington?

THE PRESIDENT:  No.  He’ll be coming soon, though.  He has asked to come
and see me.  So, he’ll be coming.

Q    What about Macron?

THE PRESIDENT:  And president of France also.  Macron will be coming.

Q    But no set dates yet?

THE PRESIDENT:  Very soon.  Maybe Monday.

Q    Mr. President, on congestion pricing.  So — they’re going to be —
it’s supposed to have saved about — or raised about $15 billion to help
the MTA.  Do you have an alternative way that — to fund the MTA system
now that there won’t be cong- —

THE PRESIDENT:  No, that’s up to New York.  They have to do that. 

Look, New York has treated a lot of people very badly.  And it’s hard to
— you know, it’s hard to feel sorry for what’s happened in New York. 
It’s sad to see the way they’ve treated people, and they continue to do
it. 

And, you know, look at what’s going on with the mayor.  Look at what’s
going on with so many other things.  So, congestion pricing is not a
good situation, and they’re treating the people of New York very badly. 

That’s a — supposing you worked in a shoe shop or you worked in a
restaurant as a waiter, and you have to come into Manhattan, and they’re
taking, you know, many, many dollars out of your pocket.  You can’t
afford to do it. 

And price — you know, you — if you take a look, traffic will go down
because people aren’t going to come.  If people don’t come, that means
the whole place is — it’s going to be a disaster. 

So, it could be, and it’s probably going to show that.  Traffic will
come down, but that means they’re not going to spend their money in New
York.  They’ll go someplace else.

Q    (Inaudible) prepared to go to court if lawsuits ensue?

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, we’ll see what happens.  You could give me the
final, because I haven’t seen it as of late today because I was making a
speech. 

Did I make a good speech?  Yes. 

Okay.  Go ahead.  What else?

Q    Can I ask you about the Chinese?  So, you know, eventually, you
would like to meet with President Xi.

THE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.

Q    But we heard —

THE PRESIDENT:  I have very good relationship with President Xi.  I
think a great relationship with President Xi.  But remember, he loves
China, and I love the USA.  So, you know, right there, there’s a little
bit of competitiveness.  But the relationship I have with President Xi
is, I would say, a great one. 

Q    We heard that you —

THE PRESIDENT:  It was obviously hurt by COVID coming in.  It hurt them,
hurt us, hurt everybody.  Hurt the whole world.  But outside of that, I
have a very, very good relationship with President Xi.

Q    Are you looking to make a new trade deal?

THE PRESIDENT:  I think he’s — I think he’s — I think he’s a very unique
person.

Q    Would you make a new trade deal with China?  I mean, you know, the
—

THE PRESIDENT:  Yeah, it’s possible.

Q    One trade deal never really got —

THE PRESIDENT:  It’s possible. 

Well, we did a great trade deal with China.  We did it — great for the
farmers, great for manufacturers.  They had to buy 50 billion dollars’
worth of our product, and we were making them buy it.  The problem is
that Biden didn’t push them to adhere to it. 

Q    Sir, do you think D.C. should govern itself, or do you think that
governing of District of Columbia should go back to Congress? 

THE PRESIDENT:  I think that we should govern District of Columbia. 
It’s so important, the D.C. situation.  I think that we should run it
strong, run it with law and order, make it absolutely flawlessly
beautiful. 

And I think we should take over Washington, D.C.  Make it safe.  People
are getting killed.  People are being hurt.  You have great police
department there, but, somehow, they’re not utilized properly. 

We should govern D.C.  I think the federal government should take over
the governance of D.C. and run it really, really properly. 

And I like the mayor.  I get along great with the mayor, but they’re not
doing the job.  Too much crime.  Too much graffiti.  Too many tents on
the lawns of these magnificent lawns, and there’s tents.  And, you know,
it’s a — it’s a sad thing.  You know, homeless people all over the
place, and we got to take care of the homeless.  But you can’t have that
in Washington, D.C.

You know, when they come over to see me — like Macron is coming and the
prime minister of UK is coming and all these people are coming over to
see me — we’ll have, ultimately, President Xi, and we’ll have everybody
coming, right?  And you can’t let that be.  You just can’t let that
happen.  You can’t have tents all over your beautiful — your once
magnificent plazas and lawns and all of it.  You just can’t do it.

(Cross-talk.)

MR. CHEUNG:  We’ll do — we’ll do a couple more.

Q    Sir, do you think you can still pay for extending your tax cuts
without cutting both Medicaid and Medicare?

THE PRESIDENT:  Yeah, absolutely.

Q    House Republicans are planning to make cuts to Med- —

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, I think we’re going to take in tremendous tariff
money, number one.  And number two, you take a look at DOGE, and you see
what’s happening.  We’re saving billions of dollars.

Q    On DOGE.  Do you know what they’re looking at, specifically, at the
Department of Defense right now?  And —

THE PRESIDENT:  Yeah, they’re looking at everything.

Q    And are they going to cut more national security —

THE PRESIDENT:  They’re looking — and we’re going to go into Fort Knox
to make sure the gold is there. 

Q    Are they going to cut more —

THE PRESIDENT:  Do you know that?  We’re going to go into Fort Knox.  Do
you know about that?

Q    Sir — sir —

(Air Force One experiences turbulence.)

THE PRESIDENT:  That was a bad bump.

Q    Are they going to eliminate more national security positions,
civilians there at DOD?

THE PRESIDENT:  We’ll see what happens.

But one of the things — we do want to look.  I mean, we hope
everything’s fine with Fort Knox, but we’re going to go to Fort Knox —
the fabled Fort Knox — to make sure the gold is there. 

Q    Where would the gold have gone?

THE PRESIDENT:  If the gold isn’t there, we’re going to be very upset.

Q    Can you bring us along?

Q    You haven’t brought up Greenland in a — in a while.  Are you seeing
—

THE PRESIDENT:  No, no, very — we need Greenland from the standpoint of
national security and international security.  We have to do something
with Greenland.  We have to protect Greenland.  But we need it for
national security, and we need it, maybe more importantly, for
international security.

(Cross-talk.)

MR. CHEUNG:  All right, we’ll just do one more.  One more.

Q    Can I just follow up?  Are you seeing it as part of any of the
discussions you’re having with Europeans and Putin in some sort of peace
deal?

THE PRESIDENT:  No, no.  We have to have Greenland because of the
national security picture, even more so now than it would have been 20
years ago, 30 years ago, when they talked about it then too. 

You know, they used to talk about it.  Years ago, they were talking
about Greenland, but much more so now with, you know, modern weaponry,
planes and the speed of planes, and all of the things.  So, we have to
have Greenland. 

Thank you very much. 

END                  9:14 P.M. EST
