---
date: '2025-02-13'
modified_time: 2025-02-15 10:21:38-05:00
published_time: 2025-02-13 10:20:34-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/remarks/2025/02/remarks-by-president-trump-and-prime-minister-narendra-modi-of-the-republic-of-india-in-joint-press-conference/
tags: remarks
title: Remarks by President Trump and Prime Minister Narendra Modi of the Republic
  of India in Joint Press Conference
---
 
THE WHITE HOUSE

Office of Communications

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

REMARKS BY PRESIDENT TRUMP AND PRIME MINISTER NARENDRA MODI OF THE
REPUBLIC OF INDIA IN JOINT PRESS CONFERENCE

East Room  
  
(February 13, 2025)

     6:04 P.M. EST

     PRESIDENT TRUMP:  Thank you very much.  Thank you very much. 
Please.  Great honor.

     I’m thrilled to welcome the Prime Minister of India, my friend,
Narendra Modi back to the White House.  We spent a lot of time here and
a lot of time in India, and he’s a very special man. 

     Prime Minister, it is a pleasure to extend to you the same
hospitality that you showed Melania and myself when we traveled to your
beautiful country five years ago.  It’s hard to believe so long ago, and
it seemed like yesterday.  It was beautiful.  We opened the cricket
stadium — 129,000 seats, I think the largest stadium in the world, and
it was an incredible period of time. 

     There is truly a special bond between the United States and India
and the world’s oldest democracy and the world’s largest democracy and,
I believe, the world’s largest country, in terms of the numbers of
people.  And today, the prime minister and I are announcing a framework
to strengthen those ties even further economically, and the U.S.-India
compact for the 21st century is a historic initiative that will deepen
every aspect of our partnership and our friendship. 

     Starting this year, we’ll be increasing military sales to India by
many billions of dollars.  We’re also paving the way to ultimately
provide India with the F-35 stealth fighters. 

     In 2017, my administration revived and reinvigorated the Quad
security partnership.  In our meeting today, the prime minister and I
reaffirmed that strong cooperation among the United States, India,
Australia, and Japan, and it’s crucial really to maintaining peace and
prosperity, tranquility even, in the Indo-Pacific. 

     In addition, the United States and India will be working together
like never before to confront the threat of radical Islamic terrorism, a
threat all over the world actually.

     Today, I’m pleased to announce that my administration has approved
the extradition of one of the plotters and one of the very evil people
of the world and having to do with the horrific 2008 Mumbai terrorist
attack to face justice in India.  So, he’s going to be going back to
India to face justice. 

     As we deepen our defense partnership, we’ll also strengthen our
economic ties and bring greater fairness and reciprocity to our trading
relationship.

     As a signal of good faith, Prime Minister Modi recently announced
the reductions to India’s unfair, very strong tariffs that limit U.S.
access into the Indian market very strongly.  And really, it’s big
problem, I must say.  India imposes a 30 to 40 to 60 and even 70 percent
tariff on so many of the goods and, in some cases, far more than that. 

     As an example, a 70 percent tariff on U.S. cars going into India,
which makes it pretty much impossible to sell those cars. 

     Today, the U.S. trade deficit with India is almost $100 billion,
and Prime Minister Modi and I have agreed that we’ll begin negotiations
to address the long-running disparities that should have been taken care
of over the last four years — but they didn’t do that — in the
U.S.-India trading relationship, with the goal of signing an agreement. 
And we want — really, we want a certain level playing field, which we
really think we’re entitled to, and he does also, in fairness, so we’re
going to work on that very hard.  And we can make up the difference very
easily with the deficit with the sale of oil and gas and LNG, of which
we have more than anybody in the world. 

     The prime minister and I also reached an important agreement on
energy that will restore the United States as a leading supplier of oil
and gas to India.  It will be, hopefully, their number-one supplier in
the groundbreaking development for U.S. nuclear industry.  India is also
reforming its laws to welcome U.S. nuclear technology, which is at the
highest level, into the Indian market.  This will bring safe, clean, and
affordable electricity to millions of Indians and tens of billions of
dollars to the U.S.-civilian nuclear industry in India.

     And under the framework we are announcing today, the United States
and India are also joining forces to ensure that artificial intelligence
and other advanced technologies are developed by the two of the most —
really, two of the most advanced nations, intellectually and otherwise
technologically, anywhere in the world.  There’s nobody very much
closer.  We have an incredible relationship there.  And this is where it
seems to be heading. 

     And artificial intelligence — complex — a very complex subject, but
it seems to be where people want to be and they want to go, and we’re
leading right now by a lot, but other people will try to catch us.  I
don’t know if they’re going to be able to.  We’re going to make it
available.  We’re going to make tremendous amounts of electricity
available, and we’re going to let the people that are buying the
electricity make their own electric plants — electric generation plants,
and we’ve never done this in our country, but we’re going to get it done
very quickly. 

     Lee Zeldin and his group are going to get the approvals in very
rapid form.  And we’re calling it a “national emergency,” and that’s
exactly what it is.  So, we’re going to be — we’re going to remain at
the top of the AI or artificial intelligence, I think, for a long time
to come, and we’re going to be working very closely with India and other
countries on that.  But right now, we’re the leader by quite a bit. 

     Finally, we agreed to work together to help build one of the
greatest trade routes in all of history.  It will run from India to
Israel to Italy and onward to the United States, connecting our partners
by ports, railways, and undersea cables — many, many undersea cables. 
It’s a big development.  It’s a lot of money going to be spent, and
we’ve already spent some, but we’re going to be spending a lot more in
order to stay advanced and stay the leader. 

     I’m pleased to report that with today’s announcements, the
friendship between the United States and India is the strongest I
believe it’s ever been.  I think our relationship is the best it’s ever
been between two leaders of the two countries, and it’s an honor to say
that. 

     I’d like to now invite the prime minister to say a few words, and
then we’ll take some questions.  And we appreciate you all being here. 
Thank you very much.  Thank you very much.  (Applause.) 

     PRIME MINISTER MODI:  (As interpreted.)  Your Excellency President
Trump, delegates of both countries, friends from the media: *Namashkar*.

     I would like to first of all express my heartfelt gratitude to my
dear friend President Trump for the grand welcome and hospitality
accorded to me.  President Trump’s leadership has been instrumental in
nurturing India-U.S. ties and making them vibrant. 

     I could feel today the same enthusiasm, the same — the same
enthusiasm, the same energy, the same commitment that we had worked with
during our first term. 

     Our discussions today highlighted our pride in our accomplishments
during his first term, the deep mutual trust that we share, and also the
resolve to attain new goals.  We also agreed that the partnership and
cooperation between India and the U.S. can shape a better world. 

     Friends, the people of America are aware of President Trump’s
motto, “Make America Great Again,” or “MAGA.”  The people are well aware
of it.  The people of India too are focusing on both heritage and
development as they move forward at a fast pace and with a firm resolve
to ensure a developed India by 2047.  If I were to say this, borrowing
an expression from America, our vision for a developed India is to “Make
India Great Again,” or “MIGA.” 

     When America and India work together, that is when MAGA — when it’s
MAGA plus MIGA, it becomes mega — a mega partnership for prosperity. 
(Applause.)  And it is this mega spirit that gives new scale and scope
to our objectives. 

     Friends, today, we have also set ourselves the target of more than
doubling our bilateral trade to attain $500 billion by 2030.  Our teams
will work on concluding very soon a mutually beneficial trade
agreement. 

     In order to ensure India’s energy security, we will focus on trade
in oil and gas.  Investment in energy infrastructure will also
increase.  In the area of nuclear energy, we also discussed increasing
cooperation on small modular reactors.

     Friends, America plays an important role in India’s defense
preparedness.  As strategic and trusted partners, we are moving forward
actively towards joint development, joint production, and transfer of
technology. 

     In the times to come as well, new technologies and equipment will
enhance our capacities.   
  
     We have decided to launch the autonomous systems industry alliance
and a defense cooperation framework for the next decade will be
prepared.  Defense interoperability, logistics, repair, and maintenance
will also be its key components. 

     Friends, the 21st century is a technology-driven century.  Close
cooperation in the area of technology between countries that believe in
democratic values can give new direction, strength, and opportunities to
the entire humanity.  India and the U.S. will jointly work in areas of
artificial intelligence, semiconductors, quantum, biotechnology, and
several other technologies. 

     Today, we also agreed on TRUST, which stands for Transforming
Relationships Utilizing Strategic Technology.  Under this, our focus
will be on establishing strong supply chains for critical minerals,
advanced materials, and pharmaceuticals. 

     We have also decided to launch a recovery and processing initiative
for strategic minerals like lithium and rare earths. 

     We have had close cooperation with the U.S. in the area of space. 
The NISAR satellite developed with mutual cooperation between Israel and
NASA will soon be flying into space on an Indian launch vehicle. 

     Friends, partnership between India and the U.S. strengthens
democracy and strengthens democratic values and systems.  We will work
together to enhance peace, stability, and prosperity in the
Indo-Pacific.  The Quad will play a special role in this.  During the
Quad summit scheduled to be held in India this year, we will expand
cooperation in new areas with our partner countries.  Under the IMEEC
and I2U2, we will work together for the development of economic
corridors.

     And in the area of connectivity, India and U.S. will stand strongly
together in the fight against terrorism.  We agree that in order to
eliminate cross-border terrorism, we need concrete actions, and I’m very
grateful to President Trump that he — in 2008, somebody who carried out
genocide in India, that criminal is now going to be handed over to
India, and I’m grateful to President Trump for this, and appropriate
action will be taken in the courts in India. 

     Friends, the Indian community living in the U.S. is an important
link in our relations.  In order to further deepen our people-to-people
ties, India will soon open new consulates in Los Angeles and Boston. 
These will be new consulates. 

     We have invited American universities and educational institutes to
open their offshore campuses in India. 

     President Trump, I am grateful to you for your friendship and
strong commitment towards India.  The people of India still fondly
remember your visit in 2020 and hope that President Trump will come and
visit them again.  On behalf of 1.4 billion Indians, I invite you to
visit India. 

     Thank you.  Thank you very much.  (Applause.)

     PRESIDENT TRUMP:  Thank you.  Thank you very much.  Great job.

     PRIME MINISTER MODI:  Thank you.  Thank you. 

     PRESIDENT TRUMP:  Beautiful.

     Okay, thank you very much.  That was excellent. 

     We’ll do a few questions, please. 

     Q    Mr. President —

     PRESIDENT TRUMP:  Please, go ahead.  Please, go ahead.  Yeah. 
Yeah, blue shirt.

     Q    Me?

     Q    Thank you, Mr. President.  People in India will naturally
welcome your decision to extradite Tahawwur Rana to India back home.  In
that context, I would like to ask you a question about — in last few
years, we have seen several groups in the U.S. been raising anti-India
voice, calling about separation — terrorism activities in India.  Do you
think that should continue here in the U.S. as well?

     PRESIDENT TRUMP:  You’re going to have to go louder.

     Q    Mr. President, people in India would be welcoming your
decision to extradite Tahawwur Rana to India —

     PRESIDENT TRUMP:  Yeah, I can’t understand —

     Q    Okay.

     PRESIDENT TRUMP:  — a word he’s saying.  It’s not the — it’s the
accent.  It’s a little bit tough for me. 

     Q    But can I try again?

     PRESIDENT TRUMP:  How about — how about you.  Please.  Go ahead,
back there.  

     Q    Thank you.  Thank you very much. 

     Q    Mr. President, thank you.  First, I want to ask the prime
minister a question.  You and the president — you both spoke about
combating ISIS.  You — you both sounded very exciting about this —
excited about this partnership upcoming, and I — I was curious, how much
more confident are you with President Trump leading this country that
there will be peace through strength and you will have a suc- —
successful partnership with the United States, versus with Biden’s
incompetence and weakness over the last four years?

     PRESIDENT TRUMP:  (Laughs.)  (Laughter.)  That’s your question, but
I’ll answer it.  I agree with you.  (Laughter.)  Yeah, gross
incompetence. 

     We’re going to have a fantastic relationship.  And it has been like
the whole world has been set back over the last four years by the
weakness of the United States, the weak leadership of the United States,
but I think we’ve taken care of it in just three weeks.  It seems to me
that even some of the media that we wouldn’t prefer has been writing
that this is a much different country right now, that the world has a
light over it — not only our country, but the whole world. 

     The prime minister told me that before too.  Even over India, the
world has a light.  They need the United States to be strong and
powerful but good, and I think that’s happened.  And I think it’s
happened in a very short period of time.

     But I will tell you, we’re going to have a fantastic relationship,
and it will make both countries much stronger.

     (Cross-talk.)

     All right?   
  
     Yes, go ahead, please. 

     Q    Geeta Mohan from India today, sir.  I’ll just take my
colleague Lalit Jha’s question forward, because you couldn’t underst- —

     PRESIDENT TRUMP:  Okay.  Fine. 

     Q    The question is about the fact that you’ve decided to
extradite Tahawwur Rana.  Thank you so much.  India has been waiting to
— to have him back in India to bring him to justice. 

     But there are many other elements in the United States of America,
particularly Khalistani separates who’ve been working against Indian
interests.  How is the United States of America going to cooperate on
that front with India?  There are — there have been allegations that
have been leveled against Indian agencies by the Biden administration. 
Are you going to relook that with Tulsi Gabbard as DNI now?

     PRESIDENT TRUMP:  Well, I don’t think India had a very good
relationship with the Biden administration.  Biden — they wouldn’t sell
them oil and gas, which is rather hard to believe, because, you know,
it’s a good thing to do.  And a lot of things happened that weren’t very
appropriate, I thought, between India and the administration — the Biden
administration. 

     But as you said, we’re giving a very violent man — it seems to me —
I mean, I don’t know that he’s been convicted yet or will be, but let’s
assume he’s a pretty violent person — we’re giving him back to India
immediately.  And there are more to follow, because we have quite a few
requests. 

     So, we work with India on crime, and we want to make it good for
India, and it’s very important.  So, that kind of a relationship is very
important to us. 

     Okay?

     (Cross-talk.)

     Go ahead, please.

     Q    Thank you.

     PRESIDENT TRUMP:  Go ahead.

     Q    Thank you.  Mr. President, you’ve repeatedly called India a
big abuser of trade and said it is really difficult to do business in
India because of tariffs.  You announced reciprocal tariffs today.  I am
hoping you can speak about what kind of reciprocal tariffs India can
expect.  Are you willing to make any concessions, and how can India head
off these tariffs?

     I also have one for the prime minister.

     PRESIDENT TRUMP:  Sure. 

     Well, India has been, to us, just about the highest tariffed nation
anywhere in the world.  They’ve been very strong on tariffs, and I don’t
blame them, necessarily, but it’s a different way of doing business. 
It’s very hard to sell into India because they have trade barriers, very
strong tariffs. 

     We are right now a reciprocal nation.  We are going to — if it’s
India or if it’s somebody else with low tariffs, we’re going to have the
same.  We’re going to have whatever India charges, we’re charging them. 
Whatever another country charges, we’re charging them.  So, it’s called
reciprocal, which I think is a very fair way.  We didn’t have that. 

     I was going to do that in my other term, and we had the greatest
economy ever in the world.  There’s never been an economy like we had,
and then we got hit with COVID.  We had a focus on that, and I wasn’t
really in the mood to be putting it on Italy and Spain and France and
India, frankly, and a lot of other countries, because the world was very
troubled until we got rid of that nightmare. 

     But we had the strongest economy anywhere in the world during that
fairly long period of time during my first term, as you know, and we
didn’t do the tariffs.  We would have done the reciprocal tariffs, but
we decided — and I decided, I think, on a human basis — on a humane
basis not to do them because of the fact that there was such suffering
all over the world.  The last thing we needed to talk about is trade
problems. 

     But now we’re doing — we see a tremendous future for our country. 
But we felt that now it’s finally time, after 45 or 50 years of abuse,
that we will do — and this isn’t India, this is among a lot of nations. 

     The European Union is very difficult for us — very, very
difficult.  They tax our companies at levels that nobody’s ever seen
before.  They take advantage of a lot of things.  So, we’re not happy
about that. 

     China, of course, is terrible, and we’ve never taken in 10 cents
until I was president.  We’ve taken in hundreds of billions of dollars
from China since I’ve been president — in first term and now — and we
have to do that just as a mechanism of fairness, and that’s what I’ve
done. 

     And so, we are being reciprocal with India.  Whatever India
charges, we charge them.  So, frankly, it no longer matters to us that
much what they charge, because whatever they charge — I had discussions
with India in the first term about the fact that their tariffs were very
high, and I was unable to get a concession.  So, we’re just going to do
it the easy way, and we’re just going to say, “Whatever you charge, we
charge.”  And I think that’s fair for the people of the United States,
and I think it’s actually fair for India. 

     Okay?

     Q    Are you willing to make any concessions, sir?  Are you willing
to make any concessions, sir?  Any concessions?

     PRESIDENT TRUMP:  Go ahead, please.  Ask to the prime minister,
please. 

     Q    A question for the prime minister, please.

     PRESIDENT TRUMP:  Ask to the prime minister, please.

Q    Yes, sorry.  Yoshita Singh with Press Trust of India.  Prime
Minist- — thank you, Mr. President.

Prime Minister, the U.S. is giving a lot of push to curb illegal
immigration, and India has been cooperating on this issue.  How does
India see this issue in the larger context?  Thank you. 

PRIME MINISTER MODI:  (As interpreted.)  I don’t think this is a
question that is about India only, but, even globally, you can talk
about this issue.  And we are of the opinion that anybody who enters
another country illegally, they — they have absolutely no right to be in
that country. 

And as far as India and the U.S. is concerned, we have always been of
the same opinion, and that is that any verified Indian who is in the
U.S. illegally, we are fully prepared to take them back to India. 
However, it doesn’t stop there. 

These are children of very ordinary families, and they are lured by big
dreams and big promises.  A lot of them are brought in without them
knowing about why they are going to a country.  And, in fact, they are
connected with a human trafficking system, and we have to make sure that
we fight against this system. 

As far as the U.S. and India is concerned, I think what we should do is
make efforts to make sure that we uproot these from within the system so
that we can reduce or remove human trafficking.  And basically, the
young, vulnerable, poor people of India are fooled into coming over as
illegal immigrants, and our bigger fight, actually, is against this
ecosystem or this system that encourages such gangs to thrive.  And I
can tell you that India will completely support your endeavor in
achieving this. 

(Cross-talk.)

PRESIDENT TRUMP:  Yes.

Q    Thank you.  Thank you, Mr. President.  A question for Prime
Minister Modi first, if I may.  I wanted to ask you: Did you discuss any
possible business deals with Elon Musk during your — your meetings
today, Mr. Prime Minister?

And, Mr. President, I wanted to ask you: Today, you spoke about hoping
to have three-way talks with President Xi and President Putin.  What
would you say to European leaders and other allies who may be concerned
that you’re apparently more keen to speak to America’s adversaries than
to its allies?   Thank you. 

PRESIDENT TRUMP:  Well, maybe I’ll just go and — first on this one.  We
had some talks, and we told the European Union, we told the NATO people
— largely, they overlap — “You have to pay more money because it’s
unfair what we’re doing.  We’re doing a tremendous amount more.”  We’re
probably $200 billion more going into Ukraine, using for Ukraine to
fight, and Europe has not really carried its weight in terms of the
money.  It’s not equitable, and we want to see a counterbalance.  We
want to have them put up more money.  They have to do that.

At the same time, we had a very good conversation with President Putin
the other day — yesterday.  And we also had a very good conversation — I
did, both — in both cases — with President Zelenskyy.  And I think we’re
going to be able to do something.  I think we’re going to be able to
make a deal, and I hope so, because it’s a horrible war.  It’s a very
terrible, bloody war with a million and a half soldiers, at least,
already dead on the battlefield, lying all over the fields like — nobody
has ever seen anything like it since — certainly since the Second World
War. 

And so, I think we’re going to be able to do something.  We’re working
with President Zelenskyy and with President Putin, and my impression is
that they — I know that President Zelenskyy wants to make a deal, and I
also feel that — I know that President Putin wants to make a deal.  I
wanted to know that before I began any detailed discussions. 

But the meeting and the — the conversation — also, the meeting with
Steve Witkoff in Moscow was a very successful one, and my phone call
with him was a very successful one. 

Please. 

PRIME MINISTER MODI:  (As interpreted.)  You asked a question regarding
Elon Musk.  I have known him for a very long time.  I was not even prime
minister at the time when I first met him; I was chief minister.  And
today he came to meet me along with all his family, with his children. 
And so, we had a nice discussion. 

As far as the EV is concerned — EVs are concerned, the EV — the word
“EV” has a copyright.  And that is one person who has a copyright for
the word “EV,” and that is Trump. 

(Cross-talk.)

PRESIDENT TRUMP:  Thank you.  That was very nice.

Go ahead, please.

Q    Thank you, Mr. President.  Can I ask whether you discussed at all
today the case of Gautam Adani, who’s one of the weal- — the wealthiest
men in Asia and perceived as an ally of Prime Minister Modi? 

Prime Minister Modi, have you asked the president to take action on that
case?  Thank you. 

PRIME MINISTER MODI:  (As interpreted.)  Firstly, India is a democratic
country, and our culture and our thought philosophy is *Vasudhaiva
Kutumbakam*, which basically means that the entire world is a family. 
Every Indian is my own family member.  And when it comes to such
personal matters, two cou- — leaders of two countries will not get
together on that topic and discuss anything on an individual matter. 

(Cross-talk.)

PRESIDENT TRUMP:  Go ahead.  Please.  Yeah.  Please.

Q    Which one?

PRESIDENT TRUMP:   Sir, go ahead, please. 

Q    Yeah.  Thank you, Mr. President.  Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister.  I
have a question for you as well. 

But, Mr. President, you have suggested — with regards to the
Russia-Ukraine war, you’ve suggested several things that Ukraine should
give up: the idea of NATO membership, territory that was seized back in
2014 by Russia.  What should Russia give up?

PRESIDENT TRUMP:  Russia has gotten themselves into something that I
think they wish they didn’t.  If I were president, it would not have
happened — absolutely would not have happened, and it didn’t happen for
four years. 

If you look at what has taken place, under President Bush, they lost a
lot.  Under President Obama, they lost Crimea.  Under Biden, it looks
like they could lose the whole thing.  Under Trump, they lost nothing —
Ukraine lost nothing.  They didn’t give up anything.  And you take a
look at the other three presidents surrounding me, they gave up a lot. 

I think that when you look at Ukraine and when you look at the mess that
they’re in, it’s got to be ended, and it’s got to be stopped. 

Now, Russia has taken over a pretty big chunk of territory, and they
also have said from day one — long before President Putin, they’ve said
they cannot have Ukraine be in NATO.  They said that very strongly. 

I actually think that that was the thing that caused the start of the
war.  And Biden said it, and Zelenskyy said it, and I think that was one
of the reasons — one of the starts of the war. 

But from long before Putin, they said you cannot have Ukraine going in,
in any way, into NATO.  And I start from that standpoint.  I think
everybody knew that. 

Now, if a better deal can be negotiated, if they were able to make a
deal where they can do that, that’s fine with me.  I really don’t care. 
I want that bloodshed to stop.  I don’t want to see — you know, we have
an ocean between us and the site we’re talking about — the site of
death.  We’re calling it the fields of death.  We have a big ocean in
between us.  This is more important for Europe.  We shouldn’t be in —
they have to equalize, and they’re going to have to do it fast, but they
have to equalize. 

But as far as the negotiation, it’s too early to say what’s going to
happen.  Maybe Russia will give up a lot, maybe they won’t, and it’s all
dependent on what is going to happen.  The negotiation really hasn’t
started. 

But I will say, as far as NATO is concerned, from many years before
President Putin, I will tell you that I’ve heard that Russia would never
accept that, and I think Ukraine knew that, because Ukraine wasn’t in
and never requested to be in until more recently.  So, that’s the way it
is, and I think that’s the way it’s going to have to be. 

(Cross-talk.)

Q    But, Mr. President — Mr. President, I —

PRESIDENT TRUMP:  Go ahead, please.  All right.  Go ahead, please, with
the tie. 

(Cross-talk.)

With the tie, yeah. 

Q    Mr. President, I have a question for the prime minister.

Q    Mr. President —

PRESIDENT TRUMP:  Yes, go ahead, please. 

Q    This is Saurabh Shukla from NewsMobile.  Mr. President, you spoke
about Prime Minister Modi as a tough negotiator.  Who was a tougher
negotiator today, and who has a better negotiating tactic when it comes
to tariffs with — 

PRESIDENT TRUMP:  Oh, he’s a much tougher negotiator than me, and he’s a
much better negotiator than me.  There’s not even a contest.  Okay? 
(Laughter.)

(Cross-talk.)

Yeah, go ahead.  Please go ahead.  Go ahead. 

Q    Reena Bhardwaj from ANI.  How do you see this relationship between
the India and the United States to counter China?  And what is your
vision when it comes to India, you know, brokering peace in the Ukraine
and Russia conflict?

PRESIDENT TRUMP:  Well, I think we are going to have a very good
relationship with China.  I got along with President Xi very well until
COVID.  That was a bridge too far.  But until then, I got along with
President Xi very, very well.  We were very close, as leaders go.  I
don’t want to be naive, but as leaders go, I think we were very close.

And I think that China is a very important player in the world.  I think
they can help us get this war over with Ukraine and Russia. 

And I look at India, I do see the skirmishes on the border, which are
quite vicious, and I guess they continue to go on.  If I could be of
help, I’d love to help, because that should be stopped.  That’s been
going on for a long time, and it’s quite violent.  It’s quite violent. 

But I would hope that China and India and Russia and U.S. and all of us
can get along.  It’s very important. 

You know, the power of weaponry today is — and not only nuclear, but
nuclear, in particular — the power of weaponry is very important.  I
said before that I had very constructive talks in my first term with
President Putin about the denuclearization of the two countries.  And
then we were going to go to China after we worked some kind of a deal,
and we had the confines of a deal.  We were — I thought we — he really
wanted to do it and so did I — denuclearize.  And it’s such a beautiful
term, when you think about it.  In other words, to bring it down,
because the power of those weapons is too great. 

And I did speak to President Xi about that, and I was getting also a
very good response.  He’s building a very strong nuclear power.  He’s
not very close to Russia or the United States right now, but he will be
soon.  I mean, he’ll catch up over the period of four or five years,
they say. 

But it would be a great thing if we could — on a military basis, we’re
going to spend this year 900- — let’s say $915 billion on military. 
Russia, without the war, was spending close to a hundred, but with the
war, I can’t tell you what they’re spending, but they’re spending a
lot.  And China is spending $400- and $450 billion.  We’re over $900
billion.  And I said, “You know, it doesn’t really make sense.”  I said,
“We’re spending the money against each other, and we could spend that
money for better purpose if we got along.”  And I’ll tell you, I think
that something like that will happen. 

First, when I left, as you know, four years ago, we didn’t have Israel
and the Middle East.  We didn’t have October 7th — what a disaster — the
disaster.  Nothing was happening.  Iran was not going to do anything,
because Iran did not have much money at that point.  They were broke. 
They were totally broke.  They didn’t have money for Hamas or for
Hezbollah.  And you didn’t have Russia with Ukraine, and that would
never have happened. 

But now I come back, and I have — the whole world is on fire, so I have
to put out the fires.  But after I put out the fires, I’m going to meet
with China, and I’m going to meet with Russia, and we’re going to see if
we can de-escalate, if we can bring it down — military — especially as
it pertains to nuclear. 

Please. 

(Cross-talk.) 

Q    And India’s role — India’s role in — how do —

Q    Mr. President, you mentioned about American Islamic terrorism —

(Cross-talk.)

Q    Prime Minister, how do you see India play a role in a — in
de-escalating the Ukraine-Russia —

INTERPRETER:  Mic, please.

PRIME MINISTER MODI:  (No translation provided.)

Q    (As interpreted.)  Prime Minister, how do you see India’s role? 
You have had discussions with President Trump about de-escalating the
conflict in Russia and Ukraine.

PRIME MINISTER MODI:  (As interpreted.)  As you know, I have been in
constant contact with both Russia and Ukraine.  I have also visited both
countries.  And many peoples are mistaken and they feel that India is
neutral.  I would like to clarify: India is not neutral.  We have taken
a side, and we have taken the side of peace. 

And it is based on this principle of ours that, in the presence of
President Putin, I clearly said in front of the media that this is not
the era of war.  And even today, it is my conviction that solutions
cannot be found on the battlefield.  Ultimately, you have to come to the
negotiating table, and India has constantly made efforts that there are
talks that take place where both parties are present.  It is only then
that we will find a solution.

The efforts being made by President Trump — I support them, I welcome
them, and I would like that President Trump is successful as soon as
possible so that the world is on the path to peace once again.

(Cross-talk.)

PRESIDENT TRUMP:  Everybody, thank you very much.  Thank you very much. 

(Cross-talk.)

And I very much appreciate the prime minister visiting our great
country, and I do really appreciate it.  We have so much in common, and
all we want to do is have peace, and we want to have strength, and we
want to have lots of different things together, but the relationship
with India and with the prime minister has never been better. 

Thank you very much. 

PRIME MINISTER MODI:  Thank you.  Thank you.  (Applause.)

PRESIDENT TRUMP:  Thank you very much.

PRIME MINISTER MODI:  Thank you.

PRESIDENT TRUMP:  A great honor.  Thank you.

     END                6:45 P.M. EST
