---
date: '2025-01-03'
published_time: 2025-01-03 16:59:00-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2025/01/03/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-77/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine\_Jean-Pierre"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

1:37 P.M. EST

MS.  JEAN-PIERRE:  Hello.  Good afternoon, everyone.  Happy New Year.

Q    Happy New Year.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.   Bear with me here.  I have a couple of things
at the top.  

In the coming days, the president and first lady will travel to New
Orleans, Louisiana.  The president and first lady will grieve with the
families and community members impacted by the tragic attack on January
1st and meet with local and state officials on the ground. 

The president has been extremely focused on ensuring that everything
possible be done to complete this investigation, ensure the safety of
the community, and provide any and all federal assistance to support
state and local officials. 

Since Wednesday, the president has held regular meetings with his
Homeland Security team to receive the latest information on the
investigation and convey the need to do everything possible to complete
this investigation and keep the American people safe. 

The president has also spoken to the mayor of Lou- — New Orleans and the
governor of Louisiana to offer support to both state and local
officials.  His team remains in close touch with their teams.  And as
the president said earlier today — you heard him moments ago — he has
spoken with the families of the victims.

As he made clear, there is no justification for violence of any kind,
and we will not tolerate any attack on any of our nation’s communities. 

The president continues to receive regular updates on both the
investigation into the terrorist attack in New Orleans and the truck
explosion in Las Vegas.  Both cases remain active investigations, and I
will refer you to law enforcement to speak further about them. 

Next, as you all know, steel and steelworkers who produce it are the
backbone of our economy and national security, powering our autos, our
infrastructure, our defense.  Without domestic steel production and
domestic steelworkers, our nation is less strong and less secure. 

CFIUS evaluation determined this acquisition would place one of
America’s largest steel producers under foreign control and create a
risk for our national security and our critical supply chains.  And
CFIUS referred the matter to the president for his decision. 

So, the president took action to block the deal to U.S. Steel remains —
so U.S. Steel remains a proud American company — American owned,
American operated, by American union steelworkers, and the best in the
world. 

The domestic steel industry is the strongest it has been in years
because of the president’s actions to level the playing field for
American steel and American steelworkers.  And the United States remains
an open economy with record foreign direct investments under President
Biden’s leadership.

As foreign competitors like China distort global steel markets through
unfair trade practices, such as dumping and overproduction, it is
critical that we have a strong domestic steel industry that protects our
national security and our supply chains. 

Today, the president demonstrated once again that he will always act to
protect the security of this nation, as well as the resilience of our
supply. 

And then — so, with that, I’m going to — before I take questions, I want
to add one more thing, which we haven’t done in a while, which is talk
about the week ahead — next week — and then we’ll go into questions. 

In addition to his trip to New Orleans, the president and the first lady
will travel to Los Angeles, California, on Monday.  The president will
then travel to Eastern Coachella Valley, California, on Tuesday. 

On Thursday, the president and the first lady will attend the state
funeral for former President Jimmy Carter.  As President Biden said,
“The world lost an extraordinary leader, statesman, and humanitarian.” 
The president and the first lady look forward to honoring a great
American who gave his life to service.

And finally, on Thursday afternoon, the president and the first lady
will travel to Rome, Italy, from the 9th to — from January 9th to the
12th.  During the visit, the president will meet separately with His
Holiness Pope Francis, the president of Italy, and the prime minister of
Italy as well. 

And as always, we’ll have more to share as we get closer to the trips
and events to come.  But before I even go to your questions, I have one
more thing that I wanted to add — a personal note.  Jeremy and Jacob,
thank you so much for your service.  They will be leaving our team. 
This is going to be — next week is going to be really your last week,
but we didn’t have an- — another opportunity to do this in the briefing
room. 

So, I just wanted to say thank you to both.  You have been phenomenal to
work with.  I’m going to miss you both and wish you the best in your
upcoming endeavors in your career.  But just wanted to — to thank them
here in the — at the podium.

And if you guys have a chance, make sure to — to offer you up your well
wishes to Jeremy and Jacob next week. 

And with that, you have the first question.  Fatima.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  I have three questions. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sure.

Q    Firstly, Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen has for years talked about
friendshoring and countering the ambitions of China with allies.  Will
the president’s decision on Nippon undercut efforts to strengthen
relationships with our allies?  And could this decision potentially
damage the U.S.’s relationship with Japan?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  This is not about Japan.  It’s not.  And you have
watched this president, really, in the last four years, strengthen his
relationship with our allies, obviously abroad. 

And, you know, we have worked, certainly, together to strengthen our
economic partnership with Japan.  We have been in touch with Japan and
conveyed — conveyed our thoughts directly to them.  This is about the
need — you heard me talk about how now U.S. Steel is going to stay
American owned and American operated, and this is what’s important to
this president, and that he’s been very clear about that. 

So, this is about continuing that, making sure that we are strong
domestically (inaudible) operated steel industry for our national
security and for our — for our resilient supply chain, and how important
that would be.

So — and I also stated at the top how if you look at the — the work that
this president has done over the last four years, the steel industry is
the strongest — it’s the strongest that it’s been in years because of
the actions that this president has done every day since day one to make
sure that we protect that.

And so, the president believes that we need major U.S. companies
representing a major share of U.S. steelmaking capacity and to keep
leading that fight on behalf of America’s national interests. 

And so, that’s why the president made this decision.  He’s always been
very clear about that.  We’ve always been very consistent about that. 

And so, that’s going to be our focus — continuing to be our focus,
obviously. 

Q    Earlier today, the president said he spoke with families of the
victims of New Orleans attack.  What

did he tell them?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I’m not going to get into private conversation
that the president has had with families.  We — we don’t do that. 

We’ll — certainly, if the families choose to speak about their
conversation with the president, obviously they have the right to do
that. 

Our hearts certainly go out to the families who lost their loved ones on
a — a day that should have been a celebrated day to such — to such an
act of violence.  Obviously, this is something that we will continue to
<s>condone</s> \[condemn\]. 

But as I stated at the top, the president and the first lady are going
to New Orleans in the upcoming days, and they’re going to grieve with
the family. 

And, sadly, that is something that you have seen them do many times over
the last four years.  When an awful event happens, they are there.  They
want to be there, especially at this magnitude.  They want to be there
and be — be with the family and mourn with the family. 

And so, again, this is — was a certainly an awful, awful event that
happened on the day that we should have all been celebrating: an
incoming new year.  And so, our hearts go out to the families and also
to the communities who are dealing with the aftermath of this tragedy. 

Q    And does the vice president plan to oversee the certification of
the election results on Monday?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I believe that is her plans.  I would have to refer
you to the vice president’s office on her schedule, but I believe so. 
Yes.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  How does the attack in New Orleans and the
explosion in Las Vegas increase concerns in the administration about
security surrounding the certification of the vote, the Carter funeral
next week here in Washington, the inauguration, and even looking ahead
to the Super Bowl next month in New Orleans?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, all of the events that you just laid out is
a certainly high priority for this administration.

The Department of Homeland Security and federal law enforcement have
well-established safety and security protocols in place, especially as
we speak to the inauguration, obviously.  And so, they have been
preparing for months to ensure that — the security of these events and
the safety of those attending them.

So, again, this is something that we’ve worked through for months now. 
And so, we are working, you know, tirelessly every single day to ensure
the safety and security of the inauguration, the safety and security of
major events that you just laid out. 

It is important to the president that we continue to protect, as I said
at the top, American communities, communities across the country.  And,
certainly, that’s what the president is going to — wants his team to
focus on, and that’s what they have been focusing on.

Q    Both suspects in New Orleans and Las Vegas served in the military. 
Does the president find that aspect of this troubling?  And is he
concerned about a problem of radicalization in the military?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I’m going to — obviously, the FBI is
continuing their investigation.  So, they can speak to the FBI and the
Department of Defense, as you just stated, because of their — of their
status and affiliation to the — to — to their military service, I would
have to refer you to Department of Defense to speak to that
specifically.

I don’t want to get into — into a back-and-forth on this — on this. 
What we can say is: continue to condemn any form of violence and do
whatever we can and continue to do the work, obviously, to make sure
that there is — a security protocol continues and we protect Americans
and Americ– and certainly communities across the country. 

I’m not going to dive into the two — the two subjects.

Q    Can you say if the president had any reaction when he heard that
detail about both of these suspects, though?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What I can say is the president is — his heart is
going out to the family who were certainly affected and lost a loved one
that day.  And what he wants to do is to make sure that his — his team
is continuing to do the work to make sure that Americans are protected,
communities are protected, and that’s what I can speak to. 

You heard that from the president multiple times this week already, and
that’s going to be the president’s focus.

Yeah.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  President-elect Trump, a little while ago today,
seemed to take issue with the fact that American flags will be flown at
half-mast at the time of his inauguration, considering the passing of
former President Jimmy Carter.  Is there any potential for that to not
be the case?  Is that a decision that the White House would change?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Just say that one more time.  Say that one more time. 
The pr- — the president-elect —

Q    The flags are due to be flown at half-mast at the time of the
inauguration, and President Trump seems to be taking issue with that. 
Is that a decision that the White House would consider reversing or
reevaluating?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No.

Go ahead.

Q    On U.S. Steel.  The U.S. relationship with Japan is strong.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    What is the national security concern the president sees by having
this investment in — in an American company?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, you saw the president’s statement.  He — he
talks about the CFIUS evaluation, how they ter- — determined that
evaluation, how they got to their, again, determination that this
acquisition would place one of America’s largest steel producers under
the foreign control and create risk of our national security. 

This is from CFIUS.  They are independent.  The president said he was
going to let the process play out, and it has played out. 

And so, if you think about our national security and our critical supply
chain, you know, CFIUS, you know, referred the matter to the president
to make that decision. 

And so, the president ta- — took that very seriously.  He’s always going
to make sure that we put Americans first.  And that is how you saw this
decision play out from this president. 

And I talked about China and how they tend to distort the global
market’s steel with — through unfair trade practices.  And so, you know,
this is something that the president took very, very seriously, and —
and took CFIUS determination. 

We’ve got to remember, this is a cross-government — cross-government
panel, when you think about CFIUS and the decision that they — they
made. 

And so, that’s how the president came to this decision.  It is about
making sure that a U.S. company is U.S. owned, U.S. operated;
supporting, continuing to protect the — the U.S. steelmakers; obviously,
a union.  And that’s what the president wanted — led with, and that’s
how he made this — his decision. 

Q    Is it political?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, it’s not.  This is — again, as I was answering
that question, I said, he said that CF- — we’ve al- — always said CFIUS
is an independent body.  We let this process play out.  We made sure
that this <s>plocess</s> \[process\] play out and — and that’s exactly
what we did. 

And CFIUS made a determination, and they said this acquisition would
create risk for our national security and our critical supply chain. 
And the president took that, really, very seriously.  And he took a
careful look — a careful look at the CFIUS evaluation.  And so, he
decided to block this deal.

Q    One other.  President-elect Trump had communicated on his social
media some inaccurate information related to New Orleans early on.  Is
the president at all concerned about the flow of information and
briefing and access to whatever intelligence or whatever he might need
in terms of this transition?  Are you — is he comfortable with the
information flow to the president-elect on matters like this?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look — and — and I’m — I’m actually glad you
asked this question, because one of the things that you all do as a — a
journalist bod- — a journalist body is that you are able to fact-check
and say that what was stated by the president-elect was simply false. 
And I think that is important — right? — which is why we respect the —
the hard work that all of you do.

As it relates to the president and the information that he gets,
obviously, that’s something for ODNI, if it’s — if it’s related to
intelligence and specific information in that nature.  I’m not going to
speculate beyond that, and I’m just going to leave it there.

Go ahead.

Q    Just three things.  The FBI, NCTC, DHS put out a law enforcement
bulletin earlier today warning of copycat attacks in the wake of New
Orleans.  What assurances can the White House offer to the public, many
of whom might be scared of this kind of vehicle-ramming attack? 

And to build on the earlier question, beyond just radicalization, you
know, is there a wider concern about the mental health implications
connected to service members, given the similarities?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, so, as it relates to the second part of your
question, I’m going to have to refer you to the Department of Defense. 
They can speak to that.  I’m not going to litigate that from here. 

Look, when it comes to — and you’re right, the bulletin was put out. 
And what I can say is: DHS and law enforcement remain vigilant to any
potential copycat.  And so, they’re going to cons- — consistently — DHS
and law enforcement are going to consistently — consistently evaluate
threats and going to share the latest information to disrupt any
potential copycats, potential threats.  And so, that is their
commitment.  That’s what they’re working hard to do.  And so, they’re
going to be vigilant — continue to be vigilant on that aspect.

Q    On bird flu.  The bird flu outbreak is escalating.  At least 66
human infections across 10 states now.  The federal government has two
bird flu vaccine candidates available.  Why not ask the FDA to authorize
them, even for particularly vulnerable farmworkers?  Why defer a
decision on a vaccine to the next administration? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And so, look, that is something, as you know, the FDA
— that is something that they decide on.  They have a committee that —
when they have to make decisions like this.  So, I would have to leave
it to them on how they move forward with that. 

Look, we remain — we take this very seriously.  And USDA, HHS are — are
on top of this.  We are in touch with them.  They’re certainly in touch
with local authorities on this. 

And so, I do want to be very clear that CDC has been on top — have said
themselves that the risk to the general public is — is still low.  And
so, we want to make sure that the American people are listening to CDC,
and they can — and they certainly need to continue to do so.  And we
want to make sure, obviously, the nation’s food — food supply remains
safe. 

And so, a couple things that I do want to lay out that we have been able
to do that the — from this administration, which is protect — directed
the — we made sure that — since March, when this was detected — to
protect the public health, protect animal health, protect our nation’s
food supply, and monitor all trends to prevent the spread of avian flu. 
So, this work is going to continue. 

All relevant federal agencies continue to coordinate, as I just stated,
with local authorities, and so we’re going to do that as — be consistent
with that as we’ve done since March.  And so, that’s what the
administration is going to fo- — focus on. 

Q    But is the president concerned about deferring a decision about a
vaccine to the next administration?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m — I’m not going to get into hypotheticals about
what the next administration is going to do or not do. 

This is something that rests in the world of FDA.  And so, we want to
let them lead by science and the facts.  We’ve been — that’s — we’ve
been pretty consistent on that over the last four years.  And so, we’re
going to leave it to FDA. 

But I — I’m just not going to get into hypotheticals about what the —
what the next administration is going to do or not. 

Q    Last thing on a different topic.  There have been reports that
Chinese government hackers have breached a really sensitive office
within the U.S. Treasury.  OFAC, of course, administers economic
sanctions.  What more can you tell us about the scope of this and what
information has been compromised?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, what I can say is the president was briefed on
this.  We are closely tracking the incident.  We’re working to identify
actions to mitigate the future risk to U.S. government networks.

And anything further, I would have to refer you to the U.S. Treasury
Department, FBI.  They could speak to specifics on this particular
incident.

But the president has been briefed, and we’re certainly closely tracking
the incident. 

Q    Do you know of any taxpayer information or any PII —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I would have to —

Q    — has been compromised?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I would have to refer you to the Treasury Department
on that.  And the FBI, as you know, is investigating this.

Go ahead.

Q    Hi.  Has the president signed the Social Security Fairness Act?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, he will sign the Social Security Fairness Act in
the upcoming days.  Once we have that information, we’ll certainly share
with you on that day — particular day. 

Q    Can you just clarify?  My understanding was it would be pocket
vetoed if he didn’t sign it by noon today.  Are you saying that’s not
the case?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I can say to you that the president is going to
sign it.  I can’t speak to the specifics of what you just laid out.  I
know the president is — is looking forward to signing that.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  U.S. Steel has warned that — that it may or likely
would have to close steel mills if the deal fell through.  To what
degree did the — did the president take that into consideration?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I can say this — that we are confident — the
president is confident that domestic steel and domestic steelworkers are
going to continue to thrive because of the work that he’s done, because
of the commitment that he has had to — to this industry. 

As I said at the top, this is the strongest — it is i- — it’s in its
strongest — the — the steel industry is the — stronger than it — that
it’s been in years because of what the president has been able to do. 

And you think about manufacturing investment, you think about tariffs on
Chinese steel imports, that’s — has made the industry stronger, those
actions that the president has taken.  You’ve seen more than 100 new
steel and iron mills have opened since the president took office. 

So, we’re very confident that this is an industry that’s going to
continue to thrive. 

Q    If — if there are — if there are mills that are closed, if there
are layoffs, would the president need to take some responsibility for
that? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I mean, that’s a — that’s a hypothetical.  I’m not
going to get into hypotheticals.  What I can say is the president has
taken strong actions over the last four years. 

I just mentioned a hundred new steel mills that were created.  What he
was able to do on — on Chinese steel imports, tariffs on Chi- — Chinese
steel imports.  That has made — made that industry stro- — stronger. 
Manufacturing investments, all of that has made that industry stronger.

And so, we believe it’s going to continue to thrive.  I’m not going to
get into hypotheticals from here.  Obviously, the president took — took
this decision really — you know, he — he really took it seriously and
made a decision on behalf of — a behalf of — on behalf of the American
people, and that’s how he came to this decision. 

Obviously, this is a president that has had a lot of — a lot of focus
and wanting to continue to make sure we uplifted, certainly, union
workers.  And that’s what you’ve seen from this president.

  
Yeah.

Q    Karine, a number of the — the president’s actions in recent days
have — have seemed intended to undercut some of the threats that the
president-elect has made or actions that he’d said he’ll put into
place.  You know, he awarded the Presidential Citizens Medal to Liz
Cheney, who the president-elect has said should be in jail.  You all
have the upcoming monument declarations next week and, also, the
decision that the president is expected to make on banning drilling in
certain federal waters.  Are there other actions that we should expect
from him in the coming days that — that he’s planning to take in
anticipation of President Trump — President-elect Trump taking over?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I’m going to be clear.  I don’t have any
announcements to make on — on any of the things that you just laid out —
policy announcements to make.  So, don’t want to get ahead of — of where
we are.

What the president is doing and what he said he would do is continue to
focus on the American people, continue to deliver on critical
investments that he thinks matters of the direction as — as we go — as
we move forward as a country. 

Look, if you think about, for example, the monuments and those decisions
that he’s made on protecting more than 46 million land and water, I
think that’s — shows the president’s commitment to make sure that we
preserve — to preserve our — our environment, that we can really focus
on climate — climate investment, climate change. 

I mean, there’s nothing new there.  That’s been part of the president’s
platform from the beginning.  He happens to really respect Liz Cheney. 
He happens to really respect the congressman.  And that’s why he made
that decision. 

And, look, the president is always going to lift up Americans that have
put their country first is what we have seen.  And he’s done that
throughout the four years, not just this past week.  He’s going to
always make decisions that he believes is best for the American people. 

I mean, there’s nothing new there.  I think that is — if you look at
what the president has done in the last four years, this is all
consistent to what he believes and he believes — and what he believes is
the best way to move this country forward. 

Q    Are there other actions that we should anticipate?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m not going to get ahead of the president.  We have
17 days left in this administration.  The president has a jam-packed
schedule, and he’s going to continue to focus on ways that we can move
forward — invest in this country, invest in — in communities, and
continue to lift up — lift up all the — all — you know, all what he
believes this country can be.

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you.  President Biden has staked his presidency on the
preservation of democracy and has commemorated January 6th in different
ways every year.  What, if anything, will he do to commemorate the
anniversary on Monday?  And in that context, does he still believe
Donald Trump is a threat to democracy?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I don’t have anything to share at this moment. 
You will hear from the president on Ja- — about January 6th — his
thoughts on January 6th in 2021.  Nothing has changed. 

And I think this is a president that has spoken multiple times in the
last four years and beyond about democracy — the importance of
democracy, protecting our democracy.  And so, I would expect that he
will continue to be steadfast on that. 

Q    And then, I imagine the president is reflecting on Jimmy Carter
this week.  And so much of Carter’s legacy is his service to both the
nation and the world in his post-presidency.  So, I wonder how President
Biden is thinking about his own post-presidential service and what he
wants that legacy to be. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m not going to get ahead of this president.  He’s
going to have an opportunity to speak to all of you.  You’re going to
hear ma- — from him many times in the next 17 days about his thoughts
about his presidency.  I’m going to let him speak for himself.  

But I think if you look at the last four years, what he’s been able to
do — whether it’s climate change, whether it’s bringing the economy back
on its feet, whether it’s investment — manufacturing investment in this
country — he’s had a historic presidency.  He’s done more in one term
than most presidents have been able to do in two terms. 

And that is — that is just the facts.  That is what we’ve been able to
see from the Biden-Harris administration. 

So, I think it speaks for itself.  But as far as the president and his
personal thoughts, his personal views, I’m going to leave it to him to
speak to.

Go ahead, Jared.

Q    One more on U.S. Steel.  I guess, more broadly, what message should
other foreign companies who are considering investing in the United
States take away from this decision by the president?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, again, this wasn’t about Japan.  It’s not about
Japan.  This — we have a strong alliance with Japan.  We have worked
together — as you know, I’ve mentioned before — to — to strengthen our
economic partnership.  That is something that you’ve seen this president
work tirelessly on over the past four years.

And certainly, we talked to Japan about this particular decision.  We’ve
been in direct touch. 

This is about a domestically owned, operated steel industry.  And we’re
talking about our for- — our — our national security, of course, but
also our supply chain — our resilient supply chain.

so, that’s what the president wanted to focus on.  That’s what you saw,
this action from this president.

And so, that is going to be our focus.  We’re going to continue to work
on our relationships with our allies across the globe.  That is
something that we’re going to continue to do. 

I just talked about the president going to Rome next week.  Certainly,
that is very important. 

The president, in the past four years, has been able to mend many of
those relationships, and you’ve seen the president on the global stage
and how those relationships have really mattered to our — to our friends
across the — across the world. 

And so, that’s how we should — that’s how we see this.  This is not
about Japan.  This is about what is right for — for America and what is
right — and how we — how he saw the best way to move forward with this
decision. 

Remember, CFIUS did this — did this analysis, and they provided us with
their thoughts.  And the president took this very seriously.

Q    So, if it’s specific to steel, that — that’s sort of an industry
that is —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — really viewed differently than other — like, whether it’s IT or —
or chips or any other industry that a lot of foreign investment has come
into the — the country for.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Say —

Q    I’m saying, there’s been a lot of foreign investment in other
industries —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — beyond steel.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    Those investments are not at risk, or they shouldn’t rethink those
—  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well —  
  
Q    — as a result of the —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, let’s —  
  
Q    — U.S. Steel decision?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, let’s step back.  CFIUS took this on.  It’s an
independent — independent evaluation and an independent agency.  And
they gave their thoughts.  They gave their report to the president, and
the president made this decision. 

So, let’s not forget how we even got here. 

And so, I’m not going to get into other industries.  I’m focusing on
what CFIUS presented to this president and the decision that the
president made. 

You heard from him.  He put out a statement on this in his voice,
obviously, so you heard from directly.  You’ve heard from me on why the
president made that decision. 

So, that’s why we are where we are today.

Go ahead.  Go ahead.

Q    Prior to the announcement today about U.S. Steel, Nippon Steel had
said that it was going to sue if

this decision came to be.  Has there been any preparation for that?  Was
that involved in the decision?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m not — I’m — I’m not going to get into litigation,
potential lawsuits from here.  That is something I would refer you to
Department of Justice.  I’m just not going to do that — be pretty
consistent. 

Go ahead.   
  
Wait, did I call on you already?

Q    You did.  (Laughter.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  I’ve got to call on somebody else.  I’m sorry. 

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  Human rights and upholding international law
has been made priority for the Biden administration.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  S- — say that one more time.

Q    Human rights —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Mm-hmm.

Q    — and upholding international law has been a priority for this
administration.  We’re not disputing that, right?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I’m not disputing that.  You’re correct.  That is
something that when I’m asked about it, we say that the president brings
that up when he has meetings or bilateral meetings with — with world
leaders.  He brings that up, and it’s always something that we certainly
focus on, for sure.

Q    So, I don’t know if you’ve seen Amnesty International report, but
basically detailing the arrest of doctors, health workers in Gaza.  And
some of them has endure torture.  On December 27th, Dr. Hussam Abu
Safiya — he is the doctor for Kamal Adwan Hospital — was arrested.  And
until now, we don’t know what it is his whereabout.  And there is fear
from Amnesty International for his life. 

What is the White House doing to talk with a close ally like yours,
which is Israel, to make sure that his life is spared and he is safe?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, on that particular matter, I would — I don’t have
anything to share on any conversation on that specific Amnesty
situation. 

Obviously, when it comes to humanitarian assistance, we continue,
certainly, to be concerned of the lack of humanitarian assistance. 

This is something that we talk directly with our Israeli counterparts in
the government, and so we will continue to do that.  You’ve seen
Secretary Blinken and others who have gone into the region and have
those conversation with Israel about that. 

I don’t have anything to share about that particular instance.  I would
have to talk to the team, but — but that is something that we certainly
take very seriously, when it comes to humanitarian aid and humanitarian
workers being able to be allowed to do the job. 

But I — I can’t speak to that particular report.  I have to talk to our
team.  I — I want to be really, really mindful on that. 

Q    But would you agree that arresting doctors in hospitals is a
violation of human rights and international law?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  A- — again, I want to be super

mindful because you’re asking me about a particular incident that has
occurred, and I just want to make sure I have all of the information.  I
don’t want to give you an answer without having all the information. 
And so, I’m just going to be super mindful and — and leave it there.

AIDE:  (Inaudible) time for one more.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  All right.

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you.  Is the president following the House speaker election
process today? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So —

Q    He has worked with Mike Johnson.  Does he want to see the process
play out smoothly?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, we’ve always been very clear from here, from
this administration, that we do not inject ourselves into any leadership
election that is happening in Congress.  It doesn’t matter if it’s a
Democrat or — or Republican, we stay out of it. 

The president is going to continue to focus on the job that he has
ahead: 17 days of a — of a jam-packed schedule, focusing on the American
people. 

We’re going to let Congress do their business.

Q    And why is the administration calling for cancer warning labels on
alcohol now, at the end of the term, when there’s minimal political
capital?  Were there conversations with Congress, and was there any
pushback?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, we obviously take any — any report that
comes ind- — from an independent advisory –obviously, we take the
findings very seriously, as we do now. 

It is important that Americans are informed and — about decisions that
they have to make for themselves.  
  
When it re- — w- — as it relates to this particular report, I have to
refer you to the surgeon general’s office, but certainly we take any
independent advisory report very, very seriously.

I don’t have anything beyond that. 

Thanks, guys.

Q    How about one from Fox? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thank you, everybody.  Have a good one.

Q    Does the president still consider white supremacy the greatest
terrorist threat to the United States?

2:11 P.M. EST
