---
date: '2025-01-10'
published_time: 2025-01-10 19:52:08-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2025/01/10/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-fema-administrator-deanne-criswell-6/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and FEMA Administrator\
  \ Deanne\_Criswell"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

2:40 P.M. EST

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hi, everybody.  Hi.  Good afternoon.

Q    Good afternoon.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  So, the president and the first lady
continue to grieve the lives lost and livelihoods destroyed by the
tragic wildfires that are burning communities in Southern California to
the ground. 

Before I hand it over to FEMA Administrator Deanne Criswell, who has
been on the ground in California and will provide further details on
fer- — on the federal response, I wanted to take a moment to remind
everyone in this room and who is watching at home that this is not about
politics.  This is about people.  This is about humanity — people who
have literally lost everything.  Homes, schools, and businesses, entire
communities burnt to the ground.  Treasured artifacts, like personal
photos, precious family heirlooms, and other priceless belongings all
reduced to rubble. 

And I know there’s many of you, your colleagues out there, who are on
the ground trying to cov- — to cover all of the disastrous moments that
we’re seeing on the ground with this event, and I hope you all are — are
being safe out there.

We need to be thinking about Californians, their priorities, and how we
can all come together to support them.  From Maui to North Carolina to —
to California, we have seen that these disasters do not discriminate. 
So, it is on all of us to show these people, to show folks in California
some compassion as they are reckoning with an unimaginable disaster.

While nothing can bring back what many have lost, the president and his
administration are continuing to use every tool at our disposal to help
fight these fires and ensure that the communities impacted are able to
recover.  The president has received regular briefings on the fires. 
And at his direction, his team has been in contact — constant contact
with their s- — with their state and local counterparts from the day the
fire started.

Just last night, he spoke separately with Governor Newsom, Senator
Schiff, Congressman Sherman and Lou, Mayor Bass, and LA County
Supervisors Solis and Barger to discuss the latest updates on the
wildfires across Los Angeles.  And earlier this week, the president was
in California, where he received briefings from personnel on the ground
and met with firefighters who are on the front lines of this response to
ensure they have the resources they need.

As soon as the fires broke out, FEMA approved Fire Management Assistance
Grants to reimburse California for firefighting costs, and the pre- —
president immediately approved the state’s request for a major disaster
declaration for California, allowing impacted communities and survivors
to immediately access funds and resourc- — resources to jump-start their
recovery.

As you just heard from the president moments ago, we have made some
progress over the last 24 hours.  Overnight, local, state, and federal
firefighters partially contained some of the largest wildfires.  There
is still a long way to go, but we will continue to be with the people of
California every step of the way.

Other actions the Biden-Harris administration has taken is to support
local firefighting efforts, include five U.S. Forest Ser- — Forest
Service large air tankers operating in Southern California, with an
additional tanker en route; over 20 federal firefighting helicopters
performing operational — operations in the area in support of state and
local firefighters. 

Additionally, two air firefighting system units are being deployed from
each of the California and National — Nevada National Guards, and 10
Navy helicopters with water buckets are en route from San Diego.  And
Colorado is providing assistance, from the mobilization of aviation
assets, as well as fielding of 50 engine companies to assist with
firefighting on the ground.

As always, we stand ready to provide further support as needed, and we
urge residents in the affected areas to remain vigilant and heed the
warnings of local officials, especially if you have been ordered to
evacuate.

And to everyone impacted by this tra- — tragedy, please remember that we
see you, we are with you, and we will do everything within our power to
get you the help that you need.

With that, I will turn it over to the FEMA administrator, Criswell.  The
floor is yours.

ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL:  Thanks, Kar- — thank you, Karine.  Good
afternoon, everybody.

You know, I just want to start by telling everybody that has been
impacted by these devastating fires that my heart is with each and every
one of you, and I know that you continue to face these fires, as they
are still working to bring them under control.  And unfortunately, this
will probably be a life-changing event for so many of you. 

But FEMA is here, along with our entire federal family, to help you
through this recovery process.  We are going to continue to support the
state and the local jurisdictions, the local first responders as they
continue to try to contain this fire and eventually extinguish this
fire.

I arrived on the ground yesterday, as Karine said, at the direction of
the president.  I had an opportunity to meet with Governor Newsom and
Mayor Bass.  We discussed what their immediate needs were, as well as
began the conversation about what their recovery needs are going to be.

The governor, the mayor, and I had an opportunity just before this to
also brief the president and the vice president about what their
concerns are, about what their needs are going to be, and provided an
update on the current status of the firefighting operations.

Yesterday, I also had an opportunity to receive briefings from the
incident command posts at the Palisades fire, as well as the Eaton
fire. 

And I think the most important thing that I want to make sure I continue
to get across to everyone, as this situation is still very dangerous: It
is still very dynamic.  The winds have died down today, but as I just
got a weather briefing at the county EOC, the winds are going to
increase again in the coming days.  And so, people still need to stay
vigilant.  They need to listen to their local officials.  They need to
heed their advice so they can keep themselves and their families safe.

I also want to just take a minute to commend all of the amazing and
heroic work that the firefighters are doing around the clock to fight
these fires.  They have been working night and day. 

I had a chance to speak with several of them, some of them whose homes
have also been lost or their families have had to evacuate, yet they
still show up every day, supporting their communities, trying to keep
them safe.

And I just want to say thank you.  I want to thank all of them for their
heroic efforts, because they are making a difference.

Now, while the National Interagency Fire Center continues to provide
resources to support Cal Fire and the Los Angeles County and City Fire
Departments, FEMA is also supporting the recovery efforts.  We’re
supporting those that have been impacted by this fire.  I even met with
the SBA administrator here just briefly, who is also here to support
them — businesses and individuals that have been impacted by these
fires.

With the quick major disaster declaration, residents can now register
and begin their recovery journey.  Some of the immediate things that we
can provide to them are to cover the costs that they’re incurring as
they have been evacuated, helping to support what their longer-term
shelter and housing needs are going to be.  We can also help support
crisis counseling and disaster unemployment. 

These are just a few of the programs that we have.  We have many more,
and I encourage everyone to begin that process by registering now.

Recovery from these fires is going to be complex.  I’ve seen many
disasters throughout my four years in this role.  This is certainly one
of the worst that I have seen.

And the debris removal alone is going to be one of the major things that
we have to accomplish — that the state has to accomplish to get this
recovery journey started, and that’s why — when President Biden
authorized 100 percent reimbursement for the first 180 days is really
going to set the stage to jump-start this recovery for these
communities. 

I had a chance to drive through some of the communities that were
impacted as well, and it’s not just the homes that are lost.  We’ve seen
schools that have been destroyed, businesses, small businesses,
religious institutions.  These are things that we are going to be help
being — are going to be able to help with temporary facilities, like
temporary schools to help get children back into the schoolhouse, but
also any other emergency measures as they begin the work of permanent
repair.

Thousands of homes have been destroyed, and we continue to hear the
numbers change, but know that this is going to be a long-term recovery
for all of these individuals that have been impacted. 

And as I told the governor and the mayor yesterday and today, I assured
them that our programs, our staff, the entire federal family are going
to be here with them, alongside them, helping them achieve the outcomes
that they need to — to not just rebuild these communities but also
rebuild them in a way that’s going to make them stronger and more
resistant to the types of weather events that they have been
experiencing. 

This recovery journey is going to be long, but we are going to be there
with them to support them every step of the way. 

And with that, Karine, I’m happy to take some questions. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thank you so much, Administrator.

Go ahead, Zeke.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Thanks, Administrator.  Hope you could speak to
whether the admin- — whether your agency has enough money currently to
fund the immediate response needs, or is there a need to go to Con- —
Congress quickly to get additional funds.  And then, separately, 10 days
out from the presidential transition, what steps are underway at FEMA to
ensure that what has been done so far, what’s going to be done in the
coming days is sustained at the career level and — and beyond, you know,
into the new administration?  Thank you.

ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL:  Yeah, with the recent supplemental, FEMA
received $27 billion, and so we are now able to continue to support the
ongoing recovery efforts for all of the disasters that we have been
supporting to include, now, the immediate response and the initial
recovery efforts that are going to be needed here in California.  So,
we’re very grateful for the bipartisan support from Congress to give us
that additional funding so we can meet the needs of the individuals that
have been impacted. 

And as far as going through the transition, you know, we have an
amazing, dedicated workforce of women and men that are going to be able
to continue to support them.  Our regional administrator here has worked
many fires across several different administrations, and we are going to
work day in and day out to continue to support them through the
authorities that are given to us through the Stafford Act.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead. 

Q    Thank you, Administrator, for taking our questions.  I wonder,
realistically, how quickly will people be able to obtain these temporary
living quarters?  What are you doing to set those up?  Where are you
setting them up, and how are you making sure to get in contact with
people that may need those temporary shelters?

ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL:  Yeah, so the first step that everybody needs to
do — there’s two things.  They need to register for assistance with FEMA
so they get in our system and we can continue to work with them on a
case-by-case basis, because we know that everybody is going to have an
individual and unique need.  And they need to contact their insurance
company, because their insurance company may also provide alternate
living expenses. 

We have a suite of tools, and one of the biggest tools and the best
resources we have is reimbursing individuals for either the hotel costs
that they’re experiencing right now, or if they find a place to rent,
reimbursing them for rental assistance.  Given where we’re at right now,
we know that there’s going to be a lot of rental resources, and that’s
going to be the best resource and the best tool that we have to support
the families that have been impacted, but we have other tools in our
toolbox.

And so, again, we want to work with everybody individually because we
know that everybody’s situation is going to be different, and we’re
going to apply the right tool for their particular situation. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Mary.

Q    Thank you, Administrator.  I — I know you can’t, obviously, put a
dollar sign on this, but can you just help us put into perspective a bit
how you think the cost of this may compare to the cost of other recent
natural disasters? 

And I’m hoping you could also comment on some misinformation that’s out
there — we’ve seen these erroneous evacuation orders — and how concerned
you are that that may lead to people to not responding to or not paying
close enough attention to actual, real alerts.

ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL:  Yeah, it’s really hard right now on the — the
cost of the disaster, to put a number on it, because we haven’t been
able to assess how much of the infrastructure has been damaged.  I mean,
we know that thousands of homes that have been impacted, but the real
cost of these disasters comes from how much of the actual infrastructure
has been damaged — the roads, the water system, the power — but also the
soft costs and the economic impact. 

We know that this is going to be billions, and so we really want to
continue to focus right now on whatever we can do to continue to support
California in getting this fire suppressed and starting this recovery
process. 

And, again, thanks to the bipartisan support of Congress, we have enough
funding to support those recovery efforts and these response efforts.

And as far as the misinformation and the alert that went out, I mean, we
want to make sure people are getting timely and accurate information. 
And I will defer to the county for the specifics on what they’re doing
as far as that alert, but know that it’s part of our wireless emergency
alert platform that FEMA offers to state and locals, and we are
providing technical assistance to them to make sure we can help them
understand what happened and ensure that it doesn’t happen again,
because we have to be able to send out accurate information so we — so
we can give people the right information and they know to believe it. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Jeff.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Administrator, the president was referring in the
Oval earlier and yesterday to, I guess, some misinformation about the
fire hydrants.  Can you just spell it out clearly: Is there a water
shortage?  Is there an issue with water?  And if not, what — what’s the
issue?

ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL:  Yeah, I mean, I would really defer to the city
and the county for the specifics, but what I have been briefed is that
it was an overload of the system, right?  There were so many
simultaneous fires that happened at once.  There was multiple
firefighting resources that were utilizing and — and putting — using the
water system to put out these fires, and it put a strain on the system. 
And it takes time for that system to then regenerate. 

But the specifics on it, I really just want to make sure that you talk
with them.  As we heard from, you know, the — the Cal — Los Angeles City
Fire chief yesterday, they have — they’ve planned for this.  They have
other resources available with water tenders, and now we have the
ability to fly the aircraft into these communities to help put that fire
out. 

And so, it really — you talk about the multiple simultaneous fires that
started, and it just put a strain on the system, from my understanding. 

Q    And just one follow-up on the coordination with the incoming
administration.  Are you speaking to anyone, yourself, from — on the
transition?  And has the misinformation aspect come up in those
discussions?

ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL:  So, we have a whole team dedicated to be
working with the transition team, and they’re providing regular
briefings to them on a daily basis.  And so, we’re providing whatever
information that they ask for.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.

Q    President Biden committed to 180 days of 100 percent match on — on
recovery funds.  I- — how — just technically, how is he able to commit
to six months when he’s only going to be in office for 10 more days?  Is
that locked in, or could that change if the next administration has a
different idea?

ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL:  You know, this is a practice that many
administrations have utilized to help support the immediate needs in the
— the response to one of these major catastrophic disasters.  And what
we want to be able to do is recognize the catastrophic impact of that. 

And the president has the authority, through the statute, through law,
to be able to commit this amount of funding to support the recovery
efforts.  I would hope that we look at this, as I think Karine said
earlier, that these are communities that have had a catastrophic impact
and that we want to make sure that we are doing everything we can as a
federal family to support them on this recovery journey. 

The statute, the law allows us to do exactly what we did and allows the
president to make that determination.  And this is what they need.  They
need this support in order to facilitate the recovery that’s going to
have to happen. 

Q    And — and just a quick follow.  Does that mean that it can’t be
rolled back?

ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL:  I — I mean, I’m certain that, you know, anybody
can make a determination on if they want to do something or not, but
this was done according to the statute, and I would think that the
statute would say that this is the — the direction that needs to happen
and that it shouldn’t be rolled back.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.

Q    In your — this is Arlette Saenz with CNN.  In your conversations
with any of the local officials, have any of them expressed concerns
about the possibility that that funding could be rolled back?

ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL:  Well, I think I’ve gotten the question from
several people about what’s going to happen over the transition, and —
and the same thing that I’ve said to you is that we have dedicated
career women and men that have been supporting disaster response for
everywhere around the country, not just this administration but the
previous administration and every administration before that.  And the
actions that we have taken in this administration are no different than
the types of declarations that have happened before. 

And I, you know, want to assure them that the law, the Stafford Act,
that gives us the authority to — to provide these declarations is one
that has withstood since 1979.  And — and we will continue to implement
it as directed by the law. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Kelly O.

Q    Administrator, it’s Kelly O’Donnell From NBC.  Do you have concerns
about the inventory of available housing for people who have been
displaced and for the length of time it would take for rebuilding? 
Obviously, it’s going to be some time before you can even clear parcels
that people may own or what have you.  Do you see almost an extinction
of some of these communities for a period of time?

ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL:  So, we’re going to work with the state to
understand what the housing stock is, because, as I said, one of the —
the best resources that we have is our rental assistance.  And we want
to get people into that longer-term temporary situation as quickly as
possible so they can continue on with their lives. 

We’re going to have to do an assessment to see what the availability is
and then determine if we’re going to need to bring in other tools to
help support the ongoing housing requirement for these communities. 

But know that our goal is to keep people in these communities.  We do
not want them to move far from their communities.  This is where they
work; this is where their schools are; this is where their family, their
religious institutions are.  And so, our goal is to find everything we
can as close to their communities so they can keep the community part of
them intact.  Right?  The houses and the buildings might be gone, but
the community stays, right?  That community spirit will always be
there. 

And so, that is what our goal is, and that’s what we’ll work with the
state and the county to achieve.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  In the back, go ahead.

Q    Thanks.  Thanks, Karine.  Thanks, Administrator.  The president
previewed that the death toll was likely to increase.  Does the federal
government have a handle on how many missing people there are, as well
as any advice you have for people dealing with air quality issues at the
moment?

ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL:  So, I didn’t hear the second question.  But to
answer the first question, that’s something I would have to defer to the
state.  All of those numbers come from the coroner to determine the
number of fatalities, and the number missing is something that they’ll
track. 

We’re just going to continue to support them if they need resources to
help with that. 

And then what was your second question?

Q    Just about advice that you would have for people dealing with air
quality issues in the area?

ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL:  With their what issues?

Q    Air quality.

Q    Air quality. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Air quality issues in the area — what’s your advice? 

ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL:  Oh, air quality.  Air quality issues.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What’s your advice to — to folks on the ground?

ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL:  Again, listening to your — your local
officials.  There’s definitely air quality issues around the area.  And,
you know, the beauty of the wind dying down is that they can get better
control over the fires, but it also doesn’t blow the smoke out. 

And so, there are definitely a lot of concerns from across the — the
area here about what the air quality is going to look like.  And so,
they need to make the decisions that’s best for them.  And I know that
the Departments of Public Health at both the county and the state are
providing information and guidance, and I would have them listen to them
for what the best resources are for them to protect themselves from the
air quality impacts from these fires. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  We’ve got to wrap it up.  Go ahead.  And then
to you. 

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Thank you, Administrator.  I’m curious, as you’re
briefing the incoming administration, are there specific steps you are
recommending that they take in this response, given how long-term it’s
likely going to be?

ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL:  Yeah, that’s something that — I mean, our
career staff that are here on the ground in California that are going to
be back at headquarters, they will continue to work through all of the
requirements to support the recovery efforts.

And as the incoming administration comes on board, we will give them an
update as to where we’re at with the status and any challenges that
we’re finding and — and the direction and the vision that we need to do
to achieve the governor, the mayor’s outcomes for this disaster
recovery, but all of the disaster recoveries.  Right?  We had 179
disaster declarations just last year alone. 

And so, our team that has been working these day in and day out for the
last four years will continue to do so within the new administration. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  Last question.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  So, as the rebuilding gets underway, will there
be any requirements around fire-resistant building materials to be used
and other safety measures that, you know, construction folks should
adhere to?  Thank you. 

ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL:  I — I think — I just want to make sure I heard
the question: As the rebuilding begins, are there going to be
requirements on how they rebuild?  Did I hear that right?  I’m sorry.

Q    Yes.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yes, you did.

Q    On fire resistance, yeah. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, fire resistance.

ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL:  Yeah.  So, one of the things that we can do to
help support these communities is we do have mechanisms through our
mitigation programs, whether that’s in the — the public infrastructure
that’s getting rebuilt or through our Hazard Mitigation Grants that the
state can offer. 

As they rebuild, we want them to rebuild in a way that helps make them
more fire resistant, and so we encourage the use of that flexibility
within our authorities to make sure that these communities are stronger
to face any future events that they might see like this.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  All right.  Administrator, since we have 10
days left, I wanted to be sure to say thank you so much for your
service.  It’s been an honor to work with you.  Please stay safe in
California.

And, again, thank you so much.

ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL:  Thanks, Karine.  Thanks, everybody.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, I have actually two more things, and then I’ll get
to questions. 

So, I’ll quickly turn to Venezuela, where Maduro once again demonstrated
his complete disregard for democratic norms and proceeded with his
illegitimate inauguration.  As President Biden emphasized during his
meeting with President-elect Edmundo González Urrutia on Monday, January
6, we believe that it is essential that the will of the Venezuelan
people is respected. 

In coordination with our partners, we’ve given Maduro and his
representatives every opportunity to restore democracy, but they
haven’t. 

So, today, we are building on all of our previous actions and taking
further major actions.  We announced new sanctions on key Maduro-aligned
officials as a part of our efforts to hold them accountable, and we
imposed more visa restrictions, tot- — totaling nearly 2,000
individuals.  We also increased the reward amount to $25 million for
Nicolás Maduro and his so-called minister of interior as part of the
Department of State’s Narcotics Rewards Program — only the second and
third to have the largest amount allowed.

It is important to note that we are taking these actions alongside
similar actions taken by Canada, the European Union, the United Kingdom
to demonstrate a message of solidarity with the Venezuelan people and
further elevate international efforts to maintain pressure on Maduro and
his representatives.

Today, Maduro finds himself more alone than ever, with few friends in
the region and in the world — and around the world.

And before I get to your question, just one more thing.  I didn’t want
to hi- — I did want to highlight some good news we received this
morning.  The final jobs report for the Biden-Harris administration was
released today, and a remarkable 250,000 jobs were created last month,
defying expectations.  Additionally, the unemployment rate ticked down
to a low of 4.1 percent.

This is the only administration to gain jobs every month.  We had zero
months with job losses.  This was no accident.  President Biden’s
administration has delivered the strongest recovery in the world and
laid a strong foundation for years to come by investing in America,
empowering workers and unions, lowering costs, and supporting small
businesses. 

Over 16.6 million jobs created; the lowest average unemployment rate of
any administration in 50 years; record-high unemployment — record-high
employment rates for working-age women; and lowest Black-white
unemployment gap on record.  Inflation down faster than almost any other
advanced economy, and incomes up almost $4,000.

And, again, this was no accident.  This is because of the president’s
leadership. 

And as the president said, our nation faces an inflection point: Do we
continue to grow the economy from the middle out and bottom up, or do we
backslide to trickle-down economics?  And that is a question that we
have to ask.

In the meantime, we’ll continue with this briefing.  Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  First off, yesterday, the Senate advanced the
Laken Riley Act.  It passed the House.  If it’s presented to him before
he leaves office on the 20th, would the president sign that bill or veto
it?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I’m not going to get ahead of — of what’s
happening.  The proced- — I know there was a procedural vote that
happened in the Senate.  I’m going to let the process play — play out,
let the — let the senators do — do their work on that.  I don’t want to
get ahead of that.

So, we’re going to let it play out.  I’m not going to get into a
hypothetical on this right now.

Q    I mean, the administration also often puts out a statement to the
administration’s policy, where it stands.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    So, you’re not putting one out here?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, the — the process is still playing out, and so
we’re going to — we’re going to certainly follow all of the latest
developments on this.  And so, we want to evaluate the bill.  We haven’t
done that yet.  We want to evaluate the bill, certainly, at the end of
that process, and then we will have more to say.  I just don’t want to
get ahead of it right now.

Q    And the president, in the Oval, said he’d be speaking to us later
today about Russia and some other issues.  Is —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — is that going to happen?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, we’ll have more to share with all of you on what
the president is going to — to be speaking on.  Certainly, we’ll — we’ll
share that shortly.

Q    The event he’ll be speaking today?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  That’s what the president said, and that’s what we’re
working out.  (Laughs.)

Q    And then, lastly, it is customary for presidents often to leave
office with a final press conference.  Does the president — how does he
— does he plan to schedule one for his final week in office?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  So, I don’t have anything to preview right now
at this moment.  As you know, as you just mentioned, the president took
questions today; he took questions yesterday.  He’s going to certainly
continue to engage with all of you by taking your questions, as he’s
done very — multiple times recently.

I — I don’t have anything to preview about a press conference.

Go ahead, Mary.

Q    Do you or do the — does the administration have any response to
Donald Trump‘s sentencing earlier today?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, we’re going to focus as — one of the reasons
we had Administrator Criswell in the room, as you all know and you guys
have done a very good job — some of you — certainly some of your
colleagues who are out there on the ground — covering this disastrous,
catastrophic fire.  And so, the president wants to continue to focus on
that.  That’s what we want to continue to focus on.

We’re not focused on — on what occurred today, certainly, with the court
decision.  We are — and we’ve been saying this — I know it’s probably ad
nauseam we’ve been saying this — that we are running through the tape,
and I think we have proven that almost every day, certainly, in 2025. 
We’ve ha- — we’ve been pretty busy. 

And so, that’s going to be our focus: How — what can we do to continue
to deliver for the American people, what can we do to make the lives of
the American people better.  And that is our focus. 

I’m not going to — to speak to the decisions made in the court today.

Go ahead.

Q    Two questions, Karine.  One on Meta.  The — Meta made a decision
this week about doing away with its fact-checking for Facebook and its
other platforms.  Does the White House have a reaction to that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I th- — we’ve been pretty consistent here over the
last four years when a — any co- — any corporation or company makes a
decision — a private company, let’s — to be more specific — makes a
decision, we just are not going to comment.  So, I’m not going to
comment on this.  And so, I’m just going to leave it in that realm. 

But, look, social media — I’ll say this: Social media companies make
their own rules about content mod- — moderation and — but, with that
said, we have been outspoken about our belief that the social media
companies have an important role to play in enforcing their own rules to
prevent to — spread of misinformation.  That is a responsibility that
that company has, and we’ve always been pretty clear about that.

But spe- — speaking specifically to an announcement, we’re just not
going to comment on that.

Q    I mean, I understand, but that is something that you guys have been
outspoken about, and they’re making a change on it.  So —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, but we’ve al- —

Q    I guess it’s something I thought maybe you would want to comment
on.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No.  I mean, look, we talk about social media
companies having a responsibility.  We’ve always said that.  We’ve been
— we’ve all been really clear about that.  We’ve also been clear that
policy decisions that are made by private companies, we’re not going to
speak to those specific an announcement. 

But we can speak broadly on our belief and how we see their
responsibility, and that’s as far as we’ve always gone.  And we’re not
just — we’re not going to go beyond that.

Q    And just briefly on another topic.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    With regard to the Russian sanctions that were announced today,
does the president, does the White House have any concern that that
could lead to an increase in gas prices for consumers? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, we took aim today, in — in your question, at
Russia’s largest resources of revenue and imposed significant sanctions
on the Russian energy sector.  These sanctions certainly target both
Russian oil and LNG, and we expect our actions to cost Russia upwards to
billions of dollars per month.  And so, that’s important to note as
well.

And these — also, let’s not forget that these are also — these sanctions
really continue to — to — for us to make good on the commitment that we
made — that the president made and his G7 counterparts made to target
Russia’s ability to use its energy sector to fund and sustain this war. 
We’ve talked about this for some time, and so now the president
certainly made good on that commitment. 

So, it’s not just us.  Obviously, we won’t — we join these actions with
the UK, which imposed significant and complementary actions of its own. 

And so, I — I think it is important to note that, you know, by taking
these significant actions against Russia, the oil markets are in
fundamentally a better place.  That’s number one. 

And, number two, the U.S. economy is a fundamentally better place as
well. 

And so, that’s why we took this action now.  This is a commitment that
the president wanted to uphold — not just the president but also the G7
— his G7 counterparts, and that’s th- — that’s what you’re seeing right
now. 

Q    But my question was whether you’re concerned that it will lead to
an increase in gas prices. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, you know, I’ve said — look, one of the
things that we expect and we believe is that the supply of energy is
going to exceed global demand through this year with ample capacity
within the — outside of APAC — OPEC+ to increase production, if
necessary. 

So, since the start of Russia’s war, benchmark oil prices have fallen
almost 35 bucks per barrel, and average U.S. gasoline prices have
dropped from roughly $4 to just $3 per gallon.  That’s because of the
actions that this president has taken.

And so, that is what we want to continue to see, and so that’s what we
also think will continue to be — like, the gas prices — you know, we’re
— we believe the ca- — gas prices will continue to — to be where it is
and continue to — to go down because of the pres- — the actions that the
president has taken. 

Go ahead.

Q    President Biden was expected to meet with Ukrainian President
Zelenskyy when —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — he was in Rome today.  Is he planning to speak with him?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, the president did speak to President Zelenskyy
moments ago.  We will have a readout for all of you. 

Obviously, the president wanted to reach out to President Zelenskyy
because, as you just stated, they were supposed to meet in Rome.  It did
not happen because the president decided to stay and be back here
because of the catastrophic fires, obviously, that we’re seeing in
Southern California.  So, the president decided to stay back. 

But they did have a conversation.  They spoke moments ago.  And so, we —
I know the team, before I came out here, was going to work on a readout,
and so we’ll have that out to all of you soon.

Q    Okay.  And in his interview with the USA Today earlier this week,
the president talked a bit about preemptive pardons, saying that they
are still potentially on the table.  Can you speak a little bit about
the scope that he is considering —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — when it comes to that and if he’s any closer to a decision?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, we have been saying that the president will have
more to say, more to announce on pardons and commutations.  So, that is
— we have 10 days to go, so it’s — certainly, that will be very soon
that we will make those announcement. 

I’m not going to get into the scope.  I’m not going to get ahead of the
president, but we will be making some more additional announcements on
pardons and commutations before the end of his term.

Go ahead.  Go ahead.

Q    You mentioned the president spokes with — spoke with Zelenskyy, but
is he also going to have a conversation with the Pope?  I know he was
also supposed to meet with him.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    Or is there any thought that the Rome trip could sort of reemerge
in the —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look —

Q    — final 10 days?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — I don’t have anything to say, to add, or to announce
about a change in schedule.  What I can say is — I just mentioned that
he spoke to President Zelenskyy.  He wanted to share with the president
our continued support for Ukraine, which you’ve seen over the past three
years, and so that was a part of their conversation.

As it relates to the Pope, I don’t have anything to announce about a
conversation with the Pope.  And so, if we have anything to share, we
certainly will share with that — with all of you. 

Go ahead, Kelly O.

Q    Has the president received any updated information about the status
of his son’s home in California?  Also, his granddaughter lives there
now.  He did make some reference to seeing some pictures — I couldn’t —
I wasn’t quite certain I heard it correctly — related to Secret Service
being burned out.  Can you give us an update on anything that relates to
the family?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So — so, what I can say, Secret Service — you would
have to reach out to the Secret Service to — for them to — to speak to
any — any developments in what has occurred with them.

As it relates to the — to the president and his son, I don’t have
anything else to add beyond what the president shared.  Just don’t have
anything at this time.

Q    But is he get- — is he inquiring and getting any on-the-ground
information related to that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I don’t have anything to share. 

What I can say is that, when it relates to Secret Service, certainly,
you have to reach out to the Secret Service. 

But, obviously, he’s in close touch with —

Q    Right.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — his son —

Q    Well, I only ask about that because —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — and his family. 

Q    — he referenced that —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — and they would only be present if protectees were at issue, and —
and they would be connected to the president.  So, that’s why I’m asking
if he’s getting any update on anything related to that.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, again, I don’t have anything else to — to add to
what the president shared.

As it relates to Secret Sl- — Service and protectees and what they’re
doing specifically, you would have to reach out to the Secret Service,
and we’ve been pretty consistent on that. 

Q    And did he have any opportunity at all to speak to the
president-elect about the fires?  And they were obviously briefly in the
same place yesterday with the Carter funeral and — and so forth. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    Does he see a need to — I know there’s a full transition operation.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I was going to say, there’s a full transition
operation.  You heard — 

Q    Fully aware of that, but —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You heard the administrator — the administrator talk
about their kind of process on that side as it relates to FEMA.  Don’t
have a conversation to read out that the president had with the
president-elect. 

But, as you said, there is a transition happening.  We want it to be
effective.  We want to make sure that they have what they need, and so
that continues. 

Q    And one last one.  As —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — as a part of transition, is an office of the former president
also being stood up?  And would that be in Delaware, presumably?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, I don’t have anything to say — to say about
location, but the protocols that normally occur when a form- — when a
president leaves his post, it’s going to continue.  I don’t have a
location for you.

Go ahead.

Q    Yeah.  Just briefly, we talked about the president’s family being
affected by this.  The vice president’s home was also under an
evacuation order.  Any update there on her home there in Los Angeles
area?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, I mean, it — it’s devastating.  This is her —
her city, her neighborhood, and — and her state.  I — I would have to
refer you to the vice president’s office on any updates that they might
share with — with you. 

I don’t have anything for you at this time, but, certainly, it’s
devastating.  So many people are affected by this, and it’s
heartbreaking. 

Q    Just a quick follow-up.  Will she travel to the Los Angeles area
this weekend?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    Is there any travel plan for her?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I would refer you to the vice president’s office on
any travel on — on her schedule.

Q    And one more.  One more.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  Sure.

Q    One quick — quick one, I promise.  So, we talk about the
transition.  Have you hosted any conversations with your immediate
successor?  And when will your final briefing take place?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Laughs.)  I’m sure you guys are all very excited
about that. 

Q    No, I’m just asking for the folks (inaudible).

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I have not had a discussion with my successor. 
I’m letting the transition team kind of manage that process and just
doing my job, focusing on my job, on behalf of the president. 

And we will have a briefing next week, and, certainly, we will share
that with all of you to — I guess, to — to say goodbye.  (Laughs.)

Q    Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Go ahead.

Q    Hi, Karine.  A couple of topics, if you don’t mind.  First, on
Venezuela.  You mentioned the sanctions that the administration is
putting on Venezuela in its final 10 days.  Are you in discussions with
the incoming administration about policy towards Venezuela?  And are you
expecting those sanctions to hold once Trump does take office?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And so, look, I can’t speak to what the next
administration is going to do or not do.  What I can say is — and I
believe Jake Sullivan talked about this when — the National Security
Advisor talked about this a couple times, whether in a gaggle, here at
the podium, saying that they’re — they are in constant communication
with their incoming counterparts, the NSC is.  And so, I’m sure those
conversations are happening on that side of things dur- — with the
transitioning. 

I — you know, I can’t speak to what the next administration is going to
do or not do, but we are in constant communication with — the transition
team here is in constant communication with their transition — well,
their transition team is in constant communication with our — our folks
here. 

Q    Just another one on Havana syndrome —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — and AHIs.  There’s been a slight shift in the intelligence
community assessment surrounding this phenomenon. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    Does the White House believe that this is because of foreign actors
— it’s happening because of foreign actors? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, we put out a statement on this.  I would
certainly refer you to the statement that came out from my colleague,
out of the National Security Council.

What I will say is the intelligence — the intelligence community
assessment is one element of — of an interdisciplinary approach this
administration has taken to getting to the bottom of these incidents. 
We believe it’s important to do so and ensuring our colleagues receive
the support and care they need and that they deserve. 

So, the IC’s updated assessment is a product of ongoing analysis. 
That’s basically what is stated in our — in our statement in — in — to
make sure that we continue those efforts, which we welcome and which
only reinforce why it is vital for the U.S. government to continue
critical research, investigate credible incidents, and provide care. 

So, they’re an ongoing process.  And so, that is part of what,
certainly, our statement stated, and also what the ICA said as well. 

Q    I read statement from Sean earlier —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, yeah.

Q    — and part of it said that the administration, current
administration will be briefing the incoming administration about this
to continue that work.  What does that kind of briefing process look
like, and what does it involve?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, I’m not going to get into

private discussions or conversations.  Obviously, this is an
intelligence community situation, so I’m going to leave it in their —
certainly in their hands.  So, I’m not going to divulge or get into what
those conversations will look like.

But like I’ve said multiple times, we are certainly keeping the
transition team up to date on — on matters that ma- — that are
important, certainly, to our national security, but to the American
people.

Q    Thanks, Karine.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Go ahead, Josh.

Q    Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Josh.

Q    The Supreme Court indicated today that it will allow the TikTok ban
or divestment ruling to proceed with the deadline of January 19th.  Does
the administration have a position on whether that should happen?  Of
course, the —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — incoming administration, he’s changed his view. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I — look, we’ve been very clear about our
position.  Obviously, the president signed the bill, and we believe it’s
not a — it’s not a ban.  It’s a divestment. 

And obviously, there are provisions in that on how to move forward. 
It’s in the courts.  We’ve allowed that process to play out.  I don’t
have anything else to add beyond that.

Q    Can a divestment happen in nine days?  I mean, it seems like it’s
door number one at this point. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, we’ve been very clear where we stand on
this.  Nine, ten days — I would certainly leave it up to TikTok to speak
to that. 

Q    Going back to the Russia sanctions.  Can you walk us through the
thought process on this?  Is — is this — the president-elect has
obviously made clear his desire for some sort of deal to end the
fighting. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    Is this trying to set the table for that by ratcheting up pressure
on Russia?  Another way of asking that is: Why not do this earlier than
now?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, this is — as I stated, this is a
commitment that was made by the president and the G7 counterparts — his
G7 counterparts.  And we’ve always said that we were going to find ways
to put pressure on Russia.  We’ve always said that it is up to Russia to
end this war.  They can do it today. 

And we’ve been, I think, pretty clear on that.  We — this is not the
first sanctions.  We’ve done multiple sanctions over the past almost
three years as this war has gone on. 

And so, this was — you know, it wasn’t just us.  This was also in
coordination with our allies and partners.  And so, that’s what you
saw.  You saw UK make an announcement as well.

And — but we’ve — we’ve been clear — we’ve been clear that we were going
to take actions.  And so, that’s what you see from — from this
administration. 

But this is not the first one.  Right?  We’ve done multiple, as I just
stated, actions before, and we want to make sure that we hold Russia
accountable here. 

Q    But by definition, these are — you made the choice not to do these
specific actions, which are pretty significant —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, they are significant.

Q    — for — for a —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You’re right.

Q    — couple of — couple of years.  So, why now?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, I just said —

Q    You know, why didn’t you do it a year ago?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I hear you.

Q    Why now?  What changed?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And again, in my answer to you just moments ago, it’s
not just us.  This is also being done with our G7 counterparts.  This is
a — a — essentially, a group effort, and that’s what you’re seeing
today.

Q    Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I know I have to — go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  Do you have updates on the American citizens
that are being detained in Venezuela?  The Maduro government claims one
of them is an FBI agent.  If you can confirm? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I don’t have any updates for you at this time.  I
certainly would refer you to the State Department.

Look, when it comes to Americans being held hostage, wrongfully
detained, you have seen from this administration our efforts to make
sure that we get Americans home.  I think we have shown some success in
doing that, and that is going to continue to be our commitment, even
though we have 9, 10 days left. 

I don’t have an update in this particular — on this particular
individual.  I certainly would refer you to the State Department.

Q    And one more.  If we can get a reaction on Indonesia becoming a
full member of BRICS.  Indonesia is obviously Southeast Asia’s largest
economy.  That could lend credibility to BRICS’s ambition to become the
alternative to the G7, particularly as we head into the new U.S.
administration, which may have a different approach towards multilateral
cooperation. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I don’t have anything specific to say about this. 
I would have to refer you to our — our National Security Council on that
particular question. 

Go ahead, Gerren.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Meta also reportedly eliminated its DEI programs
in hiring, training, and picking suppliers, and they cite the Supreme
Court ruling on affirmative action.  I know you said that you wouldn’t
comment on business policies, but the administration really went out of
its way to sort of convince businesses not to interpret that ruling as
anything that — further than that.  Is there a disappointment there that
— that companies like Meta and McDonald’s, Walmart are rolling back
these DEI policies?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, not going to comment on a specific — a specific
action that a private company takes. 

But what I can say is that you’ve heard from this president.  You’ve
heard from this administration.  Diversity is our greatest strength. 
You have seen this not just by words, by action that this president has
taken.  And certainly, that is a sentiment you’ve heard echoed by
leaders across — across businesses and government, not just us. 

And so, that continues to be our stance on this.  It is important to
have different voices around the table.  It is important to have
different important to have different voices, you know, working on
policy to make sure that we are delivering for the American people. 

And that’s what we have done.  That’s what we have shown.  And as it
relates to specific companies, I’m just not going to comment on that
policy. 

But I think by our actions and what you have seen us do over the last
four years — our commitment to that, our commitment to making sure
communities that are normally left behind have a voice or not — or don’t
feel like they don’t have access, and changing that around. 

We have done that in many ways, whether it’s the economy, whether it’s
lowering cost on — on drug — on sper- — prescription drugs, making sure
manufacturing jobs come back, helping t- — for wages to go up.  We have
done this and shown our commitment to that. 

Again, I’m not going to speak to any particular company.

Q    Just one more question.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yep.  Sure.

Q    I recently spoke to Reverend Al Sharpton, and he said that he
wanted the president to issue a pardon for Baltimore County State
Attorney Marilyn Mosby and Jesse Jackson, Jr.  Can we expect to hear an
announcement on any high-profile pardons such as these?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, I’m not going to get ahead of the president. 
He’s going to make some more announcements on pardons and commutations. 
Certainly, we’ve heard from groups out there who have certainly been
very vocal about what they think the par- — the president should do. 
The president and his team is working through it.  They’re trying to
figure out the best way forward. 

Obviously, the president believes in Americans who have shown that they
can get a second chance to have that second chance, and I think you’ve
seen that.  This is a president that has been pretty historic in his
actions in — in moving forward with pardons and co- — commutations.  I’m
not going to get ahead of him.

All right.  Go ahead, Karen.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Does the president expect that President-elect
Trump will be here in the morning before the inauguration?  Has that
invitation been accepted by the president-elect?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I would refer you to the transition team to speak to
what the president-elect is going to do or not do on January 20th.

Q    But he extended the invitation to come here —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  That is something that is a tradition, so, obviously,
we are going to try to continue that con- — tradition, but I would have
to refer it to his transition team.

Go ahead, Emily.

Q    Thanks.  I have a few follow-up questions on the transition
process.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    To follow up on what Karen was asking, it’s also a tradition for
the president — incoming president to stay at Blair House.  Is that an
invitation that’s been extended?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have anything to share on if the
president-elect is going to be staying at the Blair House.  What I —
what I will say is we certainly are trying to continue the traditions
here.  We want this to be an effected, efficient, peaceful transfer of
power. 

Once we have more to share, certainly would share from our end of
things.  And anything that’s related to the president-elect, I would
refer you to the transition team.

Q    And then we’ve seen some moving trucks out here today. 
(Laughter.)  Can you talk about where you guys are physically in the
process?  And have there been any directives — because, I know, in the
past, with the other administration, there’s been issues with classified
documents and mix-ups, and I know you guys have said you want to be
careful and follow the rules.  So —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We are going to do our best, certainly, to be careful,
to follow the rules, to do this the right way, to follow traditions,
obviously, as the president truly wants to do, as he showed right after
the election, having the president-elect in the Oval Office, and putting
everything aside and making sure that we were putting the American
people first and what they wanted.  You know, respecting the results of
the election, that’s what you’ve seen from this administration. 

And we have 9, 10 days left, and we’re trying to run through the tape,
do everything that we can and — and get out of here in time on — on
December — “on December” — on January 20th. 

Go ahead.

Q    Speaking of the days left, Monday, the president is going to
deliver this capstone speech on — on foreign policy at the State
Department.  I just wanted to sort of see what you could share from a
preview.  Is this sort of a — a defense of his foreign policy?  Is it a
warning to allies or advice that he wants to give the incoming
administration?  How should we kind of view the speech that the
president is going to give?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Laughs.)  Well, as I’ve stated many times already at
the podium, as it relates to the pardon commutation, I’m not going to
get ahead of the president.  And so, he is going — he wanted to make the
speech.  There has been — you know, there’s a — there has been some key
events, obviously, that has happened across the globe o- — in his — in
his tenure.  And this is someone who has been — when it comes to foreign
policy, that is something that has been a key pillar of who he is and
how — in his career.

And — and let’s not forget, 50-plus years as a public official, elected
official.  And so, he has some thoughts on the future, not just of the
country but how — how this country moves forward as a leader, when you
think about global events, glob- — important global issues.  And
certainly, he will lay that out.

I don’t want to get ahead of him, but you could be — you could reassure
there are major events happening right now: the — the — Russia’s war in
Ukraine, the Middle East, and many other — Indo-Pacific, many other
important matters that he’s going to certainly lean into.  But I — I
don’t want to get ahead of the president.

All right.  Thanks, everybody.  I’ll see you next week.

Q    Thank you.

Q    Any reaction to the Title IX ruling, Karine?

3:32 P.M. EST
