---
date: '2025-05-30'
modified_time: 2025-05-30 13:51:09-04:00
published_time: 2025-05-30 13:35:16-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/2025/05/trump-administration-launches-permitting-technology-action-plan/
tags: articles
title: Trump Administration Launches Permitting Technology Action Plan
---
 
Today, the Council on Environmental Quality (CEQ), in consultation with
the National Energy Dominance Council and relevant permitting agencies,
issued a Permitting Technology Action Plan to modernize Federal
environmental review and permitting processes for infrastructure
projects involving roads, bridges, mines, factories, power plants and
more.

  
The Permitting Technology Action Plan provides a government-wide
strategy to optimize technology to effectively and efficiently evaluate
environmental permits, allowing for seamless information exchange
between agencies, simplified interactions for applicants, and greater
transparency and predictability on environmental review and permitting
schedules for sponsors and stakeholders.

The Permitting Technology Action Plan contains:

-   Minimum functional requirements for environmental review and
    permitting systems;
-   An initial National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) and permitting
    data and technology standard;
-   A timeline and implementation roadmap for agencies; and
-   A governance structure for implementation.

This Permitting Technology Action Plan is a testament to the Trump
Administration’s commitment to expediting and simplifying the
environmental review and permitting process. It delivers on President
Trump’s Memorandum, [*Updating Permitting Technology for the 21st
Century*](https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/04/updating-permitting-technology-for-the-21st-century/),
and follows the establishment of the [Permitting Innovation
Center](https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/2025/04/the-white-house-council-on-environmental-quality-establishes-permitting-innovation-center/).
Working with the General Services Administration’s Technology
Transformation Services, the CEQ-led Permitting Innovation Center will
design and test prototype permitting technology systems in order to
advise Federal agencies on the adoption of the best-in-class-tools. 

“The Trump Administration is working tirelessly to implement
innovation-driven environmental review and permitting reforms to
eliminate needless delays that cripple the growth of the U.S. economy,
replacing outdated technology with efficient, speedier solutions,” said
**Katherine Scarlett, Chief of Staff at the White House Council on
Environmental Quality.** “Through interagency coordination, this
Administration has taken bold action to streamline the NEPA process and
get America back to building infrastructure projects of all kinds.”

“Under President Trump’s leadership, we will ensure the Federal
government is maximizing modern technologies to streamline permitting,”
said **Thomas Shedd, Technology Transformation Services Director at the
General Services Administration.** “Technology Transformation Services
remains committed to supporting the execution of the Permitting
Technology Action Plan by building the tools agencies can use to
accelerate their environmental review and permitting processes – with
results in weeks or months, not years.”

The solutions laid out in the Permitting Technology Action Plan will
leverage technology to tackle longstanding problems identified in CEQ’s
E-NEPA Report to Congress—including, reliance on outdated systems,
fragmented data management, and disconnected digital tools—reinforcing
this Administration’s unwavering dedication to deliver outstanding
results at 21<sup>st</sup> century speeds.

[**View:** **Permitting Technology Action
Plan**](https://permitting.innovation.gov/resources/action-plan)

[**View:** **NEPA and Permitting Data and Technology
Standard**](https://permitting.innovation.gov/resources/data-standard)

**In Case You Missed It:** [**President Trump Unleashes Permitting
Technology for the 21st
Century**](https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/2025/04/permitting-technology/)

*“We need to drill more, map more, mine more, and build more — all while
innovating faster than our global competitors,”* said **Secretary of the
Interior Doug Burgum.** *“The Permitting Technology Action Plan will
channel our greatest asset, American innovation and technology, to
overhaul our current permitting process and power our nation faster,
better, cleaner, and more reliably than ever before. Embracing
cutting-edge development and modernizing this outdated system will pave
the way to American success.”*

*“With President Trump’s leadership, this administration is taking
action to fix a broken system that’s slowing down critical energy
projects across the country. Outdated permitting systems are creating
costly delays at the exact moment we need to be expanding capacity,
strengthening our energy security, and building the infrastructure that
powers American industry and lowers costs for families,”* said
**Secretary of Energy Chris Wright.** *“As Secretary of Energy and Vice
Chair of the National Energy Dominance Council, I welcome this decisive
action to modernize permitting technology, cut red tape, and align the
full force of the federal government behind getting these essential
projects approved and built—because energy dominance isn’t possible
without the infrastructure to support it.”*

*“When President Trump says American farmers and ranchers have been the
lifeblood of our economy for centuries, he means it. For too long, our
producers have experienced delays and uncertainty as they navigate a
complex permitting process that gets in the way of American innovation
and stifles energy and timber production. This historic Memorandum will
increase efficiency and transparency so farmers, foresters, and
producers can get back to the work they do every day to feed, fuel, and
clothe our nation,”* said **Secretary of Agriculture Brooke Rollins.**

*“It takes too long to build in America,”* said **Secretary of
Transportation Sean P. Duffy. **“*Ridiculous red tape and outdated
regulations add cost and delays to projects. It has to stop. Thanks to
President Trump’s leadership, we are slashing the bureaucracy and
getting back to actually building things in America again. We are doing
that by harnessing innovative technology to expedite the permitting
process.”*

*“I applaud President Trump for his actions to streamline environmental
reviews and permitting processes which will bolster American innovation
and grow our economy. Pillar Three of my Powering the Great American
Comeback Initiative is permitting reform, cooperative federalism, and
cross-agency partnership and under President Trump’s leadership, EPA
will leverage technology to maximize efficiency and maintain the quality
of review while expediting permits for infrastructure projects. No
longer will applicants face years-long, uncertain, and costly permitting
processes. Instead, we will safeguard our environment and incentivize
investment into our economy creating American jobs,”* said
**Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency Lee Zeldin.**
