---
date: '2025-05-21'
modified_time: 2025-05-21 13:29:50-04:00
published_time: 2025-05-21 13:29:49-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/2025/05/another-activist-judge-is-protecting-criminal-illegal-immigrant-monsters/
tags: articles
title: Another Activist Judge is Protecting Criminal Illegal Immigrant Monsters
---
 
It’s another attempt by a far-left activist judge to dictate the foreign
policy of the United States — and protect the violent criminal illegal
immigrants President Donald J. Trump and his administration have removed
from our streets.

*“We conducted a deportation flight from Texas to remove some of the
most barbaric, violent individuals illegally in the United States. No
country on earth wanted to accept them because their crimes are so
uniquely monstrous and barbaric … Thanks to the courageous work of the
State Department and ICE and the President’s national security team, we
found a nation that was willing to accept custody of these vicious
illegal aliens,”* [said Assistant DHS Secretary Tricia
McLaughlin](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1925197421593629084).

*“As a career law enforcement officer and a career officer with ICE,
I’ve been dealing with these recalcitrant countries for years — having
to see repeated murders, sex offenders, violent criminals re-released
back into the United States because their home countries would not take
them back,”* [said Acting ICE Director Todd
Lyons](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1925197877833334834).
*“Under President Trump and under the leadership of Secretary Noem, we
are now able to remove these public safety threats so they won’t prey on
the community anymore.”*

**Here are the criminal illegal immigrant monsters the activist judge is
trying to protect:**

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/05/Enrique-ARIAS-Hierro.jpg"
style="width:225px" decoding="async" data-fetchpriority="high"
width="208" height="277" />
</figure>

**Enrique Arias-Hierro, a citizen of Cuba.** He has convictions for
homicide, armed robbery, strongarm robbery, kidnapping, and false
impersonation of an official. He was arrested by ICE on May 2, 2025.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/05/Jose-Manuel-RODRIGUEZ-QUINONES.jpg"
style="width:225px" decoding="async" width="197" height="263" />
</figure>

**Jose Manuel Rodriguez-Quinones, a citizen of Cuba.** He has
convictions for attempted first degree murder with a weapon, battery,
larceny, cocaine possession, and cocaine trafficking. He was arrested by
ICE on April 30, 2025.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/05/Thongxay-NILAKOUT.jpg"
style="width:225px" decoding="async" width="201" height="269" />
</figure>

**Thongxay Nilakout, a citizen of Laos.** He has convictions for
first-degree murder and robbery. He was arrested by ICE on January 26,
2025.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/05/Jesus-MUNOZ-Gutierrez.jpg"
style="width:225px" decoding="async" loading="lazy" width="209"
height="279" />
</figure>

**Jesus Munoz-Gutierrez, a citizen of Mexico.** He has a conviction for
second-degree murder. He was arrested by ICE on May 12, 2025.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/05/Dian-Peter-DOMACH.jpg"
style="width:225px" decoding="async" loading="lazy" width="209"
height="279" />
</figure>

**Dian Peter Domach, a citizen of South Sudan.** He has convictions for
robbery, possession of a firearm, possession of burglar’s tools,
possession of a defaced firearm, and driving under the influence. He was
arrested by ICE on May 8, 2024.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/05/Kyaw-MYA.jpg"
style="width:225px" decoding="async" loading="lazy" width="271"
height="362" />
</figure>

**Kyaw Mya, a citizen of Burma.** He has a conviction for lascivious
acts with a child victim less than 12 years of age. He was arrested by
ICE on February 18, 2025.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/05/Nyo-MYINT.jpg"
style="width:225px" decoding="async" loading="lazy" width="201"
height="267" />
</figure>

**Nyo Myint, a citizen of Burma.** He has a conviction for first-degree
sexual assault involving a victim mentally and physically incapable of
resisting and has also been charged with aggravated assault (non-family
strongarm). He was arrested by ICE on February 19, 2025.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/05/Tuan-Thanh-PHAN.jpg"
style="width:225px" decoding="async" loading="lazy" width="207"
height="275" />
</figure>

**Tuan Thanh Phan, a citizen of Vietnam.** He has convictions for
first-degree murder and second-degree assault. He was arrested by ICE on
May 3, 2025.

*“A local judge in Massachusetts is trying to force the United States to
bring back these uniquely barbaric monsters who present a clear and
present threat to the safety of the American people and American
victims. While we are fully compliant with the law and court orders, it
is absolutely absurd for a district judge to try and dictate the foreign
policy and national security of the United States of America,”* [said
Assistant Secretary
McLaughlin](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1925196520455877113).
