---
date: '2025-05-17'
modified_time: 2025-05-18 13:18:10-04:00
published_time: 2025-05-17 13:13:43-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/2025/05/the-one-big-beautiful-bill-will-crack-down-on-illegal-immigration/
tags: articles
title: The One Big Beautiful Bill Will Crack Down On Illegal Immigration
---
 
The One Big Beautiful Bill is a historic piece of legislation that
empowers ICE to deport the millions of illegal immigrants that entered
under Joe Biden, ensures illegal immigrants do not receive [food
stamps](https://x.com/HouseAgGOP/status/1923096743853322318) or
[Medicaid](https://www.breitbart.com/politics/2025/05/15/democrat-messaging-falters-as-they-ask-constituents-to-foot-medicaid-costs-for-1-4-million-illegal-aliens/), [taxes](https://waysandmeans.house.gov/2025/05/14/ways-and-means-votes-to-make-2017-tax-cuts-permanent-provide-additional-relief-for-workers-reward-investment-in-america-and-hold-woke-elites-accountable/) money
illegal aliens send out of the country,
and [permanently](https://homeland.house.gov/2025/04/27/house-homeland-security-committee-releases-text-for-budget-reconciliation-recommendations/) secures
the border.

The Big Beautiful
Bill [includes](/www.fairus.org/legislation/congress/house-committees-immigration-funding%3c) tens
of billions of dollars in expanded ICE detention and calls for hiring a
minimum of 10,000 new ICE agents. The House Judiciary
Committee [says](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1923737188073693492) the
bill “provides funding for at least 1 million annual removals, 10,000
new Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) personnel, and detention
capacity sufficient to maintain an average daily population of at least
100,000 aliens.”

As [NumbersUSA said in a
statement](https://x.com/NumbersUSA/status/1923434141728538662): “For
decades Congress has promised to secure the border and failed to
deliver. The House Reconciliation bill delivers on the promise of
building the border wall, 10,000 ICE officers, detention beds, historic
funding for Customs and Border Patrol and a tax on money illegal aliens
send out of the country. The Trump Administration needs this funding to
deport illegal aliens, millions of whom entered the country over the
last four years.”

Even opponents of the President’s
agenda [acknowledge](https://townhall.com/tipsheet/mattvespa/2025/05/17/liberal-amnesty-group-inadvertently-makes-great-case-for-the-trumps-big-beautiful-bill-n2657204) that
this historic legislation will allow ICE to “ramp up mass deportation
operations to a level never before seen in American history.”

Put simply, The Big Beautiful Bill will empower Big Beautiful
Deportations.
