---
date: '2025-05-19'
modified_time: 2025-05-19 14:12:29-04:00
published_time: 2025-05-19 14:06:58-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/2025/05/what-they-are-saying-pass-the-one-big-beautiful-bill/
tags: articles
title: 'WHAT THEY ARE SAYING: Pass the One, Big, Beautiful Bill'
---
 
President Donald J. Trump’s One, Big, Beautiful Bill is a
once-in-a-generation opportunity to make good on the promises
Republicans have made — and that’s why advocacy groups and other
stakeholders are coming out in droves to urge Congress to immediately
pass the landmark bill.

**Here’s what they’re saying about the One, Big, Beautiful Bill:**

[**American Exploration & Production Council CEO Anne
Bradbury**](https://axpc.org/education-resource/axpc-urges-house-republicans-to-pass-the-budget-reconciliation/):
“On behalf of America’s leading independent producers of oil and natural
gas, AXPC urges all House Republicans to pass the budget reconciliation
and advance President Trump’s agenda to unleash American energy. This
legislation takes decisive steps towards improving our nation’s energy
landscape by repealing the Biden-era menthane tax, unlocking oil and gas
development on federal lands, and alleviating regulatory pain points
that have stymied the build out of American energy. Passing this bill is
essential to secure America’s energy dominance through smart, durable
reforms.”

[**NumbersUSA**](https://x.com/NumbersUSA/status/1923434141728538662)**:**
“For decades Congress has promised to secure the border and failed to
deliver. The House Reconciliation bill delivers on the promise of
building the border wall, 10,000 ICE officers, detention beds, historic
funding for Customs and Border Patrol and a tax on money illegal aliens
send out of the country. The Trump Administration needs this funding to
deport illegal aliens, millions of whom entered the country over the
last four years. The American people voted in mess this last election to
secure our borders and return law and order to our immigration system.
Congress must not fail them.”

[**Airlines for
America**](https://www.airlines.org/news-update/a4a-encourages-house-to-pass-one-big-beautiful-bill-act/)**:**
“A4A strongly supports the One Big Beautiful Bill Act and applauds the
inclusion of a critical investment of $12.5 billion in modernizing the
Federal Aviation Administration’s air traffic facilities, systems and
infrastructure. For years, A4A has been sounding the alarm about ATC
staffing shortages and antiquated equipment, such as copper wires and
floppy disks. Given the challenges facing the air traffic system, these
funds are a vital down payment on updating the technology that guides
27,000 flights, 2.7 million passengers and 61,000 tons of cargo every
day—all while driving five percent of our nation’s GDP. The legislation
also makes smart, strategic investments in Customs and Border Protection
personnel and training for the aviation workforce of tomorrow while
supporting American energy dominance in aviation fuel production. We
encourage the House to pass this legislation and deliver on the
Department of Transportation’s plan to help keep our skies safe and
efficient. Modernizing our National Airspace System is necessary, and
passing the One Big Beautiful Bill Act will help ensure the United
States has a world-class aviation system.”

[**National Federation of Independent Business SVP for Advocacy Adam
Temple**](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1924484625008558493)**:**
“On behalf of NFIB, the nation’s leading small business advocacy
organization, I write in support of the Committee’s legislative proposal
to comply with reconciliation instructions contained within the
concurrent resolution on the Budget for Fiscal Year 2025, H. Con. Res.
14. As written, this is one of the most pro-small business pieces of tax
legislation in recent history.”

[**CTIA—The Wireless Association President and CEO Ajit
Pai**](https://www.ctia.org/news/ctia-statement-on-one-big-beautiful-bill-act)**:** “The
wireless industry urges swift passage of the One Big Beautiful Bill Act.
The critical spectrum and tax provisions in this legislation will allow
the wireless industry to invest, create jobs, propel economic growth,
and secure America’s edge in innovation.”

[**Job Creators Network CEO Alfredo
Ortiz**](https://www.jobcreatorsnetwork.com/press_releases/job-creators-network-calls-on-house-to-pass-republican-reconciliation-bill/)**:** “House
Republicans’ big, beautiful reconciliation bill is exactly what the
country needs to jumpstart the economy and guarantee the safety and
prosperity of Americans for decades to come. It helps people of all
backgrounds but especially small businesses, the backbone of our
economy, by making permanent and expanding the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. It
increases the small business tax deduction used by 26 million
entrepreneurs annually from 20% to 23% — a tax cut Job Creators Network
has long been the leading voice for. The bill also restores 100%
immediate expensing, allowing businesses to write off investments,
expansion, and modernization. It will empower Main Street to expand,
hire, raise wages, and reinvest in their communities, while also
providing significant tax relief for ordinary folks. All Republicans
should unite to support this historic reconciliation bill. We need Tax
Cuts Now.”

[**Business Roundtable President & COO Kristen
Silverberg**](https://www.businessroundtable.org/business-roundtable-urges-house-budget-committee-passage-of-reconciliation-bill)**:** “Business
Roundtable strongly supports the House budget reconciliation bill. This
important legislation ensures a more competitive, pro-growth tax system,
secures our borders and takes the necessary step of raising the debt
ceiling. We urge members of the House Budget Committee to swiftly pass
this measure.”

[**Small Business & Entrepreneurship Council President & CEO Karen
Kerrigan**](https://sbecouncil.org/2025/05/18/sbe-council-statement-of-support-for-the-one-big-beautiful-reconciliation-bill/)**:** “SBE
Council strongly supports the One Big, Beautiful Bill and urges every
member of the U.S. House to vote in support of this economically
powerful package. The One Big, Beautiful Bill provides entrepreneurs and
small businesses with the tools and policy environment they need to
invest in their businesses and workforce, to innovate and strengthen
their firms, and to lead America’s economic resurgence.”

[**Associated Equipment Distributors SVP Daniel B.
Fisher**](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1924451524798734611)**:**
“This legislation will spur economic growth and job creation,
incentivize capital investment, and ensure AED members, which supply and
maintain the equipment needed to build, feed and fuel America, remain
competitive for years to come. We urge support for the bill and look
forward to working with the entire House of Representatives to approve
it as soon as possible.”

[**National Stone, Sand & Gravel Association Interim CEO Michele
Stanley**](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1924451155163185168)**:**
“NSSGA appreciates that ‘The One, Big, Beautiful Bill’ includes
aggregates industry priorities, such as bonus depreciation, the Research
and Development Tax Credit, small business deductions, keeping the
corporate tax rate at the status quo and protecting percentage depletion
and estate taxes. Additionally, we appreciate the committee’s commitment
to safeguarding associations’ tax-protected status. NSSGA thanks the
committee for introducing this bill and encourages the Ways and Means
Committee and the House of Representatives to pass this package in a
timely manner.”

[**60 Plus Association Chairman Jim
Martin**](https://www.60plus.org/americas-seniors-support-the-one-big-beautiful-bill/)**:**
“It’s a win for seniors across the country. The President and House
Republicans are providing much needed tax relief to middle and
low-income seniors.”

[**Association of Mature American Citizens Action SVP Andrew J.
Mangione,
Jr.**](https://x.com/AMACAction/status/1923027511845224769)**:** “This
bill is a win for seniors, for taxpayers, and for the future of our
country. We urge swift passage and full support from lawmakers who value
liberty, accountability, and the financial security of AMAC members
across the country.”

[**RATE Coalition Executive Director Dan
Combs**](https://ratecoalition.com/rate-coalition-urges-swift-passage-of-tax-reform-legislation/)**:**
“This legislation is a clear step toward preserving a tax code that
spurs job creation, boosts wages, and builds on the legacy created by
President Trump and Congress under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. Now is the
time for Congress to come together, finish the work, and deliver a
strong, stable economic foundation for American workers and businesses.
A competitive corporate tax rate is key to keeping the U.S. ahead and a
top destination for investment in the global economy. This bill goes a
long way towards making that possible.”

[**Uber CEO Dara
Khosrowshahi**](https://x.com/dkhos/status/1922734631696179458)**:** “We’ve
said from the start: No Tax on Tips should include @Uber drivers &
couriers. Grateful the new House Ways & Means bill does just that.
Thanks to @POTUS and @RepJasonSmith for backing all tipped workers—no
matter how they work. Let’s get this done!”

[**DoorDash CEO Tony
Xu**](https://x.com/t_xu/status/1922851238254657774?s=12)**:** “Thanks
to @POTUS and @RepJasonSmith, millions of Dashers may soon get a tax
break on their hard-earned tips. Following advocacy from 40K Dashers,
including dozens in DC last week, the House’s budget bill is an
important step in making \#NoTaxOnTips a reality.”

[**Americans for Prosperity Chief Government Affairs Officer Brent
Gardner**](https://americansforprosperity.org/press-release/afp-to-lawmakers-time-to-advance-tax-cuts-and-secure-long-term-growth/)**:**
“The Republican Party has an incredible opportunity to put the country
on the right track for long-term economic growth by making the Trump Tax
Cuts permanent and avoiding the largest tax hike in American history.
This bill is smart pro-growth policy that would provide certainty for
American businesses and lead to sustained prosperity for millions of
working Americans. This legislation also takes meaningful action to cut
billions in special interest giveaways, reforming broken programs, and
rooting out waste, fraud, and abuse –   ensuring that taxpayers’
hard-earned dollars are spent wisely. It’s about making government work
better for the people it serves. We’re encouraged by the foundation laid
in the House and stand ready to work with Senate lawmakers to get this
measure across the finish line. The moment for action is now. We urge
all Members to support this legislation and put our economy on the path
to growth and opportunity.”

[**Concerned Veterans for America Executive Director John
Vick**](https://cv4a.org/news-media/cva-urges-congress-to-advance-tax-cuts-for-americas-prosperity/)**:**
“Failing to extend President Trump’s Tax Cuts and Jobs Act would impose
the largest tax hike in U.S. history on American families and
businesses. Congress must seize its opportunity to protect our long-term
prosperity while improving the lives of middle-class Americans. The
American people sent a clear message last November: they are tired of
massive tax hikes, higher prices, reckless government spending, and
Biden-era “Green New Deal” giveaways. Congress must answer this call by
moving budget reconciliation forward. As veterans, we fought for a
better future for our fellow Americans. We also understand that a strong
economy is the bedrock of American strength at home and abroad. Today,
CVA calls on Congress to act to protect the promise of long-term
economic growth and prosperity for all Americans.”

[**The LIBRE Initiative Executive Director Sandra
Benitez**](https://thelibreinitiative.com/press-releases/the-libre-initiative-statement-its-time-to-protect-tax-cuts-and-grow-the-economy/)**:**
“We commend the House Budget Committee for taking a positive step to
ensure that we continue extending tax relief to middle-class families
and job creators, including Latinos who cannot afford a tax hike. Now it
is critical that the House of Representatives have a full House vote as
quickly as possible and approve this pro-growth legislation to help
unleash prosperity and opportunity for all. The LIBRE Initiative looks
forward to educating and activating the Latino community on the benefits
of this critical legislation.”

[**America First Policy
Institute**](https://x.com/A1Policy/status/1923449871291343322)**:**
“Conservatives must deliver to the American people! The One, Big,
Beautiful Bill cuts taxes for ALL Americans, secures the border, stands
up to the woke mob by empowering parents and protecting women and
children, and much more!”

[**Independent Women Center for Economic Opportunity Director Patrice
Onwuka**](https://www.iwv.org/2025/05/independent-women-on-big-beautiful-bill-the-stakes-are-high/)**:**
“Passing the Big, Beautiful Bill is an imperative. The stakes are high.
If Congress fails to pass this bill, average Americans face a massive
22% tax increase, 40 million families will see their Child Tax Credit
slashed in half, and 26 million small businesses face a 43.4% top tax
rate. Republicans should not hold up tax relief for American families
and small businesses to bail out high-tax blue states.”

[**Family Business
Coalition**](https://x.com/FamBizCoalition/status/1923812906224775449)**:**
“Family Business Coalition supports the ‘One, Big, Beautiful Bill’ which
includes tax relief that will help family businesses expand, upgrade
equipment, and hire more workers. FBC urges the House to take action now
to move this process forward in Congress.”
