---
date: '2025-05-23'
published_time: 2025-05-23 15:15:59-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/2025/05/president-trump-signs-executive-orders-to-usher-in-a-nuclear-renaissance-restore-gold-standard-science/
tags: articles
title: President Trump Signs Executive Orders to Usher in a Nuclear Renaissance, Restore
  Gold Standard Science
---
 
WASHINGTON, DC – Today, as he signs several key executive orders,
President Trump is taking decisive action to strengthen scientific
discovery in America, rebuild public trust in science, and accelerate
advanced nuclear technologies.  
  
Under President Trump’s leadership, America will usher in a nuclear
energy renaissance. After decades of stagnation and shuttered reactors,
President Trump is providing a path forward for nuclear innovation.
Today’s executive orders allow for reactor design testing at DOE labs,
clear the way for construction on federal lands to protect national and
economic security, and remove regulatory barriers by requiring the
Nuclear Regulatory Commission to issue timely licensing decisions.  
  
“Over the last 30 years, we stopped building nuclear reactors in America
– that ends now. Today’s executive orders are the most significant
nuclear regulatory reform actions taken in decades. We are restoring a
strong American nuclear industrial base, rebuilding a secure and
sovereign domestic nuclear fuel supply chain, and leading the world
towards a future fueled by American nuclear energy. These actions are
critical to American energy independence and continued dominance in AI
and other emerging technologies,” **said White House Office of Science
and Technology Director Michael Kratsios.**  
  
“For too long, America’s nuclear energy industry has been stymied by red
tape and outdated government policies, but thanks to President Trump,
the American nuclear renaissance is finally here,” **Energy**
**Secretary Chris Wright said.** “With the emergence of AI and President
Trump’s pro-American manufacturing policies at work, American civil
nuclear energy is being unleashed at the perfect time. Nuclear has the
potential to be America’s greatest source of energy addition. It works
whether the wind is blowing, or the sun is shining, is possible anywhere
and at different scales. President Trump’s executive orders today
unshackle our civil nuclear energy industry and ensure it can meet this
critical moment.”  
  
“President Trump’s executive orders expand America’s Energy Dominance
agenda. As energy demand continues to surge, expanding our existing
nuclear fleet and investing in advanced nuclear technologies ensures we
have reliable energy to power our homes, fuel for President Trump’s
manufacturing revolution, and a stronger electric grid,” **said Interior
Secretary Doug Burgum.**  
  
The President also signed an executive order implementing Gold Standard
Science to rebuild public trust in the national science enterprise. The
EO defines Gold Standard Science and requires federal research agencies
to conform their existing programs and activities to these fundamentals.
In addition to federal agencies, the Trump Administration is issuing a
call to excellence for all American researchers and academic
institutions to go back to the basics by restoring Gold Standard
Science.  
  
Gold Standard Science is just that—science that meets the Gold Standard.
It’s reproducible, transparent, falsifiable, subject to unbiased peer
review, clear about errors and uncertainties, skeptical of assumptions,
collaborative, interdisciplinary, accepting of negative results, and
free from conflicts of interests.  
  
“President Trump is making Gold Standard Science the cornerstone of the
federal science enterprise and rebuilding public trust in science. With
this executive order, we are recommitting ourselves to scientific best
practices and empowering America’s researchers to achieve groundbreaking
discoveries. Gold Standard Science starts in the policies and programs
of our great federal research institutions, and continues with
partnership across academia, industry, and philanthropy,” **said
Director Kratsios.**
