---
date: '2025-05-28'
modified_time: 2025-05-28 11:37:21-04:00
published_time: 2025-05-28 11:04:31-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/2025/05/aoc-wants-to-end-the-agency-arresting-killers-rapists-in-new-york/
tags: articles
title: AOC Wants to END the Agency Arresting Killers, Rapists in New York
---
 
*“AOC, Democrat Party leader, calls for abolishing ICE. Meanwhile, the
brave men and women of ICE get dangerous criminal illegal immigrants off
our streets and protect American citizens. Why does AOC want to stop
that?”* — White House spokeswoman Abigail Jackson

While President Donald J. Trump, his administration, and the heroes of
ICE work overtime to rid our country of criminal illegal immigrant
killers, rapists, and gangbangers, top Democrats are doubling down on
their call to eliminate the agency responsible for getting these animals
off our streets.

**“I believe that ICE, an agency that was just formed in 2003 during the
Patriot Act era, is a rogue agency that should not exist,”** [says Rep.
Alexandria
Ocasio-Cortez](https://dailycaller.com/2025/05/27/aoc-doubles-down-abolish-ice-bandwagon/),
the leader of the Democrat Party.

Where is the congresswoman’s concern for her fellow New Yorkers who have
been brutally killed, maimed, and raped by criminal illegal immigrants
allowed to [roam
free](https://nypost.com/2024/11/30/us-news/nyc-is-now-home-to-over-58k-criminal-migrants-including-over-1000-gang-members-ice/)
due to New York’s so-called “sanctuary” policies?

**Here is a tiny sample of the criminal illegals arrested by ICE in New
York recently:**

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/05/Julian-LEMA-Bravo.png"
style="width:175px" decoding="async" data-fetchpriority="high"
width="232" height="308" />
</figure>

**Julian Lema Bravo**, an Ecuadorian national with a conviction for rape
of a victim less than 15-years-old.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/05/Luis-Alejandro-Castillo-Torres.png"
style="width:175px" decoding="async" width="382" height="509" />
</figure>

**Luis Alejandro Castillo-Torres**, a Venezuelan national and Tren de
Aragua gang member with a conviction for felony assault and arrests for
multiple counts of assault, robbery, and criminal possession of a
weapon.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/05/•-Kervin-Broderick-Davis.jpeg"
style="width:175px;height:auto" decoding="async" width="340"
height="453" />
</figure>

**Kervin Broderick Davis**, a Jamaican national and registered sex
offender with a conviction for first-degree sexual assault.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/05/Tanya-CAMPBELL.png"
style="width:175px" decoding="async" loading="lazy" width="252"
height="336" />
</figure>

**Tanya Campbell**, a Jamaican national with a conviction for
first-degree manslaughter.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/05/Sayanam-Ghimire.jpg"
style="width:175px;height:auto" decoding="async" loading="lazy"
width="413" height="550" />
</figure>

**Sayanam Ghimire**, a Nepali national with a conviction for
first-degree attempted sex abuse of a victim under 13.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/05/Litzy-Janel-Saavedra.png"
style="width:175px" decoding="async" loading="lazy" width="216"
height="288" />
</figure>

**Litzy Janel Saavedra**, a Mexican national with a conviction for
felony rape.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/05/Surjit-Singh.jpeg"
style="width:175px" decoding="async" loading="lazy" width="222"
height="296" />
</figure>

**Surjit Singh**, an Indian national with a conviction for third-degree
assault with intent to cause physical injury. He was ordered removed by
a judge in 2007.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/05/Jonathan-Cortez-Vasquez.jpeg"
style="width:175px" decoding="async" loading="lazy" width="396"
height="528" />
</figure>

**Jonathan Cortez Vasquez**, a Salvadoran national with convictions for
criminal contempt, acting in a manner to injure a child less than
17-years-old, and attempted possession of a forged instrument.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/05/Roxana-Ofelia-Pinto-Quijada.png"
style="width:175px" decoding="async" loading="lazy" width="270"
height="360" />
</figure>

**Roxana Ofelia Pinto-Quijada**, a Venezuelan national with a conviction
for grand theft.
