---
date: '2025-05-16'
modified_time: 2025-05-16 15:03:02-04:00
published_time: 2025-05-16 15:03:01-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/2025/05/what-they-are-saying-trillions-in-great-deals-secured-for-america-thanks-to-president-trump/
tags: articles
title: 'WHAT THEY ARE SAYING: Trillions in Great Deals Secured for America Thanks
  to President Trump'
---
 
President Donald J. Trump’s first official trip was a huge success,
locking in over $2 trillion in great deals—including a $600 billion
investment commitment from Saudi Arabia, a $1.2 trillion economic
exchange agreement with Qatar, $243.5 billion in U.S.-Qatar commercial
and defense deals, and $200 billion in U.S.-United Arab Emirates
commercial deals.

President Trump’s historic collaboration with these Middle Eastern
nations not only strengthens America’s economy but also fosters greater
safety and stability in the region, paving the way for a more prosperous
and secure future.

The companies securing these landmark deals are grateful for the Trump
Administration’s leadership and the economic climate President Trump has
fostered to make these agreements possible:

### **<u>U.S.-Saudi Arabia Deals</u>**

**Alphabet and Google President and Chief Investment Officer Ruth
Porat:** “We acknowledge and are grateful for the engagement and
policies of the Trump Administration and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia,
who are enabling strong execution to accelerate AI innovation in both
countries. We are proud of the partnership with PIF for a global AI hub
that will deliver innovation, economic growth and societal benefits not
only to Saudi Arabia, but also to American and global companies doing
business in the region. Together, we will create highly-skilled jobs and
deliver AI training programs to open new, rewarding career pathways.”

**Amazon CEO Andy Jassy:** “We appreciate President Trump and Crown
Prince Mohammed bin Salman convening business leaders in Saudi Arabia to
strengthen economic ties and drive innovation between our two countries.
Amazon is excited to partner with HUMAIN, Saudi Arabia’s newly created
AI innovation company, to collectively invest more than $5 billion to
build a groundbreaking ‘AI Zone’ there, which will bring multiple
innovative AWS AI capabilities to Saudi Arabia along with skills
training for 100,000 citizens from the Kingdom.”

**DataVolt CEO Rajit Nanda:** “This partnership was made possible in
large part due to the enabling technology and trade frameworks advanced
during the Trump Administration—policies that championed high-tech
exports, strengthened U.S.-Saudi strategic ties, which have empowered
entrepreneurial collaboration in the digital era.”

**Oracle CEO Safra Catz:** “Thanks to the decisive actions and strong
leadership of President Trump and his administration, Oracle is
providing the world’s most advanced cloud and AI technology to Saudi
Arabia. Our expanded partnership with the Kingdom will create new
opportunities for its economy, deliver better health outcomes for its
people, and fortify its alliance with the United States, which will
create a ripple effect of peace and prosperity across the Middle East
and around the world.”

**GE Vernova CEO Scott Strazik:** “As the world’s energy equipment
manufacturer, GE Vernova is proud to deploy world class technology to
help deepen the longstanding relationship between the United States and
the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, advance energy security, and strengthen the
economic prosperity and competitiveness of both nations. We are thankful
for the leadership of both governments for putting energy manufacturing,
innovation, and technology front and center, setting the strongest
possible precedent for the role of equipment to unlock more solutions
globally. We are committed to continuing our work to grow capacity and
jobs in the U.S. and beyond to meet these critical needs.”

**Shamekh IV Solutions, LLC Chairman and Founder Stephen Shaya, M.D.:**
“We extend our profound gratitude to President Trump, Crown Prince
Mohammed bin Salman Al Saud, the Administrations of the United States
and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, and our future partner Alturki Holding
for their unwavering support and shared vision in making this endeavor
possible. The Trump Administration’s policies and engagements have shown
leadership and laid the groundwork for international partnerships and
investment opportunities. As we embark on this transformative journey,
we are committed to generating employment, stimulating industrial
growth, and contributing to the development of a robust pharmaceutical
industry in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and the United States. Together
with our esteemed partners, we are fortifying global competitiveness and
positioning ourselves as leaders in the healthcare sector. This venture
represents a monumental leap forward in our mission to deliver
innovative healthcare solutions. By leveraging advanced technologies and
fostering international collaborations, we aim to set new standards in
biopharmaceutical manufacturing and research, ultimately improving
patient outcomes worldwide.”

**Saudi Excellence Co. Chairman Sheikh Abdullah Zaid Al-Meleihi on the
Energy Investment Fund:** “This vehicle represents more than capital—it
is a bridge of trust and ambition between two great nations. We are
proud to recognize the legacy of President Trump, which positioned the
United States as a magnet for innovation and opportunity and elevated
the conditions necessary for meaningful bilateral engagement.”

**New Era Fund and New Vista Capital General Partners Adam Kaplan and
Kirsten Bartok Touw, along with Saudi Excellence Co. Chairman Sheikh
Abdullah Zaid Al-Meleihi:** “We extend our gratitude to President Donald
J. Trump and His Royal Highness Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman Al Saud
for their exceptional leadership and support in making this initiative
possible. The launch of the New Era Fund reflects a shared vision of
investing in industrial capability and innovation to build a stronger
and more resilient future together.”

**Palantir Co-Founder and CEO Alex Karp:** “This historic visit builds
on decades of strategic cooperation between the United States and Saudi
Arabia. Palantir is proud to play a role in forging the next generation
of that alliance by enhancing U.S.-Saudi cooperation on AI and defense.”

**Lockheed Martin Chairman, President, and CEO Jim Taiclet:** “At
Lockheed Martin, we build the world’s best air defense systems, powerful
radars, and most lethal fighter aircraft and we thank President Trump
for including us in this groundbreaking defense partnership with the
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. We look forward to working with his
administration to support a pathway to fifth generation air dominance
capabilities while further strengthening the Kingdom’s defenses against
air and missile threats.”

**L3Harris Chair and CEO Christopher E. Kubasik:** “L3Harris was proud
to enter a defense-focused joint venture with Saudi Arabian Military
Industries (SAMI) in 2019 under the first Trump administration, and
today’s agreement represents another significant step forward in our
collaboration in the Kingdom. We look forward to expanding our
partnership in communications; datalinks; and intelligence, surveillance
and reconnaissance capabilities to protect the joint security interests
of the U.S. and Saudi Arabia.”

**Jacobs Chair and CEO Bob Pragada:** “Jacobs is honored to have
participated in the Saudi–U.S. Investment Forum, held this week, which
reinforces the strength of the commercial partnership between the United
States and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. The signing of our Memorandum of
Understanding with Saudi Power Procurement Company (SPPC) reflects
Jacobs’ continued commitment to delivering sustainable infrastructure
that supports Vision 2030 and contributes to long term prosperity and
job creation in the Kingdom.” 

**Bechtel Chairman and CEO Brendan Bechtel:** “Bechtel’s announcement to
deliver three new terminals at King Salman International Airport marks a
significant new chapter in our more than 80-year partnership with the
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. This project reflects our shared commitment to
advancing world-class infrastructure that fuels long-term economic
growth and underscores the enduring strength of U.S.-Saudi economic and
development ties. We appreciate the leadership of President Trump and
the vision of Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman. We’re proud of the
progress we’ve made together—including more than 300 projects across
Saudi Arabia, such as the recently opened Riyadh Metro—and we’re
energized by the opportunities ahead.” 

**Franklin Templeton CEO and President Jenny Johnson:** “President Trump
is visiting the Middle East to build on historic progress made in his
first term to bring peace and stability to the region by brokering the
Abraham accords. His focus on enhanced economic and military cooperation
advances the interests of the US, our partners in the region, and all
who rely on the benefits of a more stable region and safe passage of
critical resources and services. The United States is home to the
leading global asset managers. For over 75 years, Franklin Templeton has
been one of the largest, most innovative, and truly global firms; having
maintained a physical presence in the Gulf region more than 25 years, we
are renowned for our pioneering approach to emerging market investments,
as we were one of the first global asset managers to invest in the Saudi
capital market and now we offer a suite of investment and research
services from our Riyadh location, in addition to our leadership in
global Sukuk and Sharia-compliant investing. Our USA-based teams manage
many of our global portfolios in close collaboration with our local
teams on the ground in Saudi Arabia and around the world. The Trump
Administration’s policies, including those designed to open foreign
markets to US-based global leaders like us – have already helped
Franklin Templeton to export more of our world-class services. And the
Administration’s bilateral approach to trade in both goods and services
is a welcome, direct approach that allows for quick and meaningful
successes like those we have announced this week with our Saudi
partners.”

**Edrevel Founder and CEO Anita Selwyn:** “President Trump’s visit to
Saudi Arabia and the announcement of more than $600 billion in
U.S.–Saudi investment agreements mark a major step forward in global
economic partnership. Edrevel thanks the U.S. Department of Commerce for
bringing together innovative startups and enterprises to power the
dialogue at the forum, and set the stage for long term investments in
the U.S. and Saudi Arabia. The investments in both countries generate a
surging demand for talent, requiring fast, scalable upskilling.
AI-powered learning delivers speed, precision, and measurable ROI.
Edrevel is proud to advance workforce development through strategic
partnerships with the Saudi Entertainment Academy, Alfaisal Center for
Research and Consultancy Studies, and Aosha Training and Consulting in
Saudi Arabia. We look forward to expanding Edrevel’s role in building
capacity, driving innovation, and unlocking opportunity across both
nations.” 

**Mitchell Rubber Arabia Founder, Chairman, and CEO Stephen J.
Lautenschlager:**  “President Trump’s visit to Saudi Arabia represents a
historic affirmation of the enduring strength and strategic importance
of the U.S.–Saudi relationship. Mitchell Rubber exemplifies the kind of
industrial collaboration that advances Vision 2030 while delivering real
economic value back to the United States—through expanded trade,
advanced technology integration, and the growth of U.S.-based
engineering and services exports. This partnership is made possible by
forward-looking policies from both governments and the coordinated
support of the Ministry of Investment, the Royal Commission for Yanbu,
the U.S. Embassy, and the U.S.–Saudi Business Council—all of whom have
played a vital role in enabling this cross-border investment and
industrial localization initiative.” 

**I Squared Capital Chairman and Managing Partner Sadek Wahba:**
“Today’s forum represents the best of U.S.-Saudi cooperation—built on a
long-standing partnership and poised for future growth. The MoU I
Squared Capital signed with the Public Investment Fund highlights the
vital role of private capital, particularly in infrastructure, and
reflects what’s possible when two nations share a commitment to
innovation, investment, and economic progress. We are especially
grateful to the U.S. and Saudi leadership for their vision and
collaboration in setting the stage for high-impact partnerships like
ours. As part of our commitment to the Kingdom, I Squared Capital hopes
to invest roughly $1 billion in Saudi Arabia over the coming years,
supporting the ambitions of Vision 2030 and contributing to a more
connected, sustainable, and prosperous future.”

**Armada CEO Dan Wright:** “We’re grateful for President Trump’s focus
on American leadership in enhancing global economic prosperity and look
forward to continuing to strengthen key international partnerships
through collaboration, technology, and innovation. This visit marks a
significant moment in the historic partnership between the United States
and Saudi Arabia. Aligned with this milestone, we are proud to announce
that Armada is partnering with Alturki Holding to bring real-world AI
and edge infrastructure to the region and help advance Saudi Arabia’s
Vision 2030. This $30 million investment will accelerate American and
Saudi innovators, create highly-skilled jobs, and expand opportunities
for collaboration between our nations.” 

**Qualcomm CEO Cristiano Amon:** “This marks a pivotal time for the
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia as it makes significant strides in becoming a
global hub for digital and AI innovation. As a long-standing American
innovator and semiconductor company, we are proud to work with HUMAIN,
Aramco and ALAT to deploy our leading technologies in 5G, AI and next
generation edge and cloud computing. The Saudi-US Investment Forum
showcased the importance of collaboration between leading enterprises of
two great nations, and we applaud President Trump and Saudi Arabia’s
crown prince Mohammed bin Salman for their leadership.” 

**Doroni Aerospace CEO and Founder Doron Merdinger:** “It was an honor
to represent Doroni Aerospace at the U.S.–Saudi Investment Forum in
Riyadh — a historic moment where American innovation met global
collaboration. This partnership, to develop and manufacture the H1-X,
next generation personal eVTOL, will directly support U.S. job creation,
help alleviate traffic through advanced personal air mobility, and
unlock new economic opportunities by reimagining how we move. This
milestone would not have been possible without President Trump’s
leadership, fostering a business environment that welcomes international
investment and accelerates next-generation technologies.”

**Parsons Corporation Chair, President, and Chief Executive Officer
Carey Smith:** “Parsons is proud to be a part of President Trump’s
initiatives to strengthen strategic relations in Saudi Arabia. As a
global infrastructure leader with a presence in the Kingdom spanning
more than six decades, Parsons has leveraged our global experience to
build trusted partnerships and deliver critical infrastructure,
supported by over 3,000 employees across the country with 50 active
projects in the Kingdom, including mega and giga projects. We are
working on some of the Kingdom’s premiere projects including the world’s
largest urban park; King Salman Park, NEOM’s THE LINE and Oxagon
projects, Soudah Peaks and Riyadh Metro, the largest driverless metro
system in the world. Our unwavering focus on the country’s future is
underlined by a combination of a dedicated team of experts and our
understanding of the local environment and vision, reinforcing our
commitment to building this nation and supporting its transformation.”

**Hill International Global CEO Raouf Ghali:** “We extend our profound
gratitude to President Trump, Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman Al Saud,
the Administrations of the United States and the Kingdom of Saudi
Arabia, and our future partner National Water Company and Lucid Motor
for their unwavering support and shared vision in making this endeavor
possible. The Trump Administration’s policies and engagements have shown
leadership and laid the groundwork for international partnerships and
investment opportunities. As we embark on this transformative journey,
we are committed to generating employment, stimulating industrial
growth, and contributing to the development of a robust infrastructure
industry in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and the United States. Together
with our esteemed partners, we are fortifying global competitiveness and
positioning ourselves as leaders in the infrastructure sector. This
represents a monumental leap forward in our mission to deliver
infrastructure top notch services.”

**Woodside CEO Meg O’Neill:** “Woodside was pleased to sign a
collaboration agreement with Aramco today as part of the U.S.-Saudi
Investment Forum, which is focused on building economic ties between the
United States and Saudi Arabia as part of the President’s goal to build
a long-term economic partnership between the two countries. Under the
collaboration agreement, Woodside and Aramco will explore global
opportunities, including Aramco’s potential acquisition of an equity
interest in and LNG offtake from the Louisiana LNG project as well as
exploring opportunities for a potential collaboration in lower-carbon
ammonia.”

**Global AI Director and CEO Sami Issa:** “The Saudi-U.S. Investment
Forum has exceeded our expectations. We are deeply grateful to President
Trump for his remarkable efforts to strengthen cooperation with our
close ally, Saudi Arabia, and to promote mutual investment in AI between
our two nations. We would be honored to invite President Trump and
Secretary Lutnick to tour our state-of-the-art, water-cooled data center
located in his home state of New York.”

**Intelligent Security Systems Chairman Richard Burns:** “We were
delighted to close our deal at the Summit. No question at all that
President Trump’s visit was the major accelerant. Our deal is proof that
you don’t need to be Fortune 500 to do well in Saudi if you have the
right products and services.”

**Phosphorus Cybersecurity CEO and Founder Chris Rouland:** “President
Trump’s historic visit to Saudi Arabia marks a significant milestone in
the enduring partnership between our countries. We are proud to support
this shared commitment to economic growth and innovation by providing
advanced cybersecurity technologies that empower the Kingdom’s Vision
2030 while also driving technological leadership here in the United
States. We thank the Trump administration for its policies that promote
global collaboration and open new opportunities for American technology
companies to contribute to critical digital infrastructure projects
around the world.”

**Hydrotech CEO Tarek Khouri:** “President Donald Trump’s historic visit
to Saudi Arabia marks a significant milestone in the enduring
partnership between the United States and the Kingdom. At HydroTech
Environmental Engineering and Geology DPC, we take immense pride in
contributing to this collaboration by delivering innovative
environmental and infrastructure solutions that drive economic growth
and sustainability. We sincerely appreciate President Trump’s leadership
and his administration’s commitment to fostering international
cooperation, foreign investment, and technological advancement. These
policies have paved the way for strengthened economic ties and new
opportunities that benefit industries across both nations. We remain
dedicated to leveraging our US and international expertise to support
this evolving partnership and to create lasting positive impacts for a
sustainable future. Thank you, President Trump, for upholding your
commitment to Make America Great Again and for implementing policies
that have reinforced America’s global leadership toward a new golden
age.”

**Science Technology Co CEO Eng. Idris Al-Zakari:** “The unprecedented
opportunity provided by President Trump’s historic visit to the Kingdom
underscores and surpasses the evolutionary relationship between Saudi
Arabia and the United States of America.  The spectacular investment
package negotiated between the two allies is the most significant step
forward for the two nations since the meeting between Franklin Roosevelt
and King Abdualaziz aboard the USS Quincy during WW-II.”

**Cimcor, Inc. President and CEO Robert E. Johnson, III:** “This moment
marks more than a business milestone—it’s a symbol of what’s possible
when American innovation aligns with visionary leadership in the Gulf.
Through this partnership, we are helping to build a digital future
that’s more secure, more resilient, and deeply connected across borders.
We’re proud to contribute to Vision 2030 and thank the Administration
for fostering global cooperation that drives real progress.”

**Enfield Investment Partners Chairman and Co-Founder Jake
Silverstein:** “It is an extraordinary honor to be part of President
Trump’s historic visit to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, and to witness
the collaboration between President Trump and His Royal Highness Crown
Prince Mohammed bin Salman. Enfield Investment Partners is built on the
belief that sports is a universal language. Enfield invests in sports
teams, leagues, and sports-focused real estate that drive economic
value, uplift communities, and bring people together around the shared
experience of sports. The sports ecosystem in the United States is the
strongest and best in the world because core to our national identity
are the traits that make sports so compelling: competition, meritocracy,
and constantly seeking the leading edge of excellence. A portion of our
Fund is directed to developing the Saudi Arabian sports ecosystem. I
would like to thank President Trump for leading a transformation and
ushering in a new Golden Age and His Royal Highness the Crown Prince
Mohammed bin Salman, a once-in-history visionary leader whose bravery
and determination has rapidly propelled the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. Our
two countries have been friends for eighty years, but this visit marks
the start of a new chapter, built on mutual trust, shared vision, and an
exciting new path.”

**Tricion Defense Group President and CEO Eng. Nasr al-Ghrairi:** “We
extend our sincere congratulations to President Trump on his historic
visit to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, a moment that marks a renewed and
elevated chapter in U.S.–Saudi relations. We deeply appreciate the
Administration’s vision and policies that continue to foster bilateral
engagement, unlock economic opportunity, and reinforce America’s global
industrial leadership. Tricion Defense Group is proud to stand at the
forefront of this strategic transformation. As one of the largest
private U.S. direct investment in Saudi Arabia’s defense sector, we are
not only enabling the Kingdom to localize critical capabilities in
electronic warfare, air defense, and C4I—but we are also contributing to
U.S. economic growth by injecting capital into innovation, technology
development, and advanced manufacturing across both nations. This SR4
billion ($1.06 billion) commitment—announced in partnership with NESMA
Information and Technologies (NIT)—represents more than an MOU; it is a
declaration of our belief that Saudi Arabia must lead from the front—not
follow. It is also a bold affirmation of our support for the American
innovation engine, which remains the most valuable strategic asset of
the United States. President Trump’s visit has reignited a new era of
industrial alignment between our two nations. Through this investment,
we are laying the foundation for a next-generation model of defense
collaboration: faster, bolder, and unapologetically strategic. We thank
the leadership of both nations, especially Crown Prince Mohammed bin
Salman Al Saud, for enabling a partnership of this scale and
consequence.”

### **<u>U.S.-Qatar Deals</u>**

**Boeing President and CEO Kelly Ortberg:** “We are grateful for the
trust Qatar Airways has placed in us with this historic order, the
largest-ever for Boeing’s widebody planes, including the largest-ever
purchase of 787 Dreamliners and more 777X jets. Thank you to President
Trump for supporting the agreement, which grows our longstanding
partnership with the airline. As one of America’s top exporters, Boeing
is proud that our aircraft sales to global customers strengthen U.S.
manufacturing and sustain jobs in our factories and at suppliers across
the United States.”

**GE Aerospace Chairman and CEO H. Lawrence Culp, Jr.:** “We are
extremely honored to deepen our relationship with Qatar Airways and
grateful to them for placing their trust in us with our largest ever
widebody engine deal. Our widebody engines – the GE9X and GEnx – are
marvels of modern engineering, with the durability and reliability to
power flight across the longest distances. We appreciate President
Trump’s support for this historic agreement.”

**Northrop Grumman Spokesperson:** “Northrop Grumman has a long history
of delivering advanced defense technologies to Qatar. Thanks to the
President’s leadership, we have a historic opportunity to accelerate
security cooperation and defense technology sales that will greatly
expand U.S. jobs and economic strength.”

**Quantinuum President and CEO Dr. Rajeeb Hazra:** “Quantinuum is deeply
committed to advancing quantum capabilities with partners like Qatar to
further solidify U.S. innovation and global leadership in a technology
critical to our collective future. We are honored to be highlighted as
part of this historic visit by the President of the United States to
Qatar and look forward to helping create the future of our industry.”

**Lockheed Martin Chairman, President and CEO Jim Taiclet:** “At
Lockheed Martin, supporting American armed forces and our international
defense partners drives everything we do. We build the most advanced
integrated air and missile defense systems with cutting-edge radars.
Thanks to President Trump’s leadership, we will help accelerate Qatar’s
next-generation air and missile defense capabilities, enabling a more
secure and stable region, sustaining American manufacturing jobs, and
reinforcing our defense industrial base.”

**Parsons Corporation Chair, President, and CEO Carey Smith:** “I’m
proud to be here on behalf of Parsons, and to be a part of President
Trump’s initiatives to strengthen strategic relations in Qatar. As a
global infrastructure leader with over six decades of experience in the
region, including two-plus decades in Qatar, Parsons has partnered with
organizations across the country to deliver on many of its premier
infrastructure projects in Doha, Lusail, and beyond.”

**McDermott International President and CEO Michael McKelvy:** “The
partnership between McDermott, Qatar Energy and The State of Qatar has
been developed over decades. We remain committed to bringing McDermott’s
+100 years of experience to support Qatar’s energy development plans for
decades to come and were honored to be part of this historic visit by
the President.”

### **<u>U.S.-United Arab Emirates Deals</u>**

**Saildrone CEO Richard Jenkins:** “This groundbreaking deal unites the
best of American innovation with a partner committed to regional
security and stability. We are proud to play our part in President
Trump’s vision, for regional maritime superiority, to enable the safe
passage of trade and the interception of illegal or destabilizing
activity, throughout the Middle East region.”

**Occidental President and CEO Vicki Hollub**: “We are proud to
participate in President Trump’s visit to the UAE, where we signed a
strategic energy enhancing agreement with our longstanding partner
ADNOC, whose investment company XRG will consider making a $500 million
investment in the United States, alongside a grant award from the U.S.
DOE, to advance Occidental’s South Texas Direct Air Capture Hub,
Development of DAC is essential for ensuring our country’s long-term
energy security. We also signed an agreement with ADNOC to examine the
expansion of production at our successful joint venture energy
development project in the UAE’s Shah Gas field, using U.S.
technologies.”

**Oracle CEO Safra Catz:** “In support of President Trump’s vision and
commitment to peace through prosperity and the Abraham Accords, the
greatest diplomatic accomplishment in modern history, we are pleased to
continue to invest in and deliver cloud and AI technology to power the
UAE’s most important systems. Our Oracle Cloud Infrastructure footprint,
Oracle Alloy sovereign cloud partnerships, and groundbreaking work in
healthcare will help accelerate the UAE’s technology modernization
efforts and advance patient health outcomes. Together, the UAE and U.S.
will redefine what is possible in technology, business, and healthcare.”

**Boeing President and CEO Kelly Ortberg**: “As one of the launch
customers for the 777X, Etihad is a valued customer, and we are grateful
for the airline’s continued confidence in Boeing. We appreciate the
support of the President and his administration as we partner with
Etihad to enable their growth while sustaining highly skilled U.S.
manufacturing jobs.”

**Northrop Grumman Spokesperson:** “Just as we have invested in the UAE,
such as Northrop Grumman’s grant to the American Community School in Abu
Dhabi, we welcome increased partnership and investment by the UAE in our
world-class defense sector. This historic trip will increase U.S. jobs
and economic strength.”

**Lockheed Martin Chairman, President, and CEO Jim Taiclet:** “Through
President Trump’s leadership, Lockheed Martin and the United Arab
Emirates are building on 50 years of partnership to strengthen regional
defense with advanced airpower, integrated air and missile defense,
precision radars, and next-generation command and control. Our high-tech
innovation benefits both nations by sustaining American manufacturing
jobs and driving industrial growth.”

**Parsons Chair, President, and CEO Carey Smith:** “Parsons is proud to
be a part of President Trump’s initiatives to strengthen strategic
relations in the UAE. As a global infrastructure leader with a presence
in the Emirates spanning nearly five decades, Parsons has leveraged our
global experience to build trusted partnerships and deliver critical
infrastructure, supported by 2,700 employees across the country and have
successfully completed more than 3,000 projects. We have worked on some
of the UAE’s premiere projects including the region’s first metro line
in Dubai, the iconic Infinity Bridge, Dubai Municipality’s Strategic
Sewerage Tunnel project, the Sharjah and Abu Dhabi International
Airports and Etihad Rail, the region’s first high speed rail network.
Our unwavering focus on the country’s future is underlined by a
combination of a dedicated team of experts and our understanding of the
local environment and vision, reinforcing our commitment to building
this nation and supporting its transformation.”

**Baker Hughes CEO Lorenzo Simonelli**: “We congratulate President Trump
on his historic visit to the United Arab Emirates — A key moment that
underscores the enduring partnership between two nations committed to
innovation, progress, and shared prosperity. As we look to the future,
energy will remain central to economic growth and broader cooperation
that supports stability and opportunity for both countries, and Baker
Hughes remains steadfast in our dedication to help both nations meet
their goals.”
