---
date: '2025-05-08'
modified_time: 2025-05-09 09:43:27-04:00
published_time: 2025-05-08 17:40:49-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/2025/05/great-deal-for-america-president-trumps-breakthrough-trade-deal/
tags: articles
title: "GREAT DEAL FOR AMERICA: President Trump\u2019s \u201CBreakthrough\u201D Trade\
  \ Deal"
---
 
In February, President Donald J. Trump
[promised](https://www.reuters.com/markets/us-britain-will-have-trade-agreement-trump-says-alongside-starmer-2025-02-27/)
“a great trade agreement” with the United Kingdom — and today he
delivered with a
“[breakthrough](https://www.whitehouse.gov/past-events/%F0%9F%9A%A8-a-good-deal-trump-announces-the-first-breakthrough-trade-deal-between-america-and-the-u-k/)”
trade deal that expands market access, curbs non-tariff barriers, and
levels the playing field for American exporters.

**Promises made, promises kept — and he’s just getting started.**

It’s the first such deal under President Trump’s transformational plan
to liberate Americans from globalist trade policies that make foreign
countries rich while Americans get robbed. It’s all part of President
Trump’s vision of economic prosperity: fair trade, historic tax cuts,
deregulation, and a manufacturing revival that will cement America’s new
Golden Age for decades to come.

**Here’s what they’re saying:**  
  
[National Cattlemen’s Beef Association President Buck
Wehrbein](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1920524926869512590):
“With this trade deal, President Trump has delivered a tremendous win
for American family farmers and ranchers. For years, American cattle
producers have seen the United Kingdom as an ideal partner for trade.
Between our countries’ shared history, culture, and their desire for
high-quality American beef, securing a trade agreement is a natural step
forward. Thank you President Trump for fighting for American cattle
producers.”

[Renewable Fuels Association President and CEO Geoff
Cooper](https://ethanolrfa.org/media-and-news/category/news-releases/article/2025/05/rfa-thanks-president-for-securing-greater-market-access-for-ethanol-in-uk-trade-agreement):
“We sincerely thank President Trump and his trade negotiators for
ensuring that American-made ethanol is an important part of the trade
agreement announced today with the United Kingdom. While we are still
awaiting the specific details of the agreement, we are excited about the
prospects of expanded market access that will help boost our farm
economy, while also delivering lower-cost, cleaner fuel to UK drivers.”

[National Corn Growers Association President Kenneth Hartman,
Jr.](https://ncga.com/stay-informed/media/in-the-news/article/2025/05/ncga-expresses-support-for-uk-trade-agreement):
“This is great news. We applaud President Trump and his administration
for brokering this deal, and we encourage them to continue to include
corn, corn ethanol and corn co-products in future bilateral agreements
with other countries.”

[International Dairy Foods Association President and CEO Michael Dykes,
D.V.M.](https://www.dairyfoods.com/articles/98193-idfa-applauds-us-uk-trade-announcement):
“On behalf of America’s dairy processors and producers, IDFA applauds
President Trump’s announcement today that the United States and the
United Kingdom have reached the terms for a significant trade deal
between our two markets that promises to expand access for U.S.
agricultural goods, reduce tariffs, and remove barriers to trade … For
too long, the UK has limited America’s food and agricultural exports to
the world’s sixth largest economy and now President Trump’s deal
promises to level the playing field. IDFA looks forward to studying the
details of this agreement as they emerge, especially specifics on relief
and new market access opportunities for U.S. dairy products. The United
States offers the world’s most wholesome, high-quality and affordable
dairy products and IDFA is excited to work with our member companies to
bring these delicious products to more consumers in the United Kingdom.”

[Growth Energy CEO Emily
Skor](https://growthenergy.org/2025/05/08/uk-trade-deal/): “In terms of
trade with the UK, the American ethanol industry had its best year ever
last year of exports valued at over $535 million. This trade agreement
puts us on track to set another record, all to the benefit of American
farmers, biofuel producers, and UK consumers. We look forward to
learning more, and finding new ways to help the UK achieve its economic
and environmental goals through the increased use of American biofuels.
We commend the President and his team for making this deal and creating
new opportunities for American ethanol and rural America.”

[National Association of State Departments of Agriculture CEO Ted
McKinney](https://www.nasda.org/state-departments-of-agriculture-applaud-u-s-u-k-trade-deal-reinforce-commitment-to-agricultural-partnership/):
“This agreement marks a significant step forward for U.S. farmers and
ranchers, and U.K. agriculture and consumers as well. We applaud the
leadership of both governments in forging a partnership that opens new
markets in both countries.”

[Job Creators Network CEO Alfredo
Ortiz](https://www.jobcreatorsnetwork.com/press_releases/job-creators-network-celebrates-trumps-trade-deal-with-the-uk/):
“Trump’s trade deal with the United Kingdom is a big victory for small
businesses, American consumers, and the Trump administration itself. By
reducing tariffs and trade barriers, American small businesses will be
able to expand their markets and more easily sell to the relatively
wealthy UK, whose population is 70 million. American consumers —
including small businesses — will also get cheaper access to British
goods. President Trump’s tough tariff stance is starting to pay
dividends in the form of fairer and freer trade deals that put America
first. The many more deals to come will greatly improve the small
business economy, financial markets, and American prosperity.”

[Consumer Brands Association President and CEO Melissa
Hockstad](https://consumerbrandsassociation.org/press-releases/consumer-brands-issues-statement-on-the-trump-administrations-uk-trade-deal/):
“Consumer Brands commends the Trump administration’s successful
completion of a comprehensive trade deal with the United Kingdom. As
President Trump and his team pursues the America First Trade Policy
agenda, the consumer packaged goods industry — America’s largest
domestic manufacturing sector by employment — supports the creation of
new opportunities for U.S. businesses and efforts to address unfair
trade barriers around the world. As the administration continues to
pursue deals with other countries, we encourage U.S. trade
representatives to examine the needs of different manufacturing sectors
and prioritize maintaining access to unavailable natural resources.
Ensuring continued trade flows of those key ingredients, which are not
available from U.S. sources, is critical to achieving the president’s
economic vision, fighting grocery inflation and protecting the 22.3
million American jobs supported by food, beverage, household and
personal care manufacturers.”

[Business Roundtable CEO Joshua
Bolten](https://www.businessroundtable.org/business-roundtable-welcomes-u-s-uk-trade-deal):
“Business Roundtable applauds President Trump for reaching a trade deal
with the United Kingdom that expands market access for U.S. exports. We
welcome commitments from both governments to continue working to resolve
other trade issues and encourage them to address the United Kingdom’s
digital services taxes, which unfairly disadvantage American companies.”

[Coalition for a Prosperous America Chairman Zach
Mottl](https://prosperousamerica.org/cpa-applauds-trump-administration-for-prioritizing-revenue-and-protection-in-new-u-s-uk-trade-deal/):
“This deal is a clear validation of President Trump’s America First
trade strategy. By maintaining the 10% baseline tariff and capping UK
auto imports at 100,000 vehicles per year before higher tariffs apply,
the administration is demonstrating that trade policy can and should be
used to protect and rebuild domestic industry. This is exactly the kind
of strategic, outcomes-focused approach we’ve been advocating.”

**HSBC USA President & CEO Lisa McGeough:** “Today’s landmark US – UK
trade agreement marks a significant step in strengthening transatlantic
economic ties and expanding opportunities for businesses and investors.
As a British-headquartered bank with a strong US footprint, we’re
uniquely positioned to help American companies and investors seize new
growth opportunities domestically, in the UK, and beyond. In the US, we
stand ready to leverage our position as the world’s leading trade bank
to facilitate cross-border commerce, support job creation, and drive
investment. We commend the administration on the first of what we hope
will be many forward-looking trade agreements.”

[American Farm Bureau Federation President Zippy
Duvall](https://www.fb.org/news-release/farm-bureau-encouraged-by-u-k-trade-deal):
“Farm Bureau appreciates the work between the administration and the
United Kingdom to secure a new trade agreement. We have long advocated
for new trade deals, and this is an important first step in expanding
markets in the four countries … We’re encouraged by progress to create
market opportunities for farmers.”

[Wisconsin Manufacturers and Commerce President and CEO Kurt
Bauer](https://www.wispolitics.com/2025/wmc-issues-statement-on-u-s-trade-deal-with-uk/):
“Securing this landmark agreement with the UK is an important step
forward for American manufacturers and workers. Strengthening our
relationship with a key partner, the deal begins the process of clearing
economic uncertainty and provides clarity and stability that Wisconsin
manufacturers need to plan for long-term growth. WMC applauds President
Trump for delivering an agreement that strengthens our economic
landscape, and we look forward to similar deals to come.”

[Nebraska Gov. Jim
Pillen](https://x.com/TeamPillen/status/1920506823590773225): “Trade
matters to Nebraska because our farmers and ranchers produce the
absolute best – and feed the world. America’s relationship with the U.K.
is longstanding, and there is great potential for expanded trade between
our countries. President Trump and his administration know that we need
more trade with fewer barriers, and they are working around the clock to
finalize trade deals with partners across the globe. That’s good news
for Nebraska.”

[Iowa Secretary of Agriculture Mike
Naig](https://iowaagriculture.gov/news/trade-announcement-UK): “A new
trade deal with a key ally like the United Kingdom is great news and so
I am very encouraged by President Trump’s announcement today. I am
particularly pleased to hear the President tout expanded market access
for ethanol, beef, and, as he put it, ‘virtually all the products
produced by our great farmers’ … Today’s trade announcement demonstrates
that there is real progress being made toward opening additional markets
for Iowa products across the globe. I hope this deal is the first of
many that will be announced with other trading partners in the coming
weeks and months.”

[Senate Majority Whip John
Barrasso](https://x.com/SenJohnBarrasso/status/1920529757579493403):
“It’s good to have the dealmaker-in-chief back in the White House.
President Trump’s historic trade deal with the U.K. will mean more jobs
and increased investment right here in America. More promises kept.”

[Sen. Jim Banks](https://x.com/SenatorBanks/status/1920513410862600718):
“Art of the Deal!”

[Sen. John
Boozman](https://x.com/JohnBoozman/status/1920563400066617385): “I just
spoke on the phone with USTR Ambassador Greer to discuss the good news.
He’s doing a great job, and I look forward to working with him and
@SecRollins to ensure agriculture market access remains a priority as
the details continue to be worked out.”

[Sen. John Cornyn](https://x.com/JohnCornyn/status/1920425799414419817):
“@POTUS Donald Trump will unveil his first post-Liberation Day trade
deal this morning — a “major” agreement with the United Kingdom on
rolling back tariffs.”

[Sen. Joni
Ernst](https://x.com/SenJoniErnst/status/1920520075682996353):
“President Trump continues to deliver and is opening new markets for
Iowa farmers!”

[Sen. Bill
Hagerty](https://x.com/SenatorHagerty/status/1920506802195542098): “No
surprise that our Dealmaker-in-Chief President Donald Trump is rapidly
delivering on his promise to ensure our trading partners are operating
in good faith and that America is being treated fairly. The deal the
President struck with the UK is proof that countries are responding to
tariffs and want to enter into trade agreements with the United States
that benefit both parties. I look forward to many more announcements in
the near future.”

[Sen. Roger
Marshall](https://x.com/RogerMarshallMD/status/1920508882973016249):
“Promises made. Promises kept. We are opening up new markets for our
world class Kansas beef! Big win.”

[Sen. Jerry Moran](https://x.com/JerryMoran/status/1920549416441622683):
“The UK offers a strategic market for American aviation & agricultural
products. I introduced legislation earlier this year to lay the
groundwork for a strong bilateral trade relationship, & President
Trump’s announcement of a new trade agreement with the UK is a positive
step forward.”

[Sen. Bernie
Moreno](https://x.com/berniemoreno/status/1920505678344368612): “An
absolutely historic pro America deal by the most pro America President
of my lifetime. We will no longer be ripped off and will no longer
tolerate trade imbalances that have destroyed the opportunities for
working Americans.”

[Sen. Eric
Schmitt](https://x.com/SenEricSchmitt/status/1920482154175246660):
“After years of getting ripped off, America is finally playing to win.
More exports, more products made here, and record-breaking investment
thanks to President Trump’s trade deals.”

[Sen. Rick
Scott](https://x.com/SenRickScott/status/1920492418383728659): “Great
news! Thank you, President Trump, for working with our allies while
putting America first and protecting American jobs!”

[Sen. Tim Sheehy](https://x.com/TimSheehyMT/status/1920516350063046702):
“The Art of the Deal. President Trump just delivered a huge win for
hardworking Americans. Let’s keep them coming!”

[Sen. Thom
Tillis](https://x.com/SenThomTillis/status/1920495696349720720): “A big
win secured by @POTUS with the United Kingdom, our greatest ally and one
of our largest trade partners. This is a significant step toward
establishing fair and mutually beneficial trade relationships with our
global partners.”

[Sen. Tommy
Tuberville](https://x.com/SenTuberville/status/1920504617479160145):
“Today’s trade deal with the UK is the first of many to come. Like I
always say: Never bet against @realDonaldTrump. THE ART OF THE DEAL”

[House Majority Whip Tom
Emmer](mailto:House%20Majority%20Whip%20Tom%20Emmer): “The master
negotiator succeeds again. @POTUS promised to bring our trading partners
to the table and secure deals that put AMERICA FIRST—and that’s exactly
what he did. More to come!”

[House Republican Conference Chair Lisa
McClain](https://x.com/RepLisaMcClain/status/1920504463833317572):
“Promises Made, Promises KEPT! @POTUS brought countries to the
negotiation table and has already DELIVERED a historic trade deal.”

[House Republican Leadership Chair Elise
Stefanik](https://x.com/RepStefanik/status/1920497171918438510):
“President @realDonaldTrump delivers AGAIN. Thanks to his bold
leadership and tough tariffs, the UK is the first to come to the
table—with a new trade deal that puts American workers and businesses
FIRST. This is what economic strength and real leadership looks like.
Fair trade. Better deals. America wins.”

[Rep. Mark
Alford](https://x.com/RepMarkAlford/status/1920498760234221632): “Fact
check: President Trump’s tariff strategy works. Boosting American
manufacturing and fighting for our farmers. ANOTHER WIN FOR AMERICA.”

[Rep. Rick
Allen](https://x.com/RepRickAllen/status/1920497883658190953): “Another
VICTORY! @POTUS is bringing our trading partners to the table and
securing billions in new market access for American workers, businesses,
and producers. Today’s trade deal with the U.K. will be the first of
many. Economic strength is national strength!”

[Rep. Don Bacon](https://x.com/RepDonBacon/status/1920552010459271252):
“I congratulate @POTUS on striking a trade deal with the U.K. While we
wait for the finer details of the agreement, including more than $700
million in ethanol exports and $250 million in other AG products like
beef, every Nebraskan will surely feel it.”

[Rep. Aaron
Bean](https://x.com/RepAaronBean/status/1920535118218707109): “President
Trump announced the first historic trade deal with the UK—something the
legacy media said was ‘impossible.’ Today’s deal will make our economy
stronger, put American workers first, and unleash the full potential of
American industry.”

[Rep. Vern
Buchanan](https://buchanan.house.gov/2025/5/buchanan-applauds-historic-u-s-uk-trade-deal):
“President Trump has once again delivered for the American people with a
historic trade agreement that puts our workers and businesses first.
This new deal with the United Kingdom dramatically expands access for
American exports—especially agriculture—and levels the playing field for
our manufacturers.”

[Rep. Tim
Burchett](https://x.com/RepTimBurchett/status/1920567769814168030):
“.@realDonaldTrump is fulfilling his promise to protect American workers
and businesses. The UK trade deal slashes tariffs against the U.S. and
is Making America Prosperous Again.”

[Rep. Buddy
Carter](https://x.com/RepBuddyCarter/status/1920532909640872128): “This
new trade deal with the United Kingdom is just the start to the Golden
Age of America. President Trump is keeping his promise, bringing fair
trade to America by using the art of the deal!”

[Rep. Andrew Clyde](https://x.com/Rep_Clyde/status/1920506452013088950):
“ART OF THE DEAL in action!”

[Rep. Mike
Collins](https://x.com/RepMikeCollins/status/1920496905127084120):
“President Trump’s tariff strategy works. Today’s trade deal with the
U.K. will make our economy stronger and put American workers first. The
only people upset are the Democrats and liberal media who wanted him to
fail.”

[Rep. Warren
Davidson](https://x.com/Rep_Davidson/status/1920507868266090566): “A
glaring example of why we need to trust President Trump’s tariff
strategy—it’s working. Stay the course.”

[Rep. Pat
Fallon](https://x.com/RepPatFallon/status/1920499132512260453): “Another
day, another deal!”

[Rep. Michelle
Fischbach](https://x.com/RepFischbach/status/1920514643639849267): “More
promises made and kept by @POTUS. He said he would hold our trade
partners accountable and put America first, and he’s delivering. This is
just the beginning!”

[Rep. Julie
Fedorchak](https://x.com/RepFedorchak/status/1920528950062715062):
“@POTUS is delivering exactly what our producers need. North Dakota
grows and raises some of the best products in the world, and now we have
greater access to one of the world’s largest markets. This is just the
first of many trade victories to come under President Trump!”

[Rep. Chuck
Fleischmann](https://x.com/RepChuck/status/1920513900518232521): “@POTUS
is ending decades of unfair trade deals that have ripped off the
American People and is moving at lightning speed to negotiate and
deliver America First trade deals. The US-UK trade deal announced today
is historic and is only just the beginning!”

[Rep. Mike
Flood](https://x.com/USRepMikeFlood/status/1920550934251282567): “Over
the last four years, President Biden did nothing on trade. Within a
matter of months, President Trump’s dealmaking experience resulted in a
trade deal with the United Kingdom, one of our country’s oldest allies.”

[Rep. Virginia
Foxx](https://x.com/virginiafoxx/status/1920511702006682004): “The Art
of The Deal.”

[Rep. Lance
Gooden](https://x.com/Lancegooden/status/1920506513958768643): “In four
years, Joe Biden signed ZERO major trade deals. In just over 100 days,
President Trump negotiated and signed a major trade deal with the United
Kingdom. America is leading once again.”

[Rep. Mark
Green](https://x.com/RepMarkGreen/status/1920525968302616821): “Once
again, the Negotiator-in-Chief is closing deals to safeguard American
manufacturers and grow our trade bigger and better than ever. On Victory
in Europe Day, there isn’t a better anniversary to solidify our
partnership with the United Kingdom.”

[Rep. Marjorie Taylor
Greene](https://x.com/RepMTG/status/1920557512115318898): “Another
incredible trade deal just secured by President Trump! The Golden Age of
America is here!!”

[Rep. Diana
Harshbarger](https://x.com/RepHarshbarger/status/1920503185094918218):
“This is a HUGE WIN! Because of @POTUS’s leadership, America is securing
historic economic deals—and this is just the beginning!”

[Rep. Ashley
Hinson](https://x.com/RepAshleyHinson/status/1920501892695613862): “Huge
win—and many more to come! @POTUS is fighting to right the wrongs of the
past, return to fair trade, and build a more abundant America. Thank you
for prioritizing new market opportunities for Iowa’s farmers and
biofuels producers.”

[Rep. Richard
Hudson](https://x.com/RepRichHudson/status/1920505848943530431): “This
is what decisive leadership looks like. Thank you, @POTUS!”

[Rep. Wesley Hunt](https://x.com/RepWPH/status/1920495273714896981):
“Economic Security IS National Security — and PRESIDENT TRUMP is doing
it again! This HISTORIC DEAL delivers:  
A stronger industrial base  
Tougher export controls  
Protection of U.S. tech  
Boosted steel production  
This is the Art of the Deal — the world is taking notes!”

[Rep. Jim Jordan](https://x.com/Jim_Jordan/status/1920507966807036345):
“President Trump’s trade deal with the UK is the first of many to come.
There’s no better negotiator. There’s no one better to fix Joe Biden’s
broken economy.”  
  
[Rep. Young Kim](https://x.com/RepYoungKim/status/1920530388411150764):
“I’m glad to see the Trump administration work with our ally Britain to
promote fair trade and expand market opportunity for U.S. agricultural
producers.”

[Rep. David
Kustoff](https://x.com/RepDavidKustoff/status/1920521830814646362):
“Today, @POTUS unveiled a historic U.S.-UK trade deal. $5B in new market
access, $6B in tariff revenue, and a stronger alliance! @realdonaldtrump
keeps delivering on his promises! This is America First!”

[Rep. Barry
Loudermilk](https://x.com/RepLoudermilk/status/1920514066147098832):
“America has spent far too long on the losing end of global trade.
President Trump pledged to put America’s interests first, and he is
doing so beginning with this trade deal with one of our oldest allies.
\#promiseskept.”

[Rep. Tom
McClintock](https://x.com/RepMcClintock/status/1920534039561142282):
“The freer the trade, the greater the benefits for all countries
involved. The UK agreement takes us in the right direction. Let’s keep
going toward a new golden age of global free trade and the peace and
prosperity it produces.”

[Rep. Dan Meuser](https://x.com/RepMeuser/status/1920524402049102102):
“This is a strong step forward. Fairer trade, lower energy costs, and
pro-growth tax policies will keep driving investment here at home. I
also laid out how we can responsibly reduce spending while extending key
provisions of President Trump’s Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which delivered
significant benefits for families and small businesses.”

[Rep. Mary
Miller](https://x.com/RepMaryMiller/status/1920511398162866569): “THE
ART OF THE DEAL!”

[Rep. Riley
Moore](https://x.com/RepRileyMoore/status/1920495264156045533):
“Absolute genius to announce this deal on V-E Day!”

[Rep. Troy
Nehls](https://x.com/RepTroyNehls/status/1920504463162306949): President
Trump is the Dealmaker in Chief. He has reached a historic trade deal
with the United Kingdom. President Trump and his entire administration
are working hard to protect American industries, protect American
workers, and grow our economy. AMERICA FIRST!”

[Rep. Ralph
Norman](https://x.com/RepRalphNorman/status/1920516831388819592):
“MASSIVE win for our farmers who will have the opportunity for a wider
range in markets!! Art of the deal.”

[Rep. Andy Ogles](https://x.com/RepOgles/status/1920499543705084203):
“President Trump delivers again!! This deal will bring billions home and
make America stronger, richer, and more respected. A huge win for the
American people.”

[Rep. Gary
Palmer](https://x.com/USRepGaryPalmer/status/1920499064904298841): “A
win for our nation secured by President Trump! This is what it looks
like to have leadership in the White House.”

[Rep. August
Pfluger](https://x.com/RepPfluger/status/1920505407631409236):
“President Trump just secured a huge trade deal—one I believe will be
the first of many. This massive win for all Americans brings us one step
closer to restoring fair trade policies.”

[Rep. Adrian
Smith](https://x.com/RepAdrianSmith/status/1920562682626748895): “I’m
pleased the Trump administration has struck an initial trade deal with
one of our nation’s greatest trade partners and longest-standing allies.
This is a significant step toward eliminating barriers to American
products in foreign markets and friendshoring supply chains. I commend
President Trump and his administration for conducting negotiations
swiftly to the mutual benefit of our producers, job creators, and
consumers. This agreement builds upon the groundwork laid in the
President’s first term, and I am pleased the administration has
indicated it continues to pursue dynamic dialogue with the United
Kingdom to address additional concerns.”

[Rep. Marlin
Stutzman](https://x.com/RepStutzman/status/1920508229575909612): “As
@POTUS says, the first of many, this is a great day for America! A
combination of Trump’s trade deals and the passage of the One Big
Beautiful Bill will make our country strong for generations to come.”

[Rep. Claudia
Tenney](https://x.com/RepTenney/status/1920557281973866861): “.@POTUS is
continuing to put America FIRST, working to strengthen our economy &
national security by achieving historic trade deals. This is a huge win
for American manufacturers & farmers, & there is only more winning to
come!”

[Rep. Beth Van
Duyne](https://x.com/RepBethVanDuyne/status/1920524628725760208): “The
first of many historic trade deals!! Better market access for US
products!”

[Rep. Daniel
Webster](https://x.com/RepWebster/status/1920522038676238555): “Once
again, @POTUS delivers for the American people by securing a historic
trade deal with our key ally, the United Kingdom. This agreement lowers
trade barriers, opening $5 billion of increased market access for
American exports, especially for American farmers. Thank you President
Trump for putting America’s farmers, businesses, and workers first!”

[Rep. Tony Wied](https://x.com/RepTonyWied/status/1920514173894578295):
“The Art of the Deal.”

[Rep. Rudy
Yakym](https://x.com/RepRudyYakym/status/1920519977385259333):
“President Trump is bringing countries to the table and securing fair
trade deals. The first of many!”

[Rep. Ryan
Zinke](https://x.com/RepRyanZinke/status/1920536641988358522): “Great
news for Montana! The UK is our 6th largest trade partner and this will
help that grow!”

[House Committee on
Agriculture](https://x.com/HouseAgGOP/status/1920494751465222605): “This
announcement is a big win for American agriculture! @POTUS is unlocking
billions in new market access for U.S. exports like beef, ethanol, and
more—boosting our GREAT farmers and rural economies!”

[Republican Study
Committee](https://x.com/RepublicanStudy/status/1920510162327978267):
“Another day, another historic deal secured by President Trump! This is
a MASSIVE victory for American workers. PROMISES MADE, PROMISES KEPT!”
