---
date: '2025-05-27'
modified_time: 2025-05-27 12:43:41-04:00
published_time: 2025-05-27 12:43:40-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/2025/05/opinion-trump-unleashes-us-nuclear-renaissance-with-bold-executive-orders/
tags: articles
title: 'OPINION: Trump unleashes US nuclear renaissance with bold executive orders'
---
 
[**Trump Unleashes US Nuclear Renaissance with Bold Executive
Orders**](https://www.foxnews.com/opinion/trump-unleashes-us-nuclear-renaissance-bold-executive-orders)

**By Michael Kratsios**

**Fox News**

**May 24, 2025**

In his famed 1953 “[Atoms for
Peace](https://www.iaea.org/about/history/atoms-for-peace-speech)”
speech, President Eisenhower proclaimed that “the United States knows
that peaceful power from atomic energy is no dream of the future.” That
dream was soon realized, as America built more than one hundred reactors
over the next twenty-five years. But today, the promise of nuclear
energy and innovation does indeed seem like a dream of the future.

Through a series of executive orders signed this week, [President Trump
is taking
action](https://www.foxnews.com/politics/trump-signs-executive-orders-bolstering-nuclear-industry-domestic-uranium-mining) to
usher in an American nuclear renaissance. For the first time in many
years, America has a path forward for quickly and safely testing
advanced nuclear reactor designs, constructing new nuclear reactors at
scale, and building a strong domestic nuclear industrial base.

Our stagnation was not for a lack of ingenuity or desire to innovate
among America’s great scientists and technologists. By the end of the
1970s, dozens of nuclear reactors were [planned or under
construction](https://world-nuclear.org/nuclear-reactor-database/summary/United%20States%20Of%20America).
In the past 30 years, however, only [three commercial nuclear
reactors](https://www.world-nuclear-news.org/Articles/Grid-connection-for-Vogtle-4) have
been built, and many more have
been [shuttered](https://www.wsj.com/articles/vermont-nuclear-power-plant-shut-down-as-industry-evolves-1419903597).
We know America can accomplish great feats in nuclear energy, so what
happened?

In the wake of the Three Mile Island accident in 1979, [public opinion
began to
sour](https://news.gallup.com/vault/191099/gallup-vault-nuclear-power-plant-fears-chernobyl.aspx) on
nuclear energy, and the effects of a decade of new federal bureaucracies
began to set in. Overly burdensome regulations stifled our ability to
even test, let alone deploy, new nuclear technologies. The Nuclear
Regulatory Commission (NRC) set the gold standard for safety regulation
when it was established in 1975, but it soon transformed into a lead
curtain for innovation. Onerous environmental requirements and [long,
uncertain regulatory
timelines](https://www.nei.org/CorporateSite/media/filefolder/resources/reports-and-briefs/ensuring-future-of-us-nuclear-energy-white-paper-20180123.pdf) have
killed industry’s willingness to fund new technologies.

Similarly, the Department of Defense (DOD) and the Department of
Energy’s (DOE) National Labs—which once led the world in the development
and demonstration of advanced nuclear technologies—[shuttered nuclear
development
programs](https://digital.library.unt.edu/ark:/67531/metacrs987/m1/1/high_res_d/RL30307_1999Sep17.html),
shifting focus to other priorities.  All but three of [fifty-two
reactors](https://inl.gov/52-reactors/) at Idaho National Laboratory
have been decommissioned, and it has been almost half a century since
the [Army Nuclear Power
Program](https://www.usace.army.mil/About/History/Exhibits/Nuclear-Power-Program/Experimental/) was
shut down. These decisions eroded our domestic nuclear supply chain,
undermined our national security, and left us having to relearn what we
once pioneered.

President Trump wisely recognizes that the time is ripe for an American
nuclear renaissance and is acting to deliver on the promise of nuclear
energy for the American people. Across the country, American
entrepreneurs and engineers are launching a [new
generation](https://www.cnbc.com/2025/03/29/these-nuclear-companies-lead-the-race-to-build-small-reactors-in-us.html) of
nuclear companies featuring innovative reactor designs and scalable
manufacturing techniques that can make nuclear safe, efficient, and
economic. The Trump Administration will clear their path by dismantling
outdated barriers that previous administrations had put up in their way.

Today, nuclear power plants provide approximately 19% of
the [electricity
generated](https://www.eia.gov/energyexplained/nuclear/data-and-statistics.php) in
the United States, more than solar and wind combined. That is reliable
and affordable electricity for the American people, and it could and
should be even more. The Trump Administration is setting the goal of
expanding American nuclear energy capacity from 100 GW today to 400 GW
by 2050. This week’s executive actions will help us reach that goal in
four ways.

First, we are going to fully leverage our DOE national laboratories to
increase the speed with which we test new nuclear reactor designs. There
is a big difference between a paper reactor and a practical reactor. The
only way to bridge that gap—understanding the challenges that must be
surmounted to bring reactors to the market, and building public trust in
their deployment—is to test and evaluate demonstration reactors. 

Second, for our national and economic security, we are going to leverage
the Departments of Defense and Energy to build nuclear reactors on
federally owned land. This will support critical national security needs
which require reliable, high-density power sources that are invulnerable
to external threats or grid failures.

Third, to lower regulatory burdens and shorten licensing timelines, we
are asking the NRC to undergo broad cultural change and regulatory
reform, requiring a decision on a reactor license to be issued within 18
months. This will reduce regulatory uncertainty while maintaining
nuclear safety. We will also reconsider the use of radiation limits that
are not science based, impossible to achieve, and do not increase the
safety of the American people. 

Fourth, we will be supporting our domestic nuclear industrial base
across the nuclear fuel cycle.  The President has called for industry to
start mining and enriching uranium in America again, as well as an
expansion of domestic uranium conversion capacity as well as enrichment
capabilities to meet projected civilian and defense reactor needs.

When President Eisenhower spoke about nuclear potential over 70 years
ago, he expressed no doubt that the world’s best scientists and
engineers, if empowered to “test and develop their ideas,” could turn
nuclear energy into a “universal, efficient, and economic” source of
power. In 2025, we have only to believe in American technologists, and
give them the chance to build, to turn nuclear power into energy
dominance and national security for all.
