---
date: '2025-05-19'
modified_time: 2025-05-19 22:25:56-04:00
published_time: 2025-05-19 21:42:02-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/2025/05/icymi-president-trump-signs-take-it-down-act-into-law/
tags: articles
title: 'ICYMI: President Trump Signs TAKE IT DOWN Act into Law'
---
 
Today, President Donald J. Trump
[signed](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1924549309648822471) the
[TAKE IT DOWN
Act](https://www.congress.gov/bill/119th-congress/senate-bill/146) into
law — a key initiative of First Lady Melania Trump and a landmark step
in the fight to protect victims of digital exploitation.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/05/GrWax5CXIAAmt93.jpeg"
style="width:600px" decoding="async" data-fetchpriority="high"
sizes="(max-width: 2048px) 100vw, 2048px"
srcset="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/05/GrWax5CXIAAmt93.jpeg 2048w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/05/GrWax5CXIAAmt93.jpeg?resize=600,400 600w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/05/GrWax5CXIAAmt93.jpeg?resize=768,512 768w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/05/GrWax5CXIAAmt93.jpeg?resize=1200,800 1200w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/05/GrWax5CXIAAmt93.jpeg?resize=1536,1025 1536w"
width="2048" height="1366" />
</figure>

****The signing of this critical bill received bipartisan praise on
Capitol Hill and beyond:****

[**Sen. Ted
Cruz**](https://x.com/SenTedCruz/status/1924549660456198629)**:** “The
TAKE IT DOWN ACT is an historic win for victims of revenge porn and
deepfake image abuse. Predators who weaponize new technology to post
this exploitative filth will now rightfully face criminal consequences,
and Big Tech will no longer be allowed to turn a blind eye to the spread
of this vile material. This day stands as a powerful testament to the
bravery and dedication of Elliston Berry, Francesca Mani, Breeze Liu,
and Brandon Guffey, whose relentless advocacy made this law possible. I
am deeply grateful to my legislative partners, particularly Sen. Amy
Klobuchar and First Lady Melania Trump, for their collaboration in
advancing this critical legislation to protect every American’s privacy
and dignity online.”  
  
[**Sen. Amy
Klobuchar**](https://x.com/SenAmyKlobuchar/status/1924575994674917448)**:**
“Big news: my bipartisan TAKE IT DOWN Act w/Sen. Cruz was signed into
law by the President today.  It protects victims of online abuse and set
some rules of the road for social media and AI. Thank you to the First
Lady for her support and to the advocates who made this possible.”  
  
[**Rep. Maria Elvira
Salazar**](https://x.com/RepMariaSalazar/status/1924548457362047023)**:**
“Before this law, victims were ignored. Schools couldn’t act, police had
no tools, and Big Tech looked away. With TAKE IT DOWN, that changes.
Platforms must respond — and predators will face justice. Now, victims
have the power and the law behind them.”  
  
[**X CEO Linda
Yaccarino**](https://x.com/lindayaX/status/1924584857054687696)**:**
“Honored to be at the @WhiteHouse today as @POTUS signed the Take It
Down Act. Grateful to @FLOTUS for her dedication to ensuring safety. @X
will continue to work alongside @SenTedCruz @MarshaBlackburn
@RepNancyMace and @NCMEC to do everything possible to make the internet
safer, especially for children.”  
  
[**South Carolina Attorney General Alan
Wilson**](https://www.wistv.com/2025/05/19/sc-ag-wilson-shows-support-take-it-down-act-signed-by-trump-attends-bill-signing/)**:**
“No one should have to live in fear of their most private moments being
weaponized against them. Revenge porn is a cruel and deeply violating
crime, and for too long, the law has lagged behind the technology.
Today, with President Trump’s leadership, we’re now bringing that fight
to the national stage, by standing up for survivors, holding predators
accountable, and making it absolutely clear: digital abuse is real
abuse, and it will be met with real consequences.”  
  
[**National Center for Missing & Exploited
Children**](https://x.com/NCMEC/status/1924566812869767496)**:** “Today,
@NCMEC\_CEO, Michelle DeLaune and NCMEC’s Chief Legal Officer, Yiota
Souras attended the TAKE IT DOWN Act bill signing ceremony at the White
House. We’re grateful for @POTUS and @FLOTUS prioritizing this critical
legislation and shining a light on child exploitation. This
groundbreaking new law closes a dangerous gap by targeting the
distribution of both real and digitally altered exploitative content
involving children – content that may fall outside existing CSAM
definitions – and requires social media platforms to take this imagery
down. As the Congressionally designated national clearinghouse on
missing and exploited children issues, we will continue to work with
Congress and the Administration to identify evolving threats in child
sexual exploitation and look forward to continuing our work together to
protect children online.”  
  
[**National Organization for Women President Christian F.
Nunes**](https://now.org/media-center/press-release/todays-signing-of-the-take-it-down-act-shows-bipartisan-support-for-fighting-deepfakes-and-online-sexual-abuse-now-lets-do-more/)**:**
“Today, President Donald Trump signed into law the Take It Down Act—the
first bipartisan legislation that zeroes in on one of the most
pernicious threats to women’s health and safety—the theft of our bodily
autonomy through deepfake images used to harass and exploit women and
girls … Today’s signing shows how much can be done when we get out of
the silos that separate us from issue to issue and work together on the
values and common goals that unite us despite those differences. When it
comes to protecting women and girls from online abuse, this work is just
beginning.”  
  
[**Sen. Marsha
Blackburn**](https://x.com/MarshaBlackburn/status/1924553829908971605)**:**
“I was pleased to be at the White House to witness the signing of The
Take It Down Act, which will criminalize the distribution of
nonconsensual intimate imagery. I will be working to get the Kids Online
Safety Act to President Trump’s desk next to hold Big Tech accountable
for failing to protect innocent children from online harms.”  
  
[**Sen. Shelley Moore
Capito**](https://x.com/SenCapito/status/1924558753292288516)**:** “I am
proud to be an original cosponsor on the TAKE IT DOWN Act. This
important legislation will protect victims of digital exploitation by
making non-consensual, explicit images shared online against the law.
Thank you to @FLOTUS for your work on this issue and for @POTUS signing
it into law today.”  
  
[**Sen. John
Cornyn**](https://x.com/JohnCornyn/status/1924563746086867271)**:** “I
was honored to join @POTUS + @FLOTUS at the @WhiteHouse today for the
signing of the TAKE IT DOWN Act. This bill will help punish predators &
protect kids from exploitation by requiring online platforms to remove
explicit images, including AI generated deepfakes, within 48 hours.
Happy to see this commonsense bill signed into law!”  
  
[**Sen. Catherine Cortez
Masto**](https://x.com/SenCortezMasto/status/1924608497439617426)**:**
“I’m glad Pres. Trump signed our bipartisan TAKE IT DOWN Act today.
We’ve seen how technology can deliver incredible innovations but there
have to be guardrails to keep people safe. That’s why I supported this
bill to protect and empower victims of real and deepfake revenge
porn.”  
  
[**Sen. Roger
Wicker**](https://x.com/SenatorWicker/status/1924578630438375661)**:**
“The U.S. must lead in AI innovation and accountability. Today,
President Trump signed the Take It Down Act. This new law protects
people from AI deepfakes which often target families and children.”  
  
[**Sen. Todd
Young**](https://x.com/SenToddYoung/status/1924562298061922448)**:**
“Glad to see @POTUS sign our TAKE IT DOWN Act into law today to protect
victims—especially young women and children—from harmful deepfakes.”  
  
[**House Majority Whip Tom
Emmer**](https://x.com/GOPMajorityWhip/status/1924573108272316512)**:**
“Glad to see @POTUS sign the Take It Down Act into law. Deepfake sexual
exploitation has sadly become more common with technological
advancements. Thankfully, this law will hold perpetrators accountable
and protect the victims of these depraved crimes.”  
  
[**House Republican Conference Chair Lisa
McClain**](https://x.com/RepLisaMcClain/status/1924549945383678199)**:**
“In America, we will not tolerate the exploitation of our children. This
law will protect our children and families from becoming targets of
digital predators. I’m proud to have stood alongside President Trump
when he signed this important legislation into law. I look forward to
continuing to support his administration and the First Lady’s efforts to
hold those who create harmful content accountable, ensure that platforms
take responsibility, and keep our children safe in the digital age.”  
  
[**Rep. Rick
Allen**](https://x.com/RepRickAllen/status/1924548700518408311)**:** “✅
SIGNED INTO LAW: The Take It Down Act As a grandfather of 14, I was
proud to support this bill in @HouseCommerce and on the House floor.
Thank you to @FLOTUS for your tireless work to create a safer digital
future and protect our kids from online exploitation.”  
  
[**Rep. Vern
Buchanan**](https://x.com/VernBuchanan/status/1924580940153573764)**:**
“President Trump has signed the TAKE IT DOWN Act into law, which
protects children and victims of revenge porn from online exploitation.
I was proud to help introduce this bill and vote for its passage in
support of those who have been subject to this horrific violation.”  
  
[**Rep. Kat
Cammack**](https://x.com/RepKatCammack/status/1924553959215178196)**:**
“Glad to support the Take It Down Act and to see it signed into law
today by @POTUS.”  
  
[**Rep. Ben
Cline**](https://x.com/RepBenCline/status/1924568770057502913)**:**
“President Trump just signed the bipartisan TAKE IT DOWN Act into law—a
major step toward removing non-consensual AI-generated deepfakes on
social media. Grateful for @FLOTUS’s leadership in getting this across
the finish line and protecting every American from these harmful
images.”  
  
[**Rep. Debbie
Dingell**](https://x.com/RepDebDingell/status/1924565298956369941)**:**
“The TAKE IT DOWN ACT is now law. This is a huge win for women and
children across the country. Grateful for my partners in the House and
Senate who helped get this bill across the finish line and passed into
law.”  
  
[**Rep. Randy
Feenstra**](https://x.com/RepFeenstra/status/1924563184897110225)**:**
“Thank you to President Trump for signing the TAKE IT DOWN Act to
deliver the harshest punishment possible for criminals who take
advantage of our kids.”  
  
[**Rep. Laura
Gillen**](https://x.com/RepLauraGillen/status/1924582324437414179)**:**
“I was proud to vote for the bipartisan Take It Down Act and glad to see
it signed into law today. No one should have to endure such a violation
of privacy without protection. \#TakeItDown”  
  
[**Rep. Morgan
Griffith**](https://x.com/RepMGriffith/status/1924581439435165741)**:**
“For me, voting for the Take It Down Act was easy. This commonsense bill
protects our kids from nonconsensual online distribution of sexually
explicit images.”  
  
[**Rep. Brett
Guthrie**](https://energycommerce.house.gov/posts/chairman-guthrie-celebrates-president-trump-s-signing-of-take-it-down-act)**:**
“I want to thank President Trump and First Lady Melania Trump for their
steadfast leadership, as well as the millions of Americans affected by
online exploitation, for their courage. As the Chairman of the House
Committee on Energy and Commerce, I am proud that we delivered on our
commitment to advance this important legislation to protect victims of
online exploitation. I want to honor Eli Heacock, and express my
gratitude to his mom, Shannon Cronister-Heacock, for having the courage
to share her son’s devastating story. The scourge of sexual exploitation
online has upended the lives of innocent victims all across our country.
The TAKE IT DOWN Act is an important step forward in protecting kids
from new, 21st century threats to their well-being. This bill would not
have been possible without the bravery of families like the Heacocks,
and the TAKE IT DOWN Act works to ensure tragedies like this never
happen again.”  
  
[**Rep. Pat
Harrigan**](https://x.com/RepPatHarrigan/status/1924552700047335465)**:**
“A few weeks ago, I voted for the TAKE IT DOWN ACT in the House. Today,
it’s the law! Justice is here for the victims, and a reckoning is coming
for those who thought they could get away with preying on the
vulnerable.”  
  
[**Rep. Diana
Harshbarger**](https://x.com/RepHarshbarger/status/1924551925694914973)**:**
“The Take It Down Act is a crucial step in protecting our children from
predatory behavior online. I was proud to support this important
legislation!”  
  
[**Rep. Kevin
Hern**](https://x.com/repkevinhern/status/1924552529871880635)**:** “I’m
honored to be at the @WhiteHouse today to witness @POTUS sign the Take
It Down Act into law! Earlier this year, @FLOTUS came to Capitol Hill
for a roundtable that I was grateful to be a part of. We heard directly
from teenagers whose lives had been destroyed by malicious AI-generated
pornographic images shared on social media. This legislation will
require social media sites to act as quickly as possible to remove such
images from their platforms. The First Lady has been an incredible
advocate for this legislation, helping to garner bipartisan support in
both the House and Senate. Congratulations!”  
  
[**Rep. Young
Kim**](https://x.com/RepYoungKim/status/1924600960145621268)**:** “Good
news! The TAKE IT DOWN Act is now the law of the land to protect kids
from online exploitation. I was proud to vote in favor of this historic,
bipartisan bill on the House floor.”  
  
[**Rep. Barry
Loudermilk**](https://x.com/RepLoudermilk/status/1924575371292225662)**:**
“Today, @POTUS signed the TAKE IT DOWN Act into law. As AI advances, so
do the risks involved with it. This legislation will help children and
their families to remove explicit or defamatory images posted online. In
the digital age, privacy and security are vital and this is a major
step.”  
  
[**Rep. Nancy
Mace**](https://x.com/RepNancyMace/status/1924549367912136956)**:**
“We’re at the @WhiteHouse as the Take It Down Act is signed into law.
Thank you, President Trump. With the rise of AI and deepfake a\*use,
women and children have been left vulnerable for too long. The Take It
Down Act finally gives victims real protection, and makes exploitation a
crime, not a loophole.”  
  
[**Rep. Ryan
Mackenzie**](https://x.com/RepMackenzie/status/1924559820608163843)**:**
“Proud to attend today’s signing of the Take it Down Act. As a
Pennsylvania State Representative, I helped to lead efforts to remove
harmful deepfake images. Now, this law takes that fight nationwide and
protects young people throughout our nation from AI-generated online
exploitation.”  
  
[**Rep. Nicole
Malliotakis**](https://x.com/RepNicole/status/1924548038107734052)**:**
“Today @POTUS signed the Take It Down Act, bipartisan legislation I
co-sponsored, into law! Together we’re protecting women (and men) from
becoming victims of digital exploitation.”  
  
[**Rep. August
Pfluger**](https://x.com/RepPfluger/status/1924551372160032790)**:** “I
just witnessed @POTUS sign the TAKE IT DOWN Act into law! This is a
major step forward in protecting innocent victims and restoring online
accountability, and I was proud to co-lead this legislation alongside
@RepMariaSalazar.”  
  
[**Rep. Roger
Williams**](https://x.com/RepRWilliams/status/1924570119964966972)**:**
“Today @POTUS signed the bipartisan TAKE IT DOWN Act into law. This law
will hold abusers accountable and empower victims of online abuse to
have deepfake content or explicit material shared without their consent
removed. We will not tolerate the exploitation of our children.”  
  
[**Attorney General Pam
Bondi**](https://x.com/AGPamBondi/status/1924599689610969178)**:** “I
was proud to stand with @POTUS as he signed the Take It Down Act. Thank
you @FLOTUS for your work in safeguarding children from deepfake
exploitation.”  
  
[**Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Scott
Turner**](https://x.com/SecretaryTurner/status/1924562177664373043)**:**
“As @FLOTUS’ Take it Down Act is signed into law, @POTUS highlights $25
million to support foster youth aging out of the foster care system. I
am proud to partner with the First Lady to provide young adults with the
assistance and foundation they need to transform their lives.”  
  
[**Small Business Administration Administrator Kelly
Loeffler**](https://x.com/SBA_Kelly/status/1924572466023649459)**:**
“Congratulations to @FLOTUS on the official signing of the Take It Down
Act. This nation is so grateful for your advocacy and commitment to
protecting America’s children!”  
  
[**House Republican
Conference**](https://x.com/HouseGOP/status/1924548136405467199)**:**
“The Take It Down Act was signed into LAW by @POTUS!  
Congratulations to @FLOTUS, @RepMariaSalazar, and Chairman @RepGuthrie.
Thank you for leading this effort to protect children from exploitation
online.”  
  
[**House Energy & Commerce
Committee**](https://x.com/HouseCommerce/status/1924549628927541651)**:**
“This bill will protect countless Americans from entirely preventable
harm online.”  
  
[**Republican Study
Committee**](https://x.com/RepublicanStudy/status/1924552451459314106)**:**
“This is a huge win. The TAKE IT DOWN Act is critical to protecting
children from non-consensual deepfakes online and holds AI abusers
accountable. Thank you, President Trump!”  
  
[**Department of Homeland
Security**](https://x.com/DHSgov/status/1924554178690535703)**:** “Thank
you @POTUS Trump for continuing to prioritize America’s children by
signing into law the “Take It Down Act,” to protect children from
extortion. DHS is at the forefront fighting predators who try to harm
and exploit our children. Make America Safe Again!”
