---
date: '2025-05-29'
modified_time: 2025-05-29 15:08:06-04:00
published_time: 2025-05-29 15:01:11-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/2025/05/law-enforcement-backs-the-one-big-beautiful-bill/
tags: articles
title: Law Enforcement Backs the One, Big, Beautiful Bill
---
 
Support continues to grow for President Donald J. Trump’s One, Big,
Beautiful Bill — a generational opportunity to secure historic tax cuts,
deficit reduction, border security, and more.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/05/1pr-20250527-reconciliation-salt-overtime-1.jpg"
style="width:400px" decoding="async" data-fetchpriority="high"
sizes="(max-width: 2380px) 100vw, 2380px"
srcset="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/05/1pr-20250527-reconciliation-salt-overtime-1.jpg 2380w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/05/1pr-20250527-reconciliation-salt-overtime-1.jpg?resize=479,600 479w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/05/1pr-20250527-reconciliation-salt-overtime-1.jpg?resize=768,962 768w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/05/1pr-20250527-reconciliation-salt-overtime-1.jpg?resize=958,1200 958w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/05/1pr-20250527-reconciliation-salt-overtime-1.jpg?resize=1226,1536 1226w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/05/1pr-20250527-reconciliation-salt-overtime-1.jpg?resize=1635,2048 1635w"
width="2380" height="2982"
alt="Strong Praise from FOP for Pro-Labor Provisions in the “One Big Beautiful Bill Act”" />
<img
src="data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2ZyBmaWxsPSJub25lIiBoZWlnaHQ9IjEyIiB2aWV3Ym94PSIwIDAgMTIgMTIiIHdpZHRoPSIxMiIgeG1sbnM9Imh0dHA6Ly93d3cudzMub3JnLzIwMDAvc3ZnIj4KPHBhdGggZD0iTTIgMGEyIDIgMCAwIDAtMiAydjJoMS41VjJhLjUuNSAwIDAgMSAuNS0uNWgyVjBIMlptMiAxMC41SDJhLjUuNSAwIDAgMS0uNS0uNVY4SDB2MmEyIDIgMCAwIDAgMiAyaDJ2LTEuNVpNOCAxMnYtMS41aDJhLjUuNSAwIDAgMCAuNS0uNVY4SDEydjJhMiAyIDAgMCAxLTIgMkg4Wm0yLTEyYTIgMiAwIDAgMSAyIDJ2MmgtMS41VjJhLjUuNSAwIDAgMC0uNS0uNUg4VjBoMloiIGZpbGw9IiNmZmYiIC8+Cjwvc3ZnPg==" />
<figcaption><span><em>READ: The National Fraternal Order of Police
endorses the One, Big, Beautiful Bill</em></span></figcaption>
</figure>

**In recent days:**

-   **The National Fraternal Order of Police — the nation’s largest
    organization of law enforcement —**
    [**announced**](https://fop.net/2025/05/strong-praise-from-fop-for-pro-labor-provisions-in-the-one-big-beautiful-bill-act/)
    **their support, highlighting the bill’s strong pro-labor
    provisions:** “The ‘One Big Beautiful Bill Act’ is more than
    legislation—it is a promise kept to the public safety officers
    across the country and a bold step toward an economy that respects,
    rewards, and uplifts the people who keep it safe … We appreciate
    that President Trump is always fighting for our nation’s law
    enforcement officers.”  
-   **Secretary of Transportation Sean Duffy**
    [**urged**](https://www.foxnews.com/us/duffy-urges-senate-pass-big-beautiful-bills-12-5b-air-traffic-system-fix)
    **the Senate to quickly pass the bill and fund the long overdue
    modernization of America’s air traffic control systems:** “We have
    an antiquated and old air traffic control system, anywhere from 25
    to 35, 40 years old in some places. It is in desperate need of a
    brand-new build. We need Congress to act.”  
-   **National Federation of Independent Business SVP Jeff Brabant**
    [**praised**](https://www.inc.com/brian-contreras/trump-tax-cut-bill-small-businesses-mike-johnson-house-senate/91192070)
    **the legislation’s commitment to economic prosperity:** “This is
    one of the more pro-small business pieces of legislation, in my
    opinion, in recent history. Hopefully this thing becomes law.” 

**Scores of other organizations have declared their support for the One,
Big, Beautiful Bill:**

[Association of Equipment Manufacturers SVP of Government and Industry
Relations Kip
Eideberg](https://newsroom.aem.org/aem-applauds-house-passage-of-one-big-beautiful-bill-act/):
“Equipment manufacturers applaud the House of Representatives for
passing the One Big Beautiful Bill Act, which will supercharge job
creation and investment in domestic manufacturing. The bill’s critical
tax proposals – including protecting the corporate tax rate, reinstating
immediate R&D expensing, and increasing the pass-through deduction –
will strengthen the U.S. equipment manufacturing industry and bolster
our global competitiveness. We urge the Senate to keep these
pro-manufacturing provisions and act swiftly to pass this historic
legislation.”

[National Restaurant Association President and CEO Michelle
Korsmo](https://www.restaurant.org/research-and-media/media/press-releases/statement-on-the-passage-of-hr1/):
“This legislation is a major victory for restaurant owners, employees,
and the communities they serve. It incorporates key tax provisions vital
for industry growth, such as the 199A qualified business income
deduction, full expensing of capital investments, and the reinstatement
of depreciation and amortization in calculating business interest
expenses. These measures are crucial for helping businesses have the
working capital they need to cover payroll, manage rising supply costs,
and stay competitive. The inclusion of the No Tax on Tips and No Tax on
Overtime provisions recognizes the value of our dedicated workforce.
More than two million tipped servers and bartenders stand to benefit,
while the overtime measure rewards the commitment of over 13 million
hourly team members across the sector. Tax policy can determine the
survival of small businesses, especially restaurants, where pre-tax
margins are often just 3–5%. The inclusion of so many supportive
policies was made possible by the unified efforts of our National and
State Association members, including the restaurant owners, industry
advocates, and employees who shared compelling stories with House
members about the positive effect these changes will have on businesses
and local economies. We’re grateful for the strong policy provisions and
look forward to collaborating with the Senate as the process moves
forward.”

[International Foodservice Distributors Association SVP of Government
and Public Affairs Mala
Parker](https://ifdaonline.org/ifda-praises-house-passage-of-the-one-big-beautiful-bill-act-and-encourages-the-senate-to-maintain-key-tax-provisions/):
“IFDA applauds House passage of the One Big Beautiful Bill Act, which
includes tax policy essential for the foodservice distribution industry,
almost 90 percent of which are family-owned businesses. Increasing and
making permanent the 199A pass-through deduction and estate tax
exemption will provide certainty and encourage growth for the industry
that makes meals away from home possible. We urge the Senate to maintain
these provisions as the bill works its way through the legislative
process.”

[Independent Insurance Agents and Brokers of America SVP Nathan
Riedel](https://www.propertycasualty360.com/2025/05/23/big-i-praises-passage-of-big-beautiful-tax-bill/):
“The House took a very big and positive step to bring economic certainty
to thousands of small business owners and the consumers they represent.
We urge the Senate to do its work to move this legislation forward.”

[American Farm Bureau Federation President Zippy
Duvall](https://www.fb.org/news-release/farm-bureau-applauds-house-passage-of-reconciliation-package):
“Farm Bureau applauds the House passage of H.R.1, which modernizes farm
bill programs and extends and improves critical tax provisions that
benefit America’s small farmers and ranchers. Updated reference prices
will provide more certainty for farmers struggling through tough
economic times. Making business tax deductions permanent and continuing
current estate tax exemptions will ensure thousands of families will be
able to pass their farms to the next generation. We urge the Senate to
work together and swiftly pass legislation to deliver much-needed relief
to America’s farm and ranch families.”  
  
[U.S. Chamber of Commerce Executive Vice President Neil
Bradley](https://www.uschamber.com/taxes/u-s-chamber-applauds-house-passage-of-one-big-beautiful-bill-act):
“The House sent a clear message today—American workers and businesses
want and need permanent tax relief. A competitive, pro-growth tax code
doesn’t just grow the overall U.S. economy, it raises wages for workers
and improves the lives of Americans. The legislation passed out of the
House this morning contains critical measures that support main street
businesses, enhance America’s global competitiveness, and bolster
sustained economic growth. The Chamber commends Speaker Johnson for his
leadership and commitment to ensuring the permanence of President
Trump’s pro-growth tax reforms, and applauds the lawmakers involved in
driving this effort forward. We encourage the Senate to continue to move
the legislative process forward to deliver lasting benefits for American
workers and businesses.”  
  
[Airlines for
America](https://www.airlines.org/news-update/statement-from-airlines-for-america-4/):
“A4A commends the House for passing the One Big Beautiful Bill Act which
includes a critical investment of $12.5 billion for modernizing the
Federal Aviation Administration’s air traffic facilities, systems and
infrastructure. ATC staffing shortages and antiquated equipment, such as
copper wires, floppy disks and paper strips, have been a serious concern
for years—we are past time to make meaningful change and ensure that the
United States has a world-class aviation system. This funding is a vital
down payment on updating the system that guides 27,000 flights, 2.7
million passengers and 61,000 tons of cargo every day. The legislation
also makes smart, strategic investments in Customs and Border Protection
personnel and training for the aviation workforce of tomorrow while
supporting American energy dominance in aviation fuel production. We
encourage the Senate to move swiftly to pass this bill and send it to
the President.”  
  
[National Cattlemen’s Beef Association President Buck
Wehrbein](https://www.ncba.org/news-media/news/details/43152/ncba-priorities-approved-in-house-reconciliation-bill):
“Cattle farmers and ranchers need Congress to invest in cattle health,
strengthen our resources against foreign animal disease, support
producers recovering from disasters or depredation, and pass tax relief
that protects family farms and ranches for future generations.
Thankfully, this reconciliation bill includes all these key priorities.
NCBA was proud to help pass this bill in the House and we will continue
pushing for these key policies until the bill is signed into law.”  
  
[Uber CEO Dara
Khosrowshahi](https://x.com/dkhos/status/1925546174184137000): “Big news
from DC—the House just passed President Trump’s tax bill, bringing No
Tax On Tips one step closer to the finish line. While it still needs to
clear the Senate, this is a big win for hardworking @Uber drivers and
couriers across the country 👏”  
  
[Job Creators Network CEO Alfredo
Ortiz](https://x.com/JobCreatorsUSA/status/1925533044443648236):
“Congratulations to President Trump and Speaker Johnson for passing
their reconciliation bill in the House. This bill offers historic tax
cuts for small businesses and ordinary Americans. By making the Tax Cuts
and Jobs Act permanent and expanding key provisions, such as the small
business tax deduction, which Job Creators Network was the loudest voice
for, this bill offers significant tax relief for decades to come. It
will allow small businesses, the backbone of the American economy, to
expand, hire, raise wages, and reinvest in their communities, ushering
in a new economic Golden Age. On behalf of all small businesses, JCN
thanks President Trump and Speaker Johnson for their leadership in
passing this bill, which the media said couldn’t be done on this
aggressive timeline. Now it’s time for the Senate to follow suit and
pass similar legislation, which includes the House’s key small business
tax cuts, as soon as possible.”  
  
[National Association of Manufacturers President and CEO Jay
Timmons](https://nam.org/house-delivers-for-manufacturing-senate-must-seal-the-deal-34064/?stream=series-press-releases):
“Today’s House passage of this historic legislation marks a major
victory for manufacturers across America. This pro-growth legislation
preserves crucial tax policies that will enable manufacturers to create
jobs, invest in their communities, grow here at home and compete
globally. In short, this is a manufacturers’ bill … This is a pivotal
moment. It’s time to double down on policies that encourage
manufacturers to invest and create jobs in America and keep our industry
strong and our nation competitive on the world stage—because when
manufacturing wins, America wins.”  
  
[Business Roundtable President and COO Kristen
Silverberg](https://www.businessroundtable.org/business-roundtable-applauds-house-passage-of-reconciliation-bill):
“Under Speaker Johnson’s leadership, the House has achieved a major
milestone toward extending and strengthening President Trump’s historic
tax reform. Business Roundtable commends the House on taking a giant
step forward to protect and boost the economic benefits that tax reform
delivered for American businesses, workers and families. By maintaining
a competitive corporate tax rate and enhancing essential domestic and
international tax provisions, the House budget reconciliation bill will
help fuel U.S. investment, innovation and economic growth. As the Senate
prepares to act, we stand ready to continue working with Congress and
the Administration to pass the most competitive, pro-growth tax package
possible.”  
  
[American Petroleum Institute President and CEO Mike
Sommers](https://www.api.org/news-policy-and-issues/news/2025/05/21/api-statement-on-passage-of-house-reconciliation-bill):
“We applaud the House of Representatives for passing the One Big
Beautiful Bill Act to help restore American energy dominance. By
preserving competitive tax policies, beginning to reverse the ‘methane
fee,’ opening lease sales and advancing important progress on
permitting, this historic legislation is a win for our nation’s energy
future. We look forward to working with the Senate to strengthen
pro-investment provisions and keep America at the forefront of energy
innovation.”  
  
[National Association of Wholesaler-Distributors CEO Eric
Hoplin](https://www.naw.org/naw-applauds-house-passage-of-the-one-big-beautiful-bill/):
“We applaud the House of Representatives for passing the One Big
Beautiful Bill Act and extend our sincere thanks to Speaker Mike
Johnson, Chairman Jason Smith, the Ways and Means Committee, and House
leadership for championing this pro-business, pro-worker legislation.
This is a win for the people who roll up their sleeves every day to
power our economy, entrepreneurs who build businesses from the ground
up, and the workers who keep them running. We urge the Senate to act
swiftly and send this bill to the President’s desk so America’s job
creators and workers can keep driving our economy forward. The bill
makes the 199A deduction permanent and expands it to 23%, helping
millions of small businesses, including most wholesaler-distributors. It
raises the death tax exemption, protecting family-owned businesses, and
restores vital incentives that encourage investment, innovation, and
long-term economic growth.”  
  
[Small Business & Entrepreneurship Council President and CEO Karen
Kerrigan](https://sbecouncil.org/2025/05/22/sbe-council-cheers-u-s-house-passage-of-one-big-beautiful-bill-urges-prompt-senate-action/):
“H.R. 1 delivers a big, beautiful boost to U.S. entrepreneurship and
small businesses. SBE Council applauds U.S. House passage of this
critically important legislation. In addition to permanent tax relief
and incentives that will help entrepreneurs and small business owners
grow their firms, level up their businesses, and support their
employees, various measures in the legislation correctly right-fit
various federal programs and functions that have gone awry and
consequently have undermined fiscal accountability and the private
sector. Time is of the essence in getting the One Big Beautiful Bill to
President Trump’s desk, and we urge the U.S. Senate to move post haste
on the work that must be done to deliver the big benefits of the package
to small business owners, all taxpayers, and the U.S. economy.”  
  
[National Business Aviation Association President and CEO Ed
Bolen](https://nbaa.org/2025-press-releases/nbaa-lauds-inclusion-of-industry-priorities-in-house-passed-budget-bill/):
“We commend the House for recognizing the importance of improving ATC
infrastructure and strengthening the controller workforce to enhance
safety and efficiency in the National Airspace System. Business
aviation’s ability to serve citizens, companies and communities is only
possible because the U.S. leads the world in aviation … As the House
reconciliation bill moves to the Senate for consideration, we look
forward to working with lawmakers on both sides of the aisle to advance
these forward-looking provisions that bolster an essential industry,
support countless workers and promote American competitiveness.”  
  
[America’s Credit Unions President and CEO Jim
Nussle](https://www.americascreditunions.org/news-media/news/reconciliation-bill-passes-house-tax-status-remains-secure):
“Thank you to the U.S. House of Representatives for securing credit
unions’ not-for-profit tax status as part of H.R. 1 and recognizing the
industry’s importance to strong Main Streets across the country. More
than 142 million Americans trust and rely on credit unions to achieve
their American Dream, and this bill allows them to continue on their
path of financial freedom. We will continue to advocate for policies
that create more opportunities for credit unions to bolster our nation’s
economic prosperity. We call on the U.S. Senate to continue to protect
the credit union tax status as they consider this legislation.”  
  
[National Taxpayers Union Executive Vice President Brandon
Arnold](https://www.ntu.org/publications/detail/taxpayers-hail-house-passage-of-one-big-beautiful-bill-act):
“The bill passed by the House contains growth-focused tax relief and
some important first steps toward long-needed spending restraint. The
Senate now has a strong package that it can build upon and further
improve.”  
  
[National Association of REALTORS Executive Vice President Shannon
McGahn](https://www.nar.realtor/magazine/real-estate-news/house-passes-tax-reform-package-with-key-wins-for-real-estate):
“We appreciate House leaders for taking this important step with this
tax reform bill, which supports hardworking families and strengthens the
real estate economy. With lower tax rates, SALT relief, and new
incentives for small businesses and community development, this proposal
brings real benefits to everyday Americans.”  
  
[National Electrical Contractors Association CEO David
Long](https://x.com/GOPMajorityWhip/status/1924850977774920034): “These
provisions recognize the real-world needs of the electrical construction
industry. Whether it’s power generation, grid modernization,
cutting-edge data center projects, or clean energy installations,
electrical contractors are at the forefront of America’s infrastructure
evolution. This legislation gives our contractors the certainty they
need to plan, invest, and grow.”  
  
[American Hotel & Lodging Association President and CEO Rosanna
Maietta](https://www.ahla.com/news/ahla-statement-us-house-passed-reconciliation-package):
“This is a win for Main Street businesses. We commend lawmakers for
including critical tax provisions in the budget reconciliation bill that
will prevent a tax increase on American workers and the small businesses
that are the backbone of America’s hotel and lodging industry. This is a
critical step to stave off the expiration of important tax provisions
that will provide our members, the majority of whom are small business
owners, the level of certainty they need to effectively operate their
businesses. We urge the U.S. Senate to swiftly pass this legislation and
send it to President Trump’s desk.”  
  
[National Pork Producers Council President Duane
Stateler](https://www.swineweb.com/latest-swine-news/pork-producers-wins-included-in-house-passed-reconciliation-bill/):
“America’s pork producers are one step closer to more certainty with the
House’s reconciliation bill passage, which includes necessary
legislation to keep farms afloat during uncertain times.”  
  
[Associated Equipment Distributors President and CEO Brian P.
McGuire](https://www.constructionequipmentguide.com/aed-commends-house-passage-of-budget-reconciliation-package-urges-swift-senate-action/68101):
“AED commends House Speaker Mike Johnson and his leadership team for
securing House passage of the budget reconciliation bill. This
legislation delivers pro-growth tax policies, streamlines energy project
approvals and strengthens surface transportation infrastructure
investments. We look forward to working with the Senate to ensure final
passage of this comprehensive package.”  
  
[American Federation for Children CEO Tommy
Schultz](https://www.federationforchildren.org/afc-celebrates-continued-momentum-for-school-choice/):
“We are grateful for the efforts of Speaker Johnson and Congressional
leaders in both chambers who have stood up so far to ensure that
President Trump’s goal of school choice for every family in every state
becomes a reality. American parents deserve nothing less, and we will
continue working to get school choice across the finish line as the
Senate can deliver on a historic national school choice tax credit.
Bringing school choice to every state will be a legacy item for the
lawmakers who stand boldly behind parents. We will continue to stand
with them to achieve this goal.”  
  
[National Federation of Independent Business SVP for Advocacy Adam
Temple](https://www.nfib.com/news/press-release/nfib-key-votes-the-one-big-beautiful-bill-act/):
“The One Big Beautiful Bill Act includes the most important thing
Congress can do to help small businesses and their workers – increasing
and making the Small Business Deduction permanent. The bill also
provides a tax cut for small business owners through lower individual
rates, encourages new capital investments, and helps small business
owners provide greater health care benefits to their employees. Members
of Congress have a historic opportunity to provide over 33 million small
business owners with permanent tax relief and NFIB strongly encourages
them to do so.”  
  
[Growth Energy CEO Emily
Skor](https://growthenergy.org/2025/05/22/budget-reconciliation-bill/):
“We’re grateful to our champions on Capitol Hill who have worked hard to
preserve and extend rural priorities, like the 45Z clean fuel production
tax credit. This budget reconciliation package would give farmers and
ethanol producers the freedom and flexibility to deliver for the
American people. It ultimately delivers on the President’s agenda—it’s
good for rural communities, good for innovation, good for investment,
and good for American energy dominance.”  
  
[Americans for Prosperity Chief Government Affairs Officer Brent
Gardner](https://americansforprosperity.org/featured/afp-celebrates-house-passage-of-republican-tax-bill/):
“On behalf of our network of grassroots activists and small business
owners nationwide, AFP congratulates Speaker Johnson, Majority Leader
Scalise, Whip Emmer, and all the committee chairs for shepherding this
legislation through the U.S. House of Representatives. Thanks to the
efforts of policy champions across the House GOP conference, we are one
step closer to giving Americans the pro-growth tax policy they voted for
in November. Beyond cementing the foundation for a post-Biden economic
recovery, we are poised to embrace an all-of-the-above approach to U.S.
energy production, and finally secure our southern border.”  
  
[National Foreign Trade Council Vice President for International Tax
Policy Anne
Gordon](https://www.nftc.org/nftc-statement-following-passage-of-reconciliation-bill/):
“We would like to once again thank Chairman Smith and the Ways & Means
Committee and staff for their tireless work on this bill and Speaker
Johnson and the leadership team for their efforts to bring critical U.S.
tax legislation one step closer to becoming a reality. We congratulate
the House on passing the One, Big, Beautiful Bill and urge the Senate to
take up work on it as quickly as possible.”  
  
[American Land Title Association CEO Diane
Tomb](https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/alta-applauds-house-passage-of-tax-package-302463544.html):
“We commend the House for passing legislation that recognizes the needs
of American small businesses, including the thousands of title and
settlement companies ALTA represents. The expanded deduction under
Section 199A is a welcome step that supports the long-term health of our
small business members and the communities they serve. ALTA is
especially pleased to see the preservation of Section 1031 like-kind
exchanges, which play a vital role in fueling real estate investment,
promoting property improvements and driving local economic growth.
Provisions supporting homeownership, including those related to mortgage
interest and capital gains exclusions, help provide certainty for
buyers, sellers and lenders alike—strengthening the entire housing
ecosystem. We urge the Senate to build on this momentum and protect the
real estate and housing incentives that help Americans build wealth,
promote generational stability and drive our economy forward.”  
  
[NRA Institute for Legislative Action Executive Director John
Commerford](https://www.nraila.org/articles/20250522/nra-statement-on-house-passage-of-reconciliation-bill):
“This morning, the U.S. House of Representatives passed President
Trump’s One, Big, Beautiful Bill, which includes the complete removal of
suppressors from the National Firearms Act (NFA). This represents a
monumental victory for Second Amendment rights, eliminating burdensome
regulations on the purchase of critical hearing protection devices. The
NRA thanks the House members who supported this bill and urges its swift
passage in the U.S. Senate.”  
  
[RATE Coalition Executive Director Dan
Combs](https://ratecoalition.com/rate-coalition-applauds-house-passage-of-pro-growth-tax-legislation/):
“Today’s vote is an historic step toward securing a tax code that
rewards investment, supports job growth, and puts American workers
first. This legislation builds on the success of the Tax Cuts and Jobs
Act, preserving the policies that have helped drive wages up,
unemployment down, and investment back into the U.S. economy. The House
has done its part to move this forward. Now it’s time to keep that
momentum going and get this across the finish line.”  
  
[Independent Women’s Center for Economic Opportunity Director Patrice
Onwuka](https://x.com/PatricePinkFile/status/1925534917212914158):
“BOOM. Tax cuts, welfare reforms, green spending cuts, and border
strengthening. Major credit is due to @SpeakerJohnson for getting @potus
@realDonaldTrump \#OneBigBeautifulBill through the House. He has proven
to be a quiet force for conservatives. Now onto the Senate.”  
  
[Missouri Farm Bureau President Garrett
Hawkins](https://mofb.org/one-big-beautiful/): “Our organization remains
firmly committed to bringing the next generation home to rural Missouri.
The legislation as passed contains top-tier Missouri Farm Bureau
priorities to do just that, including making permanent several critical
tax provisions such as an increased estate tax exemption, increasing
access to Section 179 expensing, and ensuring continued use of key tools
such as cash accounting, business interest deductions, and expensing for
farms and small businesses. Additionally, the bill contains critical
updates to the current farm safety net, including a reference price
increase under farm bill programs and updates to dairy margin coverage.
We are pleased to see several provisions related to promoting
affordable, reliable and domestically produced energy and biofuels
contained in the legislation. All of these things together, we believe,
will help build a stronger and more resilient rural economy for our
children and grandchildren to call home.”  
  
[Georgia Commissioner of Agriculture Tyler J.
Harper](https://www.agr.georgia.gov/pr/commissioner-tyler-harper-applauds-house-passage-president-trumps-one-big-beautiful-bill-urges):
“President Trump’s Big Beautiful Bill is a much-needed win for Georgia
Farmers and American Agriculture after four years of failure under
President Biden. I am grateful to every Georgia member who voted in
favor, and I urge Senators Ossoff and Warnock to put partisan politics
aside and support this critical legislation.”
