---
date: '2025-05-28'
published_time: 2025-05-28 14:35:23-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/2025/05/fact-one-big-beautiful-bill-cuts-spending-fuels-growth/
tags: articles
title: 'FACT: One, Big, Beautiful Bill Cuts Spending, Fuels Growth'
---
 
President Donald J. Trump’s One, Big, Beautiful Bill is a
once-in-a-generation opportunity to cut spending, fuel growth, and level
the fiscal footing of the American economy.

**Stephen Miller, White House Deputy Chief of Staff,**
[**explains**](https://x.com/StephenM/status/1927572082780520465) **the
bill’s historic nature:**

*“The Big Beautiful Bill is NOT an annual budget bill and does not fund
the departments of government. It does not finance our agencies or
federal programs. Instead, it includes the single largest welfare reform
in American history. Along with the largest tax cut and reform in
American history. The most aggressive energy exploration in American
history. And the strongest border bill in American history. All while
reducing the deficit.”*

**Miller goes on to**
[**explain**](https://x.com/StephenM/status/1926715409807397204) **how
the legislation also reduces the deficit:**

*“The bill saves more than 1.6 TRILLION in mandatory spending, including
the largest-ever welfare reform. A remarkable achievement. I’ve also
seen claims the bill increases the deficit. This lie is based on a CBO
accounting gimmick. Income tax rates from the 2017 tax cut are set to
expire in September. They were always planned to be permanent. CBO says
maintaining \*current\* rates adds to the deficit, but by definition
leaving these income tax rates unchanged cannot add one penny to the
deficit. The bill’s spending cuts REDUCE the deficit against the current
law baseline, which is the only correct baseline to use.”*

**Meanwhile, Peter Navarro, Senior Counselor for Trade and
Manufacturing,**
[**explains**](https://thehill.com/opinion/finance/5320248-the-bond-market-is-missing-the-real-big-beautiful-story/)
**why so-called “forecasts” fail to account for the bill’s contributions
to economic growth and debt reduction:**

*“In making its projections, the CBO \[Congressional Budget Office\] has
refused to account for — or ‘score’ as they say in CBO lingo — any of
the new revenues from the Trump reciprocal tariffs.*

*Remember here a key goal of Trump’s fair-trade policies is to shift the
U.S. tax base from one primarily reliant on income taxes to one that,
with the vision of the new External Revenue Service, is also supported
by tariff revenues. Consider, then, the impacts on the CBO’s projected
revenue shortfall of just the modest 10 percent global baseline tariff
Trump recently put into effect.*

*Such a tariff, depending on consumer responses (as measured by demand
elasticities) and enforcement efficacy (i.e., how much cheating occurs),
should generate between $2.3 trillion and $3.3 trillion in additional
revenue over the ten-year forecast period. When this revenue is layered
onto the enhanced dynamic growth scenario, the projected budget impact
from the One Big Beautiful Bill Act ranges from a modest $300 billion
increase in the debt under the 2.2 percent growth assumption to as much
as a $2 trillion surplus under the 2.7 percent growth assumption.”*
