---
date: '2024-01-12'
published_time: 2024-01-12 15:16:53-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/01/12/press-gaggle-by-deputy-press-secretary-andrew-bates-and-nsc-coordinator-for-strategic-communications-john-kirby-en-route-allentown-pa/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Gaggle by Deputy Press Secretary Andrew Bates and NSC Coordinator for\
  \ Strategic Communications John Kirby En Route Allentown,\_PA"
---
 
Aboard Air Force One  
En Route Allentown, Pennsylvania

12:57 P.M. EST

MR. BATES: Good morning.

Q Good morning.

MR. BATES: I have a few things at the top. And then Admiral Kirby is
going to take questions.

We are on our way to Pennsylvania, where the President will visit
several small businesses in Lehigh Valley and the Allentown area.

Allentown, a historic steel town, was hollowed out by failed
trickle-down economics. But thanks to Bidenomics and the President’s
Investing in America agenda, Allentown and communities nationwide are
experiencing an economic comeback.

As we saw yesterday, the President’s economic agenda is working, with
applications for new businesses reaching record heights.

Sixteen million new business applications have been filed in the last
three years. That’s more new business applications in — than the four
years of the prior administration combined.

As the President has said, every time someone starts a new small
business, it’s an act of hope and confidence in our economy, and we’ve
seen 16 million acts of hope since President Biden took office in that
regard.

This is the same hope and confidence the President will highlight on the
ground today.

Entrepreneurs who have hope and confidence in this economy, supported by
the President’s investments, were able to take on the risk of starting a
business.

And as a result, in Allentown and beyond, we are seeing a small business
boom, more good-paying jobs with rising wages, record-low unemployment,
and lower costs for hardworking families.

Similarly, Bidenomics has accomplished the decades-long goal of bringing
manufacturing back to America. We have created 26,000 new manufacturing
jobs in Pennsylvania under President Biden. Pennsylvania lost 23,000
manufacturing jobs under Donald Trump.

Also, today, we announced that we are implementing one of the most
impactful provisions of the President’s SAVE plan, which is the most
affordable repayment plan in U.S. history.

Starting next month, borrowers enrolled in SAVE who took out less than
$12,000 in loans and have been in repayment for 10 years will get their
remaining student debt cancelled.

This action will particularly help community college borrowers,
low-income borrowers, and those struggling to repay their loans, and
it’s part of our ongoing efforts to act as quickly as possible to give
more borrowers breathing room.

We encourage all borrowers who may be eligible for early debt
cancellation to sign up for the SAVE plan at StudentAid.gov.

Already, 6.9 million borrowers are enrolled in the plan; 3.9 million
have a monthly payment of $0.

The President will continue using every tool at his disposal to get
student loan borrowers the relief they need to reach their dreams.

And I’ll underline that proponents of MAGAnomics have consistently
opposed the relief that he is delivering for hardworking borrowers.

And then, finally, next week, on Monday, the President will travel to
Philadelphia for a service event in honor of Martin Luther King Jr.
Day.  
And with that, Admiral Kirby will take questions.

MR. KIRBY: Thanks.

Hey, guys. I don’t have an opening statement.

Q All right.

MR. KIRBY: Fire away.

Q Can you give any new assessments this morning about how much the
Houthi capabilities had been degraded and how significant the damage was
to the targets with the strikes last night?

MR. KIRBY: We’re still doing that assessment right now. That’s what we
call a battle damage assessment. That’s ongoing. And it could take some
hours before we can have a better sense — a clearer sense of what — the
actual damage done.

I would just remind that these were all valid, legitimate military
targets — all really aimed at going after the Houthis’ ability to store,
launch, and guide drones and missiles.  
Q Is the President ready for a war in Yemen if it were to come to that?
And would he be willing to send in ground troops?

MR. KIRBY: We’re not interested in a war with Yemen. We’re not
interested in a conflict of any kind here. In fact, everything the
President has been doing has been trying to prevent any escalation of
conflict, including the strikes last night.

Q Have you seen the bipartisan group of members of Congress say that the
President violated the War Powers Resolution? What’s your response to
that?

MR. KIRBY: We’re very comfortable and confident in the legal authorities
that the President exercised to conduct these strikes.

Q Are you expecting an attack in the Red Sea today? Do you see that as
being ineffective or not really showing that they were degraded after
your strikes last night?

MR. KIRBY: Look, I think there was — going into this, certainly, no- —
nobody was Pollyannaish about the possibility that the Houthis might
conduct some sort of retaliation. So, I don’t have the operational
reports on this.

But again, they’ve got choices to make here, and the right choice is to
stop these reckless attacks.

As the President said — I’ll point you to the last sentence in his
statement last night — he reserves the right and he won’t hesitate to
take further action to protect our troops and our facilities and
international commerce.

Q Do you know who was in the Situation Room last night when he decided
to make those airstrikes — that decision?

MR. KIRBY: He made that dec- — he made the decision to approve these
options after the attack on Tuesday — the big attack that was, like, 18
drones, some cruise missiles, a ballistic missile. And he was kept up to
speed as that attack was unfolding. It took some time.

When he was briefed that it had been accurately and effectively
defended, he called his national security team together — this is
Tuesday afternoon — was presented with the response options and approved
those options at that time.

Q John, can you talk about the calculation (inaudible) now as opposed to
earlier? This has been going on for a while. Some Republicans would say
it should have been done earlier; this is overdue. So, what made now the
right time to do it?

MR. KIRBY: I think you have to keep it in context for everything they’ve
been doing since late November, Peter. And repeatedly since that time —
you all have seen the tick-tock. We — on the diplomatic front, we’ve
worked with the U.N. We worked with coalition partners to condemn those
attacks; work on that U.N. Security Council resolution; put together
Operation Prosperity Guardian, which is really about defending
international shipping in the Red Sea, boosting our military presence in
the Red Sea.

I mean, everything the President has been doing since these attacks
really started in late November has been designed to disrupt their
ability to do that but also to send a strong signal to the Houthis that
they need to stop.

And on Tuesday, we had this very large attack on multiple ships in the
Red Sea using, again, a large number of drones, cruise missiles, and
ballistic missiles.

And — and right before that, you might remember, the — we issued what
can only be understood as a final warning to the Houthis. They violated
that, obviously, in this attack on Tuesday. And so, it led to these
strikes.

Q On Soleimani. There was — when we had the strike on Suleimani back
during the last administration, there was communication with the
Iranians through the Swiss, I believe, that was meant to keep it from
escalating beyond a certain, you know, level. Is there anything like
that going on right now with Iran or anybody else in the region?

MR. KIRBY: I don’t have any diplomatic conversations to speak to in that
regard. Again, this was really focused on disrupting Houthi capabilities
to conduct these attacks.

Q And — but the Houthis had an opportunity, they knew that this was
coming, so they were able to move some of their resources. So, was this
meant more as a signal to the Houthis not to try anything further? Or
was this meant to actually destroy their capabilities?

MR. KIRBY: This wasn’t some signaling exercise. This was this was — this
was designed to disrupt and to degrade Houthi military capabilities.

And as I said in the first answer, while we are still assessing the
actual impact of those strikes, we know that each and every target was
militarily significant to the Houthis’ ability. So, we’ll — we’ll see
where that goes.

Q And just to follow up on Peter’s questions, what is the President’s
strategy to keep Iran out of this war?

MR. KIRBY: Well, first of all, there’s no war with the Houthis. We don’t
seek a war in Yemen with the Houthis. We want to — we want to see these
attacks stop. We know that Iran backs the Houthis just like they back
Hezbollah and they — and they back Hamas. We have in the past and we
will certainly continue to hold Iran accountable for their destabilizing
activities.

I mean, in this administration alone, we’ve issued some 500 sanctions
again- — I mean, against 500 entities, 50 sanction regimes. We’ll
continue to work with our partners, you know, to make sure that we’re
doing everything we can to dissuade these destabili- — these
destabilizing behaviors by Iran.

Q (Inaudible) sanctions against Iran?

MR. KIRBY: I don’t want to get ahead of where we are. We have in the
past looked at economic sanctions as a tool. They certainly remain on
the table. But I don’t — I won’t prejudge any decisions that haven’t
been made yet.

Q John, can you tell us about Secretary Austin’s participation in this
decision-making process?

MR. KIRBY: It was seamless. It was as if — it was no — no different. His
participation was no different than it would be on any other given day,
except that he was briefing the President on options and engaged in the
discussions from the hospital. But he was fully engaged as he would be
in any other event.

Q And on Taiwan elections this weekend. Are you guys following what’s
happening? And are you concerned about any implications so soon after
the San Francisco meeting?

MR. KIRBY: We are — obviously, we’ll be watching and monitoring the —
the elections in Taiwan. Taiwan has strong democratic institutions that
we want to see exercised, of course. We want to see free, fair,
transparent elections. Obviously, we’re not taking a stake one way or
the other in the — in the result. That’s up to the people of Taiwan.

And just like we would say anywhere in the world, it would be
unacceptable for any other actor — nation-state or otherwise — to
interfere with the — with that — with that exercise of democracy. But
we’ll be watching it closely, of course.

Q Back on the Houthis. I don’t know if this is your swim lane or if it’s
— if it’s Bates’s. But are you seeing an — is the administration seeing
any sort of economic impacts as a result of the strikes as of this
morning?

MR. KIRBY: No, not — not at this time. No.

Q Does the President believe the Houthis are a terrorist group?

MR. KIRBY: As we’ve talked about, we are reviewing the FTO — Foreign
Terrorist Organization — finding on the Houthis. As you know, we — we
delisted them. And we have announced that we’re reviewing that — that
decision right now. No decisions have been made yet.

Q How soon can we expect one?

MR. KIRBY: I don’t — I don’t think I can give you an exact timeline or a
date on the calendar. I mean, that work is ongoing, largely at the State
Department. But — but it’s — it’s an ongoing review.

Q And if the attacks against these vessels don’t stop, is the President
willing to do this all over again?

MR. KIRBY: Well, with the caveat that — (Air Force One experiences
turbulence) — you okay? (Laughter.)

With the caveat —

Q Sorry, it’s —

MR. KIRBY: No, I know, I know.

Q Yeah. The — it’s — yeah.

MR. KIRBY: I’m reaching for the bulkhead too. (Laughter.)

With the caveat that, you know, I don’t want to get into hypotheticals,
and I certainly am not going to talk about potential future military
operations one way or the other, I would, again, point you to that last
statement in his statement yesterday: He will not hesitate to take
further action if it’s required to protect our sailors, our ships, or
the — the ships and sailors of merchant traffic in the Red Sea.

Again, I want to come back to the — the Houthis are the ones that
escalated here — and, in particular, escalation on Tuesday. And they
have a choice to make. And the right choice would be to stop these
reckless attacks.

Q And what about Tuesday was so much different? Like, was it the scale?
What was it about Tuesday that was significantly different?

MR. KIRBY: It was a — it was —

Q The scale (inaudible)?

MR. KIRBY: It was a significant scale. I mean, almost 20 drones, cruise
missiles, and ballistic missiles all — sort of all targeted —

Q (Inaudible.)

MR. KIRBY: — towards a fairly significant cluster of ships, both naval
ships — not just U.S. but a British destroyer, as well as international
— I’m sorry, as well as commercial vessels. Some of them the U.S.
flagged.

Q Let me ask you: Do you ask the French to participate, and do they
refuse?

MR. KIRBY: I won’t get into the diplomatic conversations we’ve had. I
mean, you’ve seen the list of people that participated in — you know,
you’ve also seen that internationally, even those who weren’t actively
involved in the dropping of bombs, many of our coalition partners have
signed up to the — the support — nonoperational support but also just,
you know, rhetorical support for what we did.

Q Kirby, could you just briefly reflect on this moment in foreign policy
for the Biden administration? We have Gaza going on, this, Ukraine. How
are you all staying above water and navigating?

MR. KIRBY: You know, the President describes this time that we’re living
in as an inflection point, and he’s right. I mean, you look all around
the world, and one of the things that’s a common thread is democracy
under threat. And it’s in threat in many different ways.

And it’s — the President believes in a foreign policy that — that
bolsters our allies and partners, that builds on alliances and
partnerships, that recognizes that the United States can’t do it all
alone, but that our leadership is vital and important to solving some of
these problems.

And I think what you’re going to see going forward this — this coming
year is what you’ve seen from the — in the last three years from
President Biden, and that is a very active foreign policy built on
relationships — improving relationships that need it, shoring up the
relationships that we know are strong and solid, and trying to solve
these problems in a collateral — in a collaborative but also a
multilateral way.

MR. BATES: Thank you, Admiral.

Q And just very briefly —

MR. BATES: We’re about to land, so we’ll take other questions.

Q Just a quick one on oil. Oil prices topped $80 a barrel. What kind of
supply disruptions and changes in pricing here in America is the White
House tracking?

MR. BATES: We are monitoring conditions. We will remain in touch with
our international partners to determine any long-term impact surprises.

But let me be very clear: It’s the Houthis who have been endangering the
freedom of navigation in one of the world’s most vital waterways. And
they should stop with their reckless behavior, which is costing many
countries unjustly, including ours.

Q The Justice Department announced this morning that they will seek the
death penalty for the Buffalo supermarket shooter. Obviously, the
President campaigned on abolishing the federal death penalty. And this
is the first time that Attorney General Garland’s department is pursuing
the death penalty. So, what are the President’s thoughts about that
course of action?

MR. BATES: What happened in Buffalo was grotesque and a heartbreaking
tragedy.

In 2022, in the wake of the shooting, President Biden traveled to
Buffalo to meet with the families of the victims impacted by this
senseless violence. And as he said there, “hate will not prevail,”
because hate has no place in America. Period.

We res- — with respect to the death penalty, the President has long
talked about his views on this issue broadly. We will leave it to the
appropriate authorities to speak to individual cases and sentencing
decisions. And I would refer you to the Department of Justice for
anything more.

Q And Speaker Johnson agreed to topline numbers, again, doubling down on
his agreement with Schumer. Does the White House see that as potentially
averting a government shutdown?

MR. BATES: Listen, House Republicans voted for an agreement in May.
Speaker Johnson reaffirmed it on Sunday. And again, this morning, we
have an agreement. (Air Force One experiences turbulence.) (Laughter.)
And Republicans need to keep their word and stop trying to shut down the
government.

Q Are you —

MR. BATES: I’m impressed by everybody’s balance. (Laughter.)

Q Are you in touch with agencies —

Q We’re impressed by your balance.

Q Are you in touch with agencies to potentially plan for that at all?

MR. BATES: Just — sorry, just one moment. As Speaker Johnson and
Democratic leaders said on Sunday, we do have a bipartisan funding
framework that reflects the funding levels in last year’s bipartisan
budget agreement. Republicans need to keep their word.

Of course, we do prepare for every contingency. OMB and agencies are
making preparations for every program. But, again, that is — that is out
of caution.

This could all be prevented if House Republicans keep their word and do
their jobs.

Q What is the President’s message to progressives who do not want to be
dragged into another war in the Middle East?

MR. BATES: You — you heard Admiral Kirby directly a moment ago that we
are not looking for any kind of war. This was a proportionate action
justified by the circumstances, an act of self-defense with bipartisan
support.

And, again, we — we have sent strong warnings to the Houthis about how
reckless and unjustified this behavior is.

AIDE: Thank you, everybody.

Q Donald Trump says he wants to make tax cuts permanent if he’s elected
in 2025. Does the White House have a reaction to at all?

MR. BATES: With the — with the caveat that we do not comment on the 2024
elections, yesterday’s news that, in 2023, inflation dropped by almost
two thirds from its peak builds on the progress we’ve been achieving for
American families. And that news highlights why there’s every reason to
continue the economic growth and momentum of Bidenomics, not decimate
the middle class with the hi- — the — the cost-hiking MAGAnomics agenda
that Republican officials are proposing.

Americans are now wealthier than during the Trump administration.
Americans are earning more than during the Trump administration. More
Americans are working than during the Trump administration.

As we’re talking about today, more small businesses are being created
than at any point in American history. And a record-breaking number of
Americans have gained healthcare coverage.

MAGAnomics would threaten to reverse all those gains by selling
middle-class families out to rich special interests, including by
demanding in — deficit-hiking tax giveaways for the wealthy and big
corporations. And we oppose those kinds of proposals.

Rather than tax welfare for the rich, like MAGAnomics calls for,
Bidenomics will continue to power the strongest economy in the world by
growing the middle class.

AIDE: Thank you, everybody.

MR. BATES: Thank you, all.

1:14 P.M. EST
