---
date: '2024-01-29'
modified_time: 2024-01-29 17:31:09-05:00
published_time: 2024-01-29 17:31:08-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/01/29/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-nsc-coordinator-for-strategic-communications-john-kirby-43/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and NSC Coordinator for\
  \ Strategic Communications John\_Kirby"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

1:39 P.M. EST

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hello.  Good afternoon, everyone.

Q    Good afternoon.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  I have a couple things at the top, and
then we’ll get started. 

As the President said over the weekend, we have been working in good
faith and across the aisle to make real progress on one of the most
important issues we are facing: securing our border.  Now we need
Speaker Johnson to step up and provide the authorities and resources we
requested to secure the border. 

I want to point out one thing to all of you.  Until recently, Speaker
Johnson has also advocated for new resources and new legal authorities
via legislation to secure the border.

The Trump administration argued the same thing with the full-throated
endorsement of then-Congressman Mike Johnson. 

For his part, over the last two months, President Biden and his team
have been working with a bipartisan group of senators to put together
toughest — the toughest and the fairest border security bill in
history. 

This bipartisan agreement would deliver the resources the President
asked for in his supplemental, like 1,300 new Border Patrol agents, 375
new immigration judges, 1,600 new asylum officers, 100 cutting-edge
inspection machines to catch fentanyl.

It would also provide a president with a new emergency authority to
secure our border when it becomes overwhelmed.  And as you heard from
the President, he would use that authority if the bipartisan agreement
became law. 

Now, if Speaker Johnson continues to believe, as President Biden and
Republicans and Democrats in Congress do, that we have an imperative to
act immediately on the border, he should give this administration the
authority and funding we’re requesting to secure the border.

Now, after three months — or three months ago, President Biden issued a
landmark executive order to ensure that America leads the way in seizing
the promising — the promise and managing the risks of AI.

The order directed sweeping action to strengthen AI safety, security;
project — and protect Americans’ — pardon me — Americans’ privacy;
advance equity and civil rights; stand up for the consumers and workers;
promote innovation and competition; advance American leadership around
the world; and more.

Today, Deputy Chief of Staff Bruce Reed convened the White House AI
Council, consisting of top officials from across government.  Agencies
reported that they have completed all of the 90-day actions tasked by
the EO, including using the Defense Production Act to compel developers
of the most powerful AI systems to report vital information.  And they
have drafted a proposed rule to compel U.S. cloud companies to report on
providing computing power — competing — computing power to foreign
governments. 

President Biden’s directive to his team has been to move fast and fix
things.  In just 90 days, the Biden-Harris administration has taken the
most sweeping actions of any country to harness the promise of AI while
putting in place strong guardrails to protect against the risk.

Fifteen years ago, then-President Obama signed the Lilly Ledbetter Fair
— Fair Pay Act into law, making — marking a victory in the — in the
fight for equal pay. 

To build on the progress we’ve made under this law, today President
Biden announced new actions to advance pay equity for the federal
workforce and employees of federal contractors. 

These new actions will help pay millions of workers fairly, close gender
and racial wage gaps, and result in tangible benefits for government
workers. 

These policies are good for workers, our economy, and American
families. 

They advance pay equity and strengthen the economic security of women
across the country.

And President — and the President remains committed to building on this
work.

And finally, I have two shoutouts in the room. 

First, I just wanted to introduce you all to Sam Michel, who is joining
us in the briefing room today.  He has been loaned to us by — from
USTR.  I want to ca- — personally thank the Administrator for allowing
Sam to be with us while — while Emilie is — is on maternity leave. 
He’ll be, of course, Acting Deputy Press Secretary while she’s out.  We
hope you take a moment to come to the back, come to Lower Press, and say
hello to Sam.  We’re very, very happy to have him for these next couple
of months.

And one more shoutout.  We want to congratulate Doug Mills on becoming a
grandfather — congratulations, Doug — and welcome you back to the
briefing room.  I know you’ve been gone for some time, and we are really
excited to have you back.  And again, congratulations.  We have missed
you, my friend.

And, finally, I’m going to give it over to Admiral John Kirby, who’s
going to give an update on the Middle East.

Admiral.

MR. KIRBY:  Thank you, Karine.  Good afternoon, everybody.

Q    Good afternoon.

MR. KIRBY:  I know there’s a lot of interest — and rightly so — in the
attacks — attack that our troops faced over the weekend in Jordan — an
attack that claimed three of their lives and sent more than 30 of them
to the hospital, some with serious injuries.

So, I just want to make a few points right at the top.

First, the President and the First Lady — as well as everyone in the
administration — send their condolences to the family of those who were
killed.

No Blue Star family ever wants to become a Gold Star family.  And sadly,
there are now three more families on that roster.  It’s hard to imagine
the grief they’re feeling right now and that they will feel for the rest
of their lives.

We want them to know that we’ll make sure that they get all the support
that they need and that we mourn with them.

We also wish a complete recovery for all those wounded in this attack. 
They are receiving and will continue to receive the very best medical
care that the military can provide them.

Second, these troops were conducting a vital mission in the region,
aimed at helping us work with partners to counter ISIS.  And even as the
Defense Department gathers more information about the attack, that
mission must and will continue.

Third, the counter-ISIS mission is separate and distinct –indeed it has
been longstanding and unrelated to our efforts to support Israel and to
prevent a wider conflict in the region.

We do not seek another war.  We do not seek to escalate.

But we will absolutely do what is required to protect ourselves, to
continue that mission, and to respond appropriately to these attacks.

Now, I know the first set of questions I’m going to get are: “Well, what
does that look like?  What’s appropriate?  And what response options is
the President considering?”  I hope you can understand why I will not
telegraph any punches here from the podium, nor will I get in front of
the President or his decision-making.

He’s met twice with the national security team — yesterday and today. 
He’s weighing the options before him.

As he said yesterday, we will respond.  We’ll do that on our schedule,
in our own time.  And we’ll do it in a manner of the President’s
choosing as Commander-in-Chief. 

We’ll also do it fully cognizant of the fact that these groups, backed
by Tehran, have just taken the lives of American troops.  And I think
I’ll leave it there. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Inaudible.)

MR. KIRBY:  Now, quickly, just on one other topic.  Over the weekend —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sorry.

MR. KIRBY:  No, I’m sorry.

Over the weekend, National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan held more than
12 hours of meetings in Bangkok with his counterpart from the People’s
Republic of China, Director Wang Yi. 

Mr. Sullivan and Director Wang took stock of progress on key issues
following the meeting between President Biden and President Xi back in
November.  Now, that includes discussing efforts to resume
military-to-military communication, which has occurred; addressing
artificial intelligence safety and risks; and advancing bilateral
counternar- — counternarcotics cooperation.

In fact, the launch of a working group on counternarcotics will begin
tomorrow in Beijing.  Our delegation will be led by Deputy Homeland
Security Advisor Jen Daskal.

The two sides also held constructive discussions on global and regional
issues, including those related to Russia’s war against Ukraine; the
Middle East, of course; the DPRK; the South China Sea; and Burma.  And
they also discussed cross-Strait issues.

And with that, I will take some questions.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Zeke.

Q    Thanks, John.  A couple of just basic fact-pattern questions.  Can
you confirm that the initial report suggests that there’s the — this —
the attack drone that killed the U.S. forces were misidentified for a
U.S. drone that was returning to that base?

MR. KIRBY:  I cannot. 

Q    Can you update us on has the U.S. definitively — definitively
confirmed attribution of the attack beyond just vaguely “Iran-backed
militias.”  Do you have the specific militia groups that you know
launched this attack?

MR. KIRBY:  We’re still working our way through that right now.

Q    You said that the President was still weighing his options.  Does
that imply that the President right now has not made a decision how he
wants to respond?

MR. KIRBY:  I won’t get ahead of the President’s decision-making.  He —
as I said, he met twice with the national security team, including not
just — not very long ago.  When we have something to speak to, we’ll
speak to it.

Q    And will — speaking of speaking to it, will we hear directly from
the President?  Will he speak to the American people about this attack
and his response when it happens?

MR. KIRBY:  Well, he mentioned it yesterday in South Carolina.  I won’t
— I don’t have anything on his schedule to speak to, but I have no doubt
that he’ll continue to communicate with the American people about how
important it is that these missions continue and that our troops and our
facilities are safe. 

Q    And last one for me.  Has the President directed any change to
force posture in the region to protect American troops there?

MR. KIRBY:  We don’t talk about force posture changes one way or
another, and we certainly don’t preannounce them, particularly when it
comes to areas on the ground that are potentially under threat.

I can just tell you that the President is confident that the Defense
Department, under Secretary Austin, will do what they got to do to — to
look after force protection issues.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Kelly O.

Q    John, do you expect the President will go to Dover for the
dignified transfer when these Americans are returned to the United
States?

MR. KIRBY:  I don’t have anything on his schedule to speak to.

Q    Given the fact that, while there are Americans in harm’s way
frequently, it has been a while since we have had this kind of an
incident resulting in deaths, do you think that is a consideration of
the public type of response? 

There are a range of responses the President could use.  They go from,
you know, military strikes, to — sometimes it’s cyber, sometimes it’s
things the public cannot see.  Do you believe this event rises to a
level where whatever the President’s decision is, would have a public —
we would know when —

MR. KIRBY:  You mean you’re going to know?

Q    Yeah.

MR. KIRBY:  Well, again, without getting ahead of the President’s
decision-making — I won’t do that.  And as I said, in my opening
statement, I’m not going to telegraph punches.  We’ll make these
decisions on our own time, as I said.  We’ll — the President will choose
for himself how he wants to respond. 

And as I said in the opening statement, we’ll do it fully cognizant of
the fact that now and just — and what just happened, American lives have
been taken.  And so, his decisions, whatever they are, will be informed
by all those circumstances. 

What that looks like and when that comes, I’m just — I’m just not able
to say right now.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Selina.

Q    Thanks, Admiral.  Was this strike in Jordan fundamentally different
than what American forces have been facing for months now?  In other
words, does the U.S. believe this was a deliberate attempt at
escalation?

MR. KIRBY:  It is fundamentally different now because we have three
families who just got the worst possible news.  That’s different.  And
the scope of the wounded now — more than 30 injured, some of them
seriously — that’s also different. 

And it’s possible that the number of wounded could go up.  As you may
know, traumatic brain injury symptoms, for instance, don’t present
themselves right away.  And that is a very serious physical injury
itself. 

But, I — look, I — it is — this wasn’t the first drone attack on an
American facility in the region.  There have been others.  And the fact
that this one had lethal consequences doesn’t mean that the previous
ones weren’t intended by these Iran-backed militias to have that same
effect.  This time they killed Americans, and they wounded a lot of
them.  It doesn’t mean that they wouldn’t have preferred that outcome in
the past.

Q    An official has told ABC News — confirming the report about how the
troops there had mistakenly identified the drone as one of their own. 
Can you talk about how this might have gotten past the defense systems
at Tower 22?

MR. KIRBY:  I think I’m going to let the Defense Department talk about
the forensics on this.  I’m sure that they are already picking it apart
and trying to figure out how this happened, and that be inappropriate
for me to get ahead of that.

Q    In your interviews all morning, you didn’t rule out a strike inside
Iran.  Can you just talk a little bit about the array of options in
front of the President, and, for instance, could this be in phases? 
Could we see a smaller scale one than a larger scale one later?  Like
what — what —

MR. KIRBY:  No —

Q    — what’s the array of options?

MR. KIRBY:  No, I’m not going to do that.  I appreciate the question. 
And that’s why I tried to take it out of the consideration in my opening
statement.  I’m not going to — I’m simply not going to talk about that
right now.

Q    And just lastly, do you think this could complicate the ongoing
ceasefire negotiations to release more hostages?

MR. KIRBY:  There’s no reason that — whatever our response is, there’s
no reason for that to have an impact on our ability to try to get these
hostages released. 

And as I said last week, so I can say today: Those discussions are
ongoing.  We believe they have been constructive and are moving in a
good direction.  Don’t want to sound sanguine here.  There’s a lot of
work left to be done.  We don’t have an imminent deal to speak to.  But
based on the discussions we’ve had over the weekend and — and in recent
days, we feel it’s moving in a good direction.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Jeff.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  John, how does the President balance a desire to
not see escalation in the region with a decision to respond?

MR. KIRBY:  That’s the hard part of it, isn’t it, Jeff?  I mean, that’s
what being Commander-in-Chief is all about, is — is acting in accordance
with our national security interests –what’s — what’s unacceptable to
those interests and what has to be done to protect those interests. 

There’s no easy answer here.  And that’s why the President is meeting
with his national security team, weighing the options before him.  He’ll
do that, as he’s done in the past, in a very careful, deliberate way so
that our national security insers \[sic\] are — our interests are best
preserved.

Q    And has the President — has the administration communicated via a
third party to Iran what — the message that you’re saying on TV about
not wanting to have escalation?

MR. KIRBY:  I am not aware, as you and I are speaking, that there’s been
a private message relayed to leaders in Iran.  We have done that in the
past.  But as you and I are speaking right now, I’m not aware of such a
mechanism.

Q    And just on the hostages, can you give us an update on the latest
there and what you expect in terms of a ceasefire (inaudible)?

MR. KIRBY:  Well, again, the discussions have been pretty constructive. 
What we’re — and I want to be careful here because I don’t want to say
anything that would torpedo the deal we’re trying to put in place.  But
what we’re — what we’re trying to work on is another humanitarian pause
of sufficient duration that will allow a large number of hostages to get
released. 

And as you’ve seen in the past, when we did this back in November,
you’ve got to have — you got to have a pause in the fighting to get them
safely out.  So, that’s what we’re — we’re aiming at. 

And then, of course, if you — if you get that period of time, whatever
that ends up being, then you can take advantage of it to get more
humanitarian assistance in.  And certainly, when — when there’s a pause
in the fighting, that means there will be a reduction in civilian
casualties, which is also a goal of ours.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  M.J.

Q    Admiral, can you confirm: Is the President currently actively
considering potential attacks inside Iran?

MR. KIRBY:  We are not looking for a war with Iran.  We are not seeking
a conflict with the regime in a military way.  And as I said in — in the
opening, we’re not — we’re not looking to escalate here. 

This attack over the weekend was escalatory.  Make no mistake about it. 
And it requires a response.  Make no mistake about that.

I will not get ahead of the President’s decision-making.

Q    So, you’re not saying either way whether striking inside Iran is or
isn’t on the table?

MR. KIRBY:  We are not looking for a war with Iran, M.J.  I am not going
to speak to the President’s decisions.

Q    And the administration’s assessment for a number of months now has
been that Iran does not want a direct war with the U.S., either.  Does
yesterday change that assessment?

MR. KIRBY:  I’m not at liberty to discuss — or to — to speculate about
what the Supreme Leader wants or doesn’t want.  Clearly, these attacks
continue, and now they’ve had lethal consequences.  We know these groups
are supported by Iran.  Make no mistake about that.  We know that. 

And this administration has taken action in the past to hold them
accountable, and we’ve taken action over the last three years to hold
Iran accountable for a range of destabilizing activities: issued more
than 500 sanctions — or 500 entity sanctions just since we came into
office, as well as changing our force posture in the Middle East
appropriately.

So, we’ll just — I mean, w- — but we’re — we’ll continue to look at the
options available to us.

Q    Is it clear to you now whether the attack yesterday was at Iran’s
direct urging or if this was more a proxy group that was mostly acting
on its own?

MR. KIRBY:  I’m not going to talk about intelligence issues.  We know
that Iran supports these — these groups.  The degree to which they order
and direct is — is something that, you know, intelligence analysts will
look at. 

We know they support them, we know they resource them, we know they
train them, and we know that they’re certainly not discouraging these
attacks, whether it’s attacks by the Houthis, what Hamas did on the 7th
of October, what Hezbollah has proven capable of doing, and now, of
course, what these militia groups continue to do in places like Iraq and
Syria and now — now Jordan.

Q    And just one last one on the UNRWA controversy.  Israel says that
they have information about 13 employees who were connected to the
October 7th attack.  Do you have any reason to believe that that might
have been more widespread, that there could be information that later
indicates that it was beyond those 13 people? 

MR. KIRBY:  I haven’t seen any information that affirmatively makes that
case, that it’s more than, now, 13.  I think last week, we were looking
at a dozen.  That’s why an investigation is so dang important here, so
that we can look at the scope of the problem set. 

But you got 13,000 UNRWA employees — the U.N. Relief and Works Agency —
you’ve got 13,000 of them in Gaza alone.  And, as I said last week,
let’s not impugn the good work of a whole agency because of the
potential bad actions here by a small number. 

I am not dismissing the seriousness of the allegations against those
employees.  And whether there’s going to be more that will be found,
hopefully the investigation will — will give us more insight. 

It is important — the UNRWA staff and Commissioner-General and the U.N.
Secretary General Guterres last week made it clear they’re taking this
seriously.  That’s our expectation too.

It’s really important that this investigation be as thorough and as
transparent and as credible as possible.  And we’re going to be watching
real closely.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Michael.

Q    John, can I push you a little bit more on the hostages and the
linkage between the — potential linkage between the hostages and
whatever action you guys decide to take? 

One of the things you guys talked about since — since October 7th is how
intertwined the region is — whether it’s Lebanon and Hezbollah or Hamas
or Iran or the — you know, the Houthis — and the — the difficulty with —
with, you know, not wanting to set fire in — you know, a spark in one
place that then, you know, goes all around the region.

So, what gives you any confidence that if you guys are close to a deal
on the hostages and then the President orders a strike, that that deal
doesn’t fall apart as a — as a result of outrage and anger in the region
at the actions of the United States? 

And how does the President — you know, how does the President make that
calculation given, you know, six Americans still in — in Gaza and the
other hostages and everything else?

MR. KIRBY:  I didn’t say we were confident though, Mike.  We — we’re
mindful of — of the way some actors in the region are trying to make
connections across the region. 

What I — what I said was there’s no reason why our work on a hostage
deal needs to be affected or impacted by what happened over the weekend
or what we do about what happened over the weekend.  And we will
respond. 

We still want to keep the work going, our shoulder to the wheel on this
hostage deal.  And — and we’ll just have to see where it goes. 

I also want to repeat what I said earlier.  We’re not overly sanguine
here.  We’re not cocky.  We understand there’s a lot of hard work
ahead.  And that work ahead of us diplomatically, certainly, might be
affected by — by events elsewhere in the region, not just — not just
what happened in Jordan and what — what might come as a result of that.

But there’s no reason why it should, and that’s why we’re going to stay
at that task.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Francesca.

Q    Over here.  Thanks, Kirby.  Given these deaths, does the White
House acknowledge that the previous retaliatory strikes that it has
taken in the region have been ineffective at protecting American
troops? 

MR. KIRBY:  The strikes that we have taken in the past have definitely
had an impact on degrading and disrupting the activities of some of
these groups.  Clearly, they have decided to keep conducting those
attacks.  And now it’s had lethal consequences for American troops. 

And so, we will weigh an additional set of options before us.  The
President will make his decision to respond appropriately.  The attacks
need to stop. 

Q    Does the President have all the legal authority he believes that he
needs to respond to these attacks? 

MR. KIRBY:  Yes. 

Q    What is the legal basis?

MR. KIRBY:  Article Two, Constitution.  Commander-in-Chief, self-defense
of our troops.

Q    Doesn’t believe he needs additional authority from Congress?

MR. KIRBY:  The President has the authority to take the action he needs
to — to protect our troops and our facilities overseas under Article
Two. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Danny.

Q    Thanks.  The President faces a great deal of political pressure
here at home — with the Republicans, for example, calling for direct
strikes on Iran.  Does the President feel that pressure?  And how much
does that pressure weigh on his — on his decision-making?

MR. KIRBY:  The pressure the President is feeling, if you want to call
it that, is to make sure we can continue to protect and defend our
national security interests in the region. 

First and foremost, his mind is solidly, as I put my opening statement,
on the families of those who just got the worst possible news you can
and troops that are in the hospital trying to recover.

Number two, on the vital mission sets that our troops are performing
across the region — in this particular case, a counter-ISIS
(inaudible). 

That’s the pressure he’s under to make sure that those troops get the
support that they need, get the resources they need, and that the
mission is able to continue; and that our national security interests in
the region, which are wide and varied, are preserved and protected. 

Q    And just one other thing, if I may.  You — you said earlier that,
you know, this attack was — (a reporter sneezes) — escalatory — 

MR. KIRBY:  Bless you.

Q    — but the United States doesn’t want a war.  Do you believe that
Iran wants a war?

MR. KIRBY:  That’s up to Iran to decide and for Iran to speak to.  I
can’t, as I said earlier, speak for the Supreme Leader.  I wouldn’t do
that. 

Clearly, there’s a calculus by at least the IRGC that conducting these
attacks is — is worth the risk that they’re taking.  And we obviously
are going to keep working to change that calculus. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.

Q    Thank you.  So, NATO Secretary-General Jens Stol- — Stoltenberg is
in Washington.  What are you hearing for — from the NATO Allies?  Are
you — sharing with you any concern about the possibility of a wider war?

MR. KIRBY:  You talking about the Middle East?  Yeah, we’re — we’re glad
the Secretary-General is here.  I think he met with Secretary Austin
this morning.  I know he’s meeting with Jake Sullivan today.  Lots on
the agenda. 

I won’t speak for our Allies or the Secretary General.  I think it’s
safe to say that our — many of our European Allies certainly share our
concerns about what’s going on in the Middle East.  I mean, my goodness,
many of them are participants — willing participants in our coalition in
the Red Sea to protect shipping there. 

So, clearly, they have concerns about that.  And I have no doubt that
the Secretary-General will raise those issues with Jake and — and did
raise it with Secretary Austin.

Q    And another question, if I may, around the U.N. Agency for
Palestinian Refugees.  Several American allies are suspending their aid
to the agency. 

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah.

Q    But others are saying, “Okay, we can’t cut off money right now amid
need warnings of famine, the collapse of the health system —

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah.

Q    — and so many Palestinians displaced.” 

The agency is saying that it will run out of money very soon.  Do you
fear that suspending the American aid to this agency is going to deepen
the humanitarian crisis in Gaza?  Do you have a plan B, an alternative
to bring aid to the Palestinians?

MR. KIRBY:  I think a lot of it is going to depend on what the
investigation finds and what accountability measures and corrective
measures UNRWA is willing to make as a result of what happened. 

I mean, these are serious allegations, even though it’s a small number,
percentage-wise, of the — of the 13,000 who are on the ground in Gaza. 
I mean, this is serious, and they are taking it seriously. 

So, let’s see where the investigation goes.  We understand that they are
very, very dependent on donor contributions, and the United States has
been the leading donor for many, many years. 

We have suspended our — our contributions to UNRWA pending the results
of this investigation — all the more reason that, as I said, this
investigation be credible, transparent, and thorough, and frankly,
timely. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Franco.

Q    Thanks, John.  And thanks, Karine.  I wanted to ask about the
border.  President Biden talked about shutting down the border on the
basis of national security.  Are there not steps that he could use under
executive authority to — some measures to, kind of, seal some of the
border efforts? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  He has said he’s — he’s willing to use executive
measures and — and, you know, if he gets — if he gets the — the bill
passed, if he gets border funding, and it — and includes those
authorities, he’ll use those authorities. 

Q    Why not — why wait — why wait until Congress?  Why not —

MR. KIRBY:  We need — we need — we need legislative support for border
security measures.  And we need the funding to be able to put in place
border security measures that the President can utilize. 

He has done some things, like putting U.S. troops down there to
alleviate some of the responsibilities or administrative
responsibilities of Border Patrol.  And — but we need this — we need
this funding. 

Q    And if I could ask about Venezuela.  Is the President considering
any steps to take against Venezuela, whether it’s tightening sanctions
regarding the high court’s decision to uphold the ban on the only viable
opposition candidate posing a challenge to Maduro?

MR. KIRBY:  The Maduro regime, when they signed an — signed on in
October down in Barbados, made some commitments about opposition
political parties, about free and fair elections, and what all that
meant.  And they haven’t taken those actions.

Now, accordingly, they got until April to do so, so we have options
available to us.  I’m not going to preview any of those at — at this
time.  But we certainly have options, with respect to sanctions and that
kind of thing that — that we could take.  They — they’ve got until
April.  They need to make the right decisions here and allow opposition
members to run for office and release the political prisoners that
they’re holding right now.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.

Q    Thank you.  Admiral, so, the U.S. is backing Israel annihilating
Hamas, which is an Iranian proxy.  But why isn’t the U.S. doing the same
thing with other Iranian proxies, like the one in Iraq, the one in Syria
— which resulted in the death of the three servicemen — and, down the
road, maybe in Yemen?  Why is — there’s, like, a — not a consistency?

MR. KIRBY:  Hamas violated a ceasefire that was in place, slaughtered
1,200 people, basically started this war against Israel.  We’re going to
support our ally and our partner, Israel, as they fight this war. 

We are not — let me go back to what I said in the pas- — in the
beginning: We’re not looking for a war with Iran, and —

Q    Aren’t we already at war with Iran? 

MR. KIRBY:  We’re not looking —

Q    Isn’t that clear?

MR. KIRBY:  We’re not looking for a war with Iran. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Jacqui.

Q    And can you —

Q    Thanks, Karine.  John, I just want to clarify two of your previous
answers in this briefing. 

Are you suggesting, in response to the border question, that the
President is withholding executive action on the border until he gets
the money that is part of this supplemental?

MR. KIRBY:  No, I’m not suggesting that.  I’m suggesting that the way
forward — the proper way forward is to get the supplemental passed.

Q    Okay. 

And then, in response to M.J.’s question earlier, it sounded like the
administration has ruled out strikes within Iran. 

MR. KIRBY:  Jacqui, I appreciate the question.  I think you can
understand — I hope you can understand I’m not going to telegraph
punches here.  We are not looking for a war with Iran.  We are not
looking to escalate the tensions any more than they already have been
escalating.  In fact, everything we’ve done has been designed to try to
deescalate those tensions.

That said, this was a very serious attack; it had lethal consequences. 
We will respond, and we’ll respond appropriately.  I’m not going to
telegraph what that’s going to look like.

Q    The question, though, was if you were actively considering targets
inside Iran.  And your answer was, “We don’t seek conflict with Iran,”
which indicates that the administration would view strikes within Iran
as escalatory. 

And so, is it that the administration ultimately does not hold Iran
responsible for these attacks or that the current level of risk and loss
to U.S. troops is somehow acceptable?

MR. KIRBY:  I do appreciate the question and the chance to — to say it
again: I am not going to telegraph punches for the President of the
United States.  I’m not going to get ahead of his decision space on how
he’s going to respond.  We’ll respond appropriately. 

And you’re — you know, you’re right.  This attack had lethal
consequences, which these attacks in the past have not had.  And as I
said in my opening statement, as we work through what those options are,
we’ll be mindful and informed by the fact that there are now three
American soldiers that have been killed. 

Q    So, it’s clear, obviously that “don’t” didn’t work.  Does the
President have any regret over not pushing — punching back harder in any
of the prior responses that he’s taken to these proxy attacks on U.S.
forces?

MR. KIRBY:  I would — I think I would push back on the idea that we did
push back harder.  We have taken significant action against Iran
economically.  We have certainly taken some additional and more
aggressive steps to go after these groups.  We’re certainly taking
aggressive action against the Houthis to try to defend shipping in the
Red Sea. 

I mean, this idea that somehow we’ve just, you know, whistled past the
graveyard here and — and walked away from the challenge that Iran poses
just isn’t borne out by the facts.

Q    Well, you —

MR. KIRBY:  Iran — these proxy groups have been attacking our troops and
our facilities in Iraq and Syria well before this administration as
well. 

Q    There’s been pretty strong criticism —

MR. KIRBY:  And we —

Q    — though.  Like, for instance, Mike Waltz said this morning that,
“When you’re trying to play defense constantly, rather than punching
back in a meaningful way, this blood is on this administration’s
hands.”  What — what is the response from the White House to an
accusation like that?

MR. KIRBY:  What I would tell you and I would tell the congressman is:
We’re mindful of what Iran is doing in the region, and we have taken
aggressive action against these proxy groups and about — and on their
influence in the region.  And there are decisions yet to come. 

So, let the President make his decisions.  Let him weigh these options. 
And then we’ll act.  These groups have choices to make, and we’re going
to do everything we can to — to make sure that they make the right
choice here. 

But the idea that we have somehow laid down and — and not pushed back on
Iran is simply not borne out by the facts. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Go ahead, Ken.

Q    John, in Israel over the weekend, some ministers from the Netanyahu
government attended a conference that is calling for Israel’s
resettlement of Gaza.  Did the administration notice that?  And do you
have any —

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah, we noticed it.

Q    — view on that?

MR. KIRBY:  Some of this rhetoric and the language that was attributed
to some of these ministers at this event — irresponsible; reckless;
incendiary, I’d go so far as to say.  And certainly isn’t — doesn’t
comport with our strong policy statement, what we have made clear, that
there can be no reduction in Gazan territory. 

Q    What does it say, though, about the persuasion efforts you’ve made
to try to prevent Israel from pursuing these settlements?

MR. KIRBY:  Look, I wouldn’t — you know, you got a couple of ministers
in the Cabinet using this reckless behavior or conducting this reckless
behavior and making these incendiary comments.  That doesn’t mean that
we still don’t have an open line of communication with Prime Minister
Netanyahu and his Cabinet, the War Cabinet, and that they haven’t been
receptive to — to listening to us and to our messages. 

I — you know, these are individual Cabinet members.  They can speak for
themselves and what they — and what they said and what they did. 

It doesn’t comport with our view, and we find it reckless.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  In the back.  Go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  Oh, sorry. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.

Q    You said that the President, in his response, has authorization
under Article Two.  Does that mean that he’s planning to bypass Congress
in any matter of war in terms of this response?

MR. KIRBY:  I’m not going to get ahead of his decision-making.  He has
the authority under Article — Article Two as Commander-in-Chief.  And as
we have in the past, so we will in the future, appropriately inform
leaders in Congress about what we’re doing in — in keeping with that
authority.

Q    Okay.  So, I just want to follow up, because the President was sent
a letter on Friday from a bipartisan group of lawmakers, and he had been
accused of unauthorized strikes against the Houthis.  And by bypassing
Congress, they said, “No President, regardless of political party, has
the constitutional authority to bypass Congress on matters of war.”  Do
you think that that would apply here given this escalation?

MR. KIRBY:  We’re not at war with the Houthis.  We’re not going to be at
— we’re not looking for a war with Iran.  The President is comfortable
that he has the appropriate legal authorities to act in self-defense of
our ships, our sailors, and our troops and our facilities at sea or
ashore.

Q    Right, but isn’t it time to involve the American people?  I mean,
given the fact that the American people were not happy about — I mean,
all —

MR. KIRBY:  This is what the American people are not happy about:
attacks on commercial shipping in the Red Sea.  I also suspect they’re
not happy about seeing American troops killed at a base in Jordan.  The
President has the authority to defend those troops and those facilities,
and he’ll do that.

Q    You said the President is weighing all of his options.  This is an
election year.  Is the President looking at his polling when he’s
weighing all of these options?  Is the President looking at what —

MR. KIRBY:  I mean, my goodness.  That’s a heck of a question.  He’s not
looking —

Q    Not really.

MR. KIRBY:  Ma’am.

Q    Not really.

MR. KIRBY:  Ma’am.  Ma’am.

Q    Is the —

MR. KIRBY:  Let me just stop you right there. 

Q    Let me finish my question.

MR. KIRBY:  The Commander-in-Chief is not looking at polling or
considering the electoral calendar —

Q    He’s not looking at —

MR. KIRBY:  — when he’s defending —

Q    — how they feel about the war on Gaza?

MR. KIRBY:  I’ll — now can I answer the question? 

He’s not looking at political calculations or the polling or the
electoral calendar as he works to protect our troops ashore and our
ships at sea.  And any suggestion to the contrary is offensive.

Q    Is he looking at the polling with respect to —

MR. KIRBY:  Ma’am.

Q    — does the American public want a broader Middle East conflict when
he weighs his political decision-making?

MR. KIRBY:  Ma’am, I’ve answered that question. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Let’s go.

Q    No, you didn’t answer that question.  Is he weighing that?

MR. KIRBY:  He is not concerning himself with the political calendar.

Q    Does the American public have the opportunity —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.

Q    — to weigh in on whether —

MR. KIRBY:  Ma’am, I —

Q    — they want “Made in America” —

MR. KIRBY:  I have answered your —

Q    — stamped on the bombs —

MR. KIRBY:  Ma’am, I’ve answered your question.

Q    — that are going to be dropped?

MR. KIRBY:  I —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We’re going to move on.  Go ahead, Phil.

MR. KIRBY:  Thanks, Karine.

Q    You touched on this briefly in response, I think, to Jacqui’s
question.  But what is the President’s response to Republican critics
who are of the mind that this attack was the result of perceived
weakness? 

For instance, the chairman of the House Armed Services Committee said
that, “President Biden’s fear of escalation has morphed into a doctrine
of appeasement.”

MR. KIRBY:  They can speak for themselves.  That’s obviously not the way
we see this.  We have held Iran accountable, as I’ve said, through
various means and methods.  We will continue to do that.  We’ll continue
to act to defend our — our troops and our facilities and the missions
and our national security interests.

Q    And then a follow-up on the border.  The terms of the Senate deal
that are under discussion would get — give DHS expulsion authority if
border encounters hit an average of 4,000 a day over the course of a
week.  Does the President consider that threshold of daily encounters a
crisis?

MR. KIRBY:  I’m not going to negotiate in public.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Go ahead —

Q    I’m not asking — of course, (inaudible) —

MR. KIRBY:  You’re asking me about a specific provision that the — that
you allege is in the deal.  And, as Karine has said many, many times —
and she’s absolutely right — we’re not going to negotiate here in public
on what — what’s in or what’s not in this — in this deal.

Q    Setting aside the deal in question and waiting for more details to
come to light, is there a number, in particular, with regards to border
cr- — crossings that the President would see as a crisis?

MR. KIRBY:  The President himself has talked about the fact that — that
there’s a crisis going on at the border and the numbers are too high and
we’re going to do what we have to do — regionally — not just with our
own Border Patrol but regionally with Mexico and other countries — to
see if we can get that — that number down.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  We’ve got to wrap this up.  Go ahead.

Q    A question on Venezuela.  My colleagues are reporting that the
administration will restore sanctions on the country’s energy sector if
opposition candidates are not allowed to run.  If Venezuela were to lift
that ban, would the U.S. not take the options that you were referring to
earlier?

MR. KIRBY:  A lot is going to depend here on what Maduro and his regime
do.  They’ve got until the spring to honor their commitments — the
commitments they made back in October — to allow opposition parties and
opposition candidates to run freely, as qualified, for President and to
release political prisoners.  They’ve got the decision make — they’ve
got decisions they have to make before we weigh what decisions we’ll —
we’ll take.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay, Jon.  We’ve got to wrap this up.

Q    Thanks a lot, Karine.  John, the Iranian foreign ministry has
denied any involvement in this drone strike in northeast Jordan.  What’s
your response to that denial?

MR. KIRBY:  They support these groups, they resource them, they provide
them weapons, they train them.  They certainly aren’t discouraging these
attacks.  Now, what — to what degree it was directed out of Tehran, I
can’t — I can’t say.  And I wouldn’t get into intelligence assessments
one way or another. 

But, clearly, they continue to support these groups.  So, clearly,
there’s a — there is a responsibility that appropriately needs to be
laid at the feet of leaders in Tehran.

Q    And then you also said the President is consulting with his
national security advisors in terms of what steps he may take in
response to what happened on Sunday.  Will the President also reach out
to congressional leaders just to consult with them?  Will he reach out
to, for instance, the —

MR. KIRBY:  As we have in the past, so we will in the future.  We will
con- — we will do appropriate notifications with leaders of — in
Congress, as we have just in the recent past.  We’ll continue to do that
appropriately going forward.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Last question.  Go ahead.

Q    Yes.  Thank you.  Thank you, Karine.  Thank you, Kirby.  Two
questions.  The AP is reporting that, apparently, there was a confusion
between this enemy drone and another drone that has been launched out of
this U.S. installation, and I guess two officials have stated that this
was a confusion.  Apparently, the enemy drone was confused with an
American drone that was returning back to the U.S. installation.  Do you
guys have any information about that?

MR. KIRBY:  That was, I think, one of the first questions I got here in
the briefing.  And, as I said then, we — we can- –I can’t corroborate
those accounts by — by U.S. officials.  The Department of Defense is, as
you would expect them to do, going through all the forensics here to
figure out exactly what happened and how to make sure it doesn’t happen
again.  And I certainly would not get ahead of them on that.

Q    Now, just one — going back to the Venezuelan subject that we’ve
been discussing.  As you know, María Corina Machado is the leading
opposition candidate there.  She’s been banned from running for office
for 15 years by the Venezuelan Supreme Court.  Does that put things in
perspective, because there is some reporting that the U.S. is expected
to renew the sanctions against the Venezuelan oil —

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah, again, I — we’ve now dealt with it a few times.  I
don’t have any additional context to — to relay to you.  Mr. Maduro and
his regime have decisions they have to make.  We want to see him meet
the commitments they made back in October to allow opposition parties
and candidates to run appropriately and to release political prisoners. 

We have decisions to make as well if they don’t do that.  They’ve got
until April.  We’ll see what they do.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Appreciate it.  Thank you.

Q    Thank you, John.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Zeke.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Has the President called already or does he plan
to speak with the families of the fallen service members?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have any calls to read out.  Obviously — and
as Kirby started off this briefing, obviously, the President and the
First Lady sent out their deepest condolences and heartfelt thoughts to
the families, to their friends, and also the units — their un- — their
unit as well. 

And this is a sad day.  This — yesterday was a very, very sad day for
not just their family and the units and the friends but also the
American people.  And so, obviously, we continue to mourn with them. 
Once we have more to share about a call or outreach, certainly we will
let you all know.

Q    And the President is scheduled to travel tomorrow on some political
travel to Florida.  Does he — does he plan to keep that or is he going
to stay back in Washington to consult with his national security team?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, the President will continue his travels tomorrow
to Florida.  It’s a — it’s a political travel.  So, any specific
questions you may have — I know you’re not asking me —

Q    (Inaudible.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, I — I know.  You know — I know you’re going to
ask me that.  Obviously, the campaign is going to — will answer those
questions about the particular travel tomorrow. 

The President has been, I think — I think the Admiral started off the
briefing saying that the President met with his national security team,
including Secretary Austin, this morning and continues to stay focused
on what’s going on, obviously, in the Middle East and continues to stay
updated.  Just don’t have anything to share beyond that. 

Q    And why is he going to continue traveling — do political travel in
the midst of this (inaudible) —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, as you know, and you heard — hear us say this
all the time: The President is president wherever he travels, wherever
he goes.  It doesn’t change in this instance.

Obviously — obviously, what we saw happen yesterday in Jordan to our
service members is — it’s a sad day.  It’s deeply troubling.  And you
heard the President yesterday in South Carolina.  I know you were part
of the pool that was traveling with him this weekend.  He — he said, “We
shall respond.”  And he means that.

Obviously, we’re not going to telegraph what that’s going to look like
and, you know, the President is going to make that decision.  Just don’t
have anything else to share. 

But he can be president — he was able to speak to that in South Carolina
at a political event and make sure that he lifted up the three souls, as
he said, who were lost yesterday. 

And so, he can certainly be able to deal with an issue like this — you
know, a — a very important one, obviously — anywhere that he is. 

Q    And then lastly from me, is the administration contemplating any
changes to the supplemental funding request for additional needs for
security for the American troops in the region after this instance or
the potential response — 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m — somebody was coughing, so I missed the beginning
of your question.  I apologize. 

Q    Changes to the supplemental.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Changes to the supplemental?

Q    Yeah.  In light of recent events, will more funding be needed? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, I see.  So, look, I — look, I don’t have any
changes to the supplemental.  Obviously, the President, back in October,
put forth his national security request, which is obviously an emergency
request, as presidents tend to do.  I don’t have any changes to that. 

And there’s conversations — as you know, you hear us say it — say this
very often — negotiations happening in the Senate with Republicans and
Democrats on the border security piece, which is also part of the
supplemental.  And we want to see that — obviously, the supplemental
pass in its fullness in what the President put forth in October, and
that’s what we’re working towards. 

Go ahead, Nancy.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  On the immigration negotiations.  Over the
weekend, former President Trump urged his party to reject the deal.  He
said it’s “a very bad bill” and it’s okay.  He said, “Please blame it on
me.”  I wonder if I can get your reaction to that. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, what I will say this — is this.  You’ve heard the
President — you’ve heard the President loud and clear: Congress needs to
act.  It — we ne- — they must act. 

Speaker Johnson and House Republicans should — they should provide the
administration with the policy changes and also the funding needed to
deal with the border sec- — border security, and also immigration more
broadly, as we’re talking about an immigration system that has been
broken for some time. 

And let’s not forget, I mean, this is the thing — right? — what the —
what the senators in — the senators of both Republican side and Democrat
side have been talking about what they’re dealing with — the bipartisan
agreement that they’re coming forward with are things that House
Republicans have said and Republicans more broadly said they wanted. 

They have said over and over again this is what they want to see.  They
want to see tough — a tough — tough changes, right?  They want to see
something that’s actually going to be instrumental in — in being able to
deal with what we’re seeing at the border. 

This is what is being worked on.  This is what is being worked on right
now.  And so, if Republicans are serious — if they are serious about
addressing the situation at the border, if they are serious about
addressing the security at the border, if they are serious about really
changing — changing real policies and — and coming up with — with
policies that’s going to make a difference and putting forward
resources, then they would be part of getting this bipartisan agreement
passed. 

This is exactly what they’ve been asking for — literally what
Republicans have been asking for.  And now here it is.  It’s coming to
fruition.  It’s being discussed.  There’s potential bipartisan
agreement. 

That’s what the American people want to see.  Seventy-five percent of
the American people have said that they want this issue to be dealt with
— an issue that — again, that they have been for — that they have been
for for years. 

So, they should get on board.  They should get on board and help the
senators get this done. 

Q    Why do you believe Republicans haven’t gotten on board?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  That’s for House Speaker — this is for the Speaker to
speak to.  He’s — he’s been very vocal about this.  The Speaker seems to
want to make this a political — a political football.  Right?  It’s like
a hot potato.  They don’t want to hold on to it. 

But this is exactly what — what the senators are talking about.  As it
relates to the border security, coming up with a bipartisan agreement is
exactly — is exactly what they’ve been talking about — coming together
with a tough, fair, bipartisan agreement that deals with the issue —
policy changes, funding, and resources — right? — that is needed so that
we can deal with what’s happening at the border and also really deal
with the immigration system more broadly. 

Q    If the deal does fall apart, are there elements of it that the
White House could tackle on its own without Congress?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I don’t want to get into hypotheticals. 
There’s a deal happening.  If I say — if I answer that — right? — then
it’s getting in the way of the negotiations.  I don’t want to do that. 
I want them to have the free space to be able to have honest, good-faith
conversations, as they’ve been doing for the past two months, and we
appreciate what’s happening in the Senate. 

We want to let that process go.  We think it’s moving in the right
direction.  Obviously, the President supports what’s happening.  Our
team has been working with them for the last two months.  It is
important discussion. 

And we believe, again, we can — we can get this done.  And we appreciate
Republicans and Democrats in the Senate working for the past two months,
through the holiday as well, to really try and work out a bipartisan
agreement.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  The President said the border deal that’s being
negotiated in the Senate would give him the power to close the border. 
Speaker Johnson, however, saying the President already has the authority
to do that without congressional reaction — action on this.  What’s your
response to that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I’ll say this.  Speaker Johnson has been very
clear as well, when he was pushing H.R.2, even during the Trump
administration, that presidents — presidents need new — they need actual
authority.  Right?  They need authority — enforcement authorities, and
they have said this. 

The Speaker, when he was then Congressman Johnson, said this.  “A
president needs authority to actually deal with the border sec- — border
and actually deal with the security at the border.” 

And so, I don’t know what’s changed.  I don’t know why, all of a sudden,
he believes that the President — the President doesn’t have — already
has the authority, when he says that the President needs authority. 
This is something the Trump administration said.  This is something that
they agreed when the Trump administration said.

And so, what is being discussed right now in — with the Sen- — in the
Senate is a new enforcement tools that do not currently exist — they do
not currently exist. 

And so, that’s what we’re — that’s what — that’s what the President is
speaking to.  You know, and he says the moment that he has those new
enforcement tools that he will act.  The day that he signs it, he will
act.

Q    This deal is angering immigration advocates.  What’s being
negotiated does not include anything to address the root problems of
migration, and it has nothing included to provide a pathway to
citizenship for DREAMers, which is something that President Biden called
for legislation he proposed on his first day.  So, why is the President
okay with this?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, we don’t — we don’t even have the text yet to — to
what’s being — you know, what the bipartisan agreement is going to be. 
Right?  So, I don’t want to get ahead of that.  I’m not going to dive
into what’s in it and what’s not in it.  Let’s see what the senators put
forward in the text.  I think that’s important to see.

Once — once it’s out there, folks will take a look.  We believe it’s
going to be — it’s going to be tough but fair and it’s going to provide
new enforcement tools.  Obviously, that’s going to be important.  Policy
changes.  That’s going to be important.  But also resources.  That what
— that’s what we believe.

But we’re not going to get into what’s in it, what’s not in it.  Let’s
let the senators continue to do their negotiations and put forward this
— the text. 

Q    But we’re already seeing immigration advocates slam what’s being
proposed as “callous,” —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I understand.

Q    — as “unworkable.”  So, how does the President respond to the
message from some people that he’s going back on his campaign promise?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I understand.  But what I’m saying to you is that
let’s see what the Senate bipartisan agreement is.  Let’s let them put
out the text, and then we can have that discussion on whatever it is
that they — they want to look through and discuss. 

But, right now, we believe this is the best way forward — a bipartisan
agreement is the way forward in dealing with this immigration system.  A
bipartisan agreement is what we need to deal with — what’s the
challenges that we’re seeing at the border.  That’s what we want to
see.  And that’s what the Senate is working towards. 

Go ahead, Michael.

Q    Back in the winter of 2018 and the spring of 2019, President Trump
vowed to shut down the border with Mexico, using almost the identical
language that the President used on Friday.  Many — many, if not most —
if not practically all Democrats called that “xenophobic” and even
“racist.”  Why shouldn’t people make the same conclusion about this
President’s threat to shut down the entire border with Mexico?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, we believe the new enforcement tools that
currently don’t exist, that will be — we believe that will be part of
this bipartisan agreement — will be fair.  We believe it’ll be — yes,
it’ll be tough, but it will be fair.

Q    But he didn’t say he wanted to use — excuse me.  Sorry to
interrupt.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, no, no —

Q    He didn’t —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, no —

Q    He didn’t say, “I would — on day one, I will use enhanced
enforcement to improve the processing of people at the border.”  He
said, “I will shut the border down,” which — which suggests a total
rejection of all people attempting to cross the border without — without
a visa or without — without proper authorization, which, you know,
stands in contravention to decades of international and U.S. law that —
that governs the — the movement of people around the globe and the —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — and the refugees and asylum si- — system.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, no, I under- —

Q    So, why isn’t that the same thing that Trump did?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I understand your question.  What I’m saying to
you: The new enforcement tools — right? — that we believe — that do not
currently exist, that will be part of this bipartisan agreement —
there’s going — there are different — there are different definitions —
right? — of what that looks like, of what actually shutting down the
border looks like.  Right? 

So, we’re going to let them work through it.  We don’t know what that
looks like exactly, right? 

What we are asking for, what the President wants to see is that we deal
with the challenges at the border — right? — that we have an opportunity
to deal with what’s going on, the security, and make sure that we have
the funding and the resources to deal with what we’re seeing at the
border. 

There are going to be different — there are different definitions to
what that looks like.  And so, we’ll see what — the text comes out of
the Senate.  And so, we will — we will make — we will certainly have a —
I guess — a broader conversation once that happens.  But we believe it’s
going to be fair.  It’ll be tough.  It’ll be fair.  They’ll have the
resources available to deal with what’s going on at the border.  And
also, there will be some policy changes as well. 

But to say that — to define what that looks like right now, it’s getting
ahead of the process.  And we need to let Republicans as well as
Democrats — there are Democrats up there, obviously, talking to
Republicans.  They are both having those conversations on what it will
look like — a bipartisan agreement.  And that’s what you need.  In order
to really deal with this issue, you got to do it in a bipartisan way.

Q    And just to — just to follow up.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    You’ve said a couple of times, as you did just now, that we should
wait.  You don’t want to get ahead of the process. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    I think your answer to the previous question was that we don’t know
what’s in it.  Yet the President and the White House have explicitly
said it should pass. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well —

Q    And so, how is it that, on the one hand, the President has —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well —

Q    — said, “Pass this thing and send it to me,” but then when asked
about it —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, look —

Q    — you say, “I don’t want to get ahead of it.  We don’t know what’s
in it.”  How could you —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Because there —

Q    How can you say you want to —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, no, no.  No.  Both —

Q    — pass it, when you don’t know what’s in it?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Here’s the thing: Both things could be true, and I’ll
explain why.

Q    Okay.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  The White House team has been part of — right? — the
negotiations.  Right?  And the President has been getting regular
updates, right?  So, obviously —

Q    Right.  So, you do know what’s in it.  You just don’t want to —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, no, no, no, no —

Q    — tell us what’s in it?  (Laughter.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What I’m saying is, negotiations are still happening. 
They’re literally still happening.  They’re still discussing this.  If I
tell you this is happening today, who knows what could happen the next
day? 

And also, I don’t want to get ahead of the conversations, right?  I
don’t want to get in the middle of negotiations.  And that is true. 

But the White House team has been really talking to and part of this
discussion for the past two months.  So, the President has been getting
updates — has been getting updates, but — but at the same time,
negotiations are still happening.  And that’s just the reality that
we’re in. 

And talking about that from the podium, that will have an effect on
negotiations.  And you know that, Michael.  It would.  It would have an
effect on negotiations.

Q    Right.  Except the President has — didn’t — didn’t exhibit that
kind of caution over the last few days, right?  He —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, for me, from here, I have to exhibit that type
of caution. 

Q    Okay, fair enough.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And the President is the President.  Right?  And he
wants to give confidence to the American people that we’re — that we —
he believes this is going to be — yes, it’s going to be tough, but it’s
also going to be fair, and we have to — in order to deal with this
situation.  And it’ll be a historic — if it gets done, this will be a
historic deal.

But, you know, we have to get this done in a bipartisan way.  We truly
do.

Go ahead, M.J.

Q    Karine, the families of some of the American hostages are back in
Washington this week.  Is the President willing to meet with them again?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have anything to read out.  As — as you know,
Jake Sullivan, the President himself, Secretary Blinken have met with
the family of the hostages in the past.  Just don’t have anything to
read out on — on his schedule at this time.

Q    And just separately, we reported last week that the President had
met with some of the ceasefire advocates backstage at the UAW
conference.  I wondered whether this is a kind of conversation that the
President is willing to have more of these kinds of conversations going
forward, given the immense pressure that he’s facing from advocates
calling for a ceasefire, calling on him to support a ceasefire?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  So, you know, it’s hard to say if he’s going to
have regular conversations.  Look, the President — it’s not the first
time that the President has had conversations with protesters from
whatever side of — certainly of the issue that they’re on. 

The President — he says this all the time — he’s the President for all
Americans.  That’s something that he believes.  And he’s always willing
to hear people out.  And he believes — and we’ve said this before — when
it comes to protesters, people — Americans have the right to — for their
voices to be heard, just as long as they do it peacefully.

And so, hearing that, you know, what — the President speaking to
protesters, that’s who he is.  He’s going to — he’s going to listen to
Americans and hear what they have to say just as long as they do it
peacefully.  I just don’t have anything else to read out.

Q    Do you — do you have anything you could share, just from his end,
how he spoke to these ceasefire advocates in that meeting?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t — I don’t have anything to read out.

Go ahead, Jeff.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Is the White House tracking the latest
developments with Evergrande, the Chinese real estate company that Hong
Kong is now ordering it to be unraveled, and the implications that that
will have on the Chinese economy and potentially the global economy?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I’ve seen those reports.  I just don’t have
anything to share on the President — where the President is on being
briefed about that.

Q    If his econ team is watching it and has a —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Laughs.)

Q    — view on it, we’d love to hear it.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We will — we will make sure we get back — back to you
on that.

Go ahead, Ed.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  So, the Department of Energy has finalized a rule
for energy savings standards on appliances like refrigerators; washing
machines; wine, beverage chillers; freezers; clothes dryers;
dishwashers; electric, gas, and stovetops.  So, is our kitchen one of
the root causes that’s killing the environment?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, this — let me just start from the top here because
I do have a couple of things to say.  As you just stated, the Department
of Energy today — they finalized a congressionally mandated energy
efficiency standard for residential cooking, as you just laid out the
different products.  And what it will do — it’s going to reduce
household utility costs while improving appliance re- — reliability and
performance, which is really important.

The standards — these standards, which reflect a joint recommendation
from a wide range of stakeholders, including the Association of Home
Appliance Manufacturers and Consumer Federation of America, they are
projected to save Americans approximately $1.6 billion on their utility
bills over 30 years.

And so, this administration is always committed to using every tool at
our disposal to lower costs.  This is certainly an option here, right? 
Something that we’ve taken — an action that we’ve done and is going to
be, obviously, for American families across the country.

Altogether, the energy efficiency standards advanced by this
administration will provide nearly $1 trillion in consumer savings.

Q    But — but do the standards — the effects of the standards outweigh
the cost of the regulations?  Do the companies that have to build these
things with workers and —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — what —

Q    Do the effects to the environment —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Say more.

Q    Do the effects to the environment outweigh the added costs of the
regulations for new manufacturing plants to be built — changing
standards, redesigning equipment, that kind of thing?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, we’re talking about making sure that these —
these products are efficient — right? — making sure that they’re working
in a way that’s not just that — obviously, they’ll still have the
performance that they need, obviously, protecting the environment. 

But I think one al- — other big benefit, as I just laid out, is making
sure that we’re saving Americans money.  I think that’s important. 
That’s important that we’re — we — we’re able to do that.  1.6 billion
dollars over 30 years, that’s what Americans want to see.  That’s an —

And let’s not forget, this is a congressionally mandated ef- — energy
efficiency.  So, this is something that Congress went through.  This is
something that they evaluated, and that’s how it got put forward to the
Department of Energy.

So, this has had a lot of eyes on it.  Right?  This has had a lot of,
kind of, research to make sure that this was the right thing to do for
the American family, the American people.  And I think that’s what
should matter.

Q    One more, if I might, on Iran, actually.  Could — at what point
does the President, then, cut off the money to Iran by — by stopping or
reducing their benefit from oil sales?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I just don’t have anything to share on that particular
thing.  I — as I — as the President said himself yesterday, after he
acknowledged the three souls that were taken from us, our service
members — brave — who bravely — who are — who bravely protect our
national security, and obvious- — obviously, us as a country — you know,
he said that we shall respond. 

So, I’m just going to not get ahead of that.

AIDE:  Karine, I think you have a couple minutes.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay. 

Go ahead, Brian.  I haven’t called on you. 

Q    Thanks a lot, Karine.  On the border.  When the President said that
he would shut down the border, does that mean that the President would
temporarily sign off on shutting down border crossings at ports of
entry?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m not going to get into specifics and details.  The
President is very clear: He wants to make sure that we deal with the
border — border security, that we deal with the challenges at the
border.  And he has said if these new — these new authorities — right? —
these new enforcement — enforcement authorities were — were put — were
made into law, obviously, he would use it.

They’re working through the text.  Right?  The Senate is working through
the text on what that looks like, how that is defined.  So, I’m not
going to get into specifics from here.

Q    Well, can you give us a little bit more about what the President
meant when he said he would shut down the border?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, he — I just — I mean, it’s very clear.

Q    Does he mean he’d stop people —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well —

Q    — from being able to cross back and forth for jobs–

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What he wants to do is —

Q    — for employment, for trade?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I hear you.  What he wants to do is make sure that
we deal with the challenges at the border.  That is what he wants to
make sure that we do.  He wants the — the new authorities, the new
enforcement tools that is being discussed — that he believes, if it’s
put into law, will help him deal with the issues at the border. 

And not just that.  We’re talking about immigration policy, actually
doing meaningful changes to immigration policy so that we can deal with
a broken system — a broken immigration system that has been broken for
some decades now. 

And so, we’ll have some — I’m sure once they come and havw a bipartisan
agreement, the text will be — will be released, and then we’ll have more
to share there. 

I think I have to go. 

Q    So we should take him at his word is what you’re saying, right? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I’ll say this.

Q    “Shut down the border” means “shut down the border”?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’ll say this.  I’ll say this.  I’ll say this.  The
first day of his administration, the President took this issue very
seriously.  He put forth a comprehensive piece of legislation to deal
with what’s happening with the —

Q    We’ve heard all that.  We want to talk about the news.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Let me — wait, let me — you — you don’t get to decide
—

Q    (Inaudible.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You don’t get to decide what I say and what I don’t
say.  Either you — either you hear me out, or we can — you know, I’ll
see you on Wednesday.  Totally up to you.  Totally up to you. 

Q    I just want to know if he means —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right. 

Q    — what he says.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay. 

Q    I guess not.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I was — he means what he says.  Not going to go into
his — to details here. 

Here’s — here’s the reality: The immigration system is broken.  It’s
been broken for decades, even in the last administration.  The President
introduced this piece of legislation three years ago.  House Republicans
got in the way.  They refused to do anything about it. 

Now he’s in a — he’s in this position to have a — potentially a
bipartisan agreement that the Senate has been working on with
Republicans and Democrats on a real — on a real solution to move
forward.  Seventy-five percent of the American people, majority of the
American people want us to work on this issue. 

And they’ve been very clear.  The 2022 midterm elections, what did they
say?  They want to see Congress doing — doing things in a bipartisan way
to really address the issues that matter to them — that matter to them.

Here’s this President actually working with Republicans and Democrats to
deal with this issue — to deal with this issue.  That’s important.  And
I think that’s what the American people care about. 

I’ll see you guys on Wednesday.  Thank you so much. 

2:44 P.M. EST
