---
date: '2024-01-23'
published_time: 2024-01-23 18:01:04-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/01/23/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-nsc-coordinator-for-strategic-communications-john-kirby-41/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and NSC Coordinator for\
  \ Strategic Communications John\_Kirby"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

12:20 P.M. EST  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Good afternoon, everyone.   
  
Q    Good afternoon.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  One thing at the top.  Oh, guys —  
  
Q    Is there an echo?  
  
Q    The voice of God.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Referring to the briefing room audio system.)  Does
it sound like the voice of God?  I don’t know.  I don’t think people
would say that.  
  
Okay.  We’ll try this again.  Good afternoon, everybody.  
  
Q    Good afternoon.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Today we learned that last year, 19 states achieved
their lowest average unemployment rate on record, 23
states <s>sent</s> \[set\] new record-low unemployment rate last year,
and 32 states had an unemployment rate below 4 percent for the entire
year.  
  
We created a total of 2.7 million jobs last year for a historic 13 — 14-
— 14.3 million jobs created under President Biden, all while wages are
rising and inflation is falling.  
  
And we’ve continued lowering costs for families — from healthcare and
prescription drugs to utility bills.  
  
This is the heart of President Biden’s strategy to grow the economy from
the middle out and the bottom up.  Now we’re seeing consumer sentiment
rise as more Americans feel the results of President Biden’s economic
plan.   
  
And with that — I said I was going to be real short; I am — Admiral John
Kirby is here to give an update on the Middle East.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Thanks, Karine.  I will also be short.  
  
I think, as you — all of you saw, yesterday, the militaries of the
United States and the United Kingdom, with support from Australia,
Bahrain, Canada, and the Netherlands, all conducted an additional round
of strikes against Houthi targets in Yemen.  
  
These self-defense strikes targeted missile systems and launchers,
unmanned aerial and surface vessels, storage facilities, fighter
aircraft, helicopters, and attack boats — all with the goal of further
degrading Houthi — the Houthis’ ability to conduct further attacks on
ships in the Red Sea.  
  
Initial reports from the Pentagon indicate that all the targets were hit
and that they will help further degrade Houthi offensive capabilities. 
That said, the Pentagon is still conducting a battle damage assessment,
so I’d refer you to them for any additional detail.  
  
I just want to remind that the United States is acting in — in part —
I’m sorry — is acting as part of a coalition of countries committed to
the defense of our ships and our sailors, to upholding the freedom of
navigation in a major international waterway, and, of course, to holding
the Houthis accountable.  
  
And as the President has made clear, we will not hesitate to take
further action as appropriate.  
  
With that.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Go ahead, Zeke.   
  
Q    Thanks, John.  On the strikes yesterday, can you walk us through a
little bit of the — when the President approved those strikes?  Was that
— was there a new convening of his national security team for that — for
that operation?  Or was that sort of the — greenlit a couple of weeks
ago when the fir- — when these strikes started?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  No, these — this — these additional strikes yesterday
required additional conversations and discussions across the national
security team, and the President made the decision to authorize the —
this particular round of strikes very recently.  
  
Q    And would — that national security team, would that include
Secretary Austin?  When was the last time the President spoke with the
Secretary?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  It would — those discussions did include Secretary Austin. 
I — I don’t have the exact time on the calendar of when the — those
discussions happened, but he was involved and engaged in all those
discussions.  Yeah.  
  
Q    And then on a different topic.  There’s a report that the Israelis
have presented a new cease- — a ceasefire — a temporary ceasefire for a
hostage deal for — a two-month pause to release all the hostages and the
bodies of — of their — of civilians and soldiers.  Can you confirm
that?  Is the U.S. engaged in it?  Is Brett — as Brett is in the region
right now, is he trying to actively, sort of, dru- — drum up support for
that framework of an — of a deal?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Yeah, I’m not able to confirm those specific reports that
you’re al- — that you’re talking about in the press.  Brett is in the
region.  He was in Cairo today, as a matter of fact, and he’ll have
other stops along the way.   
  
Certainly one of the things he’s in the region talking about is the
potential for another hostage deal, which would require a humanitarian
pause of some length to get that done.  And that’s definitely on the
agenda.   
  
He’ll also be talking about a range of other issues, including
humanitarian assistance, including getting assessment of Israeli Defense
Force operations and the protection of civilian life.  I mean, there’s a
lot on his agenda.   
  
But I can’t confirm these reports that those are the parameters of a
deal that’s being discussed.   
  
The last thing I’ll leave you with is that the — as I’ve said before,
the discussions are sober and serious.  Again, I don’t want to get ahead
of where we are or give you — I can’t give you odds on — on if and when
we’ll be able to get there.  But the conversations are very sober and
serious about trying to get another hostage deal in place.  
  
Q    Could you characterize — sorry, just — the — where the — the holdup
is — and this seems to be a — a far more, you know, significant offer on
the part of the Israelis.  I mean, we’ve seen from them —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — through their public messaging.  Is — is Hamas the real holdup
here?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I — I don’t know that, you know, it’s time now to be talking
about holdups.  I mean, these are — these are ongoing discussions.  I
wouldn’t even class- — classify them as “negotiations” quite at this
point but “ongoing discussions with counterparts” about what’s in the —
what’s in the realm of the possible here to get these hostages out and
how long would that last, the pause itself, and what would that mean for
humanitarian aid.  There’s a lot of components here.   
  
And so, I wouldn’t describe it as us running up against some kind of
obstacle here or a — or a stop or a hard spot.  We’re — we’re just
having these active conversations, and hopefully they will bear fruit.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Kelly O.  
  
Q    Do you think that a pause of a really extended nature, whether it’s
two months or it’s weeks — very different than what we saw in the
earlier release of hostages — would that not only serve to — to be a
pathway for hostages to come out but also to change the overall nature
of the fight and transition to a different character of or intensity of
the conflict?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  You know, Kelly, it — it’s possible, but I — I really think
we’ve got to be careful about getting ahead of where we are in the — in
the process.  The focus would rightly be on getting the hostages out —
more than 100 that we know Hamas or their affiliates are still holding —
and, of course, increasing the humanitarian assistance.   
  
Could — you know, again, it would depend on how long, right?  And so, I
think it’s possible that it could have some larger implications for the
conflict itself, but it’s just too soon to know right now.  
  
Q    And do you think that the substantial loss of life among the IDF —
the 24 — is that a component of changing how Israel may view where we
are in the war now — to have a — you know, a catastrophic incident like
that?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Only the Israelis could answer that question.  It was a
terr- — terrible day for the IDF yesterday.  That’s an enormous amount
of troops lost in one day.  And certainly, our condolences go out to all
the families and their teammates as well.   
  
But as for what impact yesterday’s actions might have on this, I — I
think that’s something we would refer to them to speak to.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Jeff.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  John, you’ve said multiple times that the U.S.
doesn’t support a general ceasefire right now.  But would the White
House support a 30-day, a 60-day, or a 90-day ceasefire, if that’s
something that Israel was open to for a hostage deal?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Sure, absolutely.  If that would require — if that would
give us the opportunity to get hostages out and get more aid in, we
would absolutely support a humanitarian pause of — of a longer length
than the week that we were able to accomplish.  Absolutely, we would.  
  
Q    And do you think that’s realistic, that a 90-day pause, for
example, might be agreed?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Again, I don’t want to get ahead of where we are in the
discussions, Jeff.  So, I can’t confirm the reports out there about what
the length might be.  But we are in serious discussions about trying to
get another pause in place.  
  
Q    And just lastly, on Brett’s trip.  Can you give us a sense of who
else he plans to meet with and what his message is during this visit?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  He’s working on a range of issues, so his messages are
really in line with our policy, which is making sure Israel knows that
it has the support that it — that it needs, making sure we’re getting
humanitarian assistance increased to the degree we can, getting the
hostages out, and obviously working — helping to work towards an
arrangement where a pause can be in place to allow all those things to
occur.  
  
He’ll also, no question, have other discussions about other regional
issues, including continuing to explore the idea of — of normalization
between Israel and Saudi Arabia.  I don’t have a readout of all his
discussions that he’s had.  He’s only just gotten in the region, I
think, yesterday.  So, we’ll see if we can get you a little bit more
granularity on — on where he’s going next and who he’s going to be
talking to.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  There were Russian strikes on residential
neighborhoods in Kyiv and Kharkiv.  What does this say about Russia’s
strategy right now?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  It’s very much, I think, of a piece of what the Russians
have been trying to do since the winter months have set in, which is to
make — to — to further victimize the Ukrainian population, to try to
break their will and their — and their back.  And the attacks on
civilian infrastructure, residential homes and — and areas is, again,
not something that Putin has shied away from in the past.  
  
We don’t see a lot of movement on the battlefront from east to south. 
There’s — there’s — neither side is really making a lot of progress, and
we’re not seeing any major push by the Russians to some sort of ground
offensive.  And I’m not ruling out that they might not try to pursue
that when the ground gets a little harder.  
  
But that — but what they are doing are trying to overwhelm Ukrainian air
defense systems.  And those air defense systems have been pretty
effective at knocking a lot of this stuff out of the sky.  Things get
through, obviously.  They don’t get — they don’t hit every- —
everything.   
  
But that’s why it’s so critical that we get this supplemental funding,
because, as I said earlier, the Ukrainians are making some tough
decisions on the battlefield about what they’re going to shoot and what
they’re going to save for another day.  And — and the — and the Russians
know that.  
  
So, part of this is trying to break the back of the Ukrainian people but
also trying to — to force the Ukrainians to continue to use munitions in
defense of themselves.  
  
Q    Is the U.S. seeing evidence that Russia is increasingly targeting
Ukrainian arms production sites?  And, if so, what does that mean?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Yeah, actually, I’m glad you asked that question.  They
have, in fact — we have seen them start to go after more of Ukraine’s
defense industrial base.  Again, all of a piece of wearing down the
Ukrainians’ ability to defend themselves over time, which, again, it
just makes — it just underscores how important it is that we get this
supplemental funding for — for Ukraine.  
  
Secretary Austin, I think, as you know, hosted yet another contact group
today.  We’ve got 50-some-odd nations involved in here trying to
contribute stuff to Ukraine, and they’re all looking to us for
leadership.  They all want to know where we’re going be here, you know,
in a couple months.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Nancy.  
  
Q    Thanks, John.  Is — are the U.S. strikes on the Houthis aimed
simply at degrading their capabilities or also at interrupting the rate
of resupply of materiel from Iran?  And — and what has the U.S. observed
about those resupply efforts?  Are they slowing down?  Are they speeding
up?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Two different efforts here.  We already have in place and
have been doing interdiction to try to stop the flow of munitions from
Iran to Houthi-controlled Yemen.  And, matter of fact, that’s how we
lost — tragically lost those two Navy SEALs.  They were involved in an
interdiction mission of that sort.  
  
The strikes that were taken are something separate and distinct.  And it
really is designed about — to disrupt and des- — and degrade Houthi
offensive capabilities, to — to make it harder for them to — to continue
these attacks.  
  
Q    But are you seeing any efforts by the Iranians to — to pick up the
pace of supplying the Houthis as they come under attack by the U.S.?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I would just say we’re watching this very, very closely.  I
mean, it’s not — Iranian support of the Houthis is nothing new.  They
have — they have not only supplied things to — to them but to Hamas and
Hezbollah and other groups in — in the region.  And I would just say
we’re monitoring that flow as closely as we can.   
I think that’s as far as I’m going to be able to go today.  
  
Q    And then can you give us an update on the effort to prevent a war
with Hezbollah and Amos Hochstein’s efforts in the region?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  We are involved diplomatically, not just with the — the
Israelis but with officials in Lebanon to — to see what we can do to
keep that — the conflict from widening and escalating there along that
northern border with I- — Israel.  
  
We still don’t believe that it’s in the interest of the Israeli people,
certainly not in the interest of regional security, for another front to
be opened up. 

We have not seen — and I think this is important, and I’ll let Amos
speak to his discussions; he has been a significant interlocutor in — in
having these discussions — but we have not seen Hezbollah jump in with
both feet and come to the aid of Hamas.  There have been — I’m not going
to, obviously, dismiss it.  There has been rocket fire exchanged on both
sides.  We want to see those tensions de-escalate.  But we have not seen
Nasrallah give the orders that, you know, they’re going to go all in to
help Hamas.  
  
As a matter of fact, I mean, take a look at it — and I know we’re all
talking about the Houthis, and I get all that.  But — but there ain’t a
whole lot of people that are jumping in with two feet to help Hamas in
this war that they started on the 7th of October.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Justin.  
  
Q    Thanks.  John, I have one on the Middle East.  But first I wanted
to follow up.  Zeke asked about Secretary Austin.  He had his first
public appearance today from a very secure printer closet — (laughs) —
over at the Pentagon.  I’m wondering if you have a sense of when he —
when we might see him in person, if that’s been a conversation between
the White House and the Pentagon about, kind of, getting him out and —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Getting him out?  
  
Q    Yeah.  (Laughter.)  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I think, as I understand it, and you should check with my
Defense Department colleagues, but I think he hosted that contact group
from home, from — over Zoom.  And we — he’s done these virtually
before.  Getting 50 nations all together in the same place sometimes can
be difficult.  So, this one was another virtual one, and I understand
that he took it from home.

I — I don’t have anything on — I certainly wouldn’t be in a position to
speak to his schedule and when you might see him out more publicly.  But
I know that they’re working through — at the Defense Department —
working through what his schedule will look like once he’s able to get
back to work in the Pentagon and then, you know, how they build out his
calendar.  But that’s really for them to speak to. 

Q    And then, on the Middle East, you mentioned yesterday that we were
engaging the Saudis and regional partners still on that normalization
effort.  But I wanted to ask about the G20.  There was the announcement
about the India to Europe, sort of, rail and waterway trade pipeline —

MR. KIRBY:  The economic corridor. 

Q    Yeah. 

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah.

Q    Has — has the conflict in Israel, sort of, put that either on the
backburner or effectively killed that effort?  Or is that something
that’s still an active part of talks?

MR. KIRBY:  The short answer is no.  But, look, this — that — that is a
major rail corridor that, actually, we’re calling an economic corridor. 
Because while it’s principally around a rail system, there would be all
kinds of logistics and sustainment hubs along the way and offer all
kinds of opportunities for infrastructure improvement and employment
opportunities.   
  
And it’s — that’s — you know, that’s a years-long process.  It’s going
to take a long time to get there.  The President knows that.   
  
And so, our — our work and our efforts to start laying the groundwork,
literally, if you’ll excuse the pun, but laying the tracks for that are
ongoing.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  In the back.

Q    *Merci*, Karine.  John, I just want to go back on the strikes on
the — on the Houthis.  You listed a number of countries — allies
involved in this — UK, Canada.  How is this coordinated?

And, by the way, has the mission — does the mission have a name?  Is it
— is it just, like, “We’re Striking the Houthis Operation”?  And how
does the coordination happen?  Is the President involved?  Has he talked
to Prime Minister Trudeau, for instance? 

MR. KIRBY:  So, couple of — there’s a lot off — there.  Not every nation
is involved in the actual dropping of munitions.  In this case, it was
the United States and the United Kingdom.  Other nations, as I indicated
in my opening statement, they contribute other capabilities.  I’ll let
them speak to what — what they’re doing to support these strikes on — on
Houthi capabilities ashore. 

There is an awful lot of coordination done at various levels.  I mean,
the President spoke yesterday with Prime Minister Sunak.  And,
obviously, this was on the — on the plate to talk about it, given that
that conversation took place in advance — a few hours in advance of the
strikes that we actually took. 

And we always read out his calls with foreign counterparts.  So, I’ll —
you know, it’s not like he would have a conversation with another prime
minister and you wouldn’t know about it.  But he is involved at his
level, of course, but so is Secretary of Defense; so is Secretary of
State; so is Jake Sullivan, our National Security Advisor.  And then
staff levels at the NSC up and down the chain of command are involved,
clearly, with our — our counterparts. 

Q    So, this mission is just “We’re striking the Houthis.”

MR. KIRBY:  You’re asking for the name?

Q    Well, is it an operation organized and well-thought?

MR. KIRBY:  I would — I’d refer you to the Pentagon if they’ve — if
they’ve given it an operational name or not.  That’s really for them to
— to speak to. 

We’re not so much worried about what bumper sticker you slap on it. 
We’re interested in making sure we’re going after Houthi capabilities
and trying to degrade their ability to continue to conduct these
attacks.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Anita.

Q    Thank you so much, John.  I’m right here. 

MR. KIRBY:  Oh, sorry.

Q    Just a quick question about whether the administration includes
environmental impact assessments in calculating how to support allies
like Israel and Ukraine. 

Just for reference, we interviewed some environmental experts who
estimated that, in the last 60 days, U.S. supply flights to Israel
contributed to 133,000 metric tons of CO<sub>2</sub> emissions.  That’s
a lot.  Right? 

So, is that part of the calculation that you make?  And how do you
balance your desire to protect the environment with your desire to
protect your allies?

MR. KIRBY:  I know of no — and I’m happy to take this question.  I know
of no mathematical analysis that we’re conducting at an agency level to
— to judge the impact of using jet fuel, for instance, to — to fly
support to Ukraine or — or get it into the region for Israel. 

Again, I’ll take that question.  But we’re focused, rightly so, on
making sure that our two partners have what they need to defend
themselves.  And that’s really where the President’s head is.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Arlette.

Q    Thank you.  One of my colleagues has reported that Israel has
prono- — proposed that a — Hamas senior leadership could leave Gaza as
part of a broader ceasefire agreement.  Is this something that the U.S.
believes is a viable proposal?

MR. KIRBY:  We don’t want to see Hamas in charge of Gaza anymore.  They
chose to violate the ceasefire that was in place, and we, certainly,
agree with our Israeli counterparts that whatever the future of
post-conflict Gaza looks like, it can’t include Hamas leaders. 

Now, how that’s actualized, I think, I’d refer to the Israeli Defense
Forces to — to speak to.  And I’m not — I understand where the question
is going.  I’m just not going to get ahead of discussions that we’re
having in the region about post-conflict Gaza and what that — what that
can look like and what a hostage deal — what the parameters of that
would look like. 

The last thing I’ll say on this is we have been very consistent that
whatever governance looks like in Gaza after this is over, it’s got to
be representative of the aspirations of the Palestinian people who are
not represented by Hamas and who do not — the majority — don’t support
what Hamas has put them through in — in visiting this kind of violence
inside the Strip. 

So, whatever — whatever it looks like, it’s got to be representative of
their aspirations.  And we believe that a good place to start to get to
that outcome is a revitalized Palestinian Authority. 

Q    And Senate Republican Whip John Thune told reporters today that he
thinks that the Ukraine aid the President proposed may need to be scaled
back a bit, specifically when it comes to non-lethal assistance.  Is
this something that the White House would be open to, scaling back —

MR. KIRBY:  I won’t —

Q    — any portions of it?

MR. KIRBY:  I won’t negotiate in public here.  The President’s
supplemental request that we put forward way back in October was
thoughtful, it was carefully done and crafted, it was done in
consultation with our Ukrainian partners about what they believe they
were going to need in the early months of this year.  And it came up to,
I think, more than $60 million, or something like that. 

So — I’m sorry.  Sixty billion.

And we believe that that was an adequate request.  And that’s the
request that we want considered.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Peter.

Q    Thank you, John.  Why are you guys making it easier for people to
enter the country illegally?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I don’t believe we are.  Why do you think we are?  
  
Q    Well, you guys sued to cut razor wire that was put in place by
Texas officials and —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  So that the Border Patrol could actually do their jobs.   
  
But keep going.   
  
Q    Well, you won in court.  So, now what?  The Border Patrol union
president is saying the Supreme Court’s decision is going to
“undoubtedly encourage more illegal immigration.”  Do you guys know
better than the Border Patrol union?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  The Border Patrol needed access.  And that’s why we sued to
get rid of that razor wire so that they could do their jobs.   
  
And you know what else will help them do their jobs, Peter?  More Border
Patrol agents.  There’s an idea.  And if you go back to the supplemental
request that we put in, there’s money in there for some 1,300 additional
Border Patrol agents.   
  
We want to help them do their jobs.  We want to give them more
resources.  And the answer we kept — keep getting back from House
Republicans is no, no, no.  
  
Q    Does razor wire work?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Does razor wire work for what?  Does it work for the Border
Patrol to allow them to have the access they need to be able to better
process people that are trying to get across the border?  I don’t think
so.  And that’s why we asked for it to be removed.  
  
Q    But what is the President’s plan?  This is happening just weeks
after 300,000 people came into this country over the southern border
illegally.  The razor wire, officials down there think, was keeping some
of them out.  And you guys just sued and won to remove it.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  On behalf of the Border Patrol, who needed — who needed to
have better access to it.   
  
Look, let me go back to your other question.  And I — and I know I’m
running short on time, so I won’t — I won’t filibuster here.   
  
But “what’s the plan?”  Please look at the stuff we’ve put forward: the
immigration reform legislation that the President put forward on day
one, the work we’re doing in the region.  Just last week, we had Mexican
officials here to talk about how together we have and will continue to
try to stem the flow of migrants.   
  
You mentioned the numbers.  No question there’s a lot of people trying
to make that journey.  But it’s not just to the United States, it’s to
other countries in the world — in the region.  We’re seeing historic
movement.  Not since World War Two have we seen this many people on the
move in this hemisphere.  And the Mexicans are really stepping up and
trying to do the more — more on their southern border to keep that flow
going north lower.  And we have seen, in recent weeks, some success at
that.  
  
The idea that we don’t have a plan or a strategy or we’re not taking
this seriously, it’s just not borne out by the facts.   
  
And, you know, again, if the — if the folks on the House Republican side
are serious about border security — and they claim they are — then they
should act on the supplemental request.  And, you know, let’s negotiate
this in good faith.   
  
The President has said he’s willing to make compromises.  He’s willing
to negotiate in good faith.  So — so, let’s — let’s have that
discussion.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Sabrina.  
  
Q    Thank you.  Israel has said that it is going to build a buffer
zone.  It appears to already be demolishing structures inside Gaza along
its borders, despite the U.S. position that Gaza’s territory should not
be reduced.  Does the administration object to this plan?  And if the
Israelis are moving forward anyway, then what is the administration
doing about it?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I’ll let the Israelis speak to this idea.  Nothing has
changed about our view, Sabrina.  We do not want to see the territory of
Gaza reduced in any way.  We won’t support that.  
  
Q    And you — the administration has communicated that directly to the
Israelis, that they shouldn’t create these buffer zones?  
  
MR. KIRBY: I won’t talk about our diplomatic conversations.   
  
We have been very clear and consistent, both in private and publicly,
that we do not want to see the territory of Gaza reduced in any way.  
  
Q    To the back?  
  
Q    Thank you.  John, could you please confirm — could you — could you
please confirm if Russia has used more North Korean missiles in Ukraine
—  
  
MR. KIRBY:  They have.  
  
Q    — after your —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  They have, yes.  
  
Q    — two weeks ago announced aid.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  They have.  
  
Q    What’s your response to President Putin’s visit, in the near
future, to North Korea?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Well, what we’re — what’s concerning to us is this
increasing relationship, this deepening relationship between North Korea
and Russia.  Because, obviously, Mr. Putin stands to benefit from it, as
he not only gets ballistic missiles and using them for use in Ukraine,
but also artillery shells.  And he’s using them to a fare-thee-well, as
well.   
  
So, we’re watching this very, very closely, as we are North Korea’s own
pursuit of advanced military capabilities.  And what concerns us is not
just Mr. Putin’s ability to benefit from this relationship, but Kim Jong
Un’s ability to benefit from this relationship and what that means for
peace and security in the region.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Danny.  
  
Q    Thanks.  Staying on North Korea.  There’s been a number of reports
recently about — that there have been signs that Kim Jong Un is
preparing for some kind of attack or even preparing for war.  Have you
seen any indication of a change in posture from North Korea?  Is there
any concerns that you have about — about that?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I want to be careful here.  I don’t get into intelligence
assessments.  But we’re watching this very, very closely.  And I would
just tell you that we remain confident that the defensive posture that
we’re maintaining on the Peninsula is appropriate to the risk.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Ed.  
  
Q    On the Houthis.  Back to the Houthis.  So, Treasury issued a
general license allowing the Houthis to profit from oil sales.  Why
designate or redesignate them a special terrorist group if you’re going
to allow them to make profits off of oil sales within the country?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  It doesn’t.  You’re talking about General License Number 25
—  
  
Q    Yeah.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  — which is designed to allow for the import of some
petroleum products, such as cooking oil, so that the Yemeni people
aren’t suffering and they can — and they can eat.  It does not allow —
and I’m happy to get you the exact language, Ed — but it does not allow
for the transfer or the export for profit of Yemeni petroleum products. 
They are not going to be allowed to profit off of this.  
  
Q    There are five licenses in general — or in total.  One of them also
allows them to get payments for goods going through the ports, as well
as fees from people leaving airports.  Again, same question, allowing
them  —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Again, you —  
  
Q    — revenue to do their operations.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Again, I’m happy to refer you to Treasury for more detail. 
My understanding of that license as well is it will not allow them to
profit.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.   
  
Q    A senior administration official told Politico that one aspect of
your plan to stop the Houthis is to have China pressure them to stop. 
Does the administration have any indication that China has sway with the
Houthis and any interest in applying such pressure?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  China has influence over Tehran; they have influence in
Iran.  And they have the ability to have conversations with Iranian
leaders that — that we can’t.  And so, what we’ve said repeatedly is: We
would welcome a constructive role by China, using the influence and the
access that we know they have, to try to help stem the flow of weapons
and munitions to the Houthis.  
  
MR. JEAN-PIERRE:  Let’s wrap it up.   
  
Go ahead.  Go ahead, Courtney.  
  
Q    Thank you.  You mentioned earlier the meeting with Mexican
officials that was last week to talk about migration.  Can you talk
through what some of the next steps are after that meeting and whether
U.S. officials are going to meet with them again in the coming weeks?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I don’t have another meeting on the schedule right now to
speak to or to announce.  I have every expectation that there will be
additional conversations at various levels of the staff.  We’re focused
on root causes of this migration and helping try to, with our Mexican
counterparts, alleviate some of those root causes.  There’s lots of
reasons why people are on the move, depending on where they’re coming
from.  
  
We’re also working closely, as I mentioned to Peter, with Mexican
officials about what they might need to help as they deal with pressure
at their southern border.  And they have taken some action.  They’ve put
more soldiers down there.  They are doing more work at railheads and —
you know, and bus routes to try to stem the flow.   
  
And so, we’re going to keep having those kinds of conversations with
them.  
  
Q    When you say “what they might need,” are you talking about support
from the U.S. to stem the flow at their southern border?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Support from — from the U.S., support from in the region.  I
mean, again, we’re trying to take a true regional approach on this.  
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, sir.  Go ahead, in the back.  Go ahead.   
  
Q    Me?  
  
Q    Thank you.  So, as Turkish parliament is appearing to move on — on
Sweden’s NATO accession, Hungary’s Prime Minister is suggesting that
it’s still up for negotiations.  He invited the — his Swedish — Swedish
counterpart for negotiation on NATO’s accession.  Do you see this as,
you know, still up for negotiation?  
  
And relatedly, the Polish Prime Minister suggested that Hungary is
quietly wak- — working with Russia and betraying Europe.  Is that your
assessment as well?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  First of all, we understand that the Turkish parliament may
be taking up this decision today.  Obviously, we’ll watch this very
closely.   
  
As the President has said, Sweden is more than ready to become a NATO
Ally, and we certainly look forward to their accession into the
Alliance.   
  
But I’m not going to get ahead of the Turkish parliament.  Obviously,
these are discussions and a vote that they have to hold.  
  
I can’t speak for what the Hungarian government is doing or about to
do.  They have indicated in the past that they certainly won’t be the
holdup here, that they won’t be the last to accede.  They’re also, I’m
sure, watching what’s going on in Turkey very closely as well.  
  
But, look, it’s time for Sweden to become a NATO Ally.  They have a
modern and advanced military, one that we’re very comfortable with.  And
they’ll add real significant military capabilities to the Alliance.  
  
MR. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Andrew, last question.  
  
Q    Thank you.  John, two questions on two unrelated subjects.  The
first: A federal court in California this week is scheduled to hear
arguments in a lawsuit from civil and human rights advocates that is
seeking a court order to prevent the U.S. from providing any more aid to
Israel.  Aside from what the Justice Department has argued in court
papers, does the White House have any reaction to the lawsuit?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  We won’t speak to an individual lawsuit.  That wouldn’t be
prudent.  I will just tell you that nothing has changed about the
President’s strong view that we’ve got to continue to make sure Israel
has what it needs to defend itself.  
  
Q    And then, the second question.  If the state government of Texas,
specifically the governor, is using National Guard personnel to impede
the law enforcement efforts of federal authorities, why is the President
hesitant to simply federalize the Texas Guard and order them to cease
and desist rather than going to the courts and having to wait for the
court process to play itself out?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I don’t have any pending decision by the — by the President
as Commander-in-Chief to federalize the Texas National Guard.  I mean,
obviously, as Commander-in-Chief, he has that option.  But I’m not going
to get ahead of any decision space that the President might be in.  
  
Q    Does the administration believe that it’s a proper function of the
Guard, under — under state authority, to be used to frustrate federal
authority?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  They have — they have a chain of command under the governor,
and we respect that chain of command.  We can disagree on the use of the
National Guard and other — even state assets for the way that Governor
Abbott is treating that border.  We certainly disagree from a policy
perspective.   
  
But, legally, he is, by — you know, by authority, the state
commander-in-chief of the National Guard.  It doesn’t mean we have to
agree with every which way they’re used.  And I won’t get ahead of the
President’s decision space, again, one way or the other.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thanks, Admiral.   
  
MR. KIRBY:  Thank you.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thank you so much.  Thanks, Admiral.  
  
All right.  Zeke, want to reset us?  
  
Q    Yes, thanks, Karine.  Has the President been briefed on that
shooting in Joliet, Illinois, and the subsequent manhunt there?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  So, thank you for that question.  So, we are
tracking certainly the connect- — the connected fatal shootings that
took place in Joliet, Illinois, just outside of Chicago.  Our thoughts
are with the families of the victims of this senseless act of
violence.  
  
Federal officials are supporting the local law enforcement
investigation, and we will know more as they complete their work.   
  
As law enforcement has stated, the shooter appears to have died of
self-inflicted gunshot wounds.  This recently — this recent tragedy
underscores the need for Congress to act and to take action to end this
epidemic of gun violence that we’re seeing across the country.   
  
Our administration is taking aggressive steps to keep guns off our
streets and out of the — out of those who mean to do harm by cracking
down on gun trafficking, stolen firearms, and enhancing background
checks to stop sales to those in crisis, and all thanks to key
provisions of the President’s Bipartisan Safer Communities Act that we
were able to do about almost two years ago now.   
  
But we need Congress to do more: universal background checks, red flag
laws to provide further protections and tools to prevent such
tragedies.  The longer they wait, the more communities like Joliet will
continue to be torn apart by gun violence.   
  
So, we are certainly tracking this.  And so, we’re going to see what the
— what the law enforce- — local law enforcement say about the more
specifics of this horr- — horrific, horrific gun violence.   
  
Q    Thanks.  And on a different topic, it’s election day — primary
election day in New Hampshire.  The President’s name is not on the
ballot, but many of his supporters are trying to write his name in —
onto that ballot there.  Without speaking to —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — 2024 at all, how does the President plan to spend this evening? 
Does he plan to watch those — those results?  How does he plan to
monitor the outcome of the race?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I appreciate the question.  So, look, as you know,
the President is going to be heading out in a couple of hours to head to
Virginia.  He’s going to be doing a dual — obviously, a dual event with
the Vice President.  Can’t go too much further into that, but,
obviously, you all know he’s going to — they’re going to be speaking
about reproductive healthcare, the importance of that.   
  
Yesterday would have been the 51st anniversary of Roe v. Wade before the
Supreme Court overturned Roe.  And — and we have seen the devastating
effects that that overturning of Roe have had across the country with
women obviously not being able to — many of them not being able to make
decisions on their own healthcare.   
  
So, you’ll hear from the Vice President, obviously.  You’ll hear from
the President.  So, that’s what he’s going to be doing later on
today.   
  
I have not spoken to him on how he’s going to be taking in the results
tonight.  So, I don’t have anything — specifics to share on how that’s
going to — how the President is going to be spending his evening, but
certainly he is always — certainly always focused on the American
people.  And that mu- — that much I can promise.  
  
Q    And does he have any concerns that — that he might lose that
write-in campaign?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Laughs.)  I think the President’s concern right now
is making sure we continue to deliver for the American people.  That’s
his focus.  
  
Go ahead, Karen.  
  
Q    I’m going to try a couple on the border negotiations.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, sure.   
  
Q    Now that it seems there’s a semblance of optimism on the Hill that
this is inching closer —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We’ve always been optimistic.  
  
Q    No, on the Hill.  On the Hill.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, okay.  Okay, okay.  
  
Q    — a semblance, though — (laughter) — that it’s inching closer to
the finish line, has the President spoken to negotiators this week? 
Will he meet with any of the Senate leaders on this to get it across the
finish line?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, don’t have any — we don’t have anything to preview
on any conversations that the President has had specifically with the
negotiations.  And I’m assuming you’re speaking to — you’re speaking
about the senators, both Republicans and Democrats.  Obviously, he gets
regularly updated from his team, who have been in close — a part of
these negotiations in close — obviously, in close contact with members
in the Senate.  And they’ve been doing this for months now — for
months.  So, he’s getting regular updates — every day, daily updates.   
  
And the President said last week — I think you — someone asked him if —
how he felt about it.  And he thought it was basically — that a deal was
— was coming — was soon to come.   
  
So, look, we’re — we continue to be optimistic.  This is an important,
important negotiation to try to figure out how do we address a broken
system, the immigration system, how do we deal with border security.  It
is a bipartisan negotiation, which we really, truly appreciate, to get
to that agreement.  And we are going to continue to be optimistic.   
  
If there are any conversations that the President is going to have that
we feel — you know, that we will — we will — that is necessary to share,
we certainly will do that.  But as you know, the President — you know,
because he has relationships with many of those Senate members, tends to
have regular commun- — communications with some of those senators on the
Hill.  
  
Q    And Arlette had asked Kirby — so, he touched on this somewhat, but
I think more specifically for you because of the politics of this —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — if the border policy changes come in at a higher number, the
total cost of that compared to what the administration had asked for in
the supplemental for border security, is there wiggle room in the —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You mean in the appropriations process?  
  
Q    — in the — yeah.  Is there wiggle room from the administration on
the number that is put for the Ukraine funding?  If — would that come
down from the administration’s side to keep this still in that ballpark
range of $106 billion?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I want to be really mindful and really careful
here.  I’m not going to say what we would accept or not accept.   
  
What I will say is that the national security supplemental that the
President put forth back in the fall is incredibly important.  We want
Congress to move forward with it.  We want Congress to act on the
supplemental.  It is an emergency request.  That’s why presidents
usually put forward supplementals.  And it’s about our national security
not just abroad, but obviously here in the U.S.  And it includes
Ukraine, Israel, Taiwan.  It also includes, obviously, the border
security.   
  
So, there are different parts and pieces to this that are very
important.  And — and it was a thoughtful process.   
  
I’m not going to get into the appropriations part of it.  I’m not going
to get into anything else beyond — you know, beyond letting the
negotiators, as it — as it — as it is focused — as they’re focused on
border security — to allow them to do their negotiations.   
  
Again, these — the negotiations that they’re talking about is,
obviously, policy and — and funding as well.   
  
What are we going to do to give the resources that are needed to deal
with what’s going on at the border?  I’m just going to stick it to there
— keep it to there.  
  
Go ahead, Nancy.   
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  On the razor wire case.  Now that the Supreme
Court has decided in favor of the administration, what is the plan?  How
quickly does the administration intend to remove all the razor wire that
has been set up?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I don’t have the — the specifics on the — what the
border security is going to do and how they’re going to do it.  
  
Look, we are certainly glad that the Supreme Court made the decision to
— to vacate the injunction that prevented border security to actually do
their jobs, to do humanitarian work, to actually — to actually enforce
laws.  And it got in the way.   
  
And what — and what was put forward that — what — what — what Texas was
doing — the governor was doing was actually ineffective.  And that’s
something that we have to remember: It was ineffective.   
  
And so, now it’s going to — it’s going to allow border security to do
their jobs.  It’s going to allow border security to actually act if
there is an issue or some — a dangerous situation happening and they
need to act and save lives.  It’s going to allow them to do that and
actually do their jobs and enact law.   
  
Look, at the bott- — at the — you know, the bottom line here is that we
need changes in policy.  We need funding.  And that’s what the
conversations are happening in the Senate.  And so, that’s incredibly
important.  We do not need political stunts.  We do not need political
stunts that we’re seeing — that was — that we’re seeing from the Texas
governor.   
  
But, look, this is — this is — we’re glad that it happened.  And now
Border — Border Patrol will be able to do their jobs.  
  
Q    My c- — my colleague who is down at the border has new video of the
Texas National Guard setting up razor wire right now, today, even in the
wake of this decision.  How does the administration plan to deal with
that without getting into some kind of direct conflict with the Texas
National Guard?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So — so, what was — what was decided on was the
ability for the Border Patrol agents to cut through the wire, right? 
The — the — kind of, the initial reason as the wire is being put —
putting la- — being laid out there, that still has to go to the fi- —
the cir- — court, the Fifth — the Fifth Circuit.  Right?  They still
have to go through that process.  Maybe it goes to the Supreme Court. 
I’m going to be careful and not talk about that legal process.  
  
But what we know that we are able to do, that the Border Patrol is able
to do is cut through the border wire so they can actually do their
jobs.  There’s a whole ‘nother process that has to go through the — the
legal system.  So, we’re going to let DOJ and others continue that
process.  
  
But now, Border Patrol has a — has the ability — ability to do their
jobs because now they can cut through the wire.  
  
Go ahead, Arlette.  
  
Q    You started the briefing talking about some of these positive
economic indicators and how the mood of consumers is changing as you’re
seeing some of these positive signs in the economy.  But so far, it
really hasn’t changed in their perception of how President Biden has
contributed to this and — and helped them.  Are there discussions about
different ways that you can try to communicate this message, given the
fact that, so far, it just hasn’t sunk in with the American psyche that
Biden should be getting credit, in your belief?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, we’re going to just continue to have the
conversation.  We’re going to continue to have the President talk —
speak directly to the American people.  You saw him do that in many
different ways in the past two weeks, where he’s been able to address
Americans at their home — right? — where he’s been able to go to a
business and talk to folks at — at a — at a business.  
  
And so, look, we’re going to try — obviously, we’re always trying to
find ways to communicate with folks on the ground.  And we understand,
look, polls don’t vote; people vote.  That’s really important to
remember as well.  
  
And — but I think the data still matters.  The fact that consumer
sentiment is high in a way that we hadn’t seen it in some time — right?
— the numbers show that — and the fact that the economy is indeed
stronger than it was.  Since the President walked into this
administration, he’s been able to create more than 14 million jobs.  All
of that matters.   
  
We’re going to do our job.  We’re going to continue to have those
conversations with the American people.  And you’ll see that.  And
you’ll see contin- — the President has been doing that for the last
three years, and he’s not going to stop.  And we’re going to make sure
that the American people hear directly from him as — you know, as often
as we can.  
  
Q    And is the President frustrated that Americans are feeling better
about the economy, but they’re not feeling better about his role in
it?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I think what the President is — is proud to see is
that the data is showing that consumer confidence is up, is that we’re
able to see gas prices under three bucks in more than — in 27 states. 
That’s important.  That’s what the President is happy to see.   
  
The President is — is happy to see that we’ve created more than 14
million jobs.  That’s what we’re going to continue to work on, an
economy that is — that — that makes sure that we build it from the
bottom up, middle out.  And let’s not forget, we’re going to continue to
lower costs for the American people.  
  
And so, as long as we do that, as long as we do our job, the President
does his job, then that’s what matters.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Hi.  Thank you so much.  So, you said at the beginning of the
briefing that 19 states have experienced the lowest unemployment rate on
record.  What do they have in common?  Are they geographically clustered
in one area?  And to what do you attribute this?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, that’s a good question.  I don’t — I don’t have
specifically which 19 states.  Certainly, we can get that number.  It’s
in the — obviously, it’s in the data.  So — it’s in the stun- — state
unemployment data, so you can actually pull it fr- — directly from
there.  
  
I think we attribute that to the President’s plans and policies and what
he’s been able to do for the past three years — right? — whether it’s
legislation — historic piece of legislation — whether it’s the
Bipartisan Infra- — Infrastructure — Infrastructure Act, or whether it
is the CHIPS and Science Act.  I mean, there are multiple — we believe,
multiple reasons, multiple policy changes that the President has been
able to do to get the economy going.  And we see that in the data.   
  
And so, we — we believe that what the President has done is working. 
Now, we have more work to do in lowering costs, and we’ll continue to do
that.  But certainly, this is the President and this administration’s
work at hand, along with some of the work that we’ve been able to do
with Congress.  
  
Q    To the back.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Jeff.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  The President, you alluded to, is speaking about
abortion at the event tonight in Virginia.  He has often said he would
like Congress to codify Roe.  Are there talks between the White House
and legislators in Congress about doing that?  I know they don’t have
the votes for it, but is there an effort right now to prepare for that
underway?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I can’t speak of an — of a — of conversations
specifically on — that we’ve had with legislators.  We talk to
legislators on a — an array of issues and — and, certainly, different
agendas.  I know that legislators in Congress have tried to introduce
pieces of legislation to codify — to do just that, to codify Roe.   
  
And so, look, here — here’s where we are: Majority of Americans want to
make sure that their rights are protected, that their freedoms are
protected.  That’s where majority of Americans are.  They want to make
sure that women have the right, the ability to make decisions on their
reproductive healthcare.  That is something that we know.  
  
And Republicans do not stand with the majority of Americans.  You have
about, I believe, three national bans that were — that were introduced
by congressional Republicans.  And so, that is a problem.   
  
And so, we have to be very clear.  This is why the President, the Vice
President, his entire administration is going to continue to speak loud
and clear and stand on the side of the majority of Americans.  And so,
until we have Republicans that are willing to — to stand with the
majority of Americans on this and do something and make sure that our
freedoms and rights — women’s freedoms and rights are protected, then
we’re not going to be able to make this happen.  
  
But doesn’t mean that the President is not going to continue to call f-
— call on that.  And so, that’s what we want to see.  In order to truly
deal with this issue, we have to see legislation in Congress.  And that
is just the facts.  
  
Q    And is that the message that he wants to get across tonight?  And
apropos tonight, is there a reason that this rally or this event was
scheduled on the same day as the New Hampshire primary —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Laughs.)  
  
Q    — where the Republican candidates —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I would refer you to the —  
  
Q    — will be in focus?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — scheduling of this political rally to the campaign. 
So, I’m not going to speak to that.  And I’m not going to get ahead of
what the President is going to say.  You’ll hear from him directly
tonight.  
  
But, look, you heard from the President yesterday during his task force
— his for- — task force on this particular issue, reproductive
healthcare.  Yesterday, he spoke to the importance of making sure that
we stand with majority of Americans.  You saw the Vice President in
Wisconsin speaking to the issue.  We were — we were very clear on where
this administration stand.  We stand with majority of Americans on
this.   
  
Q    Maybe the sixth row?  (Laughter.)  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  Go ahead.   
  
Q    I mean, you haven’t gone past the fifth row yet.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  
  
Q    I’m just saying.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  Thank you for keeping track, but I believe
the gentleman is — there’s a gentleman that I called on that’s sitting
in your row.   
  
Q    Well, that’s true.  That’s true.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thank you.  Oh, thanks.  Thanks, James.  I appreciate
that.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  Does the White House support a possibility of
limiting immigration parole that seems to be now at the center of Senate
negotiations?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m not going to speak to the specifics of the
negotiation process, what’s being discussed, the policy discussions, or
even the funding component of the discussions.  Just not going to do
that from here.  Can’t negotiate from the podium because we want to make
sure that they have — negotiators have the freedom to have a good-faith
conversation.  I’m just not going to inject myself from here.  
  
Q    Another topic.  Venezuelan President Maduro is accusing the U.S. of
plotting to kill him, specifically the CIA and the DEA.  Has the White
House seen these accusations?  And how do you respond to them?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, I have not seen those accusations.  Obviously,
that is — sounds a bit — a bit — well, it’s not even a bit.  It’s just
not factual.  I’m just going to leave that there.   
  
Q    Sixth row (inaudible)?  (Laughter.)  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  I’m trying to call some people I haven’t
called on.  Go ahead, in the back.  Go ahead, go ahead.   
  
Q    I know —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, go ahead.  This young — this young lady.   
  
Q    I’m trying to help you do that.  (Laughter.)  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I know.  Thanks for the help.  But I got it.  Go
ahead, go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you.  So —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No.  
  
Q    Sorry, me?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  Yes.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  We’re sort of seeing a lot of House Republicans
push back on the Supreme Court ruling, sort of encouraging the Texas
governor to ignore it.  People like —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Could you start from the beginning?  I missed the
beginning of your question.  
  
Q    That’s okay.  So, we’re seeing some House Republicans encourage
Texas to ignore the Supreme Court ruling.  Representative Clay Higgins
also sort of said it’s a “civil war.”  Is that rhetoric helpful to solve
the situation at the border?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  None of it is helpful.  That rhetoric is not helpful. 
The political stunts are not helpful.  They’re just not.  They’re not
dealing with the issue that we’re seeing at the border.   
  
What we have asked and what we have said: Let’s work in a bipartisan
way.  That’s why we are very grateful to what the senators are doing
right now in negotiating in a bipartisan way, in good faith, to come up
with a solution on a system that has been broken for decades — an
immigration system that has been broken for decades.   
  
And so, you have Republicans coming together, Democrats coming together
in the Senate to actually figure out how — what are the policy changes
that we can — meaningful policy changes that could be put forth, what’s
the funding — funding stream that is needed to deal with the border. 
And that’s what we want to see, and that’s what we appreciate.  
  
All of the political stunts that — some of them put — you know, put
Border Patrol agents’ lives in danger.  It puts migrants’ lives in
danger.  That’s not helpful.  That is not helpful at all.   
  
Go ahead, Courtney.  
  
Q    Thank you.  Will President Biden renominate Todd Edelman for a seat
on the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia?  There was
reporting that that’s not going to  
happen.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I’m not going to get ahead of the President’s
nomination process.  So, just don’t have anything to preview.   
  
Q    It’s to renominate, though, not —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m just not going to get ahead of the process at this
time.  
  
Q    Okay.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, sir.  
  
Q    So, knowing that there’s bipartisan negotiations happening in the
Senate right now when it comes to the supplemental — obviously, House
Republicans are not involved, but we do know Speaker Johnson was
obviously here at the White House meeting with President Biden.  Are —
is the White House or President Biden or any administration officials
speaking directly with House Republicans about this, knowing that
they’re basically saying that it’s dead on arrival, whatever comes out
of the Senate?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, look, the President spoke to this last week a
little bit too.  He said — you know, he — he called out — he said to
House Republicans: Do you really want to actually fix this problem?  Do
you really actually want to do the work that’s needed to deal with the
issue that we’re seeing at the border?  Do you really want to fix this
immigration system?  I’m adding on to what the President said, but
that’s a question for House Republicans.   
  
I think we have proven — Republicans in the Senate and Democrats in the
Senate have proven that we actually want to work on this issue, on this
broken system.   
  
And so, look, if they are real about this, if they want to fix this
problem, then they would get involved.  They would get involved.  But
they haven’t, right?  You heard me say, back at the end of last year,
they left in the middle of December while negotiations were happening
with Republicans in the Senate and the Democrats in the Senate.   
  
So, you know, this is a real problem.  This is an issue that Americans
care about, and they want to see it done in a bipartisan way.  That’s
what we’re trying to do.  That’s what we’re trying —  
  
I don’t know why House Republicans continue to get in the way.  
  
Q    But outside of the meeting last week, have they been in constant
contact at all with House Republicans?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, don’t have any specific communication or
conversations to read out.  Obviously, it came out — it came up in the —
in the meeting that the President had last week with leadership.  And
that — it was obviously about Ukraine and the importance of America
supporting Ukraine in their fight for freedom.  But obviously, as well,
border security came up.  And there was an agreement.  There was an
agreement with folks in the room that we needed to deal with both
issues.  Both issues were really important.   
  
And so, that’s what I will leave you with.  But House Republicans could
speak for themselves.  And we are saying to them: Why are they getting
in the way?  Why don’t they come to the table and actually have these
negotiations with us as well?  
  
Way in the back, go ahead.  
  
Q    Great.  Thank you.  Immigration is now the top issue for Americans
— over the economy, over inflation.  That’s according to a new Harvard
poll.  So, is immigration the President’s top priority?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  There are many issues that are top priorities for this
President, right?  This is a president that has to deal with multiple
issues all at once.   
  
Obviously, immigration is clearly important.  I just went into — into a
back-and-forth with your colleague here about what’s been going on —
right? — what he’s been doing; what Republicans and Democrats in the
Senate have been doing; how these negotiations are so important to get
to a bipartisan agreement to deal with immigration, this broken system,
and the border security.   
  
So, obviously, it’s a priority for this President.  And he is managing
multiple things that are important — that are important and key to the
American public.  
  
Q    I just want to follow up on that.  Also on the border.  Speaker
Johnson — he put out a statement talking about this issue.  He’s saying
that the VP wants Congress to, quote, “grant mass amnesty and spend
taxpayer dollars to process — not stop — more illegals,” and “her
‘solution’ is to…incentivize the lawlessness and the chaos.”  Can the
White House  
respond to that?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I will say to the House Speaker: If you truly care
about the border and dealing with the border in a way that — that
actually helps the American people and if he really cares about a broken
immigration system that’s been broken for decades, then come have a
conversation — a true, good-faith conversation.  Be part of the
solution.  Be part of the negotiations.  Actually do something that’s
going to make a change for the better.  
  
And right now, that’s not what we’re seeing.  He’s getting in the way. 
And, you know, that’s not what this President is about.   
  
He wants to see this done in a bipartisan way, a bipartisan agreement
that is effective and that actually has meaningful policy changes and
also funding streams that make sense — that make sense.  
  
All right.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Thanks, everybody.  We’ll see you
tomorrow.  
  
1:16 P.M. EST
