---
date: '2024-01-18'
modified_time: 2024-01-18 12:45:58-05:00
published_time: 2024-01-18 12:33:13-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/01/18/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-nsc-coordinator-for-strategic-communications-john-kirby-39/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and NSC Coordinator For\
  \ Strategic Communications John\_Kirby"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

(January 17, 2024)

2:33 P.M. EST

     MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Good afternoon, everyone.

     Q    Good afternoon. 

     MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, today, the Biden-Harris administ- –(the
briefing room sound system experiences technical difficulties) — the
levels.  Is there a — should I start?  Sou- — is — do I sound, like,
echoey?

     Q    Yes.

     MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay, well, sorry.  Here we go.

     Today, the Biden-Harris administration took new actions to tackle
hidden junk fess by proposing a rule that would end excessive overdraft
fees. 

     For too long, some banks have charged extreme overdraft fees,
sometimes $30 or more, that often hit the most vulnerable Americans the
hardest. 

Today’s proposal by Consumer Financial Protection Bureau would cut the
average overdraft fee by more than half, saving them — saving the
millions of families that pay these fees an average of $150 a year. 
That would add up to save Americans $3.5 billion a year.  Unfortunately,
some Republicans in Congress continue to defend the rights of big banks
to exploit their customers. 

President Biden believes it’s wrong that some companies rip off
Americans simply because they can, and his administration won’t let
them.

As we work to lower costs and build the economy from the middle out and
the bottom up, we got more evidence today that Americans are feeling the
strength of the economy.  Retail sales beat expectation last month,
capping a record holiday shopping season.  From TVs to toys, Americans
were able to buy gifts for their loved ones that were more affordable
and arrived on time thanks to the President’s work to fix and strengthen
supply chains. 

And today, a new poll from Axios showed Americans have a surprising
degree of satisfaction where — with their economic situation.  The poll
showed Americans are optimistic about their finances.  Sixty-three
percent say their finances are currently good, and eighty-five percent
believe they will get better this year.  That’s not an accident; that’s
Bidenomics at work. 

(Referring to the briefing room sound system.)  The volumes are
incredibly weird right now.  Did we get that fixed?

Q    I think so.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay, I think so.  All right. 

And now, as you all know, today, we’re joined by my colleague, Admiral
John Kirby, who’s here to discuss the United States’ continued response
to the ongoing and escalating attacks by the Houthis in the Red Sea. 

And with that, all — I think it’s all fixed for you now, Admiral.  It’s
all fixed. 

MR. KIRBY:  Thank you, Karine.  That was kind of weird. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  That was very weird.  Sounds like a gremlin was
attacking.

MR. KIRBY:  Good afternoon, everybody. 

Look, as you all saw, United States today designated the Houthis as a
Specially Designated Global Terrorist Group.  We took this action
because of their continued reckless and indiscriminate attacks on ships
transiting the Red Sea and the Gulf of Aden.  These attacks are a clear
example of terrorism, violation of international law, and a major threat
to innocent lives and to global commerce. 

Now, just a couple of points.  First, today’s designation targets the
Houthis, not the Yemeni people.  The United States remains the world’s
leading donor of humanitarian assistance for Yemen.  We recognize that
more than 15 million people in Yemen are still in desperate need of
food, water, and medicine.  And we are taking a range of steps to ensure
that these sanctions preserve the ability of aid organizations to be
able to deliver all those much-needed supplies. 

Second, this designation takes effect 30 days from now.  And the reason
for that is it’ll give us time to work closely with those aid
organizations to make sure that they understand all the ramifications of
this designation, answer all their questions, and be able to provide
enough context for them to have a measure of assurance as they continue
to provide that humanitarian assistance. 

Now, look, if the Houthis cease the attacks, we can certainly reconsider
this designation.  If they don’t, as the President said, we will not
hesitate to take further actions to protect our people and the free flow
of international commerce.

With that —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Go ahead.

Q    Thanks.  John, can you talk a little bit about why the President
decided not to redesignate the Houthis as a foreign terrorist
organization, which obviously would have restricted some of that aid? 
Is it purely because of that humanitarian assistance piece?

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah, you sort of answered the question.  This particular
designation gives us — it actually gives us more flexibility, but it
also gives aid organizations a higher level of comfort that they’ll be
able to provide this assistance without running afoul of sanctions.

You’ve — we’ve already — in designating them, already issued a number of
licenses.  The license, as you know, is basically like a waiver.  It’s a
carveout — when you have a sanctions regime that — that allows for
certain goods to continue to flow despite the sanction regime. 

And so, yes, that’s the big reason here. 

Q    And then, (inaudible) the President could reconsider that
designation should the Houthis stop these attacks?  Are you essentially
using this as a bargaining chip in negotiations or — in public
negotiations with the Houthis?

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah, I mean, that would suggest there’s negotiations going
on, and we’re — there’s no negotiations here.  It’s not a bargaining
chip; it’s a way of holding the Hou- — the Houthis accountable —
additional ways to hold them accountable. 

I think, you know, if you look at the — the levers of national power —
you know, there’s an acronym for it: DIME — right? — diplomacy,
information, military, economic.  We’re using all of those levers of
national power and, frankly, international power to try to convince the
Houthis to stop these attacks and, if they don’t — and they clearly
haven’t — to make sure that we’re holding them accountable for that.

Q    And just, lastly, on a different topic: the meeting that’s taking
place in a few — in a few minutes with congressional leaders.  We
understand this is going to be focused mostly on situation in Ukraine. 
Is there a version you can provide publicly?  What are they going — what
are lawmakers going to hear from the national security staff — 

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah —

Q    — that you’ve not already telegraphed publicly about what’s
happening on the ground?

MR. KIRBY:  Well, again, I don’t want to get ahold — ahead of the
discussion.  And I suspect that in that discussion there could be some
classified content that they’ll discuss.

But in the main, this will be an opportunity for the President and for
the national security team to make sure that members of Congress fully
understand the desperate, urgent need for weapons and capabilities for
Ukraine to continue to flow. 

As you know, the last security assistance package was December 27th. 
There hasn’t been one since.  There won’t be one unless or until we can
get some funding. 

And it’s not as if the war stopped just because our aid stopped.  The
Ukrainians continue to get attacked.  They’re moving into some defensive
positions along that line, in the east in particular, and they continue
to come under artillery shell, air attacks, ballistic and cruise
missile, as well as drone attacks from the Russians. 

And they are expending what they have.  And I won’t get into their
inventory lists, but there are some weapons systems for which they are
in more need than others right now.  And the — and they have to expend
them, given ongoing combat.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Karen.

Q    Thanks.  Last week, the President said it was “irrelevant” whether
or not the Houthis were designated as a terrorist organization.  Now,
five days later, this announcement.  Did he need to be convinced that
this was the right step? 

MR. KIRBY:  No.

Q    And looking back, was it a mistake to take them off of the
terrorist list back in 2021 — just, like, consideration over these
years?

     MR. KIRBY:  No.  No, again, the previous designation was FTO —
Foreign Terrorist Organization — which doesn’t have quite the measure of
flexibility in terms of humanitarian assistance.  And so, a big reason
why we delisted them — literally, on day one — was to address a dire,
dire humanitarian situation on the ground.  And, as I said today, it
remains dire in many cases.

     The Houthis are more concerned about getting weapons and
capabilities and attacking ships in the Red Sea than they are about
helping to look after the Yemeni people.

     MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.

     Q    Thank you, Karine.  The President said last week that a
private message had been delivered to Iran about the Houthi attacks. 
Could you talk a little bit about that message?

     MR. KIRBY:  No, I cannot.

     Q    What can you tell us about what was communicated to the
Houthis?

MR. KIRBY:  That’s the same question you just asked.  (Laughter.)  I’m
not going to get into that.  The — as the President said, there was a
private message delivered to Iran, and I need to leave it at that.

Q    Has that been effective?

MR. KIRBY:  I’m just going to leave it right there.  A message was
delivered.  And, of course, publicly, we have made clear our — our
concerns about what the Houthis are doing.  We’ve made clear the support
that — that we know they’re getting from Iran.  And we’re going to
continue to take actions.

I would remind — it doesn’t get mentioned a lot in the context of the
Red Sea attacks — but this administration alone has issued some 500
sanctions — or 500 entities have been sanctioned under this
administration in just the last three years.

Q    And — and a quick question on —

MR. KIRBY:  Iranian entities.

Q    And a quick question on Iran’s foreign minister, who spoke at Davos
earlier today.  He said , “The security of the Red Sea is tied to the
developments in Gaza, and everyone will suffer if Israel’s crimes in
Gaza do not stop.”  He basically warned that all fronts will remain
active until then.  Do you have a response to that?

MR. KIRBY:  Well, I mean, let’s — to take it at — just in a couple of
pieces there.  If you look at the — it’s 32-some-odd attacks that the
Houthis have conducted now — for the ones that were targeted at ships
that were identifiable, because sometimes they launch a barrage and
there’s multiple ships and you’re not really sure what ship is being
targeted.  But let’s just take a look at the majority of the 32 where
you can identify the ship that’s being targeted.  Not a single one was
destined for Israel, and they were all destined for other ports with
others — other bits of commerce.

So, the whole argument that this is about the war in Gaza — I mean,
they’re just driving a stake through a straw man.  There’s nothing
there.

And as for the, quote, unquote, “resistance continuing,” I — I’ve said
it many times; I’m happy to repeat it: We have national security
interests in the region — significant interests.  And we have moved
additional military resources, at the President’s order, into the region
to make sure we can protect those interests.

And we mean what we say.  And if you doubt it, take a look at what
happened just a few nights ago.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, M.J.

Q    In — in his statement on the Houthis’ designation, Jake Sullivan
said that there would be an immediate reevaluation of the designation
were they to stop the attacks.  Can you just help us understand why that
reevaluation would happen immediately?  You know, would that sort of
risk the potential of them starting up the attacks again if that
designation were to be taken away pretty quickly?

MR. KIRBY:  The — the thing about sanctions designations that — they are
a pliable form of economic pressure.  You can scale them up.  You can
scale them down.  You can lay them on.  You can take them off in a
fairly simple way.  So, Jake is right. 

As I said in my opening statement, if they — if they choose to stop
these attacks, then we certainly have the option at our disposal to
remove this designation that we just — that we just issued.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.

Q    (Inaudible.)  Thank you so much.  I wanted to give you a chance to
respond to Speaker Johnson, who said earlier today — about the meeting
on Ukraine, he said   , “Before we even talk about Ukraine, I’m going to
tell the President what I’m telling you, which is border, border,
border.”  Do you think that’s a legitimate position to say that even
before you can have conversations about Ukraine, you have to settle the
situation with the border?

MR. KIRBY:  Today’s meeting is about Ukraine.  That’s what we’re going
to focus on in this discussion.  And, as the Speaker knows quite well,
we continue to negotiate in good faith in a bipartisan way with the
Senate — with Republicans and Democrats up there on Capitol Hill — about
the national security supplemental and — and about — which obviously
includes money for border security.

Q    And the Speaker also said that he has been asking the
administration for more details about the spending, what has already
been spent in Ukraine and also the endgame in Ukraine.  What kind of
message can the President deliver to the Speaker?  He says that he
hasn’t gotten the answers that he’s looking for in terms of how Ukraine
should not become another situation like what we’ve seen in the Middle
East?

MR. KIRBY:  He’ll get an opportunity to ask all those questions today at
the meeting, and I’m sure our national security team  would be happy to
help give him the context that he says — he says he’s not getting. 

I would remind that, since the beginning of the conflict in Ukraine in
February of ‘22, we have provided multiple classified and unclassified
briefings to members of Congress.  And this whole idea of a blank check
also is not true.  Every single aid package that we provided Ukraine we
have done the  consultations with Congress.  So, there have been and
will continue to be a lot of outreach from the administration with
members of Congress about Ukraine.

Right now, though, you can’t have those consultations because there’s no
aid going to Ukraine because we don’t have the funding.  And that’s what
the meeting about — today is really all about, stressing the urgent need
for that additional funding.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Thank you, Kirby.  So, with regard to national
security and Ukraine, has the threat level changed since the President
last spoke from the Oval Office, spoke to congressional leaders about
the urgency for this funding?

MR. KIRBY:  No.

Q    I just wonder —

MR. KIRBY:  Not at all.

Q    So, what — what can he say that hasn’t already been said to
convince them to all get on board and take action?

MR. KIRBY:  Well, again, without getting ahead of the President and the
conversation that he hasn’t had yet, one of the reasons our National
Security Advisor and our Deputy National Security Advisor will be in
this meeting is to bring members of Congress up to speed on what we’re
seeing right now on the battlefield and what the Ukrainian forces are
facing now as winter is full upon them and the war hasn’t stopped and
aid hasn’t continued to flow from the United States.

I mean, I think we’re at — we’re in a bit of a different situation now
in that regard than we were when the President gave his speech.  Not
that the national security implications are not all still valid; they
are just as valid, in terms of the threat that Putin face- — poses to
the, quote, unquote, “world order” and to European st- — stability and
security.

But the situation now is different in terms of the — the stoppage now of
assistance going to Ukraine.

Q    And then on the southern border.  Could the President use the
Insurrection Act to federalize the Texas National Guard?

MR. KIRBY:  I am not a legal expert on that.  I’ll have to take that
question and — and get back to you.  I know of no — just to — just to
make clear, I know of  no intention by the President to do that.

     Q    Thank you.

     Q    John, I understand that the last provision of aid to Ukraine
was December 27th.  Right now, is Ukraine fighting with 100 percent of
its capabilities?  Do they have everything that at this moment they
require?

     MR. KIRBY:  Without getting into their operational security and —
and — and letting the Russians know what they have in their inventory,
Peter, we’ll — what I can tell you is that, as I said earlier, there are
certain types of munitions, certain types of weapons that they are
expending at greater rates than others. 

     Q    So, you can’t communicate —

     MR. KIRBY:  Given that —

     Q    — that they’ve run out —

     MR. KIRBY:  Given the threat —

     Q    — of anything because you don’t want to give away —

     MR. KIRBY:  I’m not going to give —

     Q    — disadvantages?

     MR. KIRBY:  — away their inventory list.  But I’m not going to — I
mean, I’m not going to pull any punches here.  They are still going
through artillery shells and HIMARS rockets and air defense capabilities
at a pretty advanced clip, depending on what they’re facing on the
battlefield.  And so, their inventories are running lower, without
question.

     Q    Shalanda Young said in — I think it was December 5th — in her
letter, she said that we are running out of money and out of time . 
Should this be measured by Americans understanding the urgency as an
issue of days, weeks, or months?

     MR. KIRBY:  It would depend really on the kind of system we’re
talking about, Peter.  I mean, the — there are — there are some — there
are some munitions that — that they have ample stores — enough to get
them into, you know, the next couple — two, three months.

     There are others where they don’t have that kind of time.  And a
lot of that depends on what Russia does and how — what they have to
defend against.  One of the key capabilities right now for them is air
defense, because the drones and the missiles keep flying from the
Russian side, and they’re not stopping.  So, air defense is definitely
one of those critical capabilities.

     Q    And then just a quick follow-up on the conversation that
started here.  Yesterday, we’ve been asking about the Houthis.  Now,
Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin fortunately is now recovering; he’s no
longer in the hospital. 

     He and the President last spoke one-on-one December  6th.  The last
it was publicly read out, they shared a conversation that took place on
December 9th.  There have been at least three separate strikes — the
11th, the 12th, and the 16th — against the Houthis in that time, a time
during which the two haven’t spoken.

     So, our understanding is they haven’t shared a call — at least
dating back to the 9th — for more than a week.  Is that normal that he
wouldn’t speak to the Defense Secretary —

     MR. KIRBY:  I think they  —

     Q    — with three separate operations in the course of that time?

     MR. KIRBY:  My dates are messed up, but the — the — I know the last
time they spoke was Friday — last Friday. 

     Q    Was last Friday?

     MR. KIRBY:  Just this past Friday —

     Q    So just a few —

     MR. KIRBY:  — whatever that date is.

     Q    Whatever days ago that was. 

     MR. KIRBY:  Yes.

     Q    Okay. So more recent than we had —

     MR. KIRBY:  Yeah.

     Q    — publicly heard.  Fine.

     MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead. 

     Q    Thanks, Admiral Kirby.  On Turkey.  The outgoing Turkish
ambassador told VOA that he expects to see some positive developments in
a month or so with regard to the sale of F-16s to Turkey.  So, can you
give us an update on this?  And once Turkey completes the ratification
process for Sweden’s NATO membership, can we assume that the road for
the F-16s will be cleared?

     MR. KIRBY:  The President has been pretty consistent: We continue
to support the additional sale of F-16s and the modernization of the
current F-16 fleet for — for Turkey.  That’s a — that’s a consistent
policy position that would — that we’ve had since coming into office. 
That hasn’t changed.

     I don’t have an update for you on dates and the calendar items in
terms of what that looks like.  But — but our policy with respect to
F-16s for Turkey has not changed.

     Q    And, if I may, on Ukraine.  So, there is — there is still $4
billion in the PDA and — for Ukraine.  And I was wondering if, given the
fact that the negotiations on the border are not moving, is it possible
to use that authority now and replenish American stocks later when the
Congress approves the supplemental budget?

     MR. KIRBY:  First of all, I — I would disagree with the notion that
talks are not moving.  As I just said, the — we believe those
conversations with the Senate, in a bipartisan way, are making some
progress.

     And on your — the — the real central idea of your question is — is
this punishment authority?  And, yes, there’s additional funds
authorized under PDA, but there’s no replenishment authority funds to go
with them, to back them up.  And that’s why we — we don’t have any
additional ability to provide security assistance for Ukraine, because
there’s no replenishment authority built in.

     MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  A couple more.  Go ahead, Aurelia.

     Q    Thank you so much.  On Ukraine, I had a follow-up to Peter’s
question.  Are you saying that the stoppage of U.S. aid already has an
impact on the battlefield, in the sense that Ukrainians are refraining
from certain moves or are on the — doing stuff that they would do if
they were, you know, assured of — of continuing assistance? 

     And maybe another one, more specific.  While he’s trying to secure
additional funding, does the President wish that European countries
would do more themselves to support Ukraine?  And more specifically, has
he asked Germany to supply long-range Taurus missiles to Ukraine?

     MR. KIRBY:  I’ll let Germany speak for what they will or won’t
provide Ukraine.  We are grateful for the support that more than 50
nations continue to provide Ukraine.  And each nation gets to decide for
itself what that looks like, as appropriate.  I mean, these are
sovereign decisions.  And there has been tremendous international
support for Ukraine.

     But, look, they’re going to look at us, too.  They’re going to see
how the United States reacts here.  And I think we can expect that some
nations may take cues from the United States.  If we just pack it in and
can’t get the funding and decide, “That’s it, we’re not going to provide
anything more for Ukraine,” you can certainly see where there might be
other nations who might feel like they want to follow suit here without
our leadership.  American leadership matters here.

     On your first question, I certainly won’t speak for Ukrainian
military commanders and what they are deciding to expend on the
battlefield or not.  But you can ex- — I would — I certainly wouldn’t be
surprised if they aren’t making battlefield decisions right now that are
affected — those decisions are affected — or I should say informed by
the uncertainty as they look to the West, as they look to the United
States for additional support.

     MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.

     Q    Thanks a lot, Karine.  John, the air campaign by the U.S. has
not had a noticeable impact in terms of defer- –deterrence with the
Houthi rebels.  What makes you think that this terror designation will
change that in any way?

     MR. KIRBY:  It’s part of a — as I said, a suite of — of — of tools
at our disposal to hold them accountable.

     Q    Will —

     MR. KIRBY:  And — and I just want to remind: The attacks last week
— the large attacks that we conducted were designed to disrupt and
degrade Houthi offensive capabilities.  And we believe we did that.

     That doesn’t mean that we eliminated every single missile they own
or every drone they can fly or every radar system that they operate. 
But we believe it had good effect on degrading their capabilities to
conduct attacks.

     And as I said at the end of my opening statement, we will take
further action if we feel like we need to.  They have a choice to make. 
They continue to have a choice to make.  The right choice is to stop
these attacks.  If they don’t, we’ll continue to — to act appropriately.

     Q    Do you happen to know if the EU is going to take similar
action to designate the Houthi rebels a terrorist organization in the
way the U.S. has?

     MR. KIRBY:  I do not.

     Q    No coordination with them on this front?

     MR. KIRBY:  I’m not aware of any prior coordination with the EU
specifically on this, and you’ll have to talk to EU officials about
whether they’re willing to take a similar approach.

     MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Going to wrap it up. 

Go ahead.

     Q    Yeah.  When was the last time President Biden spoke on the
phone with Netanyahu?

     MR. KIRBY:  There has not been another call since the last one we
read out.  I don’t have the exact date in front of me.  It’s been more
than 20 days, I think.

     MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Go ahead.  Last question.

     Q    Thanks, John.  Over the weekend, the NSC issued a statement in
response to a HuffPost report on the administration’s post-war plans in
Gaza stating that the quotes attributed to U.S. officials in the story
were, quote, unquote, “made up.”  HuffPost has been seeking an apology
and a retraction at the insinuation that their reporter made up or
fabricated quotes in the story.  Can you tell us on what basis did the
NSC issue that statement?  Why is the NSC suggesting that a reporter
made up quotes?

     MR. KIRBY:  The — the issue, as I understand it, Sabrina, was
related to a document that was purported to exist that was — in this
article, and the — the quotes from the purported document that were not
accurate.  And that was the issue.  The issue was that the — whoever was
reading out this document was reading things that — that there’s not a
record of a document that — that says those things.

     Q    Because the NSC said, “We stand by our original statement,”
which seemed to just generally imply that the quotes attributed to U.S.
officials broadly in the story were made up.  Obviously, as I said,
HuffPost is seeking an apology and a retraction.  Do you have any
reaction? 

     MR. KIRBY:  This wasn’t an attempt to — to question the journalism
or to cast aspersions on journalistic ethics.  This was a reaction to
quotes attributed to a document that — for which we don’t — we don’t
have — we don’t have a document that says those things.  And that’s —
and that’s why the — that’s why the response was — was drafted and
written the way that it was. 

I — I have read it — I can see where some people might see that reaction
and — and think we were trying to, again, cast aspersions on
journalistic ethics and procedure, and that was not the intent. 

Okay?  Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thanks, Admiral.  Appreciate that.

Q    Admiral, any update on the missing SEALs?

Q    Thanks, John.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Zeke, you want to reset us?

Q    Thanks, Karine.  On the meeting this afternoon.  Can you talk about
what the President hopes to accom- — hopes to accomplish?  Is he — is he
trying to get a deal here, walking out of this meeting today?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, as the Admiral said, the focus on the meeting
today is going to be on Ukraine and making sure that Congress — the
congressional members who attend understand that we need to continue the
support for Ukraine.

It’s — he’s going to particularly underscore that if we abandon Ukraine,
there will be — there will be consequences — right? — to Ukraine, to the
people of Ukraine, to the people who have been fighting for their
democracy for so long.  And let’s not forget, they’re fighting against —
they’re fighting against the aggression from Putin. 

So, we have to be really clear here.  A failure to — a failure to act
will — certainly means that it will — it will, you know, not be helpful
to our national security.  So — and history has taught us — history has
taught us that if we do not, you know, get involved and — and we’re not
— and stop a dictator, we see what could happen.  It could — it could
actually put our national security at risk.

So, that’s going to be the focus today.  It’s going to be on Ukraine and
really laying out why it’s important to continue that support that we’ve
been providing them.

Q    But if it’s going to, you know — the negotiations right now on
immigration are taking place in the Senate.  Does the — you know, the
President has the Speaker here.  Will he discuss immigration with the
Speaker?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I’ll say this.  The President obviously wel-
— is welcoming congressional members here.  He’s open to hearing
whatever conversations that they want to have, right?  And so, it is
important, you know, to have these conversations, obviously, in a
bipartisan way.

So, that may come up.  I certainly don’t want to get ahead of those
conversation.  But the purpose — the purpose of this meeting is about
Ukraine.  That is the purpose of this meeting, and that’s what the
President wants to really lay out and — the urgency to continue to
support Ukraine and why that’s needed now and how that affects our own
national security. 

So, that is the purpose.  But, of course, members of Congress are going
to come, and they’re going to have things that they want to talk to with
the President.  We certainly welcome that.

Q    But why hasn’t the President engaged in negotiations with the
House?  The White House (inaudible) on — on border security, on — on
immigration — this negotiation today was in the Senate, but obviously,
you know, the House has a say here, and they are not happy with what’s
happening on the Senate side of things.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, the House went home in mid-December —
right? — while — while the negotiations were occurring and happening in
the Senate in a bipartisan way.  Obviously, Republicans and Democrats
and here at the White House, we were having those conversations, trying
to find a bipartisan agreement.

We were — we were having those conversations, even through — even
through the holiday weekend — I mean, sorry, the holiday break.  And
they decided to go home.  Literally, they decided to go home. 

And so, those conversations are going to continue.  This meeting does
not stop those conversations from continuing.  We think it’s headed in
the right direction.  So, that’s important as we’re talking about the
border security and what we can do to make sure that we’re dealing with
that issue.

And so, we appreciate Republicans and Democrats in the Senate operating
with us in good faith.  And we think it’s headed in the right direction.

Q    And, finally, do you think that, like — that criticizing the House
for going home improves your odds of getting whatever deals, should
there be a deal with Senate, through the House?  I mean —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean — well, part —

Q    — I’m just curious what strategy is here.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Here’s the thing — and I appreciate the question, and
I get the question, but Republicans in the House have been incredibly —
they’ve gotten in the way.  They have gotten in the way when it comes to
border security.  They have gotten in the way and voted — and actually
voted on pieces of legislation to take away some of the law enforcement,
the CBP — right? — at the border.   That’s what they voted on in — back
in May.

So, we want to work with them.  But they’ve been very clear where they
stand.  So, look, we’re going to have — the President is — is looking
forward to having a conversation with members of Congress, obviously,
here with his own national security team, with other members of his team
here.  They’re going to talk at 3:15. 

And he wants to really lay out the importance of Ukraine.  He is — he’s
willing — always willing to hear out members of Congress on what they
want to discuss. 

But we’ve been very clear, the Senate has been — Republicans in the
Senate have wanted to work with us.  They’re talking through us with —
negotiating, trying to find a bipartisan agreement, and that’s the way
to move forward.

Go ahead, Weijia.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  To follow up on Tolu’s question to Kirby —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — Speaker Johnson has made clear that they’re not even going to
talk about Ukraine until the border is addressed.  And he’s made clear
that it’s H.R.2 or bust.  So, how is the President going to navigate
that in today’s meeting?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  He’s not the only congress- — congressperson in the
room today.  He’s not.  He’s not the only person that’s going to be in
the room.  There will be other congressional members.  The President has
been really clear: He wants to talk about Ukraine, the urgency of making
sure we continue that assistance to Ukraine; what that means not just
for the broader world national security but also for us.

And so, Speaker Johnson is not going to be the only person in the room. 
And so, look — but obviously, the President is going to bring people
together.  He wants to hear from — from folks.  And so, he’s willing to
hear what — what these congressional members want to talk about.  But
the purpose of this meeting is to talk about Ukraine.

Q    But what can you get done without Speaker Johnson and —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m not saying we can’t —

Q    — Republican support?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m not — I’m not saying that.  I’m saying he’s not —
you’re saying if — if he wants to talk about — about something else,
like border security, how can he — how can the President manage the
conversation.  There will be other people in — in the room. 

And I think folks understand that U- — that there is a national security
importance of having this meeting.  That’s why the President is bringing
folks together.  And not only that — let’s not forget, they’re going to
hear, also, from the national security — his national security team as
well.  
  
     Q    Some people who won’t be in the room are members of the
press.  And in the past, meetings with congressional leaders have been
open.  Is there a reason why today’s is closed?  
  
     MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, we had a similar meeting back in
October, as you know.  And so, that was an important meeting about
national security, the supplemental as well.  And so, that occurred.  
      
     Look, not all meetings are — are public or have a — a press
component.  The President, as you know, has a long track record in
Washington, D.C., of — of, you know, bringing folks together, getting a
bipartisan deal.  And so, we want to — he wants to make sure we get
straight to work.  He wants to make sure that we have this really
important conversation.  He wants to get straight to it.  
  
     We expect some members of these — members of — of Congress to go to
the sticks after — after their meeting.  So, you certainly will hear
directly from them.  And we will have a readout, as well, of the
meeting.  
  
     So, there will be an opportunity to ask questions of the members. 
They’ll be at the sticks.  And then you’ll hear directly from us as
well.  
  
     Q    Thank you, Karine.  
  
     Q    To follow up somewhat on Weijia.  Also, House Speaker Johnson
said today — I mean, he seemed to throw cold water on the Senate border
negotiations when he said, “I don’t think now is the time for
comprehensive immigration reform because we know how complicated that
is.  You can’t do that quickly.”  
  
     How will the President receive that message today if Johnson says
this is too complicated to do right now?  
  
     MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Making sure that we take care of our border is
not too complicated.  It’s not.  It’s not.  If people come together in
good faith, as they’ve been doing in the Senate, we can get this done. 
We can get this done.   
  
     And let’s not forget, the President actually put forth a
comprehensive immigration proposal almost three years ago.  Very —
almost three years ago.  We had three years — three years to work on
something.  If that was what the — Speaker Johnson is concerned about,
we had three years to work on it.  
  
     And so, look — and if he — and if he was really — really concerned
about it, then when these negotiations started before — before the
holiday break, they would have stayed.  They would have stayed and — and
actually, you know, tried to be part of the solution.  
  
     Look, we want to have a bipartisan agreement.  That’s what we
want.  We want a bipartisan agreement because the President understands
that’s how we’re going to fix the problem.  That is it.  
  
     And — and so, look, it’s continuing.  We’re going to see what
happens in — with the Senate negotiations.  We’re going to see what —
where they land.  Certainly not going to get ahead of that from here.  
      
     But it is important.  It is important to get this done.  And the
President is not going to stop from — from negotiating with the
senators.  
  
     Q    And just a quick one.  Beyond the congressional leaders, who
exactly is going to be in this meeting?  How did the White House come up
with this list?  Why this group?  
  
     MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I can say, as you all know and been
mentioning, Speaker Johnson will be there, Leader Schumer, McConnell,
and Jeffries, and the chairs and ranking members of the House and the
Senate Committees on Armed Services, Foreign Affairs, Appropriations,
and Intelligence.  So, that’s incredibly important as we’re talking
about Ukraine, obviously, and that — that part of our national security
supplemental.   
  
     And also from the White House, so you all know, the Chief of Staff,
Jeff Zients, will be there; National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan;
Counselor Steve Ricchetti; Legislative Affairs Director Shuwanza Goff;
Director of National Intelligence Avril Haines; OMB Director Shalanda
Young; and Principal Deputy National Security Advisor Jon Finer.  
  
     Again, this is going to be about Ukraine.  Some of this will be
classified — will have classified content.  And so, that is why it’s
important for all of those folks to be in the room as we’re having these
conversations.  
  
     Q    Thank you.  I understand you’re saying the meeting is about
Ukraine.  If and when bo- — the issue of border security comes up, which
we know it will and is — is expected to, what specific concessions is
the President willing to make on the issue of border security?  
  
     MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I’m not going to negotiate from here. 
I’m not.  There’s been negotiations happening as it relates to the
border security in the Senate for some months now between Republicans
and Democrats.  We’re going to let that process continue.  We’re going
to let that — that — that doesn’t stop.  Those negotiations, those
conversations is not going to stop because the President is meeting with
congressional members today.  
  
     Again, our focus today, the President’s focus today is going to be
about Ukraine and the importance of continuing to support Ukraine as
they fight against tyranny, as they fight against President Putin’s
aggression.  That’s going to be the focus.  
  
     And I said the President is — you know, he brings people together. 
Obviously, is — is willing to — to listen to what folks have to say. 
But that is the purpose — is Ukraine.  And those negotiations on the
Hill, on the Senate side, is going to continue.  
  
     Q    And a quick one on the Vice President’s abortion tour that is
expected to start on Monday.  She’s headed to Wisconsin.  She’s
kickstarting the — the tour in Wisconsin.  Can you share more details on
that trip?  And where else is she planning to go?  What is the White
House planning to achieve with this?  
  
     MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, more broadly, on Monday is the 51st
anniversary of the landmark decision Roe v. Wade.  So, both — both the
President and the Vice Pre- — President is going to be marking that
landmark decision, that anniversary.  
  
     It’s an important anniversary, as the administration works to
defend reproductive rights for women across the country, while
Republican elected officials pu- — push extreme abortion bans that deny
women the care that they need, force families to travel out of state for
healthcare, and threaten healthcare providers with prosecution for
providing the care that they are trained to provide.   
  
     So, obviously, it’s an important day.  We’re going to — we’re going
to mark that 51st anniversary.  And you’ll hear more from the Vice
President’s office as to what her kickoff tour is going to look like. 
So, I’d certainly refer you to her office.  And then we will have more
on what the President — how the President is going to mark that day.  
  
     Q    Is — is the President planning to join her at any point during
this tour?  
  
     MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t — I don’t have any — I don’t have
anything to — to lay out on any — of the President joining the Vice
President on this particular tour.  But what I can say is both the Vice
President and the President are going to be marking this day on Monday. 
We will have more to share on what that will look like.  
  
     Go ahead, M.J.  
  
     Q    Karine, does the White House believe that Democrats have
already made significant concessions on the border?  And does it believe
that Democrats, you know, have more room for additional concessions?  
  
     MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I want to be really careful.  There are
negotiations happening.  If I speak t- — from — from here about it, I
don’t want to get in the way of what they’re trying to make happen,
which is come up with a bipartisan agreement to deal with border
security.  
  
     Look, what the President understands — and he’s been around for
some time, right?  He’s been in Washington for some time.  He’s been a
senator, as you all know.  He’s been Vice President, as you all know. 
And he understands that it takes both sides to come together to deal
with — to deal with an issue.   
  
     And when you deal with a bipartisan situation, you put a — put
forth an agreement, you know, there are going to be concessions that are
going to be made.  I don’t want to speak to them from here.  I’m going
to let the negotiators have those conversations.  They will decide what
works, what kind of deal that they can put forth.  
  
     But obviously, a bipartisan agreement — that means both sides have
to give up a little something.  That’s how bipartisan agreements work,
obviously.  
  
     Q    And on a separate matter.  Yesterday, in response to Governor
Hutchinson suspending his presidential campaign, a DNC spokesperson said
in a statement, “This news comes as a shock to those of us who could
have sworn he had already dropped out.”  
  
     Seems rather gratuitous, you know, not to mention not serious.  I
just wonder if the tone of that statement reflects how President Biden
views the governor and views his now-suspended campaign?

     MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I appreciate the question.  This is something
that we definitely want to address. 

President Biden has deep respect for Governor Hutchinson and admires the
race that he ran.  The President knows him to be a man of principle who
cares about our country and has a strong record of public service. 

This morning, the Chief of Staff here, Jeff Zients, called the governor
to convey this and apologized for the statement that did not — that did
not represent the President’s views.

So, again, as — as I just stated, Jeff Zients called the governor to
apologize on behalf of the President and it did not — it did not reflect
his views.

Q    So, there was an apology that was conveyed to the governor.  Was
any action taken?  Or was anything communicated to the decision by the
DNC to put this statement out?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I can’t speak to — I can’t speak to how the
communication — communication with the DNC.  Obviously, it is a — it is
a — the Democratic political arm, so I can’t — I don’t want to speak to
that.  You would have to reach out to the DNC directly. 

But what I can say is how the President felt.  It did not represent his
views.  We apologized to the governor.  He has — he respects the
governor’s public service.  And we just wanted to make that very clear.

Go ahead, sir.

Q    Yeah, another question on the border.  Why hasn’t the Vice
President’s Root Causes Strategy made a bigger difference in lowering
the number of people who have been apprehended at the border?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, look, the Pres- — the Vice President’s — what
she’s been able to do is meet with leaders in the region and talk about
how do we — to your point, the root causes — how do we deal with what’s
happening in — in those said countries and — and offer up any — any
support that we could — could offer up.

But, look, it’s not just the Vice President here or this President or
this administration.  When it comes to immigration, it has been a
problem that has existed for decades — for decades.  This sa- — this
system has been broken way before this administration stepped in. 

So, the President took this very seriously.  The first day of his
administration, he put forth a po- — he put forth policy ideas, a
legislation in a comprehensive way to deal with this issue. 

And so, now, I think what’s really important — and we can’t miss this —
right? — now there is an actual conversation, negotiations happening in
the Senate, in Congress in a bipartisan way to figure out how to deal
with border security.  And I think that is the most important thing
here.  And we’re — we feel like it’s going in the di- — right
direction. 

Q    Is that — is that particular strategy, though — did it — was it too
narrow?  Did it fail to anticipate the poss- —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What strategy?

Q    The — the Root Causes Strategy.  Targeting those —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, not at all.  Not at all.

Q    — three countries —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, but the —

Q    — when we know now that —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Wait, but hold —

Q    — the migration is coming —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hold on.  There’s — there’s root causes.  There’s
dealing with a broken system, which is why we put forth a — a
immigration — immigration proposal that deals with policy and funding. 

And so, now we’re having those conversation in Congress, and I think
that’s really important.  And that’s what we’re hoping — we’re hoping
that we can get to — to a place where we come into a bipartisan
agreement.  And that’s going to be the focus.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Another question on the border.  Can you, sort of,
talk about how the President views humanitarian parole for asylum
seekers?  Does he believe that asylum seekers should be able to stay in
this country until their cases are heard?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I — I want to be — and I get the question.  I
just want to be super careful here, because I don’t want to get into
what’s being discussed in Congress.  So, I’m going to, you know, not say
anything beyond what I have said — is, like, there’s negotiations
happening.  There’s going to be different policy components that are
going to come up, obviously.  They’re going to come up with a — an
agreement here that both Republicans and Democrats agree on on the
Senate side.  And then we hope that we can really deal with this issue. 
I just want to be super, super mindful and not get into specifics on
policies.

Q    But even on the basic principle of someone seeking asylum, does the
President believe they should be able to if they have legitimate
concerns?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, obviously.  We’ve been very clear about that. 
But I just want to be super careful.  I don’t want to go into a rabbit
hole about each policy and what the President supports or believes in
because there is a there con- — there — there are negotiations
happening.

Q    Yeah.  And my last question.  Just — Speaker Johnson says that he
wants the border to be completed as one of his stipulations in this deal
— or the border wall — I’m sorry — the border wall to be completed as
one of his stipulations.  What’s the White House’s response to that
(inaudible)?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We’re having a — a bipartisan conversation in the
Senate about how we deal with border security.  Going to leave it there
and let the Republicans and Democrats who are actually coming to the
table in good faith and have been doing that for months, which we
appreciate — and we think it’s headed in the right direction — we’re
going to let them have that conversation.

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  Why are you repeating this false claim that
Republicans voted to reduce the number of Border Patrol agents, even
though the Washington Post gave the administration three “Pinocchios”
for that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, we don’t believe it’s a false claim.  Our
statements were very direct here. 

Last year, House GOP voted — voted — and not only did they vote for it,
but they touted — they touted their Limit, Save, Grow Act.  That’s the
act.

Q    But there’s no appropriations in that.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, let me —

Q    And they vowed —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  They — they limit —

Q    — that it would never affect Border Patrol.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  They — they — they voted for and touted it.  Right? 
This is an act.  And this would have forced the elimination of 2,000
Border Patrol agents.  That’s what this act that they touted, that they
voted for in the House.  So, that was their proposal. 

Q    It wasn’t their proposal.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And — and that was what they —

Q    They clearly —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — voted for back in — in May.

Q    They — they clearly stated at that time that Border Patrol — also
veterans’ benefits and entitlements — would never be impacted by any of
the reductions.  The — and also, the bill never had any appropriations
in it. 

So, this claim that you guys are rolling out — you know, it’s the White
House applying White House math to a bill that never had any
appropriations.  And moreover, the administra- — or the members in
Congress who, you know, put this together vowed that it wouldn’t affect
these things.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  If you —

Q    So, the reason I —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — I ask is because it’s just — you know, to voters, don’t you think
they know the difference between, you know, what is a truthful statement
and what is spin?  And is it insulting to them at all to keep saying it
when it was — it’s just not true?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Laughs.)  One thing that the President does not do is
insult vot- — insult voters or American people, to be more exact,
because I want to be careful about — about this — what I can say about
this upcoming election.

What I will say is, if you look at the bill — this act that they touted,
that they voted for — House Republicans — back in May, they were — it
was very clear that it would have forced — it would have forced the
emil- — elim- —  elimination of 2,000 Border Patrol agents.  That’s what
that act would have done. 

We were very direct about that.  We were very clear about that.  This is
what they touted.  This is what they put out there.  This is what House
Republicans voted for.  I mean, that’s where they are. 

They have gotten in the way.  Every time we are trying to deal with the
border, House Republicans have gotten in the way. 

So, we appreciate the bipartisan conversation that we’re having with
Republicans — let’s not forget — with Republicans in the Senate — that’s
why it’s bipartisan — and Democrats on dealing with the border — the
border. 

House Republicans get in the way.  They wanted to literally eliminate
2,000 Border Patrol agents in this particular act that they touted, that
they voted for back in May.

Q    So, notwithstanding all of the factchecks on that, if you’re saying
that, you know, the White House, the President doesn’t want to, you
know, insult the American people, will the administration, then, amend
its separate statement that implied that Texas officials were
responsible for the deaths of three migrants, when, in fact, they had
nothing to do with it?  They had already been dead for an hour by the
time Mexico told anyone in the U.S. about it.  And the administration
admitted as much in their court filing.  They — they acknowledged that
in their court filing. 

But the statement from the White House implies that Texas was
responsible.  And a number of outlets were forced to issue corrections
and editor’s notes because of that White House statement.  So, will the
White House amend that statement?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, let’s be sensitive here.  Three people died. 
Three migrants died: two children and a woman.  That was devastating —
devastating situation, heartbreaking situation.  So, let’s be really
mindful of what we’re talking about here.

Q    Of course.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I want to take a step back and — and just, as you’re
talking about our statement — look, as I — as I mentioned, a woman and
two children died.  They drowned near Eagle Pass — which is, as I said,
devastating — and that Texas officials blocked Border Patrol from
access- — accessing the area.  That’s what was happening at that time.

Our statement is consistent with DOJ’s filing.  As the DOJ filing said,
there was an ongoing emergency situation that Border Patrol was blocked
from accessing.  There were other migrants in the — in the water as
well.

Q    That was separate, though.  The ongoing emergency situation —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  But I’m just saying there was —

Q    — was separate.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — there was an ongoing —

Q    And the —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  But —

Q    The White House statement implied — it says — the White House
statement says that Texas officials blocked U.S. Border Patrol from
attempting to provide emergency assistance.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  To — there were other — there were other migrants in
the water as well.

Q    Then why wasn’t that included in the statement —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  There were other migrants in the water. 

Q    — that that — that that’s what you were referring to?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Our — our statement is the — is ver- –very much
consistent with DOJ filing.  Anything else specific you want to know
about that, I would certainly refer you to DOJ.

AIDE:  Time for a couple more.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Go ahead, Peter.

Q    Three college students — Palestinian college students — were shot
in Vermont in November.  I know you’re aware of that.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    Nearly two months have passed since that time.  They’re speaking
out publicly now for the first time.  Has President Biden or this White
House spoken to those individuals or their families in the period since?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  First of all, obviously, we — we offered up our — you
know, our — our sympathies and, obviously, were devastated to hear about
this.  And it’s — glad to hear that they have — they are recovering.

We don’t have any — any readouts to give you on any conversation that
we’ve had with these three students.

Q    I guess the question would be: The President, obviously, and other
members of the White House have spoken with regularity with those who
have been held hostage in Gaza.  Recognizing the circumstances are very
different, nonetheless, the White House does reach out to individuals of
all sorts of communities, certainly marginalized communities, in
circumstances not too dissimilar from this.  So, why wouldn’t the White
House reach out to these individuals?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  It’s — it’s a very good question.  I just don’t have —
it could have happened.  I just don’t have a readout to share with you
at this time.

Q    Even without a readout, can you just confirm to the press corps at
some point if it did happen so we can be accurate?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Absolutely.

Q    And if it didn’t, just let us know.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Absolutely.  Happy to let you know.  But I — it’s hard
for me to say — to confirm or not —

Q    Okay.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — if they — if they read it out —

Q    We’ll wait for your confirmation either way.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Absolutely.  Thanks, Peter.

Q    Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Appreciate that. 

Okay.  I think I have one more that I can go to.

Q    Afghanistan, please.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Owen.  I haven’t called on you in a while. 
Way in the back.

Q    Karine, good afternoon.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Good afternoon.

Q    Is the — by any chance, is the White House following the trial in
Hong Kong of pro-democracy advocate Jimmy Lai?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, the U.S. strongly condemns the prosecution of
pro-democracy advocate and media owner Jimmy Lai in Hong Kong under the
PRC-imposed National Security Law.  The U.S. renews our call for the
immediate and unconditional release of Jimmy Lai, who has been in prison
under Hong Kong’s National Security Law. 

The United States will continue to closely monitor developments with
this and other prosecutions under the National Security Law. 

Q    If he’s convicted — many call this a sham trial and, you know, that
his conviction will — is virtually guaranteed from the outset.  And he’s
still got weeks to go in this trial.  But if he’s — if he’s convicted —
I know you’re — I know you don’t have a crystal ball, but what will the
President do in that likelihood? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t want to get into hypotheticals from here.  We
just condemned — I just very forcefully, strongly condemned the
prosecution of — of Jimmy Lai.  And so, we’re going to continue to do
that.  And obviously, we’re going to monitor the situation closely.

I just don’t want to get it — ahead and getting into hypotheticals or —
or how this is going to turn out.  But obviously, we strongly condemn.

Go ahead, Ed. 

Q    Thanks, Karine.  I want to ask you about —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  This is the last one.

Q    — ships being redirected around the Red Sea.  Freightos tracked
shipping costs and found that the ships going to Europe — the weekly
cost for containers going to Europe are up 386 percent from a yea- —
last October; costs going to North America are up 99 percent.  So, when
does the White House feel like this could start putting pressure on
prices and pass on to the consumer?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, obviously, our national security team here
and our economic teams are — are closely monitoring the — the evolving
situation in the Red Sea.  It’s something that we’re keeping a close —
close eye on.

But what we’ve seen so far is that the impact of the ongoing conflict
has had limited impact on the U.S. supply chains and energy prices. 
Diversions of vessels from the Suez Canal and to the Cape — Cape of —
Cape of Good Hope has not had major impact on availability of products
in the U.S. or capacity at the West Coast ports. 

Again, our teams are going to closely monitor this.  This is our
national security team and also economic team.  We’re going to monitor
this, but we haven’t seen an impact at this time.

Q    And one last one.  Last Friday, the President was at a coffee shop
in Pennsylvania, and he seemed to be surprised that the smoothie was $6
and how expensive it was.  I’m curious, is — so, is the President now
realizing the costs that Americans are bearing?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, when he went over to you all to — to — to
the — to the press corps, he was having a good time, right?  Offered up
to — as you know, offered up to — to buy them coffee.  There was a big
group there, and he made sure everyone got coffee and pastries.  So, I
just want to make that really clear.

Q    But his comment was $6, and “I’ll — I’ll do it anyway.” 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, look, I hear you, and that — let’s not forget
what the trip was about.  The trip was about small businesses, right? 
There have been 6 — 16 million small businesses that have tried — that
have started and filled out for applications.  That’s a big deal.  That
is really important.

What that means is that they have the confidence — small businesses,
folks who are starting them, have the confidence in the economy to start
a business.  And that is — I think that’s also really important too. And
the President was able to do this or — we’ve seen Americans able to
start — file for applications to start small businesses because of the
American Rescue Plan.  By the way, no Republican voted for that.  And
so, it’s gotten the — it’s gotten the economy back on its feet and also
given the confidence for small-business owners to start — right? — for
people to start a small business.  Sixteen million applications that we
have seen.  
  
     And so, I think that’s important.  And look, you know, Republicans
don’t want to do that, right?  They don’t — they’re — they’re not
interested in that at all.  They’re not interested in fighting Big
Pharma.  They’re not interested in making sure that we’re lowering —
lowering healthcare costs for the Americans.   
  
     They’re not interested in that.  That’s why they didn’t vote for
the Inflation Reduction Act.  That’s why they didn’t vote for the
American Rescue Plan.  And so, that was the — that was the — the point
and the important part of the President going there to — to Allentown. 
And I think it was a good trip.  And you all saw that.  
  
     Q    But he still seemed surprised that the cost was so
expensive.  
  
     MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  He was joking around.  He was certainly joking
around with the press corps.  He — you — you know that.  He offered to
buy coffee — that’s what he did — and pastries.   
  
     But I think the most important thing about that trip is that he was
able to visit a small business.  He was able to talk about how this
administration, because of Bidenomics, because of the economic policies
that we put forward — that we are seeing now a historic number of
small-business applications.  And I think that’s important.  They have
the confidence now — they have the confidence now to start their small
business.  
  
     Thanks, everybody.  We’ll see you out on the road in North Carolina
tomorrow.  Thanks, everybody.  
  
     Q    Thanks, Karine.

\###
