---
date: '2024-01-27'
published_time: 2024-01-27 13:03:23-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/01/27/background-press-call-on-apnsa-jake-sullivans-meeting-with-foreign-minister-wang-yi-of-the-peoples-republic-of-china/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Background Press Call on APNSA Jake Sullivan\u2019s Meeting with Foreign Minister\
  \ Wang Yi of the People\u2019s Republic of\_China"
---
 
National Security Council

Via Teleconference

10:31 A.M. EST

MODERATOR: Good morning, everyone. And thank you for joining us on a
Saturday morning.

Quickly, to go over ground rules, this call will be embargoed until the
conclusion of the call. It’s attributable to a senior administration
official.

For awareness but not for reporting, joining us on today’s call is
\[senior administration official\]. And with that, I will waste no time
and I will hand it over to \[senior administration official\].

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: Thanks so much. And, folks, thanks for
giving up part of your Sunday mor- — or Saturday morning for this.

I wanted to give you a bit of a readout of the National Security
Advisor’s meeting with Chinese Communist Party Politburo Member Director
Wang Yi — and Foreign Minister — Wang Yi.

The two met over 12 hours over two days, here in Bangkok. The discussion
built on the candid and constructive meetings we’ve had not only in this
channel, but also between President Biden and President Xi Jinping in
Woodside, California, in November 2023.

The last meeting between Mr. Sullivan and Director Wang took place
October 2023 in Washington, D.C. And I think altogether now, this is the
fourth meeting in this channel with Director Wang but the eighth meeting
between directors and national security advisors. As folks will
remember, the previous incumbent of the role was Yang Jiechi. And Jake
Sullivan often met frequently with that individual too.

This quite low-profile channel between the National Security Advisor and
Director Wang is an important way to manage competition and tensions
responsibly. The two-day format of these meetings, which is what we’ve
done in every case, allows us to dive deeply into substance and have a
strategic, thoughtful conversation about the direction of the
relationship and key issues both countries face.

The two sides are committed to continuing this strategic channel of
communication and agree to pursue additional channels of communication
not just at the cabinet level, visits in both directions, but also a
telephone call between the two leaders at some point in the coming
months.

We’ve said this before, but it bears repeating, that U.S. diplomacy,
these channels of communication, do not indicate a change in approach on
the PRC. Mr. Sullivan underscored during the meeting that the United
States and the PRC are in competition but that the United States does
not seek conflict or confrontation, and there are areas of cooperation
in the relationship.

During the meeting, Mr. Sullivan and Director Wang took stock of
progress on key issues following the Woodside summit, including resuming
military-to-military communication, advancing bilateral counternarcotics
cooperation, and addressing AI safety and risks.

The United States and the PRC will launch a working group on
counternarcotics, as agreed by the two leaders, on January 30th. I think
we’ll have some more details and an announcement for you on that
tomorrow.

On military-to-military channels, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of
Staff, General Brown, held a virtual meeting with his counterpart on
December 21. And the Defense Policy Coordination Talks, essentially a
communication mechanism at DOD with their Ministry of Defense
counterparts, took place in early January.

As next steps, we look forward to the Military Maritime Consultative
Agreement meetings sometime this spring, as well as communications
between theater commanders and at the minister or secretary level in the
coming months.

On AI, both sides reiterated their interest in discussing emerging
challenges such as safety and risks posed by advanced forms of AI. We
also discussed next steps towards the U.S.-China dialogue on this issue.
We expect to hold it sometime in the spring; don’t have a date for you
yet on that.

Mr. Sullivan underscored continued concern with the PRC’s unfair trade
policies, non-market economic practices, and retaliatory actions against
U.S. firms.

He reiterated President Biden’s commitments — or, rather, comments to
President Xi that the U.S. will continue to take actions to prevent
advanced U.S. technologies from being used to undermine our own national
security but that we are focused on de-risking, not decoupling. And our
approach remains a small yard, high fence — that is we’re focused on the
narrow band of technologies that are the most advanced and present
military challenges.

The two sides welcomed ongoing communication on this issue in economic
channels, including between Secretary Yellen and Secretary Raimondo and
their counterparts.

Mr. Sullivan raised other specific issues in the bilateral relationship
where we have differences. None of these would surprise you; they’re
issues we consistently raise in conversations with PRC counterparts.

The two sides also discussed important global and regional security
issues, including Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, the Middle East
including the Red Sea, DPRK, the South China Sea, and, of course, Burma.

They discussed cross-Strait issues. Mr. Sullivan reiterated that the
United States remains committed to our One China policy guided by the
Taiwan Relations Act, Three Communiqués, and Six Assurances. He
indicated the U.S. opposes unilateral changes to the status quo from
either side, that we do not support Taiwan independence, and that we
expect cross-Strait differences to be resolved peacefully.

The two sides, as I mentioned before, discussed additional high-level
diplomacy between the United States, and we’re committed to continuing
consultation in key areas through the mechanisms that we’ve announced
previously.

I’ll stop there, and happy to answer any questions you might have.

MODERATOR: With that, we’ll open it up to questions.

We’ll go to Trevor Hunnicutt with Reuters first.

Q Hey, thanks so much for doing the call. Two questions. Just curious if
there was any specific date for the Biden-Xi call beyond the coming
months.

And then also, I was wondering if you could give a little bit more
detail around the conversation on Iran and its support for the Houthis,
whether China had made any progress in terms of convincing Iran to
change its support for the Houthis. Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: Thanks so much. On the phone call, I
don’t have a date for you yet, but we’re expecting it to take place this
spring, some point in the coming months. This leader-level channel is
absolutely critical to maintaining direction in the relationship and
following up on some of the issues from Woodside. So, I think important
that both sides go ahead with this. And, of course, at Woodside the two
leaders discussed maintaining communication through telephone calls.

On the Red Sea, we certainly underscored that Iran continues to take
irresponsible actions that exacerbate regional tensions and instability,
including by supporting the Houthis’ attacks against civilian ships in
the Red Sea. Mr. Sullivan raised the importance of Beijing using its
substantial leverage with Iran to call for an end and bring an end to
these dangerous attacks.

You know, we certainly — this is not the first time we’ve called on
China to play a constructive role. Beijing says they are raising this
with the Iranians, and I think you’ve seen that reflected in some of the
press reporting. But we’re certainly going to wait to see results before
we comment further on how effective we think — or whether we think
they’re actually raising it.

MODERATOR: Next, we’ll go to Michelle Jamrisko with Bloomberg.

Q Hi, yes, Michelle from Bloomberg. Thanks for doing this. I just wanted
to ask on the fentanyl piece. In previous discussions and previous
rounds of trying to negotiate around this with China, there wasn’t —
seemed to be much change in what they were doing. I’m wondering what
kinds of measures may have been discussed in terms of holding them to
account for delivering on the sort of cooperation on counternarcotics.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: Sure. Great question.

I think we briefed on some of this back — right after the Woodside
summit, so I’m going to pull from some of those discussions.

So when we announced the restart of the counternarcotics working group
last November, that was a company that (inaudible) by actions the
Chinese side took, including releasing a notice to their precursor
chemical — actually their entire chemical industry — about trafficking
in precursor chemicals to the United States. It listed out potential
criminal liability. Specific, I think it included DEA’s list of
chemicals of concern, called for additional scrutiny on pill presses and
equipment.

So that notice that was sent out to the chemical companies, we’ve
already seen tangible impact on the ground. China has moved to shut down
a number of companies and operations that were trafficking in the
illicit chemicals and precursors.

We have also seen, we understand, reductions in precursor chemicals
seized at some U.S. airports, originating from China. So we are already
starting to see immediate impact.

However, this type of cooperation, because of the nature of the drug
trade, really needs to be continuous and ongoing. It’s not just one
snapshot in time. So our goal is to use this counternarcotics working
group, which will include participation from a broad cross-section of
agencies on our part, to really ensure that what we’re doing is
iterative, that we’re continuing to share information on cases on
particular points of origin of these precursor chemicals.

MODERATOR: Next, we’ll go to Nike Ching with Voice of America.

Q Good morning. Thank you so much for the call briefing. On South China
Sea, how was this issue being discussed? And how worried is the United
States that escalating tensions between the People’s Republic of China
and the Philippines over South China Sea may trigger a conflict in the
Indo-Pacific?

And separately, if I may, was there a discussion on a potential trip by
Secretary of State Antony Blinken this year to Beijing?

And finally, how was Burma discussed? How does the United States assess
the Chinese influence over the junta to put an end to the conflict?
Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: Thanks for those questions.

First, on South China Sea, Mr. Sullivan underscored the importance the
United States places on the South China Sea, that we remain committed to
promoting freedom of navigation and overflights, respect for
international law, and the peaceful resolution of disputes in the South
China Sea, in close coordination, of course, with our allies and
partners, namely Philippines, in the case you’re mentioning.

I think diplomacy plays an important part of that peaceful resolution of
disputes. We support ongoing diplomacy between the two parties there.
And I’ll leave it at that for now.

You asked about Burma as well. Of course, while he was in Thailand, Mr.
Sullivan also met the Thai prime minister and deputy prime minister and
foreign minister. In those meetings, he discussed Burma, as well — the
efforts to address the worsening crisis there; discussed the importance
of providing humanitarian assistance to the people of Burma; welcomed
efforts to advance meaningful implementation of the ASEAN Five-Point
Consensus.

In his follow-up, then, with Director Wang Yi the following day, you
know, I think it’s fair to say that China certainly does have influence
in that region. But Mr. Sullivan and Director Wang discussed the ongoing
crisis, and we hope to have follow-up discussions at lower level in the
coming weeks and months, given the need to really remain focused on
promoting a return to the path of democratic transition in Burma.

You asked one more question, which somehow has — oh, Blinken’s travel.
We didn’t discuss specific dates, and I would refer you to the
Department of State for any conversations on that. But we do expect at
some point that Secretary Blinken would make another trip this year.
That channel is incredibly important. And, of course, Secretary Blinken
was the first Cabinet official last year to travel to China, and his
counterpart has since traveled to the United States on a reciprocal
visit. So it would be up for him to return to Beijing at some point
soon.

MODERATOR: Next, we’ll go to Sangho Song with Yonhap News.

Q Thank you for doing this. You briefly mentioned the two sides also
discussed the DPRK, so can you elaborate on that? Was there any
discussion, ongoing concerns about the (inaudible) rhetoric and weapons
tests, and cooperation between Russia and North Korea and China’s role
vis-à-vis North Korea (inaudible)? Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: Yeah, thanks for that question.

Yes, the two sides did discuss DPRK. I think we are deeply concerned — I
know we are deeply concerned about the recent testing of weapons. We are
deeply concerned about the growing relationship between Russia and the
DPRK and what that might mean for Mr. Kim’s intentions. We raised those
concerns directly with China, given their influence on Pyongyang.

And we hope these discussions will continue further between our two
envoys. For example, I think the Chinese just sent their vice foreign
minister to Pyongyang this week, if I’m not mistaken. So our next step
would be a call between our envoy and the vice foreign minister upon his
return.

MODERATOR: And our last question will go to Demetri with the FT.

Q Thanks. Good morning. So, two questions. Again, on North Korea, can
you give us a sense of is China actually playing a constructive role?
Because it seems to be they haven’t been doing very much recently. Is
that changing?

And secondly, on Iran, can you just give us a sense of where you think
China has leverage over Iran and where might they not have leverage? I
mean, how much leverage do they have and why?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: Thanks for the question, Demetri.

On DPRK, I’m not sure I would characterize anything recently as
constructive. Russia certainly has a growing role there and growing
influence. But certainly, Beijing certainly maintains influence as well.
And I think our expectation would be that they have to use that to bring
us back to the path of denuclearization.

On Iran, you know, China is one of, I think, Iran’s largest trading
partners, obviously buys substantial quantities of Iranian oil. I think
we would characterize both the economic and trade relationship as giving
it leverage — as giving Beijing leverage over Iran to some extent. How
they choose to use that, of course, is China’s choice. But Iran’s
influence over the Houthis and the Houthis’ destabilization of global
shipping raises serious concerns, not just for the U.S. and China but
for global trade.

So, again, I think there should be a clear interest in China in terms of
quiet some of those attacks. But whether it chooses to use that leverage
in that way, I think that remains to be seen.

Q And you’ve been talking to Iran — to China about Iran for a couple of
months. Have you seen any indications that they’re playing ball in a
positive way?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: We’ve seen in public press reporting,
and it mirrors what the Chinese are telling us directly, that they are
raising it with Iran. But, you know, I think we’re looking to actually
facts on the ground, and those attacks seem to be continuing.

I’ll leave it there for now.

MODERATOR: That concludes our call. Thank you all for joining us. You
can anticipate that a transcript of the call will be out later today.
Thank you.

10:49 A.M. EST
