---
date: '2024-01-28'
published_time: 2024-01-28 15:35:28-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/01/28/background-press-call-on-the-counternarcotics-working-group-trip-to-beijing/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Background Press Call on the Counternarcotics Working Group Trip to\_Beijing"
---
 
8:05 A.M. EST  
  
MODERATOR:  Good morning, everybody.  Thanks for joining us on a Sunday
morning.  
  
Just to go over the ground rules quick, the call will be embargoed until
the conclusion of the call.  It’s attributable to senior administration
officials.  
  
For awareness, but not for reporting, joining us on today’s call are
\[senior administration official\] and \[senior administration
official\].   
  
With that, I’m going to waste no time.  I’m just going to hand it right
over to \[senior administration official\].  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks, \[moderator\].  And thanks,
everybody, for joining this morning.  \[Redacted\] to be leading the
counternarcotics working group meeting that is going to be taking place
on the 30th of January.   
  
I think as everybody knows on this call, President Biden has made
beating the overdose epidemic a key priority in his Unity Agenda for the
nation, including a focus on cracking down on global illicit drug
trafficking and disrupting the flow of illicit fentanyl and its
precursors.  
  
And as part of that effort, we are focused on pursuing all avenues to
effectively reduce the flow of precursor chemicals that fuel the
manufacture and distribution of synthetic drugs, including fentanyl.   
  
And I don’t think I have to tell anybody here that 100,000 people a year
die in the United States from fentanyl overdoses.  More people in the
United States between the ages of 18 and 49 die from fentanyl than any
other cause.   
  
As all of you also know, for years bilateral cooperation between the
United States and the People’s Republic of China on counternarcotics has
been suspended, which has hindered our progress.  But that changed
during the November 15th meeting between President Biden and President
Xi Jinping at Woodside, California.  
  
At that meeting, the leaders announced the resumption of bilateral
cooperation on counternarcotics with a focus on reducing the flow of
precursor chemicals that fuel illicit fentanyl and synthetic drug
production.   
  
And so, we are announcing — this is an announcement to say that that
first meeting is happening on January 30th.  It will take place in
Beijing.  This is a key part of the implementation of the resumption of
our bilateral cooperation on this effort.   
  
The working group is a whole-of-government effort.  It includes a
delegation from DOJ, DHS, State, and Treasury.  And it is a platform for
ongoing coordination to support concrete enforcement actions with the
goal of countering the evolving threat of synthetic drugs and to address
the supply and distribution of precursor chemicals and pill presses to
those who manufacture and distribute these deadly substances.   
  
As I said, \[redacted\] going to be heading the delegation.  We will
also be joined by:  

-   Rob Silvers, who’s the Under Secretary for Strategy, Policy, and
    Plans at the Department of Homeland Security;
-   Anne Milgram, the Administrator of the Drug Enforcement
    Administration;
-   Troy Miller, who is the Senior Official Performing the Duties of the
    Commissioner of Customs and Border Protection at the Department of
    Homeland Security;
-   Todd Robinson, the Assistant Secretary at the Bureau of
    International Narcotics and Law Enforcement;
-   Scott Rembrandt, the Deputy Assistant Secretary at the Office of
    Strategy Policy in the Office of Terrorist Financing and Financial
    Crimes at the Department of Treasury;
-   Bruce Swartz, the Deputy Assistant Attorney General and DOJ
    Counselor for International Affairs at the Department of Justice; 
-   Katrina Berger.  She is the head of Homeland Security
    Investigations;
-   And Vance Morgan from the White House’s Office of National Drug
    Control Policy. 

And through this interagency working group, the United States will
pursue a range of efforts across law enforcement actions, efforts to
institute precursor chemical controls, monitor emerging front trends,
counter illicit finance, and coordinate with other partners to help
disrupt the global illicit drug supply chain.   
  
We also think that this working group is so important because it
provides the enduring architecture that will help us continue the
coordination and the communication that will allow us to help verify
what progress we are making and to continue to push for new progress as
time goes on.   
  
That said, this working group is, as I said, I think a really critical
and pivotal moment for our direct diplomacy and the implementation on
this issue.  It’s by far not the only marker of progress.  And our
working-level officials from U.S. departments and agencies and PRC
ministries meet regularly in Beijing and the United States and continue
to do so on a quite regular basis to make progress on the commitments
that President Biden and President Xi made and to share information to
reduce the flow of precursor chemicals.   
  
I will stop there and, \[moderator\], turn it back to you.  
  
MODERATOR:  Great.  I think with that, we’ll go ahead and open it up to
questions.  
  
Our first question is going to go to Cate Cadell with the Washington
Post.  
  
Q    Thank you very much for doing this on a Sunday morning.  I just
want to start by asking: Are you going to come into these meetings with
any specific outcome in mind?   
  
And also, Chinese officials who sort of repeatedly indicate that they
feel that it’s the U.S.’s own inability to crack down on the fentanyl
supply in the U.S., I mean, what is your read on how willing they are to
make any major changes at home?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks for that.  Maybe I’ll take the
first question — part of the question, \[senior administration
official\], on PRC actions — and then turn it over to you for the asks,
if that makes sense.   
  
Look, I think, as \[senior administration official\] had mentioned,
counternarcotics cooperation has been stalled for quite a number of
years.  Immediately, though, after the two presidents met last November,
China issued a notice to its domestic chemical industry, advising on the
enforcement of laws and regulations related to trade and precursor
chemicals.  This essentially is a notice putting their companies — their
chemical companies on notice that they will start to take law
enforcement action if there’s trade in these precursor chemicals.   
  
A similar notice to industry that China sent out in 2019 led to a
drastic reduction in seizures of fentanyl shipments to the United States
from China.  And so, our expectation is that we’ll start to see the same
happen in this precursor chemical industry as well.   
  
In addition, we have information that the PRC started taking action
against Chinese synthetic drug and chemical precursor suppliers right
around the time of the summit and in the following months.  So we saw
companies shut down.  We saw international payment accounts blocked. 
And this really is the first law enforcement action against synthetic
drug-related chemical sellers by Chinese authorities since 2017.   
  
In addition, in November of last year after the two presidents met, for
the first time in nearly three years China submitted 145 incidents to
the International Narcotics Control Board Global Database.  This is the
mechanism used to share real-time information internationally about
things like shipments and suspected trafficking.   
  
And this information — our hope is that it will help global law
enforcement agencies identify trends and conduct intelligence-driven
investigations that disrupt illicit synthetic drug supply chains.   
  
And again, we’re starting to see reductions in seizures of precursors at
some U.S. airports already.  I think the nature of the drug trade means
that we can’t just rest on the laurels of this set of actions that
happened right after the summit.  The hope is that — and our goal is
that we use this working group to drive continued progress.  As the drug
trade evolves, as we see these chemicals come online, we’ll need to
continue that coordination with Chinese authorities to ensure they’re
acting on those new trends and new developments in the drug trade.   
  
But let me stop there after addressing, again, the Chinese actions and
turn it back over to \[senior administration official\] for our
expectations coming out of the working group.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  \[Senior administration official\], I
think you said it perfectly.  A big goal of this is continued pressure,
continued dialogue, ensuring that we continue to push and encourage
joint law enforcement actions, that we open up and improve our dialogue
on illicit financing, that we continue to maintain communication about
new chemicals as they come online, and that we set up robust
information-sharing mechanisms for that communication to happen, and to
continue to encourage the PRC to continue to submit information about
chemicals to the U.N., as \[senior administration official\] just
indicated.   
  
And so, we are coming in with goals of furthering the work that has
already started in very concrete and specific ways.  
  
MODERATOR:  Great.  Our next question will go to Christina Anderson.  
  
Q    Thank you for taking my question.  So, I’m wondering: What’s to
stop them from instead of shipping directly to the U.S., shipping via
third countries so that they can sort of evade the whole mechanism?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks for the question.  I’ll take a
stab at it.  
  
I think what \[senior administration official\] described and what we’ve
seen is actions with respect to the companies as a whole, which is not
specific to them shipping to the United States but it is specific to the
companies that supply and distribute regardless of where the chemicals
go.   
  
And so, certainly our expectation and our ask and part of our continued
dialogue will be to try to ensure that exactly what you’re talking about
does not happen.  That would not be consistent with the goals of what
we’re trying to achieve here.  
  
MODERATOR:  Next, we’ll go to Demetri with the FT.  
  
Q    Morning.  Thank you.  Two questions.  First, is China having a
parallel discussion with Mexico?  Or do you have any kind of trilateral
discussions with the U.S., Mexico, and China?  
  
And then separately, is there anything that China is not doing right now
that you want them to do?  Because it sounds like they’ve started the
progress, but are there things that they’re reluctant to do that you
want them to do?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks, Demetri.  I can take the first
part and then turn it over to \[senior administration official\] to
address parts of it.   
  
Certainly, we know that China has started some conversations with the
Mexicans on this.  I think I’d refer to you to either the Mexican or
Chinese government to content — or comment on the content of those.   
  
But certainly, this is a problem that affects multiple different
countries.  I think the President and Secretary Blinken have both said
there are two kinds of countries: those that have a fentanyl problem and
know it and those that have a fentanyl problem and don’t know it, that
it’s so quickly spreading.   
  
So this is going to have to be an issue that goes beyond just the U.S.,
China, Mexico, Canada.  It will have to be an issue that is addressed
globally as well.  And that’s our hope through some of the mechanisms
that we have set up.  
  
In terms of what China is doing, I think — you know, our initial ask
coming out of this summit, as we discussed back then, was really the
notice to companies to start focusing in on precursor chemicals, where
they were going, know your customer, better labeling, disruption of
financial transactions or specific company operations that we knew and
we had passed information to the Chinese on, and we’ve seen that
happen.   
  
And I think the next step — again, to \[senior administration
official\]’s point — is really, as we see that trade continue to evolve,
there are going to be new companies of concern that pop up.  The goal is
to use these law enforcement-to-law enforcement mechanisms to pass that
information and ensure that there’s action and follow-up.  That’ll have
to be — that’s not a one-time ask; that is a continual process, I
think.   
  
And then I think on the “know your customer” piece, that will be a big
part of conversations as well.  Proper labeling, ensuring that there’s
not diversion of some of these dual-use chemicals to cartels and other
customers that are known bad actors.   
  
So, again, I think our hope is, in this working group, that we can
really start to dig into the specifics.  This is such a complicated
problem.  It’s not one that you can use one summit, you know, get
action, and then consider it done.  
  
The fentanyl listing back in 2017 was very different because, you know,
it was one drug, and that one listing was able to really shut down the
trade.  The precursor chemicals is just such a much more difficult
problem to solve.  
  
\[Senior administration official\], back to you.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yep, what \[senior administration
official\] just said was very comprehensive.  I would just add a couple
of things.  
  
One, in addition to seeking a situation where the PRC is responsive and
acts upon information that we pass to them, I think, ultimately, we’d
like to get to a place where the PRC is able to themselves identify and
take action with respect to bad actors or actors that are clearly acting
in ways that are concerning.  So, for example, chemical companies that
are advertising and selling very large numbers of chemicals that we know
have very limited commercial value, or as \[senior administration
official\] said, companies that are doing bulk shipping by using
pre-printed labels and in ways that are kind of clear triggers of
certain kinds of deceptive practices.   
  
So a big ask of this trip is to encourage independent action as well.  
  
And then, just on the Mexico point, I will — I just wanted to add that I
think — I’m sure you also know the United States has a trilateral
working group with Canada and Mexico on fentanyl-related issues.  And we
have been closely, you know, encouraging and monitoring the
conversations that are happening between Mexico and the PRC as well. 
And I think it’s, as I said, really important that this is a
multilateral issue, and it’s important that all affected nations are
engaged in communicating with one another about the scope of the
problem.  
  
Q    Can I just get one clarification?  At the moment, is China only
acting when it receives information from the U.S., or is it
independently finding that information domestically and acting on that,
and then telling the U.S.?  Or is it both?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  There is a combination of those
things.  As \[senior administration official\] said, we would like to
see more of all of it.  
  
Q    Thank you.   
  
MODERATOR:  All right.  And it looks like that is our last question. 
So, with that, we’ll conclude the call.  Thank you all.  
  
8:23 A.M. EST
