---
date: '2024-01-03'
published_time: 2024-01-03 18:02:22-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/01/03/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-nsc-coordinator-for-strategic-communications-john-kirby-36/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and NSC Coordinator for\
  \ Strategic Communications John\_Kirby"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

2:10 P.M. EST

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Look at this. Packed room. Happy New Year, everybody.

Q Happy New Year.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: It’s so good to see everyone. Welcome back. 2024, here
we come.

And with that — we are just 16 days away from parts of the government
shutting down. Sixteen days away. Sixteen.

Instead of doing their jobs, House Republicans left Washington in the
middle of December. And they’re not back until next week.

The American people want Congress to work with the President to take
care and work on real issues — real issues that matter in their lives.
That’s what the American people want to see.

But instead of entering this year with a new approach to deliver for the
American people, House Republicans are prioritizing baseless impeachment
stunts. In fact, earlier today, House Republicans said, and I quote,
“We’ll shut the government down. We control the money.”

It’s been 13 weeks since the first government funding deadline and more
than 6 weeks since they kicked the can down the road for a second time.
It’s time for House Republicans to get serious, do their jobs, and
deliver for the American people.

It shouldn’t be hard to fund the government. It is truly their basic,
basic duty. So, they should get to work.

And now, we’re joined, as you see, with — by my — by my colleague,
Admiral John Kirby, who is here to discuss the recent attacks by the
Houthis and the developments in the Middle East. We haven’t seen you all
in a couple — in a while, so I know he’s going to do a little bit of a
laydown.

Admiral, the podium is yours.

MR. KIRBY: Afternoon, everybody.

Q Good afternoon.

MR. KIRBY: As Karine said, it’s been a little bit of a while here since
we’ve had a chance to talk, so I just wanted to give you a laydown of
where things stand in the Middle East.

Over the holidays, the President received regular updates from his
National Security Advisor, Mr. Sullivan, as well as the national
security team. And as you all know, he had the chance to speak again
with Prime Minister Netanyahu.

Yesterday, Mr. Sullivan held a phone call with Israel’s Minister of
Strategic Affairs, Ron Dermer, where they discussed ongoing Israeli
military operations and ongoing efforts to see if we can secure the
release of the remaining hostages.

The United States remains focused on working with a range of partners to
help Israel defend itself, to surge humanitarian assistance to civilians
in Gaza, and, of course, to defend our national security interests in
the region.

That most certainly includes protecting the free flow of international
commerce in the Red Sea.

To accomplish these goals, we have established and will continue to
maintain a significant force presence in the Middle East.

This includes an aircraft carrier strike group, centered around the USS
Dwight D. Eisenhower, with its embarked air wing of some 80 aircraft, as
well as an amphibious ready group, with its embarked 26th Marine
Expeditionary Unit.

That amphibious ready group, led by the assault ship USS Bataan, was
moved into the Eastern Mediterranean in recent days, coinciding with the
departure of the aircraft carrier Gerald R. Ford.

Now, between the Bataan and the two other ships of her group, the USS
Mesa Verde and the USS Carter Hall, this consolidates in that part of
the Mediterranean more than 4,000 sailors and marines and more than 50
aircraft.

An amphibious ready group with an embarked Marine expeditionary unit is
capable of a wide range of operations and, because it is sea-based,
remains a highly flexible option to any Commander-in-Chief when it comes
to the potential use of force.

These ships and their Marines are augmented by three additional
squadrons of fighter and attack aircraft that are based ashore and
additional highly capable warships at sea, including a number of
destroyers that are specifically designed for ballistic missile defense.

Some of those warships are operating in the Red Sea, where they —
alongside the ships, aircraft, and capabilities of more than 20 other
nations — continue to counter Houthi attacks on civilian maritime
shipping. You’ve all seen in the last few — a couple of days what these
ships have been able to do in terms of knocking things out of the sky.

All told, these U.S. and coalition ships and aircraft contribute to an
impressive array — I’m sorry — impressive air and missile defense
capability, as well as robust intelligence, surveillance, and
reconnaissance capabilities, not to mention offensive and defensive
military power.

As the President has made clear, the United States does not seek
conflict with any nation or actor in the Middle East, nor do we want to
see the war between Israel and Hamas widen in the region. But neither
will we shrink from the task of defending ourselves, our interests, our
partners, or the free flow of international commerce.

That’s why, earlier today, we released a joint statement alongside 12 —
I’m sorry — 11 countries condemning Houthi attacks on commercial vessels
in the Red Sea — one of the world’s most critical waterways — and
reiterating that these attacks must cease immediately. And just after we
released that statement, Singapore came on board, so now there’s 13
nations that have signed up to that statement.

As we have made clear, these actions directly threaten freedom of
navigation and global trade and they put innocent lives at risk.

This joint statement demonstrates the resolve of global partners against
these unlawful attacks and underlines our commitment to holding malign
actors accountable for their actions.

Lastly, as you’ve seen, now in — in addition to this release — well, I
think that’s it.

I’ll take questions, sorry. (Laughter.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead, Darlene.

Q Thank you. I wanted to ask about Iran. Does the United States have any
idea of who might be behind the bombings there today?

And secondly, does the U.S. think the killing of the Hamas leader in
Beirut has significantly changed the strength of Hamas?

MR. KIRBY: So, on your first question, we aren’t at a point now where we
have a lot of great detail on — on this bombing. Certainly, our — our
hearts go out to all the innocent victims and their family members, who
are — obviously, their lives are going to be forever changed by this.
But we don’t have any — we don’t have any more detail in terms of how it
happened or who would — might be responsible for it.

On your second question, again, I would point you to — to our Israeli
partners to talk more about this. We’re — we’re, again, not in a
position to confirm the specific reports.

I would just tell you that al-Arouri was a noted designated global
terrorist. And if he is, in fact, dead, nobody should be shedding a tear
over his loss.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead, Mary.

Q Thanks. I know you said you don’t have any great detail on who was
responsible, but can you rule out that Israel had anything to do with
this?

MR. KIRBY: We have no indication at this time at all that Israel was
involved in any way whatsoever.

Q No indication, but just to be clear: You don’t think — did they
support or assist in — in some other way?

MR. KIRBY: I would — I’m not going to speak for another nation. I would
just tell you that we have no indication that Israel was in any way
involved in this.

Q And given that this was the Soleimani anniversary, did you have any
intelligence that something was being planned for this day?

MR. KIRBY: We certainly had no indications that there would be some sort
of violence surrounding the anniversary of his death.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead.

Q Just to follow up on the — the Lebanon issue. Is there any concern
that that particular strike might expand the conflict regionally?

MR. KIRBY: Well, I would just say, Trevor, everything that we’ve done —
in fact, the laydown I just offered of the force posture changes that
the President has ordered in the region — has been designed to prevent
an escalation or widening or deepening of this conflict.

As we’ve said before, we don’t want to see it widen beyond Israel and
Hamas. And, again, we’re going to keep working with partners in the
region to prevent that from happening.

Q Okay. And then on the Red Sea. You mentioned that joint statement that
came out today and that Singapore has added their names to that as well.

MR. KIRBY: Yeah.

Q But that is just, you know, 13 countries total. That’s smaller than
the — the 44 that — that issued a statement in December. And, you know,
countries that you would think would be on that list, like France, are —
are not. Is there a region — reason why that’s not a broader group of
countries that signed on?

MR. KIRBY: I — hey, first of all, 13 other nations signing up to
language like that — or 13 total nations; 12 others than us — I think,
is significant. Other nations can speak for themselves about their
decision-making with respect to signing on to public statements.

There are, as you know, many nations in — that are assisting us in
Operation Prosperity Guardian in the Red Sea that don’t want to be
public that are contributing capabilities, but they don’t want it
public.

So, I — I think you’re seeing an increasing number of nations around the
world, particularly as commerce in the Red Sea gets affected and
shipping companies are making difficult decisions about whether to
transit the Red Sea and the impact that it’s beginning to — to have on
global commerce. Countries are more and more becoming aware of this
increasing threat to — to the free flow of commerce in the Red Sea by
the — by the Houthis and are increasingly being willing to express their
— their discomfort with that.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead, Peter.

Q John, thanks so much. Is it the White House’s view that the
elimination of Hamas is an attainable goal?

MR. KIRBY: What we’ve said before is — well, first of all, the Israelis
should speak to their military goals. We have said that we absolutely
believe they have the right and responsibility to eliminate the threat
that Hamas poses to the Israeli people.

Now, they have said for themselves, Peter, that the way they’re going
about that is really targeting infrastructure — you know, tunnels and
command and control nodes — as well as leadership. It is not that
unusual or different approach than we took ourselves in places like in
Iraq and Afghanistan going after the leadership network.

Now, you can certainly significantly degrade a terrorist organization’s
ability to operate, train, and conduct attacks by going after its
leadership. You are probably not going to eliminate the ideology which
underpins that group. And we’ve seen that — I — al Qaeda, ISIS, other
groups.

Q So, let me be clear. There is a difference between language the U.S.
has used in the past with the language “degrade” — to try to degrade the
leadership and the ability to attack. So, does the U.S. — just to be
clear, I understand Israel’s role in this — does the U.S. believe the
elimination of Hamas, though, is an attainable goal?

MR. KIRBY: We believe that it is absolutely an attainable goal for the
Israeli military forces to — to degrade and — and defeat Hamas’s
abilities to conduct attacks inside Israel. They — they can — it can be
done militarily.

Are you going to eliminate the ideology? No. And are you likely going to
erase the group from existence? Probably not. But can you eliminate the
threat that Hamas poses to the Israeli people? Absolutely.

Q Okay. Let me ask another question, if I can. We’ve been talking about
the Houthis here. We heard from Maersk and some of these other companies
that — obviously, the big — the — the Danish shipping giant that paused
—

MR. KIRBY: Yeah.

Q — its operations in the Gulf of Aden and in the Red Sea. A lot of
other shipper — shipping companies are either pausing or rerouting right
now.

How concerned is the United States that these shipping companies may be
pausing or trying to find other routes or revisiting that region
altogether right now, given the impact it could have on the United
States in terms of supply chain, inflation, and whatever else?

MR. KIRBY: Well, if we weren’t concerned, we wouldn’t have stood up an
operation in the Red Sea, now consisting of more than 20 nations, to try
to protect that commerce. The Red Sea is a vital waterway. A significant
amount of global trade flows through that Red Sea. And by forcing
nations to go around the Cape of Good Hope, I mean, you’re adding weeks
and weeks onto voyages and untold resources.

Now, expenses have to be applied in order to do that. Plus, it’s just a
more dangerous journey. So, obviously, there is a concern about — about
the — the impact on global commerce.

Q Is the pocketbook issue that Americans could be concerned about, given
the supply chain —

MR. KIRBY: We haven’t seen that effect yet.

Q Is it at risk of being?

MR. KIRBY: It would depend on how long this threat goes and on how much
more energetic the Houthis think that they might become. I mean, right
now, we haven’t seen a — you know, an uptick or a specific effect on the
U.S. economy. But make no mistake: It is a key international waterway,
and it can have an effect on the global economy.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead, Weijia.

Q Thank you, Karine. Thanks, John. To follow up on the eradication of
Hamas. Does the U.S. know how many more members of Hamas are left to
eradicate?

MR. KIRBY: We — we have estimates. I’m loath to put the numbers out
there right now because they are just estimates. But — but Hamas still
has a significant force posture inside Gaza.

Q Is there any way you can characterize the progress that’s been made,
in terms of percentage? Like how — how has Israel done, basically?

MR. KIRBY: (Laughs.) (Inaudible.)

Q If you’re — you know, if it’s their operation —

MR. KIRBY: I’ve been —

Q — obviously you’re keeping track of progress.

MR. KIRBY: I’ve been trying real hard not to give them a report card
here. And I think that’s a wise thing for us to do is to refrain from
analyzing and armchair quarterbacking their military operations.

They themselves have said that they have targeted and been successful
against a range of leadership of Hamas, certainly at the brigade level
and higher. And remember, these guys are organized like a military. It’s
not just some ragtag group of terrorists. I mean, they have a pretty
sophisticated military underpinning and structure to them.

And they’ve gone after quite a bit of those leaders. They’ve gone after
a lot of the midrange and lower-level fighters as well. I think I’m
going to let Israel characterize how they’ve been doing. But they have
without question — let me just say this broadly — they have had an
effect on Hamas’s ability to command and control itself, to resource
itself, and, quite frankly, to lead their troops.

Q And just one quick clarification on the airstrike in Lebanon. Is the
U.S. assessing to try to determine who is responsible for that?

MR. KIRBY: For which — what?

Q The airstrike in Lebanon that killed the Hamas leader.

MR. KIRBY: I’m not aware of any efforts of the United States to assess
that or to analyze that. We certainly weren’t involved in any way
whatsoever.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Anita, go ahead.

Q Thank you so much, John. Moving on to Ukraine. First of all, just your
assessment of what we’ve seen in the last few days. But then also,
there’s a Newsweek report that the U.S. is going to destroy several
hundred, quote, unquote, “expired ATACMS,” which is, of course, a weapon
that President Zelenskyy has asked for specifically. Can you confirm
that? And is it possible that the U.S. could send those to Ukraine? And
would that be a political decision or a military decision?

MR. KIRBY: I cannot confirm those reports. That’s really a better
question put to the Department of Defense.

Q Okay. How about a lay of the land on, in the last few days, where we
are?

MR. KIRBY: I mean, look, just broadly speaking, in the last 48 to 72
hours, you all have seen that Russia continues to launch drone and
missile attacks, including ballistic missile attacks, on — on targets
inside Ukraine, to include not only military targets in Ukraine, but
civilian targets in Ukraine, to continue to try to weaponize winter, to
go after their infrastructure.

I mean, so, for all the ballyhoo that I heard in the last few days about
Mr. Putin in some press reports that he’s all of a sudden willing to
negotiate, he sure doesn’t act like a guy who’s willing to negotiate.
He’s — he’s doing ev- — everything he can to try to put the Ukrainians
on their back feet, which is why it’s so important that the supplemental
funding request that the President put forward gets passed.

We ha- — we have given now Ukraine the last security assistance package
that we have funds to support right be- — right before New Year’s, right
after Christmas. And we’ve got to get support from Congress so we can
continue to do that.

Q I’ve got a quick one on Israel too. South Africa has filed this
84-page lawsuit against Israel, accusing them of genocide. Israel says
that this is blood libel. Does Washington agree? And where does this put
Washington and Pretoria in terms of their relations?

MR. KIRBY: We find this submission meritless, counterproductive, and
completely without any basis in fact whatsoever.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead, Brian.

Q Thanks a lot. John, what’s your — what’s the U.S. assessment of the
larger goal that Israel has set to eradicate Hamas? Is that still
considered to be a realistic and wise military objective?

MR. KIRBY: I think I just answered that with Peter. We don’t believe
that military attacks alone are going to eradicate an ideology. And it’s
not likely that you’re going to get rid of every single Hamas fighter.
So, in that sense, I mean, you still have to — you still have to
reconcile yourself with the fact that there may still be some Hamas
around even when your military operation is over.

That said, what they — what they — they absolutely can do is eradicate
the threat that Hamas poses to the Israeli people. And you can do that
by going after their leadership, you can do that by going after their
infrastructure, you can do that by going after their resource. And we
showed that with respect to ISIS and al Qaeda; it can be done. ISIS and
al Qaeda still exist, but they are nowhere near the kind of threats that
they — that they once posed. So, it can be done militarily.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead, Justin.

Q A couple more on Israel, but maybe this came up on Jake’s call. But do
you guys feel like you have any path forward on Israel’s decision to
withhold tax revenue from the Palestinian Authority?  
And then, do you have any reaction to the supreme court in Israel
striking down the judicial reform package that the Prime Minister put
forward? I know the President has weighed in on it previously.

MR. KIRBY: Yeah, I don’t have any update for you on the tax issue.

And on the judicial reform, we are going to be careful that we don’t
comment on the internal workings of a fellow democracy.

What the President has said before stands today, which is, you know, we
want to see that, as a vibrant democracy, any changes that — any
governance changes that our Israeli counterparts try to pursue are done
with the broadest base of public support possible.

Q And then — sorry, just real quick. Before the break, Karine talked
about a possible regulatory review of the Japanese purchase of U.S.
Steel, but I’m wondering if there’s a national security component to
that review and if NSC or any — if you’re aware of anyone on the
national security side looking into it — looking into —

MR. KIRBY: As far as I know, there’s no updates to that review. And,
obviously, anything like this, I mean, we carefully evaluate the degree
to which there is a national security component, and we — we’ll do that
in this case, but I don’t have an update for you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead, Michael.

Q Thanks. John, can you give us an update on the hostage situation in
Israel and the — kind of the status of the talks with the Qataris and
others to — to move that forward? Is it — is it the U.S. opinion that
it’s, at this point, pretty much stalled? Or is there some hope of, you
know, reviving that in the near future?

MR. KIRBY: Well, there’s always hope. And we’re not going to stop hoping
to try to get all those hostages home.

What I can tell you is that the conversations are ongoing, they’re real,
and we are pursuing them with the same sense of energy that we were, you
know, a month or two ago, when we were able to get some 50 hostages out.

I would tell you that I don’t have any specific progress to report
today, but we’re not going to — we’re not going to stop talking about
it, we’re not going to stop working on it, and we’re not going to stop
engaging our partners.

Q Is there — are there any new talks scheduled with McGurk or anybody
else in the region?

MR. KIRBY: There have been ongoing communications. I mean, I don’t have
anything on Brett’s scheduled to speak to specifically today. I think
you can expect that he will be, as he has been, constantly engaged on
this, as will David Satterfield on the ground. But — but it’s an ongoing
conversation.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead, M.J.

Q Just following up on that, John. When Prime Minister Netanyahu said
yesterday that Hamas had given some sort of ultimatum on the hostages
front, do you know what he was referring to?

MR. KIRBY: I don’t.

Q On a separate topic, I wonder what you made of Hassan Nasrallah’s
speech today: “We are not scared of war.” Does the U.S. hear that as
escalatory or pretty consistent with what we’ve heard recently?

MR. KIRBY: I think we’re going to judge actions and not words. We
haven’t seen Hezbollah jump in with both feet to come to Hamas’s aid and
assistance. We continue to message privately and, of course, publicly
with you all that we don’t want to see this conflict widen and we don’t
want to see a second front opened on the north. We don’t think that’s
good for the region. Certainly isn’t good for the Israeli people. And
we’re going to continue to deliver that message.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead.

Q On migration, Denver’s mayor this weekend told CBS that his ci- — city
needs arriving Venezuelan migrants to have the ability to work. Is the
administration open to extending temporary protective status for
Venezuelans who arrived after that July 31st date that you all set?

MR. KIRBY: I don’t have an update for you on that. You probably should
talk to Secretary Mayorkas and his team at DHS. But that’s not something
I would have an update for.  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead.

Q Thanks, Karine. John, you mentioned the last package for — aid package
for Ukraine. If there’s no deal with Congress, what happens once that’s
exhausted? I mean, will shipments of weapons just stop?

MR. KIRBY: They would have to.

Q Are there any —

MR. KIRBY: They’d have — they’d have to. We have — we have — the
President signed out the last security assistance package for which we
had replenishment authority funds. That’s it. We need the supplemental
passed so that we can provide additional security assistance to Ukraine.

Now, there’s always a lag of days, if not weeks, each time we sign out
one of these packages. So, the things that were signed out on the 27th
have not all been delivered to Ukraine; that will come in coming days
and weeks. But after that, absent supplemental funding, there’s —
there’s no other magical pot to dip into to try to get support for
Ukraine.

Q So, there’s no other pools of government weapons that could be used
temporarily and then refilled later?

MR. KIRBY: I’m not aware of any Band-Aid fix that can be done. I mean, I
don’t want to — I don’t want to get ahead of the decision-making process
here. I mean, we’re going to do what we can to continue to support
Ukraine.

But in terms of the kinds of security assistance that we’ve been able to
provide and the frequency with which we have provided it — every two
weeks — that ended on the 27th when we submitted our last one for the
year, the last one that we had funding applied to.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Okay, we got to start wrapping it up. Go ahead, Nadia.

Q Thank you. A follow-up on the question. John, you just said that you
have no indication that Israel is behind the assassination of Saleh
al-Arouri, but Israeli cabinet ministers and Israel officials are on the
record saying that they are going to go after Hamas leaders; they are
going to assassinate them just like they did in the ‘70s after Munich.
So, do you — do you dismiss what they’re saying as maybe it’s not the
response — the (inaudible) responsibility?

MR. KIRBY: That comment was nothing about — nothing to dismiss anything
they said. I was asked a simple question: Do we have evidence that
Israel was responsible for it? And I said we didn’t.

Now, Israel, as I’ve said before, has a right and responsibility to go
after the threat that Hamas poses, which means they have a right and a
responsibility to go after the leadership of Hamas.

Now, as I’ve also said many, many times from the podium, we expect that
they will do that in accordance with international law.

Q On my question yesterday, the State Department condemned the statement
of two Israeli cabinet ministers calling for the displacement of
Palestinians.

MR. KIRBY: Yeah.

Q And I’m sure that’s the position of the White House as well.

MR. KIRBY: It is.

Q But practically, how do you enforce that? You have so much leverage
over Israel. Apart from condemnation, what practically can you do to
stop this plan? Because Netanyahu defiantly challenged the White House
when it comes two-state solution and other issues —

MR. KIRBY: Well, first —

Q — whether keeping soldiers in the northern part of Gaza.

MR. KIRBY: First of all, I think — I don’t think we can call it a plan.
These are comments by two cabinet officers. That doesn’t constitute an
Israeli plan to relocate people out of Gaza. So, I don’t think we should
get ahead of where we are right now.

And you’re right, that statement does speak for the United States
government and for this administration in terms of our complete refusal
and rebuke of any forced displacement outside of Gaza of any
Palestinians. We have made that clear to our Israeli counterparts in
private sessions. We certainly have made that publicly. And that’s not
going to change.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead, John.

Q Thank you, Karine. Admiral, back to Ukraine for a minute. It was well
chronicled earlier in the war the heavy losses the Russian military took
in terms of equipment, firepower, and such. In the wake of this recent
barrage, though, launched on these Ukrainian cities, what is the current
U.S. assessment of just what the Russian military’s currently capability
is?

MR. KIRBY: Interesting that they have to keep reaching out to other
countries to shore up their inventory of artillery shells and missiles
and, of course, drones. A lot of these drones that were launched in the
last 72 hours were Iranian-made or Iranian-designed drones.

We know that this war has had an impact on Mr. Putin’s war-making
capability, particularly when it comes to munitions: artillery, drones,
missiles.

We also know that he still has a sizable amount of his air force
available to him, a sizable amount of his ground mechanized capability
available to him. And, of course, his — while his navy has been
challenged in the Black Sea, it’s really only been the Black Sea fleet
that has been affected. He also has an advantage in manpower because
Russia is just a bigger country.

And he doesn’t have to — unlike President Zelenskyy, he doesn’t have to
answer to the Russian people about mobilizations and, you know, taking
prisoners out of jail cells and putting them on the battlefront.

He has gone through an enormous amount of manpower in the last two years
of war, and we know that he’s going to continue to try to throw manpower
at it.

All that said, Jonathan, that’s on the plus side of the ledger for him.

On the negative side of the ledger, command and control in the Russian
army is still abysmal. Morale, leadership — absolutely at the dirt
floor. They are still heavily reliant on, you know, long-range kind of
strikes because they got that available to them.

When they engage the Ukrainian forces on the ground, they’re not having
much success. For so — the so-called ballyhooed counteroffensive that
they were going to launch themselves, they’ve really achieved nothing in
recent weeks and months.

This is a military that still has not really learned the lessons that
you would think a modern military would learn after two years of war.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: In the back. Way in the back, go ahead. In the back.

Q Yeah. Admiral, you said the United States doesn’t want a second front.
And you also said that Israel has a right and responsibility to go after
Hamas leadership. But isn’t the United States and the President — aren’t
they exactly widening and escalating this, given the fact that the U.S.
is supporting chasing Hamas leadership outside of Gaza? I mean, the fact
that it’s going into Lebanon, a sovereign nation.

MR. KIRBY: Again, your question is presuming an awful lot and is
presuming that I said things I didn’t say.

I — I’m not —

Q I have it right here, in Otter.

MR. KIRBY: I’m not confirming that the — that the Israelis took this
airstrike. I would refer you to them to speak to their military
operations.

Q They haven’t denied it.

MR. KIRBY: Nevertheless, I’m not confirming that they — that they — that
they took this strike. They have a right and a responsibility to go
after Hamas leadership, and we expect that they’ll do that in accordance
with international law.

Nothing has changed about the fact that we don’t want the conflict to
widen. I mean, heck, my opening statement was four or five pages’ worth
of talking about all the kind of capabilities that the President is
putting in the region to prevent that very outcome.

Q Okay. So, let me follow up on that then. Given the Red Sea patrols, we
knew in advance of those being set up that the Iranian defense minister
said very clearly, “Nobody can make a move in a region where we have
predominance.” The United States knew that, set it up anyway. Is that
not being seen as a provocation? If you know that Iran sees that as a
provocation, you take the action anyway.

MR. KIRBY: Wow. Well, that’s certainly turning things on their — upside
down, isn’t it?

Wouldn’t — wouldn’t you consider a provocation the launching of
ballistic missiles and drones at commercial —

Q Well, the United States —

MR. KIRBY: Wait, wait, wait. Let me —

Q — doesn’t have soil there.

MR. KIRBY: Let me finish. Wouldn’t that be considered a provocation,
taking — targeting innocent merchant shipping —

Q I’m asking you the question.

MR. KIRBY: — and innocent merchant sailors? That’s a provocation.

What we’re doing, what Prosperity Guardian is all about –and go on the
web and you can look at it — it’s a defensive posture. It’s a coalition
of the willing of maritime nations coming together to try to protect
international shipping, shipping that affects the global economy.

Q But it’s led to an escalation, because, in turn, what has happened is
—

MR. KIRBY: No ma’am. No ma’am.

Q So, you’re denying, then, that there has been an escalation since the
Red Sea patrol?

MR. KIRBY: I totally disagree with the premise of your question.

Q Okay, but since the —

MR. KIRBY: It wasn’t the United States who decided to attack commercial
shipping in the Red Sea. The Houthis did that. And who are the Houthis
backed by? Iran. As I’ve said before, Iran provided the missiles that
the Houthis are using.

We are simply in a defensive posture to try to protect that commercial
shipping, and we have in the last 48 hours.

Q And since then, there’s been an escalation. Now, Iran has launched a
frigate into that. So, there has been escalation.

MR. KIRBY: Okay, again, let me stop you. The fact that they —

Q So, has the United — I ask you again: Has the United States’ actions
supported an escalation as a result?

MR. KIRBY: No.

Q You said that the Pres- — your words said —

MR. KIRBY: You asked me a question, ma’am. I answered it. No.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: We got to move on.

Q You said nothing the President has ordered has been designed to widen
or deepen this conflict.

MR. KIRBY: I stand by my answer. No.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Okay, we’ve got to move on. Go ahead, Danny and then
Marek. And then we’re done.

Q Thanks, Karine. Thanks, Admiral. Just on the — you mentioned a recent
call with Netanyahu. Can you speak to the tenor of the recent
conversations between the President and Prime Minister Netanyahu? There
have been reports of growing tensions between them. And, you know, I
mean, what — can you describe to us what the — you know, what — the
tenor of those conversations?

MR. KIRBY: No. No. I’m not going to get into describing the tone and
tenor. We do a readout of these conversations. We’ll continue to do
that.

Look, these are two guys have known each other a long, long time. They
don’t agree on every issue, and you shouldn’t expect that they would
agree on every issue. The President is able to have candid, forthright
conversations with counterparts. And when you’re friends with a country
the way we are with Israel, those — those conversations can be — they
should be candid and forthright.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: We’ve got to wrap it up. Go ahead, Marek.

Q Thank you very much. Two questions on Ukraine. Does the President
support confiscating Russian frozen assets — $300 billion — to help
Ukraine? And a second question, how much of the equipment that was
delivered to Ukraine by the U.S. has been damaged by Russia? Do you have
any assessment — what are their capabilities in terms of the equipment
delivered by the West and the United States?

MR. KIRBY: On your first question, we’re still talking to partners about
what reconstruction and recovery needs to look like in Ukraine after the
war. But obviously, our main focus right now is helping them in this
fight against Russian aggression.

And on your second question, that’s a better question put to the
Ukrainian defense forces, not the United States. We are working very,
very hard to make sure that every system that is provided to Ukraine,
there’s a measure of accountability for it. That — that we can assure
the Congress and the American people that that materiel is being used
appropriately on the field of battle.

And we’ve seen no indication that it hasn’t been — that there’s been —
that — you know, that there’s been some widescale corruption or — or
misuse by the Ukrainian military. But it is war — it is war — and these
things are sometimes being extended — or expended hand to mouth. I mean,
they no sooner get into Ukraine than the Ukrainians are firing them at
Russian troops.

So, we’re working real hard on accountability. But, you know, as for
every single bullet and bean that have been given to Ukraine, I mean,
that’s really something for the Ukrainians —

Q I’m not talking about —

MR. KIRBY: — to speak to.

Q — every single bullet. I’m asking about — in general, about Ukrainian
capabilities in the war with Russia. Are you tracking those?

MR. KIRBY: Of course we are. Yeah. We ha- — in fact, we added — we added
expertise and individuals to the team in Kyiv specifically for
accountability purposes. And the Ukrainians understand our need for
accountability. They share that, and they have made it clear that
they’re willing to work with us on accountability measures for all the
systems that are being provided.

I will just tell you, broadly speaking, without speaking to every single
artillery shell, the kinds of materiel we give Ukraine is given to them
with thoughtful deliberation based on what they say they need in the
moment and in — in coming weeks. And we’ve seen that with every package
that we’ve delivered.

Number two, as I said, in many cases, this stuff is going right from the
— right from the trucks and the trains to the hands of a soldier on the
battlefield — not every one, but oftentimes, it’s that — it’s that fast.
They are using these things appropriately in defense of their country.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Thanks, Admiral.

MR. KIRBY: Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Appreciate it.

Q Thank you, John.

Q Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Thank you so much. Okay. Darlene, good to see. You want
to reset us and start us off again?

Q Sure. Good to see you, too. For the first time in the U.S., there are
wind turbines that have sent electricity to the grid — that there’s a
wind farm off the coast of Massachusetts. It delivered some power just
before midnight on Wednesday. It’s a project the Biden administration
had signed off on. I was just wondering if, you know, the President
supports this kind of energy. Is he aware? Any reaction that you can
share?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, I don’t have a reaction for you at this time. I
would have to get back to the team. And I have — certainly have not
spoken to the President about this particular issue. As you just stated,
that is something that we are — when it comes to wind turbines, you’ve
seen the President visit many manufacturing factories where they are
certainly leading with that and — and manufacturing those wind turbines.

So, certainly that is part of our climate change — certainly —
initiative, clean energy. So, it’s certainly something that we have been
very much backing and supporting. But that particular issue, I have not
touched base with the President about.

Q And then two other quick ones. Will the President have a public
schedule tomorrow or Friday?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I don’t have anything at this — at this time for you.
As you know, he will be traveling on Saturday for January 6 to
Pennsylvania. That is something that the campaign is putting together.
So, if you have any specific details, we’ll certainly — make sure that
you reach out to them. I just don’t have anything else on his schedule
for the next day or two.

Q And is there a list of the scholars and historians that the press
office said he had lunch with today —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So —

Q — in the lead-up to the January 6th —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I don’t have a list to share at this time. For — for
folks who are not tracking, this afternoon, the President met — or had
lunch with a group of scholars and historians to discuss ongoing threats
to our democracy, whether here or — and also abroad.

This is something that he tends to — to do, especially as we head in —
head towards a — you know, an important day like January 6th. So, it’s
something that he — it is commonly done. He’s done it — he’s met with a
diverse group of historians before. I don’t have a list to provide to
you at this time.

Go ahead, Trevor.

Q Thanks, Karine. On the — the scholars and historians meeting, that
statement referenced threats to democratic institutions in the country.
Does the President think that there are any specific policy changes that
are needed to strengthen institutions ahead of the elections?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I don’t have any policies to announce or preview for
you at this time.

Look, the President has always been clear. I’ve been clear from this
podium as well. What happened on Jan- — January the 6th was
unprecedented — an attack on our core principles, an attack on
democracy. What we saw was an attack on our rule of law, attack on our
Constitution.

We saw the Confederate flag in — in the middle of the Capitol building.
It is — it was a — a terrifying and horrific day and a — you know, a
dark day in our history, sadly.

But I just don’t have — as far as policy-wise and our — strengthening
our institutions, I don’t have anything to share at this time.

Q But specifically, does he think the United States is ready to have
free and fair elections in November?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Well, it’s — we have to. I mean, that is what we need —
we have to. That’s what the President believes in. Right? He believes in
having a democracy that works, on having a free and fair election.
That’s something that he has spoken to, obviously.

But I don’t — as far as our policies for our institutions, announcing
any new policy, I don’t have anything to announce at — at this time. But
clearly, that is something that the different agencies who are involved
are certainly making sure that we — we get to a place that we’re — we’re
— you know, we’re — we’re — Americans are able to — to vote freely on —
in November.

Q And do you have any reaction to the new data out of Treasury that the
national debt has hit a record $34 trillion?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, yeah, if you look at — if you look at that data,
it’s a trickle — there’s a trickle-down debt. If you think about it,
Republican tax cuts are responsible about 90 percent of it — of the
increase in the debt as a share of the economy over the last two
decades, excluding emergency spending.

And so, as we know — you’ve heard me say this; you’ve heard the
President speak to this — of what he has done to certainly lower — lower
the debt.

He signed a legislation to lower the deficit by $1 trillion. Right?

And when you think about the Inflation Reduction Act, that’s going to
lower prescription drug costs and cracking down on the wealth — on the
wealth tax cheats that we’ve seen. And then his agenda would cut the
deficit another $2.5 trillion by making the wealthy pay their fair
share. So, that is what the President has done.

What we’ve seen on the other side is the complete opposite. What they’ve
tried to do is continue to give a tax break to the millionaires and the
billionaires. And that — what they have actually put forward would add
more than $3 trillion to the debt.

So, that’s what the data shows us. And that’s what we have done to try
to make sure — the President has been very, very deliberate about this —
to make sure that we can do everything we can to certainly deal with the
— with the debt.

Go ahead, M.J.

Q Thanks, Karine. Has the President been briefed on the imam who was
shot and wounded outside of a New Jersey mosque this morning? Obviously,
there’s serious concern about this having been an act that was driven by
Islamophobia. Just wondered what the White House —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, we’re certainly — we’re aware of the shooting of
the imam outside of the New Jersey mosque, as you just laid out. And
certainly, we’re praying for his speedy recovery.

Local law enforcement are all hands on deck, obviously, and is
investigating. And certainly, we hope that they’re able to complete
their work soon.

I don’t have anything else. I — I would refer you to the FBI on any
specifics. And I have not spoken to the President. But obviously, we are
aware of it.

Q And just — given that this is the first briefing of the new calendar
year, is there a way in which you could sum up, sort of, what the
President’s top priorities are as we head into a new year, particularly
given that this is the last year of his first term?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, you know, the way that we see the President’s
— even the President’s first three years: He’s done more in the first
three years than presidents have done in the first two terms — or —
their first two terms — in their two terms of their presidency.

And that is — if you think about historic pieces of legislation —
whether it’s infrastructure; whether it’s CHIPS and Science Act; whether
it is — you know, is the Inflation Reduction Act, as I just mentioned,
which is historic in nature, as we talk about clean energy and lowering
prescription drugs — that is — that is incredibly important.

And what we need to do and what the President wants to focus on is
implementing those — right? — continuing to implement those really key
important legislation. That’s what you’re going to see the President do.

Last year in his State of the Union, you heard the President speak to
finishing the job. And — and so, that is something that he wants to
continue to do — right? — whether it’s making sure we have veterans —
making sure — that Unity Agenda that he talked about: making sure that
we’re focusing on our veterans, focusing on getting fentanyl off the
street, focusing on how do we deal with cancer. Those are the things
that the President is going to continue to talk about.

And — and one of the very important things in the Inflation Reduction
Act is that — there is that insulin cap at 35 bucks for adults. He wants
to make that — make sure that happens for all Americans.

So, there is a lot to work on.

We saw the data coming out of — out of 2023 on the economy and where the
economy is headed and how Bidenomics, we believe, is working because of
that data.

And so, there’s still a lot of work to do. And that’s what you’re going
to see from this President.

Q Is the emphasis heavily on implementation as opposed to, you know,
there being other pieces of legislation that the White House is hopeful
—

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I mean, look, I think when I talk — when he talks about
the Unity Agenda, there’s more things to be done. Right? There’s more
work to be done that continues on the historic — I think the historic
first term that the President has had. So, certainly, there are more
things to be done. But implementing those — those historic piece of
legislation is important as well.

Go ahead, Mary.

Q Secretary Mayorkas has obviously been up on the Hill negotiating this
deal trying to hammer out something on the border. But at the same time,
the House is formally beginning impeachment proceedings against him. Do
you have any concern that this will complicate a deal, it could hurt
negotiations, especially as we’re up against a clock here?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, I — you know, I — I kind of addressed this at the
top, how baseless it is and how they’re wasting their time on — on
impeachment proceedings that make no sense. And that’s not what the
American people want them to focus on.

And that certainly — we see that from House Republicans, obviously, and
it’s a political stunt. It’s baseless. It’s purely baseless.

And instead of coming together to deal with potentially what’s going to
happen on January 19th — a shutdown — instead of dealing with that and
really keeping to their word of that bipartisan agreement that the
President did and made back in 2023 and keeping that deal — two thirds
of House Republicans voted for that; we saw bipartisan support in the
Senate — and what they’re doing is — they’re — they’re not doing their
job.

They’re focusing on something that Americans do not want to see. They
want us to deliver on things that matter to them.

Q Well, regardless of that, are you concerned that the fact that they
are taking this action — even if you disagree with it — that it’s going
to make this more difficult —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I think it’s —

Q — that it’s going to complicate all of this?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: We think it’s baseless, and we think it’s a waste of
time,and we think it’s not the — not the focus that they should have.
That’s not the focus that Americans want them to have.

And so, look, we have — I mean, we were able to come together — when you
think about the budget, when you think about where we’re headed,
potentially, on the 19th — to come with a bipartisan agreement to keep
the government open. That was done in a bipartisan way. Two thirds of
House Republicans voted for that.

So, we can get this done. They agreed on it. They agreed on it.

But yet, they want to focus on something that is not — that is not going
to keep the government open. That’s for sure.

Go ahead, Weijia.

Q Thank you, Karine. Last night, the President said that he needed more
money to protect the U.S. southern border: “Give me the money.” Does he
think it’s a lack of money, a lack of funding that has led to the
current situation at the border?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I mean, look, it’s certainly a — we’re ask- — there’s a
reason — let me step back for a second.

If you look at the national security supplemental that the President put
forward, he put border security in there — right? — because he believes
in order to get the work done at the border, we need more resources. DHS
needs more resources. Our Border Patrol agents need more resources. We
need more immigration judges. We need more resources to get this done.
We need the technology at the border to deal with what’s going on with
migrants at the border.

And — and, you know — you know, last May, the Speaker and Republican —
the Republicans in the House, they voted to get rid of 2,000 — 2,000
Border Patrol agents. I mean, that’s their focus. So, of course, that’s
not helpful.

That — so, we need the resources to actually do the work. And they keep
getting in the way. House Republicans keep getting in the way of doing
the work to deal with what we’re seeing at the border.

So, they’re obstructing. House Republicans are obstructing. That’s what
they’re doing right now.

Q But does the President believe it’s just a money issue? Or does he
think that the policies have to change too?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Well, I would remind you, Weijia, on the first day of
his administration, he put forth a comprehensive immigration policy —
legislation. And he presented that to Congress. And he did that because
he understands that the immigration process — or the system — has been
broken for decades — for decades.

So, obviously, we need to change policy and work on policy to deal with
a broken system. So, it’s both. It is — and that’s what you’ve been
seeing from the Senate side. Both Republicans and Democrats have been
talking and negotiating for the past couple of weeks on how to deal with
the border situation, border security on — and it’s been a policy
conversation and a funding conversation. So, it’s both.

Q And does he have any New Year’s resolutions? (Laughter.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I don’t have the President’s New Year’s resolution. I
think — what I will say is that the President wants to continue doing
the job that he — that he has said that he’s going to do on behalf of
the American people. That’s what we’ve seen him do the last three years.

I’ve talked about the historic piece of legislation that’s actually
going to deal with healthcare; going to deal with veteran’s health —
right?; going to deal with clean energy and climate change; going to
deal with key issues that matter to the American people — Bidenomics,
making sure that the economy works for all while building the middle
class. Those are the things that the President is going to focus on.

Go ahead, Justin.

Q Two quick ones. The first, after the plane crash in Japan, I’m
wondering both has the administration offered any support or — or is it
working on the investigation on the crash. And has that prompted any
review of — especially of —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So —

Q — certain tarmac safety procedures —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Let me —

Q — here?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Let me just first say, Justin, our hearts go out to the
families of the Japanese service members who lost their lives in this
terrible accident. So, we’re glad that the passengers and all —
obviously, the crew members were able to get out in the — on the
commercial flight was able to get out safely. That is incredibly
important.

Any specifics on — any questions about investigations, that was
something for the — the government of — of Japan to — to speak to.

Q And then, the resignation yesterday of Harvard’s president seemed to
generate a lot of conversation. I know the President — or you weighed in
after her testimony on Capitol Hill, but I’m wondering if you have a
reaction.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, you know, I know there’s been a lot of
coverage of this. And so, I want to be very mindful and careful. And
I’ve said this before: When it comes to either private institutions or
colleges and universities, we’re not going to comment — we’re not going
to comment on any personal decision that’s been made.

And I want to — you know, as you asked — because you asked me our
comments from here and what we were — what we said from here. We believe
that — that this is a moment for leaders to have moral clarity. That —
we believe that it is incredibly important at this time to have moral
clarity.

And — and you know — you know, look, any calls for genocide are — are
monstrous. And they’re antithetic- — antithetical. There should not be a
place for that in this country. And we’re always going to call out hate,
and we’re always going to be very, very clear about that.

And I will add that you heard the university presidents who testified
also apologize. Right? And you heard them say this — I’ll — I’ll quote
what President Gay said. She said, “I am sorry. Words matter.” I’ll
quote what President McGill say, “I was not focused on — but I should
have been — the irrefutable fact that a call for genocide of Jewish
people is a call for some of the most terrible violence human beings can
perpetrate.”

So, we believe it’s a time to stand up and have — and show leadership.
And we believe that’s what we did at that time.

Go ahead.

Q Thanks, Karine. On the border negotiations, can you comment on the
concerns raised by some of the hi- — cauc- –Hispanic Caucus members and
other elected Latino leaders who feel they’ve been kind of cut out of
these talks?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, we’ve been in touch with Democrats,
obviously, members of the Hispanic leadership, and we’ve done that as
these conversations have been going. We’re not going to speak to,
certainly, private conversations.

Look, I’ll say this. The President believes that we need to have a
bipartisan agreement. That’s where he believes on both funding and also
policy. And that’s what you’ve seen from Democrats and Republicans on
the Senate side. And that’s what they’ve been doing. They’ve been
they’ve been having those conversations during the holiday season, and —
and throughout this week as well.

And so, we believe those conversations are headed in the right
direction. And so, again, I said this moments ago: Our — the President
believes our immigration system is broken. That’s why he put forth a
legislation to deal with the comprehensive — a comprehensive legislation
to deal with the immigration system.

And so, now we’re having a conversation — a bipartisan conversation
about how to move forward. We’re going to continue certainly to hear
from the leaders, obviously, and to hear what they have to say. And
we’ve been in touch with them. We’ve had conversations with them. Not
going to go into private conversations.

And, you know, it’s being hammered out. I don’t want to get into
specifics from here, what the policies are going to look like, what’s in
or what’s out. We think it’s heading in the right direction. And it is
important to have these —

Q Karine, one of the —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: — conversations.

Q One of the concerns that they’ve raised, they — they say the
discussion is leading the Biden administration into a trap — you know,
asylum discussions — that making it harder to migrate legally will only
increase irreg- — irregular migration. Have you heard that from them
specifically? And how does —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, I’ve seen the reporting, just like you have.
Obviously, the team here has had conversations with leaders.

Here’s — here’s — here’s the situation — right? — the situation is that
this system — this immigration system has been broken for decades. And
we need to have a bipartisan agreement to move forward on how to deal
with the system. That’s what we need to do, both on a policy front and a
funding front.

And so, that’s what you’re seeing from the Senate side on both
Republicans and Democrats, and it’s been weeks of conversations and
negotiation. And they — we think that is important. That’s the only way
we’re going to be able to deal with this issue. And it’s headed in the
right direction.

I’m not going to get into asylum. I’m not going to get into asylum
policy. I’m not going to get into specifics. And — and so, I’m just
going to have to leave it there, obviously.

Go ahead, Michael.

Q Thanks, Karine. A House committee is moving ahead with impeachment
proceedings against Secretary Mayorkas. There’s a hearing scheduled for
next week. So, I’d just like to get the White House response.

And also, just to clarify, does this — does the President still have
confidence in the Secretary?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Absolutely. The President has confidence in the
Secretary. I think — and I’ve — I said this moments ago — I said it at
the top as well. We believe that what they’re doing — the House
Republicans are doing with this impeachment inquiry is baseless. We
believe that it’s a political stunt.

And — and we believe there’s not — there’s no time for that right now.
There are things that the American people want us to get done. And
that’s what they should focus on.

And — and, you know, it is — it is unfortunate that this is where the
House Republicans — that’s the road that they want to go down with this
impeachment proceeding. That is really unfortunate when the American
people have been very clear: They want us to see — they want us to work
in a bipartisan way to get things done for them. And that’s what the
President wants to do.

Go ahead, Karen.

Q Just two back on the border negotiations. Has the President spoken to
Secretary Mayorkas since he met with the bipartisan negotiators on the
Hill yesterday —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I don’t have —

Q — to get briefed?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I don’t have — I — I would — literally would have to
check. I don’t have any — any call with the — to read out. But
obviously, the President speaks to his Cabinet Secretaries on a regular
basis.

But on — on this particular meeting, I just don’t ha- — I don’t — I
don’t want to get ahead — ahead of — of that. So, I would have to check
in.

But he speaks to them on a regular basis. Obviously, it’s his Cabinet.

Q And you’ve said you’re not going to get into the details of what’s
being negotiated. But broadly, does the White House want to see Congress
clear the supplemental before turning to the government funding issue —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So —

Q — before January 19th?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: — as you — I mean, as you just laid out, Congress has a
lot of work to do. They do. The supplemental — like, the reason that we
put forward a supplemental — they are emergency requests that we believe
are incredibly important and that needs to be dealt with on behalf of
the American people.

So, obviously, those are important. Those are emergency requests that
the President asked for. So, critical — very critical to the American
people.

And, you know, their basic job for House — for the House — well, for
Congress, more broadly, is to keep the government open. That’s their
basic duty — is to keep the government open.

And all they’re doing is dealing with a bipartisan agreement that the
President made with Congress. Right? It’s something — again, I’m going
to repeat myself here — something that two thirds of House Republicans
voted for, something that — that we saw come out of the Senate in a
bipartisan posture.

And so, they have a lot to deal with. They have a lot to deal with. And
they should just do their job.

Go ahead.

Q Does the President still have plans to visit the disaster site in East
Palestine, Ohio?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, I don’t have any — anything — any schedule of the
President at this time. But I will say this: The President continues to
oversee, as you know — and we’ve said it multiple time from here. It was
a robu- — robust recovery effort to support the people of East Palest- —
Palestine. And we will visit when it is most helpful. The President will
visit when it’s almost helpful to the community.

And so, we’re going to continue to stay on the ground as long as
possible — remember, because we have that robust operation — while —
while ensuring that Norfolk Southern is held accountable for the trauma
they inflicted on this community.

But in the meantime, this is another thing — I was just asked about
Congress, the supplemental, and the budget — this is another thing that
we want Congress to act on. It is important that they do their part to
enhance rail safety. That is something that Congress has to do. And they
have to do it by — by passing a bipartisan railway safety act. That is
something that they need to get to.

But the President is going to continue to be there for the community, as
he has been for the past — past several months.

Q And Argentina has reported three foreign nationals, Syrian and
Lebanese, arrested on suspicion of plotting a terror attack. Is that
something the U.S. is monitoring? Does it raise concern levels here?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I don’t have anything for you at this time.

Go ahead, Ed.

Q Yeah, on the federal debt. I want to ask you about it. So, I heard you
blame the Republicans for the federal debt, but President Biden has been
in office for 35 months. And over the past three months, the U.S. has
added $10 billion per day to the federal debt. So — and that’s not
turning around. So, is there a discussion here about cutting spending
then?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Republican tax cuts are — are responsible for 90
percent — 90 percent of the increase in the debt. Ninety percent. That
is something that Republicans are responsible for.

What the President has done — what the President has done — and you’ve
heard us talk about it. I just talked about this. He’s put forth
legislation, like lowering the deficit by $1 trillion. And that’s part
of the lowering prescription drug costs and cracking down on — on the
wealthy tax cheats. That’s what he’s done.

You know, $1.5 trillion — again, another way to lower the deficit, and
that is through wasteful spending on special interests, like Big Pharma.
The President beat Big Pharma. That’s what he was able to do last year
because of the policies that he has put forth.

And meanwhile — yeah, you know what? The GOP and congressional
Republicans — what they want to do is they want to continue with their
MAGAnomics. What they’ve proposed will add $3 trillion to the debt.
That’s — that’s the numbers. You’re a data guy. That’s the numbers.
That’s what we have seen.

Q So, wait. Real quick, also on the — on the border. The Vice President
is in Los Angeles — I’m sorry — went to Los Angeles to Las Vegas today.
And the House Speaker is along the border. Does the President still have
confidence that the Vice President can get to the root causes of the
migration to stop the flow?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: The — the President sees the Vice President as a
partner. She’s a partner with him on all of the — all of the successes
that we have seen, what we’ve been able to do the first — the first term
in this administration — the first three years of this administration.

I just listed out hist- — historic pieces of legislation that we’ve been
able to get done. Whether it’s lowering prescription drugs; whether it’s
dealing with veterans care; whether it’s dealing with climate change;
whether it’s Bidenomics, dealing with the economy — that is something
that he has done in partnership with the Vice President.

So, he has all confidence in her and will continue to do so.

Q And the border?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: He has confidence in the — in the Vice President. I
answered your question.

Go ahead.

Q With the additional indictment of Senator Menendez, does the President
think the senator should resign?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: That’s up to him. That’s — that’s a decision that he
needs to make. And obviously, it’s a serious matter. And he thinks it
was the right thing that he stepped down his chairmanship. As — on
anything else to your question, that’s something for the senator to
decide on.

Q Just broadly, though, does the President trust the senator? And is —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: That is —

Q Has the senator been cut off by the White House communications at all?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I’m not — no going to get into any private discussions
here at the White House. But that is something — as it relates to him
resigning, that is something that the senator has to deal with.

Go ahead.

Q You mentioned the — the immigration proposal that the President put
forward a few times. Are there any pieces of it that the President is
now pushing for in these border talks?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I’m not going to get into negotiations from here.

Q Why is he not actively pushing for any parts of it?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I — I didn’t say he wasn’t. I’m just saying I’m not
negotiating from here.

Go ahead.

Q Thank you, Karine. A couple of weeks ago, you had said what we’re
seeing at the border isn’t unusual. But in the month of December, there
were more than 302,000 migrant encounters — the highest total for a
single month ever recorded. So, does the administration concede that
what we’re seeing now is unusual?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: What I said was, to be exact — is that what we’re
seeing at the U.S. is — ebbs and flows in how many migrants arrive at
the border. It’s something that happens every year. It ebbs and flows.
And it’s fueled by efforts of smugglers to encourage irregular
migration.

And I will add, since — since May 12th, DHS has — has removed folks who
have been — who have been here illegally — who were not here on a legal
basis — about 460,000 people that they’ve been able to remove.

That’s what I said: Every year, we see an ebbs and flow. And that’s what
we’re seeing at this time — and which is caused by misinformation from —
and disinformation from smugglers.

Q Well, ICE reported that they only deported 142,000 in all of fiscal
year 2023. December had more than double that cross in just a single
month. So, how is — how is that really a measurable consequence?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Since May 12th, DHS has been able to remove and return
over 460,000 individuals who — who did not have a legal basis to be
here. That’s what DHS has been able to do since May 12th.

And I will remind you, you know, that just last week, we had Homeland
Security Advisor Sherwood-Ran- — Sherwood-Randall and Secretaries
(inaudible) Mayorkas meet with the Mexican government — just last week —
and it was a productive conversation. And we believe that the president
of Mexico has taken significant enforcement actions, and we are starting
to see the results.

And so, a lot of this is diplomacy. Right? A lot of it is having
diplomacy. A lot of it is enforcement.

I mean, you know, I just laid out how last May, while — while DHS was
removing — starting to remove folks who were here on a — who were not
here on a legal basis, you had House Republicans voting to get rid of
2,000, you know, Border Patrol agents. That’s what they were doing.

So, we’re trying to deal with the issue. And we get it. It ebbs and
flows every year. We get it. We understand what’s happening at the
border.

That’s why there’s negotiations happening on the Senate side, with
Republicans and Democrats, to deal with this issue.

Q Dealing — dealing with the issue as the administration is also
fighting to keep up — you know, to remove razor wire along the border
that is intended to keep, you know, this surge lowered to keep people
out from crossing illegally.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Governor Abbott’s razor wire does not prevent — it does
not prevent non-citizens from unlawfully crossing. That’s not what it
does. If anything, it puts at risk — it puts the lives of the Border
Patrol at risk. It puts them in danger. That’s what the razor wire does.

And that’s what the — Governor Abbott is doing — again, a political
stunt that that’s — doesn’t actually fix the problem and puts Border
Patrol agents —

Q Is there anything else fixing it right now?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I — well, I just don’t —

Q I mean —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: — but —

Q — it’s —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I mean, it —

Q Sure, a temporary solution, obviously. But when — I guess the reason
that I’m coming to it —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: But, Jacqui —

Q — from this perspective —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: — it also puts —

Q — is because —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: — it puts the — it puts Border Patrol — they — it puts
them in a difficult position. Right?

Q I hear you. But when you’re talking about the impeachment proceeding,
for instance, as baseless —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Uh-huh.

Q — and you have, you know, Democrats calling on the administration to
do more —

You had the mayor of Denver today saying that Denver has become the
highest city per capita for migrant recipients in the country. You’ve
had mayors in New York and Chicago begging for more federal help, saying
that the administration is not answering them.

And then, you have Texas saying that they’ve had to take matters into
their own hands because the administration isn’t enforcing existing laws
on the books.

The numbers keep going up. You have, you know, records being shattered
every month, as population bigger than the — the size of Seattle coming
in since October.

And I understand where you’re coming from. But in the meantime, when
there’s really not been any progress — and you’ve always talked about
how this has been an issue for decades — what is the administration
doing right now to actually improve the crisis at the border?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: We have House Republicans that’s literally blocking the
President’s effort to do something. That’s what they’re doing. They’re
playing political games. They’re doing political stunts. Literally,
House Republicans themselves voted to decrease the amount of Border
Patrol agents by 2,000. They’re getting in the way, and they don’t want
to help.

But we’re — we are glad that we are working with Senate Republicans and
Democrats in a bipartisan way to come up with a bipartisan agreement to
deal with the border security. That’s what we’re seeing. Those
negotiations have been going on. They’re going to — they’re continuing
this week.

And we hope — we really do hope that we come to a place where we can
talk about a bipartisan agreement where we can deal with the funding and
the policy.

And, you know, House Republicans are getting in the way. That’s what
they want to focus on. That’s where they see there — there could be the
most effective. And that’s not what we believe. We — that’s not what the
American people want.

Go ahead, Peter.

AIDE: Karine, you have time for one or two more.

Q Just to be clear, how does the razor wire put Border Patrol agents at
risk, Karine? The Biden administration themselves said that the agents
have been cutting the wire to provide medical assistance to migrants or
to apprehend migrants who have already crossed into U.S. territory.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Well, let me be more clear. It makes it more difficult
— it actually makes it more difficult for Border Patrol to apprehend of
those who — who do cross. So, I’m going to be — just clear that up a
little bit. It makes —

Q So, it’s less about their own safety —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: It just makes it —

Q — but their ability to apprehend.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah, yeah.

Q Understood. I just wanted to —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Just to be more clear.

Q — make sure I got that right.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: It makes — it does make it more difficult for them to
do their jobs. Right? It does.

Q A quick last question, if we can. President Biden obviously campaigned
on the idea of being a bipartisan leader, the ability to work together.
One of his biggest — biggest successes, the White House would say, would
be the infrastructure law — right now a trillion dollars. It was
approved with the support of Democrats and Republicans.

Right now, there’s a new Republican House Speaker. President Biden
hasn’t had a one-on-one meeting with him yet. Many weeks have now
passed. Is there any indication when that would happen? And what’s
precluding the President from saying, “Speaker Johnson, come to the
White House. Let’s sit down and talk about this”?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, here’s what I — I’ll say to that. You have Speaker
Johnson, who has been very clear where he stands on the border — right?
— who has — continues with the House Republicans to make this a
political issue, and to put — to move forward with political stunts, and
has blocked — has blocked any efforts for the President to deal with the
border.

That’s what we’ve seen. That is what we’ve seen from the Speaker.

Now, the President has been able with his team — right? — to have a
bipartisan conversation and nego- — negotiation with senators,
Republicans and Democrats. That is a good thing. That is a good thing.

We think those negotiations are headed in the right way, as we talk
about border security. And, you know, we are hopeful — we are hopeful
that we’ll come to a place that we are dealing with an issue that
Americans really care about. And that’s where we are, Peter.

Q So, no plans —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: That is where —

Q — are being made for the two sides —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I don’t —

Q — to meet?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I don’t have anything to read out to you. But that is
what — that is the playing field that we’re seeing right now.

Q Okay.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: That is.

Thanks, everybody. I’ll see you tomorrow.

3:15 P.M. EST
