---
date: '2024-01-18'
published_time: 2024-01-18 17:22:43-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/01/18/press-gaggle-by-principal-deputy-press-secretary-olivia-dalton-and-nsc-coordinator-for-strategic-communications-john-kirby-en-route-morrisville-nc/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Olivia Dalton and NSC Coordinator\
  \ for Strategic Communications John Kirby En Route Morrisville,\_NC"
---
 
Aboard Air Force One  
En Route to Morrisville, NC

12:36 P.M. EST

     MS. DALTON:  Well, good afternoon, everyone. 

We are on our way to Raleigh, where the President will announce $82
million in investments from the American Rescue Plan’s Capital Project
Fund to connect thousands more North Carolina homes and businesses to
high-speed Internet as part of the Biden-Harris administration’s
Investing in America agenda.   
  
     A couple of reasons why this is really significant.  
  
     Stepping back, you may recall, when the President entered office,
24 million Americans lacked access to the Internet.  Period.  Millions
more lacked access to affordable, reliable

Internet access — had limited or spotty connectivity.

The President crisscrossed the country during the 2020 campaign and
heard from families about how they were driving their kids in the throes
of a pandemic to the back of fas- — fast-food restaurants to get Wi-Fi
to complete their online homework; heard from seniors about their
limited access to tel- — telehealth visits; and how badly small
businesses needed access to reliable, affordable Internet.

That’s why, when the President entered office, he made a commitment to
endin- — ending that digital divide and ensuring that every single
American and small business would have affordable access to reliable
Internet, high-speed Internet by the year 2030.

Today’s announcement in North Carolina is a step forward in doing that. 
North Carolina is a state where one in three people lives in a rural
area, so expanding high-speed, reliable Internet to thousands more homes
and businesses is a very big deal.

And beyond that, the President will talk about how the American Rescue
Plan has made it possible for more than 880,000 North Carolinians
already to save money on their — their monthly Internet bills.

But beyond that, we’re going to North Carolina for another reason.  Many
of you may not know that North Carolina currently produces 40 percent of
the fiber-optic cable we use here in America.  And so, for a place like,
you know, Hickory, North Carolina, which is responsible for producing
all of that fiber-optic cable, the investments that we’re making here in
North Carolina are very significant, as well as the investments we’re
making all across the country, because private sector companies like
<s>CommScore</s> \[CommScope\] and Corning are making more than $550
billion of investments and expanding production locally so that — so
that that fiber-optic cable can be manufactured locally with the
attendant 650-plus jobs that are coming to the state.

So, this is really a win the President will be talking about for the
workers of North Carolina.  It’s a win for families and small
businesses.  And certainly, it’s a win for the econ- — economy of the
state. 

And the — the President is also delighted, as always, to be joined by
Governor Cooper for this day.

So, with that news at the top, I’m going to turn it over to Admiral
Kirby, who has some updates to share with you about the goings-on in the
world.  John.

MR. KIRBY:  Thanks, Olivia. 

Man, it’s cold back here.

Q    It is.

MR. KIRBY:  You should turn the heat up.  (Laughter.)

So, just a couple of things off the top.  I know you saw reports out of
Central Command last night about some additional strikes that we took to
knock out a range of Houthi missiles that were prepared to fire into the
Southern Red Sea. 

We did it again this morning, striking at some anti-ship missiles — a
couple of anti-ship missiles that we had reason to believe were being
prepared for imminent fire into the Southern Red Sea.  Central Command —

(A reporter gestures for Mr. Kirby to speak louder.)

MR. KIRBY:  Louder?  Nobody ever asks me to talk louder.  (Laughter.)

Central Command will have a statement out soon.  So, you’ll — you’ll see
all that.  But that — that happened this morning.

Obviously, you’ve all seen the reports out of Pakistan that they — they
fired some missiles in — into Iran.  We’re monitoring this very, very
closely.  We don’t want to see an escalation, clearly, in South Asia —
South and Central Asia.  And we’re in touch with our Pakistani
counterparts, as you might expect. 

We’ll let the Pakistanis speak to — to their military operations.  I’m
not going to parse that or do any — or try to, you know, operationalize
it here from — from Air Force One.

And then lastly, Jake Sullivan, our national security advisor, will be
meeting this afternoon with families of the American hostages that are
still being held by Hamas. 

And we suspect that most, if not all, of the families will be
represented in that meeting.  The manifest is still being worked out. 
But we’ll have more to say after — after that meeting occurs.

That’s it.

Q    John, just to start things off.  What are the U.S. concerns about
the situation between Pakistan and Iran?  And why would you see possible
risks of escalation?

MR. KIRBY:  Well, I mean, these are two well-armed nations.  And again,
we don’t — we don’t want to see an escalation of — of any armed conflict
in the region, certainly between those two countries.

I want to let Pakistan speak to their military operations.  I want to be
careful about that.  As you know, they were struck first by — by Iran,
which was obviously a- — another reckless attack, another example of
Iran’s destabilizing behavior in the region.  So, again, I think I’ll
leave it at that.

     Q    Did the United States — was the United States aware of those
attacks before they happened?  Did the Pakistanis give —

     MR. KIRBY:  I am not aware of any prenotification that we received
at all.

     Q    Does the United States intend to support Pakistan, seeing that
it’s a major non-NATO ally of the country?

     MR. KIRBY:  I don’t have an update for you on that.

     Q    What’s — what about just arms control?  I mean, this is — the
President said that this shows that Iran is not well-liked.  I mean,
isn’t that why they want a nuclear weapon?

     MR. KIRBY:  Who?  Iran?

     Q    Yes.

MR. KIRBY:  I’ll let the Iranians and the regime speak to their — to
their ambitions.  We still maintain and our policy is that we — we do
not want to see an Iran with nuclear weapons, because an Iran with
nuclear weapons is bad for the whole region, if not globally.

Now, as the President said when he first came into office, certainly
would have preferred to achieve that outcome through diplomacy. 
Obviously, that’s not going to happen anytime soon. 

So, we will make sure that we have the capabilities and the options
available to the Commander-in-Chief to prevent that outcome if it comes
to that.  He has said clearly, we will not allow them to achieve a
nuclear weapon capability.

Q    John, as a long-term strategy, should Americans just expect the
regular airstrikes to be the — the — at least the near term, if not the
long term?

MR. KIRBY:  Well, we certainly don’t want that to be case, J.J.  We’re
not — we’re not looking for a conflict with the Houthis.  We’re not
looking for a conflict in the region.  But we have to be able to act in
our own self-defense, not just for our ships and our sailors but for
merchant ships and merchant sailors and international shipping in the
Red Sea.

And, as you heard the President say this morning right before he came
out here, these — these strikes will continue for as long as they need
to continue to — to try to disrupt and degrade the Houthis’ ability to
continue to cot- — conduct these attacks.

Q    But he also said, “No,” they’re not working.  So, why continue with
the same strategy if the Houthis are still continuing to attack?

MR. KIRBY:  With each and every one of these strikes, we are taking away
capability from the Houthis.  With each and every one of these strikes,
we are making it harder for them to continue to propagate these
attacks. 

Again, as we’ve said many times, they have a choice to make.  The choice
ought to be to stop these reckless attacks.  If they don’t, then we — we
have additional options available to us, and we won’t be — we won’t be
shy about using them.

Q    And then can you talk about what other things are on the table? 
Could — I mean, could there be a change in tactics, a strike on Iran? 
Can you talk about what could be on the table in the future?

MR. KIRBY:  No.  No, I’m not going to telegraph punches one way or
another, except to say is — what the President said this morning, that
if the Houthis continue to — to go down this path, we will continue to —
to do what we can to disrupt and degrade their ability to — to make
those — to make those choices.

Q    And one more on Pakistan.  Has the United States assessed that
these were legitimate targets?

MR. KIRBY:  I don’t have any military assessment independent here to
talk about.  As I said, we’ll let the Pakistanis speak to their
operations.

Q    On the Iran, do you have any reaction to the Taliban calling for
peace between the countries?

MR. KIRBY:  Between Iran and Pakistan?  Is that what you’re saying?

Yeah, look, I’ll let — I’ll let — I’ll let the Taliban speak for
themselves.  I’ll let other nations that have weighed in here speak for
themselves.  You’ve heard from us: We’re watching this closely.  We
don’t want to see an escalation.  We’re in touch with our — our
Pakistani counterparts, as you might expect that we would be.

If the Taliban want to be taken seriously on the world stage, they need
to meet the commitments that they said they would meet when — when they
took over the governing structure: to treat women and girls
appropriately, to abide by international law.  And we haven’t seen them
meet those commitments.

Q    Do you have any reaction to Netanyahu rejecting a Palestinian state
in a post-war scenario for Gaza?

MR. KIRBY:  I would just tell you that nothing has changed about
President Biden’s desire that a two-state solution is really in the best
interest of not only the Israeli people but — but, of course, the
Palestinian people.  In fact, it’s in the best interest of the region. 
And we’re not going to stop working towards that goal.

This is — this is not a new comment by Prime Minister Netanyahu.  We
obviously see it differently.  We believe that the Palestinians have
every right to live in an independent state with peace and security. 
And the President and his team is going to continue to work on that. 

Obviously, the focus right now is making sure that Israel has what it
needs to defend itself against Hamas and — and that humanitarian aid and
assistance continue to get to the desperate people of — of Gaza. 

But there’s going to be a post-conflict Gaza.  And we have been
exceedingly clear about what we want to see that look like.  And we want
governance in Gaza that’s representative of the aspirations of the
Palestinian people, that they have a vote and a voice in what that looks
like and that there’s no reoccupation of Gaza.

Q    But what reason do you have to believe that he’s not actively
working against that outcome, if that’s his view?

     MR. KIRBY:  Again, he’s been very clear about his view.  We’ve been
very clear about our view.  That’s not going to change, and we’re going
to continue to have those discussions not just with our Israeli
counterparts but with our other counterparts in the region.

     We still think — Trevor, this is a — we still think it’s viable. 
We still think it’s possible.  We still think it’s the — it’s the best
outcome for the Israeli people as well as the Palestinian people.  
  
     Q    The Wall Street —

     Q    You said he’s been “very clear” on that before.  When — when
has he specifically said he does not want —

     MR. KIRBY:  He has said in — in recent comments that he’s not — not
in support of that.

     Q    Publicly or privately, do you mean?

     MR. KIRBY:  Publicly.

     Q    Okay.

     Q    The Wall Street Journal reported that the Iraqi Prime Minister
had asked the U.S.-led military leadership to leave the United — to
leave Iraq.  Is that something that you guys have heard formally?  Is
there any comment that you can —

     MR. KIRBY:  I’d say — I’d say a couple of things on this.

I mean, first of all, I’m not going to disclose diplomatic conversations
that we’re having with the Iraqis.  We are there at their invitation. 
We continue to be there at their invitation to go after — to help them,
the Iraqi security forces, go after ISIS, which is still a viable threat
in Ir- — in Iraq and — and in Syria, quite frankly, as well. 

And we’re — we’re grateful for the cooperation that we get, the support
that we get.  We’re grateful for the relationship that we have with the
Iraqi security forces.  And we’ll be in constant consultations with the
Iraqi government as this moves forward.

Q    But it — were — were those comments a surprise to the
administration?  I mean, they were on-the-record comments.

MR. KIRBY:  I’m not going to — I’m not going to characterize diplomatic
conversations one way or the other.  We — we know we’re at the — we’re
there at the invitation of the Iraqis, and — and we’ll consult with them
appropriately about what that — what that mission looks like going
forward and, therefore, what posture and resources have to be applied to
that mission going forward.

Q    Kirby, on the Hill, there is a growing number of Democratic
lawmakers who have said it’s maybe time to rethink the strategy with
Israel, given that Netanyahu has repeatedly ignored U.S. guidance and
advice.  There’s more people who have favored conditioning aid.  I just
wonder what the administration’s responses to that are.

MR. KIRBY:  I — I think the — the record does not bear out that the —
that the Israelis have ignored American advice or — or U.S. leadership’s
views and perspectives and — and counsel.  That just — the record just
doesn’t bear that out.

Whether it’s tailoring their military operations in the north, adding
additional humanitarian corridors, opening up the Kerem Shalom gate,
providing information to — to folks on the ground about where they’re
operating, relying a little less on airstrikes than they were on the
outset — I could go on and on.

All of these things were really driven by President Biden and by the
national security team in terms of urging the Israelis to take a
different tack than maybe what they would — would have otherwise done.

Now, again, they’re a sovereign nation.  They get to choose what
military operations they conduct.  We understand that.  But as Secretary
Blinken has said many, many times: How they do that matters, and we are
talking to them about the “how.”  And they have been receptive to those
messages.

I also want to say, while I’m on this topic: One civilian casualty is
one too many.  And there have been too many.  And we have talked to them
about that as well, in terms of tailoring their operations to be more —
more discriminant, more cautious, more careful.

And, as a matter of fact, one of the things that we’ve ur- — we had been
urging them to do and you’re now starting to see them do is transition
to lower-intensity operations, particularly up in the — up in the
north.  They’ve announced, just over the last couple of days, the
removal of a whole division of troops.  That’s the beginning of what we
hope will be this transition to lower-intensity operations.  And that is
something that we have been urging them to do.

Q    And — and if I could just ask on that.  Does the administration
plan to go to Congress to authorize any of the strikes that it needs to
take against the Houthis, or do you feel that these don’t need
congressional authorization?

MR. KIRBY:  These — these strikes are being done in keeping with the
President’s Article 2 authorities under the Constitution of — as
Commander-in-Chief and also being conducted in accordance with U.N.
Charter Article 51, self-defense.

Q    On the hostage meeting today that Jake Sullivan is doing, is there
a particular reason for it?  Does he have something to announce to
them?  Is he just reassuring them that you’re still on it?  Or is —
what’s the reason for it?

MR. KIRBY:  We don’t — we don’t have an announcement.  I wouldn’t lead
you to think there’s going to be some announcement coming.  I think it’s
an opportunity to keep the conversation going and to make sure that they
know, from our perspective — and I don’t want to get ahead of Jake here
— but that they know, from our perspective, how — how hard we’re working
to try to get their loved ones back home with them where they belong,
and — and, as I said the other day in the briefing, that we are working
this very, very hard.  There are serious discussions go- — ongoing about
trying to get another hostage deal in place. 

Q    Can we go to yesterday’s meeting after — with congressional
leaders?  Afterwards, Speaker Johnson talked about how he was in touch
with former President Trump.  Does the White House have any concerns
about the influence of the former President on its ability to make a
deal with Congress and how that dynamic works?

MS. DALTON:  Right.  Well, look, I think, as you know, as federal
officials, we can’t speak to Trump as a candidate under the Hatch Act. 

But what I can say is that, as the President has repeatedly said, there
is strong bipartisan agreement on the need for action on the border. 
The President has continued to be clear about that since he introduced
comprehensive immigration reform on day one, since he has continued to
stress his openness to working with congr- — congressional — Senate
Democrats and Republicans together to find compromise and common ground
on the border in good faith, and as he’s consistently asked Congress for
more resources to deal with the border. 

Q    Is —

MS. DALTON:  And so —

Q    Is it possible, though, to act in good faith?  Does —  
  
     MS. DALTON:  Well —  
  
     Q    Does Trump’s presence complicate that in any way?

MS. DALTON:  Look, I think you’ve heard from the President, even this
morning on the South Lawn just a few moments ago.  He believes that our
work with Senate Democrats and Republicans on the border, while we
haven’t reached a final agreement on funding and policy, is moving in
the right direction.  He is optimistic that the conversations are
productive and positive, and we’re going to keep at it. 

But, look, here’s the bottom — bottom line: We’ve, right now, put
forward a national security supplemental request that not — let’s not
forget, if — if Congress is really serious — congressional Republicans
are serious about the border, they could act tomorrow and pass the
President’s request to put a thousand more border agents on the border,
to get a thousand more — over a thousand more law enforcement agents
down on the border to stop the flow of fentanyl.   
  
     But what we’re seeing is, instead, this conversation.  Now, the
President is willing to have this give-and-take, have this conversation,
and work in good faith across the aisle.  But what he would really like
to do is see Republicans reach back across the aisle and seize the
opportunity at hand to work in good faith to come to an agreement here.

(Cross-talk.)  
  
     Q    Given the urgency that — that you spelled out with especially
Ukraine aid, has there been any discussion with Congress on decoupling
these issues, maybe breaking up that — that security supplemental to
deal with these issues separately?

MS. DALTON:  Well, look, I’m not going to get into the private
discussions with Congress. 

But, as you saw yesterday, the President met with key leaders in
Congress to discuss the stakes for Ukraine.  He went around the table,
gave everybody the opportunity to speak.  It was a robust discussion
where everybody had the opportunity to make input.  And you better
believe the President was very clear about the stakes for Ukraine in
this moment, the urgency of that funding.

As you know, I think, the NSA Jake Sullivan, DNI Director Haines both
laid out very clearly and in detailed fashion some specific examples of
what the stakes would be in Ukraine if we weren’t able to get Congr- —
get — get past this point of Congress obstructing the flow of aid to
Ukraine very — very soon. 

And one of the critical things the President underlined was not just
about our concerns with respect to Ukraine and the national security
stakes there but also with respect to what we’ve seen in the past from,
you know, unchecked brutal aggression by dictators.  Learning the
lessons of history, we know that they don’t stop when they are left to
their own devices and left unchecked. 

And so, certainly, the President conveyed a sense of urgency about the
stakes for our — our NATO partners in the region, what — what it would
mean for our NATO partners in the region if — if we don’t get Ukraine
the aid that they need.  And certainly, we don’t want to see, you know,
our own troops put in a position where we might need to put boots on the
ground. 

Q    Olivia, the President said that there’s no sticking points in the
border talks.  So, why don’t we have a deal?  I mean, what’s the next
step there?

MS. DALTON:  Look, I think you heard from the — I’m not going to, you
know, go farther than what the President said this morning.  But as I
just said a moment ago, the President remains very — you know, these
conversations have been productive and they are moving in the right
direction.  The President thinks that those conversations with — that
the — that our team has been having with Senate Democrats and Senate
Republicans has been fruitful so far.  And we’re — we remain, you know,
cautiously optimistic that we’ll get there.

Q    Are we on to you now?  Are we done with Kirby?

MR. KIRBY:  It can be, if you want.  (Laughter.)

Q    I just didn’t want to start asking —  
  
     MS. DALTON:  (Inaudible) —  
  
     Q    — domestic questions if (inaudible).

MS. DALTON:  — J.J. 

Q    Okay.  On electric vehicles.  There has been — with the extreme
weather, there’s been some difficulty in getting those battery charged. 
Do you have any thoughts on that?  As you know, the — the administration
has been really pushing for EVs to be the future of car transportation. 
Do you have any thoughts on the — the troubles with charging those
batteries?

MS. DALTON:  Well, as a car owner, I can promise you that whether you
have a gas-powered vehicle, a hybrid-powered vehicle, and a fully
electric vehicle, extreme weather temperatures impact the — the
functioning of your car.  Right?  So, that is not unique to electric
vehicles. 

And certainly, we are contin- — we’re always concerned about making sure
that electric vehicles — we continue the progress we’re making to make
them affordable and reliable for every American. 

We saw EV sales quadruple <s>last year</s> \[since President Biden took
office\].  We think that’s good progress.  And we want to see that
continue. 

Certainly, again, with respect to some of the — the reporting that we’ve
seen this week in Chicago and elsewhere, we think these are isolated
incidents, but we are looking into them and seeing where we can make an
impact.

Q    Could you say something about the Uvalde report?  In particular,
you know — you know, what can communities do around the country to
prevent this from happening in the future?  And then on the criminal
penalty issue, in particular.

MS. DALTON:  Well, look, so, as I came out here, the Attorney General’s
press conference was still ongoing.  I know the — the President spoke to
this very briefly on the South Lawn just a moment ago to underscore that
we are committed to taking action to address some of the recommendations
that are in — contained in that DOJ report.  And I expect that very
shortly, as soon as that press conference is completed, you will all
receive a more detailed statement from the President.

But without getting ahead of that, I think the report today lays out
very clearly and in heartbreaking detail some of what these families
have been going through for the last two years.  These families — we can
only imagine how today’s report adds to the heartbreak that they’ve
felt. 

And I would just say that, you know, one thing that has been
particularly remarkable about Uvalde and the community here — which, of
course, the President and the First Lady were able to visit in person in
May of 2022 — is how in the immediate aftermath of that they all
traveled to Washington and were a very critical catalyst in the passage
of the Bipartisan Safer Communities Act, which is, today, saving lives. 

They turned their pain into purpose in a very real way and are — are
saving others’ lives today as a consequence of their courageous
advocacy.   
  
     That’s cold comfort to a parent that’s lost a child.  But part of
what you’ll hear from the President in his statement today is a
commitment to moving forward and implementing the lessons learned here
and also making sure that our White House Office of Gun Violence
Prevention is equipped to better support communities in the aftermath of
these attacks going forward.

And I would be remiss if I didn’t add that his perennial call for
Congress to act is really the only, you know, way to stop future Uvaldes
from happening.  We need to see congressional action on a national red
flag law, on universal background checks, on ending assault weapons and
high-capacity magazines, and so much more.

Anybody else?  I think we’re landing, so —

Q    Yeah, you need to get back to your seat.

MS. DALTON:  I think we all do.

Q    On congressional talks.  After yesterday, do you think that the
talks are now close enough for the Senate to vote next week?

MS. DALTON:  I’m not going to make any forecasts.  But I think — as I’ve
said, I think, you know, you’ve heard optimism from the President this
morning that there has been productive conversations with Senate
Democrats and Republicans both.  And we — without, you know, forecasting
or making any predic- — predictions here, you know, we think things are
moving in a positive direction.

So, I’ll leave it there.  See you all.

Q    Thanks, Olivia.

12:59 P.M. EST
