---
date: '2024-01-30'
published_time: 2024-01-30 16:41:46-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/01/30/press-gaggle-by-principal-deputy-press-secretary-olivia-dalton-and-nsc-coordinator-john-kirby-en-route-west-palm-beach-fl/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Olivia Dalton and NSC Coordinator\
  \ John Kirby En Route West Palm Beach,\_FL"
---
 
Aboard Air Force One  
En Route West Palm Beach, Florida

12:03 P.M. EST

MS. DALTON: Good afternoon, everybody. Quickly at the top, there’s news
out this morning that consumer confidence continued to surge this month
as Bidenomics grows the economy from the middle and the bottom up.
Consumer confidence is now at its highest level in more than two years
as Americans feel more optimistic about their personal finances and
inflation expectations are falling.

This is no accident. It’s a direct result of the President’s agenda. In
fact, this morning, we’re headed to Florida where President Biden’s
Investing in America agenda has now led to more than $9 billion in
private sector investment across Florida, as well as $14.5 billion in
federal funding that has already been announced for clean energy and
infrastructure projects across the state.

That includes roads, bridges, transit, rail, airports; $800 million for
better access to clean water; and $2.7 billion to provide affordable,
reliable high-speed Internet to everyone in Florida.

When President Biden entered office, the Florida unemployment rate was
5.9 percent and many small businesses had closed. Today, Florida’s
unemployment rate has dropped to 3 percent with 1.2 million new jobs
created since January 2021. Meanwhile, Floridians have filed 1.8 million
new business applications in the same time period.

Florida residents are also saving money on their healthcare premiums and
prescription drugs, high-speed Internet, and home energy costs. In fact,
more than 4.8 million Florida residents with Medicare will benefit from
the $2,000 yearly cap on out-of-pocket prescription drug costs, a $35
monthly cap per in- — per insulin prescription, and free vaccines. And
an astonishing 4 million Floridians signed up for health insurance
through the Affordable Care Act’s marketplaces during the open
enrollment period for 2024 and will benefit from up to thousands of
dollars per year in savings from lower healthcare premiums.

With that, I’m going to turn it to John to speak to some foreign policy
news this morning.

MR. KIRBY: Hey, everybody. Just a couple of things at the top. National
Security Advisor Jake Sullivan met today with Amir Sheikh Al Thani of
Qatar to discuss the latest between Israel and Hamas in — in Gaza as al-
— as well as also to talk about our continued efforts to try to get a
hostage deal in place. We’re going to have a readout of that
conversation to you all soon here.

Today, Mr. Sullivan is also having a chance to meet with the families of
the Americans that are still being held hostage by Hamas.

And then, finally, I mentioned it the other day — I can’t remember
whether it was yesterday or the day before — about the inaugural meeting
that we’re having with the PRC on this Counternarcotics Working Group.
So, I just wanted to give you a quick little readout that we brought a —
the meeting was today, and we brought a whole delegation of the
government, led by Jen Daskal of the NSC, that included DHS, DOJ, State,
Treasury.

And what was interesting was the PRC reciprocated, and they brought a
whole-of-government delegation as well. So, it was a good set of
discussions.

They committed to cooperate on increased law enforcement coordination to
tackle the distribution and export of precursor chemicals for — for the
opioids that are taking so many lives, to deal with addressing illicit
financing and to increase our information-sharing across the two
governments.

Again, the goal here is to produce concrete and measurable actions that
lead to a reduction in the supply of these precursor chemicals that are
killing, again, so many Americans.

So, that’s a good start, but it is just a start. And there’s a lot more
work to be done. There’s another set of meetings tomorrow. I believe
that Treasury will be sort of leading there in Beijing. But again, a
really good start to — to this — to this process. That’s it.

Q Has the IC come to a conclusion on who was behind the Jordan drone
strike? And if so, can you say which militant group was behind the
strike?

MR. KIRBY: I’m not in a position today to confirm exactly what group is
responsible, Aamer. We’re still working through the analysis.

But as I said the other day, I mean, clearly this is the — the work has
all the hallmarks of — of groups that are backed by the IRGC and, in
fact, by — by Kata’ib Hezbollah as well. So —

Q (Inaudible) why wait 4- — it’s about 48 hours-ish now since the attack
happened. Are you essentially giving these groups the opportunity to
move personnel, move their weaponry out of the way? And what message
does it send by waiting two days to strike back at — at this point?

MR. KIRBY: As — as we said, Aamer, and as the President has said, we’ll
— we’re going to respond. And we’re going to do it really in a way and a
time of our own choosing. And, you know, that’s no different — that’s
not a different approach than we’ve taken in the past.

Q President Biden said this morning that they, as in Iran, are supplying
the weapons that were used in this attack. Does that mean that Iran was
the manufacturer of the drone that was used?

MR. KIRBY: That — Iran — I won’t get into the specifics about the actual
drone. Again, DOD is still working through the forensics of the attack.

But — but we know for a fact that Iran and the IRGC provide these groups
weapons and capabilities. We know for a fact that they have provided
them drones in the past as well. But as for the exact drone that was —
that was involved in this attack, again, DOD is still working through
the forensics on it.

Q Will the President attend the dignified transfer of remain — remains?

MR. KIRBY: The President had an opportunity this morning to speak with
the family members of the three service members who were tragically
killed in this attack. He was grateful for their time.

He expressed to them how proud we all are of their service, how we mourn
and feel this — feel sorrow over their loss, made sure that those
families knew that not only was that service and sacrifice going to be
honored and respected but that they would continue to get the support
that they need as they work through what no family wants to have to go
through. As I said, no Blue Star family wants to become a Gold Star
family.

In that conversation, he also gauged their feelings about him going to
the dignified transfer at Dover on Friday. All of them supported his
presence there. And so, the President will be going to the dignified
transfer on Friday.

Q John, on Israel and the hostage deal. What was the President’s
reaction to Prime Minister Netanyahu voicing some disinterest in
releasing, quote, unquote, “thousands of terrorists” in order to get a
hostage deal done?

MR. KIRBY: The President’s view is we got to continue to do everything
we can to get those hostages out. And he also believes that the work
that we’ve been doing on the ground — Bill Burns, our CIA director;
Brett McGurk, who was just in the region; Secretary Blinken — is — these
have been productive discussions. They’ve been constructive. They — we
believe that we are — that we are — that we’re making progress on trying
to get an extended pause in place so that we can get those hostages out.

And the President is not going to waver on that. That’s what his
commitment is.

Q So, is he disappointed that Prime Minis- — Minister Netanyahu said
those words about not wanting to release thousands of —

MR. KIRBY: I think we’ll let the Prime Minister speak for himself.
There’s no reason for us to change course here. We still believe that
this is the right thing to do.

And we believe that there’s — that there’s — again, I don’t want to
sound too sanguine, but we believe the work has been — has been
productive, and — and we’re going to stay focused on that.

Q So the frame- — the framework hostage deal is still progressing; this
wasn’t a setback at all?

MR. KIRBY: We aren’t looking — we — we believe we continue to make
progress. Let me put it that way.

Q Do you have any clarity on why the drone was able to get to the — get
to the base, why — why that was successful? Was there a mix-up? Do you
have any more clarity on what happened with the attack?

MR. KIRBY: I don’t. I’d point you to the Defense Department to speak to
the — again, they’re doing the forensics to figure out how this
happened, as you would expect they will do, and then — and then — so
that they can learn lessons and try to prevent such an attack in the
future. But I don’t have any more granularity on that.

Q On a two-state solution. The British Foreign Secretary has floated the
idea that it’s time to look at how to recognize the Palestinian state —
what it would comprise, how it would work. Is the U.S. on the same page
there?

MR. KIRBY: Well, look, we’ve been very clear. We want to see a
Palestinian state. The President still believes very strongly in the
promise of a two-state solution. And there’s a lot of work that has to
be done to make that a reality. It’s going to require leadership, again,
on both sides.

But we certainly share the Foreign Minister’s belief in the — in the
importance of moving towards getting an independent Palestinian state —

Q But what does moving —

MR. KIRBY: — with Israel’s security guaranteed.

Q So, what does moving towards that look like? We know you support a
two-state solution. But isn’t it time now to start thinking about how
that would actually work?

MR. KIRBY: We’ve been working on this since almost the — well, the very
— very beginning of the administration. It’s one of the reasons why — I
mean, prior to October 7th, we were working so hard on a normalization
deal between Israel and Saudi Arabia, because we believe that that — it
was — baked into that would have been something for the Palestinians.

And so, we still think there is an opportunity here, and we’re going to
keep pursuing it. We think that that could be a significant milestone
towards getting you closer to a two-state solution.

Q John, the President said when he left the White House that he had
reached a decision on — on the strikes. What is the guiding principle as
he makes this decision? And is it fair to say that these strikes will be
more forceful than the ones that were done previously?

MR. KIRBY: Well, with the caveat that I’m certainly not going to
telegraph punches here or get into specifics of potential future
military operations, to your question: guiding principle is making sure
that we continue to degrade the kinds of capabilities that these groups
have at their disposal to use against our troops and our facilities and
to send a — send a strong signal to their backers and the IRGC that
these attacks are unacceptable.

And we’re going to do — the President will do what he has to do to
protect our troops and our facilities and to look after our national
security — our national security interests in the region.

And I would tell you that, as I said yesterday, we — they have now taken
the lives of three American troops. And so, I think it’s fair for you to
expect that we will — we will respond in an appropriate fashion. And it
— and it is — it’s very possible that what you’ll see is — is a tiered
approach here, not just a single action but potentially multiple actions
—

Q Can you say if it will o- —

MR. KIRBY: — over a period of time.

Q And can you say if it will only be military in its nature? Or is
economic responses, such as sanctions, on the table as well?

MR. KIRBY: Yeah, I don’t think I’m going to get into more detail than
that.

Q On Ukraine aid. Some European leaders sound more pessimistic about the
U.S. providing funding for more Ukraine aid. For example, President
Macron talked about wanting European leaders to be ready to support
Ukraine over the long term if — if U.S. aid doesn’t come through. Is
there some reason why some of these European leaders are sounding more
pessimistic? Do you know? Is there —

MR. KIRBY: You can hardly blame them when they look at what’s going on
on Capitol Hill. We put a supplemental request in place in October for
$60 billion. The number was carefully constructed in concertation with
our Ukrainian counterparts about what they were going to need. You can
hardly blame other leaders around the world from thinking about what
other decisions they have to make now based on the uncertainty that the
United States is going to be able to come through.

And it — and it points precisely to what we’ve been saying before: that
American leadership matters and people do look to us for our example and
for that leadership.

And, you know, again, we’re hopeful — still hopeful, the President is,
that we’re able to get this supplemental funding and we can — can go
back to being the world’s leader in supporting Ukraine.

But, again, I don’t think you can — I don’t — I think other leaders in
Europe and elsewhere can be forgiven for working through in their own
minds how they’re going to be able to support Ukraine should the United
States not be able, thanks to what’s going on on Capitol Hill, to be
able to continue that support.

(Cross-talk.)

Q I just wanted to follow on J.J.’s earlier question on Netanyahu’s
comments earlier. On the optimism for some — for a deal coming together,
where — where’s that space? Because Netanyahu is saying not — no to
thousands of prisoners and they’re going to stay in Gaza. Hamas is
saying a deal has to hinge on lots of prisoners and them being out of
Gaza. So, where — where is the space, I guess?

MR. KIRBY: Again, I can’t speak to the Prime Minister’s public comments.
All I can tell you is the conversations that we have had in just recent
days with our counterparts, including Israel, lead us to believe that —
that — that there’s real potential progress here towards getting a deal
in place for an extended pause that will allow those hostages to get
home.

And I think that’s what the Israeli people want too. They want their
loved ones back with — back in — with their homes and their families
where they belong.

Q Kirby, and just a quick follow-up on —

Q Quickly following up. Are there any plans for the President to speak
with Prime Minister Netanyahu, given his comments and given where things
are with the hostage deal right now?

MR. KIRBY: I don’t have another call on the schedule to speak to.

Q One more — I have one more and a follow-up on that one. So, Hamas has
said that the number of hostages that they would be releasing still has
not been specified in these talks. Is that accurate?

MR. KIRBY: I won’t negotiate here on Air Force One.

Q Can I ask for clarification on some — on a question earlier? Has the
U.S. identified who was behind the attack that killed three American
servicemen?

MR. KIRBY: I — I already answered that question. We’re still — we’re
still working our way through that.

Q But — but the President has decided on his response, he said. So, how
can he decide on his response if you’re still working through that?

MR. KIRBY: I just don’t have anything more to add on that.

Q Can I ask you a question about another part of the world, particularly
that the President, I know, has a lot of interest in? Northern Ireland’s
largest British unionist party agreed to end a boycott, the one — that,
essentially, I think, ends the Belfast government’s standstill. Did the
— has the President taken note of this? And is there any White House
reaction?

MR. KIRBY: We — we welcome that there is progress here. But as we
understand it, there is still some legislation that’s required, and
certainly we’d leave that to the — to the elected  
officials in Northern Ireland to speak to. But as we understand it,
there’s still some legislation that has to be inked before they can get
that forward.

Q Just a quick one on Pakistan. Imran Khan, the former Prime Minister,
was sentenced to 10 years in prison. Is there any concern that the U.S.
has that the Pakistani government may be trying to send a message to his
supporters? He’s obviously not on the ballot, but they do have the — the
upcoming election in February. Does the U.S. have any concern that the
Pakistani government may be trying to target Khan’s supporters through
this sentence?

MR. KIRBY: We see this as an internal judicial matter for the Pakistani
government to speak to. Obviously, as a democracy, just like for any
other country, we want to make sure that elections are free and fair and
that judicial processes are also done, you know, in the most appropriate
manner possible, recognizing an individual’s rights. I think I’d leave
it at that.

(Cross-talk.)

You guys done with me?

Q I’ve got — I’ve got one last question on Sudan, if I may. Given all
the political and diplomatic capital you’re using up in the Middle East,
are you able to bring any pressure on countries like the United Arab
Emirates, who we know are backing the RSF that the U.S. has accused of
ethnic cleansing? Do you have any extra diplomatic clout to put pressure
on the UAE?

MR. KIRBY: I would push back on the notion that we’re somehow so fixated
on what’s going on in the Middle East that we can’t focus on other
places around the world, including Africa. We continue to be engaged
diplomatically to make sure to — to do what we can to see that the
aspirations of the Sudanese people are met and that the — and that the
violence between these two sides stops.

Q Do you have any examples of what you’re doing on that front, including
pressuring the UAE?

MR. KIRBY: You know, I’m sure — I’ll refer you to the State Department
for details, but we continue to work this diplomatically.

All right. Thanks, everybody.

Q I wanted to ask about the border and the President’s statement that he
would shut it down. What does that tech- — I mean, obviously, the bill
would need to pass. But then what technically does that mean? Like, what
would it look like, shutting the border down?

MS. DALTON: Look, I think Karine talked about this quite a bit
yesterday. But this is a president who believes we need action to secure
the border. He’s been working in good faith with Republicans and
Democrats on a negotiated proposal to do just that, to deliver on
meaningful policy reforms and meaningful resources that would allow us
to secure the bor- — border.

Now, I’m not going to get into the particulars of what that proposal
looks like at the end of the day. But, look, this is a — you know, a
president who has unequivocally stated he is committed to securing the
border and working in good faith across the aisle to get it done.

Q On the border deal itself, Speaker Johnson reiterated this morning
that he is against, you know, the Senate deal. However it ultimately
looks, it’s dead on arrival in the House. Does the White House still
think it’s worth pursuing a negotiated deal?

MS. DALTON: I think we’ve unequivocally said yes. And if, you know,
Speaker Johnson is serious about securing the border, which he also said
this morning that he is, then he should work across the aisle with us —
reach back across the aisle in good faith and join us. We’re working
along with Senate Republicans as well as Democrats.

We think that if this proposal that’s on the table was to be enacted, it
would be the most meaningful, fair, significant piece of legislation to
secure the border that we’ve seen in decades.

Q Olivia, on — on the border again. Can you explain a little bit further
why the President doesn’t take some executive actions on the — on the
border himself?

MS. DALTON: Well, I think the President has also been clear that he
needs additional authorities from Congress. And part of what he’s asking
Congress to do here is to deliver those authorities.

I’m not going to get specifically into more of what the bill says down
on the — you know, the line items. But the President has been really
clear: He needs additional authorities to secure the border. And that’s
exactly what he’s asking Democrats and Republicans in Congress to work
with him to deliver.

Q Why not test his executive authority?

MS. DALTON: I’m sorry?

Q Why not test his executive authority, just do it?

MS. DALTON: Look, I think the President has a view — that, by the way,
was shared by Speaker Johnson under the pri- — prior administration —
that he needs a greater authority in order to secure the border and take
action on the border. So, that’s what we’re — we’re looking to do.

Q So, Olivia, is it his position, then, that there’s nothing all the
more that he can do on migration, that this is the limit to his
authority?

MS. DALTON: Look, you heard from the President, I think, on the — just a
moment ago that certainly he feels that there are things that are within
his power, but there are also things that are not within his power that
he’s looking for congressional authority to do in order to step up
border security.

Q But why doesn’t he take — take some of those steps that are within his
power? That’s what I’m asking. Like, there are some things in his power.
Why doesn’t he do those?

MS. DALTON: Look, we’re in the middle of negotiating in good fa- — faith
across the aisle with Democrats and Republicans in the Senate to try and
get this proposal done. I’m not going to get into the particulars of
those conversations and what is or is not on the table.

But, look, we think that there’s no reason we can’t come to a very
significant deal here that, again, would be historic in nature that
would deliver on meaningful reforms and resources that would help us
secure the border. And, you know, that’s the stated goal of both
Republicans and Democrats in Congress.

What’s standing in the way? We don’t think politics should.

Q What’s the White House’s view of this House Homeland Security vote
that we’re expecting today to impeach Mayorkas? You know, they — they
argue that he has refused to enforce immigration laws.

MS. DALTON: I don’t know that I can respond to that any better than
Secretary Mayorkas did in his letter to the committee this morning,
where he laid out extensively everything that he and the Department have
done to be responsive to the committee and their requests — the
testimony, you know, the documentation, all of the things that they have
done to be responsive to this committee.

Now, look, there is an active process underway. President Biden,
Secretary Mayorkas, Senate Democrats and Republicans are actively
talking about bipartisan meaningful policy reforms and resources to help
secure our border. House Republicans could be working with us on that as
part of that effort. Instead, this is what they’re doing today.

We think that the American people would much rather see Democrats and
Republicans working together in Congress, on Capitol Hill, with the
White House to deliver on the — what we need to do, the action that we
need to see to secure the border.

Q Just a quick question for you, Olivia. So, first, the call that the
President had with servicemembers’ families, that was this morning at
the White House?

MS. DALTON: That’s correct.

Q Okay. And when the President goes to Detroit this week, will he be
meeting with Muslim and Arab American leaders when he’s there?

MS. DALTON: We have not confirmed travel — other travel this week.

Q Okay. And is there any other official business that’s taking place on
this trip to Florida?

MS. DALTON: The President has two political events today. I’d refer you
to the campaign to speak in more detail about those. But don’t have any
additional official events to — to discuss on the ground here in Florida
today.

Obviously, the President is continuing to stay in touch, as you’ve
already heard from Admiral Kirby, with his team here — his team on the
ground about the — you know, for critical national security updates;
update- — updates on the border negotiations; economic news, like the
consumer spending data we — we just got this morning; and — and more.

Q Can you tell us any more on the call with the — the Gold Star
families? How much time did he spend on — on the call with them? Did he
have any reaction after the call that he conveyed to staff? And is there
anything you can tell us about what specifically he told the families?

Q And was it three separate calls?

MS. DALTON: I am happy to try to get some more texture from those calls
that took place right before he arrived here. He — he conducted those
calls right before he left the White House this morning. I don’t have a
duration of each of those calls. I’m happy to try to get more that I can
share out of those for you.

But certainly, as Admiral Kirby described, he was — you know, expressed
his deepest sympathies for their loss, his pride in their service, and
his hope that he could be there for their dignified transfer on Friday.

Q And there were three separate calls?

MS. DALTON: I believe so, but let me just come back to you with that.

Q And is the campaign fully reimbursing the White House for today’s
trip, since there are no official events? Do you have any —

MS. DALTON: There are well-established guidelines that we always follow.
We’ve done trips in recent weeks and months that are all political, all
official, or a mix of both. And in every case, we follow the letter of
the law in terms of the cost sharing that — that Counsel dictates.

Q Is that normal protocol, for the President to ask the Gold Star
families if it will be okay for him to attend the dignified transfer?

MS. DALTON: I believe that is normal protocol. Certainly, the DOD and
others could weigh in there, but I — I believe it’s protocol —
certainly, you know, something respectful to — to offer to these
families if they would want the President to be there.

Q And the Federal Reserve is meeting tomorrow. They — you’re going to
have a jobs report on Friday. Do you think we’re going to hear from the
President on the economy this week? And just where does he think the
economy stands now compared to six months ago? And does he have a
personal view on whether interest rates should — should be reduced?

MS. DALTON: You know, I think you — you hear from the President a lot on
the economy. So, I’m not sure that will be any different this week. But
I don’t have any specific sets of remarks to announce at this moment in
time.

Certainly, we think it’s a huge deal that consumer spending continued —
or consum- — consumer confidence continued to grow today for the third
month straight. It’s a good sign that people are starting to feel the
impact of the economic progress we’ve — we’ve been seeing and are
starting to really internalize that.

Q Can you talk a little bit about the decision with this trip today to
go to, particularly, Jupiter, which is kind of one of the hearts of
Florida — Trump country in that Trump has a golf course there. Is the
President taking a — I don’t know — maybe a little pleasure in tweaking
the former President a little bit about going into his home turf?

MS. DALTON: I can’t speak too — too much in depth to the — these
campaign events since I wasn’t involved in planning them or putting them
together. So, I’d refer you to the campaign there. I just don’t want to
get too close to — to crossing the Hatch Act line here.

Q But has the President told you — have you spoken to the President
about — about these stops and has he said anything about whether he
plans to say something about Trump?

MS. DALTON: I would leave it to the President to speak to this. I
cannot, as a federal official, speak about campaign events,
unfortunately.

Q There are reports that a House Democrat is being investigated by DOJ.
Any White House comment or reaction?

MS. DALTON: (Inaudible.)

Q There’s a House Democrat being investigated by the DOJ — conflicting
reports on who exactly. Any — has the White House been following this?
Any comment or reaction? I think it’s Cori Bush.

MS. DALTON: We’re seeing the same news that you are. But certainly, on
anything related to a DOJ investigation, would refer you to them, as
they’re independent in this respect.

Q President Donald Trump has been nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize
for his work on the Abraham Accords. Do you have any response?

MS. DALTON: Other than this is news to me, I — I had not heard that yet.
But no, I don’t — I don’t necessarily have a — have an immediate comment
or reaction to that from you — for you.

Anything else? Okay. See you, guys.

Q Is there someone from the campaign on the trip?

MS. DALTON: Sorry?

Q Is there someone on the camp- — from the campaign on the trip who
might gaggle?

MS. DALTON: I’ll see who’s on the ground.

Q Okay. Great.

12:29 P.M. EST
