---
date: '2024-01-16'
published_time: 2024-01-16 17:38:31-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/01/16/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-nsc-coordinator-for-strategic-communications-john-kirby-38/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and NSC Coordinator for\
  \ Strategic Communications John\_Kirby"
---
 
Via Teleconference

1:42 P.M. EST

OPERATOR: Please note at this time all audience members are in “listen
only” mode to minimize background noise. There will be Q&A during this
call. If you would like to ask a question, please press “#2” on your
telephone keypad to be placed in the question queue.

I would now like to formally begin today’s call and introduce Karine
Johnson \[Jean-Pierre\], the White House Press Secretary. Please go
ahead.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: My name is Karine Jean-Pierre, but thank you so much
for the intro.

I just want to say one thing at the top really quickly is just to thank
the team here for putting this — my team here for putting this together.
As you all know, it gets — technology can be a little glitchy, so I
appreciate the team for turning this around.

And with that, I just also want to say please be patient with us. We are
going to try to make this — the White House press briefing as — as
smooth as possible. So, really appreciate all of your patience.

I have a couple of updates on the President’s week ahead. So, tomorrow,
the President — President Biden will host congressional leaders from the
Senate and the House, along with key committee leaders and ranking
members at the White House to discuss the critical importance of his
national security supplemental request. So, we’ll — we will certainly
have more to say about that meeting tomorrow. So, please stay tuned.

And this Thursday, the President will travel to Raleigh-Durham area of
North Carolina, known as the “Research Triangle,” to discuss how his
Bidenomics and Investing in America agenda are repairing and rebuilding
infrastructure, lowering costs for families, supporting a small-business
boom, and creating good-paying jobs.

Under the Biden administration, companies have announced $31 billion in
private-sector clean energy and manufacturing investments in North
Carolina alone.

And in North Carolina, President Biden’s Investing in America agenda has
so far helped more than 4,300 childcare programs continue operating
during the pandemic to provide critical childcare for over 380,000
children, helped more than 2,500 restaurants weather the pandemic and
keep employees on the payroll, helped 880,000 households across the
state save money on Internet bills, and provided 2.1 million Medicare
beneficiaries with access to prescription drug cost savings.

On Thursday, the President will talk about how we continue to build on
this and delivering for families, workers, and businesses across North
Carolina.

And with that, I will turn it over to my NSC colleague, Admiral John
Kirby, who will discuss the latest in the Middle East.

Admiral, the floor is yours.

MR. KIRBY: Thank you, Karine. Lots to go over here since the last time
we all talked.

I just wanted — a couple of things — first, on the schedule — to talk to
you: The President spoke today with Chancellor Scholz of Germany as part
of our close coordination, of course, with Germany on a range of
important issues. And that includes, of course, supporting Ukraine and
the importance of that support ongoing.

Now, you may know that Jake Sullivan, our National Security Advisor, is
in Davos today. He delivered a public address, and he’s had the chance
to meet with some foreign leaders.

Both he and Secretary Blinken met together with President Zelenskyy
again to keep talking about the importance of continued global
assistance for Ukraine.

But individually, Jake had a chance to meet with the Prime Minister of
Qatar about our urgent efforts to release the remaining hostages that
Hamas is holding, as well as meeting separately with the Prime Minister
of Iraq and the Prime Minister of Iraq’s Kurdistan region. We’ll, of
course, have more readouts available on those meetings shortly.

On the Middle East specifically, as you know, we’re now over 100 days
since those terrorist attacks on the 7th of October. And over the
weekend, the President wrote — spoke to this, including a heartfelt
statement on the grief and suffering that the families of those hostages
have now felt every single day since the 7th of October.

And we have not stopped our efforts to try to bring them home. In fact,
Brett McGurk was in Doha this \[last\] week, focused specifically on the
hostage situation and on trying to move forward new proposals to bring
them home. This will remain a top priority for us.

Meanwhile, this weekend, Hamas released videos of three hostages,
including one young woman who was supposed to be released in the
original deal, but, at the last minute, Hamas refused to do so, saying
that it would hold young women hostage in direct violation of the deal
that they had negotiated. And then, they later released a video showing
the remains of two other hostages as a reminder of their cruelty and
barbarism.

Now, on the military front, I would just like to point — point you, if
you haven’t seen it, to important statements from Israeli’s Defense
Minister yesterday that Israel will now shift to a low — or, I’m sorry,
has now shifted to a low-intensity phase in North Gaza, and it will soon
do so in southern Gaza as well.

They announced the withdrawal of a division — an army division from Gaza
as part of the shift to lower-intensity ops. And as they undergo this
transition, we are preparing to increase the humanitarian assistance in
to those people who need it, as well as to help set the conditions for
the population to return to North Gaza, where the U.N. hopes to be able
to conduct assessment missions over the coming week.

So, we’re making these preparations because we believe that these
lower-intensity operations inside Gaza should be able to not only allow
for a reduction in civilian casualties but a more reliable distribution
of aid over the coming period.

As a matter of fact, our envoy, David Satterfield, and our ambassador,
Jack Lew, are meeting today with Israeli senior leadership and senior
military commanders at their Southern Command to discuss all these
issues.

And then, just lastly, again, on the humanitarian crisis. The images
coming out of Gaza continue to be heartbreaking and painful. As the
President has said, every innocent life lost is one too many. We don’t
want to see any more civilian casualties.

Now, Israel, of course, has a right to defend itself. But Hamas also
continues to be an active threat to Israel, and its leaders have vowed
to repeat the attacks of the 7th of October again and again and again.
Just yesterday, Hamas took credit for the brutal murder of an Israeli
grandmother who was stabbed to death in her car.

But again, we’ve encouraged Israel, particularly now as it shifts to
this new phase, to do so, in terms of their operations, as surgically
and as precisely as possible to minimize those casualties.

And we’re also, at the same time, focused on increasing the flow of
trucks into Gaza.

I’ll end with this. And that’s that, just today, we were able to get 228
trucks into Gaza over those two crossings. Again, not enough. But we’re
trying to keep the level at above 200, if we can.

Now, a big hindrance to that, of course, is the — is the fighting
itself, which is why the Israel Defense Minister’s comments about
switching to lower-intensity operations could — could have a dramatic
effect on our ability to do that.

And, with that, I’ll turn it back over.

AIDE: Host, I think we’re ready to go to questions.

OPERATOR: All right. As a reminder, if you would like to ask a question,
please press “#2” on your phone to be placed in the question queue. You
will share your notification when your line is unmuted. Please then
state your name and question. If your question is answered before your
turn, pressing the “#2” a second time will take you out of the queue.

Moving on to our first question.

Caller, please go ahead.

Q Hey, guys. It’s — it’s Justin from Bloomberg. I had one for Karine and
— and one for Kirby.

Karine, on the meeting tomorrow, is that a signal that — that the
President has and negotiators have gotten close on a deal for Ukraine
aid and immigration changes? Or is this, kind of, a chance to them — for
them to work out final details? Or are we just not there yet at all?

And then, Kirby, I was wondering if you could talk about, kind of, the
state of the situation with the Houthis. Obviously, we saw more attacks
in the last couple of days and a response today by the U.S. Is this a
signal that the first round of — of strikes by the U.S. and the UK
didn’t achieve their desired effects? Are you looking at all at, kind
of, expanding our effort to a new target set using special forces at all
— any sort of expansion? Or do you still, kind of, see this as headed in
the direction that you’d hoped for?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Hey, Kirby, you want to take that question — your
question?

MR. KIRBY: Yes, sure. I just wanted to defer to you since the first one
was to you, but I’m happy to do that.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: No, I appreciate it. And, Justin, I’ll — we’re just
going to let Kirby go. And then I’ll — certainly will — I’ll answer that
question once Kirby is done with the Middle East pieces. Thanks.

Q Sure.

MR. KIRBY: Okay. So, look, Justin, you’re right. We — we have seen some
additional lower- — lower-scale retaliatory strikes by the Houthis in
the last few days — much smaller than  
— than what we had seen before and none of them effective.

And I will tell you, you know, we fully anticipated, when we launched
the — that salvo on Friday night, that — that the Houthis would probably
conduct some retaliatory strikes.

So, I — I think it’s — it’s too soon to call this some sort of a trend
that would lead us to believe that we didn’t have the — a good effect
with those strikes. We believe that we did have a good effect with those
strikes in terms of disrupting and degrading their capability to conduct
military offensive operations.

As for what the next turn is here, I simp- — I won’t get ahead of
potential military operations one way or the other.

As you saw today, we took additional strikes knocking out four ballistic
missiles that we believe were prepped and ready to be launched from
Yemen, took them out before they could do that. So, we have said before,
we’ll say it again: We stand ready to defend our interests, our sailors,
our ships, and that of merchant shipping as required.

We’re not looking for a war. We’re not looking to expand this. The
Houthis have a choice to make, and they still have time to make the
right choice, which is to stop these reckless attacks.

AIDE: Host, we’re going to go to the next question. We’ll come back
around to questions for Karine after Kirby’s portion.

OPERATOR: All right. Moving on to our next caller in queue. Steve
Holland with Reuters, please go ahead.

Q Hey, John. You mentioned the — Brett McGurk in Doha on hostages. What
— could you give us any details on that? Is he seeking a pause in the
fighting in exchange for hostages? How close are they to a deal? What —
what’s going to happen?

And you mentioned that the Israelis have shifted to a low phase in
Northern Gaza. What are the prospects for that taking place across all
of Gaza?

MR. KIRBY: Thanks, Steve. So, on the — a new hostage deal, what I can
tell you is that we’re working on this very, very diligently. That is
why Brett was in Doha this past week.

I don’t want to get ahead of where we are. But we are having, I would
say, very seri- — serious and intensive discussions in Qatar about the
possibility for another deal.

Obviously, I want to be careful I don’t say too much publicly here as we
have these — these talks. But we’re hopeful that it can bear fruit and
bear fruit soon, because there’s still, you know, over 100 — about 140
hostages still being held.

As for the — the — yo- — your question about whether their shift to
lower-intensity operations can — you know, how fast that will spread
across Gaza, that’s really not a question I’m qualified to answer. The
Israeli Defense Forces are — are much better to speak to that.

They just announced yesterday, as I said in my opening statement, the
removal of a division — a full — a full division of army troops from —
from Gaza. We think that’s a positive step forward, in terms of getting
to lower-intensity ops. We hope that it will allow for the movement back
into North Gaza, because, really, the bulk of the — of the operations
are being conducted in the — in the south right now.

So, we hope that this removal of these troops and this announced
transition that they’ve made, that it will allow for people to flow back
into North Gaza, alleviate some of that pressure in the south,
particularly around Khan Younis. And we’ll see where it goes from there.
But again, I — I wouldn’t want to get ahead of Israeli military
planning.

Q Thanks, John.

MR. KIRBY: Yes, sir.

OPERATOR: All right. Moving on to our next question in queue. Weijia
Jiang with CBS, please go ahead.

Q Hi, there. Thank you, guys, for doing this. And thank you, Kirby. I
have a question about the continued attacks in the Red Sea. So, you said
today that you’ve seen that they are smaller in scale. Today, obviously,
the strike on the Maltese carrier did not result in any injuries.

Can you verify how many injuries have been reported in these now 30-some
attacks on commercial vessels? And if it’s none, can you help me
understand, if these are missiles, why, how there haven’t been more
injuries? I imagine the crew sizes are small. But when I hear “missile
strikes,” I expect there to be more injuries. So, if you could just help
me process that.

MR. KIRBY: Weijia, what I’ll do is I’ll take your question and see if we
can get a better answer, maybe from Central Command. I don’t have a list
of casualties from these merchant ships. That’s not the kind of thing —
I don’t think we’re centrally tracking that. But don’t take that to the
bank.  
Let me talk to CENTCOM and see if they’ve got some sort of figures for
you.

You’re right. I mean, I — I would — a couple of things here. Number one,
most of these missile attacks and drone attacks have been ineffective.
You’re right. There was a hit today, but no injuries caused. No real
significant damage to the ship, by the way.

Most of the attacks are — are knocked out of the sky before they can get
to — to the targets. And a good many of these missile and drone attacks
have simply missed. Particularly, the ballistic missiles have just
fallen harmlessly into the water without hitting a ship. So, that’s one
reason why I think that the numbers haven’t been dramatic.

Number two, you named it. I think you’re — you know, it’s a — it’s a
fair point. I mean, a lot of merchant ships today don’t have large
crews. It’s not like a Navy ship where you — you know, you’d have
hundreds of sailors aboard a destroyer or thousands aboard an aircraft
carrier. These large merchant ships, there’s a lot of automation, and
they simply don’t have big crews. That’s probably one reason as well.

And then they’re also — they’re very big ships. And so, even if one were
to take a hit, like the one today, depending on where it is struck may
have little to no impact or certainly a — not a significant impact on
that ship’s ability to continue to — to transit safely.

So, again, they’re — they’re very big ships. A lot of their freeboard —
what we call the — the space between the water level and the top of the
side of the ship, that’s called freeboard — can be very, very high,
depending on what — how much freight they’re holding.

So, there’s probably a lot of reasons for that. But let me — let me take
it back and see if we can give you a better figure on the — on the data.

Q Okay. So, given what you just said, Kirby, and given the fears of
escalation that the conflict will expand, can you explain why the
retaliatory strikes are still worth it?

MR. KIRBY: Our retaliatory strikes or theirs?

Q The U.S.’s and our allies’. Essentially, if it’s —

MR. KIRBY: Because —

Q — if their strikes aren’t really having that much of an impact and
they’re not causing injuries and there is a concern that, you know,
retaliatory strikes will widen the war, just, you know, why is it still
—

MR. KIRBY: Because —

Q — worth it?

MR. KIRBY: Because we believe by taking away some of their capability,
degrading that capability, which we think we did on Friday, can have an
impact on — on the effectiveness of future strikes. By taking away —
degrading some of their capability, certainly makes it harder for them
to conduct these strikes.

And just because there hasn’t been a catastrophically successful one
yet, thanks to a lot of great work by the U.S. Navy and — and allied and
partner navies, doesn’t mean that — that we can just turn a blind eye
and sit back and — and do nothing. We want these attacks to stop.

We warned the Houthis not to conduct them. They continued to conduct
them. So, we took action on Friday night to — to — to more significantly
degrade their capability to do that.

And as we’ve said before, Weijia, we — we — while we won’t telegra- —
telegraph future punches, we’re — we’re not going to — we’re not going
to hesitate to take further action if — if needed.

Q Thank you.

MR. KIRBY: Yes, ma’am.

OPERATOR: All right. Moving on to our next question in queue. Zeke
Miller with AP, please go ahead.

Q Thanks for doing this. On Friday, the President said that he believed
the Houthis were a terrorist organization. And I was wondering, John,
can you give us an update on the — if there will be an FTO
redesignation.

And then, separately, do you have anything on these reported Iranian
strikes inside Pakistan? Does the U.S. believe that — that those
increases the risk for a broader regional escalation? Thank you.

MR. KIRBY: Zeke, nothing to update you on the FTO designation. As I said
earlier, we’re still reviewing that process — or we’re still in the
process of reviewing it, no decisions made. So, no updates for you.

Are you — I’m not aware of Iranian strikes into Pakistan. Are you — are
you talking about their strikes in the — in and near Erbil in Iraq?

Q Sorry. Yeah. It’s — there’s a report that Iran says that it launched
attacks today into mili- — what it calls militant bases in Pakistan. I’m
going to skip the pronunciation on it. It’s Jaish al-Adl that — it
follows the attacks, obviously, in — in Iraq and Syria.

MR. KIRBY: Okay. Gotcha. Let me get back to you on that one, Zeke. I was
not tracking strikes into Pakistan today. But we’ll — we owe you an
answer. We’ll get back to you.

OPERATOR: All right. Moving on to our next question in queue. Anita
Powell with Voice of America, please go ahead.

Q Thank you so much, John. I hope you’re keeping warm today. I have two
Red Sea questions.

First of all, on this deal between Ethiopia and the breakaway Somali
province of Somaliland. Does the White House see this as a threat to
U.S. national security, especially in light of recent troubles in the
Red Sea? And what can or will Washington do to calm the situation?

And then just going back to something you said about the Houthis, how
we’re not looking to expand this conflict. How do you square that with
the mission of degrading their capabilities? I mean, how is that not
expanding this conflict?

MR. KIRBY: Well, on — on the second question, I mean, by — by — it’s —
it’s a very simple equation: By — by removing military capability from
the Houthis, we are making it harder for them to conduct these attacks.
These attacks have been escalatory. These attacks have been dangerous.
These attacks have affected merchant shipping in the Red Sea, one of the
most important international waterways around the world.

So, the very act of taking these strikes, knocking out their capability
— in some cases before they could use it — that is, by definition,
taking the tensions down. You’re taking — you’re taking the ability for
them to conduct these attacks off the table.

And, again, we reserve the right to continue to do that as appropriate
to prevent them from causing more mayhem and — and more danger to — to
merchant ships and merchant sailors.

On Ethiopia and Somaliland, we’re certainly troubled now by what
reportedly included in a memorandum of understanding between Ethiopia
and Somaliland. As we’ve said many, many times we support Somali’s —
Somalia’s sovereignty, their territorial integrity, and it’s got to be
respected.

So, we’re engaging with partners in the region. We certainly welcome
efforts by the African Union and the Intergovernmental Authority on
Development, otherwise known as IGAD, to help lessen tens- — lessen the
tensions.

What we’re particularly concerned about is that this MOU recently now
inked between Ethiopia and Somaliland threatens to disrupt the fight
that Somalis, Africans, and regional international partners, including
us, are waging against al-Shabaab. And al-Shabaab remains a viable
terrorist threat in the region, without question.

So, look, the — we don’t believe that the region can afford any more
conflict. We don’t think this MOU is moving this in the right direction.
And we’ll keep raising that, not only with partners there in the Horn of
Africa but — but also elsewhere.

Q So, just to press you on. Is that a threat to U.S. national security,
then, this — this possibility that Shabaab may — may rise?

MR. KIRBY: It certainly — it certainly could directly impact national
security interests in the region, without question, because we — we hold
al-Shabaab as a continued foreign terrorist organization, continued
dangerous threat to our interests and the interests of our partners.

So, there — there could be a U.S. national security threat posed by the
language in this MOU, which is why we’re deeply concerned about it.

Q Thank you.

MR. KIRBY: Yep.

OPERATOR: All right. Moving on to our next question in the queue.
Aurelia End with AFP, please go ahead.

Q Hi. Thanks so much for taking my question. I have two questions about
Ukraine. The first one is a pretty simple one. Can you say that, as of
now, there is no U.S. assistance anymore going to Ukraine, that it’s de
facto over? And second question: Can you give us a sense of the
conversation Jake Sullivan had with President Zelenskyy in Davos? What
were the concerns he raised, what was the message, et cetera? Thank you
so much.

MR. KIRBY: On your first question, our last security assistance package
was authorized on the 27th of December. Now, I would have to refer you
to the Pentagon to talk to you about each of the items in that package
and — and where they are in the shipment process. I don’t know if every
single thing in that package has actually arrived in Ukraine.

As you know, sometimes it takes as little as a few days. Sometimes it
takes a couple of weeks or more for — for material to get to Ukraine.

But that was the last one. There isn’t another one in the works right
now or being scheduled for announcement or delivery. We meant it when we
said it at the time, that that was the last one for which we had
replenishment authority. And there’s — there’s not another one in the —
in the — in the works right now.

And that is why it’s so, so important for us to get this national
security supplemental funding for Ukraine so that we can keep that aid
going, as it’s clear that the Russians continue to want to strike
civilian infrastructure and continue to carry on the war inside Ukraine.

I — I don’t have anything more on the specific discussion with President
Zelenskyy. I think the State Department put out a readout of that
discussion since it was Secretary Blinken who — who had that meeting
with President Zelenskyy. Jake was — was certainly in attendance.

But they did talk about the importance of, you know, continuing the
global assistance to support Ukraine and, of course, the — the — they
also talked about what’s going on on the battlefield, how Zelenskyy sees
the — the effort.

And, as you know, he was also in Davos — Zelenskyy — talking about this
peace formula of his. So, that — that too came up, the idea of — of
trying to help operationalize and internationalize the — the peace
formula that President Zelenskyy put forward.

But, again, I’d point you to the State Department readout for more.

OPERATOR: All right. Moving on to our next question in queue. Selina
Wang with ABC News, please go ahead.

Q Thank you, Admiral. Just going back to the question on the strikes.
Has the battle damage assessment of the first airstrikes been completed
when it comes to the strikes last week against the Houthis? Just how
much has the U.S. degraded the military capabilities, and what does it
say about the degradation given that the retaliatory attacks from the
Houthis have continued? Does it show that it only made a small dent in
capacity?

MR. KIRBY: I’d refer you to the Pentagon to speak to the battle damage
assessment, Selina. They’re really the right ones to go to for that. And
I don’t know the final status of that.

As I said earlier, even before we conducted these strikes, we had every
expectation that the Houthis would still maintain some capability and
would probably retaliate in some form or fashion. The — the strikes were
designed to degrade and disrupt their military activity: their ability
to store, launch, and to guide these missiles to their targets, as well
as the drones that they have launched against these targets.

We believe that we had good effects. But the specifics of the BDA —
battle damage assessment — is really something for the — the Pentagon to
speak to. But at no time, even that night, did we say that all of the
Houthis’ offensive capability were going to be eliminated by those
strikes.

Again, the Houthis have a choice to make. We know they still have some
capability. They have a choice to make about what they do with that
capability. If they choose to keep conducting these attacks, we will
continue to defend against them and counter them as appropriate, even as
we did today, hitting four ballistic missiles on launchers before they
could be sent — sent on — sent on their way.

Q Just to follow up on that. As the retaliation continues from the
Houthis, just how far is the U.S. willing to go? And on a secondary
topic, is there any update on the search for the U.S. Navy SEALs?

MR. KIRBY: Well, again, with the caveat that I’m not going to telegraph
punches or speak about potential military operations, I would point you
to that last sentence in the President’s statement Friday night. We will
not hesitate to take further actions to defend ourselves, our interests,
those of our allies and partners, certainly not our ships and our
sailors. So, as we’ve proven again today, we will not hesitate to take
action as appropriate.

Again, the Houthis have a choice here to make, and the right choice is
to stop these attacks.

I don’t have an update for you on the — the search efforts for those —
those two Navy sailors that are in the water. As I understand it this
morning — and I did check in with the Pentagon on this — that search is
ongoing. But what that looks like, how much longer, I — I — really,
that’s a question better put to the — to the Defense Department.

Our thoughts and prayers are with those two sailors and their families,
who are waiting anxiously for word. And obviously, we’ll — we’ll monitor
as closely as we can.

OPERATOR: All right. Moving on to our last question.  
M.J. Lee with CNN, please go ahead.

Q Hey, Admiral. Thank you. Just given that Hamas has released these new
hostage videos, which you referenced before, and the IDF is continuing
to attempt hostage rescue operations, I wondered whether the U.S. has
received any new intelligence on the six American hostages in recent
days and, at this point, whether the U.S. believes that they are alive.

MR. KIRBY: Thanks, M.J. I — I don’t know of any additional tactile
information that we have received about those six Americans that we
still believe are being held hostage. We’re obviously working and
continue to work very hard to get them released. But I’m not aware of
any additional information that we have. And — and I think you can
understand that — that even if I — I did have additional context to
provide, we’d o- — we’d obviously be very careful about what we shared
publicly as we’re trying to get those folks home to their families.

I — I just — your — your question does give me a good punctuation point
before I sign off today, and that’s that, just as I mentioned at the
top, with Brett being in the region just last week in Doha, we continue
to work this very, very hard.

I — I know it doesn’t always rise to the — to the level of the headlines
of the day. And — and we don’t talk about it a lot, nor should we. But I
don’t want to leave anybody with the impression that we aren’t working
this very, very hard to try to get those folks home with their family —
all of them — all the hostages, but with a particular key focus for us
on those — on those half a dozen Americans that we believe are still
being held.

Thanks.

Q Sorry, before you go, can I just ask one more follow-up? I know you’ve
gotten a couple of questions about the situation in the Red Sea, but I
wondered whether the administration, at this point, would still, sort
of, characterize the phase that we are in now as the administration
wanting to contain the conflict in the region. Or rather, would you say
that the conflict in the region has now officially widened? I mean,
given that there — there have now been additional U.S. strikes,
additional Houthi attacks, so this does seem like now a prolonged
conflict.

MR. KIRBY: Well, the — let’s — let’s — I mean, I think it’s important to
— to categorize what’s happening here.

First of all, the strike that we took Friday, no matter what the Houthis
might say, has nothing to do with the fight in Gaza. It has to do with
defending shipping in the Red Sea, no matter what the Houthis say.
They’re not going after ships that are tied to Israel. You know, they
hit — just the other day, they hit a ship carrying Russian oil. It was
Panamanian flag, nothing to do with Israel.

So, I — I don’t — I think we need to not buy into the Houthi propaganda.
That’s one.

We still have an interest in not seeing this conflict widen or escalate.
In fact, that’s why we took those strikes on Friday to degrade Houthi
capability so that it — so that it can’t widen and escalate. We still
have that interest. We’re still working to that end, even as we work to
continue to make sure Israel has what it needs to defend itself.

OPERATOR: All right. I would like to hand this back over to Karine. But
before I do, if you would like to ask a question, please press “#2” to
be placed in the question queue. If your question is answered before
your turn, pressing “#2” a second time will take you out of the queue.

Karine.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Fantastic. Thank you so much. And, Admiral, thank you
for your time. Appreciate you being on the call with us today.

And also, guys, I — I know this is not the best, but we wanted to make
sure folks didn’t have to come in today with this weather. And
hopefully, folks are — are safe at home — or, wherever you are, being
safe today with this weather.

I do want to start off by going to Justin’s question that he asked of me
— and I just wanted to make sure I did that — as it relates to the
meeting that the President is having tomorrow here at the White House
with congressional ranking members and leaders to talk about the very
important supplemental request that this president made, as you know, a
couple — couple months ago, at this point.

Look, that supplemental request is obviously — continues to be a top
priority, including — right? — to secure our border, including to — to
help Ukraine defend itself against Putin’s ty- — tyranny, as we all
know, as we — you all have covered for almost two years now.

And I will say that while the President is having this really important
meeting tomorrow, negotiations on a bipartisan agreement on the border —
as it includes funding and policy — are still ongoing. So, that is — we
believe is headed in the right direction, the right track. And so — and
we’re going to continue to say — right? — Congress should act. They
should act quickly. You know, this is about securing our border. This is
about our national security. And the consequences of congressional
inaction would be severe.

So, the President, yes, is going to have this all-important
conversation, he believes, on the supplemental requests.

Obviously, as it relates to our national security, the negotiations
continue. And so, that is also really important. A bipartisan agreement
is needed, and — and so, we’re doing those negotiation on the Senate
level, as you — as you all know.

I think I’m just going to go to AP.

I don’t know if that’s Zeke or somebody else.

Q Thanks, Karine. It’s Zeke. I was hoping — you just called the meeting
tomorrow an “all-important meeting.” (Inaudible) to why tomorrow? You
know, obv- — you know, it’s January 16th. Why hasn’t the President asked
the congressional leaders and the community leaders over to the White
House sooner?

Secondly, is the meeting focused on negotiations — to piggyback off of
Justin’s question — or is it about the stakes should this funding not be
approved? You know, will it be a classified meeting or will it be, you
know, in the Sit Room or will it be in the Oval? Any color you can
offer.

And then on a different topic —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q — entirely, I was hoping you could address the situation in Texas over
the weekend. And that — right now, do you do you believe — or does the
federal government control the southern border or does the state of
Texas?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Okay. Both very, very good questions. Look, to — as it
relates to what the meeting is going to look like, where it’s going to
be, we’re going to have more information about the meeting tomorrow
later today. So, just stay tuned. Don’t have the specifics on that.

And, look, as I said at the top, this is going to be about discussing
criti- — critical importance of — of the President’s national security
supplemental request, and so it is going to be about the supplemental
request.

And I’ll just say this. Look, I’ve said a couple of times at the
briefing room and to all of you how the President’s team, obviously the
Office of Leg Affairs, and other members of his White House team have
been in direct contact and communi- — regular communications with
members of Congress and their staff.

And the President has had conversations with congressional members. As
you know, we don’t read out every — every call or every meeting that he
has. He’s had a very longstanding relationship with many members on the
Hill as VP, as senator, obviously.

So, yeah, there’s — he’s had conversations with them. I think he wanted
to bring folks together because — yeah, we talk about the supplemental.
They’re urgency requests — the national security requests are urgent.
And so, the President wanted to bring everybody together to have that
conversation.

But negotiations are still happening. The border security negotiations
are still happening. And the President certainly has entrusted his team
to have those conversations, as he’s done many, many times before. So,
we’ll certainly have more to share about tomorrow, about what that’s
going to look like.

Look, as it relates to — to Texas, let me just say a couple of things at
the top, because I think it’s important. And you all have heard me say
this about what Governor Abbott continues to do. All of his — you know,
what he’s doing at the border, his policies, how he’s getting involved,
it’s extreme — right? — it’s extreme political stunts.

And I’ve said this over and over again, we have said this: It demonizes
and dehumanizes people, and — but it also makes the job of the Border
Patrol harder. And it also is — it’s more dangerous. That’s what we’re
seeing.

And there’s been multiple actions that this governor has taken, right?
Blocking Border Patrol from accessing the border, that’s a problem. When
he’s — when he’s ac- — when he’s blocking them and putting Texas
officials, then he’s taking away the duties of what the Border Patrol
are supposed to do.

And so, it is a problem. Leaving migrants on the side of the road during
winter — you’ve heard me say that; installing razor wire to make Border
Patrol’s job more dangerous; promoting extreme and unconstitutional
laws, like SB4.

So, he could — he continues to prove that he’s not interested — he’s not
really interested in solutions, only seeking to politicize the border.

So, you know, to answer your question, Zeke, look, right now, Texas —
the Texas officials are preventing Border Patrol agents from doing their
job in that particular area by the border. So, that is a problem. That
is a problem.

Just waiting for the next question then.

OPERATOR: All right. Moving on to our next question in queue. Steve
Holland with Reuters, please go ahead.

Q Hey there, Karine.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Hey, Steve. Hey, hey.

Q The President — the — hey, hey. The President told us on the South
Lawn on Friday that he was in favor of significant alterations on the
border. Could you fill out that out? What is he talking about there? And
— and are they going to get into this level of detail in their talks
tomorrow?

And then I just had a second thing. Did the President watch any of the
Iowa coverage last night? Did he make any observations about it?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: All right. So, a couple of things. I’ll start with your
first question first. Look, you know, the President has — had said and
we’ve been saying that we need a bipartisan agreement. Right? We need a
bipartisan agreement to deal with what’s happening at the border.

There’s been detailed, specific conversation happening in the Senate
with both Republicans and Democrats for the past several weeks through
the holiday, obviously, and that continues. We think they’re going in
the right direction.

And those — those conversations are focused on funding and also on
policy.

Yes, the President believes that we’re going to have — to really — in
order to have a bipartisan agreement, you have to make, you know,
changes. I’m not going to get into what those changes are, how severe or
specific or however — however we what to — we want to describe it are at
this time.

But those conversations are happening. We believe it’s going well. And
we want to see a bipartisan agreement.

Look, we understand, the President understands that this — this — what
we see at the border, the immigration system more broadly, has been
broken for decades — for decades. That’s why he took it very seriously
on day one with the legislation that he put forward.

Now we have to have serious conversations, which we have been, with both
Republicans and Democrats in the Senate to see what we can do to — to
address this — the issue at the border.

And so, tomorrow, I’m — I’m not going to get ahead of — of the meeting.
I don’t really know how specific it’s going to get. I can tell you the —
on the agenda is to talk about the President’s supplemental — the
national security portion, obviously, of the supplemental, and how
important it is to get moving on that.

But, no, I’m not going to get into details or specifics of — of what —
how — how granular they’re going to get at all in that meeting. But it
is going to be important. And we’ll have more for all of you to share on
that.

As it relates to the caucuses — the Iowa caucus, I want to be really
careful, as all you know, is that I’m a federal employee — employee,
obviously. So, I’m not going to comment on the upcoming election — 2024
election.

What I can say — I know folks had this question. You know, the President
was here last night at the White House. As it relates to if he’s seen it
or not, of course, I’m sure he’s — he’s seen the coverage of the Iowa
caucus. I don’t have anything specific to share on that.

And I — I also want to lift this up too. Yesterday, you saw the
President — some of you traveled with us. We were in Philly. We went to
Philabundance.

And I think it’s important to — to lay out what’s — what’s important to
this President. Right? He went to a not-for-profit food bank that serves
the Philly — the Philadelphia and also the Delaware Valley regions of
Pennsylvania — and the work that they do to drive hunger — to drive
hunger from our community — right? — to get — to get that out. We’re
talking about food insecurity today and to end — end hunger for — for
good.

So, look, he distributed food. You all saw that. That was really
important. That was his main focus for tomorrow — for today — pardon me
— for yesterday.

And he’s going to continue to focus on the American people. That’s what
he’s going to do. He’s going to continue to focus on others — to helping
hardworking, middle-class families build an economy from the bottom up
and — from the bottom up, middle out. That’s what he’s going to do:
protecting Americans’ freedom; bringing the country together around, you
know, optimism, vision for — for the future.

So, that’s going to be the President’s focus.

And I will go to the next questioner.

OPERATOR: All right. Moving on to our next question in queue. M.J. Lee
with CNN, please go ahead.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Hey, M.J.

Q Hey, Karine. Just on the Iowa caucuses last night. What, if anything —
I know that you’re not going to get into details, but just, generally
speaking, what, if anything, did the President make of the results that
showed that the majority of caucus-goers said they don’t believe that
his win in 2020 was legitimate? And if you can’t speak to the
President’s reaction to that, can you speak to the reaction to that
from, I mean, yourself or other White House officials?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, again — so, here’s — here’s what I’ll say, because
we’ve talked about this before from the briefing room, so it’s not —
this is something that deals with 2020, so I can — I can actually speak
to this.

Look, you know, the President is going to continue to stand against
conspiracy theories, right? And we know what — what you just laid out to
me about how people feel has been debunked — right? — it has been
debunked by federal judges, who are — who are Republican judges. Other —
other officials have debunked that.

You know, we had a very fa- — free and fair election. That’s what we
know. That is a fact. And, you know — and it’s important to state that.
It’s important to — to be clear — very, very clear about that.

Look, I can say this. You know, I can say that the President, you know,
is going to — as — as it relates to how he’s moving forward, not focused
on the 2024 election, he’s going to continue to stand against dangerous
personal revenge schemes and conspiracy theories that have cost — let’s
not forget, these dangerous conspiracy theories have cost law
enforcement officers their lives. You know, and it is — that is what we
saw on January 6th in 2021.

It was an attack on our democracy. And it was because people believed —
the insurrectionists, the mob — more than 2,000 people who showed up at
— at the — at the Capitol believed — believed the conspiracy theories
that they were told about this election, and it cost officers their
lives. And that is incredibly dangerous.

Our democracy was under attack. Again, a very scary moment in our
history, a dark time in our history. You heard the President talk about
this very recently when he was in Valley Forge.

And so, look, we have to speak out about that. We have to be very clear
— clear — clear — clear-spoken about those types of conspiracy theories.
We have to speak against them. And so, I’ll just leave it there.

OPERATOR: Moving on to our next question in queue. Annie Linskey with
Wall Street Journal, please go ahead.

Q Hi there.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Hi, Annie.

Q Oh, hi. Hi there, Karine. I wanted to ask about the news over the
weekend that John Kerry is departing his post. Can you tell me whether
or not the President plans on — on replacing him and, you know, what you
believe he accomplished in that role and then anything about — anything
more about why the President agreed for him to leave now at this
particular moment?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, a couple of things, because I’ve gotten to
know the Special Envoy Kerry and Secre- — obviously, former Secretary of
State Kerry. And I know that — I know the President appreciated
everything that he was able to do in the past three years.

So, just — I can just put it on the record. I can confirm that, in the
upcoming months — month that Special Envoy Kerry will leave the
administration, as I just stated, after three years of service.

And let’s just — just to talk about his tenure for a second. You know,
he was able to deliver — with the leadership, obviously, of this
President — the most ambitious climate agenda in history — when you
think about restoring America’s leadership on climate around the world,
implementing the largest investment in climate ever, putting us on track
to cut emissions in half by 2030.

I can’t speak to — I know folks have — have been wondering what the —
what Secretary Kerry is going to do next. I certainly can’t speak to
that. But certainly we’ll — we’ll be sure to keep you posted.

Look, you know, as far who’s going to — to be next, I certainly don’t
have any personnel announcement to make at this time. But our work, the
work that he started, the work is going to continue. The work to address
the climate crisis will continue.

Let’s not forget what we’re able to do just last month. We announced a
rule that — that’s going to cut methane emissions from oil and gas
operations by nearly 80 percent, I believe. And that’s a huge
announcement. That’s incredibly important.

But the President is incredibly thankful to — to Secretary Kerry. It is
his personal decision to leave. So, certainly going — not going to speak
to that. But, look, we got a lot done. He got a lot done in the three
years. The President — when it comes to climate change, the President
has had the most aggressive agenda than any other president before —
before him on getting things done and getting to a place where we’re
dealing with the climate.

Thanks — thanks for your question, Annie.

Q Thanks.

OPERATOR: All right. Moving on to our next question in the queue. Selina
Wang with ABC News, please go ahead.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Hey, Selina.

Q Hey, Karine. Thanks for doing this. I know you can’t speak too much
about it, but is there anything else you can say about the President’s
view about Trump’s resounding win in Iowa? He was asked yesterday about
why he felt compelled to seek a second term, and he said, quote, the
things that Trump is saying, “he means them,” “he’s running to get
revenge.” Just wondering if you can elaborate on what the President’s
thoughts are.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look — and you — I think you’re speaking to the
interview that the President did on — on — yesterday, obviously, on Dr.
Martin Luther King Day with Reverend Al Sharpton. He called in to his
radio show. And I know it’s been previewed on one of the cable networks,
what the President said.

And so, the President, you know, appreciated that conversation. Had a
really, I think, thoughtful conversation about what he’s thinking moving
forward. Obviously, I can’t get into specifics on — on that. But I would
certainly — I would, you know, refer folks to what the President laid
out as it relates to why he’s running and why he’s de- — you know, he’s
decided to run and how he — he views this next several months.

So, I’m not going to get into that. His — he — you could — you could
hear it for yourself in his own words.

But, look, I’ll say this. And I kind of said this before — right? —
which is what the President is going to stand against. He’s going to
stand against dangerous personal revenge schemes. Right? The President
is going to stand against conspiracy theories. Right? The President is
going to continue to fight for the freedoms of Americans across this
country.

We see what they’re trying to do — what Republican-elected officials are
trying to do as it relates to abortion bans and how dangerous that is to
women and — and their health.

And the President — in the meantime, the President is going to continue
to — to lead with the — with the — obviously, with leadership and
putting American people first and bringing people together in a way that
benefits everyone. That is what the President is going to continue to
do.

And not putting — putting yourself first or putting yourself above every
— every — everyone else or fomenting hate or selling out working people
to rich special interests or taking away freedoms, as I just laid out,
that’s not what the President is going to do.

He’s going to be completely the opposite of that, as he’s been doing for
the last almost three years. And that’s the President’s goal.

OPERATOR: All right. Moving on to our next question in queue. Joey
Garrison with USA Today, please go ahead.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Hey, Joey. Go ahead, Joey.

Q Hey, Karine. Doing well. How about yourself?

Has President Biden spoken to Secretary Austin since his release from
the hospital yesterday? And are there any plans for the two to meet in
person now that he is out of the hospital? Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: No, good question. Thank you for the question. Look,
we’re happy to hear of his discharge, obviously. Look, the President is
looking forward — and I said this last week; we said this last week — to
the Secretary getting back to the Pentagon, obviously.

And — and so, don’t have anything to share on — on when — when they’re
going to either see each other or speak. Obviously, they spoke last
week. The — the Secretary was very much — has very much been engaged and
involved in what we’re seeing in the Middle East right now.

And more broadly, on his schedule — on the Secretary’s schedule, that’s
something that the Pentagon can speak to. Can’t speak — can’t speak to
that from here.

But obviously, we are — we are very happy to see that — to hear of his
discharge and — and looking back — and looking forward to him to get —
getting back to the Pentagon.

Q Thanks.

OPERATOR: All right. Moving on to our next question in queue. Tommy
Christopher with Meditate \[Mediaite\], please go ahead.

Q Yeah. Hey, Karine. It’s Tommy. How you doing?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Hey, Tommy. Good to hear your voice. How are you?

Q Good, good. By the way, I know you know this, but it’s “Mediaite.” We
get that a lot, though — “Meditate.” So —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: (Inaudible.)

Q — good to talk to you, and good to be staying warm too. So, I — I was
wondering if you could tell me what you make of — of how much former
President Trump leaned into this lie that January 6th was justified
while he was campaigning in Iowa and, like, demanding the release of
the, quote, unquote, “hostages.” And what would you say to right-wing
media that — that sort of helped him in that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah. Look, I want to be — always want to be very, very
careful on speaking about candidate Trump, especially in the — the
upcoming 2024 election.

What I’ll say more broadly about the January 6th comments — look, you
know, it — you know, it’s — it’s basically what the President said in
Valley Forge. Right? The President said this over and over again about
January 6th and how dangerous it was — right? — and how — how we had to
— we had to watch, you know, an insurrec- — an insurrection, essentially
— 2,000 angry mob — because they believed what the former President said
and thought that they can turn over an election. This is what they were
doing. That’s what they were doing at the Capitol on that day.

And so, I’ve been — I said this a couple of times. You know, I’ve said
that the President has been very clear: He’s going to stand against
these types of conspiracy theories.

Let’s not forget, officers died. Right? Police officers died on that —
because of the injuries that they sustained on that day. They were
attacked on that day by these — by these — by these folks who — who were
trying to take over the Capitol.

And so, we have to be very clear about what happened on that day. We
cannot forget about what happened on that day. And the President said
this: Our democracy — we have to continue our democracy.

And I’ll just repeat a little bit of what he said in his remarks —
right? — there is a choice to be made. There is a choice that we have to
make — right? — in — in our country. We have to make a choice, and that
choice should be standing — standing up for our democracy, which is what
the President is going to continue — continue to do.

As far as this comment on hostages, you know, want to — want to be
really careful there as well — as well. Don’t want to comment on — on
any DOJ investigation or legal process.

But as you’ve — you’ve seen American veterans note, it’s — it’s
grotesque and offensive. It is offensive to c- — to compare those
convicted of assaulting cops and attempting to overthrow the American
government that veterans have died — have died defending to — for —
innocent Americans — for — to — you know, innocent Americans that — in
Israel — Israelis and people of other nationalities who were abducted.
Right? They were abducted by Hamas on October 7th.

And so, it is — you know, I’ll just keep it there. It is — it is
something that — again, I want to be mindful to speaking to, but that is
— it is incredibly grotesque and offensive.

Q And anything for right-wing media —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Oh, say that —

Q — who shall remain nameless.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: (Laughs.) Look, it is our responsibility — and I know
you all know this — as it relates to reporting and, you know, to — to —
I don’t know, like —

Okay. Separate from — from the election — right? — if you think about
what we saw on January 7th, 2021, on the front page — right? — the
front-page coverage that so many brave reporters — right? — if you think
about it — risked their lives to give — to give the country the
information that they needed. And that hard-won coverage exposed the
brutal, unprecedented assault on our Constitution, on the law
enforcement, on American democracy itself.

And so, I think it’s really important that, you know, we — we — we lift
up what these brave journalists and reporters are doing. And it is — I
would say this: It is an insult to those who lost their lives and to,
you know, the selfless reporters who put everything on the line to show
us the true stakes of that moment and who are — tirelessly investigated
afterward to help anyone — anyone who were putting out grotesque lies
about the attack on the Capitol.

And so, I’ll say that and — and just kind of lift up the work of
reporters who literally risked their lives on that day to make sure the
American people had the truth.

Q Thank you, Karine. We should do this again sometime. (Laughs.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Definitely. Thanks, Tommy.

OPERATOR: All right. Moving on to our next question in queue. Lynn Sweet
with Chicago Sun-Times, please go ahead.

Q Right. Hi, Karine. Thank you for doing this. Bear with me, as my
question is narrow in scope because you’ve talked about some of the
broader issues with the situation on the Texas border. Governor Pritzker
of Illinois and Chicago Mayor Johnson are pleading with the federal
government for more interior coordination at the border. Governor Abbott
— dealing with the migrants, who Governor Abbott wants out of Texas.

So, (inaudible)in this question that he is going to continue to send
migrants out of Texas. So, my question is: Why can’t the federal — or
why isn’t there more federal action regarding interior coordination
among where the migrants go at the border? Because right now, it’s not
left to the federal government; it’s left up to Governor Abbott to send
migrants to the cities, and they’re to the cities of his choosing. Why
does Abbott —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Okay.

Q — and not the federal government get to decide?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, let me just say a couple of things. What Governor
Abbott is doing — and I said this earlier when I was asked this
question, I believe, by Zeke from the AP — that what he’s doing are — is
a political stunt. And it’s — all it’s doing is not — it’s not making
communities safer, for certain. And it’s also dem- — it’s demonizing and
certainly dehumanizing people. And we’ve called that out. We’ve been
calling that out what his actions are doing.

And — and, as you know, we — I talked — I was asked earlier about the —
unfortunately, the three migrants that died — that drowned recently. And
so, it is unfortunate that we’re seeing that.

And that’s also — I mean, there’s so many — there’s so many parts of
this question. That’s also why you’re seeing a bipartisan conversation
happening in the Senate. It’s been happening for some time with
Republicans and Democrats. We think it’s heading in a di- — right
direction. We believe we need a bipartisan agreement to deal with the
policy components, and also the funding components, obviously, of — of
immigration. That’s been broken for some time — for decades now.

So, that — those are actions that the President has taken, obviously,
with his team to get something done, to get border security, you know,
changes or — or deal, I should say, done. And so, that’s really
important.

As it relates to the cities, look, a couple of things that I can say
that — that I can say there is last year, in 2023, this administration,
in collaboration with the states and cities just across the country —
what they were able to do is launch a one-stop — one-stop shop clinics
so that they can help eligible noncitizens get work permits and
decompress the respective shelter systems, which is incredibly
important. And that’s what, you know, you all have been reporting — some
of you have reporting about — around. And to date, these clinics have
served more than 10,000 people.

And in addition to that, our administration — the President’s
administration was able to provide more than $1 billion in grant funding
for jurisdictions who are hosting these — these migrants that are — that
are arriving.

So, obviously — obviously, we want to do more. We do want to do more.
But it requires Congress to give us the additional funding, which is why
we’re having this conversation, which is why we’re doing the — this
bipartisan conversation, as it relates, certainly, to the supplemental.
That’s why the President is going to certainly meet with congressional
members tomorrow to continue those conversations.

So, we want to — we want to continue to collaborate with these cities
and states, obviously, across the country. But, you know, we have to
have — we have to have Congress act as well.

OPERATOR: All right. Moving on to our next question in queue. Weijia
Jiang with CBS News, please go ahead.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Hey, Weijia.

Q Thank you. Hi, Karine. Hi.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Hi, hi.

Q Thank you for doing this. I just had a quick question on Eagle Pass,
because what we’ve heard so far as possible recourse from the
administration has all been legal in nature. And I just wonder, is there
anything else you can do to gain access to the border? Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: No — no, it’s a good question. And I appreciate all
these questions, but there’s — about the border in particular, because
they’re very important. Look, the Border Patrol, they have to have
access to the border. They have to in order to enforce our laws. And —
and DHS has sent Texas a cease and des- — and desist letter regarding
their clearly, clearly unconstitutional actions.

And here’s the thing. If — if Texas does not stop blocking what Border
Patrol agents should be doing — right? — which is enforcing the laws —
but if they don’t stop blocking their access, we’re going to refer the
matter to Department of Justice for appropriate action.

But obviously, DHS has taken action. They asked for a cease and desist
in their letter. And we — Border Patrol agents need to have access in
order to enforce the law. That’s what they need. They need the governor
of Texas to stop playing political games and to stop doing these
political stunts. It is putting people’s lives at risk. And that is —
and that is what we’re seeing.

Q So, I hear you. But given the fact that people’s lives are at risk,
you know, to go to DOJ, the Supreme Court — these things take time to
play out. So, I’m wondering if there’s anything immediate that the
counterpart to the Texas National Guard, which is blocking the border,
is there anything you can do at the border physically to gain access? Or
is the only thing you can do is let’s — let it play out in the justice
system?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah. I mean —

Q (Inaudible.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: — I wouldn’t say we’re just — yeah, look, here’s — and
that’s the problem, Weijia, right? It’s like — it is unfortunate that
you have a governor, Governor Abbott, that’s watching this happen —
right? — that’s watching people be put in harm’s way — law enforcement
also be put into harm’s way, because it is — it does make a situation
dangerous for the Border Patrol agents and dangerous for the migrants,
obviously.

And allowing this to happen — like, that is actually a question for
Governor Abbott. He is — he is — he is doing these political stunts, and
it is causing harm. It is not fixing the problem. The Border Patrol
agents are not allowed — are not able to — to really, you know, move
forward with enforcing our laws.

I mean, this is what a elected official is doing. And so, you know, I
get the question to us. We are going to take legal — you know, we’re ta-
— we have taken legal action. That is the process. That’s the way that
we have to move forward.

And we also have to call it out. That’s — when you all ask me questions
about it or you ask any — any members of the administration about this,
we say very loud and clear: These are political stunts. They are
dangerous. They dehumanize people. They — they demonize people. They put
people’s lives in danger — in danger — not — not just the migrants but
also the Border Patrol agents. It’s a problem.

And so, we have to continue to call it out. I mean, you guys help — you
know, help — are helpful in that way in calling this out. And so, we’re
going to continue to do that.

OPERATOR: All right. Moving on to our next question in queue, and this
will be our last question. Kelly O’Donnell with NBC, please go ahead.

Q Oh, to be last. I have been waiting patiently, so I’m so glad to get —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: (Laughs.)

Q Love this in-queue process.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Last but not the least.

Q Yes, yes. So, many questions have been asked. So, I’m just going to
tick off two couple of quick things.

Can you give us a sense of your reaction and any White House changes in
position or posture related to the swatting incident that happened on
Monday, recognizing that there are a lot of ways in which you have
response built into the campus here, but in the larger sense of how the
White House could now be drawn into this new technique?

And, secondly, when Joey asked about Secretary Austin and you referenced
them speaking, you know, a week or so ago, what’s the typical cadence
for the President and the SecDef to — to speak on the phone, given all
the areas of their obvious, you know, priorities on national security
matters of late? Thanks so much.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: No, thank you so much, Kelly O. Two — two important
questions.

Look, as it relates to the swatting, I would have to refer you to Secret
Service and D.C. Fire, which responded, ob- — as you know, to — to the
incident. Can’t say more from here.

Look, the President and the — and the Secretary speak often, speak
regularly. I don’t have a regular cadence to speak to. Obviously, he’s
the Secretary of Defense, so that is the — they do — they do speak
regularly. I just don’t have a particular, as I said, cadence to speak
to on how — how regularly that happens.

And I — I would also say that, you know, from — from senior levels of
the — of the Department of Defense and also at the NSC and, obviously,
at the State Department, there’s — they are in constant communication
with their counterparts or the folks that they deal with on a regular
basis.

And so, as — as it relates to the President, they do speak regularly. I
just don’t have the specifics on — on the — on how often.

Q And briefly on the swatting. Not the specifics of what happened
yesterday, but could you speak to the larger issue that this technique
of — whether it’s harassment or a prank or whatever it might be that has
popped up and has affected now the White House but, in addition, members
of the judicial branch, other types of officials? Do you have a broader
sense of how this is now creating a risk or a danger in our society?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah, look, I think what you just stated is — is
correct, right? It is creating a danger and a risk to our society. There
are things that we’re going to monitor. This is something, obviously,
the Secret Service is going to monitor very closely as it relates to us
specifically at the White House or this administration.

And so, I’m just going to be really mindful and leave it there. But how
you stated the question is — is tr- — is obviously a concern to us.

All right, everybody. I think that’s it —

(Cross-talk.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Oh, go ahead. Oh —

I don’t know what just happened. I think — if you guys can still hear
me, thank you so much for your time. And we will see you all tomorrow in
the briefing room.

All right. Be safe. Bye.

2:51 P.M. EST
