---
date: '2024-01-11'
published_time: 2024-01-11 12:40:58-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/01/11/background-press-call-by-a-senior-administration-official-on-taiwan-elections/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Background Press Call by a Senior Administration Official on Taiwan\_Elections"
---
 
National Security Council  
  
Via Teleconference  

6:46 P.M. EST  
  
MODERATOR:  Hi there.  Good evening, everybody.  And I know a few folks
maybe heard us having a little chatter here before the kickoff of the
call.  So, just wanted to say that this call is going to be held under
embargo until the close of the call.  The call is going to be on
background, attributable to senior administration officials.  
  
For awareness but not for reporting, joining us on the call today is
\[senior administration official\].  
  
And with that, I will hand it over to her for some quick remarks, and
then we’ll open it up to questions.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Great, thank you so much.  And, all,
thanks so much for joining tonight.  You heard me trying to figure out
how to approach a few things ahead of time, so don’t often get the
sausage but sometimes you do.  
  
It’s been a few months since we’ve held a backgrounder on Taiwan
issues.  And with the elections coming up on January 13th, we thought it
was timely to do.   
  
I’ll give just a brief laydown and then pause for questions at the end. 
And hopefully we can wrap this up.  \[Moderator\], what do we have —
about half an hour or so?  
  
MODERATOR:  Yep, just about.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Great.  Sounds good.  
  
So, on January 13th, Taiwan will hold presidential and legislative
elections following a transition period.  The Taiwan president-elect
will be inaugurated on May 20th.  This election marks the island’s
fourth transition between democratically elected administrations since
fully democratic elections were first held in 1996.  
  
The United States has full confidence in Taiwan’s democratic processes,
and there is strong bipartisan support for its free and fair
elections.  
  
Taiwan is a model for democracy not only in the region but also
globally.  We oppose any outside interference or influence in Taiwan’s
elections.   
  
Of course, the United States does not take sides in these elections,
does not have a favored or preferred candidate.  Regardless of whom is
elected, our policy toward Taiwan will remain the same, and our strong
unofficial relationship will also continue.  
  
The United States and China of course have had differences on
cross-Strait issues, but over the last 40 years we have managed these
differences.   
  
When President Biden met with President Xi in San Francisco this past
November, he made clear that U.S. policy toward Taiwan has not and will
not change.  He reiterated that we are committed to our longstanding One
China policy which is guided by the Taiwan Relations Act, the Three
Joint Communiqués, and the Six Assurances.  
  
He indicated that we oppose any unilateral changes to the status quo
from either side.  We do not support Taiwan independence.  We support
cross-Strait dialogue, and we expect cross-Strait differences to be
resolved by peaceful means, free from coercion, in a manner that is
acceptable to the people on both sides of the Strait.  We do not take a
position on the ultimate resolution of cross-Strait differences,
provided they are resolved peacefully.  
  
I’m not going to speculate on what the PRC reaction will be to the
elections or their outcome, but will note that the election is part of a
normal, routine democratic process.  Beijing will be the provocateur
should it choose to respond with additional military pressure or
coercion.   
  
Of course, peace and stability in the Taiwan Strait is critical to
countries and economies around the globe.  Taiwan is a key part of
global supply chains, and by some estimates, about half of all global
trade flows through the Taiwan Strait.  
  
For all these reasons, a disruption to peace and stability across the
Taiwan Strait would seriously damage the global economy, and the
spillover would affect all economies around the world.  
  
Throughout this election and transition period, we will ensure channels
of communication are open with Beijing, both diplomatic and the recently
reopened mil-mil channels.  In keeping with past precedent and our
unofficial relationship with Taiwan, we will also ensure AIT and the AIT
chair are in close touch with Taiwan interlocutors to reinforce both our
support for Taiwan’s democratic processes and also our strong commitment
to peace, stability, and the status quo.  There should be no unilateral
changes by either side to the status quo.  
  
We also intend to send an unofficial delegation after the Taiwan
election.  We’re not in a position to confirm the timing of the
delegation or the participants, in part because contrary to press
reports, some of this is still being decided.  We will have more to
share in the coming days.   
  
But I did want to provide some context about these types of delegations
and the frequency with which we have used them not just in this
administration, but other administrations in the past.  
  
First, given our unofficial relationship with Taiwan, we often send
these high-level unofficial delegations of former government officials
to Taipei.  We have a decades-long tradition of doing so; this is
nothing new.  
  
In the last 20 years, we have sent former Cabinet secretaries, former
deputy secretaries of state, former national security advisors, former
assistant secretaries, former members of Congress, former governors,
former chairmen of the Joint Chiefs, and even former White House chiefs
of staff.  
  
In fact, President Biden has sent an unofficial delegation twice before
of former U.S. government officials in April of 2021 and February of
2022.  In those instances, one was post-U.S. inauguration.  In April
‘21, two former deputy secretaries joined.  We have also — and I think
former members of Congress as well.  Neither of these, over the past
several years, were viewed as escalatory by the PRC.   
  
So, sending delegations is well within precedent.  It is, of course,
consistent with our One China policy, consistent with the status quo,
and timed after the election to ensure that we are not endorsing one
candidate or one party over the other.  
  
Second, we also have a longstanding precedent for sending former senior
USG officials with the AIT chair to Taiwan, after the Taiwan elections. 
And this has been ongoing, again, for about 20 years, back to 2000. 
We’re going to maintain that precedent after this election too.  
  
In 2016, we sent former Deputy Secretary Bill Burns and the AIT chair to
Taipei to meet with the incoming team and the losing candidates.   
  
I will pause there perhaps.   
  
And again, I think the point I want to convey in this backgrounder is,
first, I think elections, normal process ongoing for some time.  We’re
not expecting at this point or predicting what will happen or what the
PRC response will be.  But the point being here, we’re focused on peace,
stability, and status quo, and talking via our normal channels of
communication with both Beijing and Taipei through types of del- —
unofficial delegations like the one we will be sending post-election, as
well as via AIT and the AIT chair.  
  
So, I’ll pause there and welcome any questions.  Over to you.  
  
MODERATOR:  With that, we’ll defer to the conference room folks to give
instructions on how to ask questions, and we’ll start calling them.  
  
First, we’ll go to Trevor Hunnicutt with Reuters.  
  
Q    Hey, thanks for doing the call.  Two related questions.  You know,
it’s been pretty well documented that Beijing is doing its part to
interfere in these elections.  Is the Biden administration doing enough
to help Taiwan defend against that kind of interference?  And, two, are
you concerned that a future administration in Taipei will pause or
reverse asymmetric defense preparations?  Thank you.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks.  I think on the interference
question, we’ve been pretty clear in our communications with Beijing,
and publicly for that matter, that any form of interference coercion we
have serious concerns about.  It is interfering with the legitimate
democratic political processes, and it certainly would paint Beijing as
a provocateur in this election.  
  
On the question about defense, you know, as part of our unofficial
relationship with Taiwan, or unofficial partnership with Taiwan, AIT, of
course, has been in regular touch with all of the candidates.  And I
think our expectation is that the strong partnership that we have would
endure both on security assistance issues but also on economic, trade,
people-to-people, and all that whole list of pieces or parts of the
relationship.  
  
But again, I think, you know, before we have a president in place, or
president-elect, I don’t want to speculate beyond that.  But I would
say, overall, our expectation is that our unofficial relationship would
continue to be strong in all the dimension of security assistance,
people-to-people, economic, and trade.  
  
MODERATOR:  Next, we’re going to go to Nick Schifrin with PBS.  
  
Q    Thanks for doing this.  Can you just say on that first point: You
know, the Taiwanese are very specific in the kinds of interference that
they say are already happening — cyberattacks, economic coercion, and
some others.  Can you say whether the U.S. believes Beijing is already
committing those actions that Taiwan accuses them of, is already trying
to influence the election?  
  
And in terms of after the election, the delegations that you spoke
about, the precedent is not only to go to Taipei but also send a
delegation to Beijing.  Even if you can’t detail the people, can you
confirm that the delegation — that a delegation would go to Beijing
after the election, along the lines of precedent that the U.S has sent
in the past after Taiwanese elections?  Thanks.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Great, thanks.  On the first one, I
think, you know, we’ll continue to use the channels of communication
that we have with Beijing and that have been effective through various
periods of higher tension over the last year.  
  
On the question of interference or influence, you know, obviously, this
is something we’re watching quite closely.  We’re in touch via AIT with
Taipei on this, on what they’re seeing, what they’re concerned about.  
  
The point I want to emphasize and I think it’s important to convey is we
have complete confidence in Taiwan’s democratic processes.  We’re not
concerned that this is going to impact the election outcome.  And
they’ve been extremely diligent and careful about pointing out where
there’s disinformation, pointing out where there’s misinformation, you
know, different attempts Beijing or Beijing’s proxies may be making in
this space.  
  
I mean, it is no secret, I think, that Beijing has views on the outcome
of the elections and is trying to shape and coerce in various different
ways.  
  
But what I want to convey here is that we are confident in Taiwan’s
democratic election processes.  
  
Q    And then, the delegation to Beijing?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, I think on that — that was my
first answer.  I think we’ll use the channels of communication that we
have used in other times with Beijing.  I think how we do that and the
manner in which we do that is different according — you know, it changes
over time.  So we have not always sent a delegation to Beijing.  And
I’ll leave it there for the time being.  
  
MODERATOR:  Next, we’re going to go to Demetri with the FT.  
  
Q    Thanks.  Without asking you to confirm the names of the high-level
former officials going to Taipei, can you give us an understanding of
what they’re actually going there to do?  
  
And then, separately, in the meetings today in the White House, did Liu
Jianchao make clear what China would like Taiwan — the Taiwanese
election victor to say and also what they would like them not to say in
their victory acceptance speech?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks, Demetri.  On the purpose of the
unofficial delegation, you know, the way these have been used in the
past is to ensure that we are communicating clearly to both the
president-elect, but also the other candidates as well, about the
importance of strong unofficial partnership, being clear about what the
U.S. One China policy is and what it is not.  
  
And given, you know, the uniqueness of this unofficial relationship,
doing that face-to-face via these unofficial delegations is really the
most effective way to do it.  It’s exactly the type of engagement that
contributes to peace and stability, in our view.  And it’s also just
critical to manage cross-Strait tensions and cross-Strait issues in this
way.  That direct — there’s really no replacement for that direct
communication.  And that’s what we’re trying to get at through this
unofficial delegation.  
  
As to the Liu Jianchao meeting, I won’t go into specifics of what was
raised, but I think what we heard from him — it’s worth keeping in mind,
you know, he’s not an MFA official.  He’s from sort of a different part
of the institution than we normally — than normally travels.   
  
So — but even given that, I’d say the conversation was quite consistent
with what we have heard in other senior-level engagements about PRC
concerns about this election, about the sensitive period ahead.  Nothing
in there would surprise you or be different than what, you know,
President Biden heard from President Xi and we read out in the
post-Woodside meetings.  
  
MODERATOR:  Next, we’re going to go to Charles Hutzler.  
  
Q    Hi, thanks for doing this.  I just wanted to follow up on Demetri’s
questions.  I mean, first of all, on this message that Beijing should
not interfere, that no one should interfere in Taiwan’s election, can
you sort of catalog when that message has been delivered to Beijing most
recently?  Has it been delivered publicly?  And, as well, what’s
delivered to Liu Jianchao?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks for the question, Charles. 
Yeah, I think in terms of the concerns about — or, you know,
underscoring the need to ensure there’s no interference, that’s a
message we’ve consistently delivered, I say, in about every high-level
engagement over the last six months or so, if not before.   
  
So, certainly in the Woodside summit, that was a message that was
clearly delivered.  In National Security Advisor Sullivan’s meetings
with Wang Yi, that certainly has been something that we have conveyed as
well, and as well through the channel we have here with Ambassador Xie
Feng.   
  
So this is a consistent message that the U.S. is sending to PRC
interlocutors, including with Liu Jianchao.  
  
MODERATOR:  Next, we’ll go to Shaun Tandon with AFP.  
  
Q    Hey there.  Thanks for this call.  Could I extend a little bit on
the question that Nick asked, talking about the actions that China has
already taken?  Do you see this as consistent with what China has done
in previous Taiwanese elections or anything different?  
  
And in terms — of course, there’s the military talks this week, the
mil-to-mil at the Pentagon.  Do you think that affected at all the
equation in terms of what you expect in terms of behavior from China?  
  
And just briefly, trade.  There, of course, were trade talks with Taiwan
in the past year.  Do you expect this to go full speed ahead with the
new administration, no matter who it is?  Or are you waiting to see a
new administration form?  Thanks.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks for that.  On coercion or
shaping and influencing, I think this has been a longstanding practice
of Beijing.  I think what we’re seeing is consistent with what we have
seen in the past, without commenting on specifics, of course.  But I
think, you know, there’s a pattern of behavior we have seen here that is
fairly consistent.  
  
On trade, you know, I think trade issues, of course — or the trade
relationship with Taiwan is important.  We have worked hard, and I think
we’re all proud of the 21st century trade initiative in Phase One that
was signed last year.  Our intent is to continue moving forward on Phase
Two as well, but I don’t have any details for you on when.  I simply
don’t have that at my fingertips.  But I would not expect that is
something that would slow down dependent on the results of the
election.  I think that’s something there is bipartisan support for in
Taipei as well.  
  
MODERATOR:  And our last question is going to go to Morgan Chalfant with
Semafor.  
  
Q    Thanks so much for doing this.  I know you won’t get into
predictions about a Chinese reaction, but can you talk about how the
U.S. is preparing for a potential Chinese military reaction?  And how
worried are you about, you know, a provocative reaction disrupting some
of the progress that the U.S. and China has made over the last couple of
months?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  You know, I think anytime we’re heading
into a period of higher tension, there are, of course, always
contingency conversations in the U.S. government that is part of
prudential planning.  I don’t want to get into specifics on those, but
of course we have to be prepared and thinking through any eventuality,
ranging from, you know, no response to higher end.   
  
Sorry, and the second part of your question?  
  
Q    I was just wondering how worried you are about, you know, a
provocative response disrupting some of the progress that the U.S. and
China has made over the last couple of months.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, no, it’s a good question, but I
think it’s putting the frame of Taiwan elections and cross-Strait issues
in a context that I don’t think is the right context.  
  
The health of the U.S.-China relationship I don’t think you can view as
a derivative of cross-Strait tensions.  I mean, we are deeply engaged in
diplomacy with China to try to manage difficult situations.  Our
expectation is not that China is going to change its cross-Strait
policy, it’s how do we manage this difficult time and try to avoid
unintended conflict, ensure our intent is clear, and ensure that we are
in communications.  And that’s precisely what we’re doing through this
period of diplomacy over the last, you know, year or so.  
  
MODERATOR:  You know what, we’ve actually got time for one more.  Let’s
go to Kevin Collier with NBC.  
  
Q    Hi, thanks for that.  Can you articulate — I understand that there
are, you know, different groups that have made allegations of
information operations and election interference that China has used to
target Taiwan, but what is the NSC’s understanding of that issue?  What
has China done?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  You know, I think it’s — Taiwan is
pretty advanced in being able to pinpoint and identify what’s going on
in their own system.  So I think rather than looking at us as the source
for this, I would look to Taiwan as the source and look at their
announcements, look at what they’ve put out there in open source on
this.  
  
I think broadly speaking, you know, we’ve seen — and it is not
surprising we have seen — Chinese att- — or Beijing’s attempts to try to
shape the information environment, try to put economic pressure on the
island through announcements of tariff changes that we’ve seen over the
last couple of weeks.  
  
So, again, none of this is surprising to me.  And I think Taiwan is
quite good in this space in calling it out for what it is.  And I would
point to them as the source of that information.  
  
MODERATOR:  All right, that concludes this evening’s call.  Thank you
all, and we should follow up shortly with a transcript.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks so much, folks.  Look forward to
continuing the conversation.

7:08 P.M. EST
