---
date: '2024-01-09'
modified_time: 2024-01-10 12:42:35-05:00
published_time: 2024-01-09 16:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/01/09/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-nsc-coordinator-for-strategic-communications-john-kirby-37/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and NSC Coordinator for\
  \ Strategic Communications John\_Kirby"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

3:21 P.M. EST  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hi.  M.J., you made it.  (Laughs.)  All right.  Good
to see folks still here.  
  
Good afternoon, all.  Across the country —  
  
Q    (Inaudible.)  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hi.  Good afternoon.  Thank you.  
  
Across the country, as we can see, we’re seeing severe weather warnings
and impacts, from blizzards out west to heavy rains and high wind in the
east.   
  
A number of states have already declared state of emergency.  And here
in Washington D.C., we know that many schools will send their students
home early — like my kid and probably many of yours.   
  
We are closely monitoring the weather, and we encourage all Americans to
do the same.  Do not become complacent, and make sure to heed the
warnings of local officials.   
  
You can also download the FEMA app, which provides real-time weather
alerts and can help you prepare.   
  
As always, we stand ready to support communities nationwide as
needed.   
  
And I do have an update on the President’s week.  This Friday, January
12th, the President will travel to Allentown, Pennsylvania, area to —
that area to discuss how communities across America are coming back
thanks to Bidenomics and his Investing in America agenda, which have
ushered in a small-business boom, creating good-paying jobs with rising
wages, strengthened local economies, and lowered costs for hardworking
families.  Bidenomics — it’s working.   
  
And with that, as you all can see, my colleague, Admiral John Kirby, is
here to discuss inter- — international response to information we
declassified last week on Russia’s use of North Korean munitions.  
  
And, with that, Admiral.   
  
MR. KIRBY:  Good afternoon, everybody.   
  
Q    Good afternoon.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  So, yesterday, \[Russia\] launched a ro- — launched its most
recent aerial attack against Ukraine using missiles and UAVs.  Multiple
Ukrainian civilians were killed in the strikes, and dozens were
injured.  
  
These strikes are horrific, they’re inhumane, and they serve as yet just
another reminder of the brutality of Mr. Putin’s war.  
  
Due, in part, to our sanctions and export controls, as we talked about
last week, Russia has been forced to look to likeminded states for
military equipment.  One of those states is North Korea.  
  
And as I said from this podium last week, the Democratic People’s
Republic of Korea recently provided Russia with ballistic missile
launchers and several dozen ballistic missiles.  Russia has since
deployed these missiles against Ukraine.  
  
Last week, you might recall, I talked about a strike on the 30th, talked
about a strike using a doz- — you know, almost 10 more on the 2nd of —
of January, targeting Zaporizhian, Kyiv, Kharkiv, and elsewhere.  On
January, as I — and then, on January 6th, since then, Russian forces
again launched multiple North Korean ballistic missiles into Ukraine. 
We’re still assessing the impacts of these strikes, but we can confirm
that at least one of them landed in Kharkiv.   
  
So, today, I’m announcing that the foreign ministers of 47 countries,
Secretary Blinken, and the High Representative of the European Union
have released a joint statement condemning the DPRK’s export and
Russia’s procurement of North Korean ballistic missiles, as well as
Russia’s use of these North Korean missiles against Ukraine.  
  
As the statement makes clear, the transfer of these weapons increases
the suffering of the Ukrainian people, supports Russia’s war of
aggression, and undermines the global non-proliferation regime, and our
governments stand together in resolute opposition to these arms
transfers between the DPRK and Russia.  
  
Russia’s transfer of ballistic missiles from the DPRK directly violates
multiple U.N. security resolutions. And tomorrow, we will raise these
arms deals at the U.N. Security Council alongside our allies and
partners and demand that Russia be held accountable for yet again
violating international obligations that it signed up to.  
  
We also will continue to impose sanctions against those working to
facilitate arms transfers like this and to release information exposing
those arms deals.  
  
But I cannot emphasize enough anymore today than I did last week that
the most effective response to Russia’s ongoing missile and UAV attacks
is to provide Ukraine with vital air defense capabilities and other
types of military equipment that it needs to defend itself, its terrain,
its infrastructure, its people. To do that, we need Congress to approve
our supplemental funding request for Ukraine without any further
delay.  
  
Russia is looking to countries like North Korea and Iran for
assistance.  Ukraine needs our help.  We’re calling on Congress to help
us meet that need and meet this moment.  
  
Thank you.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Josh.  
  
Q    Thanks, John, for doing this.  On the news of the day, when did
President Biden learn of the Defense Secretary’s cancer diagnosis?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  He was informed today.  
  
Q    Any details on how, what his reaction was?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  He was informed by the Chief of Staff earlier this morning,
and I — I’m not going to go into more detail than that.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Nancy.  
  
Q    So, the President has known for, I guess, five days now that
Secretary Austin was in the hospital, but he wasn’t informed why?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  He was not informed until last Friday that Secretary Austin
was in the hospital.  He was not informed until this morning that the
root cause of that hospitalization was prostate cancer.   
  
Q    Is that because the White House knew and didn’t inform the
President or because Secretary Austin chose not to share that with the
President?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Nobody at the White House knew that Secretary Austin had
prostate cancer until this morning, and the President was informed
immediately after we were informed.   
  
Q    Okay.  Last week, we learned that Jake Sullivan, I believe, found
out about the fact that Secretary Austin was hospitalized on Thursday
morning.  So, just want to clarify: Are you saying the President found
out a day later than the NSC did?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  No.  Jake — Jake was informed — our National Security
Advisor was informed that Secretary Austin was in the hospital and had
been for some time.  He found out late Thursday afternoon.  And he
informed — he and the Chief of Staff, Mr.  Zients, informed the
President later that evening — early that evening.  Not long after they
learned, they informed the President directly.  
  
Q    Okay.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Thursday evening.  
  
Q    We learned also today that Secretary Austin, when he went into the
hospital for the first time on December 22nd, he knew he was going to be
under general anesthesia, he knew he was going to be spending the night,
and transferred authority to his Deputy Secretary.  Was the White House
informed then that author- — that the authority was going to be
transferred?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  No.   
  
Q    Is that what’s supposed to happen?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  There — there are — the delegations of authority can happen
— I wouldn’t say on a regular basis, but it’s not uncommon for the
Secretary of Defense to delegate authority to the deputy, sometimes for
very short periods of time.   
  
But I think one of the things that we’re all going to want to learn from
this is — is — is the notification process for that delegation of
authority.  
  
Q    Is there an expectation when a Secretary is indisposed or
hospitalized and has to transfer authority that the White House will be
notified?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Again, I’m going to — actually, I’m going to let Karine take
this one because this really gets to the memo that Mr. Zients put out. 
And I think I’ll let —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, yeah.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  — Karine talk of that.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sure, sure.  So, as you all know, there was a memo
that was released today from the Chief of Staff.  And the memo was sent
to the President’s Cabinet — Cabinet on protocols for a delegation of
authority.   
  
And so, the memo does two things.  I just want to lay that out for — for
all of you.  First, it asks every Cabinet agency to submit in writing
their current existing protocols for a delegation of authority they
already have in place for review to the White House Office of Cabinet
Affairs and the Chief of Staff by this coming Friday, January 12th.   
  
And second, in the interim, while the review of each agency’s protocols
is completed, the memo directs a set of robust protocols that Cabinet
agencies must undertake in the event of a delegation of authority.   
  
So, that is what the memo says, those two really critical, important
things.   
  
Again, this is something that we — we have said over the past couple of
days, that the President believes that we have to have robust protocols
and procedures in place, obviously, for — across the Cabinet.  And this
is what you’re seeing from this memo.   
  
Q    So, finally, who does the President hold responsible for this
lapse: Secretary Austin, his aides, the Chairman of Joint Chiefs who —
who clearly knew about this the day after the Secretary —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I —  
  
Q    — was hospitalized?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I will say this.  I mean, Secretary Austin put out a
statement and he took full responsibility for this.  So, I would refer
you back to the statement.  And Secretary was — Austin was very clear,
and we appreciate that he has taken responsibility for this.   
  
But I also want to say that we certainly hope that he fully recovers and
also gets back to the Pentagon.  And so, I’ll leave it there.  But his
statement was very clear the other day.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  Walter Reed said that he was diagnosed with the
cancer last month.  So, just to confirm, the President did not know the
diagnosis or that he was hospitalized?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, he did- — he was informed — the President was
informed — as the Admiral just stated, the President was informed today
about the prostate cancer.   
  
Q    So, is there a lack of trust between the Pentagon and the White
House?  Why did the Secretary of Defense feel that he didn’t need to
inform the President immediately, the White House immediately about the
diagnosis or the procedure?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, we have complete confidence in the
Secretary.  That is something that we have said.  The President has
complete confidence in the Secretary.   
  
Obviously, the — there is a review that — that the Pentagon is doing. 
They announced that yesterday.  They’re going to take a review of the —
of — of how this process went, and we’ll let that review process move
forward.   
  
But, again, the President has full confidence in the — in the
Secretary.  
  
Q    Admiral Kirby, when you talked to your former — former Pentagon
colleagues, what did they tell you in terms of why Austin didn’t
immediately inform higher-level officials here?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Well, again, I’d refer you to them to speak to that.  That —
but as Karine said, the Secretary’s statement was — was very clear.  He
takes full responsibility for the decisions he made with respect to this
procedure.  And that includes the decisions about — about how that —
that procedure was communicated.   
  
Q    Does —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  He takes full responsibility for that.  
  
Q    Does that decision mean he had specifically communicated to his
close staff not to more widely tell people about what —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I —  
  
Q    — his procedure was?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  We don’t have that kind of level of granularity here. 
That’s something that only they can speak to.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, St- — oh.  
  
Q    What was the President’s reaction today when he found out?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  His first reaction is, as Karine rightly said, we all want
to wish him the very best.  I mean, this is — sadly, this is a disease
that affects many millions of American men, particularly at that stage
in life.  And the key is early diagnosis, you know, early screening.  
  
I think — look, we’re all going to learn a whole — whole heck of a lot
of lessons from this past week.  One of the lessons I hope that
everybody takes away is the value of early screening.  
  
Q    And an entire month lapsed from early December when the diagnosis
was found out until today when the President even found out?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Mm-hmm.  Is that a question?  
  
Q    Yes, just triple confirming.   
  
MR. KIRBY:  (Laughs.)  Well, the Pentagon already talked about when the
Secretary was diagnosed.  It was early December.  And as their statement
said, in consultation with his doctors, he elected to have the procedure
done later in the month to coincide with the holidays.   
  
And as Karine rightly also said, the President didn’t know about the
diagnosis until this morning.  But his — his reaction is he wishes the
Secretary all the best for a speedy recovery.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Steve.  
  
Q    John, did the President or the White House instruct Secretary
Austin to make this disclosure today?   
  
MR. KIRBY:  No.   
  
Q    Okay.  Does the President plan to stick with Secretary Austin
through the rest of the term?   
  
MR. KIRBY:  Yes.  
  
Q    Okay.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, M.J.  
  
Q    Has the President spoken with Secretary Austin since their
conversation on Saturday?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  No.  
  
Q    Secretary Austin, we now know, was under anesthesia on December
22nd.  The White House, at the time, didn’t know.  What would have
happened if there had been some national security emergency in the White
House, the President had called on Secretary Austin on that day?   
  
MR. KIRBY:  Well, it’s a hypothetical, and it’s speculative.  But I
think it’s important to remember: The whole idea of delegation of
authority — you need to have a process for delegation of authority.  No
different than on a warship.  You got a captain and you have a
second-in-command, and sometimes the second-in-command has to take
over.  There’s a process for that.   
  
An- — but I hate getting into hypotheticals.  But let’s, just for sake
of argument, run that through real quickly.  Had there been a need by
the Commander-in-Chief to get — to task the Defense Department or to
seek greater — greater clarity from the Defense Department about a
specific issue, the Deputy Secretary, Kathleen Hicks, who had that
authority delegated to her, who had a full communication suite with her
while she was on leave and — and fully staffed, would have been more
than capable of being the Acting Secretary of Defense for that period of
time.   
  
Q    Right.  But importantly, in that hypothetical, the White House
would have learned by not being able to reach Secretary Austin on that
day that —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I mean —  
  
Q    — a delegation of —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  — I — I don’t know how I can prove that that’s the case. 
But it didn’t happen.  But there were — she had full authority to — to
del- — to run the Defense Department.   
  
Q    And just one more on this.  Now that the Pentagon has shared that
Secretary Austin underwent surgery for prostate cancer, does the White
House and does the President believe that he should have been afforded
the privacy to not share with the public what that medical procedure
was?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Does the President believe that the Secretary should have
been afforded the privacy not to disclose?  
  
Q    The specifics of the medical treatment.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  The President believes and has since the beginning of the
administration that transparency with the American people is really
important.  And he knows, being a public figure for his entire life,
that, as a public figure, you have an added burden to be as transparent
about your personal situation as possible.  
  
Now, that doesn’t mean — you don’t — you’re still an American.  This
doesn’t mean you don’t have a right to any privacy.  But as a Cabinet
official, as a Senate-confirmed official in the administration,
everybody, when they sign up for that and raise their right hand, they
know that, you know, there — there comes an obligation with that to be
as transparent about your personal situation as you can, certainly if it
— if it affects, in any way, the administration of the duties that
you’ve — you’ve taken the oath to — to do.  
  
Q    So, does he believe that Secretary Austin should have been able to
keep this specific detail private?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I’m not going to get inside the President’s head on — on —
on that particular right to privacy on this particular issue.   
  
He — number one, he’s concerned about Secretary Austin.  Full faith,
trust, and confidence in his ability to lead the Defense Department. 
Glad he’s on the mend.  Hope that he gets back to work soon.  
  
Obviously, his first and foremost concern is the Secretary’s health and
recovery and making sure that he has the time and the space and gets the
medical care that he needs to recover fully.   
  
And, as Karine noted, we’re already taking steps here.  And we’re — and
they’re taking steps over at the Pentagon to learn from this episode, in
terms of specific notification processes, to make sure that it doesn’t
happen again.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  Gabe, go ahead.  
  
Q    Admiral, to pick up on Mary’s point and also because the Chief of
Staff Zients sent out that memo today, the President didn’t learn about
this for a month after the diagnosis in early December.  Just quite
simply, does the President think that’s acceptable?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  It is not optimal, Gabe.  It is — for a situation like this
to go as long as it did without the Commander-in-Chief knowing about it
or the National Security Advisor knowing about it or, frankly, other
leaders that — at the Department of Defense, that’s not the way this is
supposed to happen.  
  
The President understands that, and — and that’s why he wants the Chief
of Staff to take a look at processes across the administration and
agencies here.  And that’s why DOD is also looking at their own
procedures to make sure that that doesn’t happen again.  
  
Q    The Pentagon referred to the surgery as an “elective procedure.” 
Technically, it may be.  But isn’t that, at best, misleading?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  As — as far as I know, Gabe — again, I barely got a history
degree, so I’m not capable of talking about medical stuff. 
(Laughter.)   
  
But as far as I know, that phrase, “elective medical procedure,” came in
the statement by the two doctors at Walter Reed.  That wasn’t a Pentagon
assessment.  That was the wording chosen by the two doctors.  
  
Q    But isn’t it misleading for the Pentagon to put that forward?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  The — you’d have to talk to the Pentagon and the doctors.   
  
Q    Well —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Gabe, I’m not a — I’m not a physician.  The two physicians
that are responsible, they used that phrase.  They should speak to what
that means.  I’m not an expert.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Peter.  
  
Q    Thank you.  John, what kind of Commander-in-Chief is President
Biden that at a time when American forces are under fire in the Middle
East, he can go days without knowing that his Defense Secretary is in a
hospital bed?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Peter, there’s a lot to your question.  So, I want you to
bear with me for just a second.  First of all, at no time was the
ability for the United States military to defend our national security
interests compromised.  At no time was the Commander-in-Chief not always
in command and control of our military forces around the world.  
  
And over the course of those days, we did take military action — action
that he approved — taking out a senior militia commander in Iraq with
what we call a dynamic strike, a strike that he had approved many days
before, which — for which the theater commander had full permission to
execute.   
  
We did shoot down drones and missiles in the Red Sea — our ships at sea,
because he made sure they had the existing authorities and the
capabilities and the training to do that.   
  
So, he has been on — on top of these issues all the way throughout.   
  
Now, look, what your question kind of gets to is — and I’ve seen some of
the sniping out there, you know, that — how effective can the process be
if the Secretary can be gone and we — and we don’t know about it?  I
think what you need to understand and I hope people will understand is
that the national security decision-making process does not require — in
fact, should not require — Cabinet-level officials being the sole people
in the room making decisions on any given day.  
  
You staff these things from the middle up, and then the Cabinet
officials, whether it’s Secretary Blinken or Secretary Austin, come
together as appropriate to make the key decisions, which happened.  It
happened on the 1st of January.  
  
If you’ll bear with me, because I think your question really gets to a
bigger issue, and I’d like to just — if I could, with Karine’s
permission, I just want to walk you through a little bit of the timeline
here because I think it’s important context.   
  
So, on the 31st of December, that was a Sunday, Jake Sullivan held —
held a lengthy secure telephone conference with the Central Command
Commander, General Kurilla, to discuss a bunch of issues, the situation
in the Middle East.  And, of course, there’s a lot to that.  
  
The next day, on the 1st of January, President Biden convened a secure
telephone conference with Mr. Sullivan, with Secretary Austin, with the
Joint Chiefs Chairman General Brown, Secretary Blinken, the DNI, the CIA
director, and other members of the team.   
  
They covered developments in the Middle East.  President Biden directed
the NSC, Department of Defense, and the State Department to accelerate
work with allies and partners on a joint statement on the Houthi attacks
in the Red Sea, which was to be issued, according to the President’s
direction, no later than Wednesday.  You saw, we did that.  I came to
the podium and read that out.  
  
From Monday, the 1st of January, through Wednesday, the 3rd, the
National Security Advisor, his deputy, Middle East Coordinator Brett
McGurk, spoke repeatedly with their counterparts in multiple foreign
capitals to secure the support for that joint statement.  Senior NSC
officials coordinated hour by hour with senior Pentagon officials who
were also making phone calls and securing support from foreign
partners.  
  
The President’s final approval on that statement happened shortly
thereafter.  And, as you know, it was issued on the 3rd of January.   
  
Also on the 3rd, there was a principals committee meeting on Haiti, and
neither Secretary Austin nor General Brown attended.  They were
represented by — by deputies.  That is not uncommon that a — at a
principals committee meeting, for whatever reason, a principal may not
be able to attend.  
  
Q    Okay.  Thank you for all the detail on that.  But more broadly, why
should we believe anything that this administration tells us about
anything ever again?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I think we all recognize, and I think the Pentagon has been
very, very honest with themselves about the — the challenge to
credibility by what — by what has transpired here and by what — and by
how — how hard it was for them to be fully transparent with the American
people.  I think we all recognize that.  
  
And — wait, wait — now, just give me a second now.  I know you got
another one coming here, but —  
  
But we all recognize that this didn’t unfold the way it should have on
so many levels — not just the notification process up the chain of
command, but the transparency issue.  We all recognize that.  And I
think we all want to make sure we learn from that.   
  
I — it’s up to you and your colleagues and it’s up to the American
people to determine, you know, how much they’re going to ascribe what
happened here to our credibility on every single issue.   
  
But in — in every way, Secretary Austin has been an exceptional Defense
Secretary, and he still has the full faith and confidence of the
Commander-in-Chief.  He has led the Department at an incredibly
dangerous time for our national security interests and those of our
allies and partners.   
  
Q    But if the administration is going to go to such great lengths to
keep secrets about the Defense Secretary’s health, how can anybody be
certain that the administration would not go to the same lengths to keep
secret problems with President Biden’s health in the future?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  If — if you could logically argue — and you can’t — but if
you could logically argue that the admin- —  
  
Q    How —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Wait, wait —  
  
Q    He’s 81 years old.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Wait a second.  Just give me a second here, bub.   
  
Q    What’s their re- —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I’ll get there.   
  
If — if the administration made some sort of Machiavellian effort across
the board to — just to keep this from getting public, then I think your
question has merit and — and certainly is a fair one.  I don’t think
it’s a fair one because that’s not what happened here, Peter.  
  
What happened here is the Secretary of Defense, for whatever reason — I
can’t answer the question why — that information wasn’t shared.  It
wasn’t shared widely in the department —  
  
Q    Isn’t that worse?   
  
MR. KIRBY:  — and it certainly wasn’t shared with the interagency.  
  
Q    You guys didn’t know.  Isn’t that worse?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  It’s not — it’s not good.  It’s certainly not good, which is
why, again, we want to learn from this.  We want to — we want to make
sure that it doesn’t happen again.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  We got to go around here.   
  
Go ahead, Jared.  
  
Q    Given that this was suboptimal, as you said, and given the
commitment to transparency that the administration has, how do you
square that with the confidence that the President expresses in the
Secretary?  
MR. KIRBY:  The President respects that he took full responsibility for
it in his statement.  That — that makes a difference.   
  
And he also respects the work that Secretary Austin has done on a range
of issues since he has become Secretary of Defense, whether that’s
helping lead the world in support for Ukraine — it was Secretary
Austin’s idea to come up with the Ukraine Contact Group — whether that’s
support to Israel, making sure that they can defend themselves against
Hamas.   
  
Look at everything that the Secretary has done in — in the
Indo-Pacific.  Do you think it was by accident that the Philippines
agreed to let the United States military have additional access to bases
there?  No.  That was the hard work of the Defense Secretary.   
  
I could go on and on and on.  He’s confident in Secretary’s — Secretary
Austin’s ability to lead in the future because he has seen how well he
has led in the past.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Asma.  
  
Q    Yeah, on the Secretary, I have a question.  You just said a moment
ago that you don’t know why the information was rela- — was not
relayed.  Has it been privately conveyed to you all about why it was not
relayed?  
MR. KIRBY:  We have certainly made it clear that we would like to learn
more about the information flow process.  
  
Q    And have you received any clarification?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I’m not at liberty to disclose any.  I’m not aware that
there has been any — you know, any details provided as a result of the —
the why the information was — was so — was so siloed.  But we obviously
have conveyed our interest in learning more.   
  
Q    And then, on a separate topic, on the Middle East.  Israel’s
Supreme Court rejected a request from international news outlets to
allow foreign journalists.  Many of us probably here in the newsroom
here have colleagues who wanted to be able to get in.  That request was
rejected.  I’m curious if ever in conversations with the Israeli
officials that you all have been in touch with have requests for media
access ever been made?  And (inaudible) —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  That is a great question I don’t have an answer to.  But
I’ll tell you what, I’ll go back and take a look at that.  I’m not aware
that there have been requests made by outlets and denied by the Israeli
government to get into Gaza.  Is that what you’re saying?  
  
Q    By the Israeli Supreme Court.  And there was a coalition of —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  They’ve said no.  
  
Q    — international news organizations.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Okay.  Let me go back and do some research on that, if you
don’t mind.  
  
Q    Okay.  And then can I ask just one other question?  I know
Secretary Blinken had a series of meetings in Israel today.  Were there
any tangible results from the Secretary’s meetings today that were
received?  I know the readouts provided very limited information.  And I
—  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Readouts —  
  
Q    Yes.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Readouts don’t provide limited information.  
  
Q    Yeah.  So, can you give us any sense of —  
  
Q    They provide zero.  (Laughter.)  
  
Q    — tangible results?  Well, I guess that this has led to the fact
that —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  James helping you out here.  (Laughter.)  
  
Q    You know, my colleagues on the ground had presented —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I know.  
  
Q    — the fact that the — the death toll over the last 24 hours was
amongst one of the most deadly days in Israel.  And so, given that and
given the Secretary’s visit — and I know civilian casualty deaths were
part of this — do you all feel like you’ve gotten any tangible
results?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I think — Secretary Blinken is still on the trip, so I think
we’re going to let him finish his trip.  I’m sure he will provide a
robust readout to us of what he discussed and what he learned.  And
we’ll — we’ll look forward to that report when he gets back to
Washington, D.C.  
  
But I don’t want to get in — step on his toes while he’s still in the
region.  And certainly, the question, really, is much better put to my
colleague at the State Department to speak to.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We’ve got to start wrapping it up.   
  
Go ahead, Anita.  
  
Q    Thank you so much, John.  Starting with Israel and President
Biden’s words yesterday that he was “quietly working” with Israel.  Is
he signaling — you know, with these words, is he signaling for a
ceasefire?  And does the administration still support Israel’s position
that a ceasefire can only be possible if Hamas is eliminated?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Nothing has changed about our view here that we don’t
support a ceasefire at this time.  And there’s no change to that because
we don’t believe that that benefits anybody but Hamas right now.  
  
We do continue to support humanitarian pauses but not a general
ceasefire right now.   
  
The President wasn’t signaling any change at all.  In fact, he was
signaling very much this co- — a very consistent view that he has had
since the beginning of the conflict.   
  
Q    (Inaudible.)  And then a China question.  Today, China launched a
satellite over Taiwan’s airspace.  Yesterday, they sent 10 aircrafts, 4
ships, and 4 balloons — some kind of weird “12 Days of Christmas.”  What
is the White House’s message to China for doing this four days ahead of
a major election in Taiwan?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I think — I think these actions raise questions in our mind
about what the intent here is.  You mentioned coincidental here in
timing to the — the election.  I don’t have proof that that’s what’s
driving that, but it sure does raise an interesting question — doesn’t
it? — about what their intentions are or what their — what their goals
are with this activity.   
  
I’ll tell you this.  We believe that — that the democratic institutions
of Taiwan need to be respected.  We want to see a free and fair and
transparent election.  And we’re willing and standing by to work with
whoever the people of Taiwan elect into their government.   
  
Q    I’ve got another one not about the Defense Secretary, if you want
to take it.   
  
MR. KIRBY:  None of your questions have been about the Defense
Secretary.  
  
Q    Thank you.  Burundi’s president recently called for gay people to
be stoned to death.  In light of the administration’s moves against
Uganda for passing a really hateful law against gay people, are you
mulling any actions against the government of Burundi for — for these
hateful statements?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I don’t have any decisions to speak to today, but obviously,
that — that is a — that’s just — that clearly would be a horrific
undertaking, a horrific way of punishing people for something they
shouldn’t be punished for.   
  
And we’ll — we’ll see where this goes.  But I think it’s very clear —
should be clear to the people in the government of Burundi and all over
the African continent how seriously we take the issue of civil and human
rights.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Yeah.  So, more than 100 journalists have been killed in Gaza by
Israel.  Isn’t it perhaps contradictory or harmful for the U.S. that
defends free speech to keep financing and giving arms to Israel when
they’re committing these crimes against journalists?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Your question presumes that they are deliberately,
maliciously going out to kill journalists.  And I’ve seen —  
  
Q    (Inaudible.)  
  
MR. KIRBY:  — we’ve seen no indication that they have done that.  We
continue to stand by the protection of journalists that are anywhere in
the world, certainly covering conflict.  But journalists and their jobs
and their ability to report needs to be protected by any nation waging
war.  And we’ve been very, very consistent on that.  
  
Q    But they’re not allowing international press in Gaza.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Well, as I said, I — I — I’m not aware of that report.  So,
I’ll go back and look and — and see what we know about —  
  
Q    Kirby, it is in many of our news outlets.  Right?  It is a number
of international news outlets.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I know, but I don’t — but I don’t —  
  
Q    Okay.  I —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  But I don’t know when you submit a request to go somewhere. 
It’s not like it comes through me.  So, I — I take the question.  I —
it’s a — it’s a fair one.  Let me find out about it and find out what
the ground truth is here.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Peter.  
  
Q    I come back to the December 22nd procedure that the Secretary had. 
Did the White House — he was put under general anesthesia at that time. 
He was not last week.  Did the White House know about that procedure? 
Even if we didn’t know what it was specifically for, did he know at that
time he was undergoing a procedure on that day?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  No.   
  
Q    Okay.  And when you said that the doctor — the doctors used the
phrase “elective” in their statement.  The statement they released today
does not use the word “elective,” and I wonder whether you think, then,
that that is — means the use of that to describe it last week by the
Pentagon was fully transparent.  The doctors described something that
does not sound elective.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Oh, well, then, that’s my mistake.  I — I thought that that
was in the doctors’ statement.  I — again, I refer you to the — the
Pentagon on that.   
  
I — I’m not at liberty — I’m not a medical expert, Peter.  I can’t — I
can’t —   
  
Q    You’re a communications expert, and you know what “elective
procedure” implies to the public that might not sound like what we’re
now being told.   
  
MR. KIRBY:  Again, I’d refer you to the Pentagon.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Does the President believe that there ought to be any consequences
for any DOD officials who knew about the condition of Secretary Austin
but did not report that information —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  That’s going to be up to —  
  
Q    — to the White House?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  That’s going to be up to the Pentagon leadership to
decide.  
  
Q    But what does the President believe?  I mean, he’s the
Commander-in-Chief.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  The President believes that —  
  
Q    In terms of —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  — Secretary Austin should get the appropriate care that he
needs to get better so he can get back at work at the Pentagon.  He
believes we ought to learn from this.  And it — both in terms of
notification and about transparency to the American people.  And — and
we’re going to — we’re going to do what we have to do.   
  
As Karine said, we’re also going to take steps here at the White House
to make sure that we have a good, tight alignment across the interagency
about notification procedures on delegation of authorities.  That’s what
the President —  
  
Q    But as of now,  
  
MR. KIRBY:  — wants to focus on.  
  
Q    — in terms of accountability for those who might not have shared
that information with the White House?  It’s not their DOD.  It’s the
taxpayers’.   
  
MR. KIRBY:  It is the taxpayers’ DOD, and it’s for the Defense
Department leadership to take a look at that and — and see what — what
they want to do in terms of accountability.   
  
The — the Secretary of Defense himself took full responsibility in his
statement over the weekend.  I mean, he had put it on his shoulders.   
  
Q    Thank you, sir.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Aurelia.  
  
Q    Okay.  Thank you.  Just another question, because I — I’m not in
the clear about that.  By not notifying the White House on December 22
that he was going under general anesthesia, did Secretary Austin violate
existing procedures, or was that in accordance with existing
procedures?  What happened?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Like I said yesterday, I mean, there’s an expectation that
if a Cabinet officer becomes hospitalized and for whatever reason, you
know, can’t continue to perform the duties, even temporarily, there’s an
expectation that that will be notified up — up the chain of command —  
  
Q    I’m sorry.  Did he meet that expectation?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  — to the Commander-in-Chief.   
  
That — there is an expectation that — that that would be passed up the
chain of command.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Akayla.  Then we’ve got to wrap it up,
guys.  
  
Q    Thanks.  Is the Pentagon reviewing the security clearance of Elon
Musk after these new allegations of drug use, which would obviously
violate his agreement?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  You’d have to talk to the Defense Department on that.   
  
Q    And then a second question on Hezbollah.  Israel now says that time
is running out for a diplomatic resolution with Hezbollah.  Is that how
the U.S. sees it, that time is running out?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  That — with — for Hezbollah?  
  
Q    Or to reach a diplomatic resolution with them.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Look, there’s — there’s always time for diplomacy.  And I
think you’ve seen us work hard at that.  Secretary Blinken is in the
region now.  Other officials here from the National Security Council
have traveled over there.  We — we believe there’s always time for
diplomatic resolutions.    
  
Okay.  Thanks.  
  
Q    One more?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We went long — we went long, guys.  I don’t know if
there’s any — anything else you guys have in mind.  But go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  President Trump’s lawyers today asserted that he
should be immune from prosecution.  What is President Biden’s opinion of
the Constitution on this matter? Should presidents be immune for
official actions?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I — I get why you’re asking the question.  I
see why you’re asking the question.  We’re going to be really careful
here given — given that there is an ongoing case.  So, not going to
comment.  Got to be super careful.  And we don’t normally comment on
ongoing legal case or make statements that could impact — right? — that
particular ongoing case.  Also, that doesn’t even involve the White
House.   
  
So, I’m just going to be super careful.  I would have to refer you to
Department of Justice.  Don’t want to — don’t want to get into the
middle of this.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Sticking with former President Trump.  He also said in an interview
yesterday that he hopes that if there is an economic downturn that it’ll
happen in the “next 12 months.”  And I’m wondering if the White House
has any reaction to that.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I’m going to be careful, as we all know, that he
is a — he is a candidate in this 2024 election.   
  
So, what I will say is that consumer sentiment, as you all know from the
data that came out at the end of last year, is surging and inflation is
falling.  And I think that matters.  And all the more reason that we
continue to make sure that Bidenomics — you know, continue to move
forward Bidenomics.   
  
And we’ve seen how historically — the success of the economic growth
that we’ve seen.  When you think about — when you think about the 14
million jobs, unemployment is at under 4 percent, obviously — obviously,
there’s a — also, wages are up — right? — which is incredibly important.
   
  
And — and so, look, one of the things I will say is that the cost
reduction momentum over the vola- — volatility — right? — if you think
about MAGAnomics, which economists warn would worsen inflation with tax
giveaways to — to rich special interest.  
  
And another thing I would say is that, look, when it comes to a
Commander-in-Chief’s duty, they’re not supposed to wish an economic
downturn.  They’re supposed to make sure that the — we put the American
peoples first.  That is what a Commander-in-Chief is supposed to do.  
  
They’re not supposed to hope that American families suffer.  That’s not
what a Commander-in-Chief is supposed to do.  They’re supposed to put
forward a economic plan that helps all Americans.   
  
And so, you know, it is — it is a — it is clearly –clearly unacceptable
and shameful.  And what <s>Republicans official</s> \[Republican
officials\] should hope for — they should hope for that we continue the
economic progress that this President has made.  
  
Q    And then just one more clarification on — on Secretary Austin.  So,
when Jake Sullivan was informed on Thursday, who informed him?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  It was Jake Sullivan and the Chief of Staff informed
the President.  Are you asking who informed —  
  
Q    I’m asking who from the Pentagon told Jake Sullivan.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh.  I — I don’t have that.  I don’t have the timeline
of the — or the name of the — of the individuals that may have informed
Jake Sullivan.   
  
What I can tell you is Jake Sullivan was informed by the Pentagon last
Thursday.  And from there, they were able to inform the President —
“they” meaning the Chief of Staff and the National Security Advisor
informed the President.  
  
I don’t have the — who — who actually told the National Security
Advisor.  
  
Q    And did whoever at the Pentagon informed Jake Sullivan tell him at
that time that they regretted the delay or give any explanation for the
delay?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I get the question.  I just don’t have specifics
on what was actually communicated in that conversation.   
  
What I can tell you is that’s when National Security Advisor Jake
Sullivan was certainly informed about Secretary Austin’s
hospitalization, but I just don’t have anything further on specifics of
that conversation.  I can also share with you, as we have many times,
that the President was informed thereafter.  
  
Go ahead, Gabe.  
  
Q    Has Secretary Austin apologized to the President?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have any specifics into their conversation. 
All I can — as you know, as we’ve let all of you know, that they had a
conversation on Saturday, the President and the Secretary.  I just don’t
have any details into what was discussed specifically.   
  
The President — as I said moments ago at the top of this briefing, the
President obviously wishes the Secretary well and hopes he has a speedy
recovery and wants to see him back — obviously, back at the Pentagon.  
  
Q    And, Karine, any reaction to Michelle Obama saying in an interview
that she’s terrified about the potential results of the election?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I want to be careful.  Again, we’re talking
about an upcoming election this year.  So, don’t want to comment on
that.  Obviously, we’re going to let the former First Lady speak for
herself.  
  
What I can tell you is that she obviously supports the agenda — this
President’s agenda — President Biden’s agenda and how we’re moving
forward in making sure that we have an economy that works for all and
moving forward, certainly, on implementing some of these important key
historic legislation that the President was able to pass.  
  
But I’m not going to comment specifically on what she — she stated.  
  
Go ahead, Steve.  
  
Q    How close are you to a border security deal?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, as I stated yesterday on — when we were on Air
Force One headed to South Carolina, look, we — the President continues
to believe that we need to get to a bipartisan agreement to — to really
deal with the border security issue.  There has been a productive
conversation on the Senate side, Republicans and Democrats.  
  
So, we are hopeful.  This is a president that is optimistic, as you
know.  We are hopeful that we will get to a bipartisan agreement.   
  
I know one of the negotiators, as I stated yesterday, said that it would
be — you know, would be likely to have some text this week.  And so,
look, this is a negotiation process.  It is a bipartisan one.  We
appreciate that conversation.   
  
The President understands what is happening at the border is something
that’s been happening for decades and we need to address it, which is
why — again, why he put — you know, the first piece of legislation when
he walked into the administration was to be on — on comprehensive
immigration and to deal with that issue.  
  
Go ahead, M.J.  
  
Q    Has the President been getting briefed on the Alaska Airlines —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:   So, I want to —  
  
Q    — disaster — near disaster?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I — yeah, no, I know exactly what you’re talking
about.  So, first of all, we are — we are glad to have seen that — that
— we were relieved that all passengers and crew are safe.   
  
The FA- — FAA’s priority is always keeping Americans safe.  That is most
important.  And in that spirit, these particular Boeing aircraft will
remain grounded until operators completely — complete enhanced
inspections.   
  
The FAA will continue to support the National Transportation Safety
Board’s investigation into Alaska Airlines Flight 1282.  The NTSB is in
charge, obviously, as you all know, in investigating these types of
investigation.  And I would certainly point you to them on any updates
on this particular investigation.  
  
The President, obviously, is going to continue to be updated on these
things.  
  
Q    Does the White House primarily see this as a Boeing issue or an FAA
issue?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, what I can say is FAA certainly sees this as
a priority to make sure that we’re keeping Americans safe.  That is
certainly their approach here and what they believe needs — how we need
to move forward.  
  
Obviously, the Boeing aircraft — there’s going to be investigation on
these Boeing aircraft.  That’s why they’re going to be grounded.  We
don’t know yet.  Right?  We have to do an investigation to see exactly
what occurred here.  
  
But they’re going to ground them, out of — out of abundance of
precaution and safety for the American people, to make sure that we see
what — to — to <s>enhance inspectation</s> \[complete enhanced
inspections\] and to see exactly what occurred.   
  
So, I don’t want to get ahead of that.  But they’re taking, obviously,
extra precautions here.  
  
Q    Would President Biden tell the American people that they should
feel safe flying?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I think the American people should sa- –feel safe
flying.  I — like I said, FAA’s number-one priority is the safety of
Americans.  I think by the fact that these Boeing aircrafts are going to
be grounded is important.  Right?  That is taking — taking the safety of
Americans first.  
  
And FAA is — that’s their main priority, is to — making sure that
occurred.  
  
Q    So, he believes it is safe to fly now?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yes.  He believes it is safe to fly.  But obviously,
FAA is going to do everything that they can to make sure that American —
American people, American families are safe.  
  
Go ahead, Karen.  
  
Q    Thanks.  When the White House found out last Thursday that the
Secretary was in the hospital, did somebody ask the Pentagon why and not
get an answer from the Pentagon?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have any specifics to share.  What we know —
what we can tell you is that, as you know, the Pentagon is going to do a
review on their process and that that is something, obviously, we
welcome — a 30-day review.  And that’s what we want to see.  And we’ll
get a sense of — of how — how the process went.  
  
And so, you know, that’s something that obviously is important.  And you
saw, as I stated at the top, the Chief of Staff put a memo that went to
agencies on making sure that we take a good look at the process here. 
But —  
  
Q    But beyond —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Mm-hmm.  
  
Q    Beyond, like, a process, just from a human aspect of this, when
Jake Sullivan and then Jeff Zients and then the President hear that
Secretary Austin is in the hospital, didn’t they ask, “Why is he in the
hospital?”  How did the President not know until this morning that it
was cancer?  How did five days go without knowing the diagnosis?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  That is something that we’re trying to find —  
  
Q    Did the Pentagon not give an answer?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I hear you, but that is something that we are
going to get a sense of this process, right?  That’s why they’re going
to do a review.  That’s why the Pentagon is going to do a review. 
That’s why the Chief of Staff put out a memo to Cabinet — Cabinet — to
the Cabinets on protocols here to get a sense of what — how they’ve been
moving with this process and how we’re going to continue to move
forward.  We do not want this to happen again, obviously.   
  
But, you know, we’re going to get a better sense, once the Pentagon does
the 30-day review, to see how this occurred.  Obviously, this is not
something we want to see.   
  
In the meantime, we want to make sure that Secretary Austin is — gets
back on his feet and recovers.  And I think that’s really important
too.   
  
Q    But do you see what I mean?  Just kind of on human level —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I —  
  
Q    When the President hears he’s in the hospital —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And, Karen —  
  
Q    — again, doesn’t he —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Karen, I totally — I totally underst- —  
  
Q    — doesn’t he say, “Why?  Why is he there?”  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I totally understand the question.  
  
Q    And then you say, “Well, we’re going to review this with a
process.”  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I totally understand the question.  I get it.  I
get you’re — you’re wanting to know what — what was the reaction, the
emotional reaction of folks here and, kind of, the chain of command —
right? — once they learned about the Secretary’s hospitalization.  I — I
get the question.   
  
I don’t have reactions — right? — emotional reactions to — to how people
— folk- — folks here felt when they learned about this.  I just can’t
speak to that.   
  
What I can speak to is that we want to make sure that we have a process,
protocols — robust cro- — protocols — because we’ve always said
transparency is at the center of this administration.   
  
We want to make sure that we can — that — how we move — how these
agencies move forward, that there’s a robust protocol in place.  And
that’s what we’re asking.  That’s why the Chief of Staff, Zients, sent a
memo to agencies so we have a sense of how are they going to move
forward with these types of situations or issues.   
  
And, again, Pentagon is going to do their review.  They announced that
yesterday.  It’s going to be a 30-day review.  And we’ll have a better
sense of the timeline here and what had hap- — occurred.   
  
Q    In the back, Karine.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Ed.  
  
Q    Yeah, thanks, Karine.  When will the President hold another solo
news conference?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have anything to preview at this time.  
  
Q    But on communications within the administration, the last Cabinet
meeting was three months ago.  So, does the President know where his
Cabinet members are and what they’re doing?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  The Pres- — the President is in regular touch.  And
not just the President.  Obviously, there are folks here, whether it’s
the Office of Cabinet Affairs, other folks here in the White House that
is in regular touch with, certainly, leaders of these — the different
Cabinets on a regular basis.   
  
And I just don’t have anything else to share.  But, you know, the
President, when — the President — obviously, this is his Cabinet, and he
talks to them on a regular basis.  I just don’t have a specific timeline
or specifics on when that happens.  
  
Q    On the Alaskan Airlines flight.  We’ve all seen those pictures. 
Where is the Transportation Secretary?  Shouldn’t he be out reassuring
Americans that it’s safe to travel?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, the — you saw the Secretary, for weeks and days,
talking about how — about, you know, how the airlines were — were being
held to account and how we are — we’re in a different place, certainly,
than we were last year during the holiday season.  And we saw the
Secretary out there pretty — pretty — in a robust way.   
  
And so, look, the Secretary — I’m sure I can speak for him right now and
say that, of course, he wants to make sure Americans feel safe flying. 
That is part of — certainly part of his — part of his responsibility. 
And so, he certainly can speak to that himself.   
  
But he has been very, very clear about that.  The Secretary, you know,
has been very clear about that over the past three years of this
administration, making sure that there — there is safety, that there’s —
we meet those safety protocols, Americans feel safe flying.  And that is
the number-one priority, certainly of FAA.  
  
Q    One — and one more on the economy, if I could.  JPMorgan’s CEO,
Jamie Dimon, told Fox Business that the extra COVID assistance runs out
in 2024, higher credit card balances.  He says the chances of a
recession are higher than a soft landing.  How concerned is the
President?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I appreciate the question.  I’m actually glad
you asked the question because, look, last year, forecasters said with
100 percent certainty that there would be a recession — 100 percent
certainty.  That’s what you heard over and over and over last year.   
  
That didn’t happen.  And the President never thought — he never thought
that we needed to have a recession to bring inflation down.  He never
thought that.  And he was right.   
  
And just a couple of things.  I know you like data.  2.7 million jobs
created last year, more than any year under the previous
administration.  Unemployment below 4 percent for 23 months in a row and
the longest stretch in over 50 years.  Inflation fell to 2 percent over
the last six months, and wages and wealth are higher than — than before
the pandemic.   
  
And that is not consistent with a recession.  That — remember — and you
— you were asking me this — this question over and over again.  “They
say there’s going to be a recession.  They say there’s going to be a
recession.”  And it didn’t happen.  It didn’t happen.   
  
So, I will quote Secretary Yellen here, what she said yesterday, which
is: “What we’re seeing now, I think, we can describe as a soft
landing.”  
  
AIDE:  One or two more.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Can you give us any information about what’s on tap for tomorrow?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have anything to preview.  I’m sure the team
will be sending out our regular — what the next day is going to look
like for the President.  Just don’t have anything to preview for
tomorrow.   
  
I just previewed what the President is going to, certainly, be doing on
Friday — going to Allentown — and we’ll have more on that as well.  So,
I’ll just leave it there.   
  
Asma, I’m going to try — there’s some folks in the back that I haven’t
called on.  
  
Q    Yes.  (Laughter.)  Including the ones you “love,” quote, “so
much.”  (Laughter.)  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Go ahead, Steve.   
  
Q    Thank you.  Sorry, James.  I’ve got —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  My other favorite person.   
  
Q    I’ve got two questions.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yep.  
  
Q    The first one.  The First Son’s art dealer today is testifying on
the Hill.  And he said that he did not have any talks with White House
officials about setting up the supposed agreements to ensure that the
buyers IDs were anonymous and that, in fact, many of the IDs were
known.   
  
There was reporting during the President’s first year in office that
some White House officials were engaged in setting up this supposed
agreement.  Can you just clarify what the case was?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m just not going to comment from here.  I would
refer you to my colleagues at the White House — White House legal
office.  I just don’t have anything to share.   
  
Q    Before my second one, just a plug for — a request for Ian Sams to
perhaps take questions one day.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, you have full acc- — you have access to Ian
Sams.  He’s very good at responding to all of you and taking your
questions.  So, you know, I think that’s important.  He — he’s been
very, very good at connecting with — with everyone in this room who has
questions like you have about anything that is related to what you just
asked.  
  
Q    And my second question —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Third question.   
  
Q    Well — (laughter) — my second question is that we have new
reporting that the mayor of Kyiv, Sitting Mayor Vitali Klitschko, was
involved with a business entity called Burisma Geothermal that was
formerly chaired by the First Son when he was the Second Son.  The
President met with the mayor multiple times, of course, over the years. 
And I was hoping that you could say whether the President knew about
this business relationship during their meetings.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I would refer you to the White House Counsel’s
Office.   
  
Go ahead, James.  
  
Q    Thank you very much, Karine.  With respect to the incident
involving Secretary Austin.  From your statements and those of Admiral
Kirby, we learned today that President Biden expresses full faith and
confidence in this Cabinet officer, even though neither the President
nor anyone else on his staff yet knows why Secretary Austin violated the
existing rules and withheld this information.  Is it the posture of the
President that Secretary Austin’s motivation is irrelevant to the
President’s estimation of him in this incident?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What I will say is — and we have said this many times
— is that Secretary Austin put out a statement taking full
responsibility of — of what we — has unfolded over the last couple of
days, and the President appreciates that.   
  
And I have the statement right in front of me, but I’m sure you’ve seen
it.  And — and one of the things that’s in here, he said, is, “I also
understand the media concerns about transparency, and I recognize I
could have done a better job ensuring the public was appropriately
informed.  I commit to doing better.  But it is important to say this is
my medical procedure.  And I have — I take full responsibility for my
decisions about disclosure.”   
  
So, Secretary took full — full responsibility.  I think that is
important to note.  We appreciate that he’s taken full responsibility. 
And one of the things that I’ve stated multiple times at this podium in
the past couple of minutes is that the Pentagon is going to do a full
review.  We’re going to let that review happen.  It’s going to take
about 30 days, as they stated in their memo.   
  
And — and, also, we’re going to take extra steps here.   
  
Q    But we have a —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  As we’ve stated with the — with the memo — as I’ve
stated with the memo that the Chief of Staff sent out to agencies.  
  
Q    Just to follow on this before I pose an unrelated second question,
the — the motivations on the part of the Secretary for doing this are
unknown to the President.  And you’re telling us there’s going to be a
30-day review, et cetera.  Shouldn’t the expression of full faith and
confidence in this Cabinet officer await the results of that
investigation?   
  
And, also, isn’t it a key piece of information for the President to know
why Secretary Austin did this before he —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So —  
  
Q    — expresses full faith and confidence in him?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I think one of the things that’s so important — and we
don’t see this enough in these — in today’s world — is for someone to
take responsibility, for someone to actually say, “I made a mistake, and
I take full responsibility.”  And I think that’s important here.   
  
Q    But the motivation is not important?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I am not going to speak — I’m not going to speak to
that.  I’m going to speak to the action of taking responsibility here. 
And I think that’s important.  And the President appreciates that.   
  
And the Admiral laid out some of the — some of the — the — the things or
actions and — that the Secretary has taken over the last two years that
has been very helpful and that has really played into his leadership as
Secretary of the Defense.  And so, he has done a — really a stellar job
in that — in that position.  The President appreciates the job that he’s
done.  And he’s taken responsibility.  And I think that’s important here
as well.  
  
Q    On this event Friday in Allentown, Pennsylvania, that you just
disclosed to us.  You’ve told us that it’s going to be a speech about
Bidenomics.  How ought the so-called ordinary American at home to
distinguish between official events and political events in this
season?  I’ve done this long enough to know that the President’s remarks
in Allentown on Friday are going to sound an awful lot like a campaign
appearance.  So, what distinguishes an official event from a campaign
event at this point?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, we’ve been very clear.  I’ve — you know, when
— when there’s been a campaign event, I’ve said it’s a campaign event,
and you have to go to the campaign — right? — to get information.  And
usually a campaign event comes from the campaign.  And so, that’s very
clear.  That is very clear.   
  
And so — so, I don’t know how else we could be more clearer than that. 
And we’ll have more on what Friday will look like, and we will certainly
share that with all of you.   
  
And we’ve been clear —   
  
Q    But —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — campaign event — campaign event comes from the
campaign.  They lead those events.  They speak to those events.  And we
have been very careful to let that live with the campaign.   
  
Q    But the answer you’ve given me suggests that the same event can
transpire in — with exactly the same —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  
  
Q    — words and actions — hang on —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, no, no.  
  
Q    — in — in one — you know, twice in a row identically.  But if one
is organized by the White House, it’s an official event.  And if one is
organized by the campaign, that’s a campaign event.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I want to be very clear here.  What we’re doing
has been done by other presidents.  It — it really — when there is a
reelection for a president, there tends to be a campaign event and there
tends to be official event.  That is not unusual.  
  
The way that we have moved forward with this process over the last
couple of weeks — right? — as we’re in this — in 2024, we’re not doing
anything different.  We’re not doing anything new.  This is a protocol
that has been — that has been — has been existing for some time.  So,
I’m — I’m just not going to get into a rabbit — go down a rabbit hole
with you.  We’re not doing anything different.  We’re do- — we’re being
very clear and following the protocol.   
  
I’m going to move around.  I’m being pulled here.  But go ahead.  
  
Q    Tomorrow, House Republicans plan to hold an impeachment hearing
against Mayorkas.  What’s the White House response to that?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I’ve spoken to this many times.  And I’ve said
before, the House Republicans are playing political — political games
instead of doing their jobs.  That’s what they’re doing.   
  
And it’s really shameful.  It’s really shameful that this is how they
choose to fo- — what they choose to focus on.  Truly.   
  
Q    And —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What the American people want to see is — is — is
Congress to deliver, and House Republicans continue — continue to do
these political stunts, and they don’t want — they want to play
political games.   
  
And so, it is shameful.  What we want to see, what Americans want to see
is real results — real results to the issues that — that American people
have across the country.   
  
Q    And any more details you can provide on the sticking points right
now in the border talks?  Parole has been mentioned by negotiators.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I — totally — totally get the question.  Not going
to get ahead of — get ahead of the negotiators.  I’m going to let them
have those conversations.   
  
Obviously, if I say anything, then I’m stepping into their process, and
we don’t want to do that.   
  
It is — what we have said is we believe that process is heading in the
right direction.  And we appreciate that we’re — both Republicans and
Democrats are coming together and — and trying to find a solution to
what we see at the border.  And the President has always said we need to
see a bipartisan agreement on an issue that has existed for decades.   
  
Thanks, everybody.  We’ll — we’ll be back tomorrow.  Thanks,
everybody.   
  
4:16 P.M. EST
