---
date: '2024-01-24'
modified_time: 2024-01-24 15:47:13-05:00
published_time: 2024-01-24 15:47:12-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/01/24/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-nsc-coordinator-for-strategic-communications-john-kirby-42/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and NSC Coordinator for\
  \ Strategic Communications John\_Kirby"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

11:53 A.M. EST  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Hello.  Good afternoon.  
  
Q    Good afternoon.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hi.  Hi, Weijia.  (Laughs.)  
  
Q    Not quite.  It’s still morning.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, that’s right.  We are a bit early.  We got nine
more minutes before it’s afternoon.  Okay.  
  
Today, President Biden announced that a record-breaking 21.3 million
Americans have enrolled in healthcare coverage through the Affordable
Care Act.  It’s another major milestone in his work to expand access to
affordable healthcare and lower costs for families.  
  
Not only do more Americans have healthcare coverage than ever before,
but thanks to the Inflation Reduction Act, which every single Republican
in Congress voted against, this President has capped the cost of insulin
to 35 bucks for seniors, allowed Medi- — Medicare to negotiate lower
prescription drug prices for the first time ever, and has saved millions
of Americans an average of 800 bucks per <s>month</s> \[year\] on their
healthcare insurance.  
  
The American people have made it clear.  They don’t want the Affordable
Care Act weakened and/or repealed.  They want it strengthened and
protected.  
  
President Biden will continue to fight to bring down healthcare costs
and prescription drug costs as well.  
  
With that, we have the Admiral in the briefing room today, who’s going
to give us a little bit of an update on travel to Africa and also an
update on the latest on the Middle East.  
  
Okay.  Admiral.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Thank you.  Afternoon, everybody.  
  
So, yeah, I do a little bit of gripe — gra- —  
  
Q    Good afternoon?  Good morning.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Good morning.   
  
MR. KIRBY:  Yeah, good morning.  I’m sorry.  Yeah.  (Laughter.)  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Okay.  Okay.   
  
MR. KIRBY:  I wasn’t paying attention, clearly.   
  
I do have a little bit of a grab bag of stuff to get through.  And I’ll
— I’ll promise I’ll try to do it as quickly as I can.  
  
Yesterday, as I think you’re all aware, in direct response to a series
of escalor- — escalatory attacks against U.S. and coalition personnel in
Iraq and Syria — including, of course, at al-Asad Air Base over the
weekend — the United States military conducted strikes on facilities
that were used by the Iran-backed Kata’ib Hezbollah (inaudible) militia
group, as well as other affiliated groups in Iraq.  
  
Initial reports that we’re getting indicate that we had effective
results on all three targets: Two headquarters buildings and an
intelligence facility were destroyed.  
  
I want to emphasize that these actions were taken in self-defense
following, of course, the attack on our forces in Iraq and certainly
consistent with international and domestic law.  
  
As the President has said, we’re not going to hesitate to take necessary
action to protect our troops and our facilities, and we’ll stay vigilant
going forward, of course.  
  
Separately, I’m also sure that you saw yesterday a joint statement from
24 countries expressing support for the action that the United States
and our — United Kingdom armed forces — with support from Australia,
Bahrain, Canada, Netherlands — took against the Houthis on Monday.  
  
I think it’s notable that more and more countries now wanted to show
that they condemn the Houthis’ indiscriminate and unlawful attacks on
international commerce and that they support the actions that we and our
partners are taking.  
  
Now, as you may have seen, several Cabinet and senior administration
leaders are engaging with countries across the African continent this
week, building on our commitment to accelerate U.S.-Africa partnership
opportunities following the Africa Leaders Summit last year.  
  
Just run through quickly, if I can, just to, kind of, give you a sense
of the scope.  
  
Secretary Blinken, of course, is traveling to Cabo Verde, the Ivory
Coast, Nigeria, and Angola this week.  
  
U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Linda Thomas-Greenfield is
visiting Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Sierra Leone.  
  
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation CEO Scott Nathan led
a presidential delegation to attend the Inauguration of the DRC
President Ta- — sorry, To- — Tsheke- — To- — Teshikedi — Tshisekedi over
the weekend.  Apologize for that.  
  
EPA Administrator — Administrator Regan is in Mozambique and Ghana,
sharing solutions and building partnerships on a range of environmental
priorities.  
  
USAID Deputy Administrator Coleman is traveling to Maputo and the
central and northern regions of Mozambique.  
  
And the CDC’s Principal Deputy Director Nirav Shah is visiting the Sahel
and West Africa to discuss our health partnerships.  
  
And, of course, Jake Sullivan, our National Security Advisor, spoke with
his Kenyan count- — counterpart earlier this week.  
  
That’s a lot of activity just this week across the continent.  And
there’s just the start of what we think will be a very busy 2024.  
  
We’re looking forward to deepening those relationships and — and
improving on that coordination.  
  
Now, before I get to your questions, there — I do want to correct
something that I said yesterday.  I got asked about another meeting with
our Mexican par- — partners and whether there was something on the
schedule.  And I said that I wasn’t aware that there was anything on the
schedule.  But if I had done my homework, I would have been able to
answer that question better.   
  
At the conclusion of the last U.S.-Mexico Ministerial on Migration on
the 19th of January, we did say in our readout that we would continue
our strong cooperation on migration on the margins of the Trilateral
Fentanyl Committee meeting in Mexico City in early February.  And so,
we’ll have more to share soon on that.  
  
But — but I had — I was incorrect.  There was actually something on the
schedule, and it’s in early February.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Chris.  
  
Q    One person missing from your travel announcement with Africa:
President Biden.  Is he going to go to Africa this year?  He has said
he’s going to go.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I have nothing to announce with respect to presidential
travel.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, April.   
  
Q    Okay.  And one more thing.  Also, the Russians say that Ukraine
shot down a military transport craft carrying Ukrainian POWs.  Does the
U.S. have any information on that?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  No, we don’t.  We’ve seen the reports, but we’re not in a
position to confirm them.  
  
We’re obviously doing the best we can to try to get more clarity and
more information on it, but I don’t have anything more for you right
now.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, April, and then in the back.  
  
Q    John, could you give us information as to what the roadblocks were
last year for the President not to go and what some of the roadblocks
could be this year, in what is considered an intense year, why he would
not go?  What are some of the roadblocks?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I wouldn’t describe them as “roadblocks,” April.  I mean, as
you know, there was a lot of international travel last year, and it was
really a scheduling challenge.  And we’ll — we’ll see what this year
holds.  
  
The President is still very, very committed to making sure we are
expanding and deepening our relationships on the continent.  And as I
just laid out in the opening statement, there’s an — that’s just this
week.  There’s an awful lot going on.  
  
Q    But, as you said, there are scheduling challenges –there are
challenges, but the President made a commitment that he would go as well
as his Cabinet Secretaries.  The Vice President went last year.  The
Cabinet Secretaries —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — are still going.  What is the importance of going to Africa for
him in this moment still?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  He — he’s still committed to making sure that that — that
we’re all in on Africa.  And, again, I don’t have a —  
  
Q    But a travel (inaudible).  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I don’t have travel — I don’t have travel to speak to now,
April.  But — but I can assure you that the President is very, very
committed to deepening the relationships we have on the continent and to
furthering all the lines of effort that we agreed to in the Africa
Leaders Summit.  That’s why so many administration officials are — are
visiting right now.  
  
Q    So, what are the positives that have come out of all the
administration officials going and not him thus far?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  There’s an awful lot of good work being done here.  And I
just kind of laid out for you briefly who’s going and what they’re — and
why they’re going and what they’re — what they’re trying to get done. 
And all of these visits, all of these discussions very much build on the
Africa Leaders Summit and the things that we committed to doing
economically, diplomatically, socially, and even, in some ways, from a
security perspective.   
  
So, I think — let — we’ll — we’ll have good — I think, a sense once
these trips are over and these — these principals come back on — on what
kind of progress they made, and we’ll just continue to work at it.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Kevin.  
  
Q    The U.N. refugee agency in Gaza says there has been a mass casualty
event at one of its shelters in Gaza.  They say it was struck by two
tank shells.  There are hundreds of people who are sheltering —
displaced people who are sheltering here.  Does the White House have a
comment on this?  And does this reflect a lower-intensity phase of
fighting in Gaza?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I — I don’t have any information on this particular event,
the way you described it.  I — I didn’t — I don’t have any background on
it to share.  I’m just learning about it myself.  So, look, why don’t we
— when the briefing is over, we’ll see if we — you know, if we can
comment on it one way or the other.  I don’t know.  
  
That aside, with the — with the caveat that I don’t know anything about
this particular event that you’re describing, the Israelis have taken
steps to — to transition their operations.  They have removed a division
of troops.  That’s a lot of troops.  That’s thousands of troops.   
  
And they are pursuing, on the ground, more targeted operations against —
particularly against the leadership.  They are relying less on — on
airstrikes.  
  
Low-intensity operations doesn’t mean no-intensity operations.  And even
in a low-intensity environment — again, I won’t speak for them — but
from my own experience, even in low-intensity operations, you’re still
going to be in combat.  There is still going to be fighting and there’s
still going to be casualties.   
  
So, again, I would just — you know, as we think about this going
forward, we shouldn’t expect that as they transition to low-intensity
operations that there’s not still going to be some violence.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Andrea.  
  
Q    John, just continuing on the Gaza question.  Yesterday, the
President’s speech was interrupted by multiple protesters calling for a
ceasefire.  Now, we’ve seen these kinds of interruptions at — at various
events, but we’re also seeing increased polling among the American
public that is clamoring for a ceasefire.  Is the President — you know,
is his perspective on this changing at all, given the daily mounting
casualty toll?  Is he starting to rethink whether it might be prudent to
— to ask for a halt in — in the fighting and beyond just the pause?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I would remind that, since very early going in this
conflict, we have been urging our Israeli counterparts to be careful and
precise.  We have talked about the civilian casualties and how we don’t
want to see more.  We have urged them to take different actions, and
they have responded to that advice and counsel.  
  
He understands that there are strong feelings here on all sides, as you
would expect.  I mean, he’s been doing this a long, long time.  He also
believes it’s really important that Israel have the right and the
ability to continue to defend themselves against which is — what is
clearly still a viable threat from Hamas.   
  
But that doesn’t mean we’re going to stop, again, urging  
a stronger focus by our Israeli counterparts on minimizing civilian
casualties and on getting aid in.  
  
And you talked about a pause.  I would also remind that, from the very
beginning — or nearly the very beginning — this administration, under
President Biden’s leadership, has argued and tried to push for
humanitarian pauses in the fighting so that hostages could get out and
aid could get in.  And we are still doing that.  
  
Brett McGurk is in the region as we speak.  In fact, he’s in Doha today
having discussions with our Qatari counterparts about the possibilities
of another — another hostage deal.  
  
Q    Can I — can I just follow up on — sorry — on that?  
  
So, the President has been pushing for pauses.  You’ve been talking here
from the podium about pauses.  The Israeli — Israelis today have again,
sort of, ruled out a — a Gaza ceasefire.  They’ve said that there were
pauses for humanitarian purposes.  Those have been breached by Hamas. 
We’re hearing out of the region that there’s movement towards something
like a one-month pause.  Can you give us an update on that?   
  
And then, you know, whether — you know, whether that is — whether
there’s any additional language that would come as part of that about if
a further — like, a more permanent solution?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Yeah, I don’t have any additional context to provide today. 
We talked about this a little bit yesterday.  As I said, Brett is in the
region right now.  And while he’s having lots of conversations on lots
of issues, this is certainly top of his agenda.  And he’s in Doha, as I
said, today.  
  
I — I don’t want to get ahead of those discussions, except to repeat
what I said yesterday, which is these are very sober and serious
discussions we’re having.  And we certainly want to see another
humanitarian pause put in place so that we can, again, get aid in and
get people out.   
  
But how close we are to that and what the parameters of that are going
to look like, how many days and the — that’s all part of the discussions
we’re having right now.  And it would not be appropriate for me to try
to speculate on where that’s going right now.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We sadly don’t have too much time.  Go ahead,
Selina.  
  
Q    Thank you, Admiral.  On Sergey Lavrov.  He’s calling for an
emergency U.N. Council meeting over the plane crash.  Just want to get
your reaction to that, and if there could be any truth to the Russian
version of events that the U.S. believes there were Ukrainian prisoner —
prisoners of war on that plane.   
  
MR. KIRBY:  Again, we just don’t have enough information to comment on
this — on this plane crash.  We’re — we’ve seen the reports of it. 
We’re trying to get more information.  But it would be imprudent for me
to speculate beyond that.  I just don’t know the veracity of these — of
these reports.   
  
You know, the Ukrainians are claiming one thing.  The Russians are
claiming another.  And we just don’t know enough to comment on it.  
  
Q    And Iran’s Foreign Minister told ABC News yesterday that he
believes the risks of a “wider war in the region” is going up.  He’s
blaming the U.S. for it, says that if the U.S. stopped providing aid,
then Netanyahu wouldn’t survive for 10 minutes.  Wanted to get your
reaction on that.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  If — if the Iranian government is concerned about
escalation, then the best thing they could do would be to cut off the
support that they give to groups like Hamas and Hezbollah and these
Iran-backed militia groups in Iraq and Syria.  We don’t want to see
conflict escalate.  We don’t want to see some broader war.  We’re not
looking for a war or a conflict with anybody.  We’re actually trying to
de-escalate.   
  
And if the Iranians are serious about that and they want to de-escalate,
well, we would welcome them stopping this support.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  
  
Q    John, can you give an assessment on — on what the White House’s
assessment is of the hunger crisis in Gaza?  We know from several aid
groups that, you know, this —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — “could not be worse” is the words that have been used.  But
what’s the White House’s take on — on that right now?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  We understand that the situation — the humanitarian
situation in Gaza is dire.  And specifically, when it comes to food
insecurity, we’re mindful of that — which is why, again, you got Brett
in the region right now.  We’re trying to do everything we can to get
additional humanitarian pauses in place so that aid can get in.  
  
It is obviously designed to help us get hostages out, of course.  But
when you have a lull in the fighting, man, you got to take advantage of
that, and you got to get more trucks in.   
  
And so, we’re very much focused on this.  And that’s why food is such a
principal product of the humanitarian assistance that’s going in.  We’re
mindful, though — we’re very mindful —  
  
Q    Has the White House seen —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  — that a lot of people are hungry.   
  
Q    Has the White House seen reports that there are Palestinians who
are trying to make flour out of animal feed at this point, like, it is —
it is that level?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  We’re — we’re mindful of the dire circumstances that some
people are living in in terms of food insecurity there in Gaza. 
Absolutely.   
  
Now, one of the things we talked about — I don’t know, a week or so ago
— was we had worked with the Israelis to open up the Ashdod — Ashdod
port for the delivery — direct delivery into Gaza of flour, specifically
because we know how important flour and the ability to create meals from
that is to the people of Gaza.  So, we’re very focused on this.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Okay, thank you so much.  Admiral, can you comment on what happened
in the Red Sea this morning?  Two Maersk vessels had to turn back after
explosions happened.  So, were these explosions due to strikes by the
Houthis?  And if so, does it mean that the campaign against the Houthis
still is not working?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  What I can tell you and what I do know what happened today
it was that there were three Houthi missiles fired at two merchant
vessels and — in the Southern Red Sea.  One missile missed by something
like 200 kilometers.  The other two were shot down by a U.S. Navy
destroyer.  
  
That — that’s — that’s what I know.  It’s — obviously, underscores that
the Houthis still intend to conduct these attacks, which means we’re
obviously still going to have to do what we have to — have to do to
protect that shipping.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Weijia.  
  
Q    Thank you.  Following on the humanitarian crisis.  President Biden
recently said that there were no sticking points when it came to the
border deal, which, of course, impacts the supplemental.  But there does
appear to be disagreement over an aid package for Palestinian
civilians.  So, would the President support any measure that did not
include aid for Palestinian civilians?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I won’t negotiate here from — from the podium.  That
wouldn’t be appropriate.   
  
We are, we believe, making good progress here on the Senate side in a
bipartisan way to try to get this supplemental funding passed and in
place.  We understand that that certainly includes lots of different
moving pieces, but it would be irresponsible for me to go into much
detail here.   
  
Q    Thanks.  
  
Q    Thank you.  Admiral, I want to ask on behalf of my colleagues in
Argentina: There are reports in local media down there that they’re
getting ready to finalize the purchase of the F-16s that was approved in
the U.S. last year.  I’m wondering what your read is on that and what
you can say about the context of potentially Argentina moving closer to
Washington, maybe further from Beijing?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I don’t have anything on the F-16s.  Let me take that
question and get back to you rather than try to pontificate from here. 
But obviously, we — we value the biparti- — the bilateral relationship
with Argentina and certainly want to do what we can to improve it, grow
it, deepen it.  But let me get back to you on the F-16s.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Last question.  (Inaudible.)  
  
Q    Thank you.  Two questions.  On Iran proxies, any confirmed reports
that Iran has provided Mohajer-6 combat drone to the Sudanese army?   
  
And secondly, why is there a double standard when it comes to that
administration dealing with the Iranian proxies in the region?  On one
hand, you (inaudible) Israel annihilating Hamas, but only (inaudible)
degrading Houthis and the Iranian-backed groups in Iraq.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I’m not sure I understand the premise of the second
question.  I’m not — there’s — there’s no double standard here.  We’re
acting in self-defense.  In both cases, strikes against the Iran-backed
groups in Iraq yesterday were designed to prevent them from continuing
to attack our troops — self-defense.   
  
And the same thing goes for the attacks against the — the Houthis.  And
whether it’s ashore or knocking their stuff out of the sky when it’s on
the way to these ships like we did this morning, it’s about
self-defense.  There’s no double standard here.   
  
And I didn’t understand your first question.  What was a —  
  
Q    Can you confirm reports that Iran has provided Mohajer-6 combat
drone to the Sudanese army?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  To the Sudanese.  I don’t — I have not seen that report. 
I’ll take the question and get back to you.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thanks so much, Admiral.  Thank you so much.   
  
All right.  Chris.   
  
Q    I just wanted to recap one thing.  You said there was an Africa
travel update.  I’m just sort of puzzled that there’s nothing more on
the President — you know, I just thought —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh.  
  
Q    — that was going to be — we were all waiting for that at the end of
that — that (inaudible).  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I know.  Well, he did talk about Africa travel, but
not as it relates to the President.  But there are, as you heard from
the Admiral, Cabinet Secretaries, obviously, being — being really active
with their travel, going to the continent, and having really important
conversations —  
  
Q    Is it still the President’s commitment to go to the continent?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — look, it is the President’s commitment to go to
the continent.  As it relates to a timeline, a date, I don’t have that
to share with you at this time.  But we wanted to lift up the Cabinet
Secretaries, as we have also said that we would see an influx of Cabinet
Secretaries traveling to the continent, which is what you’re seeing.  
  
And the President is — very much wants to — wants to go to — to the — to
the continent, obviously.   
  
One of the reasons why we lifted up in the topper today is because the
President wanted to show his commitment to the continent of Africa.  
  
Q    And a personnel question.  Mike Donilon and Jen O’Malley Dillon —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  A personal — oh, personnel.   
  
Q    Personnel.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m like, “A personal question?”  (Laughter.)   
  
Q    Personnel question.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I was like, “Why now?  Why here?”  (Laughter.)  
  
Q    Mike Donilon and Jen O’Malley Dillon are leaving the White House
for the campaign.  When are — when is their last day here at the White
House (inaudible) —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I just want to —  
  
Q    — stay for the State of the Union?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I appreciate the question.  So, a couple of
things.  You guys all saw the President’s statement yesterday, last
night, announcing that Mike Donilon and Jen O’Malley Dillon will leave
the White House in the upcoming weeks to join the reelection
campaign.   
  
Like the President said, they have served with dedication and purpose as
we have delivered on a historic recovery.  And he is thankful to Mike
and Jen both for their service in the White House these past three
years.   
  
Both are trusted advisors to the President, as you all know, who have
deep experience and played important roles in the historic successes he
has delivered for the American people, ranging from building an economy
that works from the bottom up, middle out, not the top down; standing up
for our basic freedoms as Americans; or protecting our democracy from
unprecedented threats.  
  
And on a personal note — now, I can — I will say this personally, I’ve
known Jen O’Malley Dillon for some time.  And she is — has been an
excellent colleague.  Mike — Mike — Mike Donilon has become a friend
over the last three years.  And we are very sad to lose them.  
  
As it relates to a timeline, it’s going to be in the upcoming weeks.  I
just don’t have a timeline to share at this time.  
  
Go ahead, Kelly O.  
  
Q    In terms of the event yesterday, where the President obviously
indicated that the views of the public are passionate and there are
expected protests, is he now braced for protests at every event where
the public is expected?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, let me just say more broadly, obviously, the
President respects people’s right to — to speak out peacefully, as you
just stated in your — in your — in your question to me, Kelly O.   
  
As it relates to events and what to expect, that is something for Secret
Service.  Obviously, they deal with that.  That’s not something that I
can speak to.  They look out for that.  They deal with that, so I don’t
want to get ahead of the Secret Service process.   
  
But, look, you know, again, the President believes that Americans have
the right to speak out, make their voice heard as long as they do it
peacefully.  And so, we res- — we respect that.   
  
Q    And, of course, the event was about, in large part, a strong view
that the administration and the campaign have that reproductive rights,
abortion rights are an essential in this campaign season.  Do you get a
sense that the President is going to find ways to do more to personalize
this story of how women are affected by it?  He cited ways where women
are not getting medical care.  He talked about how influential it is. 
Is there some other outreach that he can do?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, appreciate the question.  Look, I think what you
heard — obviously, yesterday was a campaign event that the President did
with the other principals in the administration — and you heard him
speak passionately and fiery, I will say, about the issue.   
  
On Monday, as you all know, this week would have been the 51st — if Roe
was still a constitutional law, it would have been the 51st anniversary
of Roe v. Wade.  And we talked about — you’ve heard from the President;
you’ve heard from the Vice President — talk about how devastating the
overturning of Roe have been to women across the country.   
  
And just the amount of — of legislation that is restricting that right,
restricting that reprod- — reproductive right that we’ve seen in
states.   
  
What I will say as it relates to outreach — there is something that I
will share with all of you.  On Sunday, the President and the First Lady
spoke to Kate Cox, who was forced to go to court to seek permission for
the care she needed for a non-viable pregnancy that threatened her life
— that threatened her life.  They thanked her for her courage in sharing
her story and speaking out about the impact of the extreme abortion ban
in Texas.  The First Lady invited Kate to join her as a guest at the
State of the Union, and Kate accepted.  
  
So, those are ways that you’re going to hear the President lift up those
very personal stories.  You saw that yesterday with Amanda who came and
who introduced the President.  And it is important.  It is important for
Americans to hear the <s>horroring</s> \[harrowing\] stories that we’re
hearing from women of their experiences across the country.   
  
And one last thing I’ll say — and it looks like you have a follow-up,
and I apologize — is that, you know, this is a President and
administration — the Biden-Harris administration is standing with the
majority of Americans on this — with majority of Americans.  And
Republican elected officials are just not.  
  
Q    I had a follow-up (inaudible) there.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I know you had a follow-up.  (Laughs.)  
  
Q    Was that a private call or was that something that you recorded? 
Sometimes we’ve seen those —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — as released later.  What’s the status of that?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, it definitely was a private car- — co- — call —
pardon me, a private call.  I — I cannot speak if it was recorded.  But
obviously, it was a private call that they thought it was really
important — the President and the First Lady — to reach out to Kate.   
  
As you all know and all have reported — and she’s been on some of the
networks here — her story is incredibly powerful, devastating.  And —
and it speaks to the moment that we are in now when we talk about women
having the right to make these deeply personal decisions about their
healthcare that was taken away by the Supreme Court.   
  
And we have Republican officials that continue to talk about — and in
Congress introduce, you know, national bans.  And so, that is not where
this President and this Vice President stands.  And you’re going to
continue to hear us to speak to that.  
  
Go ahead, Kevin.  
  
Q    When you talked to the President afterwards, is he frustrated that
he wasn’t able to sort of deliver this speech as he intended?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look — look, the President — from my view —
and I think some of your colleagues have written about this — it was a
fiery speech.  It was a deeply, deeply impactful speech.  You heard how
the crowd reacted to the speech.  It was a speech that, I think, landed
in a way that talked about how this President and his entire
administration is going to fight for women.  And that is also
important.  
  
Look, you know, I said this at the top when I was asked this question,
he respects all Americans — you know, their right to speak out as long —
and make sure that their — their voices are heard, just as long — they
do it in a peaceful way.  That’s what we want to see.   
  
And he’s made clear about where he stands on — you know, on the — on the
issue that we’ve been talking about, obviously, today with Israel being
able to defend themselves, understanding the painful time that a number
of communities — and we’re certainly working to be supportive of
resource — and resource — and respect different points of views.   
  
But he’s been very, very clear.  And, look, we’re going to — you know,
we’re going to continue to — to be clear about that — where we stand —
and also, obviously, respect the peaceful protest that, you know,
Americans are allowed to do.  
  
Q    Was there any effort after the speech yesterday to try and engage
some of these protesters, to have President Biden talk with them
directly?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I can’t speak to any — any opportunities to engage
with the protesters.  But, obviously, they made — they made their voices
very loud and clear.  And I’ll just leave it there.   
  
Q    When is the last time he talked to folks who are advocating for a
ceasefire?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, look, I think he hears from Americans all the
time.  I think he — he —  
  
Q    But in terms of, like, a direct conversation.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, he — I can’t speak to a direct
conversation that he’s had, but he hears from Americans all the time
about their different views that they have.  And so, that is — you know,
that is the — something that the President is very aware of.   
  
So, don’t have any direct conversations to speak to, but obviously the
President has — is aware of what’s happening and how people feel.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    So, the UAW — President Biden will speak to the UAW, today.  The
UAW has also called for a ceasefire.  Does that complicate the — you
know, any effort to sort of get — you know, does it complicate the
relationship between President Biden and the union if these large unions
— it’s not just the UAW, but others who are also calling for a
ceasefire?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’ll say this.  The President — as you know, in the
fall, the President joined UAW workers on — on the picket line.  And he
was the first president to ever do that.  Because this is a President
who says it all the time: He believe the union built the middle class. 
He believes that the unions are — should be able to, you know, get the
benefits that they deserve for working so hard — right? — for working
and — you know, on behalf of the American people, obviously.  
  
But, look — and he supported them for their historic fight to get a
historic contract.  So, he has — he believes he has and we believe he
has a very good relationship with unions, not just the UAW.   
  
And, look — and — and not just that.  He fought very proudly to — and —
and won the type of major investment needed to ensure that we have EV
future — EV future made in America, right?  When we talk about
manufacturing, when we talk about bringing manu- — manufacturing back to
America, and that is something that he has been very proud about.   
  
And so, he’s been a union guy for a very long time.  He continual — we
will continue to do that.  He’s going to go and speak to UAW. 
Obviously, he has a good relationship with UAW if he’s going to go do
that.   
  
And he proudly, proudly stood next to union workers, as I stated, in the
fall to — on the picket line — something that no other president has
done.   
  
Go ahead.  And then I’ll come to the back.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  The Boeing CEO is being scrutinized on Capitol
Hill today.  What has been the President’s reaction to the ongoing
safety concerns?  And is there any message from the White House to
reassure American travelers?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, look, as — as I’ve stated, and I’ve stated this
before, FAA, their — one of their number one priorities is to make sure
that Americans feel safe flying, and — and certainly they’ve take
actions to — to show their commitment to make sure that, you know,
flights are — are safe and they feel safe doing that.   
  
I don’t have any specifics.  Obviously, as you just mentioned, the
executives are — are on the Hill.  And that is something FAA and — is
continuing to look into exactly what’s going on there.   
  
Just don’t have anything more to share.  I’m going to not get ahead of —
of what they’re looking into.  
  
Q    And just going back to the earlier question on the UAW.  I know you
can’t talk about the campaign.  But, you know, the President has called
himself the most pro-union president.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    We haven’t seen an endorsement yet.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    Could you just talk a bit about what the President’s message is
going to be and your views on whether or not he’s going to clinch that
endorsement soon.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, and not just the President has called himself the
p- — the most pro-union president; other unions have called him the most
pro-union president.  So, I just want to make that clear.  
  
I cannot speak to endorsements from here.  That is something that the
campaign would have to speak to.   
  
Again, the President was very proud to join — join union members at the
picket line early this fall.  He has fought for union members throughout
— not just the last three years, but throughout his career.  And that’s
something that he’s going to continue to do.   
  
I’m just not going to speak to any — any endorsements from here.  
  
Go ahead, Jon.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  Can you give an overview about the President’s
trip that he’s taking tomorrow to Wisconsin?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, as you all know, he’s going to go to Superior,
Wisconsin.  I’m not going to get ahead.  We’ll have more to share about
that tomorrow or if not later in the day.  
  
Look — and I think I said a little bit about this earlier this week when
I announced the trip — he’s going to continue to talk about investing in
America; what he’s doing to make — make Americans’ lives a little bit
more easier — right? — a little — giving them a little bit more
breathing room; talk about Bidenomics.   
  
And one thing that I will say — and I don’t want to get ahead of it — I
think you saw a tweet from a congressman from Minnesota 8, who — who
touted the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, something that this
congressman — Congressman Stauber — who did not vote for it.  And it —
what’s interesting is it was a bipartisan piece of legislation.   
  
Obviously, we were thankful to Republicans who — who did work with the
President to — to put forth this Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and voted
for it and pushed for it.  But there are some Republicans who didn’t,
and they see the benefits of this particular law and now are touting it,
but didn’t vote for it — did not vote for it at all.   
  
So, the President is going to go to Superior, Wisconsin.  He’ll have a —
he’ll have more to say.  I’m not going to get ahead of him.  
  
Q    Do you suppose the President will call out that congressman, in
particular —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We’ll see.  
  
Q    — while he’s on the ground there?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We’ll see.  I mean, I called him out.  And we called
him out on — on “X” — now, I think it’s called.  (Laughter.)  So, you
know, we’ll continue — we’ll continue to be very clear about that.   
  
Go ahead, April.  
  
Q    Karine, what do you have to say about the confirmation — Senate
confirmation this afternoon of the 34th and 35th Black women judges in
this administration?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What — what to say about that, specifically —  
  
Q    Yeah.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — the confirmation?   
  
Look, this is a president who has been very clear and has stuck to his
commitment: When he said that he wanted to make sure he had an
administration that looked like America, including, obviously, a
judicial system that looked like America.  And he’s been very proud.  He
has been very proud of the women that he’s been able — the women of
color, Black women that he’s been able to put forward to get confirmed
for some of these judicial appoint- — appointments.  
  
And so, look, you see that in his administration.  You see that in his
appointments.  He wants to make sure that we represent what this country
looks like.  And he’s been very proud of that.  
  
Q    In the long term —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — what does this administration believe that this will do to
reshape the court system in this nation —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I think —  
  
Q    — with these appointments?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I think it’s important that we — that we have this
type of representation.  And you hear us say this many — many times:
representation matters.  And I think that is important that we make sure
we have, obviously, not just representation, but the women and the — and
the — the men and women that he has been able to appoint to these
position have been incredibly ex- — experienced.  They’ve been
impressive with their own record.  They are more than qualified to have
these appointments.  And I think that’s important too.  
  
Q    But I’m drilling down on the Black women, at a time when people are
walking away from DEI.  And this is historic.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  It is historic.  We agree with you, April.   
  
Q    We’ve never seen it before.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  It is historic and important.  It is historic and
important.  And this is a —  
  
Q    But they —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Let’s not forget, this is a commitment that the
President said that he — he would move forward with — right? — making
sure we have representation, making sure we have diversity, making sure
we have talented, experienced people in these roles.  And that’s what
he’s doing.  That’s what he’s doing.  
  
Go ahead, Weijia.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  I have more questions about Boeing.  Has the
White House been in touch with Boeing?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Any, like, personal, pri- — like, conversations with
—  
  
Q    Correct.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — with executives of Boeing?  
  
Q    Since the loose-bolt issues arose.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have any — I don’t have any calls or meetings
to read out.   
  
Q    Okay.  So, this isn’t the first time the FAA and Boeing have been
under scrutiny.  You know, the 737 Max was grounded just a few years
ago.  And you just said that their priority is to make sure people are
safe.  So, did they fail here?  I mean, how could we be in this position
again?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, we always — I’m going to start off and say the
same thing that I said.  Their priority is to make sure that — that
Americans feel safe and that they are safe, and they’re going to
continue to work toward that goal.   
  
And look, certainly, everything is being looked into.  There’s a — as
you — as was stated by your colleague, there is a hearing happening in
the — on the Hill.  And we’re always going to look into what we can do —
and FAA is going to do this — to make sure that we continue to — that we
do everything possible to make sure that they are safe, that people feel
—  
  
Q    But what’s your message to American flyers who might be thinking:
“Well, we can’t trust Boeing.  We can’t trust the FAA to do its
oversight part.  What are we supposed to do?”  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I think — I think what — what the President has said
and will continue to say is that that’s the FAA’s top priority.  Their
top priority is — is certainly to make sure that Americans feel safe. 
That’s why they launched an investigation and it is — is increasing,
obviously, their oversight of Boeing.  
  
And — look, and we’ve talked about how the Boeing Max 9 aircraft will
remain grounded, right?  That’s what they’re going to do — that’s one
way that Americans could feel that FAA has taken action — until FAA is
satisfied — they are satisfied that they are safe to return to
service.   
  
And so, look, that is — that is a commitment that Americans could be
sure of.  That is a top priority of FAA’s.  We want to make sure that we
look into it and figure out exactly what happened, and they’re going to
get to the bottom of it.  
  
Q    Thanks.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  Just wanted to get an updated read on inflation
impacts of the Red Sea attacks.  I wonder if the White House is seeing
anything in the data that (inaudible) concern?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, we’ve been asked about this a couple of times.  I
think the Admiral may have been asked about this yesterday as well.   
  
Look, we’re — these are things that we’re obviously going to continue to
monitor.  We have not seen any — any impacts.  
  
Our national security team and obviously our economic team are going to
continue to keep a close eye on this, on the evolving situation in the
Red Sea.  The Department of Transportation and the Navy are in close
communication with oc- — ocean shippers and insurers industry and other
stakeholders.  And we’re taking steps to ensure shipping in the Red Sea
is an un- — unobstructed.   
  
So, that is something that we’re certainly going to continue to monitor
and keep an eye on.  
  
Okay, go ahead.  
  
Q    In the wake of recent job cuts at outlets like the Los Angeles
Times, does the administration support legislation — like that moving
forward in California — that would require social media platforms to pay
news outlets for their content?  And is the — the administration
concerned about the layoffs at the L.A. Times, Time, and — and other
outlets?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, we are always — we are always going to support
the freedom of the — of speech, obviously, and support — and we believe
journalists have a really difficult job — right? — to make sure that
they — you know, making sure that they are able to — to report on — on
the facts.  And so, certainly, we’re always going to support that.   
  
And we’ve been very clear in not engaging with the Los Angeles Times
while they’re going through — while they’re going through this process. 
I know they — they went on — went on strike.  So, we’re — we’re very
respectful of — of that as well.  
  
As it relates to the legislation, I haven’t seen the legislation.  I
have not spoken to the team here, so I don’t want to get ahead of
that.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  This week, Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer
called for a crackdown on Zyn nicotine pouches, saying that companies
seem to set their sights on young kids, teenagers, and even lower and
use social media to hook them.  Does the administration believe there
should be a crackdown on Zyn?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  That’s something for FDA to speak to.  I can’t speak
to that from here.  I’ve not seen that report, so I would refer to the
FDA specifically.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you.  There are about 800 gotaways at the border every day,
96,000 since October 1st.  Does President Biden want to locate these
folks who have disappeared into this country to parts unknown?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, here’s what I will say is that the President — one
of the reasons that the President is having these negotiation procedures
or process with the Senate — with both Republicans and Democrats — as
I’ve said many times before, is because we want to deal with what’s
going on at the border.  He is taking this very seriously.  He’s — he
wants to make sure that we come up with a bipartisan agreement.  And we
are very appreciative for that.   
  
But there’s also the diplomatic aspect of it, of making sure that we’re
having conversations with Mexico, and we have had — and we’ve had
productive conversations with them.   
  
And DHS is maximizing — they are maximizing its enforcement efforts. 
And since May 12th — and you’ve heard me say this as well — DHS has been
able to return more than 482,000 individuals who did not have the legal
basis to be here.  
  
So, we’re doing what we can — right? — at the border.  DHS is doing —
maximizing their process, doing what they can at the border.   
  
But we need help, right?  We need Congress to actually act and do their
part as well.  And we’re having those negotiations and we’re having
those processes.   
  
I cannot speak to the 800 — the 8,000 number you just provided to me. 
What I can speak to as what we’re trying to do on the policy side and
the funding side to make sure that we — the Border Patrol, the law
enforcement on the ground have what they need.  
  
Q    Different topic.  Is election denying a joke now?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What do you mean?  You have to say more than just make
a random statement (inaudible).  (Laughter.)  
  
Q    Why did the President say, “Hello, Virginia!  And the real
governor, Terry McAuliffe”?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  He was making a joke about Terry M- — he was making a
joke —   
  
Q    What’s the joke?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  He was — I mean, if you play it back, it’s clearly
that the President was making a joke.   
  
Q    What’s the joke?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  He was making a joke about McAuliffe’s previous term
as governor.  
  
Q    How are you guys going to convince people, though, that this idea
of denying election results is very bad if President Biden is going out
—  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  How is he —  
  
Q    — and making jokes about this?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay, he did not deny — he did not deny it.  He
congratulated Governor Youngkin.  Matter of fact, when he won his
election, he did it out of the gate — out of the gate.  Really, truly. 
He — he congratulated the governor.  And not only that, we’ve had
opportunities to work closely with the governor over the past couple of
years.   
  
And, you know, this is a president that works across the aisle.  We’ve
seen that many times.  And he was making a joke.  
  
Go ahead, Toluse.  
  
Q    Do you have an update on the border negotiations?  Has the
President made any calls or done anything over the past couple of days
to move those negotiations along?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, the update that I can give you is that our team
has been in regular contact daily with — with the negotiators on the
Hill doing — obviously, as I’ve mentioned many times, both Republicans
and Democrats.  We feel like it’s been in good faith.  We feel like it’s
— it’s been — it’s — we are grateful that these conversations have been
happening for the past couple of months.  And we certainly want them to
continue.   
  
As — as it relates to the President, the President has — tends to have
conversations with members of Congress because of his long- — long-term
relationships with many of them.  Don’t have anything to read out.  But
I can say that our — our — our team here has been in regular contact —
daily contact with negotiators.  
  
Q    There was reportedly a pretty raucous lunch in the GOP Senate
conference yesterday.  A little bit of debate over whether or not
Republicans should have multiple days, potentially up to three weeks, to
review this, as opposed to a deal being put on the floor and senators
being forced to vote on it very quickly.   
  
Does the President, who was in the Senate for a very long time, have
thoughts on whether or not Republican senators and Democratic senators
should have time to review what the deal is?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  That is something — as it — as it relates to the
process and how they’re moving forward, you know, the process and the
technical and the procedures and all of the things that is related to
passing legislation or agreeing on a piece of legislation, that’s
something for — for the leadership to speak to.  I can’t speak to it
from here.   
  
AIDE:  We’ve got to wrap to gather.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  We have to gather.  Let’s see.  Go ahead,
sir.   
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  Kirby mentioned those ongoing talks with Mexico
about immigration.  Have — has that dialogue and, like, the handshake
deal with China from last year yielded — yielded any substantive results
regarding fentanyl flow —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, yeah, absolutely.   
  
Q    — in the country yet?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And I believe we made some announcements.   
  
Q    Can we get some numbers?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  Happy to — happy to get back to you with some
announcement that we made after the meeting that the President had with
President Xi on the — on what we think was a productive conversation on
fentanyl specifically.  
  
Look, the President has been very clear.  When it comes to fentanyl, he
wants to make sure we get that out of our communities across the country
and has been very committed in having conversation with Mexico and
having conversation with China.   
  
We’ll — happy to — to give you a — more update on that.   
  
We have to go because you all have to gather because the President is
heading to UAW.  Thanks, everybody.   
  
12:37 P.M. EST
