---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-07-26'
modified_time: 2021-07-26 15:11:30-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/07/26/a-proclamation-on-made-in-america-week-2021/
published_time: 2021-07-26 15:11:29-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on Made In America Week,\_2021"
---
 
Made in America Week recognizes a basic idea:  when we spend taxpayer
dollars, we should buy American products and support American jobs.  The
Congress passed the Buy American Act almost 90 years ago, but we have
never fully lived up to this principle. 

During Made in America Week, we recognize that just as American
manufacturing was the Arsenal of Democracy in World War II, American
products and services must be part of the engine of American prosperity
today.  We also reject the defeatist view that the forces of automation
and globalization mean we cannot have good-paying union jobs here in
America.

My Administration is making “Buy American” a policy, not just a
promise.  We are closing loopholes and strengthening standards to ensure
that the future is made in all of America –by all of America’s workers —
in every region, of every background, in services, manufacturing, and
agriculture.

That is why one of my first acts as President was to sign an Executive
Order to tighten existing Buy American policies, and to lay out
additional commitments to prevent big corporations and special interests
from using loopholes to redirect American taxpayer dollars to foreign
companies.  And, I have named our Nation’s first-ever Made in America
Director at our Office of Management and Budget.

When we Buy American, we will buy from all of America.  We will include
communities that have historically been left out of Government
procurement, Black, Brown, and Native American small businesses and
entrepreneurs in every region of the country.  We will use a federally
funded, national network called the Manufacturing Extension Partnership
to help government agencies connect with new domestic suppliers across
the country.

The COVID-19 pandemic demonstrated our need for greater manufacturing
capacity in areas critical to public health, information and
communications technology, and national defense.

To build our economy back better, we must have an industrial strategy
based on public investment in new technologies, including the domestic
production of clean energy goods, critical medical supplies, and the
innovative industries of the future.  We must prioritize the creation of
high skill, high value jobs that empower workers and pay
family-supporting wages.  We must reject short-termism, offshoring, and
a race to the bottom.  That is why my Administration is committed to
using Made in America policies that give America’s workers and companies
the tools they need to compete and lead globally for decades to come.

We will send clear market signals so that entrepreneurs make the
investments our Nation needs.  We will ensure that Made in America
preferences are applied consistently and transparently.  We will gather
data to reveal gaps in our industrial base, and work to close those gaps
and boost our economy’s productive capacity.  And we will ensure that
diversity, equity, inclusion, and accessibility are at the center of all
of these efforts. 

My Administration will maximize the Federal Government’s use of goods,
products, and materials produced in, and services offered in, the United
States.  These purchases will maximize our efforts to empower workers
and strengthen unionization, tackle the climate crisis, and build and
rebuild critical supply chains so that we will never again have to rely
on imports from unreliable trading partners to combat threats to our
public health.

We will also reduce the need for waivers from Made in America rules by
creating incentives for private investment in domestic supply chains in
critical industries. 

As we focus on “Made in America,” we are committed to strengthening
relationships with allies and trading partners.  Resilient supply chains
must have built in redundancies — a health crisis or natural disaster in
one location must never again threaten the global economy.  We must work
with our trading partners to promote equitable growth, protect workers’
rights, and advance environmental justice globally.

By using Made in America policies as one tool of many to rebuild our
industrial base and strengthen critical supply chains, we will help put
the American dream within reach for our Nation’s families today, and for
generations to come. 

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim July 26 through
July 30, 2021, as Made in America Week.  I call upon all Americans to
observe this week and to celebrate with appropriate programs,
ceremonies, and activities.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-sixth day of
July, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
