---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-07-26'
modified_time: 2021-07-26 12:56:07-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/07/26/a-proclamation-on-anniversary-of-the-americans-with-disabilities-act-2021/
published_time: 2021-07-26 12:56:06-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on Anniversary of the Americans with Disabilities Act,\_2021."
---
 
Thirty-one years ago, on July 26, 1990, our Nation moved closer to the
fulfillment of its foundational promise when we passed the Americans
with Disabilities Act (ADA).  This landmark law affirms and protects the
fundamental rights of people with disabilities — the right to equal
opportunity, economic self-sufficiency, independent living, and
equitable participation in every aspect of American life.  For more than
three decades, the ADA has made our communities, our economy, and our
country stronger and more vibrant.  It has helped to uphold the dignity
of the estimated 61 million Americans who live with a disability — in
short, it is a triumph of American civil rights.

I was enormously proud to co-sponsor the ADA, the passage of which was a
testament not only to fearless advocacy, but to bipartisan progress.  A
Democratic bill signed by a Republican President, the ADA was made
possible thanks in no small part to the passion and persistence of
Senators Tom Harkin and Ted Kennedy and Congressmen Major Owens and Tony
Coelho.  I will never forget the moment just after the ADA’s passage,
when Senator Harkin delivered a speech in American Sign Language
from the Senate floor — a tribute to his older brother, Frank, who was
deaf.  That moment was an emotional reminder for all of us of just how
personal and powerful the passage of the ADA would be for millions of
American families.

Despite the extraordinary progress we have made over the past 31 years,
the fight for equitable access and inclusion is far from over.  The
COVID-19 pandemic has compounded the longstanding inequities and biases
that exist for people with disabilities; persistent discrimination and
the inability to access services continues to threaten the health and
well-being of far too many Americans.  Throughout the pandemic, people
with disabilities have faced heightened risks — particularly those who
lack access to caregiver or support services, those who live in
community homes, and the disproportionate share of people with
disabilities employed in industries that suffered due to the pandemic. 
Children and students living with disabilities have also faced an
especially challenging year, forced to navigate and adapt to online
learning as the virus upended their usual school routines.

As we work to finish the job of defeating COVID-19, my Administration is
committed to building on the legacy of the ADA.  The American Rescue
Plan is providing funding to expand access to home- and community-based
services under Medicaid, which will allow more people with disabilities
to live safely and independently in their homes.  My Build Back Better
agenda would build on this by making significant investments in home-
and community-based services for people with disabilities and older
Americans.  It will also spur the creation of quality jobs with good
pay, good benefits, and the ability to organize and collectively bargain
for caregivers. 

My Administration is also committed to advancing the rights of people
with disabilities in the workplace to support economic
self-sufficiency.  I have proposed eliminating outdated provisions in
the Fair Labor Standards Act that allow employers to pay workers with
disabilities less than the minimum wage.  My proposal includes funding
this transition with $2 billion to expand access to competitive,
integrated employment opportunities for workers with disabilities.  In
addition, I am committed to making the Federal Government a model
employer — including for people with disabilities — to set the gold
standard for how best to support inclusion and provide appropriate
accommodations.  To that end, I recently signed an Executive Order to
advance diversity, equity, inclusion, and accessibility in the Federal
Workforce — a pledge to lead by example to promote economic stability
and good paying jobs for Americans with disabilities.

Before I became President, I promised that every policy my
Administration pursued — from rebuilding our middle class, to fighting
climate change, to achieving universal health coverage — would be
created with the full inclusion and dignity of Americans with
disabilities in mind.  I am proud to say that since my first day in
office, my Administration has delivered on that promise.  As we
celebrate the monumental legacy of the ADA, we recommit ourselves today
to upholding and strengthening its protections — and continuing to
advance equity, dignity, access, and inclusion together with the
disability community as we build our Nation back better.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim July 26, 2021, the
Anniversary of the Americans with Disabilities Act.  I encourage
Americans across our Nation to celebrate the 31st year of this civil
rights law and the many contributions of individuals with disabilities.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-sixth day of
July, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.         

  JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
