---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-07-16'
modified_time: 2021-07-16 09:39:59-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/07/16/a-proclamation-on-captive-nations-week-2021/
published_time: 2021-07-16 09:39:58-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on Captive Nations Week,\_2021"
---
 
From the founding of our Nation to today, through the crucibles of war
and the struggle of successive generations, America has strived to
uphold the ideals of freedom and democracy upon which our country was
built and expand the ability of people around the world to freely
exercise their rights.  As the world’s longest-standing democracy, we
carry a special responsibility to lead at home and abroad, not only by
the example of our power, but by the power of our example — to prove to
ourselves and to the world that democracy can deliver for all people. 
Though much has changed in the world since President Eisenhower issued
the first Captive Nations Proclamation in 1959, its call for liberty and
opportunity still ring true.  During Captive Nations Week, we recommit
ourselves to those principles which form the foundation of our Nation,
and to amplify the voices of courageous individuals around the world who
are striving to advance the principles of human rights, justice, and the
rule of law. 

Today, far too many people are subject to routine abuses of power, as
oppressive governments detain, harass, or commit acts of violence
against dissenting voices; disseminate disinformation and propaganda;
undermine democratic systems; and otherwise violate the public trust. 
These abuses are not new — but they remain as stern a threat to human
rights and freedom as they have ever been.

No nation or person of conscience can ignore the voices of those crying
out for liberty.  We hear Belarusians peacefully calling for democratic
elections, and the courageous people of Hong Kong demanding the autonomy
and liberty promised by Beijing under the Sino-British Joint Declaration
and Hong Kong’s Basic Law.  We hear millions of Uyghurs and other ethnic
and religious minorities in Xinjiang, China, who have been unjustly
interned and subject to surveillance and forced labor.  We hear the
determination of those rejecting military rule in Burma, resisting
dictatorship in Venezuela, taking to streets in Cuba to demand freedom
in the face of brutal state repression, and pressing for free and fair
elections in Nicaragua — as well as the Crimean Tatars, ethnic
Ukrainians, and other ethnic and religious minorities who suffer
repression for opposing Russia’s illegal occupation of Crimea.

The American creed, which defines our Nation, proclaims that all people
are created equal, and deserve to be treated equally, with dignity and
respect, throughout their lives.  We stand in solidarity with the brave
human rights activists and pro-democracy advocates around the world who
risk their lives for the rights of others.  We are committed to ensuring
that all those who are oppressed across the globe — including people
with disabilities, women and girls, members of the LGBTQI+ community,
indigenous populations, and racial and ethnic minorities — are heard,
respected, and protected.

During Captive Nations Week, we recommit ourselves to the timeless,
vital work of advancing freedom and justice for all.  

We do that by forging a more equitable and inclusive society, by solving
problems and helping to ease the burdens people face, and by fulfilling
our role as a global leader for human rights and fundamental freedoms of
expression, association, peaceful assembly, and religion or belief. 
Together with our allies and partners, we must continue to strengthen
democratic institutions, defend independent civil society and media
freedom, promote free and fair elections, protect human rights online,
insist on accountability for those who commit abuses and foster cultures
of corruption, and push back against authoritarianism around the world.

The Congress, by joint resolution approved July 17, 1959 (73 Stat. 212),
has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation
designating the third week of July of each year as “Captive Nations
Week.” 

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, do hereby proclaim July 18 through July 24, 2021, as Captive
Nations Week.  I call upon all Americans to reaffirm our commitment to
championing those around the world who strive for liberty and justice
for all.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this sixteenth day of
July, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.  

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
