---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-07-15'
modified_time: 2021-07-15 09:08:16-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/07/15/a-proclamation-on-national-atomic-veterans-day-2021/
published_time: 2021-07-15 09:08:15-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on National Atomic Veterans Day,\_2021"
---
 
On July 16, 1945, the United States detonated the world’s first nuclear
device in Alamogordo, New Mexico.  Better known by its code name,
“Trinity,” the successful test of the first atomic bomb brought forth a
new age of science that changed the lives of many of those who served in
our Armed Forces, and forever altered the nature and the risks of war. 
Just weeks later, the world witnessed the horrors of nuclear destruction
at Hiroshima and Nagasaki, which marked the end of World War II but
opened our eyes to the truth that a nuclear war must never be fought.

Many brave men and women have risked their lives in service to our
Nation, but few know the story of our “Atomic Veterans” — American
military service members who participated in nuclear tests between 1945
and 1962, served with United States military forces in or around
Hiroshima and Nagasaki through mid-1946, or were held as prisoners of
war in or near Hiroshima or Nagasaki.  These veterans served at testing
sites like the Bikini Atoll and witnessed the destructive power of
nuclear weapons firsthand.  On National Atomic Veterans Day, we
recognize and honor the contributions of America’s Atomic Veterans for
their sacrifice and dedication to our Nation’s security, and recommit to
supporting our Atomic Veterans and educating ourselves on the role these
patriots played in our national story.

Atomic Veterans served our Nation with distinction, but their service
came at a great cost.  Many developed health conditions due to radiation
exposure, yet because they were not able to discuss the nature of their
service, they were unable to seek medical care or disability
compensation from the Department of Veterans Affairs for their
illnesses.  Decades later in 1996, the United States Congress repealed
the Nuclear Radiation and Secrecy Agreements Act, allowing Atomic
Veterans to tell their stories and file for benefits.  By then,
thousands of Atomic Veterans had died without their families knowing the
true extent of their service.

Our Nation has one truly sacred obligation:  to properly prepare and
equip our troops when we send them into harm’s way, and to care for them
and their families when they return from service.  As Commander in
Chief, I am committed to fulfilling our obligation to the Atomic
Veterans and their families, and ensuring that all of our Nation’s
veterans have timely access to needed services, medical care, and
benefits.

On this National Atomic Veterans Day, our country remembers the service
and sacrifices of Atomic Veterans.  Their heroism and patriotism will
never be forgotten and we always honor their bravery and devotion to
duty.    

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim July 16, 2021, as
National Atomic Veterans Day.  I call upon all Americans to observe this
day with appropriate ceremonies and activities that honor our Nation’s
Atomic Veterans whose brave service and sacrifice played an important
role in the defense of our Nation. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this fifteenth day of
July, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
