---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-07-26'
modified_time: 2021-07-26 10:25:15-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/07/26/a-proclamation-on-national-korean-war-veterans-armistice-day-2021/
published_time: 2021-07-26 10:25:12-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on National Korean War Veterans Armistice Day,\_2021"
---
 
The United States and the Republic of Korea are allies with a long
history of shared sacrifice.  In a call to defend freedom and democracy
abroad, 1.8 million Americans joined the fight to protect our Korean
Peninsula allies from the communist regimes in North Korea and The
People’s Republic of China.  In 1953, after 3 years of violent combat
and millions of casualties, an armistice was signed by representatives
of the United States, The People’s Republic of China, and North Korea. 
The armistice made possible the exchange of prisoners of war as well as
an opportunity to negotiate a peaceful settlement.  Almost 70 years
later, that settlement still has not been reached, and the Korean
Peninsula remains divided along the 38th parallel.  Yet, the Republic of
Korea has grown into a thriving, vibrant country, and the enduring
relationship between our two nations has flourished through decades of
peace.  Today, we take this opportunity to honor, remember, and pay
tribute to the Korean War veterans who fought to defend those universal
values and freedoms that the people of South Korea enjoy today.

American service members, along with our United Nations counterparts,
fought through some of the most unforgiving terrain and weather
conditions on the Korean Peninsula.  Through searing summer heat, bitter
winter cold, and torrential rains, our forces fought with relentless
courage, resilience, and perseverance.  In the mountains, valleys,
and rice paddies, the battles fought and lives lost in Inchon, the
Chosin Reservoir, Heartbreak Ridge, and the Pusan Perimeter, we remember
their valor.  Earlier this year, I had the great privilege of awarding
the Medal of Honor to Colonel Ralph Puckett, Jr., USA (Ret.), a legend
in the Army Ranger community, for his extraordinary selflessness and
heroism during the Korean War in the Battle of Hill 205.  His story, and
those of all our veterans of the Korean War, remind every American the
high price of freedom. 

We shall never forget the service members who made the ultimate
sacrifice.  On the National Mall at the Korean War Memorial, a Wall of
Remembrance will be established to further honor and venerate the more
than 36,000 American lives lost during the war, along with more than
7,000 Korean Augmentation to the United States Army soldiers who were
killed in action.  As a grateful Nation, we owe it to the families of
the fallen to memorialize, commemorate, and pay tribute to the heroes
who have given their lives for our Nation — and to uphold and honor the
democratic values for which they fought. We must also always recognize
the patriotism and service of our veterans and their families and
caregivers, and uphold our sacred obligation to provide the support they
need when they come home.

Our commitment to protecting peace on the Korean Peninsula has endured
and grown in the ensuing decades.  We are immensely proud of our
historic friendship and the trust we share with the Republic of Korea. 
The service and sacrifices of both our nations have left an indelible
determination to sustain peace and promote regional stability.  Training
side-by-side with the Korean military, our Armed Forces abroad help keep
the watch while proudly upholding the legacy of those serving before
them. Our partnership remains crucial to maintaining peace and stability
today, and to expanding economic growth in a critical region of the
world.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim July 27, 2021, as
National Korean War Veterans Armistice Day.  I call upon all Americans
to observe this day with appropriate ceremonies and activities that
honor and give thanks to our distinguished Korean War Veterans.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-sixth day of
July, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.                

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
