---
date: '2023-07-09'
published_time: 2023-07-09 20:01:17-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2023/07/09/press-gaggle-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-national-security-advisor-jake-sullivan-en-route-london-united-kingdom/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Gaggle by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and National Security Advisor\
  \ Jake Sullivan En Route London, United\_Kingdom"
---
 
Aboard Air Force One  
En Route London, United Kingdom

3:21 P.M. EDT

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Hey, hey, hey!

Q Hey!

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: All right. So before we — before we start, I wanted to
wish Steve Holland a happy birthday.

Q Oh! Thank you!

Q Woohoo!

Q Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Happy birthday, my friend. We have something coming for
you shortly. I — I didn’t get the timing quite right, but we’re so happy
that you’re spending your birthday weekend with us. So, happy birthday.

Q Thank you very much. Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: All right. Okay, so as we embark on the President’s
trip to Europe — thank you all for coming — (laughs) — and hanging out
with us. First, we’ll stop in the United Kingdom, as you all know, where
the President will have his sixth meeting in six months with Prime
Minister Sunak as part of our close coordination with the United Kingdom
on a range of important issues.

After that, he will meet with King Charles at the Windsor Castle and
engage with leading philanthropist- — philanthropists and investors as
we seek to mobilize finances, support the deployment of clean energy,
and mitigate the impacts of the climate crisis in developing countries.

Tomorrow night, the President will travel to Vilnius, Lithuania, for the
74th NATO Summit.

On Wednesday, he will deliver a major speech highlighting how the United
States, alongside our allies and partners, is supporting Ukraine,
defending democratic values, and taking action to address global
challenges.

Finally, we will head to Helsinki, Finland, to participate in the
U.S.-Nordic Leaders’ Summit to advance our cooperation on shared
objectives.

Throughout this trip, the strength of our alliances and our
relationships will be on full display. Thanks in part of the President’s
leadership, NATO is stronger, more united, and more energized than ever
before.

And with that, as you can see to my right, National Security Advisor
Jake Sullivan is here to give us some more — some more tidbits on this
trip.

MR. SULLIVAN: Thank you, Karine. Happy birthday, Steve.

Q Thank you, Jake. Thank you.

MR. SULLIVAN: So we’re on our way, of course, to London, England. The
President will, tomorrow, have the chance to sit with King Charles and
also to participate with the King and with Secretary Kerry — Special
Envoy for Climate John Kerry — in an event with private sector leaders
that’s really focused on how we bring private capital off the sidelines
in service of our climate objectives: the deployment of clean energy,
the mitigation of carbon emissions, and help to developing countries in
adapting to the impacts of climate change.

So the President will have a chance to hear from them about the
obstacles and barriers to the mobilization of private finance and also
to encourage them to step up to their responsibilities, even as he talks
through what we’re doing in terms of public investment that can help
mobilize that private investment most effectively.

He’ll also have the opportunity to meet with Prime Minister Sunak at
Number 10. This actually will be his first time at Number 10 as
president. He, of course, has been to the UK twice before — once for the
G7 in Carbis Bay and once for the COP in Glasgow. And then, of course, a
third time he was here for the — the coronation — or, sorry, for the
funeral of Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth.

As Karine mentioned, this is the sixth time in six months that the
President and Prime Minister Sunak will be meeting. So I think you can
consider this more the continuation of a long-running conversation than
a, kind of, formal meeting.

They will have the chance to compare notes going into the Vilnius summit
to talk about the issues on the agenda in Vilnius, to talk about
progress in the war in Ukraine, and, of course, to talk about a range of
other issues from China to climate to technology to artificial
intelligence.

We will then head off to Vilnius for the summit. And we’ll have more to
say tomorrow night about some of the specifics of the two days of the
summit and the particular sessions in which the President will
participate.

But, broadly speaking, Ukraine will feature prominently and the work
that NATO Allies have done individually and collectively to support
Ukraine in the defense of its territory and sovereignt- — territorial
integrity and sovereignty.

Of course, there will be the opportunity to mark progress along the
pathway towards Ukraine’s membership aspirations in NATO, and Allies
will have the opportunity to discuss that directly with Ukraine in a
NATO-Ukraine Council format on the second day of the — of the summit.

In addition to that, there are issues core to the Alliance that will be
on the agenda: the question, of course, of Sweden’s membership; defense
investment pledges from all of the Alliance members; how we move forward
to ensure that every Ally is stepping up to make the necessary
contributions in terms of materiel and capability for the Alliance to be
able to effectively carry ou- — carry out its missions in the
Euro-Atlantic area. And then, discussions about how to make sure that
we’re continuing to effectively protect, defend, and deter on the
eastern flank and on every one of NATO’s borders will be an important
part of the conversation as well.

Finally, there’ll be a session with a broader set of partners, including
the Asia-Pacific Four, to talk about the ways in which the NATO Alliance
is working with others on common challenges, whether in cyberspace or
space, or setting norms in critical emerging areas like technology.

After the President is finished at the NATO Summit — oh, and I should
also mention: On the sidelines, he’ll have the chance to engage with a
lot of different leaders informally and, potentially, also the chance to
have a few bilats, though I don’t have anything to announce right now.
We’ll do that tomorrow.

(A birthday cupcake is brought out.)

Oh, I think we’ve got the cupcake.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Oooh! Steve!

Q Thank you. Thank you so much.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Happy Birthday, Steve!

Q Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Woohoo! Thank you so much. Thank you. Appreciate that.
Thank you.

MR. SULLIVAN: Steve, you don’t want to eat that? (Laughs.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: You’re not going to share that cupcake with the rest
us, Steve?

Q We’ll pass it around. (Laughter.) Sorry to interrupt, Jake.

MR. SULLIVAN: In regard to the upcoming NATO Summit, while we were on
this flight, President Biden had the opportunity to speak with President
Erdoğan of Turkey.

Q Oh!

MR. SULLIVAN: It was a 45-minute, hour-long conversation. They talked
about a number of issues relative to the upcoming summit, including the
war in Ukraine and Turkey’s really robust and stalwart support,
including quite concrete military support, for Ukraine’s defensive
needs.

They also talked about Sweden’s membership, and they agreed that the two
of them would have the opportunity to sit down together in Vilnius. So
we’ll have more to say on what will happen with respect to that meeting
once we’ve worked out scheduling and timing and the like.

Finally, after the President is done in Vilnius, he’ll go on to
Helsinki, as Karine said, for a meeting with the Nordic leaders. And
this will really be an opportunity to look at the larger strategic
picture, well beyond just the Nordic area or even the Euro-Atlantic
area, because these countries are players on significant economic,
technological, and security issues globally, and some of our best and
most stalwart partners.

The President is really looking forward to having that opportunity with
all of the Nordic leaders and a separate opportunity to sit down with
the President of Finland. He’ll also do a press availability with the
President of Finland while he is there and have the opportunity to take
all of your wonderful questions.

So that’s where we’re headed to. That’s what’s going on. And I’d be
happy to take your questions.

Q Jake, the President said in the interview with CNN that Ukraine is not
ready for NATO membership. Given that Ukraine is currently fighting
Russia, you know, holding back Russian aggression — what NATO was
designed to do — what specifically makes them not ready? What reforms is
the United States looking for to make Ukraine ready? And will there be a
roadmap laid out to make Ukraine ready at the summit?

MR. SULLIVAN: So there actually have been reforms identified in
Ukraine’s Annual National Programme, which is the instrument that it
uses in consultation with the NATO Alliance for how to move forward a
democratic, security sector, and economic reforms to ensure that its
democracy and its security sector are truly robust, resilient, and are
able to tackle issues like corruption effectively.

What the Allies will have the opportunity to do in Vilnius is talk about
where we go from here with respect to those reforms that are required.
And it’s not just the Alliance asserting that; Ukraine has acknowledged
the need to continue to move along the reform pathway as it pursues its
efforts to seek membership.

So as we speak right now, there’s work being done on the NATO
communiqué, on the language relative to Ukraine’s desire to seek
membership in NATO. I think we will see the Allies come to consensus
around that as we head into Vilnius. And it will, among other things,
talk about a process for continuing to work through those reforms.

Q Can you elaborate on what the Israel-style security assurances the
President mentioned is? And where does that money come from? Obviously,
you have to go back to Congress. What does this look like?

MR. SULLIVAN: So, the concept is that the United States, alongside other
allies and partners within a multilateral framework, will negotiate
bilateral security commitments with Ukraine for the long term, meaning
that the United States would be prevare- — prepared to provide various
forms of military assistance, intelligence and information sharing,
cyber support and other forms of material support so that Ukraine can
both defend itself and deter future aggression.

I expect that at Vilnius you will see the President speaking to this
issue and consulting with President Zelenskyy on this issue, as well as
our G7 partners and other partners as well.

The next step, of course, would be to actually get into the details of
those discussions and negotiations with Ukraine to work out the terms of
that support, the duration of that support, and the specifics of that
support.

And, of course, at the end of the day, that will require working very
closely with the Congress, because to provide that support effectively
requires resources; those resources would have to come from Congress. So
they will be a critical and vital partner in that, and that would be
reflected in any statement the President makes with respect to this kind
of model going forward.

Q Jake, specifically on the F-si- — specifically on the conversation
between President Biden and President Erdoğan just now, can you
elaborate a little bit more how close are they to reaching an agreement
on Sweden? And was the issue of F-16s specifically discussed? If you can
characterize that.

MR. SULLIAN: The President and President Erdoğan did discuss the F-16s.
The President reiterated his longstanding and quite public commitment
and support for the provision of F-16s to Turkey. So, nothing has
changed in respect to the President’s position on that.

I can’t characterize how close, how far. All I can say is that we
believe that Sweden should be admitted to NATO as soon as possible. We
believe that there should be a pathway to do so, and we will now see how
that will unfold as we head into Vilnius. Whether it happens at Vilnius
or it happens in the period that follows, that remains to be determined.

Q Can I — just on F-16s. Before today, I guess, you guys had really
tried to distinguish that it was not a quid pro quo for the F-16s —
NATO. President Erdoğan had also said that they were unrelated.
President Biden, in a CNN interview, was perhaps a little more candid
about the two issues being linked. And I’m wondering if that’s because
something has changed or he was just being more candid than maybe folks
normally are.

And separately, I know, you’ve been having talks with folks on Capitol
Hill. Senator Menendez has been a leading opposition figure to this
deal. Were you able to convey to President Erdoğan — or was the
President able to convey to President Erdoğan that you now have the
congressional support to move forward on F-16s?

MR. SULLIVAN: I’m — I’m not going to characterize congressional support.
What I will say is that President Biden has been clear consistently that
he believes that for the Alliance and for the U.S.-Turkey bilateral
relationship, moving forward with this sale makes sense, is in our
interest. He also believes that Sweden becoming a member of NATO is very
much in our interest, and we should do both of these things.

And doing both of these things would give real impetus and momentum to
NATO and to the bilateral relationship between the U.S. and Turkey. So
that’s what he communicated to President Erdoğan today. That’s what he
believes. And that is the basis upon which we’re heading into Vilnius.

Q On Turkey, if I could. How do you interpret Erdoğan’s early release of
those Azovstal Ukrainian commanders who were — supposedly there was a
deal with Russia that they were going to be kept in Turkey until the end
of the war. They were, like, super politically important — you know,
symbolically, let’s say — those people. And he released them kind of
dramatically. They went home in that plane with Zelenskyy. Was — what —
was this him sending some kind of message to Putin that — you know?

MR. SULLIVAN: Honestly, I’m not going to characterize his motives for
doing it. I think it would be worth posing that question directly to
President Erdoğan.

As far as we’re concerned, seeing the Ukrainian public react to this, as
you said, quite emotional event of these soldiers returning home, you
know, was something the whole world could witness, we could witness. We
weren’t a part of this and aren’t in a position, really, to comment on
what Erdoğan was trying to accomplish by it.

Q Do you feel like Putin is losing a bit of a grip though on — on the
countries that were, you know, a little bit straddling the fence? Turkey
may be a little bit straddling; other countries even more so. Is he
losing his hold on those countries, would you say?

MR. SULLIVAN: Look, President Biden was quite candid in response to your
questions some days ago that he thinks President Putin has certainly
been — has taken a hit from this. And that hit also applies to the way
the rest of the world is looking at Russia and looking at President
Putin.

How much that will impact particular decisions by particular leaders,
what the implications of that are — it’s too soon to tell, particularly
since this story is still unfolding of exactly what happened with
Prigozhin’s rebellion and what other shoes are to drop inside Russia in
the period ahead.

But I would point this out about Turkey: Even before Prigozhin, Erdoğan
was prepared to do quite substantial and robust things in support of
Ukraine, including the provision of some sophisticated weaponry. So how
much this is related to Prigozhin versus how much this is just related
to his approach to the Ukraine conflict writ large, it’s hard for me to
say. But obviously, it’s something we will continue to watch carefully.

Q On that —

Q Hey, Jake. Jake —

Q — does the U.S. government have an update as to where (inaudible)
Prigozhin is?

MR. SULLIVAN: I do not have an update on that.

Q Jake, can we take you back to the cluster munitions decision? The
President told CNN he had original doubts about doing this. What did it
take to get him to say yes? Was it a Pentagon argument that convinced
him? What — what happened?

MR. SULLIVAN: One thing I’ve been a bit of a broken record on with
respect to our security assistance in this war, and I think all of you
have had a little bit of skepticism about it, is that the President has
made decisions about particular capabilities based on the circumstances
of the conflict as we find them. This conflict is dynamic. Things are
changing on the ground. Things are changing in terms of what we have the
capacity to provide. And as they change, our decisions about what we
provide change too.

So what does that mean in this case? What it means in this case is that
as we look out over the next several months, we see a limitation on the
coalition’s capacity to provide unitary rounds of 155 ammunition. Point
one.

Point two: We see our defense industrial base, due to investments made
months ago, ramping up that production, so that in the future we will
have sufficient supply of unitary round 155 to sustain Ukraine’s
defensive needs.

Between those two points, we need a bridge, and this was the moment for
that bridge. And that is what convinced the President, following a
unanimous recommendation from his national security team, a bridge of
these stocks of DPICMs — dual-purpose improvised cluster \[improved
conventional\] munitions. And being able to provide them means that the
United States and the coalition will be in a position to provide Ukraine
with the artillery it needs for its military purposes  
indefinitely.

Q And the writtens \[sic\] — the written assurances that Ukraine
provided, what did they say exactly? That they would limit their use?

MR. SULLIVAN: Well, you saw the Defense Minister of Ukraine, Reznikov,
come out publicly and actually elaborate what Ukraine has committed to
with respect to the cluster munitions.

You can see those points directly from him, so I won’t characterize them
specifically other than to point out a couple of examples. One being
they will not use them on Russian territory; they will only use them on
their own territory, where they have the highest incentive to limits —
limit impact to civilians, because it is Ukrainian citizens who would be
at risk. And second, that they will not use them in populated areas.

So those are a couple of the kinds of examples, but he laid out a fuller
list of them.

Secretary Blinken, while we were on this flight, also spoke with his
counterpart, Foreign Minister Kuleba, who also gave further assurances
to Secretary Blinken on these points.

Q Since the cluster munitions announcement on Friday, we’ve seen some of
the Allies reiterate their opposition to using these on the battlefield.
Is the President worried that this could make for some contentious talks
during the — during the NATO Summit?

MR. SULLIVAN: I think you can see for yourself tomorrow with Prime
Minister Sunak. The Prime Minister stated the UK’s legal position: that
they are a signatory to the Oslo Convention — the United States is not;
that being a signatory means discouraging the use of these weapons. He
fulfilled his legal obligation, but I think you will find Prime Minister
Sunak and President Biden on the same page strategically on Ukraine, in
lockstep on the bigger picture of what we’re trying to accomplish, and
as united as ever both in this conflict and writ large. And that will be
repeated, in my view, with all of the leaders of the Alliance.

I do not think you will see fracture, division, or disunity as the basis
for this dec- — as a result of this decision, even though many allies
and signatories to Oslo are in a position where they — they themselves
cannot say, “We are for cluster munitions.” But we have heard nothing
from people saying, “This casts doubt on our commitment,” “This casts
doubt on coalition unity,” or “This casts doubt on our belief that the
United States is playing a vital and positive role as leader of this
coalition in Ukraine.”

Q And if I could try one more on the Erdoğan call. I know you don’t want
to characterize where talks are as — when Sweden may get the approval or
not. But is the President more hopeful today than he was yesterday about
the possibility of getting an agreement by — by the end of the summit?

MR. SULLIVAN: So the President — I would not characterize his level of
hopefulness yesterday or today, because he — he’s not in the prediction
game on this; he’s in the “Let’s try to get it done. If we can get it
done by Vilnius, great.” That may or may not happen.

If it happens after Vilnius — we’re confident it will happen. We’re
confident Sweden will be brought into the Alliance. We don’t regard this
as something that is fundamentally in doubt. This is a matter of timing.
The sooner the better.

Q I have two questions on Iran, Jake. The first one: Is the
administration in talks with Iran, either directly or indirectly? And do
those talks involve prisoner swaps and the unfreezing of funds from
South Korean banks that belong to Tehran?

And the second one: What else is the administration prepared to do as
the JCPOA sunset — JCPOA clause on drones about to sunset in a few
months, other than, you know, call them out at the U.N. and release
declassified information about this expanded cooperation between Moscow
and Tehran on drones?

MR. SULLIVAN: Well, on the second question, we’ve taken a significant
number of steps beyond the ones you identified to impose costs on Iran
for its delivery of drones to kill Ukrainian civilians. We will continue
to do that.

That’s been true before the expiration of this JCPOA provision; it will
remain true after.

On your first question, we have had contacts with Iran indirectly. There
are no direct negotiations over the nuclear file or detainees. We have
had those indirect conversations on detainees because it’s our
obligation to try to bring U.S. citizens home. So we talk to any
government any way we can, like we do with the Russian government on the
unjustly detained Americans there, in an effort to find a solution to
get our people home.

Beyond that, I’m not going to comment on the specifics. And I don’t have
any announcements about us having arrived at a particular outcome at
this time.

Q Has the President spoken to Secretary Yellen about her trip to
Beijing? Any characterization from the West Wing as to how it went?

MR. SULLIVAN: He has not spoken with her yet because she’s basically,
you know, in the air — was wheels up and is in the air. But he’s looking
forward, while he’s on travel here in Europe, to get a full report from
her when she’s landed back on U.S. soil.

He’s gotten updates from her daily, both written and — and the team has
briefed us, and we briefed the President about it. So he’s been
following it, both the substance of it in each of the meetings, and
then, obviously, her public commentary as well. And he feels this was a
very important and substantive engagement on her part — important to
keep these channels of communication open, important to be clear about
U.S. intentions and priorities, and important to be clear about U.S.
concerns with certain Chinese practices, all of which Secretary Yellen
was.

Q Is it too early to go back to the “guardrails” word? Are they back on
— the guardrails? He used to love that word. We used to hear it all the
time. (Laughter.) We haven’t heard it in a while.

MR. SULLIVAN: I — I’m not exactly sure how to answer that question. I
would just say that our position is that we are in an intense
competition. We need to manage that competition responsibly. And that
requires intense diplomacy of the sort that you’ve seen from both
Secretary Blinken and Secretary Yellen. And we’re going to continue to
work that.

It also, in our view, requires sustained military-to-military contacts
of the sort that China has been resistant to. And we think that
responsible powers have an obligation to step up and engage in those —
those (inaudible).

Q Has there been any change on that — on the military-to-military
hotline, as it were?

MR. SULLIVAN: There’s been no change.

Q Hey, Jake. One on King Charles. It’s al- — it’s been almost — well,
exactly two years ago where the President met with Queen Elizabeth at
Windsor. How well does he know King Charles? And is he looking to
develop a friendship there?

MR. SULLIVAN: He knows him — not — he knows him fairly well, I would
say.

They had a phone conversation not long before the President went to
Northern Ireland and Ireland. I had the opportunity to hear that
conversation; it was incredibly warm.

The President has huge respect for the King’s commitment on the climate
issue in particular that he has been a clarion voice on this issue and,
more than that, has been an actor, someone who’s mobilized action and
effort. And so the President comes at this with enormous goodwill — this
relationship with enormous goodwill — and really does see this as an
opportunity to do two things: One, to deepen the personal bond, the
personal relationship. And two, to be able to harness their shared
interest in trying to drive climate progress and climate action. And
that’s what this event will be about.

Q Jake, following on that, do you have any of the businesses or
individuals who are participating in that meeting tomorrow, or any of
the commitments that are going to be announced that you can preview in
any way?

And then for the Sunak conversation later in the day, is it sort of like
in Northern Ireland, where they’re going to have tea and kind of check
in before other events? Or are you expecting, you know, some sort of
substantive announcement, you know, between the U.S. and UK out of that?

MR. SULLIVAN: I don’t know about tea. I don’t believe — we’re not going
to have a significant joint statement like we did just a few weeks ago
out of Washington.

I do expect it to be a quite substantive discussion, because there are a
lot of issues unfolding in real time that the President and Prime
Minister Sunak will want to check in on. And it will be — as I said
before, it’s like picking back up an ongoing conversation, like
returning to a text thread of sorts that they’d been having over the
last six months on all of the significant issues of consequence, like I
said, from Ukraine to AI.

On the participants and the substance, we will try to get that to you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah. Yeah.

MR. SULLIVAN: I’ll make sure that —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: We’ll get that. We’ll — we’ll get to — that to you all.

MR. SULLIVAN: — our team follows up on it.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q Given the political instability in the United Kingdom, I was just
curious if you could talk at all about how that’s affected the
relationship the U.S. has had with the UK; if at all, the relationship
with the Prime Minister. He’s facing elections coming up. You know, how
would you characterize that?

MR. SULLIVAN: I think the answer to that lies in the declaration that
the President and Prime Minister Sunak announced at the end of Prime
Minister Sunak’s visit to Washington. It’s detailed, substantive,
forward looking. It announces this new economic security partnership
that we’re investing in. And this relationship between our two countries
and our two peoples transcends whoever is in either office or whatever
is happening in the politics of either country.

And then beyond that, the President and Prime Minister Sunak have a very
good personal relationship and really have been able to develop a
strategic dialogue between them in the real sense of the word, not in
the show sense of the word. So the President looks forward to seeing him
anytime. Looks forward to having a chance to pay a visit to Number 10.
And I think you’ll see the momentum continue.

Q Jake, a few weeks ago, the President said that the after-action review
on Afghanistan vindicated him. He’s — because he said that he knew that
al Qaeda will be gone. He said the Taliban would help. That statement
sparked a lot of speculation. So can you say definitively: Is the
adminis- — administration at any point working with the Taliban to hunt
down terrorist targets?

MR. SULLIVAN: What I could say is that we are holding the Taliban to
their commitments under the Doha Agreement, which is that Afghanistan
cannot be used as a safe haven to plot terrorist attacks against anyone
and especially, from our purposes, against the United States of America,
our homeland, our allies, and our partners. We are working tirelessly
every day to ensure that that set of commitments is fulfilled.

And beyond that, I won’t say anything further.

Q Thank you, Jake.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I think that’s it.

Q Thanks, Jake.

MR. SULLIVAN: Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: All right, guys —

Q Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Oh, you’re welcome. Are you going to give us — going to
give us — (laughter) —

I actually don’t have anything. So if you guys have questions — if not,
that’s okay too.

Oh, okay.

Q (Inaudible.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Oh, wow.

Q Will the President have crumpets?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Oh.

Q With the tea.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: With the tea. Well, you heard Jake about the tea.

Thanks, everybody.

Q Bye!

Q Are you going to brief at all — or on the trip? Are you going to
brief?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah, we’re going to try and do something on Tuesday.

Q Oh, actually, Karine, this was maybe better for Jake, but there’s the
speech on Wednesday that you guys are kind of billing as a major
address.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q Is there — should we expect anything new, or is it just kind of a
summary of where the war is at this point?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I think we’ll certainly have more as we get closer to
that day.

Look, as we all know, when it comes to foreign policy, this is a place
that the President has been a leader on — not just as president, as vice
president, as a senator. And you saw what he’s done the last two years,
as far as bringing our allies and partners together. You — we’re going
to see that with NATO and the strength of NATO. We’re going to see that
at — in the UK with the Prime Minister and certainly the King.

And so I think this is going to be a continuation of — certainly of the
— of the speech that he gave in Poland. I think that was incredibly
important, as we looked at the anniversary — unfortunate anniversary of
the — of the war that Russia started. So I think you could probably —
it’ll be in that kind — type of a vein.

Q Hopefully warmer (inaudible).

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah. (Laughs.) Warm — yeah, warmer outside.

So — so I think you — that’s what you can look towards and, like, where
— where he sees the world, where — where — where — kind of, where we’re
going in our relationships with our partners and our allies.

I don’t want to get too far ahead of him, but I think that’s what you
can expect.

Q Thank you.

Q Can you give us a sense a little bit — because, you know, the —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I thought you guys said I was done. I don’t even
understand what’s happening right now. (Laughs.)

Q Just a color — a color question, because the President was at the
beach yesterday.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Okay.

Q Can you just give us a sense of what his mood is going to Europe, and
just anything that you can add?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I mean, look, I think he’s in a really — he’s in really
good spirits. You know, he’s going to see the Prime Minister Sunak for
the sixth time, as I mentioned, in six months — clearly, as Jake said —
continuing an important — continuing conversations.

He’s going to see the King, who — Jake had said — have a fairly
friendly, a very good relationship, and they’re looking to continue
growing that relationship. There’s a really important issue to talk
about, as you think about climate change. And the President has been
such a strong leader on climate change and all of the — all the actions
that he’s taken the last two years. So that’ll be a pretty substantive
conversation, we believe.

And then, look, NATO — I mean, the la- — NATO Alliance, that is so
important. You know, having added a member this past year. And clearly,
we’re — we’re pushing for Sweden to be another member.

And the strength of — of NATO — let’s not forget: When Putin started
this war, he thought he was going to break NATO, and the opp- — the
complete opposite happened. And so I think that’s going to be, I think,
incredibly important to see those members come together again to have a
conversation about Ukraine, to have a conversation about how they
continue to strengthen their partnership moving forward.

So —

Q Thank you, Karine.

Q Thank you. See you later.

3:52 P.M. EDT
