---
date: '2023-07-19'
published_time: 2023-07-19 18:58:25-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2023/07/19/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-43/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine\_Jean-Pierre"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

1:39 P.M. EDT

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Good afternoon, everybody.

Q Good afternoon.

Q Good afternoon.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Oh, nice. (Laughter.) I love that.

Okay, so, this afternoon, as you all know, the President will convene
his Competition Council to mark the second anniversary of the council’s
work to lower costs for the American people and strengthen our economy.
Promoting competition to lower cost and support small businesses is a
central pillar of Bidenomics.

As the President says capital — capitalism without competition isn’t
capitalism, it is exploitation. Without competition, costs add up. One
study found that higher prices and lower wages caused by lack of
competition cost the median American household as much as $5,000
annually.

The President’s Competition Council continues to deliver results. The
Department of Agriculture is helping lower food prices with a historic
partnership with over two dozen bipartisan state attorney generals to
promote competition and crackdown on price gouging in food and
agricultural markets.

Zillow, Apartments.com, and AffordableHousing.com answered the
President’s call to eliminate hidden junk fees by committing to show
prospective renters all fees upfront.

And the Department of Justice and the Federal Trade Commission are
proposing updated merger guidelines to protect the American people from
anti-competitive mergers.

This follows bold actions we have taken to eliminate junk fees, hidden
junk fees, and high costs in air travel, healthcare, banking, and
hearing aids that are all saving families hundreds and sometimes even
thousands of dollars a year.

The council’s work is another example of Bidenomics at work that is
lowering costs and creating a more level playing field for
small-business entrepreneurs and also workers.

Another event that happened — that is happening here today or happened
earlier is that we had more than 90 state legislators from across the
country that came to the White House for a state convening on childcare
with First Lady Dr. Jill Biden, and also the Director of the Gender
Policy Council, Jen Klein; the Director of Domestic Policy Council,
Neera Tanden; and the Director of the Office of Intergovernmental
Affairs, Tom Perez.

The conversation was centered around how we can all work together to
expand access to affordable childcare, take on out-of-pocket costs, and
support childcare workforce.

We hosted today’s convening because the Biden-Harris administration
understands that high-quality care is fundamental to families across the
country. And the implementation of care depends on the states. States
determine who is eligible for childcare assistance, how much parents
will pay out of pocket, and how much child providers are reimbursed.

And now thanks to the actions taken by this administration, states have
even more avenues to improve childcare access, affordability, and also
quality. As the President has said many time, no — many times — no
parent should have to choose between caring for their children or the
paycheck they rely on to take care of their children.

This work is more important than ever, and we will continue — we’ll
continue to take actions that provide relief to working families — that
breathing room that the President talks about often as well.

Now, turning to Ukraine, some news there: The Department of Defense
announced a new security — security assistance package to support the
people of Ukraine as they bravely defend their country. This package
includes more critical air defense capabilities such as National
Advanced Surface-to-Air Missile Systems and additional systems to help
Ukraine shoot down Russian and Ukrainian drones.

The package also includes additional artillery rounds and mine-clearing
equipment, as well as unmanned aerial systems, and equipment that will
help Ukraine better protect its ports. These latter capabilities will
become increasingly important, especially now that Russia has pulled out
of the grain deal and has renewed attacks on port cities, as we have
seen over the past two days.

The weapons and equipment we are announcing today are being procured by
the Defense Department for Ukraine through the Ukraine Security
Assistance Initiative as part of our commitment to strengthen Ukraine’s
military over the near and also long term.

As President Biden made clear in Vilnius last week, the United States is
committed to supporting Ukraine alongside our allies and partners now
and for the long future, as we get — head into the future, clearly.

Finally, one last thing. As many of you know, the Women’s World Cup
begins in less than 24 hours. How exciting. The Second Gentleman, Doug
Emhoff, is leading the U.S. delegation to the tournament. He’ll attend
tomorrow’s opening ceremony, as well as Team USA’s first game against
Vietnam on Friday. Go Team USA.

In addition to World Cup events and engagements with Team USA, the
Second Gentleman will highlight U.S. and New Zealand shared values and
priorities during his trip through his engagement with civil society,
the private sector, and community leaders in New Zealand.

The Second Gentleman — Gentleman will also deliver remarks to young
women and girls as part of a panel discussion on gender equity and women
in sports. He is, of course, thrilled to be there representing the
administration and, of course, re- — rooting for Team USA.

As the President said himself, this team epitomizes what it means to be
champions. And we are all rooting from — for them here at the White
House.

I know you guys were probably waiting for a Tuberville topper, but I
don’t have one for you today.

Aamer, hi. Good to see you.

Q Good to see you too. Could you walk us through what efforts have been
made over the last 24 hours or so by the U.S. government to contact the
North Korean government about Private King?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q And has the U.S. been able to ascertain where he’s being held and his
condition? And is there any further understanding about his motivations
to flee or his state of mind at that moment?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, all good questions, Aamer. I have a couple of
things at the top just to share so that folks are all tracking.

As you know, yesterday, the Department of Defense notified the next of
kin. And so, as you mentioned, identified the individual as a U.S. Army
Private Travis King.

The White House, Department of Defense, the State Department, and the
U.N. are all continuing to work together on this matter to ascertain the
information — the questions that you just asked me about his well-being
and the whereabouts of Private King.

We are still gathering all the facts. It is still very early on. I
believe the Secretary himself of the Department of Defense said
yesterday it might take us a little bit of time to ascertain all of that
information. But again, we’re gathering all the facts.

But I want to be very clear that the administration has and will
continue to actively work — actively work to ensure his safety and the
return of Private King to us and to the fam- — to his family, obviously.

So, that includes what we’re doing as outreach to the administration of
Sweden — and also South — to South Korea as well on this matter.

The Department of Defense, as I mentioned yesterday, is in — is — has
been engaged and having communications with its counterparts — the KPA —
on the well-being of Private King.

Again, we’re working to ascertain all the facts, all the information
that we can. And as soon as we have more to share, we certainly will.

But our prim- — primary goal is to make sure that we ascertain his
well-being, get a sense of how he’s doing. But also, clearly, we are
committed to bringing him home.

Q So is it fair to assume Sweden hasn’t had any luck thus far with
getting any answers from —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So —

Q — the North Koreans?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: — don’t have to sh- — don’t have anything to share on
our conversation specifically on Private King as it — as it relates to
his — where he is and his well-being.

But I can tell you that we have been engaged since yesterday — I think I
mentioned this at the podium that we’ve been engaged with Sweden and
also South Korea.

Q If I could just ask one more on the Competition Council thing.
Generally, with the council and these guidelines that have been rolled
out — like the ones that have rolled out today — Republican lawmakers
and some business group have (inaudible) this criticism that these
efforts will lead to greater regulatory costs that leave the economy
worse off. How do you ensure that any new regulatory burdens don’t
undermine the savings you’re trying to generate for consumers?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Look, so, we are — we are very confident in — in the
actions that we announced today. And I just — I also mentioned the other
actions that we have announced about these hidden junk fees — right? —
and also the hearing aids. I mean, this is something the Competition
Council has been very zeroed in on.

And so, we are confident that this will — this will lead to the outcome
that we certainly are trying to provide for the American people.

As I mentioned, competition is a key pillar of the Bidenomics and it is
part of the President’s agenda. We believe it’s going to lower — lower
costs for American families in targeted areas. When you think about
those surprise medical bills — I talked about the hearing aids. And so
that’s our focus.

And I said this at the top, and I’ll say it again. When it comes to
capitalism without competition, then it isn’t capitalism; we’re talking
about exploitation. And that’s what the President is trying to deal with
when you think about these big corporations that are gouging — they’re
gouging Americans.

So, the President is going to continue to do the work. We’re — the way
that we see this, as it comes to the competition’s — the President’s
competition agenda, we’re talking about supporting pro- — pro-small
business, pro-entrepreneur, pro-worker, and pro-consumer. And that is,
we believe, Bideno- — Bidenomics in action. And so, we’re confident in
that.

Go ahead, Mary.

Q You mentioned Sweden and South Korea. But just to be clear, has the
administration reached out to China at all for their help in this case?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, I don’t have any — any engagement with China to
read out to you at this time. But I can tell you for certain that South
Korea and — and Sweden, we have engaged with them.

Q And on another issue, Texas has been installing these buoys along with
razor wire on the Rio Grande near Eagle Pass. Mexico is now requesting
that Texas remove these barriers. They say the state is violating
international treaties. And Mexico actually says they first raised this
with the administration three weeks ago.

So, do you agree with Mexico that Texas is violating these international
treaties? And if so, how do you plan to respond?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, I saw some — I saw these reports. And I think
one of the things — and I’ve been very clear about this — that this
governor has done over and over again is treated this — this situation
that we’re seeing at the border in an inhumane way.

It is atrocious the — the actions that he decides to take. He ta- — he
takes this — instead of dealing with this issue in a way that we can get
to a resolution and working together, he turns it into — you know, he
turns it into a political stunt. And that’s what we have seen.

I can’t speak to conversation three weeks ago with the Mexico — Mexican
government. I don’t have any information to share on if that came up in
conversation.

But, you know, this is not surprising. This is not surprising.

Just yesterday, I was asked about — about banning children — migrant
children, not offering them water. This is what we see over and over and
over again from this Texas governor, from Governor Abbott.

And it is — it is — all we’re asking for, all we — as a country, and
what we should hold near and dear is the basic human decency — basic
human decency. And we are just not seeing this from this governor.

Q It’s clear you disagree with the governor on this, but what comes next
here? And what — does the administration believe that these barriers,
these buoys need to be removed? And what can you do to force that, if
so?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, this is — as it relates to any legal action,
that’s something that Department of Justice is going to certainly look
into or has to deal with.

As it relates to the indecent, inhumane way that migrants are being
taken — you know, the actions that are being taken against them, I can
continue to condemn them here. Right? And take — we’ve done that in the
most strongest terms. And — and so I’ll just — I’ll just leave it from
there at the moment.

Q Just to clarify, has the administration discussed this with the
Mexican government?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I just don’t have a — I don’t have any information on a
conversation that happened a couple of weeks ago with the Mex- — with
the Mexican government. I can’t — I can’t confirm that — or, currently,
I can’t confirm this coming up. I would have to certainly refer you to
the Mexican government.

What I can say is what I know and how this governor has treated
migrants. Instead of dealing with the situation in a way that we can
actually have results, he’s used this in a political stunt, and that’s
shameful. And we’re going to continue to condemn that. We’re going to
continue to call that out.

Go ahead.

Q Karine, we saw the Tom Friedman column based on a meeting with the
President. Is this true that the President is now deeply worried for the
stability and future of Israel?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, I — I’m not going to — he — I think, the
column — Tom has a quote — directly quoted the President. And so, I will
let the President’s quote stand on its own.

The President has — as you know, had productive meetings with the
President of Israel, President Horzag \[Herzog\], and also the Prime
Minister. He had a phone call, as you all know, with the Prime — Prime
Minister Netanyahu.

And the President has been very clear — right? — his — his — his
relationship with Israel goes back to his early days in the government.
It is strong. It is deep. And it is a special relationship.

And certainly, we are committed. We are committed to Israel’s security.
And — and so, we’re going to continue to — that commitment not just as
President, but as a commitment that we’ve had as — as the U.S. as I — we
— as we continue deepening that relationship with Israel.

But I will let the — let his comments in the article stand for itself.

Q And further, does he want Prime Minister Netanyahu to abandon the
judicial overhaul that he’s proposing?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: We’ve been also very clear about that, right? That
conversation about the judicial reform, the President has had direct
communications with the Prime Minister on that. We — we — we shared that
in the readout that we shared with all of you, you know, a day or two
ago. He had that conversation. It certainly came up with the President.

As we know, the President of Israel has played — has played kind of a
mediator role in those conversation. The President — we have said, when
it comes to our relationship with Israel, the U.S. relationship with
Israel, it — the core — at the core is democratic values, and that’s
what we believe.

And any changes — any major changes certainly needs — and it says it in
this article — you need a broad consensus to make any changes. And so,
that says it in the article.

The President has been very clear. I have been very clear. We’ve all
been very clear as it relates to the judicial reform.

Q Thank you.

Q Thanks, Karine. You said moments ago that you’re — that the U.S.
government is actively working to ensure Private King’s safety and his
return to his family here in the U.S. But by all accounts, Private King
ran across the border. So, what if he doesn’t want to come back home?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, I’m not going to get into hypotheticals on
that.

Right now, we are very much at the beginning of this investigation.
We’re looking into it. I mean, we said it was done willfully. Clearly,
we’ve been very upfront about that. The Department of Defense said that
yesterday during their press conference. I’m just not going to get into
hypotheticals from here.

Our — our commitment is to do everything that we can to actively work to
ensure that he’s safely — his safety and that he returns — we return him
home to his family.

Q Will the U.S. accept if he has freely chosen to defect to North Korea?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I just can’t get into hypotheticals from here. I get
the question. I just — I can’t get into hypotheticals from here.

Q And then on another topic. A new Monmouth Poll shows that Americans
still disapprove of the President’s handling of inflation. They are by
and large split on his handling of jobs and unemployment.

So, a few weeks into this new Bidenomics push, how do you rate how you
guys are doing?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, the polls don’t tell the whole story. They
don’t tell the full story, and we understand that. The data shows the
combination of unemployment and inflation is at near historic lows.
That’s what we have seen. Consumer confidence is increasing, and also
wages are rising. That’s what certainly the data is showing.

And when you think about our econ- — economic recovery is stronger. And
inflation is currently lower than any other leading world economic
countries, when you think about the G7.

So those are the facts. We’re going to continue to have those
conversations with the American public. As you know, the President is
going to go to Philly tomorrow, talk about his invest — Investing in
America plan. We’ve seen that ac- — we’ve seen the Cabinet secretaries
go across the country, crisscross the country having those
conversations.

But as we believe it, you know, the polls don’t tell the entire story.
And so we’re going to continue to have the conversation. We’re going to
continue to have a conversation with the American people.

Q How long do you think it’s going to take for the public to start —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I mean, I — you know, I —

Q — feeling differently about the economy?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I don’t have a timeline for you. But we know, just
looking at the midterms — right? — the results of the midterms —
Americans want us to continue to work and build on the historic actions
that we have taken. They want to see a lowering — us continue to work,
the President to continue to work on lowering costs. That is what
matters to them: focusing on the economy. We’re going to hear from the
President very shortly about his Competition Council and what they have
been able to accomplish on dealing with hidden junk fees.

All of those things are important. And we’ve seen very good stories from
some of you speaking about the technical — the technical, kind of,
apparatus of it, how this is going to work, and how this is going to
benefit the American people.

So, look, we’re going to — we’re going to continue to talk. We’re going
to continue to share our message. We’re going to continue to be out
there, and you’re going to see that from the President in — in about an
hour or an hour or so from now.

Go ahead, Kelly O.

Q Any expectation that at the Congressional Picnic tonight your two most
frequently mentioned, of late, Republicans, Senator Tuberville and
Marjorie Taylor Greene, would be in attendance? And has the President
made any effort to encourage them, especially Tuberville, to come
forward? Even a casual relationship-building moment over the impasse you
have with the military policy?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So I don’t have a list of who’s attending. As you know,
there — there are a lot of members — (laughs) — at least in the House
and certainly about, you know, 100 senators on the other side. So don’t
have a list of who’s attending.

Clearly, this is an opportunity for both sides to come to the White
House and enjoy the time here on the South Lawn, enjoy a picnic with
their family. And this is something that congressional members — both
sides of the chamber — enjoy. And we always have. It’s always been a
wonderful time here on the South Lawn.

Don’t have anything more to share.

Look, you know, I get the question. And I know this is coming from the
press conference from last week in Helsinki and the President’s
comments. But we also have to be very clear that what Senator Tuberville
is doing is unprecedented. It is something — holding — holding these
nominations, as we look at making sure that our military is prepared,
making sure our military families are well taken care of, that is not
something that normally occurs. This is a process that’s done in a
bipartisan way.

And so, you know, we’re going to continue to call out — call that out.
It is, again, unprecedented. This is not how we should be moving forward
as we think about our military force, as we think about the families of
these military members.

And it is important to lay that out: What he is doing is dangerous, and
it is shameful. And so, we can’t allow that.

I don’t have a conversation to announce or to share that the senator —
with the senator. Obviously, we have an Office of Leg Affairs here who’s
in constant communication with members — with members in Congress, and
that always continues. And they talk about a variety of issues.

But, I mean, the President should not have to call the senator to tell
him to stop putting our military reade- — readiness in harm’s way, to
not — to not put military families without under- — knowing where
they’re going to go next or making sure that they’re secure. And so that
is not something that the President needs to tell Senator Tuberville.

And we’ve also — yesterday, I read a bunch of quotes from a CNN article
from his own constituents who are — either have family in the military
or are veterans themselves who say that the senator does — may not
understand exactly what’s happening here and what he is doing is — is
dangerous.

Go ahead.

Q Wesleyan University has ended the practice of legacy admissions. You
know, President Biden, as you know, has criticized the practice, and
he’s called on the Education Department to look into it. Can you say
anything about where that process stands, and whether the President
supports a widespread elimination of the practice?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, I have not seen that story, so I — as it
relates to where we are with the — with any parts of the plan or the
process, I would have to refer you to the Department of Education. This
is something that I just haven’t had an opportunity to talk with folks
here about, so I don’t have anything further to share on that piece.

Q Just on another issue: Two senators — one Republican, one Democrat —
are preparing to introduce legislation that would ban federal executive
branch employees and lawmakers from owning stocks in individual
companies. This has become an issue with a potential conflict of
interest. Does the President support that concept broadly, that — that
members of the administration and lawmakers shouldn’t own individual
stocks?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, I think we’ve been — we’ve spoke- — we’ve
spoken to this before. As you know — you know, the President — you’ve
seen the President’s — his own — kind of, where he stands on that for
himself personally, on — when it comes to stocks — and him, of course,
not owning stocks and where he is. And we’ve been very clear about
ethics here. We’ve had a very stringent kind of process as it relates to
ethics and — and — and as it relates to staff here. So that hasn’t
changed. We’ve kind of laid that out and been very clear on that.

As it relates to this bill, I haven’t seen the bill. I haven’t talked to
the Office of Leg Affairs on it. So I don’t want to comment, get ahead
of that.

Go ahead.

Q Thanks, Karine. On Tuberville, he spoke to the Defense Secretary
yesterday. He said afterwards it was a good call, but then nothing has
changed. What is the next step? Are they planning to speak again? Does
anyone have a plan to speak to him again?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I mean, look, the next step — that’s up to the senator.
I mean, this is something that he’s doing. He’s holding these nominees.
He’s holding America’s military readiness — that’s what he’s doing — as
well as service members and their families, and he’s holding them
hostage.

It is divisive. It is a political stunt. It is a — it is — it undermines
our national security. This is something for the senator to speak to and
answer to why is he doing this.

And so, I don’t have any calls to read out. Clearly, this is not the
first time that the Secretary has either reached out or spoken to him.
He’s — you know, this is — this is something, clearly, that the
Secretary — as the Department of Defense — these are — these are the
people that he is in charge of, right?

And so, it is just shameful that — that he continues to do this. And we
have been very clear: We call on Republicans in the Senate to speak up,
to speak out, and not let this process — which should be a bipartisan
process — be hijacked by one person.

Q On that front, does the White House believe that Republican leaders in
the Senate have any particular responsibility or any specific leverage
to get him to change his mind?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Look, we think that they can. We think that they can
speak up and speak out. We think these Republican senators and Congress
— that it’s important to do this, that they actually speak to the
senator and ask him, “What is going on? Why are you doing this?” This is
not — this is not how we should move forward, and as we — as it relates
to our national security, our military force, our military families.

And so they have — they have — it’s — we believe that they have a — you
know, it is on them as well to speak up.

Q But, obviously, lots of people have spoken to him, and he hasn’t
changed his mind. Do you believe there’s anything else that Republican
leaders or rank and file in the Senate can do to try to influence his
position?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I understand the question, Nancy, but it’s — it’s a
shame that we have to ask this question: “What else can be done to get
this one senator, who’s holding our military redi- — readiness hostage,
our military families hostage — what else can we do to change their
mind?”

That shouldn’t be — that shouldn’t even be a question. This should be
done in a bipartisan way. We should not be holding our military force
hostage.

And, I mean, that’s why almost every day during — every — every press
conference this week, I have called this out. We’ve called out Senator
Tuberville, because we’re trying to send a message to him to say, “Hey,
this is not the way we should be moving forward. This is unprecedented.”

We even had — at the podium yesterday, as I just mentioned, we even had
quotes from people — this is — we’re talking about his constituents,
veterans in his — in his own state. Not only that, military fam- —
families in his own state saying, “This is not okay,” that he may not
fully understand what is going on here.

And so it is — it’s so disrespectful to the sacrifices that our military
force is making, the sacrifices that our military families are making.
It is — this cannot continue.

And so this is something that he has to — that he has to deal with.

Q Are there any calls or conversations that you can read out between the
White House and Republican leadership about this?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I don’t have any calls to read out at this time.

Go ahead.

Q On U.S. investment in China: There’s an executive order that’s been in
the works. A question on the timeline. Are you confident that that —
we’ll see that EO by say, like, the end of August?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, don’t have anything new on the EO to preview or a
timeline to preview. It’s a complicated process, as I’m sure you
understand, and so we want to make sure that we get this right. And it
takes some time.

What I can say is that making progress and formulating an approach to
address outbound investment in sensitive technology, particularly for
transactions in critical sectors that could undermine America’s national
security. So we’re trying to formulate that approach.

But it is — it’s going to — it’s a complicated process. We want to get
it right. And once we have more to share, we certainly will share that.

Go ahead.

Q So, yesterday, Illinois moved to become the first state in the nation
to eliminate cash bail. And I wanted to ask you about this specifically,
because during the 2020 campaign, I know that then-candidate Joe Biden
had described cash bail as a “modern day debtors’ prison.”

And so, I wondered if you could give us an update — I know he had
promised to eliminate it — on where efforts stand at a nationwide level.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: It’s a good question. Don’t have anything specifically
on what our efforts are on cash bail. I would — I would have to get back
to you specifically on the plan. But I don’t have anything —

The President’s — I should say the President’s stance has not changed.

Q Okay. Can I also ask — in this debate in the state of Illinois, there
were prosecutors, law enforcement who essentially said that this would
lead to a more dangerous climate in the state. I wondered if you all
have a message to law enforcement who do have concerns that eliminating
cash bail could lead to more dangers.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, one of the things that the President has
always been very clear about is — if we’re talking about the economy, as
we’re talking about building an economy that is — doesn’t leave anybody
behind — right? — that is — that has equity at the center of it — this
is part of that — right? — making sure that we treat people fairly.

And so, certainly that is part of that. And we think about, you know,
racial injustices, inequality. This certainly plays into that.

I don’t have anything new to share on that particular — on that
particular issue as it relates to cash bail. But certainly, the
President’s stance stands. I just don’t have anything new to share on
that at this time.

Go ahead.

Q Is everyone invited to the Congressional Picnic? Were all members of
Congress invited?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I believe so. I think that’s usually the way it works,
that all members of Congress are indeed invited. I don’t have — I don’t
have a list in front — in front of me. But I believe it is a
congressional picnic. And I believe all — all sides are invited.

We are not picking — we’re not picking who come — who gets to come and
who doesn’t get to come.

Q Right. But if somebody is not there, we shouldn’t — we can interpret
that they declined the invitation rather than that they weren’t —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I believe so. I want to be very mindful and careful,
but I believe so — that is indeed the case.

Q Okay. And then, I was also curious if the President has ever spoken
with Senator Tuberville. Do they have any relationship whatsoever?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: No, it’s a good question. I just don’t have a
conversation to read out at this time. The President has multiple
conversations with senators and House members regularly. I just don’t
have anything on this particular senator or if there’s been a
conversation in the past.

Go ahead, Anita.

Q Thanks. A quick Russia question. I’m sure you’ve seen that the
Ministry of Defense says that they’re going to treat all ships in the
Black Sea Port as, quote, “potential carriers of military cargo.” I just
wanted to get the White House’s response to this statement — what you
intend to do to help Ukraine guard against this to defend themselves,
and, you know, what the administration wants to do to exert pressure on
Russia to reconsider and rejoin the grain deal. And do you see any
alternatives to get these essential goods out of Ukraine?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, I mean, a couple of things as far as what we’re
doing. So we’re going to continue to support Ukraine’s effort to get
Ukrainian grain to the markets that they des- — that desperately need
it.

I just talked about a new initi- — a new announcement from the
Department of Defense, which also is going to include how — what part of
that actually speaks to the grain initiative. Right?

And so, I spoke to that at the top. But a couple of things is providing
financial support and supplies for Ukraine farmers, such as seeds and
fertilizer, as well as help with cro- — crop storage and processing
needs.

In fact, the Administratio- — Administrator Power is in Ukraine right
now and announced today — announced this week that the United States
will provide another $250 million for the AGRI Ukraine Initiative to
help Ukraine’s farmers produce, store, and export agricultural products
and grain — and grain to the world.

We have also applauded — let’s not forget — our — the neighboring
countries here, such as Romania, for improving overland access for
Ukrainian farmers and looking to — looking to their goods to market.

So, we’re — we are going to continue to — to help Ukraine in — in not
just the short term, but the long term, as I announced at the top. It
certainly is a priority for this administration but also for the NATO
Alliance, as we heard from them last week — the partners and our Allies
— to make sure that Ukraine has everything that it needs to continue —
to continue to make sure they continue to, you know, fight for their
freedom and also their democracy.

But as it relates to the grain initiative, we’re certainly going to do
everything that we can.

Q A follow-up on that, Karine?

Q (Inaudible) shore up their naval capabilities? Because, I mean,
Ukraine has a pretty small navy, especially compared to Russia.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah. Don’t have anything about — specifically about
the naval piece, but we’ve seen what we’ve been able to do, given
security assistance to Ukraine, to make sure they have what they need to
defend themselves.

And that is something that you’ve seen this commitment for more than 15
months now. You’ve seen this commitment from the NATO — NATO Alliance.
You’ve seen this commitment from our partners and Allies. And that’s
going to continue.

We — we probably have not seen a stronger commitment than we saw last
week. And so that’s going to continue. Just announced, again, another
initiative of how we’re going to continue to provide that –- that type
of assistance.

Go ahead.

Q Thank you. A month after the state visit by the Prime Minister Modi
from India, where did the relationship goes from here in terms of
India-U.S. relations?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So as –- as you know, Lalit, we thought the -– the
visit last — last month was extremely successful and important. The
relationship with India is stronger than ever. And, as you know, we
announced some ra- — a range of key deliverables, which some of them are
being implemented.

And so, we’ve remained very optimistic as it relates to our lern- —
long-term future and relationship with India. And so, that’s — we
believe that’s going to continue.

Q And about a year ago, India, U.S., Israel, and UAE had announced the
formation of I2U2. Was this an issue that the two discussed yesterday
(inaudible) of Israel? And how much progress has been made on that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So I don’t have an additional -– an additional meetings
highlight to share with you out of the readout that we shared with all
of you, so don’t have anything to share on the I2U2.

I know that — I know that was, as you said, an initiative that we
started a year ago. It was a vision of — of — it was a vision to —
certainly a shared vision of security and prosperous Middle — to —
Middle East region connected — keep them connected, as it’s called the
I2U2, with India and the world.

So we thought it was really important as we announced it, as you
mentioned, a year ago. I2U2 is already deepening its partnerships among
four countries — those four countries and beyond — and evidenced by
existing projects and initiative.

There’s still a strong future with I2U2. And so, we’re really excited
about the prospects of that future. And so, just don’t have anything
more to share it beyond that.

Q Can I ask a follow-up, please?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead. No, go ahead.

Q Thank you, Karine. Admiral Kirby, when he was up on the podium the
other day, he seemed to rule out the U.S. participating or even
repacking a convoy system to get grain in and out of the Ukraine, you
know, because of the dangers, but the Ukrainians are really pushing for
that. In fact, a senior Ukraine official told us — AFP — today that —
that they’re negotiating right now with regional countries in the Black
Sea, and that what they want to see in the U.N. — some kind of U.N.
mandate for this. Is –- is the U.S., you know, into exploring any of
that –- into the U.N. part?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, I mean, the Admiral answered this question. I don’t
have anything else to share beyond what he — he laid out on that
particular question.

And we get it. We hear what the Ukrainians are asking for. Just don’t
have anything else to share. I just laid out three important pillars, if
you will, of how we’re assisting right now — with — with this grain
initiative no longer, certainly, existing — how we’re going to help
Ukrainian farmers.

I just announ- — I just talked about what the Administrator Power said
this week about the $250 million for the –- the Ukrainian initiative to
get Ukraine farmers produce and store and –- and ex- — export
agriculture products and grain to the world. So that is really
important.

So we’re taking steps to help in ways that we can. We’ve been very —
very detailed about those steps that we’re taking. As far as it relates
to your question, I just don’t have anything beyond what the Admiral
shared a day or two ago.

Go ahead, Karen.

Q Thanks, Karine. Several Democratic senators wrote a letter to student
loan service providers this week saying they’re concerned about whether
they’re going to be able to handle the restart of payments this fall.
And they’re citing what they say is a heavy workload and the weakened
ability of these providers to deal with all of this because of layoffs
and the big transfer of borrowers during the pause over the last three
years. Does the administration share those concerns? And has the White
House spoken to those senators about what the federal government might
be able to do to alleviate some of these promises?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So one of the things I can say is as –- as — as the
pause is going to — is going to be lifted, the Department of Education
has been in touch with certain administrators to see how — what we can
do to be helpful. I don’t have any calls to read out with these -– the
two senators that you list out.

But it is something that the Department of Education is aware of and
wants to make sure that we do this in a smart and effective way. I don’t
have anything — any details. I would have to refer you to Department of
Education, as certainly they are –- they are running this process.

Q And when the student loan process was all announced a couple of weeks
ago, there was that 12 month on-ramp transition period, which was
certainly framed as a way to help borrowers as they restarted their
payments, if they missed a payment, that they wouldn’t default on their
loans.

But could this end up helping the loan providers if they’re dealing with
the flood on their end and helping them more so than the borrowers?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Well, it was designed to help the borrowers. That was
the whole idea of announcing the 12-month ramp. That’s what it’s
designed to do. That’s what we want to make sure that we understand:
that some — it’s going to take folks a little bit more time, and they do
need a little bit of that breathing room.

And so, we believe that it is going to be beneficial to the borrowers.
We believe that is going to be — it’s –- it’s a — it’s an option that is
certainly needed for many borrowers. So that’s — that’s how we moved it
forward. That’s how we’re looking at it.

And so, we believe, again, it’s going to be something that the borrowers
were -– will — will benefit from, as we’re — as we’re getting them back
into — into this loan process.

Q Thanks, Karine. On the Competition Council convening later, let’s take
a look at the rental fees part of this: that you’re offering
transparency on that, as you have with a number of programs. But some
Americans have been waiting more than a year and a half for actual
prices and fees to come down. So, when will the prices and fees come
down?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, as far — look, I think when you look at what we’ve
been able to do, the actions that we have taken — I talked about the
hearing aids, right? I’ve talked about important — the –- the important
— what we’ve seen with Inflation Reduction Act with insulin capped at
$35. We’ve seen how we’re preventing as — as many as one million
surprise medical bills every month. Americans are saving $5 billion a
year on overdraft fees. And consumers are better able to — to comparison
shop to get the best deal on apartments and event tickets.

And that’s something that we’re seeing today, when you look at the —
when we put the junk fees: making sure that’s up front. And so,
consumers are able to look at what the — what the junk fees are and make
decision that is good for them. And so, that is incredibly important.

So, we have seen results. We have seen real results from what the Pre- —
the actions that the President has taken to lower costs for the American
people. And this is something that the President says: He’s going to try
and figure out how to do that.

And so, we’re going to hear from him again. And he’s going to lay out
the Competition Council and these announcements today, as I did at the
beginning.

So, look, we understand housing affordability is a challenge for
families. This is why we make announcements like these. This is why we
make sure that — that we take action in this administration, when you
think about the Housing Supply Action Plan — and that is going to help
housing supply shortfall that we have seen — that we have seen recently.
So, it’s really important that we do that.

The good — the good news is that we’re starting to see a housing market
cool. So, that is something that we’re seeing. But we believe that, you
know, Bidenomics is working, with these actions that we took today. Of
course, there’s always more work to be done.

Q But why not — why do this now? Why not in the first year of the
presidency? Why now? So it rolls out next year, as voters begin to vote
for the —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q — presidential election, or —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Look, I — let’s — let’s talk about the first year of
this administration, right? The first year of the administration, we’re
dealing with the economy that was turned upside down because of COVID;
because we didn’t have a comprehensive plan to deal with making sure
people got shots in arms; because, let’s not forget, businesses were
closed, schools were closed.

And what does — did this President do? He made sure that the American
Rescue Plan — as well Democrats in Congress — got passed — right? — and
got that out of the way and made sure that the economy got back on its —
on its feet.

We passed — we passed historical pieces of legislation. I just talked
about the insulin being capped at 35 bucks — right? — for seniors.
That’s something that we were able to pass last year in the Inflation
Reduction Act. It’s going to lower costs for energy, going to continue
to lower costs on healthcare.

These are actions that the President did. This is what — we talk about
Bidenomics. This is it. This is what we were able to do in the first two
years.

And so, the President has always said — even today, he’ll probably say —
right? — he’s going to always continue to look for ways to lower costs —
what oth- — what other ways that we can do to lower costs for the
American people. That’s what you’re going to hear from him today:
another way to lower costs or give — give the American people an
opportunity to make decisions on how to lower costs for their household.
That’s — that’s the hidden junk fees that we see, right? That’s the —
that’s the role of the Competition Council.

So, the President has taken action — actions over and over again to deal
with what Americans really care about: the economy. And he wants to
continue to do that, continue to lower costs.

Go ahead, Todd.

Q Thanks. Back on the Texas border barrier. Is the state’s installation
of razor wire illegal under international law or any other law?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, I can’t speak to the — the legal piece of the
— of the wires. That is not something I can speak to. That’s something
that DOJ can speak to more — more — you know, more clearly.

What I can say is that we’re going to condemn any — you know, we’re
going to continue to condemn the actions — these types of actions the
governor takes when it comes to treating these migrants in an inhumane
way. That is something that we will be very clear about.

As far as the legal piece of that, I would refer you to Department of
Justice.

Q What — what moves, what kind of efforts have been made to address
concerns about that razor wire — concerns raised by migrant advocates,
by Mexico, by Border Patrol agents? Has anything been done to remove it?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, I would — I would refer you to Department of
Justice. And I would also refer you to Department of Homeland Security
to see exactly what is being done with these — with this issue.

I don’t have anything to share with you here. But, again, we are going
to continue to condemn these types of actions that we see from this
governor. It is a political stunt. It is inhumane. It is atrocious. When
we think about even the news that we heard yesterday about not providing
water to migrant children, this is an action that we see from this
governor over and over again. And we’re certainly going to call that
out.

As any legal actions, that is something for the Department of Justice to
speak to.

Q One last quick question.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q President López Obrador — Obrador, earlier this week, said that he —
he is urging Hispanic Americans to vote against Governor Abbott and any
Republican who fails to denounce this border tactic by Texas. Is the
administration okay with that kind of involvement in domestic politics
(inaudible)?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I’m just not — that is not something I’m going to speak
to. That is something for the President of Mexico to speak to. I’m just
not going to get involved in elections.

Q Karine, can I follow up on —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Sure. Go ahead, Brian.

Q Just to follow up on that. Are — are you saying that — because in the
past, when this has happened on the border in several states, Homeland
Security and Border Patrol have said, “Listen, the purview of the
international borders is the federal government, not the states.” So,
are — are you saying that we’ve ceded the Border Patrol —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: That’s not what I said. I said you have to talk to the
Department of Homeland Security and the Department of Justice.

Q But — but you’re not — this administration isn’t going to cede
international control of its boundary?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I mean, absolutely not. Absolutely not. I’m just saying
that that is something — as far as actions, that’s something for the
Department of Homeland Security to speak to.

Q Thanks.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead, in the back.

Q Thanks, Karine. Cardinal Zuppi and President Biden met last night. I
saw the readouts. After their meeting, does the President believe the
Vatican can help end the war in Ukraine?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, just a couple of things on that. You saw the
readout, as you just mentioned, of the President’s meeting with the
Cardinal. We put that out last night.

Look, just a couple of things that I know the President would want me to
share here is that he has shared his wishes for Pope Francis’s continued
ministry and global leadership, and welcomed the recent nomination of a
U.S. Archbishop as Cardinal. They also discussed the Holy See’s efforts
providing humanitarian aid to address the widespread suffering caused by
Russia’s continuing aggression in Ukraine, as well as the Vatican’s
advocacy for the return of forcible deported Ukrainian children.

What Russia has done, kidnapping thousands of Ukrainian children from
their families and transferring them to other parts of Ukraine or
deporting them to Russia, is obviously horrifying. So, we applaud — we
certainly applaud the Vatican’s advocacy for the return of these
children. We think it’s important advocacy.

And so, that is something that the President discussed with the Cardinal
yesterday.

Q And can you just tell me real quickly: Did the use of cluster bombs
come up? The Church, the Pope against those, obviously. Did that come up
in their conversation?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I — I don’t have anything beyond the readout from last
night.

Go ahead, Courtney.

Q Thank you. When will the President sign the Taiwan trade deal that the
Senate passed last night?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I don’t have any — I don’t have a timeline for you on
that at this time.

Q And I also wanted to ask about the defense bill. Does the President
want your policy on troops and abortions to be included in the bill? For
example, would he want the bill to codify the policy or not touch it at
all?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: What I can say is the President wants a piece of
legislation that is bipartisan, as we’ve done historically, in the past.
That’s what the President wants to see: a bipartisan piece of
legislation.

All right.

Q Karine, one on Israel?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Last question —

Q Thank you, Karine.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: — and the I really got to go.

Q Thank you, Karine. At the top, in the statement, you talked about a
new weapon system that the U.S. would f- — is providing to Ukraine.
What’s the timetable for getting that weapon system to the Ukrainian
military?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, any timetable as it — as it relates to any weapon
system, I would have to refer you to the Pentagon.

Q Can I ask you another question? On the other side of Pennsylvania
Avenue today, there is a hearing: House Oversight Committee, chaired by
James Comer. And he has before the committee these two individuals who
work for the IRS. They’ve invoked whistleblower status. And they’ve
alleged that there has been preferential treatment that has been given
to Hunter Biden. Is there any reason why those allegations should not be
believed, from your point of view?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, my colleague at the White House Counsel has
addressed this, so I certainly will refer you to him.

But a couple of things I do want to say: The President respects the rule
of law. He respects the independence of the Department of Justice, as it
relates to their conduct in investigation. That’s something that we say
over and over from here. And you’ve heard from the President,
specifically.

On this case, let’s not forget: This has been led by a Trump-appointed
U.S. attorney. Let’s not forget that. And the President has said — we
have said that he has not been involved.

And so, look, what I can say is — just taking a step back and looking at
what the President is even doing today, he is going to focus on how we
can continue to do the work of the American people, how we can continue
to lower costs, right? And he’s taking on big — big corporations who are
price gouging — price gouging the American people. And so — and that’s
going to be his focus. That’s what he’s going to continue to focus on.

Let’s not forget, in the midterms, that was the focus that Republicans
said that they wanted to do. They wanted to run a midterm, or — or their
message during the midterm was: How do we lower costs for the American
people? It doesn’t seem like that’s their focus right now. Their focus
is continuing to do political stunts. That’s what they want to do.

But that’s not what the President is focusing on. You’re going to hear
from him in a few minutes about that.

Thanks, everybody.

2:27 P.M. EDT
