---
date: '2025-02-28'
published_time: 2025-02-28 15:59:55-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/2025/02/support-pours-in-for-president-trump-vp-vances-america-first-strength/
tags: articles
title: "Support Pours in for President Trump, VP Vance\u2019s America First Strength"
---
 
Today, President Donald J. Trump and Vice President JD Vance made clear
to the world that the United States will not be taken advantage of — a
sentiment echoed by the cabinet and members of Congress from across the
country.

[**Secretary of State Marco
Rubio**](https://x.com/SecRubio/status/1895554419305091087): “Thank you
@POTUS for standing up for America in a way that no President has ever
had the courage to do before. Thank you for putting America First.
America is with you!”

[**Sen. Lindsey
Graham**](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1895560308133150973):
“I’ve never been more proud of President Trump for showing the American
people — and the world — you don’t trifle with this man … He wanted to
get a ceasefire. He wants to end the war and Zelenskyy felt like he
needed to bait Trump in the Oval Office.”

[**Secretary of Homeland Security Kristi
Noem**](https://x.com/Sec_Noem/status/1895548785969021053): “I am so
proud of our Commander-in-Chief. Thank you President @RealDonaldTrump
and @VP for standing up for America. We will not tolerate the political
games and disrespect of America. America is back.”

[**Secretary of Defense Pete
Hegseth**](https://x.com/PeteHegseth/status/1895541069921866167)**:**
“Amen, Mr. President.”

[**Secretary of the Treasury Scott
Bessent**](https://x.com/SecScottBessent/status/1895536042188665111)**:**
“Thank you, President Trump, for standing up for the American people and
our nation on the global stage.”

[**Secretary of the Interior Doug
Burgum**](https://x.com/SecretaryBurgum/status/1895546944640205106)**:**
“Thank you @POTUS for standing strong for America while working to end
the killing abroad.”

[**Secretary of Agriculture Brooke
Rollins**](https://x.com/SecRollins/status/1895536214419317190)**:**
“American leadership is back — in the Oval Office — and on the world
stage. FEARLESS. BOLD. RELENTLESS. We will save America.”

[**Secretary of Transportation Sean
Duffy**](https://x.com/SecDuffy/status/1895558190529724594): “Thank you
@POTUS for standing up for the United States. The American people will
not stand for disrespect of our President, Oval Office, or our generous
taxpayers. Peace is only accomplished through strength and our allies
need to understand that.”

[**Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Scott
Turner**](https://x.com/SecretaryTurner/status/1895539391474684227)**:**
“President Trump is standing up for forgotten Americans, not endless
foreign wars. Biden’s legacy — increased homelessness, record high
interest rates, all-time highs to buy a house, and Americans footing the
bill. That ended January 20th. The American people are behind @POTUS.”

[**Sen. Jim
Banks**](https://x.com/SenatorBanks/status/1895540268717523433)**:**
“Thank you President Trump for standing up for America!”

[**Sen. Marsha
Blackburn**](https://x.com/VoteMarsha/status/1895542829604352468)**:**
“Thank you President Trump and VP Vance or standing up for America.”

[**Sen. Bill
Hagerty**](https://x.com/SenatorHagerty/status/1895547189835006288)**:**
“The United States of America will no longer be taken for granted. The
contrast between the last four years and now could not be more clear.
Thank you, Mr. President.”

[**Sen. Josh
Hawley**](https://x.com/HawleyMO/status/1895540163658547576)**:**
“Remember: the U.S. Senate has repeatedly and for years voted BILLIONS
of taxpayer dollars to Ukraine with no strings attached and with no true
oversight. It’s time for some ACCOUNTABILITY.”

[**Sen. Jim
Justice**](https://x.com/JimJustice_WV/status/1895541874301288599)**:**
“Glad to have a @POTUS and @VP in charge that absolutely put America
FIRST.”

[**Sen. Mike
Lee**](https://x.com/SenMikeLee/status/1895536905103749249)**:** “Thank
you for standing up for OUR COUNTRY and putting America first, President
Trump and Vice President Vance!”

[**Sen. Bernie
Moreno**](https://x.com/berniemoreno/status/1895536337354440904)**:**
“Finally we have a President who will speak the TRUTH and stand up
against Washington’s endless wars. American taxpayers have been funding
this war, it’s time to stop the killing and stop risking World War 3!”

[**Sen. Markwayne
Mullin**](https://x.com/SenMullin/status/1895559920256500213): “Under
this President— the greatest, freest, and most generous nation on Earth
is putting America First. I’d encourage anyone who has a problem with
that to reevaluate their priorities.”

[**Sen. Rick
Scott**](https://x.com/SenRickScott/status/1895533337223270787)**:**
“Thank you President Trump for standing up for America.”

[**Sen. Eric
Schmitt**](https://x.com/Eric_Schmitt/status/1895538306378842296)**:**
“It’s about time we have leaders who say what the American people are
really thinking and prioritize the core national interests of America.
The American taxpayer is tapped out, and President Trump and VP Vance
are spot on.”

[**Sen. Tommy
Tuberville**](https://x.com/SenTuberville/status/1895534909168771275)**:**
“Thank you Mr. President and Vice President Vance for putting America
first”

[**Majority Leader Steve
Scalise**](https://x.com/SteveScalise/status/1895559287625433106):
“President Trump is fighting for PEACE around the world and is putting
America First as our best negotiator—he’s the only one to get Russia to
the table to consider a serious and lasting peace agreement with
Ukraine.”

[**Chairwoman Lisa
McClain**](https://x.com/RepLisaMcClain/status/1895559586511536246):
“President Trump inherited this war. He has said from the beginning he
wants to bring peace. @POTUS is a strong leader, and I know his
negotiations will bring a deal together.”

[**Rep. Andy
Biggs**](https://x.com/RepAndyBiggsAZ/status/1895554875670610369): “Gone
are the days of foreign leaders walking all over us and snubbing their
noses at America’s generosity. There’s a new President and Vice
President in town. World leaders would be wise to humble themselves.”

[**Rep. Tim
Burchett**](https://x.com/RepTimBurchett/status/1895541780910899660):
“Job well done by @realDonaldTrump and our VP @JDVance. Give respect to
get respect.”

[**Rep. Mike
Collins**](https://x.com/RepMikeCollins/status/1895554249570074938):
“Thank God we finally have a @POTUS who is willing to put America FIRST.
Blessed are the peacemakers.”

[**Rep. Eli
Crane**](https://x.com/RepEliCrane/status/1895536291288400374)**:**
“America First. Thank you, President Trump and Vice President Vance.”

[**Rep. Dan
Crenshaw**](https://x.com/RepDanCrenshaw/status/1895558637063717310):
“If you are the leader of a country in a dire situation with no path to
peace without American support, do not come into the Oval Office and
argue with the President of the United States in public. Just a word of
advice.”

[**Rep. Andrew
Clyde**](https://x.com/Rep_Clyde/status/1895537781931495485)**:**
“President Trump and Vice President Vance are standing up for the
AMERICAN PEOPLE. Our great country will NOT be taken advantage of or
disrespected.”

[**Rep. Byron
Donalds**](https://x.com/RepDonaldsPress/status/1895538671941808491)**:**
“This is what putting the AMERICAN PEOPLE FIRST looks like. Thank you
@realdonaldtrump and @JDVance for standing up for our nation.”

[**Rep. Brandon
Gill**](https://x.com/RepBrandonGill/status/1895541832656044062)**:**
“America First in action. Thank you, @realdonaldtrump and @JDVance, for
prioritizing our people and for promoting peace!”

[**Rep. Lance
Gooden**](https://x.com/Lancegooden/status/1895537705028894727)**:**
“President @realdonaldtrump and Vice President @JDVance will never allow
the United States to be disrespected or taken advantage of. America
First, always!”

[**Rep. Paul
Gosar**](https://x.com/RepGosar/status/1895536679651516900)**:** “Thank
you, Mr. President and Vice President. The days of the USA getting
pushed around are clearly over.”

[**Rep. Marjorie Taylor
Greene**](https://x.com/RepMTG/status/1895537523004477786)**:**
“President Trump and Vice President Vance will put America First every
single time. Putting Zelensky in his place while he disrespects the U.S.
in the Oval Office is exactly what American leadership should look like.
This is what We The People want to see!”

[**Rep. Pat
Harrigan**](https://x.com/RepPatHarrigan/status/1895540991417074088):
“America’s priorities come first. @POTUS and @VP made it clear—Ukraine’s
interests are not America’s interests. We’ve spent hundreds of billions
with no accountability, no clear objectives, and no plan for peace. It’s
time to put America first and end this war.”

[**Rep. Mark
Harris**](https://x.com/RepMarkHarrisNC/status/1895557561094738170):
“Thank you, President Trump and Vice President Vance, for boldly
defending America’s interests. This is PEACE THROUGH STRENGTH”

[**Rep. Diana
Harshbarger**](https://x.com/RepHarshbarger/status/1895534223936868861)**:**
“The act displayed by Zelenskyy in the Oval Office was nothing short of
a massive show of disrespect for the Trump Administration and the
American people. Despite this, President Trump and Vice President Vance
are holding the line and trying to end this conflict peacefully. God
bless them both.”

[**Rep. Wesley Hunt**](https://x.com/RepWPH/status/1895533010969321617):
“You do NOT blame the people fighting to save your country! America
leads—no more excuses!”

[**Rep. Nancy
Mace**](https://x.com/RepNancyMace/status/1895537199447490864): “Peace
through strength live from the Oval”

[**Rep. Thomas
Massie**](https://x.com/RepThomasMassie/status/1895533884995248578): “Is
this the end of Zelensky’s presidency? He hitched his wagon to Biden and
the deep state. They lost and now he doesn’t seem to be playing his
cards well.”

[**Rep. Brian
Mast**](https://x.com/HouseForeignGOP/status/1895541775869354071):
“American won’t be taken advantage of and America won’t be taken for
granted. Thank you, President Trump and Vice President Vance for
standing up for America.”

[**Rep. Addison
McDowell**](https://x.com/RepMcDowell/status/1895544766944985472):
“AMERICA AND THE AMERICAN TAXPAYER ALWAYS COME FIRST”

[**Rep. Mary
Miller**](https://x.com/RepMaryMiller/status/1895543442090180938): “What
has happened in Ukraine is a travesty. Joe Biden threw “gas on the
fire.” Ukraine lost an entire generation, and Americans hundreds of
billions in tax dollars. We thank God for giving us strong leadership.
Thank you @POTUS and @VP for putting America’s interests first, and
working to end this terrible war.”

[**Rep. Riley
Moore**](https://x.com/RepRileyMoore/status/1895539789753172173)**:**
“It is amazing to have a President and VP who put America First! Thank
you President Trump and VP Vance for fighting for our country and our
people!”

[**Rep. Troy
Nehls**](https://x.com/RepTroyNehls/status/1895536791337517356)**:**
“President Trump and Vice President Vance are standing up for the
American people. This is America First leadership on display. Thank you
POTUS and VP!”

[**Rep. Ralph
Norman**](https://x.com/RepRalphNorman/status/1895546705564909613)**:**
“THIS is strong leadership that is ensuring we put the American people
FIRST. Thank you @realDonaldTrump and @JDVance for standing up for our
nation.”

[**Rep. Andy
Ogles**](https://x.com/RepOgles/status/1895541144962154540)**:** “This
is what it looks like to stand up for America.”

[**Rep. Mike
Rulli**](https://x.com/RepMichaelRulli/status/1895534712258724009): “You
don’t have the cards!”

[**Rep. Keith
Self**](https://x.com/RepTimBurchett/status/1895541780910899660)**:**
“TOUGH and FAIR. The world is witnessing American leadership back in the
White House. Thank you President Trump and Vice President Vance.”

[**Rep. Victoria
Spartz**](https://x.com/RepSpartz/status/1895549184146845752): “Zelensky
is doing a serious disservice to the Ukrainian people insulting the
American President and the American people – just to appease Europeans
and increase his low polling in Ukraine after he failed miserably to
defend his country. This is not a theater act but a real war!”

[**Rep. Greg
Steube**](https://x.com/RepGregSteube/status/1895541437518983362)**:**
“Ridiculous grandstanding by Zelensky in the Oval Office. The United
States has spent hundreds of billions of dollars to defend Ukraine. And
this is the thanks the American people get?  It’s time to end this war.”

[**Rep. Marlin
Stutzman**](https://x.com/RepStutzman/status/1895541157243080861):
“TRUMP IS THE GREATEST NEGOTIATOR AMERICA HAS EVER HAD! AMERICA IS BEING
MADE GREAT BEFORE OUR VERY EYES!”

[**Rep. Andy
Weber**](https://x.com/TXRandy14/status/1895543721753788603)**:**
“America FIRST. Strong, unapologetic leadership on the world stage is
BACK!”

[**Rep. Joe
Wilson**](https://x.com/RepJoeWilson/status/1895526775297646729): “I
agree with President Trump that Ukrainian soldiers have been
unbelievably brave! Critical Minerals Deal a major step forward toward
ending the war responsibly. More sanctions on Russia & arms for Ukraine
create maximum leverage for FULL land swap Art of the Deal!”
