---
date: '2025-02-13'
modified_time: 2025-02-13 20:42:37-05:00
published_time: 2025-02-13 20:42:36-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/2025/02/president-trump-demands-fair-reciprocal-trade/
tags: articles
title: President Trump Demands Fair, Reciprocal Trade
---
 
**Today, President Donald J. Trump unveiled a plan for fair, free,
reciprocal trade as he makes clear to the world that the United States
will no longer tolerate being ripped off.** The U.S. has one of the most
open economies in the world, yet our trading partners keep their markets
closed to U.S. exports — and reciprocal trade will finally correct that
imbalance.

**President Trump’s plan to restore fairness and put American workers
first was met with immediate praise:**

[**Renewable Fuels
Association:**](https://ethanolrfa.org/media-and-news/category/news-releases/article/2025/02/rfa-thanks-president-trump-for-taking-action-to-counter-brazil-ethanol-tariff)
“For almost a decade now, we have spent precious time and resources
fighting back against an unfair and unjustified tariff regime imposed by
Brazil’s government on U.S. ethanol imports. What’s more ironic is that
these tariff barriers have been erected against U.S. ethanol imports
while our country has openly accepted—and even encouraged and
incentivized—ethanol imports from Brazil. As the two largest ethanol
producers on the planet, we long enjoyed a cooperative free-trade
relationship with Brazil involving ethanol, relying on each other when
there were shortfalls or disruptions in the U.S. or Brazilian
marketplace. However, that bilateral cooperation was abandoned by Brazil
in 2017, when they instituted a tariff rate quota scheme, and eventually
adopted a tariff in 2020. The Brazilian tariff on U.S. ethanol now
stands at 18 percent and has virtually eliminated all market access for
U.S. ethanol producers. We thank President Trump for taking this action
and hope this reciprocal tariff will help encourage a return to free and
fair ethanol trade relationship with Brazil.”

[**American Iron and Steel
Institute:**](https://www.steel.org/2025/02/aisi-statement-on-president-trumps-memo-on-reciprocal-trade/)
“AISI applauds President Trump’s action today ordering the development
of a comprehensive plan for restoring fairness in U.S. trade
relationships and countering non-reciprocal trading
arrangements. American steel producers know well the negative impact of
foreign unfair trade practices, including subsidies, currency
manipulation and other unfair and discriminatory policies and practices,
on domestic industries and their workers … We look forward to working
with the Secretary of Commerce, the U.S. Trade Representative and other
key administration officials as they develop their plan of action to
ensure reciprocity in international trade and to preserve the
competitiveness of the American steel industry and other sectors.”

[**Growth
Energy:**](https://growthenergy.org/2025/02/13/brazilian-trade-barriers/)
“While American biofuel producers have been almost entirely blocked off
from the Brazilian market, Brazilian producers have enjoyed unfettered
access to the U.S. In some cases, certain policies in the U.S. even
incentivize the use of imported Brazilian ethanol instead of ethanol
produced here in the U.S. This runs contrary to putting America first,
and is exactly why President Trump is taking steps to address this
issue. Thank you, President Trump for taking action and pushing for a
level playing field for American ethanol producers.”

[**Small Business
Administration:**](https://x.com/SBAgov/status/1890148991288963525)
“President Trump is right: restoring a level playing field on trade will
unlock the next blue collar boom – creating jobs and powering our
economy through ‘Made in America.’ Huge news for Main Street!”

[**Energy Secretary Chris
Wright:**](https://x.com/SecretaryWright/status/1890147412540637343)
“President’s Trump’s ‘Fair and Reciprocal Plan’ on trade puts the
American people first. As a former businessman, it’s great to see our
country being run like a business and fighting for fairness on trade–
it’s the American way!”

[**Secretary of the Interior Doug
Burgum:**](https://x.com/SecretaryBurgum/status/1890140996740030652)
“President Trump is making America strong again. His Fair and Reciprocal
Plan is commonsense: if you impose tariffs on us, we will impose tariffs
on you in return.”

[**Secretary of Transportation Sean
Duffy:**](https://x.com/SecDuffy/status/1890174374596301122) “Bravo,
President Trump! Thank you for announcing the Fair and Reciprocal Plan,
which is based on legislation we worked on together in your first term.
Unfair trade practices have hurt America’s transportation and
infrastructure sectors for too long. President Trump’s trade plan will
strengthen supply chains, boost infrastructure investments, and expand
American transportation solutions. We promised a golden age of
transportation, and I will not rest until America’s transportation
system is great again!”

[**Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Scott
Turner:**](https://x.com/SecretaryTurner/status/1890142679377613310)
“For too long Washington has put foreign interests above Americans —
that ends today. @POTUS’ Fair and Reciprocal Plan will put American
workers on a level playing field.”

[**EPA Administrator Lee
Zeldin:**](https://x.com/epaleezeldin/status/1890149078396539174) “The
American people elected @POTUS with a mandate to grow our economy and
bring back American manufacturing. When it comes to Reciprocal tariffs,
no one should ever underestimate President Trump’s vision, long game,
and determination to deliver the Great American Comeback.”

[**Speaker Mike Johnson
(R-LA):**](https://x.com/SpeakerJohnson/status/1890120154488447207) “For
too long, foreign countries have exploited America through unfair trade
practices. President Trump’s reciprocal tariffs aim to confront these
countries, protecting American workers and businesses through trade that
is fair again. The Trump policies are focused on leveling the playing
field and putting America FIRST.”

[**Sen. Jim Banks
(R-IN):**](https://x.com/SenatorBanks/status/1890125230523216292) “The
globalist approach to trade threw our workers under a bus driven by
their foreign competitors. President Trump’s America First trade plan
corrects this injustice that our industries and workers have faced for
decades. The reciprocal tariffs announced today will bring back fairness
and prosperity and stop Americans from being taken advantage of.”

[**Sen. Marsha Blackburn
(R-TN):**](https://x.com/MarshaBlackburn/status/1890111825192288655)
“President Trump is putting American workers and farmers first. He will
end unfair trade deals and prioritize goods made in America! With
President Trump at the negotiating table, we are going to get the best
possible deal.”

[**Sen. Lindsey Graham
(R-SC):**](https://x.com/LindseyGrahamSC/status/1890131741232201839)
“Most countries charge us far more in tariffs than we charge them. Those
days are over. I applaud President Trump’s decision to impose reciprocal
tariffs against our trading partners. Whatever tariffs they put on
American products, we will put on their products. This will be a game
changer. Simple and brilliant.”

[**Sen. Roger Marshall
(R-KS):**](https://x.com/RogerMarshallMD/status/1890131872979591306)
“Gone are the days of unfair trade deals that give foreign nations the
upper hand. Today, President Trump put the world on notice: America will
no longer be taken advantage of.”

[**Sen. Pete Ricketts
(R-NE):**](https://www.dailysignal.com/2025/02/13/trumps-blanket-tariff-plan-praised-rust-belt-congressmen/amp/)
“The average weighted tariff on foreign products coming into the U.S. is
1.5%, yet the average tariff on U.S. products globally is 6%. President
Trump promised to bring those numbers closer to balance. These tariffs
are a step toward accomplishing that goal.”

[**Sen. Rick Scott
(R-FL):**](https://x.com/SenRickScott/status/1890117931121668256)
“President Trump’s fight for a level playing field and reciprocal
treatment is common sense. The U.S. is done treating others better than
they’re treating us. President Trump understands the art of the deal,
and thanks to his strong leadership, we’re getting better deals that
will help our businesses and grow our economy!”

[**Sen. Tommy Tuberville
(R-AL):**](https://x.com/SenTuberville/status/1890124707082727838)
“President Trump is brokering deals that put American farmers,
manufacturers, and producers first. America has some of the best and
brightest manufacturers and there’s no reason we can’t produce most
things right here at home.”

[**Majority Whip Tom Emmer
(R-MN):**](https://x.com/GOPMajorityWhip/status/1890135775498629305)
“The master negotiator strikes again. @POTUS is realigning the playing
field with countries that have taken advantage of us for far too long
and delivering on his promise to put America FIRST.”

[**Chairwoman Lisa McClain
(R-MI):**](https://x.com/RepLisaMcClain/status/1890115111064596626)
“President Trump is wasting no time leveling the playing field. I am
optimistic the pressure applied by the ongoing tariff negotiations will
lead to a wave of investment across the U.S. @POTUS is keeping his
promise to put our economy first.”

[**Ways and Means Committee Chair Jason Smith
(R-MO):**](https://x.com/RepJasonSmith/status/1890119422670688429)
“President Trump understands that American workers and manufacturers can
outcompete those of any other nation. But for far too long they have
been held back by a lack of reciprocity because other countries impose
much higher tariffs and other barriers than the United States imposes on
imports. President Trump’s Executive Order helps deliver a level playing
field for American workers and manufacturers.”

[**Rep. Carlos Gimenez
(R-FL):**](https://x.com/RepCarlos/status/1890119277573026153)
“President Trump has just announced RECIPROCAL TARIFFS for countries
unfairly treating American products! If you want to sell to the USA, we
must have access to your market as well. What is fair, is fair!”

[**Rep. Byron Donalds
(R-FL):**](https://x.com/RepDonaldsPress/status/1890120064516661501) “We
will no longer tolerate being ripped-off by the rest of the world. Under
President Trump, government is putting the American people first again.
And that means RECIPROCAL TARIFFS”

[**Rep. Randy Feenstra
(R-IA):**](https://x.com/RepFeenstra/status/1890131271181111432) “Brazil
imposes an 18% tariff on U.S. ethanol while we only charge Brazil 2.5%.
In 2024, that imbalance resulted in our nation importing $200 million in
Brazilian ethanol while Brazil only imported $52 million in U.S.
ethanol. Our farmers deserve better!”

[**Rep. Andy Harris
(R-MD):**](https://x.com/RepAndyHarrisMD/status/1890116710726091147)
“The days of America being taken advantage of are over. The “Fair and
Reciprocal Plan” will put the American worker first and bring fairness
back to international trade.”

[**Rep. Diana Harshbarger
(R-TN):**](https://x.com/RepHarshbarger/status/1890112573942759520) “Our
nation has been at the bad end of business deals regarding trade
practices with other countries for far too long. That’s coming to an
end. President Trump’s reciprocal tariffs are putting the world on
notice — the gravy train is over, and we won’t be taken advantage of
anymore.”

[**Rep. Kevin Hern
(R-OK):**](https://x.com/repkevinhern/status/1890118251532939747)
“President Trump is a strong leader – he’s not allowing the world to
take advantage of the United States any longer. These reciprocal tariffs
will incentivize other nations to level the playing field and remove
long-standing, exorbitant tariffs. America FIRST!”

[**Rep. Riley Moore
(R-WV):**](https://x.com/RepRileyMoore/status/1890123804019708120)
“President Trump just announced plans to implement reciprocal tariffs on
the foreign countries who are ripping us off. I’m proud to be leading
this effort in Congress.”

[**Rep. Greg Steube
(R-FL):**](https://x.com/RepGregSteube/status/1890129797746921911) “I
thank President Trump for standing up for American workers with his bold
plan to restore balance and fairness to the marketplace. He and his
administration understand that our workers deserve trade policies that
are fair and beneficial to all.  For far too long, blue-collar
communities in the United States have been ripped off by foreign
competitors benefiting from manipulative trade practices. If other
countries believe they can continue to cheat the American people of
their share of prosperity, they are sadly mistaken. President Trump has
the right plan to secure our economy, restore fairness to international
trade, and bring back good-paying jobs to the United States.”

[**Rep. Beth Van Duyne
(R-TX):**](https://x.com/RepBethVanDuyne/status/1890123503900536995)
“American workers, farmers, and manufacturers finally have a President
who fights for them! I applaud President Trump’s plan to combat unfair
trade practices. Our best days are still ahead of us!”

[**House Republican Study
Committee:**](https://x.com/RepublicanStudy/status/1890117651856560622)
“The Trump administration just announced reciprocal tariffs for
countries like China that rip off the United States. It’s past time to
flip the script on this. President Trump is trying to restore fairness
in trade, ensuring that other countries are held to account for slapping
tariffs on American goods. Gone are the days of our great nation being
taken advantage of. Period.”

**President Trump’s plan to restore fairness and put American workers
first was met with immediate praise:**

[**Renewable Fuels
Association:**](https://ethanolrfa.org/media-and-news/category/news-releases/article/2025/02/rfa-thanks-president-trump-for-taking-action-to-counter-brazil-ethanol-tariff)
“For almost a decade now, we have spent precious time and resources
fighting back against an unfair and unjustified tariff regime imposed by
Brazil’s government on U.S. ethanol imports. What’s more ironic is that
these tariff barriers have been erected against U.S. ethanol imports
while our country has openly accepted—and even encouraged and
incentivized—ethanol imports from Brazil. As the two largest ethanol
producers on the planet, we long enjoyed a cooperative free-trade
relationship with Brazil involving ethanol, relying on each other when
there were shortfalls or disruptions in the U.S. or Brazilian
marketplace. However, that bilateral cooperation was abandoned by Brazil
in 2017, when they instituted a tariff rate quota scheme, and eventually
adopted a tariff in 2020. The Brazilian tariff on U.S. ethanol now
stands at 18 percent and has virtually eliminated all market access for
U.S. ethanol producers. We thank President Trump for taking this action
and hope this reciprocal tariff will help encourage a return to free and
fair ethanol trade relationship with Brazil.”

[**American Iron and Steel
Institute:**](https://www.steel.org/2025/02/aisi-statement-on-president-trumps-memo-on-reciprocal-trade/)
“AISI applauds President Trump’s action today ordering the development
of a comprehensive plan for restoring fairness in U.S. trade
relationships and countering non-reciprocal trading
arrangements. American steel producers know well the negative impact of
foreign unfair trade practices, including subsidies, currency
manipulation and other unfair and discriminatory policies and practices,
on domestic industries and their workers … We look forward to working
with the Secretary of Commerce, the U.S. Trade Representative and other
key administration officials as they develop their plan of action to
ensure reciprocity in international trade and to preserve the
competitiveness of the American steel industry and other sectors.”

[**Growth
Energy:**](https://growthenergy.org/2025/02/13/brazilian-trade-barriers/)
“While American biofuel producers have been almost entirely blocked off
from the Brazilian market, Brazilian producers have enjoyed unfettered
access to the U.S. In some cases, certain policies in the U.S. even
incentivize the use of imported Brazilian ethanol instead of ethanol
produced here in the U.S.,” said Growth Energy CEO Emily Skor. “This
runs contrary to putting America first, and is exactly why President
Trump is taking steps to address this issue. Thank you, President Trump
for taking action and pushing for a level playing field for American
ethanol producers.”

[**Small Business
Administration:**](https://x.com/SBAgov/status/1890148991288963525)
“President Trump is right: restoring a level playing field on trade will
unlock the next blue collar boom – creating jobs and powering our
economy through “Made in America.” Huge news for Main Street!”

[**Energy Secretary Chris
Wright:**](https://x.com/SecretaryWright/status/1890147412540637343)
“President’s Trump’s ‘Fair and Reciprocal Plan’ on trade puts the
American people first. As a former businessman, it’s great to see our
country being run like a business and fighting for fairness on trade–
it’s the American way!”

[**Secretary of the Interior Doug
Burgum:**](https://x.com/SecretaryBurgum/status/1890140996740030652)
“President Trump is making America strong again. His Fair and Reciprocal
Plan is commonsense: if you impose tariffs on us, we will impose tariffs
on you in return.”

[**Secretary of Transportation Sean
Duffy:**](https://x.com/SecDuffy/status/1890174374596301122) “Bravo,
President Trump! Thank you for announcing the Fair and Reciprocal Plan,
which is based on legislation we worked on together in your first term.
Unfair trade practices have hurt America’s transportation and
infrastructure sectors for too long. President Trump’s trade plan will
strengthen supply chains, boost infrastructure investments, and expand
American transportation solutions. We promised a golden age of
transportation, and I will not rest until America’s transportation
system is great again!”

[**Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Scott
Turner:**](https://x.com/SecretaryTurner/status/1890142679377613310)
“For too long Washington has put foreign interests above Americans —
that ends today. @POTUS’ Fair and Reciprocal Plan will put American
workers on a level playing field.”

[**EPA Administrator Lee
Zeldin:**](https://x.com/epaleezeldin/status/1890149078396539174) “The
American people elected @POTUS with a mandate to grow our economy and
bring back American manufacturing. When it comes to Reciprocal tariffs,
no one should ever underestimate President Trump’s vision, long game,
and determination to deliver the Great American Comeback.”

[**Speaker Mike Johnson
(R-LA):**](https://x.com/SpeakerJohnson/status/1890120154488447207) “For
too long, foreign countries have exploited America through unfair trade
practices. President Trump’s reciprocal tariffs aim to confront these
countries, protecting American workers and businesses through trade that
is fair again. The Trump policies are focused on leveling the playing
field and putting America FIRST.”

[**Sen. Jim Banks
(R-IN):**](https://x.com/SenatorBanks/status/1890125230523216292) “The
globalist approach to trade threw our workers under a bus driven by
their foreign competitors. President Trump’s America First trade plan
corrects this injustice that our industries and workers have faced for
decades. The reciprocal tariffs announced today will bring back fairness
and prosperity and stop Americans from being taken advantage of.”

[**Sen. Marsha Blackburn
(R-TN):**](https://x.com/MarshaBlackburn/status/1890111825192288655)
“President Trump is putting American workers and farmers first. He will
end unfair trade deals and prioritize goods made in America! With
President Trump at the negotiating table, we are going to get the best
possible deal.”

[**Sen. Lindsey Graham
(R-SC):**](https://x.com/LindseyGrahamSC/status/1890131741232201839)
“Most countries charge us far more in tariffs than we charge them. Those
days are over. I applaud President Trump’s decision to impose reciprocal
tariffs against our trading partners. Whatever tariffs they put on
American products, we will put on their products. This will be a game
changer. Simple and brilliant.”

[**Sen. Roger Marshall
(R-KS):**](https://x.com/RogerMarshallMD/status/1890131872979591306)
“Gone are the days of unfair trade deals that give foreign nations the
upper hand. Today, President Trump put the world on notice: America will
no longer be taken advantage of.”

**Sen. Pete Ricketts (R-NE):** “The average weighted tariff on foreign
products coming into the U.S. is 1.5%, yet the average tariff on U.S.
products globally is 6%. President Trump promised to bring those numbers
closer to balance. These tariffs are a step toward accomplishing that
goal.”

[**Sen. Rick Scott
(R-FL):**](https://x.com/SenRickScott/status/1890117931121668256)
“President Trump’s fight for a level playing field and reciprocal
treatment is common sense. The U.S. is done treating others better than
they’re treating us. President Trump understands the art of the deal,
and thanks to his strong leadership, we’re getting better deals that
will help our businesses and grow our economy!”

[**Sen. Tommy Tuberville
(R-AL):**](https://x.com/SenTuberville/status/1890124707082727838)
“President Trump is brokering deals that put American farmers,
manufacturers, and producers first. America has some of the best and
brightest manufacturers and there’s no reason we can’t produce most
things right here at home.”

[**Majority Whip Tom Emmer
(R-MN):**](https://x.com/GOPMajorityWhip/status/1890135775498629305)
“The master negotiator strikes again. @POTUS is realigning the playing
field with countries that have taken advantage of us for far too long
and delivering on his promise to put America FIRST.”

[**Chairwoman Lisa McClain
(R-MI):**](https://x.com/RepLisaMcClain/status/1890115111064596626)
“President Trump is wasting no time leveling the playing field. I am
optimistic the pressure applied by the ongoing tariff negotiations will
lead to a wave of investment across the U.S. @POTUS is keeping his
promise to put our economy first.”

[**Ways and Means Committee Chair Jason Smith
(R-MO):**](https://x.com/RepJasonSmith/status/1890119422670688429)
“President Trump understands that American workers and manufacturers can
outcompete those of any other nation. But for far too long they have
been held back by a lack of reciprocity because other countries impose
much higher tariffs and other barriers than the United States imposes on
imports. President Trump’s Executive Order helps deliver a level playing
field for American workers and manufacturers.”

[**Rep. Carlos Gimenez
(R-FL):**](https://x.com/RepCarlos/status/1890119277573026153)
“President Trump has just announced RECIPROCAL TARIFFS for countries
unfairly treating American products! If you want to sell to the USA, we
must have access to your market as well. What is fair, is fair!”

[**Rep. Byron Donalds
(R-FL):**](https://x.com/RepDonaldsPress/status/1890120064516661501) “We
will no longer tolerate being ripped-off by the rest of the world. Under
President Trump, government is putting the American people first again.
And that means RECIPROCAL TARIFFS”

[**Rep. Randy Feenstra
(R-IA):**](https://x.com/RepFeenstra/status/1890131271181111432) “Brazil
imposes an 18% tariff on U.S. ethanol while we only charge Brazil 2.5%.
In 2024, that imbalance resulted in our nation importing $200 million in
Brazilian ethanol while Brazil only imported $52 million in U.S.
ethanol. Our farmers deserve better!”

[**Rep. Andy Harris
(R-MD):**](https://x.com/RepAndyHarrisMD/status/1890116710726091147)
“The days of America being taken advantage of are over. The “Fair and
Reciprocal Plan” will put the American worker first and bring fairness
back to international trade.”

[**Rep. Diana Harshbarger
(R-TN):**](https://x.com/RepHarshbarger/status/1890112573942759520) “Our
nation has been at the bad end of business deals regarding trade
practices with other countries for far too long. That’s coming to an
end. President Trump’s reciprocal tariffs are putting the world on
notice — the gravy train is over, and we won’t be taken advantage of
anymore.”

[**Rep. Kevin Hern
(R-OK):**](https://x.com/repkevinhern/status/1890118251532939747)
“President Trump is a strong leader – he’s not allowing the world to
take advantage of the United States any longer. These reciprocal tariffs
will incentivize other nations to level the playing field and remove
long-standing, exorbitant tariffs. America FIRST!”

[**Rep. Riley Moore
(R-WV):**](https://x.com/RepRileyMoore/status/1890123804019708120)
“President Trump just announced plans to implement reciprocal tariffs on
the foreign countries who are ripping us off. I’m proud to be leading
this effort in Congress.”

[**Rep. Greg Steube
(R-FL):**](https://x.com/RepGregSteube/status/1890129797746921911) “I
thank President Trump for standing up for American workers with his bold
plan to restore balance and fairness to the marketplace. He and his
administration understand that our workers deserve trade policies that
are fair and beneficial to all.  For far too long, blue-collar
communities in the United States have been ripped off by foreign
competitors benefiting from manipulative trade practices. If other
countries believe they can continue to cheat the American people of
their share of prosperity, they are sadly mistaken. President Trump has
the right plan to secure our economy, restore fairness to international
trade, and bring back good-paying jobs to the United States.”

[**Rep. Beth Van Duyne
(R-TX):**](https://x.com/RepBethVanDuyne/status/1890123503900536995)
“American workers, farmers, and manufacturers finally have a President
who fights for them! I applaud President Trump’s plan to combat unfair
trade practices. Our best days are still ahead of us!”

[**House Republican Study
Committee:**](https://x.com/RepublicanStudy/status/1890117651856560622)
“The Trump administration just announced reciprocal tariffs for
countries like China that rip off the United States. It’s past time to
flip the script on this. President Trump is trying to restore fairness
in trade, ensuring that other countries are held to account for slapping
tariffs on American goods. Gone are the days of our great nation being
taken advantage of. Period.”
