---
date: '2025-02-19'
published_time: 2025-02-19 20:57:20-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/2025/02/national-energy-dominance-council-paves-way-for-unleashing-american-energy/
tags: articles
title: National Energy Dominance Council Paves Way for Unleashing American Energy
---
 
Last week, President Donald J. Trump
[established](https://www.whitehouse.gov/fact-sheets/2025/02/fact-sheet-president-donald-j-trump-establishes-the-national-energy-dominance-council/)
the National Energy Dominance Council — a cornerstone in the Trump
Administration’s pursuit of unleashing American energy. Led by Secretary
of the Interior Doug Burgum and Secretary of Energy Chris Wright, the
Council will play a key role in the Trump Administration’s work to lower
energy prices, meet the rising demand for affordable energy, strengthen
economic security, and ensure the American energy industry is best
positioned as a global leader over the next century.

**The move was hailed by lawmakers, workers, and industry:**

[**House Committee on Energy and Commerce Chair Brett Guthrie
(R-KY)**](https://energycommerce.house.gov/posts/chairman-guthrie-commends-the-creation-of-the-national-energy-dominance-council)**:**
“Energy security is national security. By utilizing our domestic energy
resources to create baseload power, we can lower prices, secure our
grid, and provide the energy needed to grow manufacturing, heat our
homes, and fill our gas tanks. The creation of this council under the
leadership of Secretary Wright and Secretary Burgum is a strong step
toward securing our energy future, and ensuring we have the resources
necessary to meet the demands that AI will place on our grid. President
Trump is continuing to fulfill his promise to the American people to
return our nation to energy dominance, and I look forward to working
together to achieve that goal.”

[**American Exploration and Production
Council**](https://axpc.org/2025/02/14/axpc-statement-on-creation-of-national-energy-dominance-council/)**:**
“Our nation is stronger, more secure, and more prosperous when America
is the world leader in energy production, and AXPC applauds the Trump
administration’s recognition that a whole of government approach is
necessary to address the challenges related to American energy
dominance. Sound energy policy across agencies will support our ability
to meet rising national and global demand for affordable, reliable
energy. We will continue to work with Congress and the Trump
administration and the new National Energy Dominance Council on
sensible, durable policies that allow American energy companies to
continue to innovate and produce the energy America needs.”

[**North America’s Building Trades
Unions**](https://www.nabtu.org/press_releases/nabtu-statement-on-national-energy-dominance-council/)**:**
“North America’s Building Trades Unions look forward to engaging with
the National Energy Dominance Council recently established by the White
House. This effort, chaired by Secretary of the Interior Doug Burgum and
vice-chaired by Secretary of Energy Chris Wright, comes at a critical
moment for our nation. As our country’s energy demands continue to rise
and we work to meet the needs of artificial intelligence, confront
rising adversarial powers, and provide our citizenry with stable and
affordable energy, we at NABTU are ready to meet the moment. The men and
women of the Building Trades have built the existing energy
infrastructure of this nation and are eager to partner with this Council
to provide the highly skilled workforce necessary to advance America’s
all-of-the-above energy strategy and bring about the next generation of
expanded, domestic and affordable power supply.”

[**National Rural Electric Cooperative Association CEO Jim
Matheson**](https://www.electric.coop/americas-electric-cooperatives-applaud-formation-of-the-national-energy-dominance-council)**:**
“We are thrilled that President Trump has established the National
Energy Dominance Council to tackle some of the biggest energy policy
challenges facing our nation. Electricity demand is skyrocketing, yet
due to bad policy decisions, always-available baseload power is being
forced to retire before it can be reliably replaced. As a result, much
of the country faces an increased risk of energy shortfalls over the
next decade. Under the leadership of Chairman Doug Burgum and Vice
Chairman Chris Wright, the Council is perfectly positioned to address
the growing threats to reliable and affordable power. We believe the
Executive Order’s focus on improving key processes, including those for
permitting, producing and distributing American energy, is exactly the
right place to start.”

**United Association of Union Plumbers and Pipefitters General President
Mark McManus:** “The men and women of the United Association are the
best trained and most highly skilled craftspeople in the energy
industry, and for generations we have built the critical infrastructure
that delivers affordable domestic energy to our homes and businesses
across the nation. We are now poised to deliver the next generation of
energy production at this critical point in our nation’s history, but
all too often government red tape and environmental activist groups
stand in the way of these good paying and family-sustaining jobs. We
look forward to working with President Trump and the new National Energy
Dominance Council to cut government red tape and modernize our
permitting processes to boost domestic production of critical energy
like oil, gas, hydrogen, carbon capture, and nuclear, and to reduce our
dependence on foreign sources of energy.”

[**Power The Future Executive Director Daniel
Turner**](https://powerthefuture.com/president-trump-announces-the-national-energy-dominance-council/)**:**
“The National Energy Dominance Council is a long-overdue course
correction that prioritizes American energy workers, revitalizes
domestic production, and ensures affordability for families. The NEDC
has the opportunity to right the many wrongs of the Biden
administration’s failures by working alongside the private sector to
create policies that increase production, drive down costs, and protect
the environment. By cutting through burdensome regulations and
anti-energy mandates, the NEDC will unleash America’s full energy
potential and pave the way for an era of prosperity, affordability, and
innovation.”

[**National Association of Manufacturers President Jay
Timmons**](https://nam.org/manufacturers-national-energy-dominance-council-shows-president-trumps-commitment-to-american-energy-leadership-and-manufacturing-growth-33293/?stream=series-press-releases)**:**
“President Trump is moving quickly to unleash America’s full energy
potential by establishing the National Energy Dominance Council, setting
America up to lead on energy and secure our energy independence. This
action demonstrates President Trump and his administration’s commitment
to ensuring manufacturers have the energy they need to drive economic
growth. \[…\] The National Energy Dominance Council, under the
leadership of Interior Secretary Burgum and Energy Secretary Wright,
will help power the future of manufacturing in America because when
manufacturing wins, America wins.”

[**Competitive Enterprise Institute Senior Fellow Marlo
Lewis**](https://cei.org/news_releases/cei-applauds-launch-of-president-trumps-national-energy-dominance-council/)**:**
“This is welcome news. Unlike the previous administration, which
increased US reliance on oil imports from OPEC and critical minerals
from China by rigging domestic markets against reliable energy from
fossil fuels, President Trump seeks to emancipate all sources of
reliable American energy to compete in domestic and overseas markets.
The president also seeks to accelerate the permitting of new energy
infrastructure, including the power plants needed to support hundreds of
new data centers and US leadership in artificial intelligence. President
Trump is correct that clearing away impediments to America’s global
leadership in energy production and exports will lower energy prices,
enhance US economic security, create millions of new well-paying jobs,
and strengthen US competitiveness in advanced technologies such as AI.”

[**Growth
Energy**](https://x.com/GrowthEnergy/status/1891885351733547320)**:**
“#ICYMI last week @POTUS established the National Energy Dominance
Council, noting that \#biofuels ‘reduce our dependency on foreign
imports, and grow our economy’ – \#ethanol producers are ready to
deliver for American consumers and the president’s priorities!”

[**Small Business and Entrepreneurship
Council**](https://sbecouncil.org/2025/02/17/sbe-council-applauds-president-trumps-national-energy-dominance-council-eo/)**:**
“The National Energy Dominance Council is greatly needed to promptly
reduce onerous barriers and rules that work against an abundant energy
supply. Rather than federal government agencies finding ways to expand
their regulatory turf and stymie the energy sector, the Council is
tasked with reducing outdated red tape and moving with speed on
recommendations and action, which will facilitate the significant
investment needed for big projects. A modern regulatory system and
commitment to U.S. energy supremacy will generate quality jobs, economic
vibrancy and growth, and innovations that will yield efficiencies and
cleaner energy. As both energy consumers and as significant players in
the U.S. energy sector, small businesses will greatly benefit. SBE
Council thanks President Trump for prioritizing this critical sector and
for his commitment to more affordable, reliable and abundant energy for
America.”

[**Americans for
Prosperity**](https://americansforprosperity.org/policy-corner/president-trump-establishes-national-energy-dominance-council/)**:**
“Coupled with earlier Executive Orders signed by President Trump, with
this Order, the current administration is well on its way in laying the
groundwork for a future where energy abundance can become a reality. 
Americans for Prosperity applauds President Trump’s actions in this
Executive Order and anticipates a bright future for energy production in
this country.”
