---
date: '2023-11-15'
modified_time: 2023-11-15 12:00:17-05:00
published_time: 2023-11-15 05:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/blog/2023/11/15/job-gains-in-construction-after-two-years-of-the-bipartisan-infrastructure-law/
tags: blog
title: "Job Gains in Construction After Two Years of the Bipartisan Infrastructure\_\
  Law"
---
 
*Heather Boushey, Chief Economist, Investing in America Cabinet*

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Two years ago, President Biden signed into law the [Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law](https://www.whitehouse.gov/build/guidebook/), which
makes historic and
[much](https://www.nhtsa.gov/press-releases/traffic-crash-death-estimates-2022)–[needed](https://infrastructurereportcard.org/)
investments in improving transportation infrastructure, modernizing the
electric grid, expanding access to high-speed internet, cleaning up
legacy pollution, replacing lead pipes, and building a clean energy
economy. The law also includes Build America, Buy America requirements
to ensure the domestic manufacturing of construction materials including
iron and steel and to incentivize the domestic production of [electric
vehicle charging
stations](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/02/15/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-new-standards-and-major-progress-for-a-made-in-america-national-network-of-electric-vehicle-chargers/),
[fiber optic
cable](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/08/03/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-high-speed-internet-investments-spur-made-in-america-manufacturing-boom/)
for high-speed internet, and [water infrastructure
parts](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/06/22/fact-sheethistoric-biden-%e2%81%a0harris-administration-investments-in-water-infrastructure-and-lead-pipe-replacement-are-creating-new-domestic-manufacturing-job/).
In the short run,
[researchers](https://repeatproject.org/policies/iija?comparison=benchmark&state=national&categories=labor&page=1&limit=25)
[have](https://www.artba.org/wp-content/uploads/federal-investment/iija/ARTBA_EIA_IIJA_Report_Sept2021.pdf)
[projected](https://www.mckinsey.com/industries/public-and-social-sector/our-insights/will-a-labor-crunch-derail-plans-to-upgrade-us-infrastructure)
[that](https://files.epi.org/uploads/235941.pdf)
[the](https://www.moodysanalytics.com/-/media/article/2021/macroeconomic-consequences-of-the-infrastructure-investment-and-jobs-act-and-build-back-better-framework.pdf)
law will support hundreds of thousands of jobs, primarily in
construction and manufacturing. In the long run, the law is designed to
enhance
[productivity](https://www.whitehouse.gov/cea/written-materials/2021/11/06/bringing-infrastructure-into-the-21st-century/)
and deliver broad-based economic
[growth](https://www.whitehouse.gov/cea/written-materials/2021/11/15/the-time-is-now-to-modernize-u-s-infrastructure/).

While many of the economic benefits of the legislation will play out
over the coming years and decades, job gains in construction industries
suggest that some benefits have already begun to emerge.

The construction sector is highly cyclical, with employment growing
during economic expansions and declining during recessions. Consistent
with this trend, the economy has added 670,000 jobs in construction
since President Biden took office in January 2021—an average of 20,000
jobs per month. This is a slightly faster pace than in the years before
the pandemic, with some sub-sectors—heavy and civil engineering and
construction of buildings—seeing much faster growth than pre-pandemic.
Employment in the construction sector has exceeded the pre-Great
Recession high for the first time, with last month setting a new record
high going back to the start of the data in 1939.

Job gains in the construction industry are particularly beneficial to
American workers, as these jobs tend to be relatively
[high-paying](https://www.bls.gov/news.release/empsit.t19.htm). The
Biden-Harris Administration has taken steps to further improve the
quality of these jobs, such as by
[requiring](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/02/04/executive-order-on-use-of-project-labor-agreements-for-federal-construction-projects/)
the use of project labor agreements for large-scale federal construction
projects and updating the [Davis Bacon Prevailing Wage
Rule](https://www.dol.gov/newsroom/releases/whd/whd20230808) for the
first time in nearly 40 years, raising pay for more than one million
construction workers over time.

To better understand recent developments in construction employment and
the effects of the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, this blog explores two
major sub-industries of the construction sector: heavy and civil
engineering and construction of buildings. It identifies unusually rapid
job gains in both industries, largely driven in recent months by
employment growth in highway, street, and bridge construction and in
nonresidential building construction. These developments are consistent
with the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law’s success in creating good jobs
for American workers in construction.

## **Employment in Heavy and Civil Engineering**

The [heavy and civil engineering
industry](https://www.bls.gov/iag/tgs/iag237.htm) comprises
establishments that work on engineering projects, such as building
utility systems, roads, bridges, and transit. Employment gains in this
industry, especially road and bridge construction (which is often funded
by the federal government), provide a good initial indicator of the
effects of the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law.

In the latest data, since the President took office, overall employment
in heavy and civil engineering was at a series high (data go back to
1990). Since the start of the Administration, the sector has added
92,400 jobs, with much of the recent growth coming from employment in
highway, street, and bridge construction (Figure 1).

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/11/figure1-1.png?w=640"
class="wp-image-87773" decoding="async" loading="lazy"
sizes="(max-width: 1954px) 100vw, 1954px"
srcset="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/11/figure1-1.png 1954w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/11/figure1-1.png?resize=615,396 615w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/11/figure1-1.png?resize=768,494 768w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/11/figure1-1.png?resize=1270,817 1270w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/11/figure1-1.png?resize=1536,988 1536w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/11/figure1-1.png?resize=497,320 497w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/11/figure1-1.png?resize=995,640 995w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/11/figure1-1.png?resize=1038,668 1038w"
width="1954" height="1257" />
</figure>

Looking at the more detailed sub-sectors, since January 2021, the
highway, street, and bridge construction industry has added 38,300 jobs,
37,600 of which were added after the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law was
signed into law in November 2021 (Figure 2). In January 2023, employment
in highway, street, and bridge construction finally surpassed its
pre-Great Recession high, continuing to grow since and setting a new
series high (data go back to 1990) in the latest data. This pace of job
growth is notably strong; whereas from 2011-2019, the industry added an
average of 700 jobs per month, over the past year, it has added four
times that amount—2,800 jobs per month.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/11/figure2.png?w=640"
class="wp-image-87769" decoding="async" loading="lazy"
sizes="(max-width: 2010px) 100vw, 2010px"
srcset="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/11/figure2.png 2010w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/11/figure2.png?resize=615,341 615w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/11/figure2.png?resize=768,426 768w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/11/figure2.png?resize=1270,705 1270w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/11/figure2.png?resize=1536,853 1536w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/11/figure2.png?resize=576,320 576w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/11/figure2.png?resize=1153,640 1153w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/11/figure2.png?resize=700,390 700w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/11/figure2.png?resize=1038,576 1038w"
width="2010" height="1116" />
</figure>

## **Employment in the Construction of Buildings**

The [construction of buildings
industry](https://www.bls.gov/iag/tgs/iag236.htm) is composed of
establishments that are primarily responsible for the construction of
buildings, including new construction, additions, alterations,
maintenance and repairs. It is typically subdivided into *residential*
building construction (single-family and multi-family homes) and
*nonresidential* building construction (factories, offices, airports,
warehouses, and more). Job gains in the construction of buildings,
particularly nonresidential buildings like manufacturing facilities,
airports, bus terminals, factories, and warehouses, suggest progress
with implementing the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and the rest of the
President’s [Investing in America
agenda](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/07/14/the-economics-of-investing-in-america/).

Like heavy and civil engineering, the industry has seen striking gains
in recent years. Since January 2021, the industry has added 187,000
jobs, with job gains roughly evenly split between residential building
construction (93,000) and nonresidential building construction (94,000).
Whereas initial employment gains in building construction were driven by
residential building, gains since mid-2022 have been driven by increases
in nonresidential construction (Figure 3). Notably, as shown in Figure
4, nonresidential building construction employment has now reached a
series high (data go back to 1990). The pace of job gains in
nonresidential building construction also exceeds that of previous
periods of growth; over the last year, nonresidential building
construction has added an average of 3,800 jobs per month, well above
the average between 2011 and 2019 of 1,800 and the average between 2004
and 2007 of 2,200. Notably, these job gains have come as spending on the
construction of manufacturing facilities has hit [record
highs](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/blog/2023/08/16/the-economics-of-public-investment-crowding-in-private-investment/).

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/11/figure3.png?w=640"
class="wp-image-87770" decoding="async" loading="lazy"
sizes="(max-width: 1920px) 100vw, 1920px"
srcset="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/11/figure3.png 1920w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/11/figure3.png?resize=615,380 615w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/11/figure3.png?resize=768,474 768w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/11/figure3.png?resize=1270,784 1270w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/11/figure3.png?resize=1536,948 1536w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/11/figure3.png?resize=518,320 518w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/11/figure3.png?resize=1037,640 1037w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/11/figure3.png?resize=1038,641 1038w"
width="1920" height="1185" />
</figure>

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/11/figure4.png?w=640"
class="wp-image-87771" decoding="async" loading="lazy"
sizes="(max-width: 1785px) 100vw, 1785px"
srcset="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/11/figure4.png 1785w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/11/figure4.png?resize=615,361 615w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/11/figure4.png?resize=768,451 768w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/11/figure4.png?resize=1270,746 1270w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/11/figure4.png?resize=1536,902 1536w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/11/figure4.png?resize=545,320 545w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/11/figure4.png?resize=1090,640 1090w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/11/figure4.png?resize=1038,609 1038w"
width="1785" height="1048" />
</figure>

## **Conclusion**

Strong employment growth in two critical sub-industries of construction
indicate that the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law is already taking effect
by stimulating demand for high-paying construction jobs that are
rebuilding our nation’s roads, bridges, pipes, and more. Moving forward,
investments in workforce development will help meet this demand and
increase access to the industry for underrepresented groups. President
Biden’s Bipartisan Infrastructure Law newly enabled states to invest in
workforce development using their highway formula funds, which total
nearly $250 billion over five years. More than half of states are
already taking advantage of this flexibility, investing $39 million to
prepare their workforces for high-quality jobs in construction and other
transportation-related occupations.

Moreover, developments in construction employment are just one measure
of how implementation of the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law has
progressed in the last two years, reflecting only a subset of the
near-term benefits of infrastructure investment. Since President Biden
took office, the Administration has announced nearly [$400
billion](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/11/09/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-celebrates-historic-progress-in-rebuilding-america-ahead-of-two-year-anniversary-of-bipartisan-infrastructure-law/)
in public infrastructure and clean energy investments, with 40,000
infrastructure projects moving forward. Economic research suggests that
as these infrastructure investments continue to progress, additional
benefits for American families—including increased
[productivity](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/0304393289900470)
and economic
[growth](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/joes.12037)—will
emerge.
