---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-05-06'
modified_time: 2021-05-06 17:31:56-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/05/06/a-proclamation-on-military-spouse-appreciation-day-2021/
published_time: 2021-05-06 17:31:55-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on Military Spouse Appreciation Day,\_2021"
---
 
As the members of our Armed Forces safeguard our Nation at home and
around the world, they depend on the people they love for strength,
comfort, joy, and stability.  Military spouses may not always wear a
uniform, but they serve and sacrifice alongside their service members
and keep our military strong.  On Military Spouse Appreciation Day, we
recognize and thank the military spouses who serve our Nation and are
critical to our national security.

     Military families are proud of the lives they build.  Spouses
understand that loving a service member means facing the challenges that
can accompany their service:  from leaving friends behind to changing
jobs again; making parenting decisions alone to losing sleep at night;
deployments to homecomings to more deployments.  Those challenges have
been magnified by the COVID-19 pandemic, which has led to lost income,
fewer childcare options, and extended deployments.  Still, military
spouses have done what they do best:  adapt, persevere, and keep going.

     When someone you love is hurting, you hurt with them.  When your
spouse is at home, trying to make ends meet, or is torn between taking
care of your children and keeping a job, your heart breaks too.  Service
members cannot focus on their mission if their families do not have what
they need to thrive at home, and we cannot expect to retain even the
most dedicated service members if they are forced to choose between
their love of country and the hopes and dreams they have for their
families.  That is why supporting military spouses is critical to
keeping our Nation safe.

     On Military Spouse Appreciation Day, we recognize the importance of
empowering spouses and ensuring they have the necessary tools and
resources to thrive in all facets of their lives, including in the
community, in the workforce, and at home.

     My Administration is dedicated to supporting our Nation’s military
spouses.  Through the First Lady’s work with *Joining Forces*, the White
House has committed to supporting military and veteran families,
caregivers, and survivors through economic and entrepreneurship
opportunities, support for military child education, and health and
wellbeing resources.  Launched in 2011 as part of *Joining Forces*, the
Department of Defense’s Military Spouse Employment Partnership now
includes more than 500 companies, nonprofit organizations, and Federal
agencies that are committed to recruiting, hiring, promoting, and
retaining military spouses.  Since its inception, the Partnership has
supported more than 180,000 military spouses.  *Joining Forces* will
continue to convene and collaborate with Federal agency partners,
nonprofit organizations, corporate stakeholders, and service providers
to develop comprehensive, meaningful, and long-term solutions to address
the holistic well-being of military and veteran families, caregivers,
and survivors.  And, *Joining Forces* calls upon on all Americans to
support and harness the special skills, strengths, and experiences
of military spouses.

     Today, we pause to salute the women and men who do so much to
support our troops, invest in our communities, and sacrifice for our
country.  Their strength and resilience are essential to the
recruitment, retention, and readiness of our fighting forces and,
indeed, to the strength of our Nation.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim May
7, 2021, as Military Spouse Appreciation Day.  I call upon the people of
the United States to honor military spouses with appropriate ceremonies
and activities.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this sixth day of
May, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty‑one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-fifth.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
