---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-05-05'
modified_time: 2021-05-05 18:32:31-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/05/05/a-proclamation-on-national-day-of-prayer/
published_time: 2021-05-05 18:32:02-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on National Day Of\_Prayer"
---
 
Throughout our history, Americans of many religions and belief systems
have turned to prayer for strength, hope, and guidance.  Prayer has
nourished countless souls and powered moral movements — including
essential fights against racial injustice, child labor, and infringement
on the rights of disabled Americans.  Prayer is also a daily practice
for many, whether it is to ask for help or strength, or to give thanks
over blessings bestowed.

The First Amendment to our Constitution protects the rights of free
speech and religious liberty, including the right of all Americans to
pray.  These freedoms have helped us to create and sustain a Nation of
remarkable religious vitality and diversity across the generations.  

Today, we remember and celebrate the role that the healing balm of
prayer can play in our lives and in the life of our Nation.  As we
continue to confront the crises and challenges of our time — from a
deadly pandemic, to the loss of lives and livelihoods in its wake, to a
reckoning on racial justice, to the existential threat of climate change
— Americans of faith can call upon the power of prayer to provide hope
and uplift us for the work ahead.  As the late Congressman John Lewis
once said, “Nothing can stop the power of a committed and determined
people to make a difference in our society.  Why?  Because human beings
are the most dynamic link to the divine on this planet.”

On this National Day of Prayer, we unite with purpose and resolve, and
recommit ourselves to the core freedoms that helped define and guide our
Nation from its earliest days.  We celebrate our incredible good fortune
that, as Americans, we can exercise our convictions freely — no matter
our faith or beliefs.  Let us find in our prayers, however they are
delivered, the determination to overcome adversity, rise above our
differences, and come together as one Nation to meet this moment in
history.

The Congress, by Public Law 100-307, as amended, has called on the
President to issue each year a proclamation designating the first
Thursday in May as a “National Day of Prayer.”

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim May 6, 2021, as a
National Day of Prayer.  I invite the citizens of our Nation to give
thanks, in accordance with their own faiths and consciences, for our
many freedoms and blessings, and I join all people of faith in prayers
for spiritual guidance, mercy, and protection.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this fifth day of May,
in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the Independence
of the United States of America the two hundred and forty-fifth.

  
                              JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
