---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-05-14'
modified_time: 2021-05-14 17:08:28-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/05/14/a-proclamation-on-emergency-medical-services-week-2021/
published_time: 2021-05-14 17:08:27-04:00
title: A Proclamation on Emergency Medical Services Week, 2021
---
 
Every day, in communities across the country, Emergency Medical Service
(EMS) providers put themselves on the line to save lives, safeguard
dangerous situations, and deliver hope to families and communities in
crisis.  With selflessness, professionalism, and grace under fire, they
provide essential care — never more so than during our battle with
COVID-19 over the past year.  This year’s Emergency Medical Services
Week theme, “THIS IS EMS:  Caring for Our Communities,” honors our
heroic frontline workers who provide vital emergency medical care and
ease the burden of crisis for Americans in need of help.

Through service, compassion, and dedication, EMS providers represent the
very best of the American spirit.  In the face of unprecedented
challenges, their expertise, endurance, and hard work have been a
literal lifeline for families in every community.  Whether responding to
the enormous suffering caused by COVID-19, the devastation of extreme
climate events, or daily medical emergencies, EMS providers — many of
whom are volunteers — prepare, sacrifice, and put others ahead of
themselves.  Not only do they assume the heightened risks associated
with emergency care during a pandemic, but they also spend countless
hours away from families and friends in order to serve their
communities.

In the face of these challenges, EMS providers have not hesitated to
take on new roles, including supporting COVID-19 testing, therapeutics,
and vaccination sites.  To help support the women and men who do this
vital work, my American Rescue Plan included $100 million to support the
mental well-being — including the mental health — of our health care
professionals, paraprofessionals, public safety officers, and EMS
providers.  My Administration has also made it a priority to ensure that
our State, local, Tribal, and territorial partners have the resources
they need so that EMS providers are trained and equipped to respond to
public health emergencies safely and effectively, now and in the future.

During Emergency Medical Services Week, we extend our deepest gratitude
to all EMS providers.  Their courage, selflessness, and commitment are
extraordinary examples of what it means to serve this great country.  We
also extend our sincere condolences to the loved ones of EMS providers
who have given their lives in the line of duty.  This week and every
week, I urge all Americans to express their appreciation for our
Nation’s EMS providers — and to bring greater safety to their lives, and
to all of our lives, by getting vaccinated to help bring an end to the
COVID-19 pandemic.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim May 16 through May
22, 2021, as Emergency Medical Services Week.  I call upon public
officials, doctors, nurses, paramedics, Emergency Medical Service
providers, and all the people of the United States to observe this week
with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this fourteenth day of
May, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-fifth.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
