---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-05-14'
modified_time: 2021-05-14 17:07:31-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/05/14/a-proclamation-on-world-trade-week-2021/
published_time: 2021-05-14 17:07:30-04:00
title: A Proclamation on World Trade Week, 2021
---
 
When the COVID-19 pandemic struck, it not only inflicted an enormous
toll on American lives and livelihoods — it brought unprecedented
disruption to the global economy as well.  That disruption represents a
major threat to workers and employers in every community who rely on
trade to grow jobs here at home, from small businesses that sell their
goods to customers overseas, to major United States industries that
depend on imported components in the products they make in America.  As
we work to defeat the pandemic and build back better, World Trade Week
reminds us of the important role that global trade plays in creating
jobs and strengthening the United States economy — and of our
responsibility to pursue trade policies that center on American workers.

The United States can out-compete any country in the world.  We have all
the skills and strengths that we need to win the competition for the
future, including a fiercely innovative and productive workforce.  And
if we make the smart investments to hone our competitive edge, no nation
will be able to match us.  That is why my Administration is not only
focused on creating millions of good-paying jobs here at home, and
supporting America’s working families, we are committed to making the
single biggest investment in American innovation and competitiveness
since World War II.  Through the American Jobs Plan and the American
Families Plan, we will be taking on four major challenges to fortify our
foundation:  strengthening our industrial and innovation base to ensure
that the future is made in America; investing in sustainable
infrastructure and laying the foundation for a clean energy future;
investing in our caring economy to ease the burden of care on working
families; and advancing racial equity across the board to ensure that
Americans in every community see the benefits of a revitalized economy
and United States leadership on the world economic stage.

To support those efforts, we are committed to strengthening existing
trade policies — and developing new ones aimed toward promoting
equitable growth, protecting workers’ rights, and advancing
environmental justice.  We are also holding our trade partners
accountable and ensuring that they do not gain competitive advantages by
violating workers’ rights or engaging in unfair trade practices.

Enforcing our Nation’s trade rules and ensuring a level playing field is
critical to making trade work for American workers and businesses.  The
United States is working bilaterally and multilaterally with our
partners to develop standards that support workers, reduce export
barriers, and hold accountable those who abuse and exploit the global
trading system.  We are working with international organizations to
implement reforms and address current challenges, including economic,
racial, and social inequities, as well as the climate crisis.

If we invest in America, and if we make sure that the United States and
our partners write the rules of the road when it comes to global trade,
then American factory workers, retail workers, farmers, ranchers, and
fishers in every community will have a better chance to earn their place
in the middle class and live lives of greater opportunity.  We will be
more competitive around the world — and stronger, more prosperous, and
more resilient here at home.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim May 16 through May
22, 2021, as World Trade Week.  I call upon all Americans to observe
this week and to celebrate with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and
activities.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this fourteenth day of
May, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-fifth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
