---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-05-06'
modified_time: 2021-05-06 14:48:13-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/05/06/domestic-policy-presidential-directive-1-dppd-1/
published_time: 2021-05-06 15:00:00-04:00
title: "Domestic Policy Presidential Directive \u2013 1\_(DPPD-1)"
---
 
MEMORANDUM FOR THE VICE PRESIDENT

               THE SECRETARY OF STATE

               THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY

               THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE

               THE ATTORNEY GENERAL

               THE SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR

               THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE

               THE SECRETARY OF COMMERCE

               THE SECRETARY OF LABOR

               THE SECRETARY OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

               THE SECRETARY OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT

               THE SECRETARY OF TRANSPORTATION

               THE SECRETARY OF ENERGY

               THE SECRETARY OF EDUCATION

               THE SECRETARY OF VETERANS AFFAIRS

               THE SECRETARY OF HOMELAND SECURITY

               THE ASSISTANT TO THE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF OF STAFF

               THE UNITED STATES TRADE REPRESENTATIVE

               THE ADMINISTRATOR OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY

               THE ADMINISTRATOR OF THE SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION

               THE DIRECTOR OF THE OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET

               THE CHAIR OF THE COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS

               THE DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL DRUG CONTROL POLICY

THE CHAIR OF THE COUNCIL ON ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY

               THE DIRECTOR OF THE OFFICE OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
POLICY

               THE ASSISTANT TO THE PRESIDENT FOR DOMESTIC POLICY

               THE ASSISTANT TO THE PRESIDENT FOR ECONOMIC POLICY

               THE ASSISTANT TO THE PRESIDENT AND NATIONAL SECURITY
ADVISOR

               THE COUNSEL TO THE PRESIDENT

               THE ASSISTANT TO THE PRESIDENT AND PRESS SECRETARY

               THE ASSISTANT TO THE PRESIDENT FOR LEGISLATIVE AFFAIRS

               THE ASSISTANT TO THE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF TECHNOLOGY
OFFICER OF THE UNITED STATES

          THE ASSISTANT TO THE PRESIDENT AND NATIONAL CLIMATE ADVISOR

          THE COORDINATOR OF THE COVID-19 RESPONSE

THE CO-CHAIRS OF THE GENDER POLICY COUNCIL

SUBJECT:       Organization of the Domestic Policy Council
                          System

To assist the President in carrying out his responsibilities in the area
of domestic policy, I hereby direct the establishment of a Domestic
Policy Council (DPC) system, consistent with Executive Order 12859 of
August 16, 1993 (Establishment of the Domestic Policy Council), and
organized as follows.

     Section 1.  Intent and Process.  Bringing greater dignity, equity,
opportunity, and prosperity to the day-to-day lives of all Americans
requires the mobilization and extensive coordination of a broad range of
executive departments and agencies (agencies) to tackle the profound and
multifaceted challenges our country faces and to seize the opportunities
before us.  Domestic policy, whether the related issues fall largely
within the purview of a single agency or implicate multiple agencies,
must be developed and coordinated through a systematic, evidence-driven
process that will ensure that all major priorities are addressed, the
views of all relevant agencies are considered, appropriate options are
analyzed, and all policies and programs are subject to regular review,
using to the extent possible clear metrics and timelines.  It is also
imperative that domestic, economic, climate, and national security
policy be aligned and mutually reinforcing to benefit the American
people.

To that end, the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy (APDP)
shall coordinate an interagency process that provides domestic policy
advice to the President and ensures that the President’s stated domestic
policy goals are effectively implemented.  This process will:

     (a)  identify priority issues, problems, and opportunities that
require Presidential policy guidance or decision;

     (b)  analyze the identified issues, problems, and opportunities
systematically, drawing on both governmental and non-governmental
sources of information through a rigorous process in which all relevant
viewpoints are taken into account;

     (c)  bring agencies together to identify and evaluate policy and
programmatic options;

     (d)  recommend new or modified policy initiatives for
consideration;

     (e)  clearly articulate Presidential policy, including budgetary
implications and implementation plans; and

     (f)  review on a regular basis the implementation, delivery, and
efficacy of domestic policies and programs, including the possible need
for any modifications or adjustments to achieve policy objectives.

The DPC shall lead interagency policy processes on a wide range of
issues, including but not limited to those related to health care and
public health; substance use disorders; racial equity and justice;
gender equity and justice; criminal justice reform; native affairs;
disability policy; LGBTQ+ policy; immigration; veterans; education;
faith-based and community initiatives; gun policy and community safety;
poverty reduction; domestic human trafficking; youth policy;
disadvantaged and marginalized communities; labor and workforce
development; the caregiving economy; agriculture; food security and
nutrition; rural, suburban, and urban affairs; housing; strengthening
American democracy; national service; the United States Postal Service;
and the census.  It shall also coordinate interagency processes to
support the work of various task forces, commissions, councils, and
other advisory or policymaking bodies that the President establishes to
address matters of domestic policy.

The DPC shall work in close coordination with the National Economic
Council, the National Security Council, the Office of Management and
Budget (OMB), the Gender Policy Council, the COVID-19 Response
Coordinator and Counselor to the President (COVID-19 Response
Coordinator), the White House Climate Office, and other White House
offices and officials to ensure integrated policymaking processes, as
appropriate.

     Sec. 2.  Domestic Policy Council Structure.  The Domestic Policy
Council shall have a four-tiered structure of interagency bodies
coordinated by the APDP to undertake policy development, ensure
implementation, and manage coordination with agencies as may be
required.  The system shall include the DPC chaired by the President; a
Principals Committee (PC); a Deputies Committee (DC); and Interagency
Policy Committees (IPCs).  The APDP may request DPC members and the
heads of other agencies to provide reports to ensure the effective
execution of policy, identification of possible policy modifications,
and advice to the President, as appropriate.  The Executive Secretary of
the DPC shall assist the APDP in performing these functions.

     (a)  The Interagency Policy Committees (IPCs) shall be the
day-to-day fora for interagency development, coordination, and review of
domestic policy.  They shall provide policy analysis for consideration
by the PC and DC and shall ensure timely responses to Presidential
policy direction.  The IPCs shall convene on a regular basis to generate
policy recommendations to the PC and DC as well as to coordinate and
review the implementation of Presidential decisions in their policy
areas.

The IPCs shall be composed of representatives from all relevant
agencies. Agencies with membership in the IPCs shall routinely be
represented in these meetings at a senior level by officials with
significant management and policymaking responsibilities.  The APDP
shall designate the agencies that shall be represented at each IPC
meeting and designate a Chair for each IPC from the DPC staff or one or
more of the involved agencies.  The IPC Chairs shall ensure that the
views and recommendations of all IPC members are fully and fairly
considered.  The APDP may request an agency to perform an interagency
Executive Secretary role to support the functioning of the IPC.  The DPC
staff shall determine the agenda for IPC meetings and, where
appropriate, prepare materials to assist the IPC’s deliberations.

     (b)  The Deputies Committee (DC) is the senior sub‑Cabinet forum
for coordination of domestic policy matters.  The DC shall meet
regularly to ensure that matters brought before the PC or the DPC are
properly analyzed and prepared for consideration.  The DC shall make
recommendations to the PC on policy goals, options, coordination, and
implementation, as appropriate.  The DC shall focus significant
attention on ensuring rigorous policy implementation, including through
regular reviews of the Administration’s major domestic policy
initiatives to ensure their implementation in a timely and effective
manner consistent with the President’s stated goals.  The DC shall also
recommend policy or programmatic modifications as necessary or
appropriate.

The DC shall be chaired by a Deputy Assistant to the President for
Domestic Policy.  Agency representation on the DC shall be at the Deputy
or Under Secretary level, or its equivalent, as appropriate for the
agenda.  The members of the DC shall be designees of the officials set
forth in the Annex of this memorandum, though participation in DC
meetings may vary according to the agenda.  Any agency may request an
invitation to attend a DC meeting on a particular issue through the
APDP.  The APDP may also request the support and involvement of other
agencies on an issue as necessary.  The Chair of the DC shall determine
the agenda in consultation with the other DC members and ensure that
appropriate materials are prepared to assist the DC’s deliberations.

     (c)  The Principals Committee (PC) shall be the senior forum for
consideration of domestic policy issues for advice and recommendation to
the President.  Based on guidance from the President, the PC shall
establish domestic policy priorities and processes to advance them.  The
PC shall develop options and recommendations for the President on
matters of domestic policy requiring his attention and shall set
priorities and provide coordination as appropriate on matters of policy
that do not require Presidential attention.  The PC shall review
the work of the DC and provide interagency coordination on domestic
policy formulation and implementation as may be appropriate and
consistent with law.

The APDP shall serve as Chair of the PC and convene the PC,
in consultation with the members of the PC and other Executive Office of
the President (EOP) Principals, as appropriate.  The APDP shall
determine the agenda in consultation with the other PC members and
ensure that appropriate materials are prepared to assist the PC in
its deliberations.

Participation in the PC shall be at the Cabinet level or its
equivalent.  Although agency participation in PC meetings shall vary in
accordance with the agenda and at the discretion of the APDP, any agency
may request an invitation to attend a meeting on a particular issue
through the APDP.  The heads of other agencies, along with additional
senior officials, shall be invited as appropriate.

The APDP shall ensure that the views and recommendations of all DPC
Principals are fully and fairly communicated to the President and the
Vice President.

     (d)  The Domestic Policy Council (DPC) established by Executive
Order 12859 shall be the principal forum for advising and assisting the
President in developing, integrating, and ensuring implementation of all
aspects of domestic policy affecting the United States and the American
people.  Along with its subordinate committees, the DPC shall be the
principal means for coordinating agencies in the development and
implementation of domestic policy to achieve the Administration’s policy
goals.

The DPC shall meet as required.  The APDP, at the President’s direction
and in consultation with other members of the DPC, shall be responsible
for determining the agenda, ensuring that appropriate papers are
prepared to assist the DPC’s deliberations, and conveying Presidential
decisions, guidance, and policy goals in a timely manner.

The membership of the DPC is set forth in the Annex of this memorandum. 
Participation in particular DPC meetings shall vary in accordance with
the agenda and at the discretion of the APDP.  However, any
Cabinet-level Principal may request through the APDP, an invitation to
attend a meeting on a particular issue.

     Sec. 3.  Executive Office of the President.  The Vice President may
be represented at DPC committee meetings at each level of the DPC
structure.

The Assistant to the President and Chief of Staff shall ensure that
necessary administrative and personnel support is provided to the DPC
staff and system, and may be represented at DPC committee meetings at
each level of the DPC structure.

The Office of Management and Budget shall be represented at DPC
committee meetings at each level of the DPC structure.  The Director of
OMB shall provide analytic and other support to the DPC policy
processes.

The Counsel to the President shall designate senior lawyers in the
office to act as the liaisons to the DPC and shall provide analytic and
other support to the DPC policy processes at every level of the DPC
structure.  The Counsel to the President, the Assistant to the President
and Press Secretary, and the Assistant to the President for Legislative
Affairs may each be represented, as appropriate, at DPC committee
meetings at each level of the DPC structure.

The Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, the Assistant to the
President and National Security Advisor, the Assistant to the President
and National Climate Advisor, a Co-Chair of the Gender Policy Council,
the COVID-19 Response Coordinator, the Director of the Office of Science
and Technology Policy, the Director of National Drug Control Policy, the
National Cybersecurity Director, the United States Trade Representative,
and other EOP senior officials may, as appropriate, observe or
participate in meetings at each level of the DPC structure, as
appropriate, at the discretion of the APDP or a Deputy Assistant to the
President for Domestic Policy.

The APDP may designate a DPC liaison to observe and participate in
policy processes led under the auspices of other EOP components or
senior officials, including the National Economic Council, the National
Security Council, the Assistant to the President and National Climate
Advisor, the COVID-19 Response Coordinator, the White House Gender
Policy Council, and the Council on Environmental Quality.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
