---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-05-28'
modified_time: 2021-05-28 14:33:06-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/05/28/executive-order-on-advancing-equity-justice-and-opportunity-for-asian-americans-native-hawaiians-and-pacific-islanders/
published_time: 2021-05-28 14:33:05-04:00
title: "Executive Order on Advancing Equity, Justice, and Opportunity for Asian Americans,\
  \ Native Hawaiians, and Pacific\_Islanders"
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1.  Policy.  Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific
Islander (AA and NHPI) individuals and communities are irrefutable
sources of our Nation’s strength.  These communities have molded the
American experience, and the achievements of AA and NHPI communities
make the United States stronger and more vibrant.  The richness of
America’s multicultural democracy is strengthened by the diversity of AA
and NHPI communities and the many cultures and languages of AA and NHPI
individuals in the United States.

Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander communities
together constitute the fastest growing ethnic group in the United
States and make rich contributions to our society, our economy, and our
culture.  Yet for far too long, systemic barriers to equity, justice,
and opportunity put the American dream out of reach of many AA and NHPI
communities.  Many AA and NHPI individuals face persistent disparities
in socioeconomic, health, and educational outcomes.  Linguistic
isolation and lack of access to language-assistance services continue to
lock many AA and NHPI individuals out of opportunity.  Too often Federal
data collection practices fail to measure, reflect, and disaggregate the
diversity of AA and NHPI experiences.  These practices contribute to
often painful and enduring stereotypes about Asian Americans as a “model
minority” and obscure disparities within AA and NHPI communities.

Our Nation has also seen again that anti-Asian bias, xenophobia, racism,
and nativism have deep roots in our Nation.  Tragic acts of anti-Asian
violence have increased during the COVID-19 pandemic, casting a shadow
of fear and grief over many AA and NHPI communities, in particular East
Asian communities.  Long before this pandemic, AA and NHPI communities
in the United States — including South Asian and Southeast Asian
communities — have faced persistent xenophobia, religious
discrimination, racism, and violence.  The Federal Government must
provide the moral leadership, policies, and programs to address and end
anti-Asian violence and discrimination, and advance inclusion and
belonging for all AA and NHPI communities.

At the same time, many AA and NHPI communities, and in particular Native
Hawaiian and Pacific Islander communities, have also been
disproportionately burdened by the COVID-19 public health crisis.
 Evidence suggests that Native Hawaiians and Pacific Islanders are three
times more likely to contract COVID-19 compared to white people and
nearly twice as likely to die from the disease.  On top of these health
inequities, many AA and NHPI families and small businesses have faced
devastating economic losses during this crisis, which must be addressed.

As I directed in Executive Order 13985 of January 20, 2021 (Advancing
Racial Equity and Support for Underserved Communities Through the
Federal Government), the entire Federal Government must advance equity
and racial justice for underserved communities, which include AA and
NHPI communities.  As I established in the Presidential Memorandum of
January 26, 2021 (Condemning and Combating Racism, Xenophobia, and
Intolerance Against Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders in the United
States), it is the policy of my Administration to address and confront
racism, xenophobia, and intolerance.  The purpose of this order is to
build on those policies by establishing the President’s Advisory
Commission on Asian Americans, Native Hawaiians, and Pacific Islanders
and the White House Initiative on Asian Americans, Native Hawaiians, and
Pacific Islanders.  Both will work to advance equity, justice, and
opportunity for AA and NHPI communities in the United States.

Sec. 2.  President’s Advisory Commission on Asian Americans, Native
Hawaiians, and Pacific Islanders. 

     (a)  There is established in the Department of Health and Human
Services the President’s Advisory Commission on Asian Americans, Native
Hawaiians, and Pacific Islanders (Commission).  

     (b)  The Commission shall be led by two Co-Chairs, one of whom
shall be the Secretary of Health and Human Services, the other of whom
shall be the head of an executive department or agency (agency)
designated by the President.  The Commission shall provide advice to the
President, in close coordination with the Deputy Assistant to the
President and Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander
Senior Liaison, on:

          (i)    the development, monitoring, and coordination of
executive branch efforts to advance equity, justice, and opportunity for
AA and NHPI communities in the United States, including efforts to close
gaps in health, socioeconomic, employment, and educational outcomes;

          (ii)   policies to address and end anti-Asian bias,
xenophobia, racism, and nativism, and opportunities for the executive
branch to advance inclusion, belonging, and public awareness of the
diversity and accomplishments of AA and NHPI people, cultures, and
histories;

          (iii)  policies, programs, and initiatives to prevent, report,
respond to, and track anti-Asian hate crimes and hate incidents;

          (iv)   ways in which the Federal Government can build on the
capacity and contributions of AA and NHPI communities through equitable
Federal funding, grantmaking, and employment opportunities;

          (v)    policies and practices to improve research and
equitable data disaggregation regarding AA and NHPI communities;

          (vi)   policies and practices to improve language access
services to ensure AA and NHPI communities can access Federal programs
and services; and

          (vii)  strategies to increase public- and private-sector
collaboration, and community involvement in improving the safety and
socioeconomic, health, educational, occupational, and environmental
well‑being of AA and NHPI communities.

     (c)  The Commission shall consist of 25 members appointed by the
President.  The Commission shall include members who:

          (i)    have a history of advancing equity, justice, and
opportunity for AA and NHPI communities;

          (ii)   represent diverse sectors, including education,
commerce, business, health, human services, housing, the environment,
the arts, agriculture, labor and employment, transportation, justice,
veterans affairs, economic and community development, immigration, law,
and national security;

          (iii)  are from organizations or associations representing one
or more of the diverse AA and NHPI communities;

          (iv)   have personal or professional experience addressing
intersectional barriers faced by AA and NHPI communities, such as
discrimination or lack of access to opportunity based on country of
origin, immigration status, disability, age, or sex, including based on
sexual orientation and gender identity; or

          (v)    have such other experience as the President deems
appropriate.

     (d)  The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall designate an
Executive Director of the Commission (Executive Director).  The
Executive Director shall report to the Secretary of Health and Human
Services, in coordination with the other Co‑Chair of the Commission and
the Deputy Assistant to the President and Asian American, Native
Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander Senior Liaison.

          (i)   The Department of Health and Human Services shall
provide funding and administrative support for the Commission to the
extent permitted by law and within existing appropriations, and may, as
necessary and appropriate under section 1535 of title 31, United States
Code, enter into one or more agreements to obtain goods or services from
one or more agencies in support of the Commission.

          (ii)  The heads of other agencies shall assist and provide
information to the Commission, consistent with applicable law, as may be
necessary to carry out its functions.  Each agency shall bear its own
expenses of assisting the Commission.

          (iii)   Members of the Commission shall serve without
compensation, but shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem
in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving
intermittently in the Government service (5 U.S.C. 5701-5707).  Insofar
as the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. App.) (the
“Act”), may apply to the administration of the Commission, any functions
of the President under the Act, except that of reporting to the
Congress, shall be performed by the Secretary of Health and Human
Services, in accordance with the guidelines issued by the Administrator
of General Services.

     (e)  The Commission shall terminate 2 years from the date of this
order, unless sooner renewed by the President.

Sec. 3.  White House Initiative on Asian Americans, Native Hawaiians,
and Pacific Islanders.  

     (a)  There is established the White House Initiative on Asian
Americans, Native Hawaiians, and Pacific Islanders (Initiative), a
Federal interagency working group.  The Initiative shall be led by two
Co-Chairs, one of whom shall be the Secretary of Health and Human
Services, the other of whom shall be the head of an agency designated by
the President.  The Executive Director of the Commission established in
section 2(d) of this order shall also serve as the Executive Director of
the Initiative, reporting to the Secretary of Health and Human Services,
in coordination with the other Co-Chair of the Initiative and the Deputy
Assistant to the President and Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and
Pacific Islander Senior Liaison.

     (b)  The Initiative shall advance equity, justice, and opportunity
for AA and NHPI communities by coordinating Federal interagency
policymaking and program development efforts to eliminate barriers to
equity, justice, and opportunity faced by AA and NHPI communities,
including by advancing policies, programs, and initiatives.  In
developing and implementing such policies, programs, and initiatives,
the Co-Chairs of the Initiative and the Executive Director shall
coordinate closely with the Deputy Assistant to the President and Asian
American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander Senior Liaison.  To
support implementation of a whole-of-government approach to equity and
racial justice, as established in Executive Order 13985, the Assistant
to the President for Domestic Policy and the Director of the Office of
Management and Budget shall coordinate closely with the Co-Chairs of the
Initiative and the Executive Director to ensure that the needs and
voices of AA and NHPI communities are considered in the efforts of my
Administration to advance equity and civil rights. 

     In particular, the Initiative shall advance efforts to:

          (i)     identify and eliminate any existing institutional
policies or barriers within Federal programs and services that may
disadvantage or burden AA and NHPI communities;

          (ii)    improve safety, access to justice, and violence
prevention for AA and NHPI communities, including by preventing,
reporting, addressing, and better tracking acts of hate and bias (such
as acts of hate and bias at the intersection of gender-based violence);

          (iii)   promote inclusion and belonging for AA and NHPI
communities, including by expanding public education and knowledge of AA
and NHPI people and their diverse cultures, languages, and histories;

          (iv)    expand the collection and use of disaggregated data at
the Federal, State and local level on AA and NHPI communities, and
facilitate improved research on policy and program outcomes for AA and
NHPI communities, in coordination with the Interagency Working Group on
Equitable Data established by Executive Order 13985;

          (v)     end language access and other barriers faced by AA and
NHPI communities in accessing government benefits and services;

          (vi)    improve health outcomes, eliminate health disparities,
and expand access to quality, affordable, and culturally competent
medical and mental healthcare services for AA and NHPI individuals and
communities;

          (vii)   end disparities in educational outcomes for AA and
NHPI youth and students of all ages, and address barriers to learning,
including bullying, harassment, and other forms of discrimination at
school;

          (viii)  address the concentration of poverty facing many AA
and NHPI communities, including by identifying and addressing
disparities in access to safe, affordable housing and homeownership;

          (ix)    expand economic opportunity for AA and NHPI families,
including by advancing opportunities for AA and NHPI entrepreneurs and
small businesses, supporting access to jobs and workforce training
for AA and NHPI communities, promoting AA and NHPI participation and
success in the private sector, ensuring workplaces are free from race
and national origin harassment and other forms of employment
discrimination, and ensuring AA and NHPI communities can access consumer
and finance protections;

          (x)     increase opportunities for civic engagement, such as
electoral participation, within AA and NHPI communities;

          (xi)    improve the equitable allocation of Federal resources,
including through Federal funds, contracts, grants, and awards, to AA
and NHPI communities and AA and NHPI-serving organizations;

          (xii)   support AA and NHPI communities in responding to and
recovering from national or regional crises and public health
emergencies, including the COVID-19 pandemic and related economic
crisis;

          (xiii)  secure climate and environmental justice for AA and
NHPI communities who are particularly impacted by the climate crisis and
are overburdened by environmental degradation; and

          (xiv)  identify ways to foster the recruitment, career and
leadership development, retention, advancement, and participation of AA
and NHPI public servants at all levels of the Federal workforce.

     (c)  In addition to the Co-Chairs, the Initiative shall consist of
senior officials from the following agencies and offices, designated by
the heads thereof:

          (i)       the Office of the Vice President;

          (ii)      the Department of State;

          (iii)     the Department of the Treasury;

          (iv)      the Department of Defense;

          (v)       the Department of Justice;

          (vi)      the Department of the Interior;

          (vii)     the Department of Agriculture;

          (viii)    the Department of Commerce;

          (ix)      the Department of Labor;

          (x)       the Department of Health and Human Services;

          (xi)      the Department of Housing and Urban Development;

          (xii)     the Department of Energy;

          (xiii)    the Department of Education;

          (xiv)     the Department of Veterans Affairs;

          (xv)      the Department of Homeland Security;

          (xvi)     the Environmental Protection Agency;

          (xvii)    the Office of Management and Budget;

          (xviii)   the Office of the United States Trade
Representative;

          (xix)     the Small Business Administration;

          (xx)      the Office of Science and Technology Policy;

          (xxi)     the National Security Council;

          (xxii)    the National Economic Council;

          (xxiii)   the Domestic Policy Council;

          (xxiv)    the Gender Policy Council;

          (xxv)     the Council on Environmental Quality;

          (xxvi)    the White House Office of Cabinet Affairs;

          (xxvii)   the White House Office of Intergovernmental Affairs;

          (xxviii)  the White House Office of Public Engagement;

          (xxix)    the White House Office of Presidential Personnel;

          (xxx)     the Social Security Administration;

          (xxxi)    the General Services Administration;

          (xxxii)   the United States Agency for International
Development;

          (xxxiii)  the Office of Personnel Management;

          (xxxiv)   the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission; and

          (xxxv)    other agencies and offices as the President may,
from time to time, designate.

     At the direction of the Co-Chairs, the Initiative may establish
subgroups consisting exclusively of Initiative members or their
designees, as appropriate.  To the extent permitted by law, members of
the Initiative, or their designees, shall devote the time, skill, and
resources necessary and adequate to carry out the functions of the
Initiative.  Each agency and office shall bear its own expenses for
participating in the Initiative.

     (d)  The Department of Health and Human Services shall provide
funding and administrative support for the Initiative to the extent
permitted by law and within existing appropriations, and may, as
necessary and appropriate under section 1535 of title 31, United States
Code, enter into one or more agreements to obtain goods or services from
one or more agencies in support of the Initiative.

     (e)  Each agency in the Initiative shall prepare a plan (agency
plan) outlining measurable actions the agency is considering or will
take to advance equity, justice, and opportunity for AA and NHPI
communities, including plans to implement the policy goals outlined in
subsection (b) of this section.  Agencies shall report their plans to
the Co-Chairs of the Initiative and the Executive Director on a
frequency established by the Executive Director.  In developing such
plans, officials participating in the Initiative shall seek
opportunities to engage with employee affinity groups or Federal
networks representing AA and NHPI public servants.

          (i)   Each such agency shall assess and report to the
Co-Chairs of the Initiative and the Executive Director on its progress
in implementing its respective agency plan on a regular basis as
established by the Co-Chairs of the Initiative and the Executive
Director.

          (ii)  On an annual basis, the Co-Chairs of the Initiative
shall develop and submit to the President a report outlining a
Government-wide interagency plan to advance equity, justice, and
opportunity for AA and NHPI communities, and progress made in
implementing the policy goals outlined in subsection (b) of this
section.

     (f)  The Initiative shall coordinate with and support the existing
regional network of Federal officials who facilitate improved
communication, engagement, and coordination between the Federal
Government and AA and NHPI communities throughout the United States
(Regional Network).  Agencies identified as participants in the
Initiative shall seek opportunities, consistent with applicable law and
available resources, to provide support and resources to the Regional
Network through each agency’s respective regional offices.  The
Executive Director shall coordinate the efforts of the Regional Network,
and may establish regular reporting and information-sharing activities
between the Regional Network and the Initiative.

Sec. 4.  General Provisions.

     (a)  This order supersedes Executive Order 13125 of June 7, 1999
(Increasing Participation of Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders in
Federal Programs); Executive Order 13339 of May 13, 2004 (Increasing
Economic Opportunity and Business Participation of Asian Americans and
Pacific Islanders); Executive Order 13515 of October 14, 2009
(Increasing Participation of Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders in
Federal Programs); and Executive Order 13872 of May 13, 2019 (Economic
Empowerment of Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders).

     (b)  Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or
otherwise affect:

          (i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department
or agency, or the head thereof; or

          (ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of
Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or
legislative proposals.

     (c)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.

     (d)  For purposes of this order, references to executive
departments and agencies shall not include the agencies described in
section 3502(5) of title 44, United States Code.  Independent regulatory
agencies are strongly encouraged to comply with the provisions of this
order.

     (e)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right
or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity
by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

THE WHITE HOUSE,

May 28, 2021.
