---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-05-07'
modified_time: 2021-05-07 16:11:29-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/05/07/a-proclamation-on-national-womens-health-week-2021/
published_time: 2021-05-07 16:11:28-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on National Women\u2019s Health Week, 2021"
---
 
     It’s a simple proposition for me:  women are entitled to the same
rights and opportunities as men, including access to high-quality,
affordable health care.  National Women’s Health Week is an opportunity
to focus on the work we need to do as a Nation to ensure equal access to
high-quality, affordable care for women, and to build a more prosperous,
healthy future for all. 

     This starts by strengthening the Affordable Care Act, which ensures
that women cannot be denied coverage for pre-existing conditions, such
as pregnancy, or charged more for coverage simply because they are
women.  The Affordable Care Act also expanded coverage to millions of
women who were previously uninsured, and made various preventive
services available free of charge, including Pap smears and mammograms.
 In addition, it covers screening and counseling for domestic and
intimate partner violence. 

     To cover more Americans, the Biden-Harris Administration began a
special open enrollment period on healthcare.gov, so that women who are
uninsured have the opportunity to sign up for coverage through August
15.  And, we are committed to building on the successes of this law to
make coverage more affordable.  The American Rescue Plan, enacted
earlier this year, will save women buying coverage on their own $50 per
month on their health care premiums.

     The theme of this year’s National Women’s Health Week is “Ending
the Pandemic and Elevating Women’s Health.”  The quickest and most
effective way to defeat this pandemic and restore public health is
through vaccination. 

     My Administration is committed to advancing women’s health and
ensuring an equitable response to the COVID-19 pandemic.  We have
prioritized and increased access to the COVID-19 vaccine and expanded
the criteria for eligibility to include all adults over the age of 16. 
We encourage women to talk to their doctors, nurses, nurse
practitioners, or physician assistants about the COVID-19 vaccine. 

     And, it is important for women and girls to catch up on any missed
vaccines or medical care from this past year.  Delays in routine care —
such as Pap smears, mammograms, bone density scans, stress tests,
cholesterol screenings, blood pressure screenings, physical exams,
general check-ups and other preventive health screenings — can cause
many conditions to go undetected.  As we mark National Women’s Health
Week, let us make sure that all women and girls, particularly those with
underlying health conditions such as hypertension, diabetes,
cardiovascular and respiratory conditions, and mental health needs, can
prioritize their own health.

     The COVID-19 pandemic has further revealed why the unique needs of
women and girls must be centered in our health care system, and further
brought to light the health disparities and systemic biases that women,
particularly women of color, continue to face, including inequitable
maternity care and access to reproductive health care.  

     My Administration aims to address persistent and unconscionable
disparities in maternal health outcomes.  Pregnancy-related mortality
for Black and American Indian and Alaska Native women is two to three
times higher than for white, Hispanic, and Asian American and Pacific
Islander women.  Ensuring that all women have equitable access to health
care before, during, and after pregnancy is essential.  I am committed
to building a health care system that delivers equity and dignity to all
women and girls.  In addition, we must protect access to sexual and
reproductive health care, including the broad range of family planning
services.

     As we strive to improve the health of our Nation, we must
prioritize the health and well-being of our women and girls.  During
National Women’s Health Week, we reaffirm our commitment to this
important work.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim May 9
through May 15, 2021, as National Women’s Health Week.  During this
week, I encourage all Americans to dedicate themselves to the work of
improving the health of women and girls and promoting health equity for
all.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this seventh day of
May, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-fifth.  
 

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
