---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-05-28'
modified_time: 2021-05-28 14:38:30-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/05/28/a-proclamation-prayer-for-peace-memorial-day-2021/
published_time: 2021-05-28 14:38:29-04:00
title: "A Proclamation: Prayer for Peace, Memorial Day,\_2021"
---
 
On Memorial Day, we honor and reflect upon the courage, integrity, and
selfless dedication of the members of our Armed Forces who have made the
greatest sacrifice in service to our Nation.  Whether in the waters of
the Pacific, on the beachheads of Europe, in the deserts of the Middle
East, or in the mountains of Afghanistan, American service members have
given their lives to uphold our Constitution and to defend the safety
and freedoms of our citizens.  These patriots embody the best of the
American spirit. They put themselves on the line for our shared values —
for duty, honor, country — and they paid the ultimate price.  Our Nation
can never fully repay the debt we owe to our fallen heroes and their
families.

Jill and I know what it means to have a child serving in a war zone —
the ever-present concern for your loved one and their fellow service
members.  Today and every day, we ask God to protect our troops.  We
also recognize the tremendous loss endured by America’s Gold Star
families — the families of military members who died in conflict.  We
have a sacred obligation as a Nation to support those families and to
always honor the memories of their loved ones. 

That is the vow we make each year on Memorial Day.  Our Nation will
never forget the courage and patriotism demonstrated by the countless
women and men who laid down their lives so that we may continue to
pursue a more perfect Union and to protect the unalienable rights
Americans hold dear.  They came from every part of the country, of every
background and belief, united by a shared belief in our uniquely
American creed — that all people are created equal.  We will honor their
legacy by continuing our work to live up to that commitment and to
advance the values they lived and died to defend.  We will continue to
fight for equity and inclusion in our country and institutions, and
ensure every qualified American who is willing to serve our country —
regardless of race, religion, gender identity, sexual orientation, or
background — has a fair and equal opportunity to do so. 

We will continue to honor our fallen service members through the actions
of a new generation who volunteer to serve in uniform, who anchor our
military to our democratic values, and who stand ready to deter
aggression from our enemies and, if required, fight and defend our
Nation.  Today — as we keep true to the memory of our fallen heroes — we
will endeavor to meet their legacy and once more lead the world through
the power of our example and not just the example of our power.

As our Nation’s service members continue to risk their lives to protect
our homeland and thwart our enemies, we must not lose sight of our
desire for enduring peace.  Every day, countless Americans pray and work
for peace so that we may one day live in a world where American patriots
need not make the ultimate sacrifice, and where all people live in
freedom and prosperity.  As a Nation, we are grateful to the brave
members of our Armed Services — both past and present — who have forged
the legacy for that possibility.

In honor and recognition of all of our fallen service members, the
Congress, by a joint resolution approved May 11, 1950, as amended (36
U.S.C. 116), has requested that the President issue a proclamation
calling on the people of the United States to observe each Memorial Day
as a day of prayer for permanent peace and designating a period on that
day when the people of the United States might unite in prayer and
reflection.  The Congress, by Public Law 106-579, has also designated
3:00 p.m. local time on that day as a time for all Americans to observe,
in their own way, the National Moment of Remembrance.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, do hereby proclaim Memorial Day, May 31, 2021, as a day of
prayer for permanent peace, and I designate the hour beginning in each
locality at 11:00 a.m. of that day as a time when people might unite in
prayer and reflection.  I urge the press, radio, television, and all
other information media to cooperate in this observance.  I further ask
all Americans to observe the National Moment of Remembrance beginning at
3:00 p.m. local time on Memorial Day.

I request the Governors of the United States and its Territories, and
the appropriate officials of all units of government, to direct that the
flag be flown at half-staff until noon on this Memorial Day on all
buildings, grounds, and naval vessels throughout the United States and
in all areas under its jurisdiction and control.  I also request the
people of the United States to display the flag at half-staff from their
homes for the customary forenoon period.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-eighth day
of May, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-fifth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
