---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-05-14'
modified_time: 2021-05-14 17:14:40-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/05/14/a-proclamation-on-national-defense-transportation-day-and-national-transportation-week-2021/
published_time: 2021-05-14 17:14:39-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on National Defense Transportation Day and National Transportation\
  \ Week,\_2021"
---
 
Since our Nation’s founding, our transportation infrastructure has
enabled our economic growth and enhanced our national security.  From
the American merchant ships that carried supplies to support military
operations during the Revolutionary War, to the Erie Canal opening the
Midwest and West for growth, to the transcontinental railroad linking
our Nation after the Civil War; to the interstate highway system
transforming the way we travel, live, and work, our transportation
infrastructure has supported national defense and powered interstate
commerce.  On National Defense Transportation Day and during National
Transportation Week, we take time to recognize the transformational role
infrastructure has played throughout our history, and reflect on the
work and investment required to build an even stronger, more
sustainable, and more equitable transportation system of the future.

America’s transportation system has always proven vital for civilian and
military organizations, something we have seen demonstrated in our
Nation’s response to the COVID-19 pandemic.  Dedicated workers, using a
comprehensive transportation plan, including airports, highways,
railroads, waterways, and public transit, enabled the Federal Government
to distribute tens of millions of COVID-19 vaccines and helped us
deliver over 200 million shots in my first 100 days as President.

Even as we recognize the essential nature of our transportation system,
we must recognize that the system was built in a way that harmed
vulnerable communities, does not provide equal services to all people,
creates harmful local pollution, and contributes to climate change.  We
also must address the fact that decades of disinvestment and neglect
have caused our roads, bridges and water systems to fall into disrepair.

A disproportionate number of infrastructure needs occur in underserved
or underrepresented communities where people depend upon transportation
systems for work and daily activities.  The lack of affordable
transportation options means lack of access to good-paying jobs,
education, and health care.  Modern and resilient infrastructure
supporting reliable and affordable transportation options make the
American Dream possible for all of us, regardless of geography, race,
disability, or economic status.

For all of these reasons, I have proposed an American Jobs Plan that
will modernize 20,000 miles of highways, roads, and main streets, fix
the Nation’s 10 most economically significant bridges in America in need
of replacement, and repair 10,000 bridges desperately in need of
upgrades to unclog traffic, keep people safe, and connect our cities,
towns, and Tribes across the country.  It will build back a better
transportation system — one that is resilient to floods, fires, and
storms, and provides equitable, affordable access to opportunity for all
Americans.

The American Jobs Plan will replace buses and rail cars, build new rail
corridors and transit lines — easing congestion, cutting pollution,
slashing commute times, and opening up investment in communities that
can be connected to city centers.  It will reduce the bottlenecks of
commerce at our ports and airports.  The plan will also create
good-quality jobs paying prevailing wages in safe and healthy workplaces
while ensuring workers have a free and fair choice to organize, join a
union, and bargain collectively with their employers.

As our Nation recovers from the COVID-19 pandemic and the economic
destruction it caused, we have a chance to build back better by focusing
on infrastructure that reconnects communities, provides equitable access
to transportation services, and mitigates the devastating effects of
climate change.  

This month we recognize the dedicated men and women who kept this Nation
moving during the depths of a global pandemic:  the truckers who
delivered groceries to empty store shelves; the airline crews who flew
medical workers to COVID-19 hotspots; the United States military members
who remained on the front lines to distribute and administer vaccines in
record time; and the transportation workers who kept our systems running
as economies shut down.  We thank you for serving the American people
and the traveling public.  

In recognition of the ongoing contributions of our Nation’s
transportation system and in honor of the devoted professionals who work
to sustain its tradition of excellence, the United States Congress has
requested, by joint resolution approved May 16, 1957, as amended (36
U.S.C. 120), that the President designate the third Friday in May of
each year as “National Defense Transportation Day” and, by joint
resolution approved May 14, 1962 (36 U.S.C. 133), that the week in which
that Friday falls be designated as “National Transportation Week.”

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, do hereby proclaim Friday, May 21, 2021, as National Defense
Transportation Day and May 16 through May 22, 2021, as National
Transportation Week.  I urge all Americans to observe these occasions
with appropriate ceremonies, programs, and activities as we show our
appreciation to those who build and operate our Nation’s transportation
systems.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this fourteenth day of
May, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-fifth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
