---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-05-07'
modified_time: 2021-05-07 16:42:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/05/07/a-proclamation-on-national-hurricane-preparedness-week-2021/
published_time: 2021-05-07 16:41:59-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on National Hurricane Preparedness Week,\_2021"
---
 
In 2020, the United States experienced a record year for extreme
weather, with an unprecedented 30 named storms in the Atlantic Basin
alone.  Twelve of these storms, six of which were hurricanes, made
landfall in the United States.  These storms and hurricanes unleashed
their devastating power on the individuals and communities in their
paths.  Their frequency and impact also highlight the existential threat
posed to our Nation by climate change.  During National Hurricane
Preparedness Week, we encourage all Americans living in potentially
affected areas to take precautions to ensure that they, their families,
and their communities are best prepared for hurricanes, and commit to
improving our resilience to climate-related catastrophes.

The costs exacted by these storms, in lives, livelihoods, and property
damage, are staggering.  Seven of last year’s 30 named storms claimed 86
lives and caused $40 billion dollars in damage.  Over the past two
decades, tropical storms and hurricanes have taken over 6,000 lives in
the United States and caused $853 billion in damage.  These storms
accounted for 60 percent of the costs of our most damaging weather
events.  In addition to the highly-visible damage, hurricanes also exact
an unseen and long-lasting emotional toll; the trauma of a lost loved
one, the sadness of losing treasured possessions, the stress of a
financial setback.  This is compounded for low-income communities and
communities of color who are more likely to live in areas that make them
vulnerable to flooding and other climate-related weather events, and
less likely to have the funds to prepare for and recover from extreme
weather events. 

As changes in our climate lead to additional extreme weather events, we
must pursue research and resilience policies that keep us safe and
strengthen our resilience.

Since taking office, I have directed my Administration to put the
climate crisis and the communities most vulnerable to it at the center
of our domestic and foreign policy.  This includes investing in weather
forecasting and climate research to bolster our understanding of how our
changing climate is altering the behavior of hurricanes, as well as
ensuring every community has the resources to prepare for and respond to
these changing storms.  Although hurricanes cannot be prevented, we can
predict and prepare for them.

We are constantly improving our forecasts and communications with the
public about the dangers posed by hurricanes.  National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) forecasters work around the clock and
collaborate with State, local, Tribal, and territorial emergency
managers and government officials to provide actionable information
before, during, and after a hurricane.  NOAA also collaborates with key
decision makers in Federal agencies, including the Department of
Homeland Security and the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). 
Such collaborative work ensures that communities standing in a storm’s
path have the information and resources they need to adequately
prepare.  After the storm, NOAA provides stakeholders with essential
information for damage assessments and to re-open ports and coastal
waterways critical to our Nation’s commerce.

In addition to work being done by Federal, State, local, and Tribal
governments, Americans should prepare themselves before a hurricane
hits.  Keep up with weather forecasts and have an evacuation kit
prepared in case you ever need to relocate in advance of a hurricane. 
More information and preparedness plan templates are available from
FEMA’s ready.gov website.

Everyone has a role to play in hurricane preparedness and making us a
Weather-Ready Nation.  When hurricanes strike, that’s how we will save
lives, lessen the damage to our homes, communities, and infrastructure,
and recover stronger and faster.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim May 9 through May
15, 2021, as National Hurricane Preparedness Week.  I urge all Americans
to help build our Weather-Ready Nation, so that individuals are
empowered and organizations can fulfill leadership roles in their
communities.  I call on our Federal, State, Tribal, territorial and
local government agencies to share information that will protect lives
and property.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this seventh day of May,
in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the Independence
of the United States of America the two hundred and forty-fifth.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
