---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-05-31'
modified_time: 2021-05-31 11:54:38-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/05/31/a-proclamation-on-day-of-remembrance-100-years-after-the-1921-tulsa-race-massacre/
published_time: 2021-05-31 11:54:37-04:00
title: 'A Proclamation on Day Of Remembrance: 100 Years After The 1921 Tulsa Race
  Massacre'
---
 
One hundred years ago, a violent white supremacist mob raided,
firebombed, and destroyed approximately 35 square blocks of the thriving
Black neighborhood of Greenwood in Tulsa, Oklahoma. Families and
children were murdered in cold blood. Homes, businesses, and churches
were burned. In all, as many as 300 Black Americans were killed, and
nearly 10,000 were left destitute and homeless. Today, on this solemn
centennial of the Tulsa Race Massacre, I call on the American people to
reflect on the deep roots of racial terror in our Nation and recommit to
the work of rooting out systemic racism across our country.

Before the Tulsa Race Massacre, Greenwood was a thriving Black community
that had grown into a proud economic and cultural hub. At its center was
Greenwood Avenue, commonly known as Black Wall Street. Many of
Greenwood’s 10,000 residents were Black sharecroppers who fled racial
violence after the Civil War.

In the decades following the Civil War and Reconstruction, Greenwood
became a place where Black Americans were able to make a new start and
secure economic progress despite the continued pain of institutional and
overt racism. The community was home to a growing number of
prominent Black entrepreneurs as well as working-class Black families
who shared a commitment to social activism and economic opportunity. As
Greenwood grew, Greenwood Avenue teemed with successful Black-owned
businesses, including restaurants, grocery stores, hotels, and offices
for doctors, lawyers, and dentists. The community also maintained its
own school system, post office, a savings and loan institution,
hospital, and bus and taxi service.

Despite rising Jim Crow systems and the reemergence of the Ku Klux Klan,
Greenwood’s economic prosperity grew, as did its citizens’ demands for
equal rights. This made the community a source of pride for many Black
Americans. It also made the neighborhood and its families a target of
white supremacists. In 2 days, a violent mob tore down the hard-fought
success of Black Wall Street that had taken more than a decade to build.

In the years that followed, the destruction caused by the mob was
followed by laws and policies that made recovery nearly impossible. In
the aftermath of the attack, local ordinances were passed requiring new
construction standards that were prohibitively expensive, meaning many
Black families could not rebuild. Later, Greenwood was redlined by
mortgage companies and deemed “hazardous” by the Federal Government so
that Black homeowners could not access home loans or credit on equal
terms. And in later decades, Federal investment, including Federal
highway construction, tore down and cut off parts of the community. The
attack on Black families and Black wealth in Greenwood persisted across
generations.

The Federal Government must reckon with and acknowledge the role that it
has played in stripping wealth and opportunity from Black communities.
The Biden-Harris Administration is committed to acknowledging the role
Federal policy played in Greenwood and other Black communities and
addressing longstanding racial inequities through historic investments
in the economic security of children and families, programs to provide
capital for small businesses in economically disadvantaged areas,
including minority-owned businesses, and ensuring that infrastructure
projects increase opportunity, advance racial equity and environmental
justice, and promote affordable access.

A century later, the fear and pain from the devastation of Greenwood is
still felt. As Viola Fletcher, a 107-year-old survivor of the Tulsa Race
Massacre courageously testified before the Congress recently, “I will
never forget the violence of the white mob when we left our home. I
still see Black men being shot, Black bodies lying in the street. I
still smell smoke and see fire. I still see Black businesses being
burned. I still hear airplanes flying overhead. I hear the screams. I
have lived through the massacre every day. Our country may forget this
history, but I cannot.”

With this proclamation, I commit to the survivors of the Tulsa Race
Massacre, including Viola Fletcher, Hughes Van Ellis, and Lessie
Benningfield Randle, the descendants of victims, and to this Nation that
we will never forget.  We honor the legacy of the Greenwood community,
and of Black Wall Street, by reaffirming our commitment to advance
racial justice through the whole of our government, and working to root
out systemic racism from our laws, our policies, and our hearts. 

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim May 31, 2021, a
Day of Remembrance: 100 Years After The 1921 Tulsa Race Massacre. I call
upon the people of the United States to commemorate the tremendous loss
of life and security that occurred over those 2 days in 1921, to
celebrate the bravery and resilience of those who survived and sought to
rebuild their lives again, and commit together to eradicate systemic
racism and help to rebuild communities and lives that have been
destroyed by it.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first day of
May, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-fifth.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
