---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-05-21'
modified_time: 2021-05-21 17:18:18-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/05/21/a-proclamation-on-national-maritime-day-2021/
published_time: 2021-05-21 17:18:17-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on National Maritime Day,\_2021"
---
 
Since the first days of our Republic, America has been a proud maritime
Nation.  To this day, the United States Merchant Marine is a pillar of
our country’s prosperity, playing a vital role in the maintenance of our
economic and national security.  Through every period of peace and war,
our merchant mariners have been dedicated to protecting our freedom and
promoting commerce.  On National Maritime Day, we honor the steadfast
commitment and sacrifices of the men and women who serve in the United
States Merchant Marine, and recognize their essential role in
safeguarding and strengthening our Nation. 

Called the “fourth arm of defense” by President Franklin D. Roosevelt
during World War II, the Merchant Marine established itself as a
cornerstone of sealift support for our Armed Forces, sailing through
theaters of war to deliver troops and supplies while keeping vital ocean
supply lines operating.  The perseverance and dedication of the Merchant
Marine contributed to the Allied victory even as they suffered one of
the highest casualty rates of any of our military services.

Our merchant mariners also play a critical role in times of peace.  They
ensure our economic security by keeping our coastal and inland waterways
open to trade, while United States-flagged ships operated by American
merchant mariners transport goods across our country and all over the
world.  United States maritime freight operations helped support
$5.4 trillion of economic activity among the many non-maritime
industries that depend on the Merchant Marine for access to world
markets.  This movement of goods domestically and internationally
continues to ensure America’s economic competitiveness throughout the
world — growing jobs and supporting businesses of all sizes here at
home.

Our merchant mariners are also critical to extending United States
support and assistance to foreign nations and local communities hit hard
by natural disasters and devastating crises.  Even in the midst of a
worldwide pandemic, these brave men and women have overcome seemingly
insurmountable obstacles to fulfill their mission while keeping our
Nation’s supply chains running.  

The operation of the United States-flagged fleet is essential in
contributing to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and landside
congestion, helping provide current and future generations with a more
sustainable means of freight transportation.  The industry is also
working to develop and implement new technologies to continue reducing
emissions — an effort my Administration is supporting through new
international partnerships.

The maritime industry has long provided opportunity for Americans of all
backgrounds — and the Merchant Marine continues to advance a more
equitable industry in which barriers to entry and advancement are
eliminated.

On this National Maritime Day, we honor the brave merchant mariners who
provide critical support to our troops stationed in warzones, and who
are essential to our Nation’s economic success.  Recognizing the
contributions of our merchant mariners, my Administration strongly
supports protecting the Jones Act — the cornerstone of our domestic
maritime industry.  We must protect those who protect our country.

The Congress, by a joint resolution approved May 20, 1933, has
designated May 22 of each year as “National Maritime Day” to commemorate
the first transoceanic voyage by a steamship in 1819 by the S.S.
Savannah.  By this resolution, the Congress has authorized and requested
the President to issue annually a proclamation calling for its
appropriate observance.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR*.*, President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim May 22, 2021, as
National Maritime Day.  I call upon all Americans to observe this day
and to celebrate with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-first day of
May, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-fifth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
