---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-05-04'
modified_time: 2021-05-04 18:02:20-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/05/04/a-proclamation-on-missing-and-murdered-indigenous-persons-awareness-day-2021/
published_time: 2021-05-04 16:34:28-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on Missing and Murdered Indigenous Persons Awareness Day,\_\
  2021"
---
 
Today, thousands of unsolved cases of missing and murdered Native
Americans continue to cry out for justice and healing.  On Missing and
Murdered Indigenous Persons Awareness Day, we remember the Indigenous
people who we have lost to murder and those who remain missing and
commit to working with Tribal Nations to ensure any instance of a
missing or murdered person is met with swift and effective action. 

Our failure to allocate the necessary resources and muster the necessary
commitment to addressing and preventing this ongoing tragedy not only
demeans the dignity and humanity of each person who goes missing or is
murdered, it sends pain and shockwaves across our Tribal communities.
 Our treaty and trust responsibilities to Tribal Nations require our
best efforts, and our concern for the well-being of these fellow
citizens require us to act with urgency.  To this end, our Government
must strengthen its support and collaboration with Tribal communities.

My Administration is fully committed to working with Tribal Nations to
address the disproportionately high number of missing or murdered
Indigenous people, as well as increasing coordination to investigate and
resolve these cases and ensure accountability.  I am further committed
to addressing the underlying causes behind those numbers, including —
among others — sexual violence, human trafficking, domestic violence,
violent crime, systemic racism, economic disparities, and substance use
and addiction.  Federal partnerships to address the number of missing
and murdered Indigenous peoples will be governed by the Nation-to-Nation
foundation of our relationship with Tribal governments and respect for
Tribal sovereignty and self-determination.  The challenges in Tribal
communities are best met by solutions that are informed and shaped by
Tribal leaders and Tribal governments. 

Tribes across the United States have long worked to provide solutions
for their communities.  In April, the Confederated Salish and Kootenai
Tribes of the Flathead Indian Reservation, the United States Attorney’s
Office for the District of Montana, and the FBI announced the Nation’s
first Tribal Community Response Plan, part of a Department of Justice
pilot project to address emergent missing person cases in their
community.  When someone goes missing, it is often an urgent and
time-sensitive situation.  The Tribal community response plan lays out a
blueprint for how Tribal law enforcement; local, State, and Federal law
enforcement; and community members can respond when someone goes missing
from a Tribal community — resolving important issues of jurisdictional
overlap and gaps in order to respond swiftly and effectively.  Other
Tribes and Native villages such as the Muscogee (Creek) Nation in
Oklahoma, Native Village of Unalakleet in Alaska, and the Bay Mills
Indian Community in Michigan, are working with Federal partners on their
own community response plans. 

My Administration has made a priority of helping to solve the issues
surrounding Native Americans who go missing and those who are murdered
across the United States — including high rates of Native women and
girls, including transgender women and girls.  We recognize there is a
level of mistrust of the United States Government in many Native
communities, stemming from a long history of broken promises,
oppression, and trauma. That is why we are pursuing ways to build trust
in our Government and the systems designed to provide support to
families in need.  We must bridge the gap for families in crisis,
provide necessary support services, and support opportunities for
healing through holistic community-driven approaches.

I am committed to building on the successes of the 2013 reauthorization
of the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) by supporting the passage of
the VAWA Reauthorization of 2021. Among other protections, this bill
reaffirms inherent Tribal authority to prosecute certain non-Indian
offenders — extending protections from domestic violence and dating
violence to Native American victims of sexual violence, stalking,
trafficking, child abuse, elder abuse, and assault against law
enforcement or justice personnel when crimes are committed on Tribal
territory.  Additionally, through the American Rescue Plan we provided
an additional $35 million in grants for Tribes to provide temporary
housing, assistance, and supportive services to victims of domestic and
dating violence, as well as supplemental funding for the StrongHearts
Native Helpline, and additional funding for services for sexual assault
survivors.

My Administration has also committed to effectively implement the
requirements of Savanna’s Act and the Not Invisible Act, legislation
focused on combating the issues surrounding missing or murdered
Indigenous persons.  The Presidential Task Force on Missing and Murdered
American Indians and Alaska Natives continues to convene the Department
of Justice, the Department of the Interior, and the Department of Health
and Human Services, to address the issues from a combined public
health–public safety partnership.  Furthering the efforts of the task
force, the White House Council on Native American Affairs will bring
together all relevant Federal agencies to work with Tribal Nations on
exploring additional ways to enhance prevention efforts and improve
access to safety and justice. 

Furthermore, informed by Tribal input, the Department of the Interior
recently established the Missing & Murdered Unit (MMU) within the Bureau
of Indian Affairs Office of Justice Services to provide leadership and
direction for cross-departmental and interagency work involving missing
and murdered American Indians and Alaska Natives.  The MMU
will help bring the weight of the Federal Government to bear when
investigating these cases and marshal law enforcement resources across
Federal agencies and throughout Indian country. 

Our commitment to addressing these issues and to strengthening these
critical partnerships is unwavering.  For too long, there has been too
much sorrow and worry.  United by our mutual investment in healthy, safe
communities, we will work together to achieve lasting progress.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim May 5, 2021, as
Missing and Murdered Indigenous Persons Awareness Day.  I call on all
Americans and ask all levels of government to support Tribal governments
and Tribal communities’ efforts to increase awareness of the issue of
missing and murdered American Indians and Alaska Natives through
appropriate programs and activities.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this fourth day of May,
in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the Independence
of the United States of America the two hundred and forty-fifth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
