---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-05-06'
modified_time: 2021-05-06 17:40:03-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/05/06/notice-on-the-continuation-of-the-national-emergency-with-respect-to-the-actions-of-the-government-of-syria/
published_time: 2021-05-06 17:40:02-04:00
title: Notice on the Continuation of the National Emergency with Respect to the Actions
  of the Government of Syria
---
 
NOTICE

– – – – – – –

CONTINUATION OF THE NATIONAL EMERGENCY WITH RESPECT TO THE ACTIONS OF
THE GOVERNMENT OF SYRIA

On May 11, 2004, pursuant to his authority under the International
Emergency Economic Powers Act, 50 U.S.C. 1701-1706, and the Syria
Accountability and Lebanese Sovereignty Restoration Act of 2003, Public
Law 108-175, the President issued Executive Order 13338, in which he
declared a national emergency with respect to the actions of the
Government of Syria.  To deal with this national emergency, Executive
Order 13338 authorized the blocking of property of certain persons and
prohibited the exportation or re-exportation of certain goods to Syria. 
The national emergency was modified in scope and relied upon for
additional steps taken in Executive Order 13399 of April 25, 2006,
Executive Order 13460 of February 13, 2008, Executive Order 13572 of
April 29, 2011, Executive Order 13573 of May 18, 2011, Executive Order
13582 of August 17, 2011, Executive Order 13606 of April 22, 2012, and
Executive Order 13608 of May 1, 2012.

The President took these actions to deal with the unusual and
extraordinary threat to the national security, foreign policy, and
economy of the United States constituted by the actions of the
Government of Syria in supporting terrorism, maintaining its
then-existing occupation of Lebanon, pursuing weapons of mass
destruction and missile programs, and undermining United States and
international efforts with respect to the stabilization and
reconstruction of Iraq.

The regime’s brutality and repression of the Syrian people, who have
called for freedom and a representative government, not only endangers
the Syrian people themselves, but also generates instability throughout
the region.  The Syrian regime’s actions and policies, including with
respect to chemical weapons and supporting terrorist organizations, pose
an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security, foreign
policy, and economy of the United States.  As a result, the national
emergency declared on May 11, 2004, and the measures to deal with that
emergency adopted on that date in Executive Order 13338; on April 25,
2006, in Executive Order 13399; on February 13, 2008, in Executive Order
13460; on April 29, 2011, in Executive Order 13572; on May 18, 2011, in
Executive Order 13573; on August 17, 2011, in Executive Order 13582; on
April 22, 2012, in Executive Order 13606; and on May 1, 2012,
in Executive Order 13608, must continue in effect beyond May 11, 2021. 
Therefore, in accordance with section 202(d) of the National Emergencies
Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)), I am continuing for 1 year the national
emergency declared with respect to the actions of the Government of
Syria.

In addition, the United States condemns the Assad regime’s, and its
Russian and Iranian enablers’, brutal violence and human rights
violations and abuses.  The United States calls on the Assad regime and
its backers to stop its violent war against its own people, enact a
nationwide ceasefire, enable the unobstructed delivery of humanitarian
assistance to all Syrians in need, and negotiate a political settlement
in Syria in line with United Nations Security Council Resolution 2254.
 The United States will consider changes in policies and actions of the
Government of Syria in determining whether to continue or terminate this
national emergency in the future.

This notice shall be published in the *Federal Register* and transmitted
to the Congress.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

THE WHITE HOUSE,

   May 6, 2021. 
