---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-05-18'
modified_time: 2021-05-18 17:16:52-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/05/18/a-proclamation-on-national-hepatitis-testing-day-2021/
published_time: 2021-05-18 17:16:51-04:00
title: A Proclamation on National Hepatitis Testing Day, 2021
---
 
Our efforts to combat the COVID-19 pandemic over the past year have
reinforced many public health lessons, including the importance of
communication, community engagement, and a comprehensive testing
strategy to reduce the spread of infection.  These same lessons hold
true for another epidemic affecting our Nation:  the silent epidemic of
viral hepatitis.  Viral hepatitis is a serious, preventable public
health threat that puts people who are infected at increased risk for
serious disease and death.  When left undiagnosed and untreated,
hepatitis B and hepatitis C can cause liver cirrhosis, liver cancer, and
even early death.  Hepatitis D, which occurs only among individuals
infected with hepatitis B, can also cause serious liver disease.  On
this National Hepatitis Testing Day, I call on all Americans who are at
risk for hepatitis to get tested, and for all health care providers to
educate their patients about viral hepatitis.

Our Nation has set a goal to eliminate viral hepatitis by 2030.  Thanks
to Federal investment in medical research, we have the technology and
tools to provide safe and effective hepatitis vaccines and therapeutics
that can reduce mortality and even lead to a cure.  Despite this
progress, an estimated 2.4 million Americans are living with
hepatitis C, and more than 860,000 are living with hepatitis B — many of
whom unknowingly suffer its effects.  Approximately 200,000 Americans
are infected with hepatitis D every year.  Infection with hepatitis D in
an individual already infected with hepatitis B — known as
superinfection — leads to a more rapid progression towards liver
cancer.  We must increase prevention, testing, and awareness to provide
people the life-saving treatment they need.  Because of the Affordable
Care Act, most health insurance plans must cover hepatitis B and
hepatitis C testing with no cost-sharing.

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommends screening and
testing for hepatitis B, hepatitis C, and hepatitis D based on risk,
health status, and pregnancy.  It is important we implement these
recommendations to ensure proper treatment and help stop the spread of
hepatitis.  For more information on the recommendations, visit
cdc.gov/hepatitis.

My Administration is committed to addressing the health disparities and
health inequities, which, as with so many health metrics, are also seen
with viral hepatitis.  Viral hepatitis disproportionately impacts Black
and brown Americans, Indigenous persons, Asian Americans, Native
Hawaiians, and Pacific Islanders.  The interplay of factors such as
poverty, inadequate housing and transportation, food insecurity, access
to care, access to addiction treatment and mental health care, medical
mistrust, language and cultural barriers, stigma, and discrimination
must be addressed if we are to eliminate these health disparities and
advance health equity.  The recently released Viral Hepatitis National
Strategic Plan:  A Roadmap to Elimination is focused on making sure more
people living with viral hepatitis are tested and aware of their status
and providing a roadmap for quality care and treatment.  To read more
about the plan, visit hhs.gov/hepatitis. 

The viral hepatitis epidemic is also linked with other public health
threats, including HIV, sexually transmitted infections, and opioid use.
 Our response to the public health challenges of viral hepatitis, HIV,
sexually transmitted infections, and substance use disorders will
require a focus on the people and places where these risk factors
intersect, and doing more to test people for viral hepatitis and other
infections.  We also need to scale-up vaccinations, testing, and care in
settings where people at risk receive other services.  Implementing
point-of-care testing in outreach settings, utilizing clinical decision
support tools, and increasing provider awareness and training for
implementing testing recommendations will help improve diagnoses and
awareness.  The ability to reduce viral hepatitis infections will depend
on integrated strategies and a comprehensive approach to address our
ongoing challenges.

Viral hepatitis exacts a significant toll on our Nation’s health, and
the stigma and discrimination associated with the disease further impair
the quality of life among those affected.  Today, we reaffirm our
commitment to ensuring everyone knows their viral hepatitis status, has
access to high quality care and treatment, and lives free from stigma
and discrimination.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim May 19, 2021, as
National Hepatitis Testing Day.  I encourage all Americans to join in
activities that will increase awareness about viral hepatitis and
increase viral hepatitis testing. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this eighteenth day of
May, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-fifth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
