---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-05-03'
modified_time: 2021-05-03 11:19:57-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/05/03/a-proclamation-on-older-americans-month-2021/
published_time: 2021-05-03 11:19:56-04:00
title: A Proclamation on Older Americans Month, 2021
---
 
   During Older Americans Month, we celebrate older Americans and the
key role they play in sharing the wisdom and experience that inform
today’s decisions and actions, and fostering the connection and
engagement that build strong, resilient communities.  And, we recognize
our responsibility to ensure that every American has the opportunity to
age with dignity.

     The COVID-19 pandemic has imposed tremendous hardships on our
Nation’s older Americans.  Older adults — particularly those from
communities of color — have comprised the majority of deaths from
COVID-19, with more than 80 percent of all deaths to date occurring in
persons 65 and older.  Many older Americans have also suffered extreme
social isolation from being separated from friends, family, and
community resources throughout the pandemic.  In spite of this, older
Americans have stepped up to support their families, friends, and
neighbors.  They are among our essential workers, volunteers, and
donors, bolstering their communities and inspiring others to do the
same.  I am committed to ensuring older adults are central in our
country’s recovery efforts.  

     My Administration recognizes the value of our older adults and
supports the issues most important to them, such as Medicare, Social
Security, lowering the price of prescription drugs, and long-term care
options — including Medicaid’s home and community-based services
programs.  The American Rescue Plan puts the needs of older Americans at
the forefront of our country’s path to recovery, starting by mounting a
national vaccination program to quickly and efficiently deliver
lifesaving vaccines, prioritizing our older citizens.

     The American Rescue Plan also provides much needed support to
skilled nursing facilities, so they can improve infection control and
vaccination rollout capability by partnering with quality improvement
organizations.  The law allocates funding to support mitigation,
clinical care, infection control, and staffing in long-term care
facilities during the pandemic.  The law also provides significant
funding to support older adults who receive home and community-based
services through Medicaid to help them remain safe and independent in
their own homes and communities throughout the pandemic.

     And, the American Rescue Plan adds substantial funding to programs
authorized under the Older Americans Act.  These programs also connect
older adults and their caregivers to food, health care, and other home
and community-based services.  The American Rescue Plan also calls for
the establishment of the National Technical Assistance Center on
Grandfamilies and Kinship Families, to give much needed aid to those
older Americans who have stepped up to parent the next generation of
Americans.  Finally, the plan enhances the Elder Justice Act and ensures
Adult Protective Services can be used to protect the safety of all
adults as they age.

     As our country works to put COVID-19 behind us, we know there is
more we must do to ensure that older Americans can live and age with
dignity.  We are committed to ensuring older Americans can easily access
appropriate services they need to stay safe and healthy as they age.

     In this year of peril and promise, older Americans have suffered
greatly, and provided inspirational demonstrations of strength.  During
Older Americans Month, we honor these citizens and their continued
contributions.  We commit to learning from them, and we pledge to
support their futures.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim May
2021 as Older Americans Month.  I call upon Americans of all ages to
celebrate older Americans during this month and throughout the year.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this third day of
May, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-fifth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
