---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-05-21'
modified_time: 2021-05-21 17:01:01-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/05/21/a-proclamation-on-national-safe-boating-week-2021/
published_time: 2021-05-21 17:00:59-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on National Safe Boating Week,\_2021"
---
 
Every year, millions of Americans take time to enjoy our Nation’s
waterways — one of our great natural treasures.  As more Americans get
vaccinated against COVID-19, and as warmer weather draws families to our
Nation’s lakes, rivers, and beaches, this week serves as a critical
reminder of the importance of staying safe on the water.  Each year
during National Safe Boating Week, the Coast Guard and an array of
Federal, State, and local partners help save lives and guard against
accidents by highlighting safe boating practices. 

This year, we celebrate the 50th anniversary of the Federal Boat Safety
Act of 1971.  The Act created a partnership between the Federal
Government and the States to improve the safety of recreational boating.
 It also established the National Recreational Boating Safety Program
and gave the Coast Guard the authority to establish mandatory boat
manufacturing and safety standards.  The Coast Guard estimates that
these efforts have saved nearly 100,000 lives over the last half
century.

While most boating trips are enjoyable and safe, tragedy still strikes
with alarming frequency.  Since 2000, there have been over 13,000
boating-related deaths and over 64,000 boating-related injuries, many of
which could have been prevented if proper safety precautions were taken.
 Whether you are fishing, sailing, or out on the water with family or
friends, it is essential to follow safe boating practices for your own
protection and the protection of those around you.

Safe boating begins with education and planning.  Human error
contributes to the vast majority of boating accidents, which can be
minimized by taking an “on-water” boating safety course.  Learning and
improving your boating skills help increase the odds of an enjoyable and
safe boating experience.  Every American can ensure that their boat is
ready for the water by obtaining a free vessel safety check offered
through the U.S. Coast Guard Auxiliary.

I call upon all Americans to follow safe boating practices.  By
following basic boating safety procedures — wearing life jackets,
carrying lifesaving emergency distress and communications equipment,
judiciously using the engine cut-off switch, and staying sober when
boating — we can prevent the vast majority of boating fatalities and
help ensure boaters on America’s coastal, inland, and offshore waters
stay safe throughout the season.

In recognition of the importance of safe boating practices, the
Congress, by joint resolution approved June 4, 1958 (36 U.S.C. 131), as
amended, has authorized and requested the President to proclaim annually
the 7-day period before Memorial Day weekend as “National Safe Boating
Week.”

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, do hereby proclaim May 22 through May 28, 2021, as National
Safe Boating Week.  I encourage all Americans who participate in boating
activities to observe this occasion by learning and practicing safe
boating behaviors.  I also encourage the Governors of the States and
Territories, and appropriate officials of all units of government, to
join me in encouraging boating safety through events and activities.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-first day of
May, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-fifth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
