---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-05-06'
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/05/06/notice-on-the-continuation-of-the-national-emergency-with-respect-to-the-stabilization-of-iraq/
published_time: 2021-05-06 17:58:53-04:00
title: "Notice on the Continuation of the National Emergency with Respect to the Stabilization\
  \ of\_Iraq"
---
 
On May 22, 2003, by Executive Order 13303, the President declared a
national emergency pursuant to the International Emergency Economic
Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 *et seq*.), to deal with the unusual and
extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of the
United States posed by obstacles to the orderly reconstruction of Iraq,
the restoration and maintenance of peace and security in the country,
and the development of political, administrative, and economic
institutions in Iraq.

The obstacles to the orderly reconstruction of Iraq, the restoration and
maintenance of peace and security in the country, and the development of
political, administrative, and economic institutions in Iraq continue to
pose an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and
foreign policy of the United States.  For this reason, the national
emergency declared in Executive Order 13303, as modified in scope and
relied upon for additional steps taken in Executive Order 13290 of March
20, 2003, Executive Order 13315 of August 28, 2003, Executive Order
13350 of July 29, 2004, Executive Order 13364 of November 29, 2004,
Executive Order 13438 of July 17, 2007, and Executive Order 13668 of May
27, 2014, must continue in effect beyond May 22, 2021.  Therefore, in
accordance with section 202(d) of the National Emergencies Act (50
U.S.C. 1622(d)), I am continuing for 1 year the national emergency
with respect to the stabilization of Iraq declared in Executive Order
13303.

This notice shall be published in the *Federal Register* and transmitted
to the Congress.  
                               

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.   

THE WHITE HOUSE,  
May 6, 2021. 
