---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-05-07'
modified_time: 2021-05-12 09:45:24-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/05/07/a-proclamation-on-peace-officers-memorial-day-and-police-week-2021/
published_time: 2021-05-07 19:00:00-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on Peace Officers Memorial Day and Police Week,\_2021"
---
 
Every day, we ask a great deal of the men and women of our Nation’s law
enforcement agencies; from ensuring public safety, to serving as
front-line workers, to responding to incidents involving domestic
violence, substance use disorders, mental health challenges, and
homelessness, often with limited resources.  Every morning, our Nation’s
law enforcement officers pin on a badge and go to work, not knowing what
the day will bring, and hoping to come home safely.  This year, even as
the COVID-19 pandemic took a physical, mental, and emotional toll, our
officers, deputies, and troopers demonstrated courage and dedication in
continuing to support our communities.  As we recognize Peace Officers
Memorial Day and Police Week, we honor those who lost their lives in the
line of duty, and thank them on behalf of this grateful Nation for their
service.

The economic toll of the COVID-19 pandemic has strained State, local,
and Tribal budgets — forcing many communities to stretch their funding,
consider layoffs, and reduce public services.  My Administration will
support our Nation’s law enforcement agencies and officers and work to
ensure they have the resources and research tools they need to do their
jobs successfully and the funding necessary to enhance officer safety
and wellness, including improving access to mental health services.  We
will also continue to bolster initiatives that protect our law
enforcement officers’ physical safety — including those that provide for
bulletproof vests and active shooter training. 

This year, we also recognize that in many of our communities, especially
Black and brown communities, there is a deep sense of distrust towards
law enforcement; a distrust that has been exacerbated by the recent
deaths of several Black and brown people at the hands of law
enforcement.  These deaths have resulted in a profound fear, trauma,
pain, and exhaustion for many Black and brown Americans, and the
resulting breakdown in trust between law enforcement and the communities
they have sworn to protect and serve ultimately makes officers’ jobs
harder and more dangerous as well.  In order to rebuild that trust, our
State, local, and Federal Government and law enforcement agencies must
protect constitutional rights, ensure accountability for misconduct, and
embrace policing that reflects community values and ensures community
safety.  These approaches benefit those who wear the badge and those who
count on their protection.

We must also stop tasking law enforcement with problems that are far
beyond their jurisdictions.  From providing emergency health care to
resolving school discipline issues, our communities rely on the police
to perform services that often should be the duty of other institutions.
 We then accuse the police of failure when responsibility lies with
public policy choices they did not make.  Supporting our law enforcement
officers requires that we invest in underfunded public systems that
provide health care, counseling, housing, education, and other social
services.

There are many ways we can demonstrate appreciation for our law
enforcement heroes.  We recognize acts of bravery through the Public
Safety Officer Medal of Valor and the Law Enforcement Congressional
Badge of Bravery.  We must also acknowledge the challenge and value of
their service through the Law Enforcement Mental Health and Wellness Act
of 2017 and the Supporting and Treating Officers in Crisis Act of 2019.
 Should tragedy strike, Public Safety Officers’ benefits must be
available for the families of officers who lose their lives or are
catastrophically injured in the line of duty.

This country asks much of our Federal, State, Tribal, and local police
officers and deputies, and it is our solemn responsibility to ensure
that those who protect and serve have the training, resources, and
support they need to do their jobs well.  My Administration will do
everything we can to support the men and women who so courageously
protect us. 

By a joint resolution approved October 1, 1962, as amended (76 Stat.
676), and by Public Law 103-322, as amended (36 U.S.C. 136-137), the
President has been authorized and requested to designate May 15 of each
year as “Peace Officers Memorial Day” and the week in which it falls as
“Police Week.”

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, do hereby proclaim May 15, 2021, as Peace Officers Memorial
Day and May 9 through May 15, 2021, as Police Week.  I call upon all
Americans to observe these events with appropriate ceremonies and
activities. I further encourage all Americans to display the flag from
their homes and businesses on that day.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this seventh day of May,
in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the Independence
of the United States of America the two hundred and forty-fifth.  
                             

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
