---
date: '2024-03-11'
modified_time: 2024-03-12 12:12:22-04:00
published_time: 2024-03-11 23:10:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/03/11/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-a-campaign-event-san-francisco-ca/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at a Campaign Event | San Francisco,\_CA"
---
 
*Fairmont San Francisco Hotel  
San Francisco, California*

2:07 P.M. PDT

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.  Please have a seat.  Please have a
seat.

Is this on?  It is on?  Now it’s on.

Good afternoon, everyone.  It is good to be home, and it’s good to be
with so many friends.  I lost my voice somewhere along the five states
that I’ve been in the last five days.  (Laughter.)  But I intend to find
it again, so don’t worry.  Otherwise, all is good.

Sheldon — where is he?  There you are.  Thank you.  And Adrienne, thank
you both and all of you for hosting us today and for the support.

You know, I was talking with the group and the host — and, again, I
thank you all — outside.  You know, there is so much about this
movement, the environmental movement, that we proudly and rightly call
our own in terms of those of us who are in the Bay Area — live in the
Bay Area, were born in the Bay Area. 

And the work that you all, then, are doing as a group and as individuals
really is reflective of a movement that was borne out of a sense of
urgency, a sense of understanding about what is at stake, but a movement
that has really grown in an incredible way, that has incorporated all of
the beauty of — of what we do in terms of a commitment to innovation;
what we do in terms of rejecting the notions and the false choices that
suggest that if we are going to be kind to our climate, that somehow
that is contrary to strengthening our economy.

The work that you all are doing has been about innovation, about a
commitment to our climate, and it has been about job creation and
strengthening economies and creating new economies.  I am so excited
about the clean energy economy and the work that is happening right here
in the Bay area and around our country that is spurring and encouraging
and — and, in some way, inciting innovation around the world.

I’ve been traveling a lot, both within our country and — and
internationally.  Most recently, I was in Munich presenting at the
Munich Security Conference.  But I’ll recall for you the last Munich
Security Conference in \`23. 

And after I gave a presentation that was mostly about our concern about
what Ru- — Russia has been doing in Ukraine, I was on the stage taking
questions.  And it was shortly after we passed the Inflation Reduction
Act, which we’ve talked about it and you all helped pass. 

And there among our allies — because, of course, the Munich Security
Conference is really about NATO and our commitment to a military
alliance and our commitment to our allies around the world.  But there
on the stage in Munich at the Munich Security Conference, I was asked
questions about the Inflation Reduction Act in a way that suggested that
what we were doing as the United States of America was somehow contrary
to our commitment to our partnerships around the world when we invest in
American businesses and when we invest in a clean energy economy.

And I said, then — and I didn’t have to do it again this year because it
became clear.  And I said, then: No, our commitment is about investing
in our workforce, investing in innovation, investing in the businesses
that will do this work, understanding and knowing and intending that it
will benefit the entire world, both because of what you are modeling in
terms of how these businesses work and can create opportunity and
innovate and imagine what can be unburdened by what has been, but also
what we are doing in terms of a commitment to innovation that we are
then sharing with the world in a way that they can replicate and use to
then build on that to create the next thing.

It’s very exciting what is happening in our country in a way that is not
only, again, about strengthening communities but also what we are doing
as a model for the world.  So, I’m very excited about what’s happening.

And we, of course, have an election coming up.  (Laughter.)   And on
this subject and so many others, I will tell you, there is a big, big
difference in terms of how we think and approach this issue of
addressing our climate, investing in our economies in a way that we
create a thriving clean energy economy.  There’s a big difference.

Sadly, with the Inflation Reduction Act — sadly, not one Republican in
Congress voted for it, because this has somehow become a partisan
issue.  When we look at where we are in terms of the contrast on issues
about what we should do in terms of an investment in a way that we call
out what historically has happened in terms of greenwashing, in terms of
denial, in terms of delay, in smart and aggressive public policy on
these issues, there’s a big difference.

And so, when we think about this election on this and so many others, I
challenge people always, you know, throw up the split screen.  Because
on the one hand, with our administration, the Biden-Harris
administration, we are committed to and have shown our commitment to
investing in what we know is actually for the best interest of our
children and our grandchildren yet to come and is in the best interest
of growing economies and is in the best interest of upskilling the
workforce and training the workforce.

And on the other hand, you have a situation where there has been denial
and delay and greenwashing on so many of these issues in terms of how we
actually get the job done.  So, I am thankful to all of you for the
support that you are giving our reelection and the work that we are
doing.

I also have to say that, as many of you know, we are also fighting on
such a fundamental level for our democracy.  You know, there is right
now in our country a f- — an agenda, I believe, that is about a full-on
attack on hard-won freedoms and rights. 

And I do believe, in this election, that each of us are being called
upon to make a decision that is an answer to the question: What kind of
country do we want to live in?  Do we want to live in a country that is
guided by foundational principles that include the importance of freedom
and liberty and justice and equality, or not? 

Many of this is at stake.  I was in Selma, Alabama, recently
commemorating — commemorating Bloody Sunday, which was a day 59 years
ago when a group of young civil rights leaders were trying to cross the
Edmund Pettus Bridge to stand up and march for the right of people to
have the freedom to have access to the ballot box, the freedom to vote.

In our country right now, there is a full-on attack against the freedom
to vote.  In states like Georgia, do you know they’ve passed a law that
make it illegal to give people food and water if they are standing in
line to vote?  I was with a group of pastors recently, and I looked at
them and I said, “What happened to ‘love thy neighbor’?”  (Laughter.)

We look at what is happening in terms of our young people.  And, you
know, I have to tell you — I’ll confess — I love Gen Z.  I love Gen Z. 
I really do.  (Laughter.)  I know it’s a difficult issue for some of us
— (laughter) — but I do.  And here’s why: Because when I look at them —
and I just did a college tour last fall, and I met over 15,000
college-age students.  I actually did colleges and universities, and I
did trade schools. 

And here’s the thing about that generation.  And it’s quite humbling,
because, you know, if somebody is 18 today, you know what year they were
born?  2006.  (Laughter.)  Think about that.  (Laughs.)  Think about
that.

But theirs is a lived experience to only know the climate crisis. 
They’ve only known the climate crisis.  They have coined a term “climate
anxiety” to describe the anxiety they feel that causes them to question
whether they should have children, whether they should ever aspire to
buy a home for fear that some extreme weather will take it out.  It’s a
lived experience for them, this issue. 

It’s a lived experience that from kindergarten to 12th grade — I would
ask them when I would go to the schools — thousands of kids came.  I’d
ask them, “Raise your hand if, at any time between kindergarten and 12th
grade, you had to endure an active shooter drill.”  Almost every hand
went up. 

It’s a lived experience for them that they are afraid of gun violence
and want so desperately that we’d just do reasonable things, like pass
an assault weapons ban, background checks, red flag laws. 

It’s a lived experience for them that during — you know, parents, it’s
difficult to hear this — but during the height of their reproductive
years, that they saw the highest court in our land take a fundamental
right from the people of America, from the women of America — the right
to just make decisions about your own body and not have the government
tell you what to do.

And I say all that to say, then, that there is a very real split screen
in terms of where we are on so many of these fundamental issues and the
other side. 

The very likely nominee, the former President of the United States, on
the last issue that I mentioned — not to mention the earlier issues —
you know, he has said he is proud of the fact that he hand-selected
three members of the United States Supreme Court with the intention that
they would undo Roe v. Wade.  He said he is proud of doing that.

Think about it.  Proud of the fact that laws have been proposed and
passed that criminalize healthcare providers — literally, in Texas,
provide prison for life for a doctor or a nurse who administers care. 
Proud of the fact that people of this generation have fewer rights than
their mothers and grandmothers.

So, the split screen is real on so many issues.  And then, just
recently, on the issue of Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid.  You know
how many people in our country are seniors who live a whole, productive
life and put money into Social Security, and now you’re saying, “Oh, it
could be on the table for cuts”?  Medicare and Medicaid?

The split screen on this, we have just allowed Medicare to negotiate
drug prices for seniors so that finally their medication could be capped
at $2,000 a year.  You know how many of our seniors that I have met in
my travels over the years who either would try and get on a bus to go to
Canada to buy their mes- — medication or make real decisions about
whether they will either fill a doctor’s prescription or fill their
refrigerator?

So, I say there’s so much at stake in this election.  And what you all
are doing to support what I think is about standing for our democracy is
very real. 

And I’ll en- — I’ll end with one point, which is: I think there’s a
certain perversion that is happening right now to suggest that the
measure of the sign of strength of a leader is based on who you beat
down instead of what I think you all know, because I know your work —
measured based on who you lift up.

And so, these are very real issues that we are being presented with in
this election.  And ultimately, again, I’ll say: This is a moment where
it is incumbent on each of us to decide what kind of country do we want
to live in.

And with that, again, I thank you all, because I think I have an an- — a
knowledge about your answer to that question.  (Laughter.)

Thank you.  (Applause.)

END
