---
date: '2024-03-01'
modified_time: 2024-03-01 14:00:58-05:00
published_time: 2024-03-01 14:00:57-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/03/01/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-on-historic-investments-in-strengthening-entrepreneurship-increasing-access-to-capital-and-supporting-small-businesses-durham-nc/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris on Historic Investments in Strengthening\
  \ Entrepreneurship, Increasing Access to Capital, and Supporting Small Businesses\
  \ | Durham,\_NC"
---
 
*Ella West Gallery  
Durham, North Carolina*

12:59 P.M. EST  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.  Thank you, Wally.  
  
Let me first start by thanking the governor, Roy Cooper.  Many of you
know, he and I served as attorneys general together many years ago.  So,
I have known the governor’s work for a very long time.  And you’ve been
an extraordinary partner to the President and me, leading this beautiful
state of North Carolina.  
  
And the governor, I think, every time I arrive in North Carolina as Vice
President, has met me on the tarmac.  And he is keeping track of my
visits and has informed me this is my 10th visit to North Carolina as
Vice President.  And — and I’m really happy to be back.   
  
And I want to thank the Deputy Secretary, because we have done a lot of
work together.  And you are always fighting for the people in a very
real way, understanding the connection between access to opportunity and
growth.   
  
And that is real, because it also understands that not everyone has
access to opportunity.  But when provided with access, the talent is
there, the capacity is there, the drive is there, the ambition is there,
and growth and economic growth results.   
  
So, that is the math, in terms of what we are talking about.  It is
about meeting the capacity of communities with the resources that are
necessary to strengthen our economy.  And we all benefit from that
work.  We all benefit from an economy that is strong.   
  
So, I want to take ev- — I want to thank everybody here, including all
of the investors who have really — I — I was so happy to share your
stories and — and to know about your passion and your commitment and
your drive and — and your high level of expectation that you are also
meeting with the resources that are necessary to grow and incentivize
these businesses.   
  
And to be here on historic Black Wall Street — this district in Durham
is really — it’s — it — actually, I — I just stand here thinking of what
has happened here over the years, both in terms of the strength of the
community and then the challenges and the obstacles that were presented
to this community, but how it has rebounded in such an extraordinary
way.  
  
And as the governor has said, over the past three years, the President
and I have been very intentional about the work that we are doing to
invest in communities in many ways, including through small businesses. 

Thus far, we have invested more than $3 billion in the entrepreneurs and
small businesses here in North Carolina.  And that investment has
included billions of dollars in small business loans for thousands of
small businesses in North Carolina. 

And I want to emphasize: When I say small businesses, I am including in
that group entrepreneurs, those who have extraordinary ideas, often that
involve technology, with an eye towards what we need to do with the
climate crisis and things of that nature; startups. 

We have, through those $3 billion, also invested hundreds of millions of
dollars for North Carolina Community Banks, building on the work, as the
Deputy Secretary said, that I did as a senator when we invested over $12
billion nationally in community banks.  And the investment in community
banks here in Durham includes 8- — $80 million for M&F Bank just down
the street.

The investment of $3 billion also includes millions of dollars from the
Economic Opportunity Coalition that I launched in 2022.  And this is,
again, testament to the leaders who are here who are private-sector
investors and are matching and working with us through federal
investments to reach a capacity that is extraordinary in terms of
pooling together these federal dollars with these private
investments.   
  
And I would like to thank them, because it has been a coalition of
groups that include nonprofits, banks, and technology companies who have
all worked with us and worked with our administration once we created
this coalition to, again, maximize the resources that can go to
communities like this. 

And that brings me, then, to today, where we are announcing a new
investment of $92 million primarily for early-stage startups here in
North Carolina.  (Applause.)   
  
And we’re very excited about it because this is just further testament
to the capacity is — that is here that is calling for this kind of
attention and these resources.  It is testament to the innovation that
is occurring right here and the need, then, for us to, from Washington,
D.C., understand how the nation benefits when we show the capacity of
communities when they receive this kind of support and investment.  And
we are talking about clean energy companies, we are talking about AI, we
are talking about technology companies in general.   
  
And this is in addition to the 32 — so, the $32 million from the
President and — and my administration — the President and our
administration matched by $60 million from private sector venture
capital partners, some of whom, again, are here today.   
  
And separately, many here may know, the President and I, from the
beginning of our administration, made a pledge, which we are on track to
meet, to increase by 50 percent federal contracts going to
minority-owned businesses.   
  
This is consistent — (applause) — with everything that is about the work
that we are announcing today, in that we understand that, traditionally,
minority-owned businesses have received a fraction of federal contracts
— often because the relationships are not there; the access, therefore,
is not there; but the talent exists.   
  
And so, our pledge to increase by 50 percent federal contracts going to
minority-owned businesses is an acknowledgement of the fact that we must
be intentional when we think about: Where are the greatest returns on
investment?   
  
And ultimately, yes, this is about the right thing to do.  It is a good
thing to do.  But ultimately, it makes economic and financial sense for
us to do this work.  Because the bottom line — and yes, the bottom line,
I speak in economic terms — is that this produces an extraordinary
return on investment.   
  
And that is, as much as any other reason, why we are doing this work
together with our partners.   
  
So, again, I want to thank everyone for your leadership, for the
inspiration, and for the model that Durham is providing for the rest of
the country around these kinds of partnerships.  Thank you all. 
(Applause.)    
  
                               END                 1:07 P.M. EST
