---
date: '2024-03-24'
published_time: 2024-03-24 00:49:22-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/03/24/remarks-as-prepared-for-delivery-by-first-lady-jill-biden-at-the-human-rights-campaign-2024-los-angeles-dinner/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks as Prepared for Delivery by First Lady Jill\_Biden at the Human Rights\
  \ Campaign 2024 Los Angeles\_Dinner"
---
 
Los Angeles, CA

Thank you, Kelley. You and Becky are such an amazing power couple. Joe
and I have really enjoyed getting to know you both. You have quickly
established yourself as an inspiring leader of HRC, and we need you to
continue to lead us with your grace and grit.

Good evening, everyone – you all look fabulous!

David Mixner meant so much to so many in this room, so I’d like to begin
with his words: “You can walk through fear and be the one who describes
colors of the sunset to those who sat back on the porch, or you can sit
back on the porch and have the colors of the sunset described to you.”

You, the people in this room, have seen the colors of the sunset. You
have walked through fear. And you’ve helped so many others do the same.
It’s an honor to celebrate with you tonight.

When I was growing up in a suburb of Philadelphia and dreamed of what my
life would become, I knew I wanted two things: a marriage like my
parents – strong and loving and full of laughter – and a career.

I set out to find those things, but my path was a bit meandering.

It was the seventies – perhaps some of you remember: Vietnam, love
beads, equal rights.

I wore my hair down to my waist, and so did most of the men I dated!

One day, I was asked on a date from out of the blue, and that evening, a
handsome young Senator showed up at my door. I took one look at his
perfect suit and his leather loafers and thought: well, it’s only one
date.

One date eventually turned into a marriage proposal.

OK, if I’m being honest, it was five proposals. This was not a part of
my plan!

And more than that, it wasn’t just my heart on the line.

As many of you know, years before, Joe’s wife, Neilia, and baby daughter
were killed in a car accident. The boys, Beau and Hunter, had to be in
the hospital for many months, and after all that they had lost, I knew
that if I said yes to Joe, it had to be forever.  Eventually, I realized
that my love for Joe and the boys outweighed any fears I had. And I said
yes.

I’ll never forget what Joe said next. He said, “Jill, I promise you,
your life will never change.”

Of course, this proved to be wildly untrue. Life is change. We learn and
grow. We overcome heartbreaks we never could have imagined. We find
wisdom, and grit, and empathy. This community knows that well – and
while we’ve changed so much – made progress, there’s still so much more
to do.

And, we can’t and won’t go back and refight the fights of the past.

Today, this community is under attack. Rights are being stripped away.
Freedoms are eroding. More and more state laws are being passed
targeting this community.

Just last night, we had to fend off more than 50 anti-gay amendments
that Republicans tried to force into the government funding bill.

These were extreme measures aimed directly at this community – measures
that would have limited healthcare, eroded protections for same-sex
couples, and more. And they served only one purpose: to spread hate and
fear.

History teaches us that democracies don’t disappear overnight.

They disappear slowly. Subtly. Silently.

A book ban. A court decision. A “don’t say gay” law.

Before World War II, I’m told, Berlin was the center of LGBTQ culture in
Europe.

One group of people loses their rights. And then another, and another.

Until one morning you wake up – and you no longer live in a democracy.

Laws and attitudes can lead to devastating consequences – harm that
can’t be undone, that leaves parents torn by grief. Parents and
grandparents like Sue Benedict – may Nex rest in peace – and the
countless others who have lost LGBTQ children to suicide, bullying, and
hate. Parents who have stood by their kids, loved them, learned from
them, but who will never have another tomorrow with them.

This is our chapter of history – and it’s up to us how it ends.

This isn’t the first time we have been tested. We have faced unspeakable
tragedies before. An assassination in San Francisco. A barren field in
Wyoming. A nightclub in Orlando.

And each time, we have persevered, we have pulled ourselves up from the
depths of despair – with hope, with grace, and with love.

Our victories testify to that strength.

Thanks to President Biden, marriage equality is now the law of the land.
He ended the ban on gay and bisexual men donating blood. He’s made it
possible for trans Americans to serve openly, honorably in the military.
And he’s standing firmly against conversion therapy.

There are victories in the small moments too – moments that would have
been unimaginable just a few decades ago: Being free to walk down the
street as your authentic self. Co-workers that use your chosen name and
pronouns. Communities that support you and understand you.

Yes, the MAGA extremists are seeking to erase these hard-fought gains,
trying to unwind all the progress we’ve made.

They want us to be afraid.

They want to take our victories away, but we won’t let them. Your
President won’t let them.  I won’t let them.

We’re going to fight. And we will win.

Today, tomorrow, and all the days after, until all people in all places
can live freely, surrounded by love.

I love you.

Your President, President Biden loves you. 

Thank you for sharing this time with me.

\###
