---
date: '2024-03-17'
modified_time: 2024-03-18 11:00:49-04:00
published_time: 2024-03-17 22:53:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/03/17/remarks-by-president-biden-and-taoiseach-leo-varadkar-of-ireland-at-a-st-patricks-day-celebration/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden and Taoiseach Leo Varadkar of Ireland at a St.\
  \ Patrick\u2019s Day\_Celebration"
---
 
East Room

5:25 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT:  Hello, hello, hello.

AUDIENCE:  Hello.

THE PRESIDENT:  We’ve got a great guest with us today.  (Applause.)  We
— we ought to change the rules in the United States: When St. Patrick’s
Day falls on a Sunday, the next day is a holiday.  (Laughter.)

On behalf of the Finnegans of County Louth and the Blewitts of County
Mayo — (applause) — my mother, Catherine Eugenia Finnegan Biden of
Scranton, Pennsylvania — welcome — welcome to St. Patrick’s Day at the
White House.  (Applause.)

The Taoiseach and I extend a hundred thousand welcomes to you, all you —
every one of you.  Whether you’re Irish or whether you wish you were
Irish — (laughter) — we’re very glad you’re all here.

Look, St. Patrick’s Day is about friendship.  And we have many friends
here today, because St. Patrick is a moment that — great unity in
Washington.  Whether you’re from the red state or a blue state, on this
day, you’re Irish green.  And so — (laughter and applause). 

We’re joined by members of Congress, as well as members of my Cabinet. 

Claire Cronin is here, our ambassador, who’s doing — (applause) —
Claire, you’re doing great work.  

And, of course, our guest of honor, the Taoiseach.  It’s wonderful to
welcome you and Matthew back to the White House.  (Applause.) 

We’ve spent a lot of — quite a lot of time together on this visit,
visiting Capitol Hill, sharing laughs at the Gridiron Dinner.  Kamala
had you over for breakfast as well.  And on top of all that, yesterday
Ireland won the Six Nations rugby (inaudible).  (Applause.)   
  
My whole family is so excited because two of my cousins who no longer
play for the team — they were great stars — you won anyway.  (Laughter.)

It’s been a great visit that captures how strong the friendship is
between our countries.  

Look, we also have friends here today from Northern Ireland: the First
Minister and Deputy First Minister — Michelle, Emma.  Where are you,
Michelle?  (Applause.)  It’s great to have you here. 

And I was very happy to see Northern Ireland’s Executive Assembly
reinstated last month.  Now, Northern Ireland has a fully functioning
government again.  And — I didn’t (inaudible) your colleague.

Young people of Northern Ireland represent the great peace dividend of
the Belfast/Good Friday Agreement — the entire generation whose hearts
have been shaped not by grievances of the past but by confidence in a
better future that we’re writing together. 

The United States believes — believes in that future. 

Joe Kennedy is here tonight, along w- — (applause) —  that’s okay, Joe
Joe; you only have 57 here — (laughter) — along with dozens of family
members (inaudible).  He’s leading the charge to ramp up investments in
Northern Ireland, because economic opportunity is going to help make the
benefits of peace real and lasting.  And from one big Irish Catholic
family to another, it’s great to have the Kennedys here (inaudible). 
(Applause.)   

Folks, St. Patrick’s Day is a joyful occasion.  It’s a time to remember
with pride our ties to the Emerald Isle — the land of poets and
dreamers, fierce fighters, hard workers who endured decades of poverty
and subjugation and pers- — and persevered through it all, because the
Irish spirit can never — can never — can never be overcome.

Folks, we remember with awe the waves of Irish immigrants who had the
courage to travel across the sea, because they believed, as the poet
Seamus Heaney once wrote, “a further shore is reachable from here” —
that’s what he wrote about — “a further shore is reachable from here.” 
They arrived in America with little more than hope in their hearts and
the strength of their dreams.  Their sweat is soaked into the
foundations of this country. 

As I said at the State of the Union, America has a heart and soul that
draws in the old and the new — home to people of every place on Earth —
from every place on Earth.  We all come from somewhere, but we’re all
Americans.  We can never forget that.  That’s the critical element that
binds us together.  

And this year, Ireland and the United States mark a milestone: 100 years
of diplom- — diplomatic relations between our countries.  One hundred
years.  I was not — (applause) — I want to make clear: I wasn’t there at
the hundredth.  (Laughter.) 

In that time, the ties between us have deepened and multiplied.  Our
economic partnership has grown tremendously — in both directions, I
might add.  Ireland now is one of the top 10 investors in the United
States’ economy.

And our countries stand — stand proudly for liberty and against
tyranny.  We stand together and oppose Russia’s brutal war of aggression
in Ukraine.  You can clap for that, please.  (Applause.)  We’ve got to
get this done. 

And the Taoiseach and I agree about the urgent need to increase
humanitarian aid in Gaza and get the ceasefire deal — (applause) — to
get a ceasefire deal that brings our — brings the hostages home and move
toward a two-state solution, which is the only path — the only path for
a lasting peace and security.  

Folks, my friends, since the last time we celebrated St.  Patrick’s Day
together, I made the trip of a lifetime back home to Belfast in 202- —
the 25th anniversary of the peace accords; then to County Louth where I
visited the church where my ancestors were baptized; then to Dublin for
a speech at the Irish Parliament; and, finally, to County Mayo, to the
town called Ballina. 

There, a huge cathedral — St. Murdoch’s — right on the banks of the
River Moy.  One of the men who helped build that was Edward Blewitt, my
great-great-great-grandfather.  He worked in the town — in the town
brickyard.   
  
In 1828, he was paid — and they gave me a receipt — 21 pounds and 12
shillings to help supply the bricks for that cathedral.  It was made
able to touch — I was — it was made, and I was able to touch some of it
with my own hands, the very bricks he made. 

And all I could think was this: I’m sure \[as\] Edward labored, he
imagined that one day his family would worship at that cathedral, that
his children would be baptized there, that future generations of his
family would make milestone — mark milestones there.  But I doubt he
imagined, nearly 200 years later, his great-great-great-grandson would
return to the cathedral as President of the United States of America. 
(Applause.)

On that trip, before I got there, I toured Carlingford Castle — as you
remember — in County Louth — Taoiseach.  It was likely one of the last
glimpses of Ireland that my Finnegan ancestors saw when they sailed away
to new lives — for new lives in America.  They left in the port of Newry
in the year 1850. 

And here’s an amazing fact.  It turns out that \[is\] the exact same
port Barack Obama’s ancestors sailed from.  They left five weeks
earlier, his ancestors.  They were nearly on the same ship.  Both of our
great-great-great-great-grandchildren — both of their
great-great-\[great\]-grandchildren ended up President of the United
States of America.  It’s remarkable.  (Applause.) 

Stories like these are why I often say the Irish are the only people who
are nostalgic about the future.  (Laughter.)  We believe in better
tomorrows and we’ve always — looking for the next horizon.  That’s a
very American trait as well. 

Just more proof that the bonds between Ireland and the United States run
deep — our joys, our sorrows, our passions, our dreams, our optimism. 
Even the most — in the most difficult moments, we hold onto hope. 
That’s what we do.  We see the world of unlimited possibilities, a
future that knows no bounds.  And we’re writing that future now, and
we’re doing it together, Ireland and America, just as we have for
generations.  

Let me end with this.  As I said on St. Patrick’s Day, at the core of
our friend- — at the core of our friendship, I remember the words — the
words of another great Irish poet, William Butler Yeats, who said,
“Think where man’s glory most begins and ends and say my glory was I had
such friends.” 

We celebrate the bonds of our friendship today, connecting millions of
Irish <s>Americans</s> and the American people.  We celebrate the
friendship between two great nations — one that has shaped our past and
strengthened our present and inspires our future. 

So, happy St. Patrick’s Day, everybody. 

And now, I’d like to welcome the Taoiseach to the podium.  (Applause.)

TAOISEACH VARADKAR:  Mr. President, senators, representatives, deputies,
MLAs, ladies and gentlemen, dear friends, *a chairde.*

Before I start, I just wanted to very briefly acknowledge two special
guests who flew here to be here today.  They are Ed Guiney and Andrew
Lowe from Element Pictures, who made us very proud by winning four
Oscars.  So — (applause).  So, thank you both so much for the
encouragement that you give to other artists and other producers, and
it’s great to have you here today.

Mr. President, nearly 250 years ago, Irishmen fought as part of your
independence struggle.  And exactly 100 years ago, the United States
became the first country to formally recognize the newly independent
Irish state and establish diplomatic relations.  The exchange of
ambassadors recognized the sacred promise that had been made between our
peoples, forged over centuries, and reflecting the powerful bond between
our countries.

This week, meeting so many proud Irish Americans, I’ve been thinking a
lot about sacred promises.  And I’ve been thinking, in particular, of
the words of one courageous Irish American, a lawyer and a decorated war
hero, who spoke so elo- — eloquently about the sacred promises that we
make as leaders.   
  
To quote his words, “It’s about the promises we make to our children,
who deserve a chance to succeed” — the promises we make to each other,
the sacred promise to work for a better future for all.  Those were the
words of Beau Biden.  (Applause.)

And I know when we’re elected to office, we each make a sacred promise
to our communities, our party, our country, to ourselves, and we
dedicate ourselves to honor it — not always succeeding, but always doing
our best, no matter how challenging the circumstances.

President Biden, one of your country’s most sacred promises is to defend
the principles of democracy and freedom against tyranny and oppression. 
And when Ukraine was invaded, you honored that promise and stood firm
against an adversary who tore up the rulebook of international law and
repudiated our sacred humanity. 

So, on behalf of Ireland and the wider European community, we commend
your leadership and reaffirm that Europe stands with you and with
Ukraine for as long as it takes.  (Applause.)

The battle lines are 5,000 miles away, but if Ukraine loses, Putin will
soon threaten others closer to home.  Dictators cannot be appeased. 
Dictators can only be defeated.  And liberty must prevail.  (Applause.)

This evening, in this White House, I’m also reminded by the words of
another great Irish American president, John F.  Kennedy, who spoke to
the Oireachtas — the Irish Parliament — in the final months of his
life.   
  
President Kennedy issued a challenge to the Irish nation to be the
protector of the weak and small.  And when somebody dies before their
time, as he did, their words can assume a kind of prophecy, a sort of
sacred promise for the future.

As a country, we’ve tried to live up to the mission he set for us when
he predicted that one day we would have something to give the world, “a
future of peace with freedom.”  And those words resonate even more
strongly today.

And tonight, let us all reflect on the words of President Kennedy when
he urged us to do the most important work of peace in protecting the
weak and small.  And as he said in the Irish Parliament, “from Cork to
Congo, from Galway to the Gaza Strip.”

President Biden, wh- — when we met on Friday, we spoke of our shared
hope for Israeli and Palestinian states living side by side in peace and
security. 

And I’ve always believed that America is a force for good in the world. 
You’ve helped to advance liberty and democracy around the globe.  You
saved Europe and the world from fascism in the 1940s, from communism
after that.  You stopped ethnic cleansing in Kosovo and Bosnia and
helped bring peace to Ireland and unification to Germany.  And today,
you stand with us in our fight to save democracy and freedom in Ukraine.

Mr. President, as you know, the Irish people are deeply troubled about
the catastrophe that’s unhol- — unfolding before our eyes in Gaza.  And
when I travel the world, leaders often ask me why the Irish have such
empathy for the Palestinian people.  And the answer is simple: We see
our history in their eyes — a story of displacement, of dispossession
and national identity questioned and denied, forced emigration,
discrimination, and now hunger.

So, we support your work and that of your administration to secure a
humanitarian ceasefire and create — to create the space for lasting
peace. 

The people of Gaza desperately need food, medicine, and shelter.  And
most especially, they need the bombs to stop.  This has to stop, on both
sides, the hostages brought home, and humanitarian relief allowed in. 
(Applause.)

Israel must reverse its precipitous decision to authorize a land
incursion into Rafah. 

And after 100 years of violence, as you said, the only secure future
lies in two states, peaceful and sovereign, side by side.  And Ireland
stands ready to recognize a Palestinian state with like-minded partners
when it’s most helpful for peace.

Mr. President, we also see Israel’s history reflected in our eyes: a
diaspora whose heart never left home, no matter how many generations
passed; a nation state that was reborn; and a language revived. 

I believe it’s possible to be for Israel and for Palestine, and I
believe you do too — (applause) — because the life of a Palestinian
child is equal to that of an Israeli one, and the aspiration of the
Palestinian people to have a homeland and a fully-fledged state in the
land of their forefathers is equal to that of Israel’s. 

And I also believe there are lessons that can be drawn from our own
peace process in Northern Ireland, particularly the concept of parity of
esteem and the totality of relationships — and also the crucial role of
America, which provided a chairman for our peace talks in Senator George
Mitchell.  There was a permanent secretariat, and America provided
confidence and oversight.  (Applause.)

Mr. President, as you know, today we’re joined here in the White House
by Michelle O’Neill as First Minister and Emma Little-Pengelly as Deputy
First Minister of Northern Ireland –(applause) — a joint office in which
they are co-equal — two courageous women, demonstrating every day what’s
possible by putting aside old animosities and working together. 

The Good Friday Agreement is working again.  And thank you all so much
for making that possible.  (Applause.)

I think they’ve got off to a great start.  And the Irish government is
working with them and the Executive in Belfast to build on the peace and
prosperity that has been achieved in the last 26 years and to make sure
it’s shared by all.

And thank you, Mr. President, for your ongoing interest in Ireland and
Northern Ireland and the Good Friday Agreement.

We’ve known each other for many years, met on many occasions, and the
only — your only ask has ever been: How can I help?

So, thank you, Mr. President, for the warm welcome you’ve extended to
me, the enormous amount of time you’ve given to me and my delegation on
this very special occasion. 

(Speaks Irish.)

(Applause.)

5:43 P.M.
