---
date: '2024-03-15'
published_time: 2024-03-15 11:48:19-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/03/15/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-and-taoiseach-leo-varadkar-of-ireland-during-a-st-patricks-day-celebration-breakfast/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris and Taoiseach Leo Varadkar of Ireland During\
  \ a St. Patrick\u2019s Day Celebration\_Breakfast"
---
 
*Vice President’s Residence  
United States Naval Observatory  
Washington, D.C.*

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Okay.  Good morning, everyone.  Good morning, and
Happy St. Patrick’s Day.  Happy St. Patrick’s Day.   
  
So, Doug and I are very honored to once again host the Taoiseach and Mr.
Barrett back at the Vice President’s Residence.  I — I don’t think that
we told you both, but Doug and I decided after our last visit here that
you would be our new “couples friend.”  (Laughter.)  
  
And as you know, Taoiseach, nearly 1 in 10 Americans proudly claim Irish
ancestry.  And St. Patrick’s Day, then, is a wonderful opportunity for
us to celebrate the culture and the connection between Ireland and the
United States.   
  
And I am proud, then, to continue this breakfast tradition here the Vice
President’s Residence and to host you again and your spouse to
celebrate.   
  
And this year, we celebrate 100 years — 100 years of diplomatic
relations between the United States and Ireland.  And as we know, the
Irish people have been a part of American history and the American story
since the very beginning, way beyond those 100 years.   
  
In 1776, three signatories to the Declaration of Independence were Irish
born.   
  
Then, in the 19th century, Frederick Douglass found refuge in Ireland
when he fled slavery.  And I recall having extensive conversations about
that.  The historians among us will know that Frederick Douglass, when
he went to Ireland, famously said it was the first time he fully felt
like a man, because of the kinship and the dignity then that he received
in Ireland.   
  
And America has, of course, served as a place of hope for millions of
Irish immigrants and their descendants, including those who have held
the highest offices in our land.  And currently, of course, that is our
President Joe Biden.  
  
Throughout the past century, our nations have stood together, united by
shared commitments to freedom and opportunity.   
  
And, Taoiseach, I want to thank you, in particular, for your leadership
and your partnership.  Early on in your career, you worked to strengthen
the ties between the Irish diaspora and the Emerald Isle.  And you have
been courageous in the fight for women’s reproductive freedom.   
  
You have also been a global leader.  And last month, you became the
first Taoiseach to attend the Munich Security Conference, joining me and
dozens of other global leaders.  And you have made clear that you intend
that Ireland will play a positive role on the world stage, given the
security challenges that we all face.   
  
We are proud to work with you to support the people of Ukraine in their
fight for democracy and independence.  Under your leadership, Ireland
has hosted one of the highest per capita populations of Ukrainian
refugees — a testament to the generosity and the compassion of the Irish
people.  And I commend you for leading by example when you hosted in
your own home a refugee from Kyiv, who left days after the invasion
began.   
  
Regarding the conflict in the Middle East — triggered, of course, by
Hamas’s brutal terrorist attack — Ireland has been a leader in providing
food, water, and medicine to the people of Gaza.   
  
And when it comes to human rights, Ireland made history in 2015 when it
became the first nation in the world to legalize same-sex marriage by
referendum.   
  
On a personal note, Taoiseach, you have been an extraordinary role model
for the people all around the world as one of the only openly LGBT
leaders in history.  And you so graciously talked last year here about
the work that you and I have done to support and fight for the rights of
the LGBT community.  And to see you and Mr. Barrett on the world stage
is important for so many reasons, as our long march for progress
continues on.   
  
So, as we look to the next century of partnership, I am confident that
the bonds between the people of our nations will only grow stronger. 
And I’m confident that our work together will continue to advance the
cause of freedom and opportunity.  
  
So, I offer a toast to the next 100 years, Taoiseach.  Cheers, cheers,
cheers.   
  
(Vice President Harris offers a toast.)  
  
And, Taoiseach, the floor is yours.  
  
We’re fitting a lot of folks in here.  (Laughter.)  
  
TAOISEACH VARADKAR:  Thank you.  Thank you so much, Vice President
Harris, Second Gentleman Emhoff, distinguished guests, friend.  (Speaks
Irish.)  (No translation provided.)   
  
Thank you so much, Madam Vice President, for once again inviting me and
Matt to your beautiful home.  This act of friendship and hospitality, I
believe, goes back to when President Biden was vice president and lived
here.  And it celebrates, I think, the wonderful relationship between
our two countries now and forever.   
  
Madam Vice President, to update the words of one of your distinguished
predecessors: The President of the United States has 332 million bosses;
the Vice President has 332 million plus one.  (Laughter.)  And I think,
in some ways, it’s the hardest job, but one that can have an
extraordinary impact.   
  
And I know a little bit what it’s like myself, as somebody who went from
Taoiseach, prime minister of the country, to Tánaiste, the deputy prime
minister, before returning to the top job at the end of the last year. 
And I’m not going to lie, I know which one I prefer.  (Laughter.)  And I
do even find it a little bit easier, even when it’s harder.   
  
But I know that the best vice presidents have been able to show enormous
leadership and vision in the role, trailblazers who’ve spoken from the
heart.   
  
President Biden, when he served as vice president, showed enormous
courage and leadership in 2012, when he spoke out in favor of marriage
equality, helping to encourage the administration and the country along
the road to greater equality.  I remember that interview really well. 
And it was a very significant intervention at the time.   
  
And I believe you, Madam Vice President, showed great courage and
leadership in recent weeks, when you spoke publicly in favor of a
ceasefire in Gaza.  I’m sure it can’t have been easy, but it was the
right thing to do, and your words echoed all over the world.   
  
Like you, we call for the unconditional and immediate release of all of
the hostages, a very significant increase in humanitarian aid — food,
medicine, sanitation, electricity — and an end to the fighting by both
sides, Israel and Hamas.  And we support the work of the United States
in trying to bring that about.   
  
There is a terrible humanitarian catastrophe unfolding in Gaza — a very
human tragedy, which I think will haunt us all for years to come.   
  
In Ireland, we know how quickly atrocities can lead to calls for
vengeance, creating new cycles of hatred and bitterness.  But we also
know that the cycle can be broken, and that new hope can replace old
hatreds.   
  
The United States helped us to find peace.  And now th- — let us work
together to build a just and lasting peace in the Middle East for
Israel, Palestine, and its Arab neighbors.   
  
We know from our own story that finding peace can be a long and painful
process, and it takes time to build trust and build relationships. 
American politicians on both sides of the aisle helped to encourage and
nurture these relationships in Northern Ireland over many decades.  And
we thank you all so much for that.   
  
Today, Northern Ireland looks very different.  We have a first minister
and deputy first minister from different traditions working together for
greater good.  And in recent months, members of the Northern Ireland
Assembly — the elected representatives of the people of Northern Ireland
— came together to elect a new speaker and a new executive.  Now,
politicians in Northern Ireland from across the community are making
decisions to improve the lives for all who live there.  So, it’s great
to see that the Good Friday Agreement is working again.   
  
Today, the U.S. is our partner in building a better future for all young
people, and we sincerely thank you for it.  
  
(Speaks Irish.)  (No translation provided.)  
  
Thank you again for the very warm welcome, for your very kind
hospitality here this morning, and a very happy St. Patrick’s Day to you
all.   
  
(Speaks Irish.)  (No translation provided.)  (Applause.)  
  
END
