---
date: '2024-03-06'
published_time: 2024-03-06 14:00:17-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/03/06/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-on-expanding-registered-apprenticeship-programs-creating-good-paying-union-jobs-and-advancing-economic-opportunity-madison-mi/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris on Expanding Registered Apprenticeship Programs,\
  \ Creating Good-Paying Union Jobs, and Advancing Economic Opportunity | Madison,\_\
  MI"
---
 
*Metro Transit Satellite Bus Facility  
Madison, Wisconsin*

12:03 P.M. CST  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.  Thank you.  And to our Labor Secretary,
thank you so very much for your work.  
  
So, it’s great to be back in Madison.   
  
Mayor, I want to thank you for your leadership.  And thanks for greeting
me on the tarmac and riding over with me.  
  
The work that is happening here really is a wonderful example of so many
of our administration’s priorities, including the important
collaboration between us at the federal level and leaders at the local
level, like the mayor of Madison, because this work that we see behind
us is a function of that partnership around how we can get federal
dollars out to local governments and local communities in a way that
they, then, invest in the talent of the community.  And so, it is an
example, then, of partnership.  
  
It is also an example of the fact that when we invest in the American
people, including the American worker, everyone benefits.   
  
So, the apprentices that we have been talking with today, they are
highly skilled.  They’re involved in — in very hardcore education that
is about understanding technology, understanding math, understanding
what we need to do to integrate technology with traditional work that is
about building infrastructure.  They are doing these programs around the
clock.  
  
Apprenticeship programs for labor and — and union apprenticeship
programs also pay their apprentices while they’re in the program, which
means that people don’t have to worry about whether they have to borrow
money in order to receive an education that is for the benefit of the
community and its productivity.  
  
These apprentices are — some of them — right out of high school.  One
young gentleman that I spoke with, he decided to join the apprentice
because he had a new baby — a son — and wanted to make sure that he was
on a path that was about not only a job but a career.  
  
So, I say all that to say that this is another example of also the
partnership between our administration and unions, around the
apprenticeship programs that they create for young people to enter a
profession, enter a career that means a very high quality of life for
themselves and their families.  
  
All of that to say, today, one of the announcements that we are making
and the President has made in Washington is that we have now issued —
and the President has issued — an executive order, an EO, that will
direct federal agencies to explore what federal jobs we have that can be
filled by the highly skilled folks who work — who have been trained in
apprenticeship programs and not just giving these jobs only to people
with a four-year college degree.  
  
This is very important because what we have demonstrated with so much of
the apprenticeship work that is happening as we invest in America and
rebuild America’s infrastructure — again, I will repeat — is that they
are learning skills that are about engineering and technology.  They are
learning skills that is about complex math and science.  
  
And these are the kinds of skills that we need in a variety of jobs that
are not only in — and are in addition to the work that we’re doing to
rebuild America’s infrastructure.  
  
So, I am very proud to be here with these leaders and with these
incredible, skilled — highly skilled people who are part of a profession
that is about building up our communities.  
  
And, Mayor, I’m going to let you talk a little bit more about what’s
happening at this facility.  But I want to applaud your work, because
she has made it as part of her agenda of leadership to invest in public
transit.   
  
And she — the work she is doing here in Madison is really an example of
what can happen in local communities around the country, which is to
invest in the infrastructure, do the public-private partnership, do the
partnership with the federal government, and expand public transit in a
way that will be to the benefit of all working people in her city but
everywhere in terms of the model that you are providing.  
  
So, with that, I would like to introduce the mayor of Madison.  
  
Thank you.  
  
END                 12:06 P.M. CST
