---
date: '2024-03-08'
modified_time: 2024-03-11 14:58:34-05:00
published_time: 2024-03-08 22:54:00-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/03/08/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-during-the-fight-for-reproductive-freedoms-tour-phoenix-az/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris During the \u201CFight for Reproductive Freedoms\u201D\
  \ Tour | Phoenix,\_AZ"
---
 
South Mountain Community Center  
Phoenix, Arizona

  
4:38 P.M. MST

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon, everyone.  (Applause.)

Good afternoon.  Good afternoon.  Oh, it’s good to be back in Arizona. 
Good af- —

AUDIENCE:  Four more years!  Four more years!  Four more years!  

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  We will get four more years, won’t we?  (Laughs.) 

I want to thank President Florez for her incredible work.  And, of
course, the words I — I just said to her — I thank her for stepping up
to serve at this moment in the history of our country, because these
truly are challenging times. 

And for all the leaders who are here, the courage that you show every
day to do this work is extraordinary.  And you do this work on behalf of
people we may never meet and people who may never know our names.  But
because of your advocacy and your fight, they will forever be
benefited. 

So, I thank everyone here for your leadership.  And all the
extraordinary leaders are here, including Secretary Becerra, who is
here.

Your mayor, Kate Gallego — (applause) — I have to tell you, she’s so
wonderful.  She met me on the tarmac as I landed on Air Force Two, and
she’s been talking with me about all the work — all the good work that
she is doing here.  I thank you, Mayor.

Congressman Greg Stanton is here — (applause) — a powerful voice for
this city and, in particular, on the issue of public transit and water
infrastructure.  And, by the way, today is his birthday.  (Applause.) 
Yes.  Okay.  So, we all wished him a happy birthday. 

And, of course, my dear friend Ruben Gallego wanted to be here today,
the congressman.  He — I saw him last night in Washington at the
President’s State of the Union.  I’ve known him for a while.  And I have
to say that the congressman, he is a tireless fighter for the people and
the families of Arizona. 

So, we are thinking of him.  And he has been a true leader — a national
leader to the President and me in terms of his advice and friendship. 

I also want to thank all the organizers in Arizona who are collecting
signatures — (applause) — to uphold one of our nation’s highest ideals. 
Thank you, all.  This makes a huge difference. 

And, of course, you are fighting for the ideal of freedom — freedom —
freedom.  It is fundamental to the promise of America: freedom of
speech, freedom of worship, freedom of assembly, and the freedom to
vote. 

And in America, freedom is not to be given.  It is not to be bestowed. 
It is ours by right. 

And that, of course, includes the freedom to make decisions about one’s
own body — not the government telling people what to do.  (Applause.) 

So, 51 years ago, in the case of Roe v. Wade, the United States Supreme
Court recognized the fundamental constitutional right to reproductive
freedom.  However, almost two years ago, the highest court in our land —
the court of Thurgood and RBG — took a constitutional right that had
been recognized from the people of America, from the women of America. 
And now we must speak of Roe in the past tense.

In states across our nation, extremists have proposed and passed laws
that criminalize doctors and punish women — laws that threaten doctors
and nurses with prison time, even for life, simply for providing
healthcare.  Laws like those in Arizona that make no exception even for
rape or incest. 

Now, as many of you know, I started my career as a prosecutor
specializing in crimes of violence against women and children.  What you
may not know is why. 

So, when I was in high school, my best friend, I learned, was being
molested by her stepfather.  And so, I said to her, “Look, you’ve got to
come stay with us.”  I called my mother, and my mother said,
“Absolutely.  She has come stay with us.”  And she did. 

So, the idea that someone who survives a crime of violence to their
body, a violation of their body, would then be told they don’t have the
authority to make a decision about what happens to their body next —
that is immoral.  That is immoral.  (Applause.)

And today, of course, in some states, extremists even attack the freedom
to use IVF treatment — women and couples denied the ability to fulfill
their dream of having a child. 

And please let us consider the irony.  On the one hand, these extremists
tell women they do not have the freedom to end an unwanted pregnancy. 
And on the other hand, these extremists tell women they don’t have the
freedom to start a family. 

Let us all agree: One does not have to abandon —

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  (Inaudible.)

AUDIENCE:  MVP!  MVP!  MVP! 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Let us all agree — let us all agree: One does not
have to abandon their faith or deeply held beliefs to agree the
government should not be telling her what to do with her body. 
(Applause.)

And this is, in fact, a healthcare crisis.  There is nothing
hypothetical about this moment.  Today in America, one in three women of
reproductive age live in a state with an abortion ban — one in three
women of reproductive age. 

And that number is even higher for Latinas.  Forty percent of Latinas
live in a state where abortion is banned, including right here in
Arizona, where extremist legislators passed an abortion ban with no
exception for rape or incest. 

And right now, other extremists, as you have heard and know, are in
court trying to bring back a law from 1864 that would completely ban
abortion in Arizona — 1864.  Understand: 1864, before women had the
right to vote, before women could own property, before Arizona was even
admitted as a state.

Look, these extremists, they’re trying to take women back to the 1800s. 
But we’re not going to let them.  (Applause.)  We’re not going to let
them.  We are not going to let them.

And let us understand the impact of laws like these, since Roe was
overturned, have created a horrific reality that women in our country
are facing every single day.  It is not without harm to real people that
this has happened. 

You know, I’ve met women who had miscarriages in toilets because they
were refused care.  I met a woman who went to the emergency room during
a miscarriage and was turned away repeatedly because the doctors there
were afraid they might be put in jail for giving her care.  And it was
only when she developed sepsis that they administered care. 

And consider that the majority of women in America are mothers — who
have abortions, the majority are mothers.  So, if she lives in a state
with an abortion ban and needs to travel to receive care, God help her
if she does not have paid leave or affordable childcare or the savings
necessary to buy a bus, train, or plane ticket to get where she can
receive support and help. 

And, by the way, these extremists say they’re motivated by the health
and well-being of women and children while they are silent on the issue
of maternal mortality — (applause) — that, in connection with
childbirth, women in America die at a higher rate than any women in a
wealthy nation around the world. 

The issue of maternal mortality — and they’ve been silent on that, and,
all of a sudden, they are the great defenders of women and children. 
Consider, on the issue of maternal mortality, that Black women are three
times as likely to die in connection with pregnancy, Native women twice
as likely, rural women one and a half times as likely. 

And the top 10 states with the highest rates of maternal mortality all
have abortion bans, including Arizona.  The hypocrisy abounds. 

And the reality, in real time, across our country is that for every
story we hear, there are so many that we do not.  Today, an untold
number of women are silently suffering.  Women who are being subjected
to profound judgment, women who are being made to feel as though they
did something wrong, as though they should be embarrassed, as though
they are alone. 

So, to these women, I say: We see you, and we are here with you, and we
are always going to stand by you.  You are not alone.  (Applause.) 

And in this healthcare crisis, then, please do understand who is to
blame.  The former President, Donald Trump, handpicked three members of
the United States Supreme Court because he intended for them to overturn
Roe.  He intended for them to take your freedoms, and he brags about
it. 

He said that for years, they were, quote, trying to get rid of Roe v.
Wade, trying to have it “terminated.”  And then he said, quote, “And I
did it, and I’m proud to have done it.”  He is proud. 

Proud that women across our nation are suffering?  Proud that doctors
and nurses could be thrown in prison for administering care?  Proud that
young women today have fewer rights than their mothers and
grandmothers?  How dare he?  (Applause.)  

So, let us understand: The former President is the architect of this
healthcare crisis.  And the extremists are not done.  In the United
States Congress, extremists tried to pass a national abortion ban to
outlaw abortion in every single state. 

But what they need to know is that if Congress passes a national
abortion ban, President Joe Biden will veto it.  (Applause.)

Because here’s the deal.  We trust women.  (Applause.)  We trust women
to know what is in their own best interest.  And women trust us to fight
to protect their most fundamental freedoms.  And it’s going to take all
of us.  It is going to take all of us. 

Joe Biden and I are fighting in court to protect women’s access to
medication and emergency care.  We have worked to make sure medical
records stay between a doctor and her — and his or her patient.  We have
protected the right of women to travel between states for abortion
care.  And we are fighting for access to free contraception. 

But here’s the bottom line.  As President Biden made clear last night in
the State of the Union, to truly protect reproductive freedoms, we must
restore the protections of Roe.  What the United States Supreme Court
took, Congress can put back in place. 

So, we must have a majority of members in Congress who simply agree —
regardless of their personal beliefs for themselves or their family, who
just simply agree that the government should not be making these
personal decisions for other people.  (Applause.)  That’s the bottom
line. 

And when Congress passes a law that restores reproductive freedoms and
the reproductive freedoms of Roe, Joe Biden will sign it into law. 
(Applause.)

So, in conclusion, I will repeat: It is going to take all of us.  It is
going to take all of us to get there.  And momentum is on our side. 
(Applause.)

Since Roe was overturned, every time repro- — reproductive freedom has
been on the ballot — every time — \`22, \`23 — every time reproductive
freedom has been on the ballot, the people of America have voted for
freedom.  (Applause.) 

From Kansas to California to Kentucky, in Michigan, Montana, Vermont,
and Ohio — (applause) — the people of America voted for freedom by
overwhelming margins. 

And, by the way, that also makes a different point, which is this is not
a partisan issue.  It is not a partisan issue.  In red states and blue,
tens of millions of Americans marched to the polls, and the voice, then,
of the people has been heard, and it will be heard. 

So, in conclusion, I ask today: Arizona, are you ready to make your
voices heard?  (Applause.) 

Do we trust women?  (Applause.) 

Do we believe in reproductive freedom?  (Applause.) 

Do we believe in the promise of America?  (Applause.) 

Are we ready to fight for it?  (Applause.) 

And when we fight, we win.  (Applause.) 

     God bless you.  God bless the United States of America.

     Thank you, all.  Thank you.  

                               END                 4:54 P.M. MST
