---
date: '2024-03-20'
modified_time: 2024-03-21 13:19:44-04:00
published_time: 2024-03-20 21:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/03/20/remarks-by-president-biden-at-a-campaign-reception-dallas-tx/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks By President\_Biden at a Campaign Reception | Dallas,\_TX"
---
 
Private Residence  
Dallas, Texas

7:24 P.M. CDT

THE PRESIDENT: Thank you. (Applause.) I don’t know where he’s been, but
I want to go there. (Laughter.)

Russell and Dori, thank you for your friendship. You know, you heas- —
you hosted me the first time for a fundraiser in 2019. And it’s fitting
that you’re hosting my first Texas fundraiser for 2024.

A special thanks to all of you: Jaime Harrison and — the chair of the —
of the — our — our party; Chris, our finance chair; and all the lawyers
here today who care deeply about the rule of law and the frontlines of
fairness and justice and — and deepening democracy and defending it,
because I think it’s at stake.

You know, folks, we’re seeing incredible enthusiasm all over the country
as we travel. Recently, I’ve traveled to Pennsylvania, Michigan,
Georgia, Wisconsin, New Hampshire, Nevada, Arizona. And Jill and Kamala
and Doug are traveling as well.

Our grassroots support, thank God, keeps getting stronger. So far, over
1.3 million people have contributed to our campaign this time around —
500,000 of them, brand new — and 97 percent of those contributions are
$200 or less — 97 percent of them.

And we’re ramping up our many campaign headquarters, off- — field
offices across the country. We’ve opened a hundred field offices so far
and staffing them all now — and before Trump has opened a — and his MAGA
Republican friends — have opened even one. (Laughter.)

And while you probably haven’t read about it, in the last few days,
there have been five national polls where we’re back to leading again in
the polls. (Applause.)

But the truth is I’m not sure any of them matter, because it’s so hard
to take polls these days. It really is. And not everyone is feeling the
enthusiasm. Not everyone.

Just the other day, a defeated-looking guy came up to me and said, “Mr.
President, I need your help. I’m being crushed with debt. I’m completely
wiped out.” I had to say, “Donald, I can’t help you.” (Laughter and
applause.) (Inaudible.)

Speaking of Donald Trump, just a few days ago, he asked a famous
question in one of his rallies: Are you better off today than you were
four years ago?

AUDIENCE: Yes!

THE PRESIDENT: Well, Donald, I’m glad you asked that question, man.
(Laughter.) I hope everyone in the country takes a moment to think back
what it was like in March of 2020.

COVID had come to America. Trump was president. Hospitals, emergency
rooms were overcrowded. First responders were risking their lives.
Nurses were wear- — were wear- — were wearing garbage bags because they
couldn’t have the protection in the hospitals they needed. There was a
ventilator shortage. Morgues were being set up all outside, not just in
the hospitals. And the loved ones were dying all alone. We couldn’t even
say goodbye to them.

And unemployment shot up to 14 percent. The stock market crashed.
Grocery store shelves were emply — and were empty. And we even —
remember the whole toilet paper conference? (Laughter.) No, I’m — think
about how tough things were.

You know, months ago Trump tried to downplay the virus. He told us,
“Don’t worry, it will go away. Just stay calm. And we’ll” — remember he
said, “We’ll be out of it by Easter”? Well, over a million people died.
And while — all while doing nothing.

Of course, we now know Bob Woodward’s book — that Trump was lying to the
American people all along. He knew how dangerous the virus was, and he
hid it from us. He just kept getting worse — worse and worse. He told
Americans — remember he was telling “inject bleach”? He told us to hit
the body with UV light. Well — (laughter).

But later, you know, he wanted to tear gas the photo op — for a photo
op, out — because they protested justice in front of the White House.

Then, after losing the 2020 election, Trump finished his presidency by
sending an interrecti- — an insurrection mob to the Capitol. And, folks,
look, there’s — these folks — so many of them have been convicted. And
he swears when he gets elected he’s going to pardon them all — pardon
them all — because they’re “heroes.”

But four years later, look at where we — how far we’ve come. Donald
Trump is not president — that’s the first thing — because of you.
(Applause.) And I mean it — because of many of you.

COVID no longer controls our lives. We’ve created 15 million new jobs —
more jobs in that timeframe than any president has in American history.
(Applause.) We have the lowest unemployment rate in over 50 years. We
had record economic growth, new small-business creation record, stock
market is highest it’s ever been.

Insulin now costs seniors 35 bucks instead of 400 bucks a month.
Out-of-pocket costs for prescription drugs for seniors are going to be
capped at $2,000 a year, no matter what the total cost is.

It doesn’t just save seniors money; it saves taxpayers significant
amounts of money.

By just passing that law and what we’ve done so far, we’ve saved — we’ve
reduced the deficit by $160 billion — $160 billion. If you’re not paying
$400 instead of $15, and so on. Go down the line. I won’t bore you with
detail.

We’re rebuilding the nation’s roads and bridges. We’re delivering clean
water and high-speed Internet to every American, whether you’re rural or
no matter where you live.

American manufacturing is booming — 800,000 manufacturing jobs and
counting. And be- — you all know this as well as I do: We’ve attracted
over $650 billion dollars in private-sector investment in clean energy,
advanced manufacturing, semiconductors — all across America. (Applause.)
We made the biggest investment in history to combat climate change. And
we can do a lot more, of course, and we have to.

Inflation peaked at 9 percent a little over a couple of years ago — a
year and a half ago. Now, it’s dropped to 3 percent — the lowest in the
world — and still dropping. We’re going to do more — more to be done.

So, let me ask you: Does anyone here want to go back to 2020? (Laughs.)

AUDIENCE: No!

THE PRESIDENT: Well, when fear ruled our lives, when Trump was president
— I don’t think so.

But, look, the problem isn’t just going back to Trump ha- — where Trump
had the country. The problem is he wants to take us — where he wants to
take us now. Look at what he’s saying, and I hope that we all begin to
take seriously. He means what he says. As crazy as it sounds, he means
what he says.

He wants to get rid of the Affordable Care Act. Over 30 million
Americans depend on the ACA. It would be a disaster for the — to be
taken away.

He wants to get rid of the savings I just got put into law for
prescription drugs at 35 bucks for — for insulin — for a whole range of
— and he just wants to wipe it all out.

You know, and what he wants to do is enact another $2 trillion tax cut.
Well, at the time, you know, he increased the deficit larger than any
man in American history in four years — the deficit.

House Republicans just proposed massive cuts in Social Security and
Medicare. Trump recently said, “Social security and Medicare — there’s a
lot you can do to cut more.”

Well, folks, the climate — he’s a climate denier. And he’s going to do
away with the historic action that we’ve taken. There’s a lot more to
do. I’m not suggesting we’ve finished.

But another school shooting recently, and what did he say? He said —
when asked about it, he said, “Just get over it.” “Just get over it.”

No — no, I want to stop it, not get over it. The idea our children are
having to duck and cover in school. Did you ever think we’d be in that
position? Ever think we’d be teaching kids that?

Look — look at the judges he put on the bench. Imagine who else he’ll
put on the bench.

Our reputation internationally has been crushed when he was president.
Imagine what will happen if he’s reelected. He wants to do away with
NATO, and he wants to tell Putin to do whatever you want — do whatever
you want.

Trump boasts he — what I found so stunning: He recently hosted Viktor
Orbán, the Prime Minister of Hungary, at Mar-a-Lago. And Orbán says he
doesn’t think democracy works — it doesn’t work. And that’s who he
admires most.

He brags about how he ha- — he’s the reason Roe v. Wade is overturned
and the freedom to choose is taken away. Look, and American needs to
know: Donald Trump and his MAGA extremists are now calling for a
national ban — a national ban on abortion in every state in the Union.

Folks, one more thing. Trump didn’t just bring chaos to the lives of
women. He is also bringing chaos to the American border.

With a group of bipartisan senators we put together over a five-month
period, the very conservative — a very conservative senator from
Oklahoma heading the group — of a meeting for five — five solid weeks
toward the end, we agreed on the strongest border security law in
American history: 1,500 more Border Security agents and officers; 100
more immigration judges to tackle the backlog of 2 million cases; 4,300
asylum officers and new policy so they can resolve six — issues in six
months instead of, now, six years; 100 more high-tech drug detection
machines to significantly decrease the ability to — to smuggle in
fentanyl and all its precursors.

But Trump — the problem is — I’ve been around a while. I don’t ever
remember the leader of another party saying the reason they want to —
their party to vote against something — not because it wasn’t good but
because he worried I would get too much credit for it — the other team
would get credit for it.

Folks, it wasn’t about whether it’s good for me or Trump; it’s about
what’s good for America.

But here’s what I — here’s what I will not do. Unlike Trump, I’m not
going to demonize immigrants. I will not say immigrants are “poisoning
the blood” of this nation. I will not call immigrants “rapists” and
“murderers.” I will not separate families, put kids in cages. I’ll not
end the birthright citizenship.

Now, this guy actually wants to end — and he’s — now he’s bragging about
it. He wants to end the right for birthright citizenship, which we
established way back, a couple hundred years ago. If you’re born in
America, you’re an American citizen. He wants to end that.

I’m not going to ban people because of religion. That’s not who we are
as Americans.

Folks, but after all the threats Trump poses, to our economy, our
standing in the world, is — the greatest threat he poses is to our
democracy. Violence on January 6th — Trump embraced and he’s running on
it. He’s running on it. He calls insurrectionists who are in prison — in
prison — found guilty and in prison — he calls them “patriots.” He
suggests that they are, in fact, the ones who should be — and he swears
if he gets elected, he’s going to pardon them — pardon them all.

Trump now says if he loses again in November, there will be a
“bloodbath” in the streets.

You know, we didn’t — when I got elected, and you helped me get elected
in 2020, I — I made a speech on democracy at Independence Hall. I said
we’re in danger of losing the democracy if we don’t win this thing.
Well, folks, we can’t stand for this stuff. We have to say in one voice
as Americans — as Democrats, independents, and Republicans — there’s no
place for violence in America ever, ever, ever. Period. (Applause.)

And I’ll probably get her in trouble, but I just read what Liz Cheney
recently said. She said, “You can’t possibly vote for him, because
democracy is at stake.” And when asked, she said she’d vote for Biden.
The idea that a woman who is — has very different id- — ideas on policy
than I do is so concerned that this guy gets reelected — what will
happen.

Look, let me close with this, because you’re standing. You know, I
couldn’t be — the stakes couldn’t be higher across the board. And with
your help, we’re going to win up and down the ticket. That includes here
in Texas, because I want to see — you got to elect Colin your next
senator. (Applause.) You got to so Ted Cruz joins another loser, Donald
Trump. (Laughter.)

Looks, there’s a lot of focus these days on how old Trump is and how old
I am. I’m two — two times 40. But I — you know, what the hell?
(Laughter.)

The real question is — all kidding aside — is how old are ideas? How old
are our ideas?

Donald Trump’s vision of America is one of anger, hate revenge,
retribution — some of the oldest known ideas to man.

I have a very different vision for America, one that focuses on the
future and answers questions — important questions: Are you better off
now, and will you be better off four years from now?

Here’s the future I see, and I’ll be brief. I see a future where we
defend democracy and we don’t diminish it.

I see a future where we restore the right to choose and protect the
freedoms, not take them away.

I see a future — (applause) — I see a future where the middle class
finally has a fair shot and the wealthy, the su- — you know, we have a
thousand billionaires. I — I respect anybody who can make as much money
as they can legally. But you know what their average tax — you know what
the tax is of a — for those thousand billionaires in America? 8.2
percent. Anybody want to trade that rate? (Laughter.)

No — no, but I’m serious. This — this is — you know, if – if they just
got paid — if they just paid the 25 percent, do you know how much money
that would raise? Four hundred billion dollars over 10 years.

Imagine what we could do — from everything from the deficit to taking
care of kids, education, so many —

I see a future where we save the planet from the climate crisis and our
country from gun violence.

Look, I own weapons. I own guns. But this — from the very beginning, the
Second Amendment didn’t say you can own any weapon. You couldn’t own a
cannon. You couldn’t own a — I’m serious.

And so, above all, I really do — I give you my word — I see a future for
all Americans where we don’t demonize one another and we give hate no
safe harbor and we leave nobody behind. That’s a future we can build
together. That’s the reason I’ve never been more optimistic about our
future.

My dad used to have an expression, God love him. My dad was a high
school-educated guy who was well-read. He got into Johns Hopkins. But
during the war, he never made it to Hopkins.

My dad used to say, “Joey, a job is about a lot more than a paycheck.
It’s about your dignity. It’s about respect. It’s about having a chance.
It’s about being able to look your kid in the eye and say, ‘Honey, it’s
going to be okay,’ and mean it.” Well, that’s what this is about: giving
everybody a shot.

We are the most incredible nation in the world. I know that sounds like
I’m bragging about our country, but I am. I think it’s real. We’re the
only nation in the world, as I said before, that have come — come out of
every crisis we faced stronger than we went in — stronger than when we
went in.

We have to remember who in the hell we are. We are the United States of
America. And I believe with all my — every fiber of my being there’s not
a single thing beyond our capacity to get done when we act together. I
mean that from the bottom of my heart.

So, God bless you all. Thanks for giving me a shot to do it again. And
may God protect our troops. (Applause.) Thank you.

Every time I’d walk out of my Grandfathers Finnegan’s house in Scranton
he’d yell, “Joey, keep the faith.” And my grandmother would yell, “No,
Joey. Spread it.” Let’s go spread it.

Thank you. (Applause.)

7:39 P.M. CDT
