---
date: '2024-03-01'
published_time: 2024-03-01 10:59:39-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/03/01/remarks-by-president-biden-after-operation-briefing-brownsville-tx/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden After Operation Briefing | Brownsville,\_TX"
---
 
3:41 P.M. CST  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Again, thank you.  And as my mother would say, please
excuse my back.  I apologize.  (Laughter.)  
  
Hello, folks.  Good afternoon.  Before we start, I’d like to say a few
words about the devastating wildfires that are scorching the Texas
Panhandle and northwest Oklahoma.  
  
You know, yesterday, one of the biggest fire events in Texas history,
with more than 1 million — more than 1 million acres of Texas land
burned.  
  
From the start, I directed my team to do everything possible to help
protect the people and the communities threatened by these fires.  
  
In response to specific requests from the — made from the state, we
already have more than 500 federal personnel here working on fire su- —
suppression.  That includes the deployment of 100 federal firefighters —
and more are on the way — as well as dozens of dir- — of additional fire
engines, air tankers, small planes, helicopters to help fight the
flames.  
  
And FEMA has already guaranteed that Texas and Oklahoma will be
reimbursed for the costs of keeping folks safe.  
  
And we’re grateful for the brave first responders risking their lives to
save others.   
  
And we urge — we urge folks to listen to the warnings from the local
officials.  Listen to them.  
  
I’ve flown over a lot of these wildfires since I’ve been President.  As
a matter of fact, I’ve — in a helicopter in the West to the Southwest,
in the Northwest — flown over more landed burned to the ground — all the
vegetation gone — than the entire state of Maryland in square
footage.   
  
The idea there’s no such thing as climate change — I love that, man.  I
love some of my neanderthal friends who still think there’s no climate
change.  
  
Well, my administration is going to keep building on the progress we’ve
made fighting climate crisis.  And we’re going to keep — help folks
rebuild themselves in the wake of these disasters.   
  
And we rebuild to the standards that are up — the up-to-date standards
and building codes and the rest.  Because a lot of — if you fly over
these areas that are burned to the ground, you’ll see, in the midst of
20 homes that are just totally destroyed, one home sitting there because
it had the right roof on it.  
  
And, anyway, since I took office, FEMA has provided Texas alone over $13
billion — $13 billion in three years in disaster relief after fires and
winter storms across the state.   
  
And when disasters strike, there’s no red state or blue state where I
come from.  There are just communities and families looking for help.  
  
So, we’re standing with everyone — everyone affected by these
wildfires.  And we’re going to continue to help you respond and
recover.  
  
Now, turning to the purpose of my visit.  
  
I want to thank Congressman Gonzalez.  Where — there you are, pal.  I
thanked him — (applause) — I thanked him for the passport into his
district, but he’s been a great partner.  
  
Also want to thank Mayor C- — Mayor — Mayor Cowen for his partnership.  
  
And I want to thank County Judge Trevino — I — for over 30 — and over
the 30 local officials who have joined us here today.  No one — no one
works harder for a safe, secure border than all of you.  
  
And Secretary Mayorkas has joined us today.  And he is joined by seven
mayors in cities and towns across South Texas.  Four county judges here
from across the state.  I told the county judge that I used to be a
county official.  It’s the hardest job in American politics.  You know
why?  They think you can do everything, and you don’t have the budget. 
So, any rate.  (Laughter.)  
  
But — and the two leaders from the Texas legislature — State House
Leader Trey is here — Trey Martinez Fischer — and the State Senate
Leader Carol <s>Alvadaro</s> \[Alvarado\].  
  
And — hey, look, and all the other local officials that are here today,
I want to say thanks.   
  
Folks, it’s real simple.  It’s time to act.  It’s long past time to
act.   
  
I just received a briefing from the Border Patrol at the border as well
as immigration and enforcement and asylum officers.  And they’re all
doing incredible work under really tough conditions — really tough
conditions.  They each told me what they re- — what — what you already
know and we already know: They desperately need more resources.  I’ll
say it again: They desperately need more resources.  They need more
agents, more officers, more judges, more equipment in order to secure
our border.  
  
Folks, it’s time for us to move on this.  We can’t wait any longer.   
  
Folks, on my first day as President, I introduced a bill I sent to
Congress: a comprehensive plan to fix the broken immigration system and
to secure the border.  But no action was taken.  
  
Then months ago, my team began a serious negotiation on a bipartisan
group of senators — Democrat — leading conservative Republicans and Dem-
— progressive Democrats — and it resulted in a compromise bill.  It’s
the toughest set of border security reforms we’ve ever seen in this
country.  
  
It’s pretty basic.  With this deal, we could hire 1,500 additional
border security agents — 1,500 additional off- — and officers and
between ports of entry.   
  
For the past four years, staffing has been roughly that — flat — just
flat.  Agents working overtime, spending long hours patrolling the
border, making major sacrifices.  And I know it takes a big toll on them
and their families.  
  
That’s why, in December, I signed a bill finally getting Border Patrol
agents — what I’ve been pushed by and reminded by the congressman —
overtime pay they deserve.  They’re finally getting overtime pay.  I — I
mean, it’s ridiculous it took this long.  It was long past time, and I
was proud to do it.  But we need to do more.  
  
It’s time to step up.  It’s time to step up and provide them with
significantly more personnel and capability.     
  
We also need more immigration judges to help handle the backlog.  There
are 2 million cases — a backlog of 2 million cases.  This bipartisan
deal would provide funding for a hundred more immigration judges
immediately.  
  
It would also establish new, efficient, and fair process for the
government to consider asylum claims for those arriving at our border.  
  
Today, the process to get a decision on an asylum claim takes five to
seven years.  Now, you all know it down here, but the people around the
country don’t understand it.  That’s far too long.  They come in.  You
say — you say, “I have a credible fear,” and — and we’ve changed that
standard to make it hard- — we want to change to make it harder.  And
what happens?  You say, “Well, okay.  You can come in the country, but
come back in five to seven years, maybe as many as eight years, and you
could get a hearing from — before a judge to determine whether you can
stay.”  
  
This will encourage more people — this encourages more people to come to
the country.  If they get by the first, they got another five, seven,
eight years before they have to do anything because they know they
cannot handle the caseloads quickly and they’ll be able to stay in this
country in the meantime.   
  
With new policies in this bill and the addition of 4,300 additional
asylum officers, we’ll be able to reduce that process to less than six
months.  That would have a serious deterrent effect on those coming
north.  
  
When — when the criminal gangs say, “We’ll get you north, but it’s 8,000
bucks,” you say, “Now, wait, let me get this straight: I’m going to go
north.  It’s going to cost me six, eight” — probably closer to eight, I
guess — “thousand dollars, equivalent, and I’m going to get there, and
in six months, they may be able to get rid of me.”  And I don’t know,
man.  Six months, seven years — two different things.  
  
A person who’s thinking about entering the United States understands the
case is to be decided in a few weeks or months instead of five to seven
years, they’re less likely to come in the first place.  They’re not
going to pay the cartels thousands of dollars to make that journey
knowing that it’ll be turned around quickly.  
  
Look, and we also need more cutting-edge inspection machines to detect
and stop fentanyl from entering the United States of America.  
  
A year ago, I stood at a border in El Paso and I watched these machines
at work.  They were able to detect everything from fentanyl to weapons
to people being smuggled in cargo containers.  This — this compromise
bill would provide an additional $4- — $3- — $424 million for 100 more
of these machines and could save lives in the process.  
  
This compromise legislation would also give me as president or any — the
next president emergency authority to temporarily shut down the border
between ports of entry when the numbers of immigrants and migrants —
excuse me — overwhelm the border, starting — straining the Border
Patrol’s ability to process them.  
  
At the same time, at our legal ports of entry, like here in Brownsville,
we’re making investments in infrastructure.  My Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law is going to provide nearly 4 billion new dollars to
boost security, to ease waiting times at land ports of entry like
Brownsville.  
  
And I want to thank you again, Congressman Gonzalez, for helping me get
that through and get that passed and — as the law.  That you get the
money for the — for example, that’s how you got the money for the
Gateway Bridge from that fund.  
  
Folks, the bipartisan border security deal is a win for the American
people, and it’s a win for the people of Texas.  And it’s fair for those
who legitimately have a right to come here to begin with.  It’s a win
for the people of Brownsville.  
  
And I believe that’s why the Border Patrol union endorsed it.  I believe
that’s why the national Chamber of Commerce — the national Chamber of
Commerce endorsed it — not known as a Democratic organization, with a
capital “D.”   
  
Look, and that’s why the Wall Street Journal endorsed it as well.  This
is a truly bipartisan initiative.  That’s why the bipartisan South Texas
Alliance of Cities endorsed it.  
  
Folks, I didn’t get — I didn’t get everything I wanted in that
compromise bipartisan bill, but neither did anybody else.  Compromise is
part of the process.  That’s how democracy works.  That’s how it’s
supposed to work.  Compromise is a very positive step on a critical
issue for the country — all those issues for the country.  
  
And folks here in Brownsville and all along the border know that.  We
need to have their backs — your backs.  
  
I want the people to understand clearly what happened here.  This bill
was in the United States Senate.  It was on its way to being passed. 
Then, it was derailed by rank-and-file polit- — rank partisan
politics.  
  
The U.S. Senate needs to reconsider this bill.  And those senators who
opposed it need to set politics aside and pass it on the merits, not on
whether it’s going to benefit one party or benefit the other party. 
It’s about whether it benefits the American people.  That’s what the
American people deserve.  
  
And the Speaker of the House needs to put this bill on the floor,
because if he put it on the floor unrestricted, it would pass.  The
majority of Democrats and Republicans in both houses support this
legislation — until someone came along and said, “Don’t do that; it’ll
benefit the incumbent.”  That’s a hell of a way to do business in
America for such a serious problem.  
  
We need to act.  It’s time for the Speaker and some of my Republican
friends in Congress who are blocking this bill to show a little spine. 
Pass the Bipartisan Bor- — Bipartisan — remember, Bipart- — conservative
leaders supported this — Border Security bill.  
  
Let’s remember who we work for, for God’s sake.  We work for the
American people.  
  
Let me end with this.  I understand my predecessor is in Eagle Pass
today.  So, here’s what I would say to Mr. Trump: Instead of playing
politics with the issue, instead of telling members of Congress to block
this legislation, join me — or I’ll join you — in telling the Congress
to pass this Bipartisan Border Security bill.  We can do it together.  
  
You know and I know it’s the toughest, most efficient, most effective
border security bill this country has ever seen.  So, instead of playing
politics with the issue, why don’t we just get together and get it
done?   
  
And let’s remember who the heck we work for.  We work for the American
people, not the Democratic Party or the Republican Party.  We work for
the American people.   
  
And let’s remember who we are.  We’re the United States of America.  No,
I mean this.  Think about this.  There’s nothing — nothing beyond our
capacity — nothing — when we work together.  And of all things we should
be working together on, it’s this.  And we have the formula to get it
done.  
  
God bless you all.  And may God protect our Border Patrol.  And God
protect our troops.  
  
Now I’d like to turn this over to Secretary Mayorkas.  Thank you. 
(Applause.)  
  
3:53 P.M. CST
