---
date: '2024-03-26'
modified_time: 2024-03-26 18:11:39-04:00
published_time: 2024-03-26 18:11:38-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/03/26/remarks-by-president-biden-and-vice-president-harris-on-lowering-healthcare-costs-raleigh-nc/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden and Vice President Harris on Lowering Healthcare\
  \ Costs | Raleigh,\_NC"
---
 
3:31 P.M. EDT

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Hello.  Hello, North Carolina.  (Applause.) 
(Laughs.)  Oh, it’s good to be back.  It’s good to be back.  Please have
a seat, everyone.  Please have a seat.

So, before I begin, I will say a few words on the terrible accident in
Baltimore this morning.  I know we are all praying for the families of
those who are missing and all those who have been touched by this
tragedy.

I spoke with the governor of Maryland this morning, and we have directed
the federal government to use all the resources that are available to
assist with the search and rescue, to reopen the port, and to rebuild
the bridge as quickly as possible.  And, of course, I know we all will
stand and continue to stand with the people of Maryland.

And now, I will discuss the reason why we are here today. 

So, again, it is good to be back in this beautiful state.  It is good to
be here with my dear friend, Governor Roy Cooper.  (Applause.)

Governor Cooper and I served together as Attorneys General.  And so, I
have known his work for many years.  And I will tell you, no one fights
harder for the people of this state than Roy Cooper.  (Applause.)  Yes.

I also see your extraordinary Attorney General, Josh Stein — (applause)
— who is a powerful, powerful defender of our most fundamental rights
and freedoms.  And thank you, Josh, for all your work.  
  
And to all the leaders here today, thank you.  
  
So, we here agree that access to healthcare should be a right and not
just a privilege of those who can afford it.  A- — (applause) — yes.

And guided, then, by that fundamental belief, over the past three years,
President Biden and I have made healthcare more accessible and more
affordable for millions of Americans.   
  
We cut the cost of prescription drugs for millions of seniors.  We
expanded access to Medicare and Medicaid.  We made the largest
investment in youth mental health in history — (applause) — with 14,000
new mental health counselors in schools across our nation, including
hundreds right here in North Carolina.  And we strengthened the
Affordable Care Act so that, today, more Americans have healthcare
coverage than ever before in the history of our country.  (Applause.)

As you have heard and know, 14 years ago, when he was vice president,
Joe Biden helped pass the Affordable Care Act.  And he is without doubt
one of our nation’s greatest champions for affordable healthcare.

Eleven years ago, when I was Attorney General of California, I led 10
other state Attorneys General to defend the ACA in the United States
Supreme Court.   
  
And together, we have since signed up millions of Americans for
affordable care.

We have also taken on the crisis — the healthcare crisis of maternal
mortality.  (Applause.)  Because in the 21st century, in the United
States of America, it should not be the case that women here die in
connection with childbirth at a higher rate than women in any other
wealthy nation in the world — (applause) — that Black women — that Black
women are three times as likely to die in connection with pregnancy;
Native women, twice as likely to die in connection with pregnancy; rural
women, one and a half more times as likely to die. 

It is also the case that one of the most significant factors that
contributes to this crisis of maternal mortality is that millions of
women in America do not have access to adequate postpartum care.  
  
In fact, when we took office, in most states, women on Medicaid were
only entitled to two months of coverage for postpartum care — two
months.  And only three states — when we took office, only three states
in our nation offered 12 months of postpartum care.  

So, many of you know how I am.  We came in and I said, “Okay, let’s
issue a challenge,” which I did, “to every state in our nation: Extend
postpartum Medicaid coverage from a measly 2 months to 12 months.” 

And I am proud, North Carolina, to report: So far, a total of 45 states
have now completed that challenge — (applause) — including North
Carolina.  And, Governor Cooper, thank you for answering the call. 
(Applause.)

But while President Biden and I are fighting to expand access to
affordable healthcare, there are extremists in our country trying to
take away healthcare coverage or make it more expensive — extremists who
want to take away coverage from our seniors by trying to cut Social
Security and Medicare.  They want to take away coverage from working
families by trying to gut Medicaid.  And they want to take away coverage
from people with preexisting conditions by continuously trying to repeal
the Affordable Care Act.

And across our nation, extremists attack a woman’s access to healthcare
and reproductive healthcare.  They have proposed and passed laws that
criminalize doctors and punish women.  Laws that threaten doctors and
nurses with prison time, even for life, simply for providing
reproductive care.  Laws that even make no exception for rape or incest.
 The result is a healthcare crisis with real harm.

Consider: Since Roe was overturned, I have met women who were refused
care during a miscarriage.  I met a woman who went to the emergency room
and was turned away repeatedly because the doctors there were afraid
they may be thrown in jail for helping her.  And it was only when she
developed sepsis that she received care.

Earlier this month, I visited a clinic in Minnesota, where I met with
medical professionals — courageous and dedicated women who provide
critical healthcare — (applause) — who also see, around our country,
that clinics just like theirs are forced — being forced to close around
our nation.

And understand: The clinics that extremists are forcing to close, they
provide so much more than abortion care.  They provide breast cancer
screenings, contraceptive care, paps — essential, lifesaving care being
denied to millions of women across our country.

So, I’ll end where I began: Access to healthcare should be a right and
not just a privilege no matter who you are, where you live, or how much
you earn.  (Applause.)  And President Biden, with your support, will
continue to make sure that everyone in our country has the healthcare
they need.

And now, to say a few words about the profound impact that access to
affordable healthcare has on a family, please join me in welcoming Lori
Kelley.

Lori.  (Applause.)

MS. KELLEY:  Good afternoon, everyone.

AUDIENCE:  Good afternoon.

MS. KELLEY:  My name is Lori Kelley, and I am from Harrisburg, North
Carolina.

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Wooo!  (Laughter.)

MS. KELLEY:  I’m a — I’m a mother of three and a grandmother of six. 

After spending 16 years being locked out of affordable healthcare, today
I stand in front of you having coverage now, thanks to Medicaid
expansion in North Carolina.  (Applause.)

In 2008, I was diagnosed with a progressive eye disease.  It affects
everything in my daily life, from driving to reading to working.  And it
— no health insurance meant no regular checkups for my eyes and no
access to care if I got sick and nothing to be done if I had an
accident. 

And, indeed, an accident happened to me in December.  I hurt my finger,
and I got a terrible infection.  I was really scared because emergency
care and surgery that was necessary for me was not in the budget.  And
it was right then that I found out that I qualified for Medicaid. 
(Applause.)

Right in the nick of time, I — I found out through an email, and I
thought it was a hoax.  But it was true. 

And it was because of the Affordable Care Act and the closing of the
gap, which President Biden, \[Vice\] President Harris, Governor Cooper,
and many others worked to make a reality.  And today, here we are with
something to celebrate.  (Applause.)

Because of Medicaid expansion, and the tireless advocates who worked to
close the gap, now I don’t have to worry about how I’m going to have to
pay for surgery or the routine care that I need.  I have peace of mind
now.

I often say that I feel like I got the keys to the kingdom.  And I know
that there are millions more like me with similar stories.  I am truly
grateful for the blessing that this is and continues to be for myself
and for so many others, which is why I am honored to introduce to you
someone who has been fighting for people just like me.

Ladies and gentlemen, the President of the United States, Joe Biden. 
(Applause.)

THE PRESIDENT:  Hello, hello, hello, Raleigh!  (Applause.)

Please, all, have a seat.  (Applause.)  Thank you.

Thank you, thank you, thank you.  Please.  Thank you.

Lori, thank you for that introduction and for sharing your story with
us.  As a daughter, a mom, a granddaughter — grandmother, I should say —
you’re doing everything you can to care for the family and for yourself
while still taking care of others in need.  You’re incredible — pretty
incredible.

And so is Kamala.  She is really incredible.  (Applause.)

As Vice President of the United States, as Attorney General of
California, Kamala always fought for people like Lori who stood for the
basic truth that healthcare is a right — should be a right not just a
privilege in America. 

And I want to especially thank your incredible governor, Roy Cooper —
(applause) — and by the way, he is an incredible governor — and First
Lady Kristin Cooper for welcoming us today and for their friendship. 

You know, when I think of the Coopers, I think of one word, and I mean
this sincerely — highest compliment I can give anybody who has ever been
elected to office.  They have enormous integrity.  They have enormous
integrity.  (Applause.) 

And because Roy Cooper ne- — never gave up, North Carolina finally
extended — expanded Medicaid coverage, which already is helping 400,000
North Carolinians so far — 400,000.  (Applause.)  That all by itself is
a heck of a legacy. 

I also want to thank your Attorney General, Josh Stein, who defended ACA
— (applause) — and fought to expand Medicaid as well.  He’s an
outstanding leader. 

And, folks, look, speaking of great leaders and legacies, 14 years ago
this week, I stood by O- — President Obama when he signed the Affordable
Care Act into law — Obamacare.  And as many of you know, I thought it
was a big deal.  (The President makes the sign of the cross.) 
(Laughter.)  Thank God my mom wasn’t around.  (Laughter.)

Well, look, even as — it’s even a bigger deal today.  The Affordable
Care Act is the most consequential healthcare since Medicare and
Medicaid, and that’s a fact.  

It was always about millions of Americans lying in bed staring at the
ceiling at night wondering, “What will happen if I lose my insurance?” 

I’ll never forget, my dad came home one day.  We lived in a
three-bedroom house with four kids and a grandpop living with us.  And
my bedroom wall backed up to where they were.  And I could hear my dad
was restless as hell.  I couldn’t understand why. 

And the next morning — I was 14 years old — I asked my mom, “What’s the
matter?”  She said, “Well, they just — he just lost his health
insurance.  The company he worked for no longer is paying for health
insurance.”

You know, there’s a lot of people lying in bed at night, staring at the
ceiling, literally wondering, “What will happen if my spouse gets cancer
or my child gets seriously ill?  Will I have enough insurance?  Can we
afford the medical bills?  Will we have to sell the house?  What are we
going to have to do?” 

Because of all of you in this room and across the country, we changed
that and made the Affordable Care Act the law of the land.  (Applause.)

But Donald Trump and his MAGA friends are, if nothing than — but
persistent.  They’ve tried to repeal it 50 times.  Not a joke.  Fifty
times they’ve tried to repeal it, but we stopped them every time. 

And now — (applause) — and now they just released a budget again.  A
hundred and twenty or a hundred and sixty — I’m not sure how many — of
the House members put out their budget for next year.  They want to get
rid of the Affordable Healthcare Act again. 

But I got news for them.  (Laughter.)  We’re going to stop them again. 
(Applause.)

Look, Kamala and I have come back to North Carolina to celebrate the ACA
and to remind all of us we can’t take anything for granted. 

Just think back before the ACA.  A patient with a heart disease,
diabetes, or a child with asthma couldn’t get coverage.  Why?  Because
the insurance company considered those a preexisting condition that
allowed them to deny you coverage —

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  What about healthcare in Gaza?

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  What about the healthcare in Gaza? 

THE PRESIDENT:  Everybody deserves healthcare.

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Hospitals in Gaza are being bombed!  (Inaudible.)

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Women are being raped!  (Inaudible.)

THE PRESIDENT:  Be patient with them.

They have a point.  We need to get a lot more care into Gaza. 
(Applause.)

But, folks — (applause) — back to the subject at hand. 

Even pregnancy was considered a preexisting condition.  Did you all know
that?

Well — (laughs) — for all — for all the young people out there, before
ACA, you could get kicked off your parents’ healthcare plans before you
turned 26, just as you’re heading out on your own.  A lot has changed. 

For so many other people, they couldn’t leave a dead-end job or start
their own business because they couldn’t risk losing the healthcare they
had where they were.  

And imagine this: Prior to the ACA, many insurance companies imposed
lifetime caps on how much coverage your insurance policy would give you
— lifetime caps.  That meant a cancer patient could be halfway through
chemo when they reached the cap and their insurance cut out. 

No, I’m serious.  I know it sounds hard to believe.  Many of you pray to
God you haven’t had to go through that.  But companies would stop
covering, and — and that life was put in danger.  They just cut off the
insurance. 

Think about that.  At the most vulnerable point in their life, so many
Americans heard these words: “Sorry, you’re on your own.”

Look, for God’s sake, this is the United States of America.  We’re so
much better than that.  And that’s why the Affordable Care Act is so
important and why Kamala and I are making it stronger than ever before. 
(Applause.)  

Folks, through laws I wrote and signed — the American Rescue Plan, the
Inflation Reduction Act — both of which not a single, solitary
Republican in the Congress voted for — I enacted tax credits that save
an average of $800 per person per year, reducing healthcare premiums for
millions of working families under the Affordable Care Act. 

Those tax credits expire next year.  I’m calling on Congress to make
that $800 expanded affordable healthcare tax credit permanent. 
(Applause.)  Otherwise, millions of Americans with that coverage could
lose their coverage. 

Folks, it’s because we’re making the ACA stronger and more affordable
AC- — ACA enrollment is breaking records.  Today, everyone can get
affordable coverage through the ACA.  And 80 percent — 80 percent of the
folks on the ACA plan can get a plan for $10 a month — $10 a month. 

Twenty-one million people covered under ACA, a 75 percent increase just
since Kamala and I came to office.  And that includes over 1 million
folks right here in North Carolina.  (Applause.)

And on top of that, more Americans have healthcare today than any other
pre- — than under any other president, and it’s saving the American
taxpayers money.  It saves money.  They talk about we’re spending — it
saves the taxpayers money.  It’s cheaper to pay for a preventive
mammogram than it is to treat a cancer.  (Applause.)  

And today, 100 million Americans can no longer be denied health
insurance because of preexisting conditions, whether you get your
insurance through ACA or not.  Nearly 25 million low-income adults have
gained Medicaid coverage because of ACA, including, as I said, 400,000
right here in North Carolina because of Roy Cooper.  (Applause.)

And Kamala and I are making — making healthcare more affordable and
accessible in other ways as well.  Americans pay more for prescription
drugs than anywhere else in the world. 

I could get you on Air Force One, and you tell me if you have a
prescription to fill out here in North Carolina.  I c- — say — take — I
could fly you to Toronto, to Berlin, to London, to Rome, and I can get
you that same prescription from that same company somewhere between 40
and 60 percent less than you pay for it here.

But through the Inflation Reduction Act — again, not a single Republican
voted for it — we finally beat Big Pharma.  (Applause.)  Finally.

For example, instead of seniors with diabetes paying as much as $400 a
month for their insulin they so badly need, they now only have to pay
$35 a month, period.  (Applause.)  And, by the way, you know how much it
costs to make that insulin?  Ten — T-E-N — dollars.  Package it,
everything: $12.50.

Folks, I want to extend those savings to everyone who needs lifesaving
insulin, whether you’re a senior or not — everyone.  Everyone. 
(Applause.)

And, folks — and it saves the American taxpayers money.  Guess what that
one little act did when we passed it?  It saves the American taxpayers
$160 billion — (applause) — $160 billion.  They no longer have to pay
$400.  They pay $35, among other things.

Folks, for — people have talked about giving Medicare the power to
negotiate lower prices for prescription drugs the federal government
pays just like VA pays.  I’ve been fighting for that since I — and the
congressman and I have been fighting for that since we were almost kids
in the Congress.  (Laughter.)  Well, guess what?  We finally got it
done. 

Now, that’s not just saving seniors money.  As I said, it’s saving
taxpayers, and the federal deficit is down by $160,000 — 160
<s>million</s> \[billion\] bucks in the next 10 years.  Medicare will no
longer have to pay exorbitant, big prices.

Because of the law I signed, Medicare is able to continue to negotiate
lower prices for some other of the costliest drugs — for example, for
heart disease, for arthritis.  Now it’s time to go further and give
Medicare the power to negotiate lower prices for even more drugs over
the next decade. 

This along with other nations — and other actions we’ve taken — but this
first time for us — will not only save lives, it’s going to save the
taxpayers an additional $200 billion on top of the $160.  This saves
money.  Saves money.

Because the law I signed, starting next year, we’ve capped total
prescription drug costs for seniors on Medicare at $2,000 a year no
matter what the total costs are, even for expensive cancer drugs that
cost $10-, $12-, $14-, $15,000 a year.  It’s going to be capped at
$2,000 a year and save a hell of a lot more money as well.

And, folks, I want to make sure that’s available for everyone.  That’s
my objective in a second term.  (Applause.)

And, by the way, the pharmaceutical company will still make billions of
dollars.  They’re not going to go broke. 

Folks, here’s the deal.  My predecessor and MAGA Republicans in Congress
have a different plan.  Let’s remember four years ago this month we saw
how my predecessor didn’t care much about science and reason.

During the pandemic that went on to claim 1 million American lives — and
for every life claimed, it’s estimated there’s between 8 and 10 people
left behind — Trump didn’t level with the American people.  He told
Americans all they had to do was inject bleach in themselves.  Remember
that?  Not a joke.  You’d think I’m making this up if you were — “Just
take a sh- — or take a real shot of U- — of UV light.”

Even before the pandemic, my Republican — Republicans in Congress were
hell-bent on getting rid of the ACA, and they came within one vote.  But
a close friend of mine — we used to argue like hell, but we spent a lot
of time together over the years.  But it failed because of my deceased
friend John McCain going like this.  (The President makes a thumbs-down
gesture.)  (Applause.)

But even during the deadly pandemic, Trump and his MAGA friends in
Congress wanted to get rid of the ACA, kick millions of Americans off
their health insurance.

It’s sick.

Now they want to, quote — his word — “terminate” the ACA, as my
predecessor says.  If that ever were to happen, we’d also terminate a
lot of lives as well.  But we’re not going to let that happen, are we?  
  
AUDIENCE:  No!  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  We’re not going to let that happen.

Here’s what it would mean if they get rid of the ACA.

Because of Donald Trump and his MAGA Republicans in Congress, 45 million
people nationwide would lose their health insurance, including 1.4
million right here in North Carolina.  A hundred million Americans with
pre-existing conditions, from heart disease to asthma, could lose their
protection as well.  And millions of young people, like a 20-year-old
kid who just graduated from college could be kicked off his parents’
plan because he can’t stay on until he’s 26 any longer.

Trump and the MAGA Republican officials want to take us back where
cancer patients were cut off from insurance halfway through the chemo
because they’d reached what they call “their limit” and that — what
their willing to pay — the insurance company.

They want to take us back when women could be charged more for
healthcare and preventive services like mammograms and they’d no longer
be free.   
  
And — I’m seri- — this is what — if you didn’t know any better, you’d
think I’m making this stuff up.   
  
But they aren’t stopping there.  MAGA Republicans in Congress just
proposed a plan to get rid of the power of Medicare to negotiate lower
prescription drugs, which could drive the cost of insulin back to 400
bucks a month instead of $35 for seniors and so much more.  No, I’m —
this is their —  
  
They plan to slash Medicaid as a result.  It could close out a hundred
rural hospitals — hundreds of rural hospitals.  You know how these rural
hospitals make it?  They make it because of the healthcare plans that p-
— made available through the ACA.  That’s how they can afford to stay
open.  So many across the country — rural plans are closing because they
couldn’t keep it open.  They couldn’t afford to stay open.  
  
The Republican plan would deny millions of seniors with diabetes
\[disabilities\] access to quality long-term care they get now under
Medicaid.

That includes 30 million children who now have access to Medicaid —
they’d be at risk of losing that coverage as well.

Trump also recently said, about Social Security and Medicare — he said,
quote — I’m quoting — “There’s a lot you can do in terms of cutting. 
Tremendous amount of things you can do” — if you cut.

Right on cue, the same budget that 180 House Republicans just proposed
to gut Medicare and Medicaid — they’d also raise Social Security
retirement age and slash Medicare, giving billions of dollars in tax
breaks to the very wealthy instead.  They proposed another $2 trillion
tax cut.  They raised the debt la- — larger than anybody did in four
years, and they’re going to — about to do it again if they win.

I have a better idea.  I’ll protect Social Security and Medicare.

Instead of giving the very wealthy another $2 billion — $2 trillion tax
cut, I’m going to make sure the wealthy begin to fin- — pay their fair
share of taxes to sustain these programs.  (Applause.)

Folks, my predecessor and MAGA officials are going after seniors and
people with disabilities and children.  As we all know, they’re going
after women as well.

Trump proudly says, quote, “After 50 years with no one coming close, I
was able to kill Roe v. Wade.”  That’s his statement.  You’ve seen it on
television.

Well, he’s talking about how Donald Trump killed Roe v. Wade.  He says
it has to be “punishment” for women exercising their reproductive
freedom.

Trump and MAGA Republicans are responsible for the chaos that followed,
and they’re now calling for a national ban on choice for every state —
in every state, not just what is in law now.

On top of that, just this morning, the Supreme Court heard a case to gut
access to a medication that was approved by the FDA 20 years ago to give
women a choice.

Folks, if America sends me a Congress that are Democrats, I promise you,
Kamala and I will restore Roe v. Wade as the law of the land again. 
(Applause.)  We will.  
  
Folks — (applause) — look, let me close with this.  History is made when
you decide there’s a greater risk in doing nothing rather than doing
something when it comes to the health and well-being of the nation.

Through the leadership of President Obama, we made history with the
Affordable Care Act.  And while there are those who want to take us back
in time, all of us together are determined to move us forward.  And
here’s the future I see.

I see a future where we defend democracy, not diminish democracy.  I see
a future where healthcare is a right and we restore the freedom to
choose and protect the freedoms, not to — and not take it away.  I see a
future where the middle class finally has a fair shot and the wealthy
begin to pay their fair share.  (Applause.)  
  
Folks, you notice the leading economists aren’t making much fun of
Bidenomics anymore.  They’re thinking maybe it works to build from the
middle out and the bottom up.  The wealthy can still be very wealthy.   
  
You know how many billionaires there are in America?  There’s now a
thousand billionaires.  You know what their average tax they pay —
federal tax?  8.2 percent.  Anybody want to trade with a billionaire —
their tax rate?  (Laughter.)   
  
Well, guess what?  If they just paid 25 percent — it’s not the highest
bracket by a longshot — 25 percent — do you know what that would do? 
That would raise $40- — $400 billion over the next 10 years. 

Imagine what we could do with that.  We could fundamentally sh- — slash
the federal deficit.  We could make sure there’s home care.  We could do
so many things — consequential — including finally making sure that we
take care of Ukraine from that butcher Putin.  (Applause.)

Look, I see a future where we save the planet from the climate crisis
and our country from gun violence.  Above all, a future for all
Americans, for a country of all Americans, and I’ll always be president
for all Americans.

I’ve never been more optimistic about our future.  And I know I’m only
40 years old — (laughter) — times 2, plus 1.  (Laughter.)

Look, we just have to remember who in God’s name we are.  And I mean
this sincerely, and I’ll end with this.  We’re the United States of
America.

No, I’m serious.  We’re the United States of America.  We’re the only
country in the world that’s come out of every crisis stronger than we
went in — the only country in the world.

There is nothing beyond our capacity when we act together — not a single
thing. 

This is the United States of America.  Let’s get together and get it
done.

God bless you all.  And may God protect our troops.

Thank you, thank you, thank you. (Applause.)

This is the guy, right here — (applause) — one of the best governors in
America.  All right.  (Inaudible.) 

Thanks, everybody.  (Applause.)

Every time I’d walk out of my grandfather’s house up in Scranton, he’d
yell, “Joey, keep the faith.”  And my grandmother would yell, “No,
Joey.  Spread it.”  Let’s go spread the faith, guys.  (Applause.)

Thank you.

  4:04 P.M. EDT
