---
date: '2024-03-20'
modified_time: 2024-03-20 13:46:27-04:00
published_time: 2024-03-20 13:46:26-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/03/20/remarks-by-president-biden-vice-president-harris-first-lady-jill-biden-and-maria-shriver-at-a-womens-history-month-reception-march-18-2024/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden, Vice President Harris, First Lady Jill\_Biden,\
  \ and Maria Shriver at a Women\u2019s History Month Reception (March 18,\_2024)"
---
 
11:55 A.M. EDT

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Greetings, everyone.  Greetings and Happy Women’s
History Month.  (Applause.)  
  
To our incredible President, Joe Biden, who, of course, we all know as a
tireless fighter for the safety and wellbeing of women.  To our First
Lady, Dr. Jill Biden, who is a longstanding, lifelong champion for
women’s health and women’s health research.  To the first Second
Gentleman of the United States, my husband, Doug Emhoff — (applause) —
who’s been a powerful advocate for gender equity.  And to the members of
our administration and all the extraordinary leaders.  And I’m going to
come to Maria later.  (Laughter.)  It is an honor to be with all of you.

So, this month, and every month, we honor the women who shaped our
nation and our world through their vision, courage, determination, and
incredible skill, and upon whose broad shoulders we all stand.  
  
So, as many of you know, my mother was a scientist.  And when she began
her career, only 7 percent of science and engineering PhD graduates were
women — and even fewer, of course, were women of color.  
  
My mother had two goals in her life: to raise her two daughters — my
sister, Maya, and me — and to end breast cancer. 

And because of the fact that our mother never asked anyone permission to
pursue her dreams, within one generation, I stand before you as the
first woman Vice President of the United States.  (Applause.)

Thank you.  (Applause.)  (Laughs.)  Thank you.  Thank you, thank you. 
Thank you.

And as Vice President, I have traveled to 20 countries in every
hemisphere in the world.  And I believe the measure of the strength of a
democracy is measured based on the standing of its women. 
(Applause.)   
  
President Joe Biden and I, then, have been very intentional — and he’s
been an extraordinary leader of our country — in ensuring that we do all
that we can to lift up the status of the women of our nation, including
their economic status, understanding, of course, that when you lift the
economic status of women, families benefit, communities benefit, and all
of society benefits.  (Applause.)  
  
And so, with that knowledge, we have taken on issues like student loan
debt, understanding women carry nearly two thirds of all student loan
debt — two thirds.  And we have cancelled nearly $138 billion in student
loan debt — (applause) — for almost 4 million Americans and counting, an
average of more than $30,000 per person.  And for public servants,
including our teachers, of whom more than 70 percent are women —
(applause) —

THE FIRST LADY:  (Inaudible.)

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — (laughs) — and one quarter of this stage —
(laughter).  And for those who are in public service, like our teachers,
we have forgiven an average of over $60,000 in student loan debt. 
(Applause.)

To lift up the economic status of women, we have also invested in women
entrepreneurs and small-business owners.  
  
Across our nation, millions of women want to start or grow a business
but don’t necessarily have access to the capital that allows them to do
that.  So, building on work that I did with many of you in the United
States Senate and under the leadership of our President, we have now
invested billions of dollars to expand access to capital for women
entrepreneurs.   
  
To lift up the status of women — (applause) — we have lowered the cost
of healthcare, in particular, the cost — (applause) — in particular, the
cost of insulin for our seniors.  What many of the leaders here know is
that a fifth — one fifth — of women over the age of 65 have diabetes and
far too many have had to make the choice between either being able to
afford to fill their prescription or fill their refrigerator.   
  
We also know seniors who are women are 80 percent more likely to live in
poverty, so the President and I and our administration capped the cost
of insulin for our seniors at $35 a month.  (Applause.)   
  
But even as we lift up the women and all people of our nation, there are
those who are intent on dragging us backward.   
  
At this moment, in states across our nation, we are witnessing a full-on
attack against hard-fought, hard-won freedoms and rights, including the
right of women to make decisions about their own body and not have their
government tell them what to do.  (Applause.)   
  
Today, in America, one in three women of reproductive age live in a
state with an abortion ban.   
  
Since Roe was overturned, I have met women who have had miscarriages
in toilets because they were refused care, women who went to an
emergency room to receive care and were rejected because the healthcare
providers there thought they would be sued and potentially sent to jail
if they administered care.  And it was only when she developed sepsis
that she received care.   
  
Just last week, I visited a clinic in Minnesota, where I met with
medical professionals — courageous and dedicated women who provide
critical healthcare and who see, like we all do, clinics across our
country, which have been closing and forced to close, leaving millions
of women without access to essential, everyday, lifesaving care.   
  
So, in conclusion, I’ll just say this.  There is so much at stake in
this moment.  
  
And we each face a question: What kind of country do we want to live
in?  Do we want to live in a country of liberty, freedom, and rule of
law or a country of disorder, fear, and hate? 

Each of us has the power to answer that question with our feet, with our
voice, and with our vote.  (Applause.) 

So, let us continue — let us continue to fight for our freedoms.  And as
we know from our history, when we fight, we win.  (Applause.)  There we
are. 

And now it is my great honor to introduce someone that I have known for
many, many years, who is an extraordinary leader in every way and has
done so much for the women of America and for the women of my home state
of California, and a friend to all of us, the great Maria Shriver. 
(Applause.)

MS. SHRIVER:  Thank you, Madam Vice President.  As she just told me,
that stands for “MVP.”  (Laughter.)  I like that.  I like that.

Mr. President, Dr. Biden, thank you so much for inviting me here today. 
And all of you.  I’d like to tell you to sit, but there’s no chairs. 
(Laughter.)  But I — I want to say how extraordinary it is to see all of
you, to see your faces, to watch you listen to the Vice President, to
see the joy in your faces, to be with you all here to celebrate women’s
history in this extraordinary historic home.

You can just close your eyes and imagine the history that has been made
here.  You can see it on the walls.  You can see it everywhere.  You can
feel it when you walk in.

But today — today is a day to keep your eyes wide open, because you, my
friends, are about to watch history get made.

For the first time ever in our nation, a president — that guy right
there — (laughter and applause) — he is going to sign an executive order
that will transform the way our federal government deals with women’s
health.

This executive order will direct the most comprehensive set of executive
actions ever taken to ensure that women’s health gets integrated and
prioritized across all federal agencies.

It will galvanize new research on a wide range of topics and help
prevent, diagnose, and treat women’s health conditions once and for
all.  (Applause.)

I also wager — and I’m not even a betting woman, but I’ll bet today that
this is the first time a President of the United States has ever signed
an executive order that mentions the words “menopause” and — (laughter
and applause) — and “women’s” — and “women’s midlife health” in it.

With the stroke of his pen, women will get the answers and the care they
have long sought and they so rightly deserve.  (Applause.)

In the time since I first sat in the First Lady’s office last April
talking about the need for a new comprehensive plan around women’s
health research, this White House, Jen Klein, Dr. Mazure, Secretary
Becerra, the entire White House, women of all ages, races, religions,
and all political backgrounds, they came together and they have
transformed — they have coordinated a revolution that will transform
care for the 165 million American women in this country — women of all
ages, all races, all ethnicities, and all political backgrounds.

This President has also called on Congress to make a bold, big, brave
investment of $12 billion.  (Applause.)  Think about that.

I remember saying to the First Lady, “We need to get at least a billion
dollars.”  (Laughter.)  And then, she said, “How’s 12?”  I’m like,
“That’s good.  I’ll take it.”  (Laughter.)  But he called for $12
billion dollars — think about that — in new funding for women’s health
research.  (Applause.)

This is an extraordinary example of government working quickly and
working for those who have left behind.

Dr. Biden, you deserve to stand so proud in this moment.  (Applause.) 
It’s true.

She took this mission up the flagpole, through the halls of government,
into the Oval Office, and transformed the way government sees us.  (The
President makes the sign of the cross.)  (Laughter.)  She and her
husband have launched an entire new era for women’s health research.

This is an undertaking that could only be put into a motion by a
president who respects women — (applause) — by a man who sees women, who
understands women, and who wants the best for women, who wants us all to
achieve our highest potential.

Not too long ago, I was asked, “Maria, why do we need women’s health
research?  Why does this matter?”  I was like, “Let me tell you.” 
(Laughter.) 

It matters because women do not, nor do their doctors, have the
necessary research or data to make informed decisions.  It matters
because women are sicker than they have ever been, and no one knows
why.  It matters because women make up two thirds of those with
Alzheimer’s and no one knows why that is.

We make up 80 percent of those with autoimmune diseases, the majority of
those with MS.  No one knows why that is.   
  
Black and brown women are more likely to develop endometriosis and face
pregnancy-related complications, and we don’t have the research to tell
them what to do about it.

This matters because when women ask questions, they can’t get answers
because the majority of the research that’s been done in this country
has only been done on men.  Most of the medications women take have only
been tested on men. 

That’s not right, that’s not just, and it’s going to change. 
(Applause.)

So, now that the President has done his job, we have to do ours.  We
have to get Congress to approve the $12 billion investment this
President has called for to implement this bold vision.  So every woman,
every philanthropist, every innovator, every advocate, every research,
and every instigator in this room and out of this room needs to get in
on this and join us in this massive undertaking.

And make no mistake, this is a massive undertaking.  But as those of you
who are gathered in this room know very well, women have never shied
away from massive undertakings.  We have changed history over and over
again.  And guess what?  We get to do it one more time.  (Applause.)

You know, today when I walked in here with my son, Christopher, and my
brothers, Timmy and Mark — and Mark is the one that got me in the door,
so I have to thank him — (laughter) — I couldn’t help but think of my —
our mother, Eunice Kennedy Shriver.  (Applause.)

Our mother spent a lot of time in this house, pressuring her brother,
President John F. Kennedy, to make changes for families who had children
with intellectual disabilities.  She pressured him to understand that it
mattered whether they were included in research and whether they were
included in all areas of life.

She got to change history because he listened.  She was a force of
nature.  But she was also a woman who struggled her entire life and our
entire lives with her health.

She had stomach issues.  She had gut issues.  She had sleep issues.  And
every doctor she went through — went to — and she traveled all over this
country visiting doctors, trying to get help, trying to get answers. 
She couldn’t get any answers because they told her, “We don’t have any
answers for you.”

Everywhere she went, they told her to relax.  (Laughter.)  They told her
that maybe she was under stress, that maybe it was in her head.  That
didn’t go over well.  (Laughter.)  They gave her medications that made
it so she couldn’t sleep, that she couldn’t eat.

She ended up in a cycle that so many women find themselves in.  Instead
of getting better, she just kept getting worse.  Her needs were
dismissed time and time again.  And she was the sister of the President
of the United States. 

So, imagine what it’s like for millions of women who have no
connections, who have no help, who can’t even get time off for work to
visit a doctor.

The research and answers and the hope they need will now be on the way
because of this man.  Imagine how long this has taken for us to get to
this moment.  Imagine what it has taken for us to bring about this
transformative change.

Women of America, this is our moonshot.  I call it “the Minerva
Challenge.”  (Laughter.)  It’s way bigger than any one of us standing
here or any one of us listening out in the country.

We need to come together to bring this $12 billion home.  If we want our
children, our sisters, our mothers, and our grandmothers to be able to
hold the world upon their shoulders, which they are already doing, we
owe them our best efforts and we owe them the best research that we can.

So, let’s come together and do this for every single woman who has felt
her health concerns have been dismissed, for every single woman who has
been told to relax, for every single woman who has been told, “This is
in your head.  You don’t feel what you tell me you feel.” God forbid.

Today, we join forces and we begin anew.  We begin together.

With this moonshot and by working together, we can finally singl- —
signal to women of all ages that, at long last, we really do love them
and value them to the moon and back.

Now — (applause) — now it is my great honor to introduce the woman who
without none of this — none of this would be possible without her —
without her ability to take this up the flagpole, without her
persistence, and without her passion, my great friend, Dr. Jill Biden. 
(Applause.)

THE FIRST LADY:  Quote, “If you don’t have an idea that materializes and
changes a person’s life, then what have you got?  You have talk,
research, telephone calls, meetings, but you don’t have a change in the
community,” end quote.  Eunice Kennedy Shriver.  (Applause.)  
  
Maria, you live your mother’s words purely, lovingly, and relentlessly. 
(Laughter.)   
  
Thank you for your life’s work and for being an amazing partner in this
effort.  Thank you.  (Applause.)  
  
So, good morning.   
  
AUDIENCE:  Good morning.  
  
THE FIRST LADY:  In the early 1970s, researchers in the United States
studied estrogen’s effect in preventing heart attacks.  You see, it was
observed that women who had gone through menopause — therefore, who had
lower levels of estrogen — were likely to have heart attacks.  So, a
study was conducted asking whether estrogen prevents heart attacks. 
Eight thousand three hundred and forty-one people were selected for that
study.  All of them were men.  (Laughter.)  
  
This is how things were done.  Even though women are half the
population, women’s health research has been underfunded and
understudied.  Too many of our medications, treatments, and medical
school textbooks are based on men and their bodies.  
  
But that ends today.  (Applause.)  
  
Finally, women will get the healthcare we deserve.  In just a few
moments, my husband, President Biden — (applause) — (laughs) — see, Joe,
now I just have to say your name and — (laughter) — will sign the most
comprehensive executive — executive order in history to advance research
on women’s health.  
  
So, on behalf of all of us, thank you, Joe.  (Applause.)  
  
If you ask any woman in America about her healthcare, she probably has a
story to tell.  You all know her.  She’s the woman who gets debilitating
migraines but doesn’t know why and can’t find treatment options that
work for her.  She’s the woman going through menopause who visits her
doctor and leaves with more questions than answers, even though half the
country will go through menopause at some point in their lives.  
  
She’s the woman whose heart attack isn’t recognized because her symptoms
don’t look like a man’s, even as heart disease is the leading cause of
death among women.   
  
So many of us and so many of the women in our lives suffer from health
conditions for which we simply don’t have the answers or the
solutions.   
  
Think about it.  You might have the best doctors or the best insurance,
but when it comes to Alzheimer’s, endiom- — endimet — endio- —  
  
AUDIENCE:  Endometriosis.    
  
THE FIRST LADY:  Thank you.  (Laughs.)  And I’m an English teacher. 
(Laughter.)  
  
— IBS, or disruptive menopausal symptoms, is that enough?  No.  We
simply don’t know enough about how to prevent, detect, or treat the
conditions that affect women uniquely, disproportionately, or
differently.   
  
And that’s the result of a choice, because, for decades, “business as
usual” has meant understudying and underfunding research on women’s
health.  Your president believes that this is unacceptable. 
(Applause.)  
  
When Maria brought this issue to me and Joe less than a year ago, he
knew it could make a real difference.  And that’s what Joe does best. 
He takes action and quickly.  Joe is the first president to make
investing in women’s health research — investing in your health, in our
health — a top priority for the White House.  (Applause.)  
  
It’s no secret that Joe’s accomplishments on healthcare are historic. 
You heard about this — his successes already: reducing healthcare
premiums and prescription drug costs; protection — protecting millions
of patients from surprise medical bills and junk fees; and getting more
Americans covered by insurance.   
  
But it’s important that you know what Joe is doing through this White
House Initiative on Women’s Health Research is different and without
precedent.  He is investing resources and actually understanding the
scientific basis of women’s health conditions, which will allow
researchers, doctors, and industry to find new ways to prevent, detect,
and treat women’s health.  (Applause.)  (Laughs.)  
  
Thanks to Joe’s experience and vision, he’s approaching this problem
differently too.  As President, Joe created ARPA-H, a new healthcare
agency that pursues breakthroughs in health research at lightning
speed.   
  
Just a few weeks ago, ARPA-H launched its first-ever sprint for women’s
health, putting $100 million into women’s health research and
development.  (Applause.)  
  
And during his State of the Union Address, Joe called on Congress to
invest $12 billion into women’s health and research, giving researchers
the funding needed to make the kinds of discoveries that will change
everything.  And he’s calling, just like Maria did, on entrepreneurs,
investors, private industries, and philanthropists to do their part,
because it’s going to take all of us.  
  
Joe is fighting to finally deliver the answer that millions of women
need about their health.  This executive order wouldn’t be possible
without so many women who have been at this work for decades — many of
them doctors who are here with us today: Valerie, Susan, Carolyn, and so
many others.  
  
So, today, as we celebrate Women’s History Month, let’s write a new
future for ourselves, for the girls and the women who will follow — a
future where women leave doctors’ offices with more answers than
questions; a future where no woman or girl has to hear, like Maria said,
“It’s all in your head” or “It’s just stress” — (applause); a future
where women aren’t just an afterthought in a world designed for men but
the first thought in a world designed for everyone; a future where women
don’t just survive, they lead long, healthy, and happy lives.  
  
Today is just the beginning.  Thank you.  (Applause.)  
  
And now, it is my honor to introduce a person who is helping make the
future a reality: my husband, the President of the United States, Joe
Biden.  (Applause.)  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  My name is Joe Biden.  (Laughter.)  I’m Jill Biden’s
husband.  (Laughter and applause.)   
  
Folks, Happy Women’s History Month.  (Applause.)  
  
I’m smart enough to know that when you have Ji- — Jill, Kamala, and
Maria, and all of you — the most powerful, accomplished women — in the
room all at once, it’s — I’m — I just should hush up, as my mom said,
and leave.  (Laughter.)  
  
But all kidding aside, just let me say this.  Yesterday was St.
Patrick’s Day here at the White House.  Today is Women Histories Mo- —
Women’s History Month — two of the best days of the year back to back. 
(Laughter and applause.)

The late Irish poet Eavan Boland wrote, “I’ve learned my name.  I rise.
 I rose up.  I remembered it.  And now I can tell my story.  It was
different from the story told about me,” end of quote. 

That poem entitled “Mother Ireland,” but she captures the spirit of
women’s history in America as well.  

And, you know, in your own way, all of you are — generations of women
before you have risen up, shown your power, and told your story.  It’s
made all the difference in the world in telling the full story of
America.    
We’re the only nation in the world divided — and devined — defined —
every other nation is defined based on geography or — or ethnicity. 
We’re the only nation based on an idea.  Think about it.  “We hold these
truths to be self-evident, that all women and men are created equal,
endowed by…” — et cetera.  Treated equally our whole lives, it’s
supposed to be.  We’ve never fully lived up to that, but we — we’ve
never walked away from it either. 

But Jill and I, Kamala and Doug, and the entire administration have
never walked away from it either, especially when it comes to women. 

To state the obvious, women are half the population, underrepresented
across the board.  But not in my administration.  (Applause.) 

To state the — state the truth, all the women in our family are brighter
than all the men, so it’s not a hard decision.  (Laughter.)  
  
We’re proud to have an administration that looks like America, with more
women serving in senior positions than any time in American history. 
Our his- — his- — our historic Vice President, who is doing an
incredible job.  (Applause.)  The Cabinet and staff at every level
across the administration, including military women who have gotten
confirmed for two four-star generals to lead combat — combat committees
— (applause) — the second and third women ever to do so, as well as the
first woman ever to be on the Joint Chiefs of Staff.  
  
It matters.  
  
Together, we’ve put the first Black woman on the United States Supreme
Court.  (Applause.)  And I’m mildly prejudiced, but I think she’s the
brightest person on the Court.  (Laughter.)  And more Black women on the
federal circuit courts of appeals than all previous presidents
combined. (Applause.)   
  
And together, we’ve made historic progress through one of the toughest
periods that our nation has ever been through. 

Folks — and as Jill just talked about, we’ve launched the first-ever
White House Initiative on Women’s Health Research to pioneer the next
generation of scientific research and discovery in women’s health. 
Think of all the breakthroughs we’ve made in medicine across the board,
but women have not been the focus.  Research has been taking much too
long to get to you all.   
  
I’ve called on Congress, as we’ve said — I’m repeating myself here — $12
billion for that effort.  And today — (applause) — today, we’re
jumpstarting that investment by dedicating $200 million to the National
Institute of Health to tackle some of the most pressing health problems
facing women today.    
  
With the executive order I’m about to sign, I’m directing the most
comprehensive set of executive actions ever taken to improve women’s
health — ever taken.  

And I’m going to ensure that women’s health is integrated and
prioritized across the entire federal government.  It’s not just in
women’s health.  It’s not just in NIH.  The National Science Foundation,
the Defense Department, the Environmental Protection Agency — I mean,
across the board, this is really serious.  
  
And I will spearhead new research and innovation for breakthroughs on a
wide range of women’s health needs and — that they experience throughout
your — you experience throughout your lives.  Because it really
matters.  It matters. 

Because we’re focused on supporting women together, our administration
has turned around the economy, because we focused on women, by the way —
focused on women.  (Applause.)  
  
We’ve achieved the lowest unemployment rate for women in 70 years. 
(Applause.)  More women, especially mothers, in the workforce than ever
before; the narrowest gender \[pay\] gap on record; but so much more to
do — so much more to do.  
  
Historic investments in over 225,000 childcare centers, 90 percent of
which are owned by wo- — owned by women and staffed by women so families
can take care of their children and get to work and improve the
economy.  Sixty percent in- — (applause) — sixty percent increase in
loans to small businesses owned by women, totaling $5.1 billion.  We’re
just getting started.  
  
Through my American Rescue Plan and the Child Tax Credit, we cut child
poverty nearly in half.  That’s a fact.  (Applause.)  Which I might add,
my Republican friends tell me we’re spending a lot of money?  It’s
saving billions of dollars — saving billions of dollars.  We’re actually
cutting the deficit too.  
  
Republicans voted against it and let it expire, but I’m fighting to
bring the Child Tax Credit back.  (Applause.)  We’re making sure that
women can access jobs in sectors that have been historically
underrepresented: manufacturing, construction, clean energy.    
  
And I make i- — no apologies for being pro-union, but I tell you what —
(applause) — we had very (inaudible) meetings with the union
leadership.  Not a joke.  I said I want you to show me on a yearly basis
increased number of women in unions, an increased number of minorities
in unions.  (Applause.)  
  
All kidding aside, there’s not a damn thing a man can do that a woman
can’t do.  (Applause.)  To state the obvious, if we want to have the
strongest economy in the world, you can’t leave half the workforce
behind.

As we advance women’s economic empowerment, we’re also ensuring their
physical security.  With the help of so many of you, we’ve brought the
total of investment against — Violence Against Women Act, which I
proudly spent six years getting passed and wrote when I — as my daughter
said, with my own paw.  (Laughter.)   
  
We proudly wrote — we’ve provided $700 million in 2023 — most ever —
funding for everything from community groups focused on prevention,
establishing the first-ever hotline on abuse, holding pr- — predators
accountable, et cetera.  It matters a lot.  (Applause.)

Because of women leaders in Congress, I also signed the most significant
gun safety law in nearly 30 years — (applause) — to keep guns out of the
hands of convicted domestic abusers.  The idea I had to fight to get
that done?  Domes- — convicted domestic abusers were not allowed, under
the law I wrote, that’s saying the — they can’t own a weapon.  
  
And so, we — in addition to that, we finally got it passed.  I ca- —
anyway.  (Laughter.)  
  
So our children can learn to read and write, not learn how to duck and
cover in school.  I mean, seriously, think about that.  In the y- — in
the year 2024, we’re talking about children learning to duck and cover
in school?   
  
But I will not stop until I ban assault weapons again and high-capacity
magazines.  (Applause.)  Not a joke.  
  
That doesn’t abuse the Second Amendment.  You’ve never been able to have
any weapon.  That never was the case from the very beginning.

We created reforms that fundamentally shift how our military
investigates and prosecutes sexual afuse — assault and domestic abuse. 
And by the way, she’s not here today, but you all — all thank Kirsten B-
— Gillibrand for that fight — (inaudible).  (Applause.)  
  
We’re also continuing to stand with women and girls worldwide against
rape and sexual violence used as weapons of war and terror.  And we’ve
spoken on it.  We’re one of the few leaders in the world that have
spoken against it, because we’re going to — and we’re punishing
countries that engage in it.

But, folks, as I said in my State of the Union Address, there’s no
ordinary time in our history.  Democracy is literally at stake here at
home and abroad.  Our basic freedoms are under assault: freedom to vote,
the freedom to choose, and so much more.   
  
My predecessor and his allies in Congress make no apologies for it.   
  
But here’s the deal: In its decision to overturn Roe v. Wade, the
Supreme Court wrote, quote, “Women are not without e- — electoral and/or
political power.”  (Applause.)  No kidding.  (Applause.)   
  
As they say in Claymont, Delaware, where I spent my childhood, “They
ain’t seen nothing yet.”  (Laughter.)  
  
No, I’m serious, though.  Clearly, those bragging about overturning Roe
v. Wade who support a national ban on abortion have no clue about the
power of women.  I mean it sincerely.  (Applause.)

But they’re finding out.   
  
When reproductive freedom was on the ballot, the American people spoke
in 2022 and <s>2024</s> \[2023\].  And with the leadership of this woman
to my left here, they’re going to speak out again in 2024. 
(Applause.)   
  
If you send me a Democratic Congress that supports reproductive freedom,
I promise you — I promise you, we will restore Roe v. Wade again as the
law of the land.  (Applause.)  

Look, you’ve been standing a long time.  (Laughter.)  So, let me
conclude this.  You can’t lead America with old ideas that take us
backwards.  To lead America — I was with Xi Jinping in the Tibetan
Plateau.  I traveled 17,000 miles with him.  I’ve spent more time with
him than any other world leader.  And on the Plateau, he asked me, “Can
you define America for me?”  This is the God’s truth.   
  
And I said, “Yes, I can.  One word: possibilities.”  We’re the only
nation in the world that believes anything is possible.   
  
To lead the land of possibilities, we need a vision for the future
laying out what we can and should do and what we’re going to do.  I’ve
made it clear I see — a future I see.   
  
I see a future where we defend democracy, not diminish it; a future
where we restore the right to choose and protect our freedoms, not take
them away; a future where the middle-class family has a fair shot and
the wealthy begin to pay their fair taxes. 

I see a future where we save the planet from the climate crisis and our
country from gun violence.  All within our power.   
  
And, above all, I see a future for all of America, a future for my
daughter and my four granddaughters.  And, by the way, they’re s- —
they’re incredible.  You should meet my granddaughters.  (Laughter.) 
Oh, you think I’m kidding.  I’m not.  
  
A future for all women.  And I will always be a president for all
Americans because I believe in America.  And without any exaggeration, I
believe in you.  You’re the reason I’m more optimistic than I’ve ever
been in my entire career.   
  
So — so, let’s — let’s rise up, know — know our power, tell our
story.   
  
And let’s remember who we are, for God’s sake.  We’re the United States
of America.  There is nothing beyond our capacity — nothing, nothing,
nothing — when we work together.  (Applause.)

May God bless you all.  And may God protect our troops.  (Applause.)  
  
You are the best.  It’s is a great honor.  (Applause.)  No, I really —
thank you.  Thank you, thank you, thank you.  (Applause.)  
  
(The President holds hands with the First Lady.)  I just wanted to hold
your hand.  
  
I like to embarrass her and hold her hand in public.  (Laughter.)  
  
I’m going to sign this executive order now.  (Applause.)

(The executive order is signed.)  
  
Thank you, thank you, thank you.  
  
THE FIRST LADY:  Thanks.  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Thanks for getting her in.  (Laughter.)  
  
Thanks, everybody.  (Applause.)  
  
Mark my words, in four years, you’re going to see significant change in
women’s health.  I promise you.  (Applause.)

12:38 P.M. EDT
