---
date: '2024-03-11'
published_time: 2024-03-11 17:36:28-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/03/11/remarks-by-president-biden-on-lowering-healthcare-costs-for-american-families-goffstown-nh/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on Lowering Healthcare Costs for American Families\
  \ | Goffstown,\_NH"
---
 
YMCA Allard Center  
Goffstown, New Hampshire

2:06 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT:  Hello, hello, hello.  (Applause.)

Good to see you all.  Good to see you all.  Thank you.

By the way, Bowdoin College — good college.  I’ve spoken there.

Thanks, Rose.  Thanks for that introduction. 

And please have a seat — take a seat, if you have one.  Because I said
that once early in my career, and they said, “We have no seats.  Biden
didn’t even know they were standing.”  (Laughter.)

Anyway, thanks for that introduction, Rose, and for your — your
courage.  Twenty-two years old, born with cystic fibrosis — a tough
chronic disease that’s made even tougher — and she’s not exaggerating —
by the high cost of medicines and, particularly, certain drugs that are
needed. 

You know, Rose, you’re not alone.  I’m — I’m thinking about millions of
Americans out there who are lying in bed at night, staring at the
ceiling, wondering: What if it happens?  What if it happens to me?  How
am I going to pay for it?  How will I do it?  The mothers, the fathers
wondering if their children come down with a chronic disease, how are
they going to deal with it.

Not a joke.  You’re going to have to sell the house.  You’re going to
have to mortgage.  What are you going to have to do?  It’s
consequential.  Can you afford the medical bills? 

Look, folks, as I said in my State of the Union, I’m — I’m doing
everything I can to lower the healthcare cost to provide peac- — people
with peace of mind — not at the expense of doctors or medicine or
hospitals or the drug companies but just to make it fair. 

Look, and we’re so lucky to have a great congressional delegation,
including two of the — without hyperbole, two of the best senators in
the United States Senate I’ve ever served with.  (Applause.)  Maggie
Hassan.  Stand up, Maggie.  (Applause.) 

And Jeanne Shaheen couldn’t make it today, but she — she’s a dear, dear
friend and a great ally and — but she sent somebody who if I have to be
in a fight, I want them in my corner.  (Laughter.)  Stand up, pal. 
(Applause.)  Billy — Billy Shaheen.  

Look, I’m here in New Hampshire to talk about the budget I released
today that would — would, I think, help in a big way. 

As you just heard Rose — many — heard her say, many Americans pay
prescription drugs — more money than anywhere in the country.  I can —
if I got you on Air Force One with me and flew you to Toronto, to — to
Berlin, to — to London, to Rome, anyplace in the — in the world, with
the same prescription you might have for whatever you need, no matter
what it is, and you — we could — by the same company, you could get it
in all those cities.  And guess what?  It’d cost you between 40 to 60
percent less.  That’s a fact.  That’s not hyperbole; that’s a fact.

And it’s wrong.  And guess what?  I’ve been trying for years and years
as a U.S. senator to end it, and I’m ending it now.  (Applause.)

Through the Inflation Reduction Act, a law I proposed and signed — not
one Republican, I might add, voted for it — we finally beat Big Pharma. 
Capped total prescription drugs costs for seniors on Medicare at $2,000
a year, even for expensive drugs, maximum. 

Right now, for example, it’s al- — this is already passed.  I got it
passed already — we got it passed.  That beginning in the — next year,
at the end of this c- — this term, what’s going to happen is the cost
for all these prescription drugs for seniors, including cancer drugs
that cost 10-, 12-, 15,000 bucks a year, will not have to pay more than
$2,000 a year, period.  (Applause.)

And working with Maggie and Jeanne, I want to cap prescription drug
costs at $2,000 a year for Rose and for everyone, not just seniors.  It
could be transformational.

But that’s not all.  Instead of paying as much as 400 bucks a month for
insulin for seniors with diabetes, you now only have to pay 35 bucks a
month.  You know why we did that?  I’ve been fighting that a long time
too.  I bet every one of you know somebody who needs insulin for
diabetes — yourself or somebody else.

Well, it costs as much as 400 a month.  You know how much it costs to
make that?  Ten dollars — T-E-N — ten.  Ten dollars.  And the guy who
came up with the — with it, he didn’t want to patent it because he
wanted to make sure everybody had access to it.

So, if you add everything, including the cost of packaging it, it’s 13
bucks.  They’re still making three times more than they would
ordinarily.  They’re not getting cheated.  They’re just going to pay
what other people pay around the world.

And now, with Jeanne’s leadership and Maggie’s partnership, that’s not
the entire — and the entire delegation that’s here, I want to cap the
cost of insulin at 35 bucks for every American — every American. 
(Applause.)

When I first got it passed, it included all Americans.  When we got it
reauthorized, the oth- — the other team wouldn’t do — said only for
seniors. 

Look, for years, people talked about — talked about this, but we finally
got it done and gave Medicare the power to negotiate lower drug
prescription costs, just like the VA has been able to do for veterans
for a long, long time.  It’s not just saving seniors money; it’s saving
every taxpayer money.  It’s cutting the federal deficit. 

Just what we’ve just done so far cut the federal deficit over time by
$160 billion.  That’s $160 billion Medicare does not have to pay out
because they’re paying a rational price for the drug, not just the
exorbitant price from before.

Look, this year, Medicare is negotiating lower prices for some of the
costliest drugs on the market that treat everything from heart disease
to arthritis.  That’s in the law that we’ve already passed.  Now, it’s
time to go further and give Medicare the power to negotiate lower prices
for even more drugs over the next decade. 

Folks, if we’re able to do that, we’ll not only save lives, we’re going
to save taxpayers another estimated $200 billion — $200 billion
taxpayers will not have to pay the drug companies for exorbitant prices
that aren’t warranted.  (Applause.)

And, folks, with Maggie and your delegation’s help, I’ve already cut the
federal deficit by $1 trillion; signed a bipartisan budget to deal to
cut another trillion dollars over the next decade, if they stick with
the deal.  And now, it’s my goal to cut the federal debt even more by
making big corporations and the very wealthy begin to p- — pay their
fair share.

I’m not anti-corporation.  I come fr- — I used to re- — represented the
state of Delaware.  More corporations are incorporated in Delaware than
every other state in America combined — combined.  (Applause.)  But
guess what?  But I’m a capitalist, man.  Make all the money you want,
just begin to pay your fair share of taxes.  (Applause.)

You may remember that big fight I had not long ago — and the reason why
I was able to cut the deficit already by $7 billion in the first year —
and that was because we found out that — we wanted to make sure that —
there were 50 corpor- — 50 corporations that made $40 billion in 2021,
didn’t pay a penny in taxes.  I did an awful thing: I convinced us all
to raise it to 15 percent.  Isn’t that awful?  (Laughter.)  And it paid
for everything that we’ve paid for and we’ve done so far, and still cut
the deficit.

Look, a fair tax code is how we invest in the things that make this
country great — from healthcare, education, defense, and so much more —
research, development. 

But here’s the deal.  The last administration enacted a $2 trillion tax
cut — $2 trillion tax cut the benefits the very wealthy and the top 1
percent, the biggest corporations, and it exploded the federal deficit.

The last administration added more to the national debt than any
presidential term in American history.  Debt.  You know, you turn on the
TV and you think he’s telling the truth?  (Laughter.)  Debt.

Does anybody here think the tax code is fair?  Raise your hand.  Well, I
don’t think so either.  I think if I — I don’t want to get — I’ll get in
trouble with the press, but I bet they wouldn’t even raise their hand. 
(Laughter.)

Do you really think the wealthy and big corporations need another $2
trillion tax breaks?  Because that’s what he wants to do.  His tax cut
is about to expire, and he wants to add another $2 trillion tax cut.

Well, I’m going to keep fighting like hell to make it fair. Under my
plan, as I said, I ran for President and I promised nobody — nobody
will, as long as I’m president, will earn — who earns less than $400,000
— that’s a lot more than I ever made — will pay an additional penny in
federal taxes.  Nobody.  Not a single cent.  Nobody will pay a single
penny more, and they haven’t thus far.

Folks, it’s about fundamental fairness. 

Here’s another example.  You know, folks, Obamacare, it became known as
the Affordable Care Act — and by the way, it’s still a very big deal. 
(Applause.)  Over 100 million of Americans can no longer be denied
health insurance because of preexisting condition.  But my predecessor
and many Republicans want to take that away — take that protection away
by repealing the Affordable Care Act. 

I’m not going to let it happen.  We stopped them, literally, 50 times —
50 — 5-0 — times in the last administration.  And we’re going to stop
them again.  (Applause.) 

Folks, we all miss someone who cast the deciding vote to protect the
Affordable Care Act last — not — not long ago — my buddy John McCain —
passed away.  My predecessor — friend — he — that’s how he ended his
career, voting “no” so we couldn’t — they couldn’t cut it.

John loved New Hampshire, and he still drives my predecessor crazy.  You
know, John is long gone, but that’s John.  (Laughter.)  As my mother
would say, “God love him.” 

Folks, working with your delegation, I’m — I’m protecting and expanding
the Affordable Care Act.  A recordbreaking 21 million Americans have
signed up for healthcare under the ACA, including 65,000 folks right
here in New Hampshire. 

I enacted tax credits that save, on average, $800 per person per year,
reducing healthcare premiums for millions of working families on the
Affordable Care Act.  But those tax credits expire next year, and I’m
calling on Congress to make and expand the Affordable Care Act tax
credits and make them permanent — make them permanent.  (Applause.)

Many of my Republican friends want to put Social Security and Medicare
back on the <s>chocking blop</s> \[chopping\] block again.  If anyone
tries to cut Social Security or Medicare or raise the retirement age
again, I will stop them. 

Work- — (applause) — working people built this country.  They pay more
into Social Security than millionaires and billionaires do.  It’s not
fair. 

Folks, we have two ways to go at Social Security and Medicare. 
Republicans will cut Social Security and Medicare to give us more tax
cuts for the wealthy.  Even this morning, Donald Trump said cuts to
Social Security and Medicare are on the table again.  When asked if he
changed his position, he said, quote, “There is a lot you can do in
terms of cutting.  Tremendous amount of things you can cut.”  Let me be
precise: “Tremendous amount of things you can do,” not “cut.”   He said,
“I will…” — and — but the bottom line is, he’s still at it.  

I’m never going to allow that to happen.  I won’t cut Social Security. 
I won’t cut Medicare.  (Applause.)  Instead of cutting Medicare and
Medica- — give tax breaks to the wealthy, I will protect and strengthen
Social Security and Medicare and make the wealthy begin to pay their
fair share.  In fact, my budget plan would preserve Medicare benefits
and this Medicare Trust Fund. 

Because Maggie’s leadership — because of it, I’m also cracking down on
surprise medical bills.   
  
Here’s the deal.  Do you ho- — do — you know, you go out there and you
do your homework; you choose a hospital, if you need a hospital, based
on what your insurance company will cover.  And then, when you get the
bill, there’s a surprise charge because the hospital assigned a
anesthesiologist or a doc that isn’t in your — under your control, in
your — in your insurance.  That surprise bill can add up to thousands of
dollars — thousands. 

Thanks to Maggie, we ended that surprise billing, and we’re protecting 1
million Americans — (applause) — every single month from those surprise
bills. 

Folks, look, my budget also cracks down on what’s called “facility fees”
for telemedicine.  You get charged an extra fee if you’re in a rural
area and you have a virtual visit where neither you nor your doctor is
actually in the facility.  That’s just another junk fee.  It’s wrong. 
We got to end it.

These surprise medical bills, junk fees add up to hundreds of dollars
for ordinary families like the one I grew up in, and it makes a
difference.  Although, it does generate $20 billion in profit.  That’s
what it does.  
  
Let me close with this.  Four years ago this week, before I came to
office, our country was hit with the biggest, worst pandemic and
economic crisis in a century.  Remember the anxiety and the fear, record
job losses, a raging virus that would take more than 1 million American
lives and leave millions of loved ones behind? 

It was estimated for every one who died left behind eight significant
people — mother, father, brother, sister, aunt, uncle — an empty chair
at the table. 

A mental health crisis that resulted from isolation and loneliness. 

A President, my predecessor, who failed the most basic of any duty a
president owes the American people: a duty to care.  I believe that’s
unforgivable. 

I came to office determined to uphold that duty of — to care and get us
through one of the toughest periods in our nation’s history. 

And we have, building a future of American possibilities; building an
economy from the middle out and the bottom up, not just the top down. 
When the middle grows, the bottom has a chance, the poor have an
opportunity, and the wealthy still do very well.  They still do very
well.  Investing in all America, in all Americans to make sure everyone
has a fair shot, we leave nobody behind — nobody.

Our plan is working, and America is coming back.

Four years later, the pandemic no longer controls our lives.  The
vaccines that saved us from COVID are now being used to beat — help beat
cancer.

Turning setback into a comeback, that’s the American story.  And I
believe we’re moving into a future where healthcare is a right, not a
privilege, in America.  That’s why — (applause) — that’s why I’ve never
been more optimistic about our future. 

We just have to remember who we are.  We’re the United States of
America.  There is nothing — nothing beyond our capacity when we do it
together — nothing.  Seriously.  Not a joke.  
  
We’re the only country that’s ever come out of every crisis stronger
than we went in — stronger than when we went in.   
  
And, folks, give you one little example.  You know, I may not get it
done, but if you give me a Congress, I will.  (Laughter.)  No, I’m
serious.  I may not get it done, but here’s the deal.  If you — you know
how much — we have a thousand billionaires in America.  That’s not a bad
thing, per se.  You know what their average tax rate is?  8.2 percent
taxes.  Anybody want to trade their — their tax rate?  (Laughter.)  No,
I’m serious.  
  
If we just charge them — I had a tax code, they’re charging them 25
percent — not the highest rate — 25 percent.  You know how much that
would raise over the next 10 years?  Four hundred billion dollars.  Four
hundred billion dollars a year.  
  
Imagine what we could do, from cutting the deficit to providing for
child care, to providing healthcare, to continue to provide our military
with all they need.  
  
So, folks, look, this is not beyond our capacity.  We just have to
listen.  We got to tell people what we want to do and hope that they’ve
figured out that — what is going on with the last guy if it gets
repeated.  Because if he gets elected, he’s publicly stated he’d repeal
— try to repeal every single thing we’ve done so far — 15 million new
jobs, 800,000 manufacturing jobs, they go on and on.   
  
But people still need help.  They still need help, those pe- — folks
sitting at the kitchen table.  They still need some help on the
day-to-day things.  And we’re going to work on those as well.  
  
But any rate, I’m taking too much of your time.  You’re very gracious. 
Thank you all very much for being here.   
  
And as my mother would say, God bless you all.  Thank you.  And God
protect our troops.  Thank you.

2:22 P.M. EDT
