---
date: '2024-03-15'
modified_time: 2024-03-15 17:54:12-04:00
published_time: 2024-03-15 17:54:11-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/03/15/remarks-by-president-biden-and-taoiseach-leo-varadkar-of-ireland-before-bilateral-meeting-2/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden and Taoiseach Leo Varadkar of Ireland Before Bilateral\_\
  Meeting"
---
 
Oval Office

10:52 A.M. EDT

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Well, Taoiseach, welcome back to the Oval Office. 
It’s good to have you back.  And — and I want to thank you again for the
reception I had last — when I was last in Ireland.  As a matter of fact,
my family wasn’t sure we wanted to come home.  It was so nice. 

Look, it’s great to see you again, a great chance to return some of the
hospitality that you provided me when I was in Ireland last.  And I know
there are all kinds of Irish — old Irish sayings, but my Grandfather
Finnegan used to say, “May the hinge of our friendship never go rusty.” 
He had all these sayings, you know.  The Irish in America sometimes
think they’re more Irish than the Irish.

But — and I don’t think we’re going to let it go rusty.  We’re vital to
each other’s economies.  We’re good friends.  And we’re — and today
celebrates 100 years —

TAOISEACH VARADKAR:  That’s right.

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  — 100 years of diplomatic relations between Ireland
and America.  And as far as that friendship goes, it keeps increasing
and not diminishing, and I would argue it’s stronger than ever. 

Together, we’re deepening our economic partnership.  There are 300,000 —
helped create 300,000 jobs across both our nations. 

And we’re working together to increase humanitarian assistance in Gaza. 
And we both know that a whole lot more has to be done. 

And we’re standing together to support Ukraine in the face of Putin’s
onslaught, the savagery with which he’s attacking Ukrainians.  And I
want to thank you, Leo, for Ireland’s unwavering assistance to Ukraine,
including millions of vital humanitarian aid that you provide — millions
of dollars. 

And I’m urging our Congress to do its part to get back in the game of —
we were able to find another $300 million, but we — we have a $6 billion
package — a $60 billion package.  And we’re really working — so, when
we’re up in the Hill, I’d ask you to lobby them for me. 

TAOISEACH VARADKAR:  I will.

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  That was a joke, guys.  (Laughter.)  That was a joke.

But I’m urging them to — Congress to pass the bipartisan legislation now
that includes a significant amount of humanitarian aid, including to
Ukraine and Gaza. 

And as I said in Belfast last year, we remain committed to protecting
the peace and progress in Northern Ireland since the Belfast Good Friday
Agreement.  And like you, I’m glad to see Northern Ireland’s Executive
and Assembly are up and running.  And I think that’s, from my
perspective, a very positive step forward. 

So, Leo, thank you, again, for being here.  And as we begin the next
century of our partnership and friendship, I’ve never been more
optimistic because, you know, united by history, heritage, and hope, I
think there’s not a damn thing we can’t do together.  So, welcome. 

TAOISEACH VARADKAR:  Thank you.  Thank you so much. 

Well, thank you very much, Mr. President.  And thanks for giving us so
much time over these next few days.  And very keen to talk about four —
four main things while — while we’re together. 

Since we last met, back in New York briefly in September at the U.N.,
and since your visits to Ireland last year, it’s really good to see the
institutions in Northern Ireland up and running.  It just makes such a
difference to have the Good Friday Agreement properly functioning. 

So, the — as you know, the Deputy First Minister and First Minister are
here.  The Executive and Assembly are operating.  We’ll have our North
South Ministerial Council meeting next month and the British-Irish
Council in June.  So, really good to see the promise of that agreement —
that Good Friday Agreement being fulfilled again, which is such — such a
positive change since the last time we met. 

As you mentioned, we’ve — celebrating 100 years of diplomatic
relations.  The U.S is one of the first countries to recognize Irish
independence.  And it’s become such a strong relationship since then. 

I’m very keen to talk about that a bit more, and also the strength of
our economic relationship now, which increasingly goes — goes both
ways.  There’s now 100,000 Americans working in firms that are
Irish-owned here in — here in the U.S.  And we’re one of the top 10
investors in the U.S. now.  So, great to be able to repay some of that
interest.

Obviously, keen to talk about the situation in — in Gaza as well.  You
know, my — my view that we need to have a ceasefire as soon as possible
to get food and medicine in —

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  And I agree.

TAOISEACH VARADKAR:  — to get the hostages out.  And we need to talk
about how we can make that happen and move towards a two-state solution,
which I think is the only — the only way we’ll have lasting peace and
security. 

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  I agree.

TAOISEACH VARADKAR:  And then, on Ukraine — just really want to thank
you and America for your leadership on Ukraine.  We’re very worried
about the situation there.  And we don’t think that if Putin is
successful in Ukraine he’ll stop there.  And we really need your
continued support and leadership on Ukraine and look forward to speaking
to the congressional leaders about that as well later on. 

And we’ll have a European Council meeting next week of the — of the 27
EU prime ministers, so they’re going to be very keen to know what — what
I — what I learned here in Washington. 

And that’s a — that’s a fight we’ve got to win.

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Well, you can tell them that the President of the
United States is strongly committed to making sure we provide that aid.

Well, thank you very much.  We’ll get a chance to bring in our
delegations. 

And thank you all for being here, folks. 

Q    Do you have any comment, sir, on Senator Schumer’s speech on Israel
yesterday?

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Senator Schumer contacted my staff — my senior staff —
he was going to make that speech.  And he — I’m not going to exa- —
elaborate on the speech.  He made a good speech, and I think he
expressed a serious concern shared not only by him but by many
Americans.

Q    Mr. President, can there be a ceasefire before the end of Ramadan? 
Mr. President, can there be a ceasefire before the end of Ramadan?

(Cross-talk.)

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  (Inaudible.)

(Cross-talk.)

Q    Will you go back to Ireland?

THE PRESIDENT:  I always want to — I always want to go back to Ireland.

10:59 A.M. EDT
