---
date: '2024-03-03'
modified_time: 2024-03-03 19:23:40-05:00
published_time: 2024-03-03 19:23:39-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/03/03/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-commemorating-the-59th-anniversary-of-bloody-sunday-selma-al/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris Commemorating the 59th Anniversary of Bloody\
  \ Sunday | Selma,\_AL"
---
 
Edmund Pettus Bridge  
Selma, Alabama 

2:50 P.M. EST  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Can we give it up for Azali?  (Applause.)  Oh,
indeed, our hopes and dreams are alive and well.  
  
Good afternoon, everyone.  Good afternoon.  Please have a seat.  
  
I’ll tell you, when I listen to Azali, I know the future of our country
is bright.  
  
So, it is so good to be back in Selma, and I want to say on behalf of
the Second Gentleman and me, it is a privilege to be with so many
extraordinary leaders — members of Congress, members of our
administration, dedicated activists, and dear friends.  
  
So, before I begin today, I must address the humanitarian crisis in
Gaza.  (Applause.)  What we are seeing every day in Gaza is
devastating.  We have seen reports of families eating leaves or animal
feed, women giving birth to malnourished babies with little or no
medical care, and children dying from malnutrition and dehydration.  
  
As I have said many times, too many innocent Palestinians have been
killed.  And just a few days ago, we saw hungry, desperate people
approach aid trucks, simply trying to secure food for their families
after weeks of nearly no aid reaching Northern Gaza.  And they were met
with gunfire and chaos.  
  
Our hearts break for the victims of that horrific tragedy and for all
the innocent people in Gaza who are suffering from what is clearly a
humanitarian catastrophe.  (Applause.)  
  
People in Gaza are starving.  The conditions are inhumane.  And our
common humanity compels us to act.  
  
As President Joe Biden said on Friday, the United States is committed to
urgently get more lifesaving assistance to innocent Palestinians in
need.

Yesterday, the Department of Defense carried out its first airdrop of
humanitarian assistance, and the United States will continue these
airdrops.  And we will work on a new route by sea to deliver aid.  
  
And the Israeli government must do more to significantly increase the
flow of aid.  (Applause.)  No excuses.  They must open new border
crossings.  They must not impose any unnecessary restrictions on the
delivery of aid.  They must ensure humanitarian personnel, sites, and
convoys are not targeted.  And they must work to restore basic services
and promote order in Gaza so more food, water, and fuel can reach those
in need.  
  
As I have said repeatedly since October 7th, Israel has a right to
defend itself.  And President Joe Biden and I are unwavering in our
commitment to Israel’s security.   
  
Hamas cannot control Gaza, and the threat Hamas poses to the people of
Israel must be eliminated.  Hamas is a brutal terrorist organization
that has vowed to repeat October 7th again and again until Israel is
annihilated.  
  
Hamas has shown no regard for innocent life, including for the people of
Gaza, who have suffered under its rule for almost two decades.  And
Hamas still holds dozens of hostages, for nearly 150 days now — innocent
men and women, including American citizens, who were brutally taken from
their homes and from a concert.  
  
I will repeat: The threat of — Hamas poses to the people of Israel must
be eliminated.  And given the immense scale of suffering in Gaza, there
must be an immediate ceasefire — (applause) — for at least the next six
weeks, which is what is currently on the table.  
  
This will get the hostages out and get a significant amount of aid in. 
This would allow us to build something more enduring to ensure Israel is
more secure and to respect the right of the Palestinian people to
dignity, freedom, and self-determination.  (Applause.)  
  
Hamas claims it wants a ceasefire.  Well, there is a deal on the table. 
And as we have said, Hamas needs to agree to that deal.  
  
Let’s get a ceasefire.  Let’s reunite the hostages with their families. 
And let’s provide immediate relief to the people of Gaza.  (Applause.)  
  
I will now address the occasion for our gathering today on this hallowed
ground on the foot of the Edmund Pettus Bridge, where, 59 years ago, on
a cold Sunday morning, 600 brave souls set out from Selma.  
  
Hand in hand, shoulder to shoulder, they marched for the freedoms that
were theirs by birth and theirs by right: the freedom to vote, the
freedom to live without fear of violence or intimidation, the freedom to
be full and equal members of our nation.  
  
They marched peacefully.  They knew violence against them was
inevitable.  They knew they would be surrounded by troopers with
nightsticks.  They knew they might be trampled by horses.  Even so, they
marched forward.  (Applause.)  
  
But they were forced to retreat.  And yet, they would not be deterred,
defeated, or denied.  And they returned to this bridge while many were
still bound in bandages because they knew what was on the other side: a
promise of a future that was more equal, more just, and more free.   
  
And yes, they crossed this bridge.  And in so doing, they also built a
bridge.  They brought together white Americans, Black Americans, all
sorts of Americans, and ministers and rabbis, and members of L- — SCLC
and SNCC, and folks of all ages and backgrounds.  (Applause.)  
  
And less than six months later, the Voting Rights Act of <s>1964</s>
\[1965\] was signed into law.  The story of Selma — a story of our
nation.  (Applause.)  
  
Freedom is fundamental to the promise of America.  Freedom is not to be
given.  It is not to be bestowed.  It is ours by right.  (Applause.)  
  
And the power behind the promise of freedom has always been in the faith
of her people and our willingness to fight for freedom, be it on the
fields of Gettysburg, in the schools of Little Rock, on the streets of
Ferguson, and on this bridge right here in Selma.  (Applause.)  
  
And today, we know our fight for freedom is not over because, in this
moment, we are witnessing a full-on attack on hard-fought, hard-won
freedoms, starting with the freedom that unlocks all others: the freedom
to vote.  The sacred freedom to vote.  
  
Today, in states across our nation, extremists pass laws to ban drop
boxes, limit early voting, and restrict absentee ballots.  In Georgia,
extremists passed a law to even make it illegal to give people food and
water for standing in line to exercise their civic duty and right to
vote.  
  
I ask the friends here: Rev, whatever happened to “love thy neighbor”? 
(Applause.)  The hypocrisy abounds.   
  
And do notice: The governor of Georgia signed that law on the 56th
anniversary of this very march.   
  
Across our nation, extremists attack the integrity of free and fair
elections, causing a rise of threats and violence against poll
workers.   
  
In the face of these assaults on the freedom to vote and in honor of all
those who crossed this bridge, President Biden and I will continue to
demand that the United States Congress pass the Freedom to Vote Act and
the John Lewis Voting Rights Advancement Act.  (Applause.)  The fight
for freedom.   
  
Today, in states across our nation, extremists propose and pass laws
that attack the freedom of a woman to make decisions about her own body
— laws that would make no exception even for rape and incest.   
  
Here in Alabama, they attack the freedom to use IVF treatment.  Women
and couples denied the ability to fulfill their dream of having a
child.   
  
And consider the irony.  On the one hand, these extremists tell women
they do not have the freedom to end an unwanted pregnancy.  And on the
other hand, these extremists tell women they do not have the freedom to
start a family.   
  
Let us agree: One does not have to abandon their faith or deeply held
beliefs to agree the government should not be telling her what to do
with her body.  (Applause.)   
  
The fight for freedom — that every person in our nation has a right to
be free from the horror of gun violence.  (Applause.)  And yet, today,
these extremists stand by and refuse to pass reasonable gun safety laws
to keep our children and places of worship safe.   
  
Freedom — that every person in our nation has a right to be free to love
who they love openly and with pride.  (Applause.)  And yet, just this
past year, extremists have passed or proposed hundreds of laws targeting
LGBTQ people.   
  
Freedom — that every person in our nation has the freedom to learn and
acknowledge our country’s true and full history.  (Applause.)  And yet,
today, extremists pass book bans — book bans, in this year of our Lord
2024 — while they also try to erase, overlook, and rewrite the ugly
parts of our past.   
  
Fundamental freedoms under assault.  The freedom to vote.  The freedom
from fear, violence, and harm.  The freedom to learn.  The freedom to
control one’s own body.  And the freedom to just simply be.   
  
And understand the profound impact these attacks have on the next
generation of our leaders.  Just last fall, 15,000 young leaders joined
me during my “Fight for Our Freedoms” college tour.  And, for them,
these attacks on freedom are a lived experience.   
  
It is their lived experience that extremist leaders have intentionally
closed polling places near college campuses and restricted the use of
student IDs to vote, that it is Black voters and student voters who are
most targeted by anti-voter laws.  (Applause.)  
  
A lived experience that during the height of their reproductive years,
the highest court in our land — the court of Thurgood and RBG — took a
constitutional right that had been recognized from the people of
America, from the women of America so that, now, this generation has
fewer rights than their mothers and grandmothers. 

Their lived experience that from kindergarten to 12th grade, they have
consistently had to endure active-shooter drills while extremists refuse
to pass universal background checks, red flag laws, and an assault
weapons ban.  (Applause.)  
  
Our young leaders — well, they are cleareyed about what’s at stake.  And
in the spirit of a young John Lewis, I know they too will not be
deterred, they will not be defeated, and they will not be denied. 

So, Selma, the challenges we currently face are not unlike the
challenges faced by those 600 brave souls 59 years ago.  And in this
moment, we too, then, are confronted with a fundamental question: What
kind of country do we want to live in?   
  
Do we want to live in a country of freedom, liberty, and justice — or a
country of injustice, hate, and fear?  
  
We each have the power to answer that question with our voice, with our
feet, and with our vote.   
  
I’ll close by sharing with you: In my West Wing office in the White
House — (applause) — yeah, that’s where I work — (applause) — I hung a
piece of artwork that is the first thing I see when I walk into my
office in the morning.  It’s a large framed photograph taken on Bloody
Sunday depicting an injured Amelia Boynton receiving care at the foot of
this very bridge.  And, for me, it is a daily reminder of the struggle,
of the sacrifice, and of how much we owe to those who gave so much
before us.   
  
History is a relay race.  Generations before us carried the baton.  And
now, they have passed it to us.   
  
So, let us continue to organize.  Let us continue to fight.  And let’s
us make some good trouble along the way.  (Applause.)    
  
God bless you.  And God bless the United States of America.  Thank you
all.  (Applause.)  
  
                               END                 3:07 P.M. EST
