---
date: '2024-03-14'
published_time: 2024-03-14 12:03:17-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/03/14/remarks-by-president-biden-at-a-campaign-event-milwaukee-wi-march-13-2024/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at a Campaign Event | Milwaukee, WI (March 13,\_\
  2024)"
---
 
Wisconsin Coordinated Campaign Headquarters  
Milwaukee, Wisconsin  
(March 13, 2024)

4:19 P.M. CDT

  
THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you, folks.  (Applause.)  Well, it’s good to be
here with the power in the state.  Gwen Moore runs my whole life, runs
everything.  (Laughter.)  And your county executive and your mayor.  You
got a hell of a crew.  
  
And I tell you — but thank you so much.  You know, the thing about this
campaign and particularly here in — in Mil- — in Milwaukee specifically,
but Wisconsin generally and several other states, it’s going to get down
to knocking on doors, the old-fashioned way.  No, it really is.  And it
gets down to just making contact with people.  
  
Secondly, you opened up — you got 44 headquarters in this state — 44. 
And this is going to be the next President one of these days.  (Laughter
and applause.)  
  
(The President addresses a child in the audience.)  When you become
president and they say, “Joe Biden is out in the waiting room,” promise
me you won’t say, “Joe who?”  (Laughter and applause.)  Okay?

Folks, look, we’ve got a lot to do.  And there’s an awful lot at stake
in this campaign.  I need not tell you all.  You all understand it
fully.  
  
One of the things that is — that I like about this campaign,
particularly here in this state, is — by the way, this is the first time
headquarters has been here in Milwaukee.  Well, there’s a reason for
that.  (Applause.)  There’s a reason for that.  Because if it wasn’t,
I’d be afraid of going back with Gwen.  You know — (laughter).  
  
But all kidding aside, look, this is about ordinary people.  I grew up
in a neighborhood that was not poor but middle class — technically,
lower-middle class — you know, a three-bedroom house with four kids and
a grandpop living with us.  
  
And, you know, wh- — it was decent, but, you know, there wasn’t anything
left over at the end of the month.  And so, what I started to do was —
my dad used to say — that trickle-down economic program had been going
on for years, not a whole hell of a lot trickled down on my dad’s
kitchen table.  (Laughter.)   
  
And so, we decided to make a completely different approach to how we
were going to govern the country.  And one of those was to make sure
that we invested in people, we built them from the middle out and the
bottom up.  When that occurs, the wealthy still do very well.  But it’s
about time they start paying their fair share of taxes.  (Applause.)  
  
And today, I just came from announcing a $36 million project to
reconnect this city in a way that it should never have been separated in
the first place.  
  
The reason I know that, my city — the city of Wilmington, Delaware,
where I grew up — is a situation where we have I-95, not I- — what’s
that — I-50 —  
  
AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Ninety-four.  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  –50 — -94 here.  
  
And I’m President of the United States; I’m in charge of this program. 
They haven’t funded Delaware yet.  I’m like what the hell’s going on
here?  (Laughter.)

But we have, you know, over $3 billion to do this across the country. 
It’s about bringing people together.

You know, we’ve — I have a very different view than — as you know, than
the opposition here, the guys I’m running against.  I don’t think we’re
a dying nation; I think we’re a growing nation.  I don’t think we’re
behind.  No, I really mean it.  (Applause.)

And I’ve been doing it a long time.  But, you know, it’s never — I’ve
never been more optimistic about America’s prospects — never, never,
never. 

And so, but they all — it’s — and I know it sounds like hyperbole, but
it’s all in your hands and you — folks like you all across the country,
because this is how I won the first time I ever ran, and this is how
we’re going to win again.

A lot of you helped me in 2020, and we made sure he was a loser — he is
a loser.  (Laughter.)  And we’re going to make sure that happens again,
right?  (Applause.)

And, by the way, we are — we are a country of immigrants.  We’re — they
are not “vermin.”  (Applause.)  And, look, you know, the fact of the
matter is, all of us are immigrants — every one of us except the Native
Americans here.  And the fact of the matter is that we — it’s what built
this country. 

That’s why we’re the most unique country in the world, the most powerful
nation in the world, the most connected nation in the world.  And we’ve
got to take advantage of it, not walk away from it. 

Any rate.  A lot more to talk about, but I want to — just came to say
thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you.  (Applause.)

And, by the way, history is watching.  History is watching.  This young
man is going to be reading about what we do and don’t do.  Now, I don’t
mean me personally — what we do as a generation now.  We have a chance
to really turn this country in the right direction, move in directions
that are —

You know, we have the most vibrant economy in the world.  We got a lot
more to do — a lot more to do.  We’re investing in healthcare.  We’re
investing in all the things that matter, all the things that your
senator from this state, Johnson, says if back to — if we win, he’s
going to try to eliminate — eliminate.

So, we ju- — this is really important — really important, not because of
me but because of all of you and all we can do.

So, “No one should be jailed…”  By the way, I’m taking care of that.  No
one is going to be jailed.  (Laughter.)  No one should be jailed for
just using and possessing marijuana and it staying on their record. 
(Applause.)

And, by the way — and, by the way, the fact of the matter is that stays
on their record all — the whole time just for smoking marijuana.  Now,
if you’re out selling it, if you’re out growing, it’s a different deal. 
But if you’re just using, it should be wiped off your record.  Because
you have that on your record, you have to — “Have you ever been arrested
or do you have a felony on your record?”  You have to put yes.

Not anymore.  Not anymore.

Anyway, we got to do everything from gun violence to deal with choice. 
You know, our freedoms are at stake.  They really are at stake — not a
joke — the right to choose, the right to be able to determine whether
you’re going to get to vote, how we vote.

There’s so much more we can do.  But I’m talking too much.  I just want
to talk to you each individually.

Thank you all very, very much.  (Applause.)

4:26 P.M. CDT
