---
date: '2024-03-20'
published_time: 2024-03-20 17:49:59-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/03/20/remarks-by-apnsa-jake-sullivan-and-head-of-the-office-of-the-president-of-ukraine-andriy-yermak-in-press-conference-kyiv-ukraine/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by APNSA Jake Sullivan and Head of the Office of the President of\
  \ Ukraine Andriy Yermak in Press Conference | Kyiv,\_Ukraine"
---
 
National Security Council  
Kyiv, Ukraine

MR. YERMAK: (Speaks Ukrainian.) (No translation provided.)

MR. SULLIVAN: Well, thank you, Andriy. Thank you for your hospitality.
Thank you for your partnership as we’ve worked through both the
challenges and opportunities that have come before us over the course of
these difficult past two years while Ukraine has been fighting so
bravely against the imperial onslaught of the Russians.

I was here a year ago last month with President Biden on his historic
visit to Kyiv one year after Russia’s full-blown invasion of Ukraine.

President Biden came here with a message of support for the Ukrainian
people and also a message to the world in which he said that despite all
of the predictions and despite all of the challenges posed by the brutal
aggressor, Russia, Kyiv still stood, Ukraine still stood proud and free.

And now, one year later, two years after the beginning of this vicious
assault on your sovereignty and territorial integrity, Kyiv still stands
and Ukraine still stands. And it stands because of the bravery and the
courage, the ingenuity and the tenacity of the Ukrainian people. And we
are in awe of that in the United States.

And I’m here today to say: We believe in you. We believe you will
prevail. We believe that you will build a brighter future for the
Ukrainian people, a stronger democracy, a resilient, secure country that
can repel future aggression. And we’re going to be your partner in that
every step of the way.

I’m also here to say that you should believe in the United States. We
have stood by your side since this war began. We have provided enormous
support, and we will continue to do so every day in every way we know
how.

Now, I know there are questions here because of the back and forth in
our Congress and the months that have gone by without the supplemental
bill coming through, the package of aid that you rightly deserve and
that President Biden is fighting for every day — the $60 billion that
the Senate has passed on a bipartisan basis and now we’re working with
the House to pass.

But from our perspective, we are confident we will get this done. We
will get this aid to Ukraine. And in the meantime, we’re not just
waiting.

As Andriy mentioned, just last week we announced from the White House
podium a package of $300 million of ammunition, air defense, and other
critical supplies that are needed right now on the front lines, and we
are rushing those supplies to you as we speak.

So we are going to do everything in our power to continue to support you
and your efforts as you go forward.

And we will work with the rest of the world as well, a coalition of more
than 50 nations standing strong in support of Ukraine, as you deal with
this foe that continues to relentlessly assault you day in, day out.

And together we will work until Ukraine has prevailed.

And again, thank you for your hospitality, and I look forward to hearing
your questions.

Q (Speaks Ukrainian.) (No translation provided.)

MR. YERMAK: (Speaks Ukrainian.) (No translation provided.)

Q (Speaks Ukrainian.) (No translation provided.)

MR. SULLIVAN: Well, I’ve stood at the White House podium and I’ve stood
at other podiums and said Ukraine should win. I said here, today,
Ukraine should prevail.

And what does that mean? That means that Ukraine emerges from this war
sovereign, independent, and free, able to deter future aggression with a
strong, vibrant democracy; with deep democratic institutions; with an
economy that’s growing, not just in traditional industries but in high
technology and the areas where you are innovating. Even in the face of
Russian attacks, you are innovating.

That’s what winning means.

And from our perspective, we are going to work every day to make that
happen.

Now, there’s a critical military dimension to that, meaning providing
the necessary support, supplies, and weapons for Ukraine’s brave
soldiers to be able to effectively do what they need to do on the
battlefield.

There is the intelligence cooperation we have. There is the economic
cooperation we have. There is the diplomacy that we do together to work
on democratic reforms and economic reforms.

So this is a comprehensive, across-the-board, all-hands-on-deck effort
for the U.S. government, directed by our President as a key priority of
the United States to see Ukraine not just win, but succeed — succeed
over the long term and thrive.

And that is something every Ukrainian deserves, but it’s also profoundly
in the national security interest of the United States.

Q Thank you so much. My name is Monica. Thank you, Mr. Sullivan. I have
a question for you.

First of all, is it true that the administration has authorized the
long-range ATACMS missiles to Ukraine? And if so, when are they going to
arrive?

And the second one: What does Russia’s loss look like for the U.S.
administration?

MR. SULLIVAN: Well, I’ll take your second question first.

We believe that Russia has already failed in this war. What did Russia
set out to do? Wipe Ukraine off the map. Wipe the very idea of being
Ukrainian from history. It has already failed at that. It failed in its
assault on your capital because Ukrainians stood up and defended the
capital. It failed to crush the democratically elected government of
Ukraine. It failed to crush the spirit of the Ukrainian people.

And so, the designs set out by Putin and Russia at the start of this war
have not been fulfilled and will never be fulfilled.

But that’s not enough. In the end, we need to see a circumstance in
which Ukraine no longer suffers from the threat and the onslaught of the
Russian military and where it can stand not just free and independent,
but safe and secure as well. That’s what we’re going to work towards.

With respect to ATACMS, I’m going to disappoint you by saying I have
nothing to announce here publicly today on that issue. When we do have
something to share, we will be sure to share it.

But I will say that we have had very constructive discussions about our
military support and the capabilities that are necessary to ensure that
support is as effective as it could possibly be.

Q Thank you.

Q (Speaks Ukrainian.) (No translation provided.)

MR. YERMAK: (Speaks Ukrainian.) (No translation provided.)

MR. SULLIVAN: As I said in my opening comments, I’m confident that we
will achieve plan A. We will get a strong bipartisan vote in the House
for an assistance package for Ukraine. And we will get that money out
the door as we should. So I don’t think we need to speak today about
plan B.

The timing has already taken too long. And I know that, and you know
that. I’m not going to make predictions about exactly when this will get
done, but we are working to get it done as soon as possible. And
President Biden is working this on a daily basis to try to deliver this
package to the House. But I cannot make specific prediction today.

Q Thank you. I’m Siobhán O’Grady from the Washington Post. Mr. Sullivan
and Mr. Yermak, can you both respond to more specifically about the
nature of your relationship and communication, and how often you speak
each day?

And, Mr. Yermak, can you respond to various claims that you play an
outsized role in the presidential office (inaudible) U.S. and foreign
officials across all departments, sometimes even making ambassadors
irrelevant?

MR. SULLIVAN: Well, as Andriy said, we speak quite frequently. I
couldn’t quantify precisely the number of times we speak in a given
week. But we are checking in on a very regular basis by phone. We see
each other in person at summits, at other events or visits to
Washington, my visits to Kyiv.

And, really, it’s about getting down to brass tacks, because as Andriy
said, there are a lot of very specific things that we need to work
through in this partnership: the delivery of security assistance; where
we are working together on economic cooperation and economic reforms;
how we are approaching strategic issues and diplomatic issues, including
what he was discussing earlier with respect to the diplomacy with the
Global South.

This is a very high priority for President Biden and the United States
that we do our part to be a good partner to Ukraine and to rally the
world in support of Ukraine. And that requires a lot of hands-on,
day-to-day management across our government and, frankly, across
multiple different axes between the U.S. and Ukrainian governments.

Ambassador Brink is here in the front row. She plays a critical role in
managing the U.S.-Ukraine relationship. Our foreign ministers, our
defense ministers, our presidents are all engaged on a regular basis as
well.

But Andriy and I do have responsibility across the whole suite of these
issues — military, diplomatic, economic, strategic, tactical. So it’s
only natural that we would be in very regular communication, which we
are and have been since even before the war began.

MR. YERMAK: (Speaks Ukrainian.) (No translation provided.)

Q (Speaks Ukrainian.) (No translation provided.)

MR. SULLIVAN: Well, first, I believe that a strong majority of both
Democratic and Republican members of Congress believe that already,
actually.

And you saw that in the vote in the Senate — 70 senators voting in favor
of that package. And when you do the vote count in the House, a strong
bipartisan majority support it.

So there is a wide understanding in the United States that Ukraine
matters, that the security and future of Ukraine matters to the security
and future of the United States of America, and that we want to help a
friend and a partner, but we also want to help ourselves in helping you.

Now, of course, there are politics and procedures and obstacles to
getting this done, and I can understand how frustrating that is as you
fight this war and seek further assistance.

But I want you to know that among members of Congress and among the
American people, there continues to be a deep and strong reservoir of
support for what you are doing, why it matters for your security and why
it matters for our security. We’re going to continue making that case.

And you have no better advocates than the ordinary Ukrainian people who
are out there every day showing the world why it matters, and your
president and your government who advocate and fight on your behalf, who
come to us and work in partnership to make sure we’re delivering on our
part.

And so, I can’t ask you to do anything more than you’ve already been
doing. Now it’s our job to deliver for you, and that’s what we intend to
do.

MR. YERMAK: (Speaks Ukrainian.) (No translation provided.)

END
