---
date: '2024-03-12'
published_time: 2024-03-12 14:59:32-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/03/12/remarks-by-national-economic-advisor-lael-brainard-on-president-bidens-bold-plan-for-housing/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by National Economic Advisor Lael Brainard on President\_Biden\u2019\
  s Bold Plan for\_Housing"
---
 
*At The Urban Institute  
As Prepared for Delivery*

It is a pleasure to join you at the Urban Institute, which has been at
the forefront of research on housing for decades. 

During the [State of the Union
Address](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/03/08/remarks-by-president-biden-in-state-of-the-union-address-3/),
President Biden proposed the boldest housing plan in a generation – a
plan that would lower housing costs for renters and homebuyers and
expand access to quality, affordable housing.  The President called on
Congress to support the construction of 2 million additional homes,
lower costs for renters, and unlock the housing market for first time
homebuyers and families seeking to trade up or downsize. And he
announced new administrative actions to lower closing costs and make
rental markets fairer. The President’s Fiscal Year 2025
[budget](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/omb/budget/) included a historic
$185 billion investment in housing, in mandatory funding, to give
working families a fair shot, while reducing the deficit by asking the
wealthy to pay their fair share.

**The Challenge of Housing Affordability**

In communities across the country, too many Americans face high housing
costs. It is important to understand how today’s housing challenges came
to pass.

America used to build a lot more housing, and housing costs were lower
as a result. For much of the four decades preceding the Global Financial
Crisis (GFC), housing construction was high, housing costs and wages
grew at similar rates, and fewer families faced housing cost burdens
that strained their budgets. But residential construction collapsed
during the GFC, with
[completions](https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series/COMPUTSA) falling from
a peak of 2 million units in 2006 to just 585,000 in 2011. And housing
construction never fully recovered after that.

Over the same decade, the most populous generation in American history
was aging into the housing market. With demand outstripping supply,
construction over that decade skewed to higher value units rather than
the starter homes needed for first-time homebuyers and workforce
housing. For example, just [5
percent](https://www.jchs.harvard.edu/blog/housing-markets-leaving-lowest-income-households-behind)
of all newly completed units in 2022 had asking rents that were
affordable to a household with a median renter income.

The combination of a missing decade of homebuilding after the GFC and
historically high demand led to unsustainable growth in rental and
for-sale home prices that prevented many Americans from building savings
and wealth. On top of that, the pandemic changed patterns of demand, in
effect exporting the housing crisis from the coasts and large urban
centers to the rest of the country.

We are beginning to dig ourselves out of this supply shortfall. Actions
taken by the Biden-Harris Administration to enable more builders to get
access to federal financing have contributed to a record high [1.7
million units under
construction](https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series/UNDCONTSA) right now.
But the chronic underbuilding of housing over the past decade and a half
means that we must build even more housing to meet demand and lower
housing costs.

That is why President Biden laid out an ambitious set of budget
proposals that would build and preserve [2 million additional
homes](https://www.novoco.com/notes-from-novogradac/biden-harris-administrations-proposed-2025-budget-to-include-several-housing-proposals-that-combined-could-finance-as-many-as-2-million-affordable-homes)
over the next decade. But we also need to take action to unlock the
housing market now, which is why the President is proposing bold actions
to help homebuyers and renters in the near-term.

**Unlocking the Housing Market**

In today’s market, too many households that want to buy their first home
are locked-out by high costs, while many homeowners looking to
right-size their housing needs are locked-in because the rate they’d get
on a new mortgage is higher than the rate on their current mortgage.

To expand access for would be homebuyers that are locked out of the
market, the President called on Congress to pass a mortgage relief
credit that would provide first-time homebuyers with up to $10,000. 
This amounts to around $400 per month for two years– the equivalent of
reducing the mortgage rate by 1.5 percentage points for two years on the
median home. The mortgage relief credit would help more than 3.5 million
middle-class families purchase their first home over the next two years.
These tax credits would serve as a bridge, as rates are projected to
continue to fall with inflation and as our supply investments come
online. The President’s Budget also includes a first generation down
payment assistance program, which would provide households without
intergenerational wealth with $25,000 on average to afford their down
payment and achieve homeownership.

The President’s proposal would couple a buyers’ tax credit with a
sellers’ tax credit to unlock the existing inventory of starter homes.
Approximately 90% of homeowners with mortgages have a rate below 6%,
prompting many homeowners who would like to move to stay put. To unlock
starter home inventory and allow middle-class families to move up the
housing ladder and empty nesters to right size, the President is calling
on Congress to provide a one-year tax credit of up to $10,000 to
middle-class families who sell their starter home to another
owner-occupant. The sellers mortgage relief credit is estimated to help
nearly 3 million families, and provide a much-needed boost to the
inventory at the bottom of the market, where inventory has been most
limited and home price appreciation has been most acute.

We are not waiting for Congress to act. The President last week
announced a new effort to lower closing costs for new home purchases and
for refinancing. The Federal Housing Finance Agency has
[approved](https://www.fhfa.gov/Media/PublicAffairs/Pages/Director-Sandra-Thompson-Statement-on-Title-Acceptance-Pilot.aspx)
a pilot program to save households an average of $750 by no longer
requiring them to purchase lender’s title insurance when they are
refinancing their mortgage. Reducing closing costs on refinancing will
enable more households to refinance as rates continue to fall, unlocking
substantial savings for homeowners over the duration of their mortgage.
In addition, the [Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau](https://www.consumerfinance.gov/about-us/blog/junk-fees-are-driving-up-housing-costs-the-cfpb-wants-to-hear-from-you/)
will pursue rulemaking and guidance to increase competition on the
closing costs imposed by lenders, which can add thousands of dollars in
closing costs for homebuyers.

**Promoting a Fair and Affordable Rental Market**

As part of our Blueprint for a Renters Bill of Rights, we are also
taking action now to promote a fair and affordable rental market –
including for the lowest-income households whose incomes are not
sufficient to afford market rents.

The Administration has already secured rental assistance for [over
100,000 additional low-income
households](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/03/07/fact-sheet-president-biden-announces-plan-to-lower-housing-costs-for-working-families/)
through the Housing Choice Voucher program – guaranteeing them
affordable rents. The President’s Budget proposes expanding rental
assistance to hundreds of thousands of additional households. And the
Administration recently
[proposed](https://www.regulations.gov/document/HUD-2024-0003-0001) to
cap annual rent increases in Low Income Housing Tax Credit units to
between 5 and 10 percent annually, which, if finalized, would prevent
unmanageably large single-year rent increases for 2 million households.

We are taking actions to improve fairness and competition in the rental
market more broadly. Last fall, the FTC
[proposed](https://www.ftc.gov/news-events/news/press-releases/2023/10/ftc-proposes-rule-ban-junk-fees)
a rule banning misleading and hidden fees across the economy, including
in housing rental agreements, and is currently working to finalize that
rule. We are going after rental junk fees, from rental application fees
to surprise “convenience fees.” Many renters report fees for payment by
mail, on-line, and in-person.  One renter
[reported](https://www.nclc.org/wp-content/uploads/2023/03/JunkFees-Rpt.pdf)
that the true cost for a unit listed for $1,100 in South Carolina could
be as high as $1,800 once all fees are taken into account.

And we are working to ensure that renter protections evolve with
changing market dynamics among housing providers. The President earlier
this month established an Unfair Pricing Strike Force to leverage
investigative and enforcement authorities to address unfair and
predatory practices across the economy, including in the housing market.
For example, in recent filings in cases against multiple property
management companies, the Department of Justice and the Federal Trade
Commission have made clear that inflated rents caused by algorithmic use
of sensitive nonpublic pricing and supply information violate antitrust
laws.

**“Build, Build, Build.”**

Long-term, durable action is required to build our way out of the
decades long housing supply shortfall. As the President put it
yesterday, “[The bottom line is we have to build, build,
build](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/03/11/remarks-by-president-biden-at-the-national-league-of-cities-congressional-city-conference-2/).”
The President’s plan, if passed by Congress, would produce or preserve
over [2 million additional
homes](https://www.novoco.com/notes-from-novogradac/biden-harris-administrations-proposed-2025-budget-to-include-several-housing-proposals-that-combined-could-finance-as-many-as-2-million-affordable-homes)
– helping to close the housing supply shortfall and improve housing
affordability for American families.

There is a
[gap](https://ternercenter.berkeley.edu/research-and-policy/making-it-pencil-2023/)
between how much it costs to build new housing and how much households
on the lower end of the income spectrum can afford to pay—which is why
tax credits have been a critical support for private construction in the
affordable housing market for nearly four decades. The centerpiece of
the President’s Plan is an expansion of the Low Income Housing Tax
Credit (LIHTC) that would produce or preserve 1.2 million affordable
units over the next decade. The President’s plan represents the largest
increase in LIHTC resources since 2000, which will help to address the
shortage of affordable housing.LIHTC accounts for nearly
[all](https://lahood.house.gov/2023/5/lahood-delbene-cantwell-young-bipartisan-colleagues-introduce-legislation-to-build-2m-new-affordable-homes)
new federally-funded affordable rental housing.  In fact, LIHTC has been
instrumental in the construction of
[one-quarter](https://www.urban.org/urban-wire/lihtc-provides-much-needed-affordable-housing-not-enough-address-todays-market-demands)
of all multifamily units since its creation.

And we could get started right away if the Senate passes the bipartisan
Tax Relief for American Families and Workers Act passed by the House,
which would create or preserve more than 200,000 affordable rental units
through improvements in LIHTC.

The President also called on Congress to pass the bipartisan
Neighborhood Homes Tax Credit, which would lead to the construction or
preservation of over [400,000 starter
homes](https://neighborhoodhomesinvestmentact.org/) in communities
throughout the country.  In many communities, low property values and
high construction costs mean that it costs more to build single-family
homes than the developer could earn, even though increasing the supply
of affordable for sale homes would bring important value to the
community overall. 

While tax credits are a proven way to boost supply, it is also vital to
support the efforts of governors, county executives, and mayors who are
pioneering new approaches that can be scaled. That’s why the President
is proposing a new $20 billion Innovation Fund for Housing Expansion to
help communities expand their housing supply, including in amenity-rich
neighborhoods that promote the Administration’s fair housing goals.
These competitive grants would support cities, states, and tribes to
make significant investments in housing supply, through removing
barriers to new development, providing low-interest loans and other
financing to support affordable multifamily production, supporting
mixed-income public development and community land trusts, and building
starter homes.

This fund reflects the lessons we learned from the State and Local
Fiscal Recovery Funds in the American Rescue Plan. States, cities, and
tribes committed over [$18 billion to
housing](https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/jy2156)
initiatives, with about one-third, or $6 billion, of these funds going
towards housing production and preservation. These investments will
support more than 20,000 units of affordable housing and counting. For
example, New Hampshire used its
[allocation](https://www.nheconomy.com/investnh-housing#:~:text=InvestNH%20is%20funded%20through%20the,workforce%20housing%20in%20New%20Hampshire.)
to support a $100 million initiative to provide grants to help
developers fill funding gaps for affordable housing projects and to help
local governments update land use regulations.

These legislative proposals build on actions the Administration is
taking through our Housing Supply Action Plan. In fact, just last month,
HUD and Treasury extended the [Federal Finance Bank risk share
program](https://www.hud.gov/press/press_releases_media_advisories/hud_no_24_042),
which will lead to the production or preservation of 38,000 units over
the next decade. In the months ahead, we will take further action– from
supporting communities in identifying and removing barriers to housing
production to promoting the use of federal resources for
[conversions](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/10/27/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-takes-action-to-create-more-affordable-housing-by-converting-commercial-properties-to-residential-use/)
from office to residential and transit-oriented development.

**Closing**

Housing is a top priority for communities across the country—rural,
urban, and suburban.  President Biden has a bold plan to meet the needs
of renters and aspiring homeowners, unlock today’s housing market, and
build housing to meet tomorrow’s needs.  It lowers housing costs,
increases access to affordable housing, and enables working families to
build wealth and savings. We look forward to working in partnership with
all of you to meet this vital shared goal.
