---
date: '2022-08-31'
modified_time: 2022-08-31 11:07:51-04:00
published_time: 2022-08-31 11:07:50-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/08/31/a-proclamation-on-national-childhood-cancer-awareness-month-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Childhood Cancer Awareness Month,\_2022"
---
 
During National Childhood Cancer Awareness Month, we remember the bright
lives of children we have lost to this terrible disease.  We recommit
ourselves to finding new therapies to treat and defeat pediatric
cancer.  And we pledge to help children not only survive cancer but
thrive.  
     Cancer remains the leading cause of death by disease for American
children under the age of 15, and survivors often face physical,
emotional, and cognitive challenges.  Jill and I know from personal
experience how a cancer diagnosis can be paralyzing.  Worry and
heartache cast a shadow on life’s joys, medical bills mount, and
treatment paths are often confusing and difficult to absorb.  
     My Administration is committed to ending cancer as we know it.  The
First Lady and I reignited the 2016 Cancer Moonshot Initiative, and we
have set a goal of cutting the cancer death rate by at least half over
the next 25 years.  I formed a new Cancer Cabinet to ensure that Federal
agencies are coordinating cancer care programs, research, and
development.  And this year, my Administration created the first
Advanced Research Projects Agency for Health (ARPA-H) with the single
purpose of expediting breakthroughs in the prevention, detection, and
treatment of deadly diseases.  This is one of the pillars of the Unity
Agenda I announced in my State of the Union Address.  
     Although significant progress has been made, many parents still
have to advocate for their children’s basic care when insurance
companies refuse to pay.  My Administration is committed to
strengthening the Affordable Care Act and Medicaid to help ensure access
to preventive care screenings and life-saving treatments.  Thanks to the
American Rescue Plan’s provisions that build upon the Affordable Care
Act and other actions my Administration has taken, 1 million children
have gained health care coverage since I became President, helping
to reverse the coverage losses during the previous Administration. And,
as part of the Inflation Reduction Act, 13 million Americans will
continue to save $800 per year on health insurance premiums — making
lifesaving care affordable for millions of American families.  My
Administration is also committed to helping families navigate the flood
of information that comes with a cancer diagnosis.  For anyone
experiencing uncertainty around risk factors, treatment options, or
other opportunities for support, you can connect with a trained
specialist at 1-800-4-CANCER or visit
[cancer.gov](http://www.cancer.gov).  
     During this National Childhood Cancer Awareness Month, we recognize
the health care professionals, researchers, private philanthropies,
social support organizations, and patient advocacy groups who work
tirelessly to protect our children’s well-being.  We honor the courage
of our children fighting pediatric cancers and the strength of their
families and caregivers who never stop loving, supporting, and
advocating for them.  We rededicate ourselves to ensuring that every
child can enjoy a long, healthy, and fulfilling life.  
     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
September 2022 as National Childhood Cancer Awareness Month.  I
encourage citizens, government agencies, private businesses, nonprofit
organizations, the media, and other interested groups to increase
awareness of what Americans can do to support the fight against
childhood cancer.   
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first
day of August, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
