---
date: '2022-08-31'
published_time: 2022-08-31 11:00:54-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/08/31/a-proclamation-on-national-preparedness-month-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Preparedness Month,\_2022"
---
 
     During National Preparedness Month, my Administration recommits to
preparing our Nation for disasters, both natural and manmade, and
especially the extreme weather events that we face with increasing
frequency and ferocity.  We also continue our efforts to ensure that all
Americans have the resources they need to keep themselves and their
families safe.

     Every part of this Nation faces the threat of disasters, and while
many emergencies are unpredictable, we know that the most vulnerable
among us often bear the most significant impacts.  When extreme weather
destroys homes, families with less savings are more prone to housing
insecurity.  When pandemics arise, individuals without access to health
care are more liable to become sick or face financial hardship.  For the
future of all Americans, my Administration is committed to strengthening
our disaster resilience and continuing our strong partnerships with
State, local, Tribal, and territorial leaders.

    Our work begins with tackling the climate crisis.  We know that
wildfires are super-charged by prolonged drought, that storms and
coastal flooding are exacerbated by rising sea levels, and that extreme
heat threatens our power grids and national security.  That is why my
Administration has invested billions of dollars in clean energy, secured
funding for thousands of new climate-friendly jobs, and supported
enhanced wildfire preparedness and forest restoration efforts. 
This summer, I signed the Inflation Reduction Act, a historic law that
will slash our Nation’s greenhouse gas emissions by roughly 40 percent
through investments in renewable energy and low-carbon technologies and
also help communities cope with long-term drought.  And demonstrating
our commitment to global leadership, we rejoined the Paris Climate
Agreement and pledged to support developing nations in their campaigns
to combat climate change.  By addressing climate challenges today,
we can minimize the risk of natural disasters tomorrow.  
  
     My Administration has also taken steps to ensure that our roads,
bridges, buildings, and energy sector infrastructure are more resilient
to future natural and manmade disasters.  Last year, I signed a
once-in-a-generation infrastructure law to modernize our power grid,
protect us against cyberattacks, and revamp our ports, airports, and
freight infrastructure.  The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law invests over
$50 billion to protect against drought, heat, and flooding and includes
funding for the weatherization of American homes.  It also supports Army
Corps of Engineers projects across the Nation, which will reduce the
risks of coastal and inland flooding.  Through our Justice40 Initiative,
we are working to ensure that 40 percent of the overall benefits of
these historic investments reach communities that are marginalized,
underserved, and overburdened by pollution.  
  
    Additionally, we are investing in more resilient American supply
chains to make us less reliant on foreign countries for the critical
technologies that we need.  In August, I signed the CHIPS and Science
Act to accelerate the manufacturing of semiconductors in America and
help prevent economic disaster when disruptions to global supply chains
arise.  
  
    As we continue our fight against the COVID-19 pandemic and other
pathogens, my Administration is preparing for the emergence of future
biological threats of natural, accidental, and deliberate origin.  We
must be ready to prevent these catastrophes and treat pandemic
preparedness, health security, and global health as top national
security priorities.  That is why I am requesting significant funding
from the Congress to help us develop new vaccine technologies, accurate
and affordable diagnostics, effective therapeutics, and next-generation
personal protective equipment.  We also need Federal funds to enhance
partner countries’ capacities to prevent, detect, and respond to
infectious disease threats across the globe.

     Preparedness is a collective effort that requires the whole of
government and the communities we represent to work together. The
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) is helping to prepare the
Nation — hiring, training, qualifying, and retaining a ready workforce
that is available to deploy to support disaster survivors across the
country.  By training emergency managers across all levels of
government, FEMA is better equipping our country to respond quickly and
support all Americans.

     During this National Preparedness Month, let us strengthen our
support for first responders — our first line of defense when
catastrophes threaten our homes, businesses, schools, and families.  Let
us each recommit to doing our part to prepare for emergencies.  I
encourage all Americans to download the FEMA App and receive real-time
alerts, to turn on wireless emergency alerts on mobile phones, and to
pack emergency go-bags.  Everyone can access free information about
readiness at Ready.gov, or Listo.gov for Spanish-speakers.  Together, we
can be prepared for any disaster that lies ahead.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
September 2022 as National Preparedness Month.  I encourage all
Americans to recognize the importance of preparedness and work together
to enhance our resilience and readiness.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first
day of August, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh.

                        JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
