---
date: '2022-08-26'
published_time: 2022-08-26 20:32:55-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/08/26/a-proclamation-on-overdose-awareness-week-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Overdose Awareness Week,\_2022"
---
 
  The overdose epidemic has taken a heartbreaking toll on our Nation,
claiming the lives of far too many Americans and devastating families
and communities across the country.  During Overdose Awareness Week, we
renew our commitment to taking bold action to prevent overdoses and
related deaths.  We continue our efforts to enhance prevention, harm
reduction, treatment, and recovery support services for individuals with
substance use disorder and addiction.  We affirm our duty to stop the
flow of illicit drugs from reaching our communities.

     As the overdose epidemic has evolved, synthetic opioids
–particularly illicitly manufactured fentanyl — now drive the majority
of overdose deaths.  In 2021, more than 100,000 people died from an
overdose, an approximate 15 percent increase from the previous year. 
Every loss is a painful reminder that, now more than ever, we must
address our Nation’s overdose epidemic.

     As I said during my State of the Union Address, beating the opioid
overdose epidemic is an urgent priority for the Nation and a key pillar
of my Administration’s Unity Agenda.  That is why the American Rescue
Plan provided nearly $4 billion to strengthen our Nation’s mental health
and substance use care infrastructure.  The Department of Justice has
seized record amounts of illicit drugs and provided $94 million to adult
re‑entry and recidivism reduction programs, including almost $30 million
for substance use disorder treatment.  The Department of Health and
Human Services released a comprehensive Overdose Prevention Strategy,
increasing access to services for affected individuals and families. 
The White House Office of National Drug Control Policy released its
first *National Drug Control Strategy*, focusing on untreated addiction
and drug trafficking, two critical drivers of the overdose epidemic.
 We are making significant strides in ending the stigmatization
surrounding addiction so people can access the help they need.

     We are also changing how we help people with substance use disorder
in a variety of ways.  We are working to expand access to high-impact
harm reduction interventions like naloxone, the opioid overdose reversal
medication, and to remove barriers to effective treatment.  We are
addressing the underlying factors that lead to substance use disorder
and addiction.  We are targeting drug trafficking organizations by
disrupting the operating capital they need to sustain their criminal
enterprises.

     These are important steps, but we know more work lies ahead.  That
is why my budget calls for an historic investment of $42.5 billion for
National Drug Control Program Agencies to support the *National Drug
Control Strategy*, including $24.3 billion to support the expansion of
evidence-based prevention, treatment, harm reduction, and recovery
support services.  This request also includes increasing funding to
reduce illicit drug supplies and improve the health and safety of our
communities.

     Overdose Awareness Week is a time to remember those tragically lost
to overdose and the pain of the families who are left behind.  But it is
also an opportunity to recommit ourselves to working together to build
safe, healthy, and resilient communities.  By adopting evidence-based
approaches to reducing overdose risks and lowering barriers to treatment
and support, we can save more American lives. 

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
August 28 through September 3, 2022, as Overdose Awareness Week.  I call
upon citizens, Government agencies, civil society organizations,
healthcare providers, and research institutions to raise awareness of
substance use disorder to combat stigmatization, to promote treatment
and celebrate recovery, and to strengthen our collective efforts to
prevent overdose deaths.  August 31st also marks Overdose Awareness Day,
on which we honor and remember those who have lost their lives to the
drug overdose epidemic.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-sixth
day of August, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh.  
                             

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
