---
date: '2022-08-31'
published_time: 2022-08-31 10:49:56-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/08/31/a-proclamation-on-national-ovarian-cancer-awareness-month-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Ovarian Cancer Awareness Month,\_2022"
---
 
This year, nearly 20,000 women in the United States will be diagnosed
with ovarian cancer.  Hard to detect and frequently discovered in
advanced stages, this disease is often deadly for so many.  Structural
barriers inhibit access to quality and affordable health care, and
documented disparities in treatment can lead to higher mortality rates
for Black women and elderly women in particular.  During Ovarian Cancer
Awareness Month, our Nation honors those who are struggling with this
dreaded disease, remembers the loved ones we have lost, and recommits
to ending ovarian cancer — and all cancer — as we know it.  
  
This issue is personal to me and the First Lady, as it is for so many
families.  Earlier this year, we re-ignited the Cancer Moonshot
Initiative which I oversaw in 2016. The Cancer Moonshot Initiative has a
goal of cutting the cancer death rate in half — at least — over the next
25 years.  My Administration also created, and the Congress has funded,
the Advanced Research Projects Agency for Health (ARPA-H) at the
National Institutes of Health to revolutionize the way we detect and
treat diseases like cancer, Alzheimer’s, and diabetes.  With improved
screening and early detection technologies, diagnostics, treatments, and
supportive care, we are on the cusp of real breakthroughs.  The
incidence of ovarian cancer has decreased over the last decades as
survival rates have increased. 

     Of course, there is more work to do.  I promised to protect and
build on the Affordable Care Act (ACA), and that is exactly what my
Administration will do — including by guaranteeing protections for women
with preexisting conditions and preventing insurance companies from
dropping patients with ovarian cancer.  The ACA covers visits to a
primary care physician and gynecologist without copayments or
deductibles, which can lead to earlier detection of ovarian cancer.  We
must also increase diversity in clinical trials to ensure that new
treatments will work for everyone and to better understand why ovarian
cancer impacts some Americans more than others.  My Administration
will continue supporting the National Institutes of Health, the Food and
Drug Administration, and other agencies as they broaden outreach to
racial and ethnic minority populations and other underrepresented groups
and assess whether cancer treatments will be effective for the diverse
range of patients who need them.

     Expanding access to care is especially critical as we emerge from
the COVID-19 pandemic.  In the early days of the pandemic, Americans
missed almost 10 million cancer screenings.  Medical experts in my
Administration and around the country encourage women to reschedule
these appointments as soon as possible.  Additionally, the Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention’s (CDC) “Inside Knowledge about
Gynecologic Cancer” website is a useful resource for information on
ovarian cancer.  For people who think they may be at risk for this
disease, experts have compiled helpful information about ovarian cancer
at [cancer.gov/types/ovarian](http://www.cancer.gov/types/ovarian) and [cdc.gov/cancer](http://www.cdc.gov/cancer). 
Being informed is a first step toward prevention.  
  
As we observe National Ovarian Cancer month, we will never forget those
we have lost.  We honor our health care experts who work tirelessly to
save lives.  And we offer strength to women and families across this
country fighting ovarian cancer today and in the future.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
September 2022 as National Ovarian Cancer Awareness Month.  I call upon
the people of the United States  to speak with their doctors and health
care providers to learn more about ovarian cancer.  I encourage
citizens, government agencies, private businesses, nonprofit
organizations, the media, and other interested groups to increase
awareness of what Americans can do to detect and treat ovarian cancer. 

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first
day of August, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
