---
date: '2022-08-19'
published_time: 2022-08-19 10:32:28-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/08/19/a-proclamation-titled-national-employer-support-of-the-guard-and-reserve-week-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation Titled National Employer Support Of The Guard And Reserve Week,\_\
  2022"
---
 
Since our Nation’s founding, many courageous women and men have taken
the oath to defend our Constitution by joining the National Guard and
Reserve.  During National Employer Support of the Guard and Reserve
Week, we show our appreciation for the civilian employers who support
and honor our brave service members and their families.

The citizen Soldiers and Airmen of the National Guard, and the Soldiers,
Sailors, Airmen, Marines, and Coast Guardsmen of the Reserve, are
central to our Armed Forces and the security of our Nation.  When
activated, they answer the call to serve at a moment’s notice,
sacrificing their personal and professional lives to protect our safety
and freedoms. When they are not in uniform, these patriots from diverse
backgrounds balance the competing demands of their families, their
civilian careers, and their military responsibilities.  They serve as
teachers, pastors, engineers, civil servants, medical professionals, and
other critical roles in their local communities — strengthening our
Nation at home.  The Biden family is a National Guard family, and we
will always be inspired by all of those who put their country above
themselves to defend our way of life, just as my son Major Beau Biden
did in the Delaware National Guard.

Civilian employers play a critical role in ensuring a secure life for
service members and their families through stable employment, health
care, and benefits.  Our Nation is forever grateful for the patriotic
efforts of employers and businesses who empower our Guard and Reserve
service members to thrive.  During National Employer Support of the
Guard and Reserve Week, we honor our National Guard and Reserve members
and their families for their service and sacrifice.  We also thank
employers for their steadfast support of our Nation’s heroes, for their
outstanding contributions to our economy, and for the role they play in
the success of our military and our Nation.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim August 21 through
August 27, 2022, as National Employer Support of the Guard and Reserve
Week.  I call upon the people of the United States, State and local
officials, private organizations, and all military commanders to honor
employers of National Guard and Reserve members with appropriate
ceremonies and activities.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this nineteenth day of
August, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh.

                                 JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
