---
date: '2022-08-25'
modified_time: 2022-08-25 14:15:40-04:00
published_time: 2022-08-25 14:15:39-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/08/25/a-proclamation-on-womens-equality-day-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Women\u2019s Equality Day,\_2022"
---
 
     On August 26, 1920, after decades of hard-fought advocacy, women
won the right to vote, and our Nation moved one step closer to living
out our sacred ideal that all people are created equal.  On Women’s
Equality Day, we honor the movement for universal suffrage that led to
the 19th Amendment, celebrate the progress of women over the years, and
renew our commitment to advancing gender equity and protecting women’s
rights.

     This commitment is more important than ever in the wake of the
Supreme Court decision to overturn *Roe v. Wade* and eliminate a woman’s
constitutional right to choose.  My Administration is doing everything
in its power to protect access to the reproductive health care that
generations of women and activists have fought for, including abortion. 
We will continue to defend reproductive rights, which are integral to
gender equality and the fundamental freedoms Americans hold dear.  We
will also continue to support the Equal Rights Amendment, so that we may
enshrine the principle of gender equality in our Constitution.

     With the ratification of the 19th Amendment, millions of women
across the country were finally able to make their voices heard in our
elections.  Yet many women of color who helped lead the universal
suffrage movement were effectively denied those rights until the Voting
Rights Act passed 45 years later.  Today, the struggle to ensure that
every American can cast their ballot continues.  More Americans voted in
2020 than during any election in our history, but some States are
restricting this fundamental right through provisions that
overwhelmingly impact people of color, low-income communities, and
people with disabilities.  Women are less likely to have time to vote
in-person with increased caregiving demands and a disproportionate share
of low-wage, inflexible work.  The right to vote and to have that vote
counted is essential to the future of our democracy.

     Women and girls have fought for social justice and freedom
throughout our history, and my Administration is committed to building
on their progress.  All Americans should have the opportunity to fully
participate in society — no one’s rights should be denied because of
their gender.  As States across the country strip women of their ability
to make decisions about their own bodies, families, and futures, my
Administration remains dedicated to protecting access to critical
reproductive health care, regardless of gender, race, zip code, or
income.  We will continue to defend the right of all people to live free
from gender-based violence.

     We are also committed to ensuring women are treated fairly in the
workplace and have economic security.  We will fight for pay equity, to
end discrimination in the workplace, and to promote equitable access to
good-paying jobs, particularly in sectors where women are
underrepresented.  We remain dedicated to lowering the costs of child
care and passing policies to help women navigate caregiving and work
responsibilities.

     On Women’s Equality Day, we celebrate the trailblazers who fought
to deliver a better future for America’s daughters.  We recognize the
work that remains to ensure that everyone can fully participate in our
democracy and make fundamental choices about their health and bodies. 
We strive to uphold our Nation’s promise of equality for all people. 

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
August 26, 2022, as Women’s Equality Day.  I call upon the people of the
United States to celebrate and continue to build on our country’s
progress towards gender equality, and to defend and strengthen the right
to vote.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-fifth
day of August, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh.

                                JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
