---
date: '2022-08-31'
published_time: 2022-08-31 10:59:01-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/08/31/a-proclamation-on-national-sickle-cell-awareness-month-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Sickle Cell Awareness Month,\_2022"
---
 
Sickle cell disease (SCD) presents grave health challenges for an
estimated 100,000 Americans.  For some, it triggers intermittent
episodes of pain, difficulty with vision, and serious fatigue.  Other
survivors experience this disease more acutely — SCD can cause
infections, strokes, and even organ failure.  For almost everyone
impacted, coping with inherited red blood cell disorders means putting
plans on pause, living with excruciating pain, paying for expensive
treatments, and hoping for a day when medications and doctor visits no
longer interrupt life.  During National Sickle Cell Awareness Month,
we recognize the perseverance of SCD patients, and we recommit to
working with our partners in State and local government, the nonprofit
space, and the private sector to develop treatments and cures for this
debilitating disease.  
     Like many rare diseases, SCD affects our population unevenly. 
Black and Brown Americans are disproportionately affected.  About 1 in
13 Black children tests positive for the sickle cell trait, and about 1
in 365 Black Americans develops the disease over the course of their
lifetime.  Due to persistent systemic inequities in our health care
system, these same patients are also often the last to get help. 
Few specialty clinics are available for SCD treatments, information
about detecting this disease is not always widely shared, and pain
management can be a challenge due to the intermittent nature of sickle
cell crises and persistent racial disparities in pain assessment and
treatment.  Moreover, there exists no universally effective cure; bone
marrow and stem cell transplants have allowed some people to overcome
SCD, but low donor availability and treatment-related complications
render these procedures unviable for many patients.  
     Medical professionals and scientists in my Administration and
across our Nation are working to put an end to SCD.  The Food and Drug
Administration recently approved new drug therapies to help patients
manage their pain.  Through its “Cure Sickle Cell Initiative,” the
National Institutes of Health (NIH) is striving to develop safe and
effective genetic therapies and exploring applications for machine
learning to predict organ function decline in SCD patients. 
Additionally, the NIH has invited researchers to apply for funding to
support large-scale clinical trials on treating SCD pain symptoms.  We
are closer than ever to finding a cure today for all patients, and I am
optimistic about our progress.  
     Even so, it is still important for Americans to understand the
signs of this disease, the risks of inheriting this condition, as well
as the various resources available to those who test positive.  Most
people with the sickle cell trait do not exhibit symptoms, and many are
unaware of their potential to carry on this gene.  Experts agree that it
is important to get tested, especially if you have family members who
have been diagnosed with SCD.  There are also helpful resources online
to learn more about this disease, like the Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention’s sickle cell information page at
[cdc.gov/ncbddd/sicklecell/index.html](https://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/sicklecell/index.html).  
     As we continue our quest to cure sickle cell disease, let us
celebrate the strides our health experts have made in understanding and
treating this condition.  Let us offer strength to those Americans
fighting its effects today and unite in our mission to enhance the
quality of life for those diagnosed with SCD.  
     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
September 2022 as National Sickle Cell Awareness Month.  I call upon the
people of the United States to learn more about the progress we are
making to reduce the burden of this disease on our fellow Americans.  
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first
day of August, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh. 

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
