---
date: '2022-08-31'
modified_time: 2022-08-31 10:40:29-04:00
published_time: 2022-08-31 10:40:28-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/08/31/a-proclamation-on-national-recovery-month-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Recovery Month,\_2022"
---
 
Today, more than 20 million Americans are recovering from substance use
disorder.  Whether they are parents, children, siblings, neighbors,
co-workers, or friends, many of us are close to someone working to
overcome drug or alcohol addiction.  In celebration of Americans on the
road to recovery, this National Recovery Month we recommit to helping
prevent substance use disorder, supporting those who are still
struggling, and providing people in recovery with the resources they
need to live full and healthy lives.  
     When our fellow Americans recover from substance use disorder, our
Nation becomes stronger and more resilient.  Still, we recognize that
the path to full recovery can be long and demanding.  For many
struggling with untreated addiction, securing reliable housing and
long-term employment can be a challenge, restoring relationships can
take time, and treatment and recovery services can be expensive and hard
to find.  These obstacles are amplified for Tribal and other underserved
communities, including rural communities that must often travel farther
to find care.  Black and Brown Americans are also often subject to
harsher penalties for addiction-related charges.  
     My Administration is working to ensure that achieving and
sustaining recovery is within reach for every American and that everyone
has equal access to economic mobility and improved health.  This year,
we secured nearly $22 billion from the Congress to support drug
prevention, treatment, harm reduction, and recovery support services,
with a focus on underserved communities.  With the additional $4 billion
investment from our American Rescue Plan, my Administration is expanding
recovery community organizations, recovery high schools, collegiate
recovery programs, and recovery residences.  These vital support
networks allow people to balance healing with their everyday
responsibilities.  We are also advocating for recovery-ready workplace
policies across the public and private sectors to promote inclusive
hiring, enable employers to assist in the recovery process, and help
companies retain talent.  And to incentivize new innovations, the
Department of Health and Human Services is launching its first-ever
behavioral health Recovery Innovation Challenge to award funding to
peer-run and community-based programs that advance recovery and can be
scaled nationwide.  
     As I outlined in my State of the Union address this year, a key
pillar of my Unity Agenda is beating the opioid epidemic.  Drug
overdoses have taken a heartbreaking toll on our country, and addressing
untreated addiction is a key component of our National Drug Control
Strategy.  We also recognize that alcoholism remains one of the leading
preventable causes of death in the United States.  We owe it to the
loved ones we have lost to overdose and addiction to ensure that fewer
harmful substances — and particularly illegally manufactured synthetic
drugs — reach our communities and that people have greater access to
mental health and substance use disorder services.  That is why I am
calling for more Federal funding to equip law enforcement agencies with
the resources they need to target drug trafficking at our border and
disrupt traffickers’ financial networks.  It is also why I am calling
for a historic investment to transform behavioral health services across
America and help Americans receive the support they need and deserve.   
     As we consider the work ahead, let us remember that there are many
pathways to recovery and that overcoming substance use disorder is
courageous and difficult.  Let us also understand the importance of
eliminating the stigmatization of addiction.  I believe everyone who
experiences substance use disorder is capable of achieving and
sustaining recovery, and my Administration will support all Americans on
this journey.  
     This National Recovery Month, we thank peer recovery support
professionals, counselors, addiction specialists, first responders,
scientists, family members, and everyone who works tirelessly to help
our fellow Americans recover from substance use disorder.  We offer
strength to our loved ones at every step of their recovery process.  And
we rededicate ourselves to protecting our families and communities so
all Americans can enjoy health and happiness.  
     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
September 2022 as National Recovery Month.  I call upon all citizens,
government agencies, private businesses, nonprofit organizations, and
other groups to take action to promote recovery and improve the health
of our Nation.  
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first
day of August, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
