---
date: '2022-08-03'
published_time: 2022-08-03 15:21:06-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/08/03/executive-order-on-securing-access-to-reproductive-and-other-healthcare-services/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Executive Order on Securing Access to Reproductive and Other Healthcare\_\
  Services"
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1.  Policy.  On July 8, 2022, following a decision by the
Supreme Court to overrule *Roe v. Wade*, 410 U.S. 113 (1973), I signed
Executive Order 14076 (Protecting Access to Reproductive Healthcare
Services).  As that order recognized, eliminating the right recognized
in *Roe* has had and will continue to have devastating implications for
women’s health and public health more broadly. 

Following that order, the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS)
has taken critical steps to address those effects.  These steps include
clarifying the obligation of hospitals and providers under the Emergency
Medical Treatment and Labor Act, 42 U.S.C. 1395dd, to provide to
patients presenting at an emergency department with an emergency medical
condition stabilizing care, including an abortion, if that care is
necessary to stabilize their emergency medical condition, and issuing
guidance to the Nation’s retail pharmacies on their obligations under
Federal civil rights laws — including section 504 of the Rehabilitation
Act, 28 U.S.C. 794, and section 1557 of the Affordable Care Act, 42
U.S.C. 18116 — to ensure equal access to comprehensive reproductive and
other healthcare services, including for women who are experiencing
miscarriages. 

However, the continued advancement of restrictive abortion laws in
States across the country has created legal uncertainty and disparate
access to reproductive healthcare services depending on where a person
lives, putting patients, providers, and third parties at risk and
fueling confusion for hospitals and healthcare providers, including
pharmacies.  There have been numerous reports of women denied health-
and life-saving emergency care, as providers fearful of legal reprisal
delay necessary treatment for patients until their conditions worsen to
dangerous levels.  There are also reports of women of reproductive age
being denied prescription medication at pharmacies — including
medication that is used to treat stomach ulcers, lupus, arthritis, and
cancer — due to concerns that these medications, some of which can be
used in medication abortions, could be used to terminate a pregnancy. 
Reportedly, a healthcare provider, citing a State law restricting
abortion, even temporarily stopped providing emergency contraception.

As it remains the policy of my Administration to support women’s access
to reproductive healthcare services, including their ability to travel
to seek abortion care in States where it is legal, I am directing my
Administration to take further action to protect access to reproductive
healthcare services and to address the crisis facing women’s health and
public health more broadly.

Sec. 2.  Definition.  The term “reproductive healthcare services” means
medical, surgical, counseling, or referral services relating to the
human reproductive system, including services relating to pregnancy or
the termination of a pregnancy.

Sec. 3.  Advancing the Ability to Obtain Reproductive Healthcare
Services.  In furtherance of the policy set forth in section 1 of this
order, the Secretary of HHS shall consider actions to advance access to
reproductive healthcare services, including, to the extent permitted by
Federal law, through Medicaid for patients traveling across State lines
for medical care.

Sec. 4.  Promoting Compliance with Non-Discrimination Law in Obtaining
Medical Care.  In furtherance of the policy set forth in section 1 of
this order, and to ensure that individuals are not denied necessary
healthcare on the basis of any ground protected by Federal law,
including current pregnancy, past pregnancy, potential or intended
pregnancy, or other medical conditions, the Secretary of HHS shall
consider all appropriate actions to advance the prompt understanding of
and compliance with Federal non-discrimination laws by healthcare
providers that receive Federal financial assistance.  Such actions may
include:

(a)  providing technical assistance for healthcare providers that have
questions concerning their obligations under Federal non-discrimination
laws;

\(b\)  convening healthcare providers to provide information on their
obligations under Federal non-discrimination laws and the potential
consequences of non-compliance; and

(c)  issuing additional guidance, or taking other action as appropriate,
in response to any complaints or other reports of non-compliance with
Federal non-discrimination laws.

Sec. 5.  Data Collection.  The Secretary of HHS shall evaluate the
adequacy of research, data collection, and data analysis and
interpretation efforts at the National Institutes of Health, the Centers
for Disease Control and Prevention, and other relevant HHS components in
accurately measuring the effect of access to reproductive healthcare on
maternal health outcomes and other health outcomes.  Following that
evaluation, the Secretary shall take appropriate actions to improve
those efforts.

Sec. 6.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency,
or the head thereof; or

(ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and
subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.   

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

THE WHITE HOUSE,

    August 3, 2022.
