---
date: '2022-08-05'
modified_time: 2022-08-05 09:10:51-04:00
published_time: 2022-08-05 09:10:50-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/08/05/a-proclamation-on-national-health-center-week-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Health Center Week,\_2022"
---
 
Over half a century ago, President Lyndon B. Johnson piloted a program
to deliver affordable primary health care to Americans who needed it
most.  He helped establish community health centers in underserved
areas, making medical services accessible to people irrespective of
their age, geography, or economic status.  President Johnson’s
philosophy was simple:  in a “Great Society,” no one is left behind. 
Today, that ideal lives on.  Health centers provide quality medical,
dental, and behavioral health care services to more than 30 million
Americans each year, and they remain a cornerstone of our public health
system.  During National Health Center Week, we celebrate the vital role
these health centers play in safeguarding the well-being of Americans
and honor the heroic staff who keep these facilities running.

     Health care is a right, not a privilege.  Yet many people still
struggle to obtain the medical services they need.  Nearly 4 million
Americans remain locked out of Medicaid expansion, and millions more
find it difficult to afford prescription drugs, mental health services,
and preventive screenings.  Access to care is also often unequal — Black
and Brown Americans, rural residents, American Indian and Alaska Native
Tribes, and low-income families consistently report lower rates of
coverage and lesser access to primary care.  Federally funded health
centers meet these challenges head-on by providing medical services —
particularly to communities of color, rural communities, and individuals
living in poverty — through nearly 1,400 community-based organizations
operating over 14,000 service delivery sites.  Given that clinics
operate under a patient-majority governing board, health centers ensure
that decisions are being directly informed and made by those being
served.

     Since taking office, my Administration has strengthened our
Nation’s health center network.  Last year, we invested $7.6 billion in
American Rescue Plan funds to strengthen the health center workforce,
renovate facilities, and equip them with essential COVID-19 medical
supplies.  We also allotted $400 million from the American Rescue Plan
to create a partnership between the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention and AmeriCorps to train the next generation of public health
workers, including in community health centers.  We prevented sickness
and treated illness for millions of Americans.  We helped pay salaries
for over 272,000 full-time health care workers and supporting staff.

     Health centers are central to many of my Administration’s
priorities.  From reducing the cancer death rate by ensuring equitable
access to cancer screenings and preventive care to helping Americans
live healthier lives through new digital health technologies — we will
ensure that health centers are equipped for the future of health care.
 I remain committed to working with the Congress to double the size of
the Health Center Program, to putting even more Americans to work in
these centers across our country, and to ensuring that each of us can
access health care at an affordable price.

     During National Health Center Week, let us recognize our health
centers and staff for their outstanding contributions to communities
across America.  Let us thank them for their dedication, their service,
and their commitment to a stronger, healthier, and more equitable health
system.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim the
week of August 7 through August 13, 2022, as National Health Center
Week.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this

fifth day of August, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two,
and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred
and forty-seventh.

                                 JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
