---
date: '2022-08-31'
published_time: 2022-08-31 10:27:35-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/08/31/a-proclamation-on-national-prostate-cancer-awareness-month-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Prostate Cancer Awareness Month,\_2022"
---
 
     During National Prostate Cancer Awareness Month, we recommit
ourselves to taking on a cancer that will affect over 260,000 people in
America this year alone.  It is for those we have lost, those who
continue to fight, and those who will undergo this battle in the future
that we redouble our efforts to better understand prostate cancer,
develop innovative treatments, and make care affordable and
accessible.  
     Ending cancer as we know it is a top priority for my Administration
and a key pillar of the Unity Agenda that I announced in my State of the
Union Address.  This is personal to my family, as it is for millions of
Americans.  That is why the First Lady and I reignited our 2016 Cancer
Moonshot Initiative, setting a goal of cutting the cancer death rate by
at least half over the next 25 years.  My Administration created a new
Cancer Cabinet to ensure that Federal agencies can better coordinate
research and development.  And with bipartisan support, we secured $1
billion in funding from the Congress to launch the Advanced Research
Projects Agency for Health (ARPA-H), which will develop cutting-edge
cancer medicines, therapies, and early detection technologies.  
     While our Nation’s scientists push hard to find cures, we must also
safeguard protections for patients with preexisting conditions and make
treatments more affordable for individuals diagnosed with prostate
cancer.  No one should worry about whether they can pay for their doctor
or choose between filling a prescription and putting food on the table.
 The provisions in the Inflation Reduction Act will fulfil my promise to
make prescription drugs more affordable for millions of Americans — many
of whom are living with illnesses like cancer — by capping out-of-pocket
prescription drug costs at $2,000.  And it will finally allow Medicare
the ability to negotiate prescription drug prices.  
     We must also increase awareness about the symptoms of prostate
cancer so it can be detected and treated as early as possible. And it is
important that we acknowledge how prostate cancer affects us unequally.
 Men over the age of 65, men who have a family history of prostate
cancer, and Black men are most likely to be diagnosed and to die from
this disease.  I encourage these and all Americans to talk to their
primary care providers about the risk factors for prostate cancer, ask
about opportunities for screenings, and learn more about this disease at
[cancer.gov/types/prostate](http://www.cancer.gov/types/prostate) and
[cdc.gov/cancer/prostate](http://www.cdc.gov/cancer/prostate).  
     Our Nation is defined by possibilities, and when we invest in
American spirit and American ingenuity, there is nothing we cannot
accomplish.  During this National Prostate Cancer Awareness Month, let
us mourn those we have lost, offer strength to those who continue to
fight, thank the health care workers who battle this disease to give
others a chance at life, and join forces as one to protect the health of
future generations.  
     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
September 2022 as National Prostate Cancer Awareness Month.  I encourage
citizens, government agencies, private businesses, nonprofit
organizations, and other interested groups to join in activities that
will increase awareness of what Americans can do to prevent and cure
prostate cancer.  
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first
day of August, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh. 

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
