---
date: '2023-03-27'
modified_time: 2023-03-27 22:49:30-04:00
published_time: 2023-03-27 22:49:29-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/03/27/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-a-state-banquet-hosted-by-president-akufo-addo-of-ghana/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at a State Banquet Hosted by President Akufo-Addo\
  \ of\_Ghana"
---
 
*Jubilee House  
Accra, Ghana*

THE VICE PRESIDENT: Good evening, everyone.  Good evening.

Mr. President, thank you for extending my name.  (Laughter.)  *Abena*. 
Is that it?  There we are.  
  
And greetings to all the *Abena *who are here tonight.  (Laughter.)  
  
Mr. President, Madam First Lady, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Chief Justice,
to all the dignities and dignitaries who are here to the U.S.
delegation, members of the United States Congress, and all of the
friends and all of the members of the diaspora: Good evening.  
  
Mr. President, I thank you for hosting this state banquet.  Before I
begin my toast, I will, however, address the tragedy that occurred at
home in Nashville, Tennessee.  
  
We do not know all the details yet, but we do know that because of this
terrible act of violence, parents have lost children, families have lost
loved ones, and this community has been changed forever.  
  
So to the people of Nashville, please know that we are thinking of you
and that you are in our prayers and in our hearts, and that Doug and I
send you all of our best during this time of grief.  
  
Now I will proceed with my toast.  
  
As I begin this week-long visit across the continent of Africa, it is an
honor indeed, Mr. President, to start here in Ghana.  
  
I thank the members of Congress who have traveled with me — Senator
Coons, Congresswoman Cherfilus-McCormick.  And I thank you to all the
Ghanaian officials who have received us so warmly and who have made this
trip possible.  
  
We are joined today by incredible leaders from Ghana and throughout the
continent.  And here with us tonight are also individuals from the
United States who represent the glorious beauty of the African
diaspora.  
  
We have with us on this trip Oscar and Emmy winners, CEOs and media
publishers, civil rights leaders and advocates, artists and academics,
dignitaries and diplomats.  
  
And, Mr. President, you are personally responsible for welcoming and
encouraging the connection of the diaspora to this continent.  Because
of you, Mr. President, hundreds of thousands of Black Americans and
members of the diaspora around the world  
came here four years ago to participate in the Year of Return. 
(Applause.)

Because you are a student of history, and in the time during which I
have come to know you, you take great joy in reminding us all of where
we come from, but always with a glorious vision of where we also know we
can be.

And because of you, members of the diaspora and those around the world
have traveled to Ghana to remember the history of slavery, those who
have come here to honor their lineage and to understand their ancestry. 
And now, through Beyond the Return, many more visit each year.

Your vision, Mr. President, made this possible.  So, on behalf all of
those who have made the return, all those from America who join you
tonight, and all those who will return in the future, thank you, Mr.
President.  (Applause.)

President Joe Biden and I are committed to celebrate and strengthen the
longstanding ties that connect our people and our nations.  These ties
are a source of pride and strength for both our countries.

Mr. President, this is a topic that you and I have often spoken about. 
Over these past two years, it has been my honor to work with you on
these and many other critical issues.

When we first met at the White House in September of 2021, we started
our conversation about the intertwined history between our two nations,
a conversation about how we are, as nations, interconnected and
interdependent.

Last December, you and I spoke at the diaspora forum at the United
States-Africa Leaders Summit in Washington, D.C.

Waiting to take the stage, I was backstage as you spoke.  And I watched,
Mr. President, as you elegantly reminded the audience that, I quote,
“destiny of all Black people, no matter where in the world they are, is
bound up with Africa.”

I then announced, at that forum, that President Joe Biden would create a
new Presidential Advisory Council on Diaspora Engagement in the United
States.

Last month, both you and I attend the Munich Security Conference,
representing our respective nations.  There, you called for a change in
the paradigm of the continent’s relationship with the world, a point
with which I agree and reinforced when I spoke during my own appearance
in Munich.  
  
And now it is my honor to be here to continue that conversation, to
build on our work together, and to discuss our shared destiny.  
  
Mr. President, Ghana’s leadership and advocacy on the world stage is not
only vital, it is inspiring, historically so.  As you have mentioned, on
March 6th, 1957, when Ghana gained independence, it inspired millions of
Americans, as it did for millions around the world, including Reverend
Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., who came here to witness the dawn of a new
era.  
  
Dr. King, as we all know, and he wrote, was deeply moved by what he saw
here.  He wrote and spoke of it for years after.  He spoke and wrote
about what Ghana was teaching the world.  
  
And he predicted that Ghana’s independence, and I will quote, “will have
worldwide implications and repercussions, not only for Africa, but for
America.”  “Ghana,” he said, “tells us that the forces of the universe
are on the side of justice.”   
  
This remains true today.  Ghana is a leading voice for democracy and a
leading voice in the march for freedom, justice, and liberty. 
(Applause.)  
  
While we face real challenges, I look around tonight and I am truly more
optimistic than ever.  And I know that by working together, the United
States and Ghana, alongside the diaspora and the people of this
beautiful continent, will share and share our future for the better.  
  
I thank you.  And I raise this approaching glass –(laughter) — to you,
Mr. President.  And thank you for the warm welcome and visit.  Thank
you.  
  
(A toast is offered.)  
  
                                    END
