---
date: '2023-03-29'
published_time: 2023-03-29 19:03:06-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/03/29/remarks-by-president-biden-and-president-alberto-fernandez-of-argentina-before-bilateral-meeting/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden and President Alberto Fern\xE1ndez of Argentina\
  \ Before Bilateral\_Meeting"
---
 
Oval Office

2:55 P.M. EDT

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Well, Mr. President, welcome.  Welcome. It’s great to
see you.  Welcome to the White House.  
  
This meeting has been a long time coming.  We had to cancel this past
summer because I got COVID, but I’m delighted to see you here.  
  
You know, we’re 200 years — 200 years we’ve had diplomatic relations. 
And —  
  
(Interpreter begins to speak.)  
  
Are you translating that, or —  
  
And today we embark on the next century of our partnership.  This
meeting is a chance to reaffirm that nothing is beyond our reach if we
work together.  
  
And thank you for participating in our second Summit on Democracy
earlier today.  Together we’re working to protect human rights and — and
ensure democracy delivers for all of our people.  
  
And, together, we said this — we intend to stand up for our democracies
and what we value.  And particularly at the United Nations, I want to
thank you and your government for your — the way in which you’re
handling the invasion of Ukraine unjustly by the Russians.  
  
And I think we have an enormous opportunity to increase our economic
interchange, our economic integration, on everything from clean energy
to critical minerals to technology to security.  
  
We’re about to set on — out on the next century.  So let’s have a good
meeting because there’s a lot we can cooperate on.  
  
Again, welcome.  
  
PRESIDENT FERNÁNDEZ:  Thank you, *Presidente*.  Thank you, President.  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Please.  
  
PRESIDENT FERNÁNDEZ:  (As interpreted.)  Thank you very much, Mr.
President.  
  
Indeed, here we are in Washington.  It’s not the first time we’ve met. 
We’ve already had the chance to meet.  I think this is our third or
fourth time.  Well, actually, it was the G7, the Summit of the Americas,
among other occasions.  
  
But today we’ll be able to specifically talk about Argentina and the
United States.  
  
I think we have a great opportunity ahead of us after 200 years of
diplomatic relations between us.  In the last couple of years, we’ve had
to deal with a terrible scourge, which was the COVID-19 pandemic.  
  
I would like to thank you, Mr. President, for your support, not just for
Argentina but also for our continent, by supplying vaccines, which were
very useful in fighting the virus.  
  
More than once, we’ve had an opportunity to talk about the economic
problems that Argentina faces and which I inherited as a president.  The
international context is not helping.  
  
And I would also like to thank you for that because your administration
has also consistently supported us in the context of international
financial institutions.  
  
We see the serious problem that the Russian invasion of Ukraine has
created.

As you rightly pointed out, we have supported the U.N. position in
condemning the invasion.  The war has brought terrible damage to the
world economy.

We need to work a lot together for that war to end, for no more human
lives to be lost, and for the global economy to recover as well.

When the FAO says that over 300 million people may be suffering from
hunger as a result of the war, we see how urgent peace is, and we need
to do everything we can and work together to make sure that we can make
this end.

I think that both the administration of President Biden and our own see
democracy and human rights as central pillars for development, and we
must continue to work in that direction.

I also believe that, as countries, we have a great opportunity ahead of
us.

The world is demanding food, it is demanding energy, and we have all
those resources, and we can produce them in our countries.

You may recall my address at the Americas Summit, and I talked about the
importance of bringing together the north, the central part, and the
south of the Americas so that we can all work on producing and
developing food for all of humanity.  And that is still one of my
aspirations, which I hope we’ll be able to achieve.

We also share a concern with regard to climate change.  
Argentina, you may know, is going through the worst drought on record
since 1929, which has very much complicated our economy.  And this
situation is something that we are discussing with the financial
institutions.

So we certainly do look forward to your continued support, the way we
have had it so far.

And one last thing I would like to say to you, Mr. President.  Upon my
arrival in Washington, D.C., I saw the flags at half-mast, and I learned
about the Nashville tragedy.

I would like to convey my solidarity and sympathy to the families of the
victims.  But I would like to publicly state my support for your
initiative to regulate the sale of firearms in the United States.

This idea, which you are spearheading, represents a problem that the
world suffers.

In my country, some are suggesting that arms should be sold freely in
order for people to protect themselves.  So I deeply value your
initiative, and you can count on me as an unreserved partner.

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Well, thank you.  And thank you for expressing your
concern and sympathy.  As a matter of fact, as I speak now, my wife is
down at that school, meeting with the families to — to bring our sense
of concern.  And so it’s — it’s very difficult.  Losing a child is hard.

But thank you.  Thank you.

(President Biden addresses the press.)  Don’t get hurt leaving, please. 
(Laughter.)

Q    Any comment on Pope Francis, Mr. President?  The Pope is in the
hospital.

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  I just learned.   
  
Q    What’s that?  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  I just learned that five minutes ago.   
  
Q    Are you concerned?  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Yes.  He’s a good friend.

3:07 P.M. EDT  
