---
date: '2023-03-28'
modified_time: 2023-03-29 09:31:30-04:00
published_time: 2023-03-28 19:04:46-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/03/28/remarks-by-president-biden-on-investing-in-america/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on Investing in\_America"
---
 
Wolfspeed  
Durham, North Carolina

2:49 P.M. EDT  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Hello, everyone.  How are ya?  (Applause.)  Well, it’s
great to be here.  
  
Before I begin to talk about the whole notion of rebuilding America, I
want to talk very briefly about what happened in Nashville.  
  
You know, we know the names of the victims.  We’ve seen the initial
footage of the attack.  
  
Three children — three children dead, all just nine years old, including
the daughter of the pastor.  Three members of the staff — the school
custodian, a substitute teacher, and the head of school.  
  
I spoke with one of the — like, actually, it was the governor’s wife —
the governor — he was telling me his wife was about to have dinner that
night with her. 

There is still more to learn about what happened, but there’s plenty we
do know.

We know that this family’s worst nightmare — a family’s worst nightmare
has occurred.  I’ve lost a child not to that; I’ve lost a child on
accident and to a cancer.  But I’ll tell you, there’s nothing like
losing a child.  Particularly the more senseless it is, the more
devastating the impact on you.  It’s absolutely heartbreaking.  And it’s
senseless.   
  
You know, those children should all be with us still.  
  
By the way, have a seat, if you have one.   
  
They should still be with us.   
  
As a nation — this is not hyperbole — as a nation, we owe these families
more than our prayers.  We owe them action.   
  
You know, we have to do more to stop this gun violence that are ripping
communities apart and ripping apart the soul of this nation; to protect
our children so they learn how to read and write instead of duck and
cover in the classroom.  You know, we need to act.  These are weapons of
war.   
  
I’m a Second Amendment guy.  I have two shotguns.  My sons have
shotguns.  You know, but our states — you know, everybody thinks somehow
the Second Amendment is absolute.  You’re not allowed to go out and own
a — an automatic weapon.  You’re not allowed to own a machine gun. 
You’re not allowed to own a flamethrower.  You’re not allowed to own so
many other things.  
  
Why in God’s name do we allow these weapons of war in our streets and at
our schools?  
  
According to law enforcement, the shooter in this horror had two assault
weapons and a pistol.   
  
What in God’s name are we doing?  These guns are the number — gun- —
this is hard to believe — I never thought when I started my public life
— that guns would be the number one killer of children in America. 
Guns: number one.  It’s sick.  
  
And, overwhelmingly, a majority of gun owners agree:  We have to do
something.  Not just everybody; the gun owners agree.

There’s a moral price to pay for inaction.

Last year, we came together to pass the most significant gun safety
legislation in 30 years.  It was bipartisan.  We got it done.  And don’t
tell me we can’t do more together.  
  
So I again call on Congress to pass the assault weapons ban.  Pass it. 
It should not be a partisan issue.  This is a commonsense issue.  We
have to act now.  And people say why do I keep saying this if it’s not
happening?  Because I want you know who isn’t doing it, who isn’t
helping — to put pressure on them.  
  
You know, I know you see on television — it’s not just merely the weapon
in terms of its — that it’s semiautomatic, in effect, but the velocity
with which is comes out of that muzzle, what it does when it hits the
body.  Most bullets would go just straight through and out, leaving —
but it blows up once it’s inside your body.  What in God’s name — what
in God’s name does anyone need that for in America?

Folks, look, let me come to — speak to what I came to talk about.  
  
I want to thank Jake for the introduction. And, Mayor Elaine O’Neal,
thank you for the passport into the city. 

And, Governor Cooper, thanks for inviting me back to North Carolina. 
See, he should know better, but he’s invited me back.  (Laughter.) 
We’ve been doing this a lot.   
  
Where — where is the Gov?  There he is.  
  
By the way, if you had to name the five best governors of either party
in the United States of America, this guy is one of them.  (Applause.) 
You really are.  
  
And you know why?  You all know it — whether you’re Democrat or
Republican, liberal of conservative.  He has more integrity in his
little finger than most people have in their whole body.  What he says,
you can count on.  He’s completely, completely, completely straight.  
  
We’re also committed to this state, you’ve — you’re here on your wedding
anniversary.  And I just want you to know I sent flowers to your wife. 
I don’t know about you.  (Laughter.)  You better damn well be in time
for that dinner.  He has dinner later tonight.  I’m not going to tell
you the time because you may want to go to the same restaurant. 
(Laughter.)  But — but the fact is that I promise I’m not going to speak
until 6:30.  That’s when the dinner is.  
  
Gov, thanks for being here today, but thanks for your friendship.   
  
And you have two great freshmen members of Congress: Representative
Valerie Foushee.  Valerie, where are you sitting?  (Applause.)  There
you are, Valerie.  And Representative Wiley Nickel.  Wiley, stand up,
man.  (Applause.)  They’re fighting hard for the people of North
Carolina.    
  
And Secretary Gina Raimondo, former governor, is doing an incredible job
— an incredible job as a Cabinet member with me.  And she is
implementing the laws we’ve just passed and we’re making that is going
to change this country.  
  
And Wolfspeed CEO Gregg Lowe.  Gregg?  Gregg is over there.  There you
go, Gregg.  (Applause.)   
  
I was doing some photos, and a guy walked through the line.  He said,
“Last time you were here, you were here for lightbulbs.”  (Laughter.) 
We have a lot more lightbulbs now.  (Laughter.)  
  
Anyway, thanks for partnering with Governor Cooper on this historic
investment.   
  
This is the largest investment in manufacturing in the history of North
Carolina.  
  
I asked — I’ve asked CEOs — (applause) — I’ve asked CEOs this question
repeatedly since we’ve begun passing this legislation: When the United
States invests considerable resources in new industry, does it encourage
businesses to get in the game or discourage them?  And the answer is
universal: It encourages business to get in the game.  
  
Federal investment attracts private sector investment.  It creates jobs
and industries, and it demonstrates we’re all in this together.  And
that’s what today is about.  
  
We’re here to talk about what we’re doing to invest in America, to
invest in North Carolina and the progress we’ve made building an economy
from the middle out and the bottom up, not trickle down from the top
down.  That never landed on my dad’s kitchen table, the trickle-down
piece.  Progress we’ve made creating strong, sustainable economic
growth.  
  
We passed the American Rescue Plan right after I was elected, the most
aggressive economic recovery package since Franklin Roosevelt. 
(Applause.)   
  
We passed the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, the most substantial
investment since President Eisenhower’s investment in infrastructure —
roads, bridges, ports, airports, clean water, high-speed Internet.   
  
And we passed the CHIPS and Science Act, the most significant investment
in manufacturing and research and development in our history. 
(Applause.)  
  
We used to invest 2 percent of our GDP in research and development.  The
last 35 years, it got down to 0.7 percent.   
  
But America is coming back.  We’re determined to lead the world in
manufacturing of semiconductors.  We invented semiconductors in the
United States of America.  (Applause.)  
  
The Inflation Reduction Act is the most transformal \[sic\] — the
transformational investment in our climate ever anywhere in the world.  
  
Put it all together, it’s a plan to invest in America, invest in
Americans — give them an opportunity to invest in ourselves.  And it’s
working.  
  
Here’s what it looks like across the country: a record 12.4 million new
jobs, including 800,000 manufacturing jobs.  That means we’ve recovered
every single job lost in the pandemic and created 3 million more.  
  
Instead of exporting jobs — (applause) — instead of exporting jobs, like
— to get cheaper labor costs —  
  
Like, I come from the corporate capital of the world, Delaware.  More
corporations are incorporated in Delaware than every other state in the
union combined.   
  
About 30 years ago, under Democrat and Republican administrations,
corporate America decided to go with the jobs that are cheapest.  And
guess what?  America lost its edge in manufacturing, lost its edge
across the board.  And we did that for decades.  
  
Now we’re creating jobs.  We’re exporting jobs no longer.  American
products are being made here.  We’re growing the economy.  
  
And today I announced that since I took office, we’ve attracted — catch
this — we’re attracted 435 billion — billion dollars in private
investment in American manufacturing.  (Applause.)  
  
We’ve announced over 23,000 infrastructure jobs so far — projects so far
— not jobs, projects — in thousands of American communities across the
country.  
  
And, in the process, we’re strengthening our supply chain.  
  
Right here in America, here in North Carolina, we’re making chips that
go into electric vehicles.  These vehicles are powered by batteries and
critical minerals that we’re making — you’re making here in North
Carolina.  We’re making electric vehicles here in North Carolina.  
  
That’s what “invest” means when we say “Invest in America.”  
  
Before the pandemic, “supply chain” wasn’t something most Americans
thought about.  When you’d say “the supply chains,” you’d look at each
other with a blank stare.  
  
Well, guess what?  Everybody knows what the supply chain is because day-
— today, after delays in parts and products folks experienced, everyone
knows that’s why it’s so important; you have to have access to them.  
  
My economic plan brings the supply chain home, to the United States.  
  
I was asked by one foreign leader, who will remain nameless, why I was
doing this.  I said we’re no longer going to be — have to wait for
product from other countries.  
  
We’re going to — you’re going to have access to what we do, but we’re
going to have the supply chain start in America, building a clean energy
future made in America.  (Applause.)     
  
And that means providing incentives for companies to manufacture clean
energy technology here in North Carolina and across the country, where
companies are making electric vehicles because of our investments; in
Charlotte, where, you know, Albemarle is using funding from the
Bipartisan Infrastructure Act to process lithium and critical materials
that power EV batteries.  
  
Across the state — across the state, we’re building a network of
electric vehicle charging stations, and we’re going to build 550,000 of
them across all of America; where, driving up and down the coast or on
I-85, charging stations will be as easy to find as gas stations are
today.  And that’s a promise.  
  
And Wolfspeed is making an investment that will further strengthen the
supply chain, the largest investment in manufacturing in North Carolina
history.  $5 billion they’re investing.  (Applause.)   
  
They make the wafers needed to produce semiconductors, these small
computer chips — smaller than the end of your little finger — that power
everyday lives.  Everything.  Smartphones, washing machines, hospital
equipment, automobiles, you name it.  
  
They’re especially critical in powering electric vehicles, which can use
2- to 3,000 chips for a single vehicle.  
  
And building — they are construction — and — and building and the
construction — whether it’s the size — this building they’re
constructing will be the size of 38 football fields.  Let me say that
again: What they’re constructing is the size of 38 football fields.  It
will have 10 times the productive capacity compared to where we’re
standing on today — 38 football fields.  
  
Next door to Chatham County, VinFast is investing $4 billion to produce
electric vehicles, which will use the semiconductors Wolfspeed
produces.  
  
Think about this — what it means to our supply chain and to our
communities.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/03/image.gif"
title="Anchor" class="wp-image-73086" decoding="async" loading="lazy"
width="1" height="1" />
</figure>

  Instead of relying on mat- — on minerals made overseas in places like
China, the supply chain will be here in America, here in North
Carolina.  It’s a gamechanger.  
  
And, by the way, America invented these chips.  We invented them.  We’re
the guys that came up with it because of the — the space program.  
  
Federal investment helped reduce the cost of creating and marketing the
entire industry that America led.     
  
As a result, over 30 years ago, America had 40 percent of the global
chip production.  And then we got fat and happy.  Something happened.   
  
American manufacturing, the backbone of our economy, got hollowed out. 
Companies began moving, as I said, jobs overseas instead of products
overseas.  
  
As a result, today we’re down to producing around 10 percent of the
world’s chips, despite leading the world in research and design of new
chip technology.  
  
Why does this matter?  Well, we saw it during the pandemic.  When the
global economy came to a halt, overseas factories that make these chips
shut down, driving up costs for families.   
  
In fact, one third of the core inflation rate in 2021 was because of the
price of automobiles.  They couldn’t get enough computer chips, so they
started to shut down the lines.  Fewer cars were made.  Workers on the
shop floor were laid off.  Prices went up because the cars were in short
supply.  
  
Now — now we’re turning things around in a big way.  
  
Folks, where is it written — where is it written that says that America
can’t lead the world in manufacturing again?  Where the hell is that
written?  I don’t know that.  (Laughter.)  No, I’m serious.  Think about
it.  Think about it.  
  
All over the country, semiconductor companies are investing hundreds of
billions of dollars in a record amount of money to bring chips
production back home in Ohio, New York, Arizona — not just here.  
  
We’re bringing the key parts of the supply chain back to America. 
Companies in every part of the country are exp- –expanding factories and
building new ones, creating tens of thou- — tens of thousands of new,
good-paying jobs, which don’t need a four-year degree.  Don’t need a
four-year degree.   
  
Folks, when I say every job in America should be a good job, including a
free and fair choice to join a union, I mean it.  Every venture to
manufacture — every venture to manufacture electric vehicles — electric
vehicles’ batteries would be made stronger by collective bargaining
relationships with unions.   
  
Look, we’re working — (applause) — working to ensure a clean energy
manufacturing future is also — supports the American working families
and good union jobs.   
  
And, by the way, everybody thinks if you want to be an electrician, you
show up and you say, “I want to be an electrician.”  You go to a four-
or five-year apprenticeship.  It’s like going back to school.  You don’t
get the pay until you are qualified fully.  It takes four to five years
of training.  That’s why they’re the best workers in the world.  
  
I asked the South Korean chip manufacturing company why they’re moving
billions of dollars to the United States to build factories here.  He
said, “Because…” — swear to God — he said, “Because you have the best
workers in the world and the safest place in the world to build them.” 
(Applause.)  
  
Listen, I know many of you here in North Carolina  
and many of you watching at home, like — like the folks I grew up with
in Scranton, Pennsylvania, and Claymont, Delaware — you feel left out,
left behind in an economy that’s rapidly changing.  I get it.  
  
But hear — hear me: We will leave no one behind in this new adventures. 
We’re going to make sure all American workers, with college degrees or
without college degrees, are prepared to compete with anyone else in the
world.  
  
We’re working with companies and community colleges, technical schools,
union-led registered apprentice and training program to make that
happen.  
  
In fact, Wolfspeed is — is partnering with North Carolina community
college and North Carolina A&T, an HBCU that produces more Black
engineers than anywhere in the country — (applause) — to train workers
and build that pipeline to fill the jobs we’re creating.  

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/03/image.gif"
title="Anchor" class="wp-image-73084" decoding="async" />
</figure>

And partnerships with HBCUs like North Carolina A&T and North Carolina
Central University here in Durham, the community colleges across the
state, they’re going receive $60 million  
in American Rescue Plan funding to create new pipelines for good-paying
jobs in biotech, manufacturing, cybersecurity, and shipbuilding.  

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/03/image.gif"
title="Anchor" class="wp-image-73085" decoding="async" />
</figure>

The top private sector companies have committed to hire  
at least 3,000 North Carolinians from a new clean job\[s\] training
pipeline funded by the American Rescue Plan.  
  
Wolfspeed — Wolfspeed investment alone is going to lead to 1,800 North
Carolina jobs, the vast majority of which won’t require a college
degree.  And guess what?  The average pay for those non-college
graduates will be $80,000 a year.  (Applause.)  That’s almost double the
average annual wage of Chatham County in the new — where the new plant
is going to be built.  
  
It’s not just clean energy manufacturing.  Next door in Pittsboro, the
town getting $18 million to keep contaminants out of their drinking
water.  
  
Northeastern North Carolina — Alligator River Bridge connecting I-95 and
the Outer Banks will be replaced with a modern bridge so folks headed to
the beach don’t face the frustrating delays and detours.  
  
Talk to one of the seventy hundred thou- — 700,000 North Carolinian
families who are able to afford high-speed Internet because of our
infrastructure law.  We put it in, and it’s available.  (Applause.)  No
more having to pull up to a parking lot outside a McDonald’s to have to
turn on the Internet so your kid can do their homework when they’re
doing it online.  
  
And, by the way, just yesterday North Carolina — because of your
governor and state legislature — became the fourth — 40th state to
expand Medicaid under the Affordable Care Act — (applause) — the fourth
since I took office, including funding from the American Rescue Plan.  
  
Six hundred thousand North Carolinians are about to qualify for
high-quality healthcare — actually can afford it now for the first time
in their lives.   
  
So, thank you, Gov.  (Applause.)  It’s a gigantic deal.  It really is. 
It’s a big deal.  
  
Folks, this matters.  But thanks to Governor Cooper’s leadership putting
these federal dollars to work, people are starting to feel the effects
of — in their everyday lives.  
  
And these investments, what they mean that now —  
  
By the way — one thing that’s not part of the infrastructure bill but is
sort of health infrastructure: We finally — after years and years, we
were able to take on Big Pharma.   
  
Any of you who know anybody who has to — who has Type 1 diabetes or Type
2 diabetes?  Raise your hand if you know anybody.  Well, guess what? 
You’ve been paying $4- to $500 a vial for that insulin you need to stay
alive.  Well, guess what?  Now they cannot charge you more than 35
bucks.  (Applause.)  Thirty-five bucks.  Because it costs them only $10
to make.   
  
And, folks, that’s not all.  You know, a lot of people, particularly
those on Medicare, they have healthcare bills that are — insurance bills
for their insurance that is incredibly high.   
  
So, for drugs — so, for example, you need a — if you have a serious
cancer problem, you can be paying $13-, $14,000 a year.  Under the new
law, no one is going to have to pay more than 200- — $2,000 a year for
their healthcare, period.   
  
And guess what?  In the process, I’m cutting the federal budget $168
billion.  (Applause.)  You know why?  Because Medicare doesn’t have to
pay out those exorbitant, undeserved fees.  They’ll pay out what it’s
worth.  
  
So, folks, this not only helps patients, but it helps the economy.  All
these investments mean that now, if you grow up in North Carolina, you
go to school in North Carolina, you can stay in North Carolina and —
with a good job, and you can raise a family on it.   
  
How many of you before had, in small towns in North Carolina, a —
someone goes out and get a decent education, and the son or daughter
comes in, “Mom, I can’t stay here.  There’s no jobs for me.  I got to
leave.”  Well, you’re going to be able to stay.  You’re going to be able
to stay.  (Applause.)  
  
And none of this is happening by accident.  And it’s not just happening
in North Carolina.  It’s all part of my agenda to invest in America. 
American jobs.  American innovation.  Pride in our country.  Dignity for
workers and their families.  
  
But unfortunately, extreme MAGA Republicans — not all — but extreme MAGA
Republicans are threatening to undo all this progress.  They’re putting
our economy in jeopardy by threatening to refuse to pay America’s bills,
not the ones —  
  
I cut the deficit by $1.7 trillion in two years.  But guess what? 
They’re talking about not paying our debt, which is accumulated over 200
years.  All this — when you hear these trillion-dollar numbers, that’s
200 years of debt accumulated.  Two hundred years.  
  
And they want to repeal the Inflation Reduction Act, which means they
want to cut the investments in clean energy manufacturing and encourage
companies to expand and create jobs instead of — create jobs here.  
  
They want to cede our clean energy future to China to make us dependent
on overseas supplies and supply chains, export jobs overseas, and weaken
our energy security.   
  
MAGA Republicans in Congress, all — they want to cut — gut the CHIPS and
Science Act, stripping our investments in the next generation of science
and technology, like biomanufacturing, quantum computing, and morecula-
— <s>molecular electronics</s> \[microelectronics\].  
  
Look, folks, it would mean ceding the future of innovation  
and technology to China.  
  
Well, I’ve got news for you and for MAGA Republicans who are in the
Congress: Not on my watch.  (Applause.)  
  
We’re not going to let them undo all the progress we’ve made.  There’s a
number of Republicans that feel the same way.  
  
Let me close with this.  I’ve been determined to make things in this
country again, to build American manufacturing capacity, to make sure
we’re never again in a position like we were during the pandemic, where
we’re relying on other countries to make things that we need at home to
make anything.  
  
Folks, some folks didn’t believe we could do it, but I’ve made it no —
made no bones about it.  
  
I’ve said for a long time — and I mean this from the bottom of my heart:
If we invest in America, we can change the country’s future.  
  
Thirty years ago — I’ll say it again — we invested 2 percent of our
entire GDP in research and development.  By the time I came to office,
that was under 10 percent.  If I’m not mistaken, it was seven tenths of
1 percent.  
  
We’re turning that around.  We’re proving it’s never been a good bet to
bet against America.  I’ve never been more optimistic about our
country’s future.  We just need to remember who we are.  We’re the
United States of America.  
  
There is nothing — nothing beyond our capacity when we act together. 
Virtually nothing.  
  
God bless you all.  And may God protect our troops.  Thank you, thank
you, thank you.  (Applause.)  
  
3:12 P.M. EDT
