---
date: '2023-03-20'
published_time: 2023-03-20 16:51:46-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/03/20/remarks-by-president-biden-and-first-lady-jill-biden-at-nowruz-reception/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden and First Lady Jill\_Biden at Nowruz\_Reception"
---
 
East Room

1:13 P.M. EDT  
  
THE FIRST LADY:  Hello.  Welcome to the White House.  And *E-* —
(applause) — and *Eid-eh Shoma Mobarak*!  (Applause.)  
  
“For the feeling of peace  
for the sun after these long nights…  
for women, life, and freedom  
…freedom, for freedom, for freedom.”  (Applause.)   
  
Those lyrics are so powerful, aren’t they?  
  
AUDIENCE:  Yes!  
  
THE FIRST LADY:  When I first heard “Baraye,” I was stunned by the
courage of this song and the women it lifts up.  
  
Shervin Hajipour was arrested, but not before his video was seen 40
million times in two days.  (Applause.)  Not before his music became an
anthem for freedom, sung in the streets.  
  
And that’s why, in February, I was so honored to announce that Shervin
had won a Grammy.  (Applause.)  
  
And earlier this month, here in this room, we recognized the bravy
\[sic\] of — bravery of Iranian women and girls fighting for freedom at
the International Women of Courage awards.  (Applause.)   
  
Today, as the battle cry of “women, life, freedom” continues to
reverberate around the world, we cannot celebrate the renewal of spring
without thinking of them.  This new year, they, too, should be
surrounded by support and kindness.  
  
So, to the girls and women of Iran, I want to say: Your song sings in
our hearts.  We see your struggle, and we stand with you.  You are not
alone.  (Applause.)  
  
Their courage is reflected in everyone who celebrates this holiday.  And
so, together, we plant our hopes on the Haft-Sin table, weaving them
among the sprouts of wheat or lentils, watering them with visions of
victories we seek this new year.  
  
Like seeds breaking through the earth, our hopes reach towards each
shining sunrise, nourished by the healing that we find together, our
love for one another, the wisdom gained from the year now finished, and
the patience we learn from our ancestors.  
  
Even as we are renewed, we are rooted in the history that lives inside
of us, the families who shaped us, and the shoulders on which we
stand.  
  
History lives in this house as well, hammered into the beams of these
walls and swirling in the marble of each fireplace.  It tells the
stories and legends of where we’ve come from and who we’ve — who we’ve
been.  
  
And yet, standing here in front of a beautiful Haft-Sin; hearing music
by DJ Danny — (laughter); and as we eat incredible food prepared by Chef
Nasim Alikhani — (applause) — where are you?  Where are you, Chef?  I
met you earlier.  She must be here.  Ah, somewhere?  Well, you’ll eat
her food a little later.  (Laughter.)    
  
We know that the White House, too, can grow and evolve and begin
something new.  With our unique talents and traditions, with our love
and laughter, with our faith in the future that we want, we breathe new
life into these halls.  
  
This is an historic house, but you make it a home, alive with purpose
and possibility.  So, let us begin once again, be reborn in hope and
healing, wisdom and love.  
  
And now, it is my pleasure to introduce astronaut and future commanding
— commander of our next mission to the International Space Station,
Lieutenant Colonel Jasmin Moghbeli.  (Applause.)  
  
LIEUTENANT COLONEL MOGHBELI:  Thank you so much, Dr. Biden.   
  
Wow.  Never as a kid standing around the Haft-Sin for the Sal Tahvil
could I have imagined I would get to say these next words right here in
the White House: *Nowruz Eide Shoma Mobarak*.  (Applause.)   
  
Nowruz means “new day.”  It is the celebration of the arrival of spring
and all the hope that comes with it.  It is a holiday full of symbolism,
with each element of the Haft-Sin — or seven S’s — being
representative.  
  
Growing up, my brother and I took part in preparing the Haft-Sin.  We
would help grow the *sabzeh*, a symbol of rebirth and growth, which
often came in the form of a chia pet in our household.  (Laughter.)  The
goldfish, a symbol of progress, was often one that my brother or I had
won at a school fair.  The *ayeneh* — or mirror — that we used, a symbol
of self-reflection, was the same one that had been used at my parents’
wedding, would eventually be used at my wedding, and now sits at my
family’s Haft-Sin table.  
  
And this year, for the first time, my daughters were able to participate
as well by decorating the eggs and growing the *sabzeh* at our
Haft-Sin.   
  
Last week, I went back to my elementary school and spent some time with
the young students there.  I remember when I was a student, my mom would
come in each Nowruz and speak to the — my classmates about the holiday
and our culture.  It was at that same elementary school that my dream of
someday becoming an astronaut began.  
  
While visiting, one of the students asked me, “Are you going to be the
first woman to walk on the moon?”  They’re referring to NASA’s Artemis
program, which just last year completed its first test flight, Artemis
1, and will soon return astronauts to the Moon, paving the way for
future human missions to Mars.  (Applause.)  Thank you.  
  
I answered simply and honestly, “I don’t know.  But I could be.”   
  
Isn’t it amazing that I could say with complete honesty, as an Iranian
American woman who wasn’t even born here, that I have just as much
chance as anyone else of being on the Artemis 3 mission?  (Applause.) 
That I’ve even had the opportunity to become a NASA astronaut in the
first place, and that later this year, my lifelong dream of launching to
space will come true as I will have the honor of commanding the Crew-7
mission to the International Space Station.  (Applause.)  
  
Each Nowruz, we give thanks for our blessings and look ahead to the
future.  Even during difficult times, we hope for renewal and
transformation.  
  
Reflecting on this past year, I stand here so proud of my Persian
heritage but also incredibly proud to be an American.  (Applause.)   
  
It is now one of the greatest privileges of my life to introduce someone
who celebrates the many vibrant cultures and traditions that make up our
nation, someone who understands the importance of taking everyone with
us as we push the boundaries of exploration that, in doing so, we
benefit America, our beautiful planet, and those on it.  
  
Please welcome — please join me in welcoming the President of the United
States, Joe Biden.  (Applause.)   
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Hello, hello, hello!  (Applause.)  Welcome to your
house.  (Applause.)   
  
Thank you, Lieutenant Colonel.  I just want one commitment from you:
When you head to Mars, you won’t take Jill; she’d be gone too long. 
(Laughter.)   
  
An astronaut, a Marine, a mom.  A fellow American who will take us to
the Moon, Mars, and beyond.  That’s America.  Think about it.  That’s
who we are.  
  
Good afternoon, everyone.  As we celebrate new beginnings, Jill and I,
along with Kamala and Doug, are honored to host a new national tradition
— and I say a “new national tradition” — the first Nowruz reception on
this scale ever held in the White House.  And you’re evidence of it. 
(Applause.)  
  
Excuse me, I have a little bit of a cold.   
  
It’s a celebration that’s been a millennium in the making, observed by
millions of people around the world this very day, and the roots in
anci- — in ancie- — in ancient Persia.  You know, one that was carried
on by people and in the gardens of Shiraz, the mountains of Kabul and
Erbil, in the shores of Baku and beyond, most of which I’ve got a chance
to visit — but I got to — get to come home too.  (Laughter.)  And one
that has always been honored anew by diverse diaspora in communities
across the United States, including all of you.  
  
You know, folks, it’s the start of a new year that reminds us of hope
and what that lies ahead from these darkest times so many have been
through.  
  
And we know that this year’s holiday comes at a difficult time for many
families.  Hope where is needed more than ever is going to be coming.  
  
Hope for families in Turkey and Syria, who are grieving for the loss of
far too many loved ones from that devastating earthquake.  
  
Hope for people in Afghanistan who continue to struggle with a grave
humanitarian crisis.  
  
Hope for women of Iran who are fighting for their human rights and
fundamental freedoms.  (Applause.)  Isn’t it amazing how young your
daughters or granddaughters are — how they’re moved by what they see on
television?  It’s amazing.  Thank God it’s hard for them to believe. 
It’s hard for them to believe.  
  
The United States sta- — stands with those brave women and all the
citizens of Iran who are inspiring the world with their conviction and,
I have to emphasize, their courage — their genuine courage.  
  
And together with our partners, we’re going to continue to hold Iran —
Iranian officials accountable for their attacks against their people.  
  
I also want to recognize two proud Iranian-Americans with us today who
know better than anyone the power of holding on to hope and the
possibility of a new day.  Jason — where’s Jason?  (Applause.)  He’s
back there.  And Ye- — Yeganeh.  And there’s — and Rezaian.  
  
Look, Jason and — you’re both been — were unju- — you were both unjustly
detained in Iran.  Jason for 544 days.  We worked very hard to bring him
home when I was Vice President.  Thank you for — both for being here
today.   
  
And to all those — (applause) — all those who are unjustly detained in
Iran or anywhere in the world, know that you are not forgotten, and we
will not try and — stop trying to get you home.   
  
Returning wrongfully detained and people held hostage — and particularly
Americans and their families — is a top priority for this
administration.  
  
And I’m very glad to say that, just today, an American aid worker, Jeff
Woodke — Jeff Woodke has been released after spending six years hostage
by a terrorist group in West Africa.  (Applause.)  He’ll soon be
returned with his wife and family.   
  
And we’ll continue our work to bring home all Americans held hostage or
unjustly detained.  
  
You know, the — in the 14th century, the Persian — the Persian poet
Hasez \[sic\] — Hafiz — excuse me — said: “Out of the great need, we are
holding hands and climbing.”  “Out of the great need, we are holding
hands and climbing.”  
  
All around the world, wherever we need — the need is great, this holiday
offers a moment to reach out — reach out and, together, to begin to
climb toward a new day, one full of hope and new possibilities.  
  
I thank all of you.  You’ve continued to spread the hope for this
holiday across every part our own country.   
  
We see it in the homemade pastries and new presents exchanged.  
  
We hear it in the sound of children banging pots and in the laughs of
families who’ve come together.  
  
And we feel it in the communities that gather to make this celebration
such a joyous part of American culture, one that reflects the soul of
who we are as a nation.  
  
You know, it’s a soul that we also see reflected at this Haft-Sin —
Haft-Sin — and I’m — (laughs) — I’m tempted to walk over.  Anyway. 
(Laughter.)  
  
The sprouts that remind us, though, that we can always begin anew.  The
vinegar that symbolizes the power of tolerance.  The apple that inspires
us to believe in a more beautiful and healthy future.  
  
And even the table itself — a place where we gather in unity.  A place
where young and old come together to honor the past and the present.  A
place where we may disagree and debate but we always — always there’s a
seat for everyone.  
  
That’s America at our best: resilient, tolerant, courageous, hopeful,
diverse.  That’s who we are.  
  
We’re the only nation in the world built on an idea.  Every other nation
— that’s not hyperbole.  Every other nation is based on things like
geography, ethnicity, religion.  But we’re the only nation built on an
idea that we hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men and
women are created equal, endowed by their Creator with certain
unalienable rights, et cetera.  
  
We’ve never fully lived up to it, but we’ve never, ever walked away from
it.  And that’s due in large part to the waves of immigrant families who
have come from every part of the world to push our nation ever forward,
renewing and reinvigorating our nation generation after generation after
generation.  
  
We see that today in this very room.  
  
Maybe you or your parents or grandparents came to America, uncertain of
what life would bring but certain you and your children and
grandchildren would be able to do anything you wanted to do here, try
it.  
  
You’ve grown up seeing your children forged by their heritage but also
the kinds of friendships found every day in American things — soccer
practice, band practice — just those special times, and all the things
that make an extraordinary life in our generation — in our great
nation.  
  
And thanks to all of you for enriching the soul of this nation.  Thank
you for adapting old traditions anew to tell the ongoing story of
America, one firmly stamped by your experiences.  
  
Let me close with this.  Few periods have been more challenging to our
world than the one we’re going through right now.  And we face an
inflection point.  I had a professor who said, “An inflection point is
when you’re going down the highway at 65 miles an hour and you radically
turn five degrees to the right.  You can never get back on the course
you were on.”

Well, recent decisions — points — the decisions we make today are going
to determine the course of our future for the next several decades to
come.  
  
Now more than ever, we need you — we need you — engaged in the work of
our time to help fulfill the promise of this nation — the same promise
of opportunity, equality that brought you and your families here in the
first place.  
  
That’s what I hope for this very day: to celebrate and connect, to feel
the pride of community, to keep the faith in our country.  
  
“Out of a great need, we’re all holding hands and climbing.”

We have to keep climbing.  
  
I’ve never been more optimistic in my life about the future of this
country.  And I mean that sincerely.

Let’s remember who in God’s name we are.  We are the United States of
America.  (Applause.)  And there is nothing — I mean this from the
bottom of my heart: There is nothing — nothing beyond our capacity if we
do it together.  
  
Happy Nowruz to all of you and your families.  And may God bless you
all.

Before — (applause) — before the reception begins, we have a special
performance for you — a special performance for you.  So, I’m going to —
we’re going to get off the stage here and let you be truly entertained. 
(Laughter.)

Thank you.  Thank you, thank you, thank you.  (Applause.)

(Musical performance begins.)  
  
(Sahba Motallebi performs “Birth.”)  
  
(Rana Mansour performs, “Woman, Life, Liberty.”)  
  
(Musical performance concludes.)  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Well, thank you both so very, very much.  You’re
incredible.  You’re incredible.  
  
Folks, you know, the Persian culture is amazing.  As a student of the
Persian culture — not a practitioner, but a student — it’s incredible
where the world is, where the world wouldn’t have been without — without
the culture.  I really mean it.  (Applause.)   
  
If you’ll excuse me for quoting a non-Persian poet — (laughter) — that
relates to today — because I know the hope in all your hearts, your
desire — I mean, it’s real.  You can feel it in this room, just the
looks on your faces, those of you who still have folks back there.   
  
Well, other people who have been persecuted as well have had poets that
talk about their future.  One of my favorite poets happens to be an
Irishman named Seamus Heaney, and Heaney wrote a poem called “The Cure
at Troy.”  And there’s a stanza in the poem that I think reflects what
all of you are thinking, should be thinking, and will succeed in doing. 
He said,  
  
“History \[teaches us not to\] hope  
On this side of the grave.  
But then, once in a lifetime  
\[That\] longed-for tidal wave  
Of justice \[rises\] up,  
And hope and history rhyme.”  
  
It’s my sincere hope we’re doing everything in our power — everything in
our power to make that happen.  It’s an incredible, incredible culture. 
Incredible people.   
  
And thank you for being here.  Thank you for making this day known to
all Americans, because everybody watched this.  
  
Thank you, thank you, thank you for all you’ve done.  
  
And thank you for the incredible talent you sent.  (Laughter.)  You’re
amazing.  (Applause.)   
  
Did you want to say anything, babe?  You want to say anything?  
  
THE FIRST LADY:  Just please go and join the reception.  Thank you. 
Thank you for coming to the White House.  (Applause.)  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  You’re amazing!  Remember who you are.   
  
1:43 P.M. EDT
