---
date: '2023-03-31'
modified_time: 2023-03-31 16:32:22-04:00
published_time: 2023-03-31 16:32:21-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/03/31/remarks-by-president-biden-on-tornado-response-and-recovery-efforts/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on Tornado Response and Recovery\_Efforts"
---
 
Residential Neighborhood  
Rolling Fork, Mississippi

1:48 P.M. CDT

THE PRESIDENT: Governor, thank you very much. You know, when I heard
about the devastation here in Rolling Fork, the first thing that came to
mind was, “I got to get a hold of Bennie Thompson.” It’s his district,
and he treats it like his home. He’s been a steadfast leader in every
crisis I’ve worked with him on, and he’s always there for his
constituents. And he’s been a great partner of mine.

And the governor is right. The governor — I tried him earlier, but he
was already out on the road. I couldn’t get him right away. And to let
him know that — I made it clear that we’ll do everything — everything
that’s legally within my power to do to be of assistance to the people
in this community.

And, Mayor Walker, I know this has been especially hard for you since
you’re not only the mayor, but you’re also — and I mean this sincerely —
the funeral director. It’s been tough. You’ve had to prepare people to
be buried who you were with, know well.

And thanks to Sharkey County officials and local officials and first
responders and community members who have worked around the clock to
rescue survivors. They get people to safety and sort through the
wreckage.

But Jill and I are here to show our support. Unfortunately, I’ve been to
too many sites like this over the last two years around the country;
I’ve — probably with the FEMA director — better part of 12 to 15.

And I always see the same thing in America: When the neighborhood is in
trouble, the whole neighborhood comes to help.

Walking down the street here, being told by people the reason we were
able to get through it, one family told me: “When, finally, the roof
came off the house, we were under the bed, we came back down, and all of
a sudden it was quiet. And before I knew it, the Red Cross was out
front. Before I knew it…” And went on to talk about the neighbors that
helped.

And, folks, I know there’s a lot of pain and that it’s hard to believe,
at a moment like this, this community is going to be rebuilt, and
rebuilt and built back better than it was before.

The resilience of this community has been remarkable. And I just want
you to know, as you fight through this, you’re not alone. The American
people will be with you. They’ll help you through it, and so will I.

Multiple tornadoes are — tore through Mississippi, Alabama, and
Tennessee last Friday night. The most powerful came through Rolling
Fork.

It stayed here just a little over three minutes. Just imagine. Look it.
I mean, I know those you who have been through it know. Three minutes.
Three minutes, this neighborhood is basically gone. The stores,
everything — gone.

And the most powerful part of the tornado came through Rolling Fork. It
stayed here and had the effect — it was so devastating. Unless you
physically saw it, it’s hard to believe. Thirteen lives lost. I met a
number of the families earlier today, Jill and I — my wife and I.

Three hundred homes and businesses that are nothing more than piles of
twisted materials mixed up with personal items that mattered so much —
teddy bears, family albums, clothes, dishes. The basics of life, all
gone.

People are still going through the rubble, seeing if they can find that
picture of grandmom or that wedding ring that was on the bureau, or that
special memento that means so — meant so much to them. They get lost,
too.

Some of this dysfunction and destruction that you’re seeing here is
going to take years to recover and rebuild, but we’re starting now.

When I spoke to the governor, he said what he needed most was a federal
disaster declaration so that — in the earliest hours of Sunday morning,
I signed that expedited Major Disaster Declaration, which gave you more
access to more federal resources.

With that declaration, we’re providing funding to cover overtime for
local emergency responders to cover the cost of removing all debris —
100 percent of that cost.

We’re also authorizing cash grants for people who lost their homes,
whether they own or rent, to pay for things that may not be covered by
insurance, like temporary housing, home repairs for those who have homes
still standing, or to replace lost personal property, like furniture and
appliances and vehicles.

You know, after talking to Bennie and your governor, today I authorized
the federal government to cover 100 percent of the cost for removing
debris and emergency measures that are involved in keeping up here, like
keeping shelters up and running, and paying for every- — overtime for
everyone — 100 percent of the cost — not for the state, but for us — for
30 days. And then, after that, we’re not leaving either.

In the midst of all you’re dealing with, I know that it’s overwhelming.
You figure out — got to figure out how we can help, what you need.

That’s why right now we have 300 federal personnel on the ground,
including FEMA’s Disaster Survivor Assistance Teams to ensure a
well-coordinated response to get you the assistance you need. We’re
walking through damaged neighborhoods to find people in need and help
them re- — they’re — they’re walking through now — going on, if there’s
any doors to knock on or people standing there, just to find out where
everyone in that house was or is.

We’re trying to make it as easy as possible. So, on Monday, the FEMA
Disaster Recovery Center will be opening four — in four counties,
including this one, so we’ll be able to walk in to a situation, explain
your circumstance, let people know what you need, and learn more about
how you can get the help as quickly as possible.

(Speaks to reporters.) You can’t hear me? Oh, you’re talking to somebody
else, I’m sorry.

Look, you know, you can also apply for assistance for FEMA online. On- —
the online is DisasterAssistance.gov. Or call 1-800-621-3362.
1-800-621-3362.

Already, 1,700 people — one thousand seven hundred people — have signed
up for help.

In addition, the Department of Agriculture has made sure families
qualifying for Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program — so-called
SNAP program — can use these benefits for meals in grocery stores, gas
stations, convenience stores, the dollar store, and other vehicles. You
can use that SNAP money — those SNAP material to get meals you need.

Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Marcia Fud \[sic\] is here —
Fudge is here, and FEMA Administrator Deanne Criswell — Criswell is
here, because we’re bringing every element of the federal government
together to help with the immediate needs and long-term rebuilding.

For example, the Department of Agriculture is identifying temporary
housing, reimbursing farmers and livestock owners for lost crops and
lost livestock.

The Small Business Administration is here, helping businesses get
low-interest loans to recover and to rebuild.

And if you don’t have insurance or you’re underinsured, FEMA can help
you get started by funding your home repairs, replacing some lost and
damaged property, like cars and refrigerators.

I know how important it is for the post office, is all — to many of you
— in every community. It’s where most people get their prescriptions
these days. Well, we’re working to make sure you can still have access
to them. The — what we’re doing is, the national Postal Service is going
to set up temporary post office, which al- — you’ve already seen, on the
grounds of the present post office, which is not useable.

I also want to note that some of these communities are again facing the
threat of severe weather in just one week later, if you’ve looked at the
weather forecast.

FEMA and other federal personnel are here on the ground, ready to
respond and to support state and local officials if, in fact, they do
amount to major storms.

  
I want to urge everyone here to listen to local officials and be
prepared to take shelter. And we’ll go — got to — you got to go through
this together again, if it happens.

And let me close with this message to the people of Rolling Fork and
Amory and Silver City and Carrollton and Winona and that — other
communities that have been hit.

We’re not just here for today. I’m determined that we’re going to leave
nothing behind. We’re going to get it done for you.

That’s why I’m here, why your Congress are here, why the governor is
here.

We’re focused on — now on making sure you’ve got the place to sleep,
food to eat, helping you rebuild your lives in Rolling Stone \[Fork\].

But long term, I know this is your community. This is where you built
your lives. And we’re going to make sure you can stay right here.

There’s nothing we can do to heal the hole in your hearts left by the 13
people who passed, many of whom I met their families: Melissa Price
\[Pierce\]. Lonnie Price \[Pierce\]. Mary Bush. Doris \[Deloris\]
Harris​​. David Moore​​. Phyllis Maxey​​. Daryl — excuse me — Daryl Purvis​​.
Linda Herman. Erica Moore. Brenda Odoms​​. April Johnson. Lavette
\[Lavetta\] Herman. And Wendy \[Wanda\] Kelly.

As I’ve told some of the survivors, we all have had experiences — not
the same, but getting that sudden experience you’ve lost someone is
devastating. It’s absolutely devastating. And we kind of understand it.

But I’ve heard incredible stories about the spirit of these families and
the resilience and your bravery.

The town of Rolling Stone \[Fork\] will be back, and we’ll be with you
every step of the way.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Rolling Fork.

THE PRESIDENT: And I — Ro- — what did I say? I did — I said “Rolling
Fork.” “Rolling Stone.” I got my mind going here. (Laughter.)

We’ll be back. And we’ll be with you every step of the way.

So, God bless you all. And God bless our first responders. Thank you.
(Applause.)

2:00 P.M. CDT
