---
date: '2023-03-21'
modified_time: 2023-03-21 19:01:09-04:00
published_time: 2023-03-21 13:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/03/21/remarks-as-prepared-for-delivery-by-nec-director-lael-brainard-on-the-economic-case-for-junk-fees-policies/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks as Prepared for Delivery by NEC Director Lael Brainard on the Economic\
  \ Case for Junk Fees\_Policies"
---
 
Hello everyone and welcome to today’s panel discussion on the economic
case for why the President is taking on junk fees on behalf of working
Americans.  Excited to hear from our great group of panelists.

**Junk fees are those sneaky fees** that are hidden from consumers when
they are shopping for the best price, and sneak up on them when they
have already made up their mind and are about to make payment.  Each
year, “junk fees” cost Americans tens of billions of dollars. Junk fees
hit the most vulnerable Americans the hardest.

They can take hundreds of dollars a month out of the pockets of
hard-working families and undercut honest transparent price competition
in many markets. That’s why the **President has called for action to
crack down on junk fees** in his State of the Union address and at the
Competition Council over the last 12 months.

According to recent surveys, junk fees is an area where **75 percent of
the American people regardless of party lines want us to act**. 

But junk fee regulation isn’t just popular, and it isn’t just a real
cost savings for millions of families at a time when every dollar counts
– **it’s also smart economics**.  Regulating junk fees by leveling up
the playing field has a strong foundation in decades of economic
scholarship.  Junk fees weaken competition, penalize honest businesses
that want to be transparent up front about the all-in price, and lead to
a race to the bottom.

I cannot think of a better set of panelists to explain the economic case
against junk fees.  They have written some of the central papers on
deceptive pricing and how junk fees harm competition – and have real
world experience in trying to price in a fair and transparent manner
while others are hiding the ball and in leveling up the playing field so
businesses who are doing the right thing are not undercut.

We’ll hear from David Laibson, a renowned economist, on how junk fees
undermine markets by weakening and distorting competition, imposing the
largest burden on the most vulnerable households.  

We’ll hear from Vicki Morwitz, an eminent psychologist and behavioral
scientist, on how common pricing practices – such as drip pricing and
partitioned pricing – deceive and confuse consumers about the actual
cost of what they’re buying.  
  
We’re joined by Bill Kovacic who was a member and Chair of the Federal
Trade Commission during the George W. Bush Administration and Chair. He
will speak to the long bipartisan history of scrutinizing junk fees,
including at the FTC during the administration of President Bush.

Finally, we’re going to hear from Laura Dooley from Stubhub, who will
speak to her company’s efforts to introduce up front, all-in ticket
pricing in 2015, breaking away from the industry standard of dripping in
those fees through the purchasing process. She’ll explain how her
company lost out when they acted alone, and how government junk fee
regulation can solve this collective action problem by creating one
standard and a level playing field for the ticket seller industry.

I am pleased that a number of businesses are already taking action to
provide customers with transparency and get rid of junk fees. The
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau increased its oversight of banks’
reliance on junk fees in late 2021, **leading 15 of the 20 largest banks
to end bounced check fees**.  This month, the Department of
Transportation launched a dashboard comparing family seating fee
policies of major airlines.  I am pleased to see that **American,
Alaska, and Frontier airlines have all made commitments **to provide
fee-free family seating, and **United** has taken initial steps to
improve their policy.

Many of you have played an integral role in these actions and are doing
more work to address some of the most pervasive junk fees in your
sectors.

We have representatives in the room today from sixteen agencies,
including The Department of Transportation, Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau, Federal Trade Commission, Federal Communications
Commission, and Department of Housing and Urban Development. I want to
say thank you for all the work you’ve been doing to crack down on junk
fees in your industries and excited for this conversation to provide us
all with more information to be maximally creative and forward thinking
as we work on this issue.

And with that, I will pass it off to Michael Negron and Neale Mahoney
who have been leading this work at the NEC to facilitate the panel
discussion.

\###
