---
date: '2023-03-17'
published_time: 2023-03-17 16:42:17-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/03/17/remarks-by-president-biden-and-taoiseach-leo-varadkar-of-ireland-at-the-annual-friends-of-ireland-luncheon/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden and Taoiseach Leo Varadkar of Ireland at the Annual\
  \ Friends of Ireland\_Luncheon"
---
 
U.S. Capitol  
Washington, D.C.

1:19 P.M. EDT  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Thank you, thank you, thank you.  (Applause.)  Thank
you.  (Applause.)  Thank you, thank you, thank you.  
  
You have all heard the expression — and this is attributed to a guy
named Shane Leslie, who once wrote, “Every St. Patrick’s Day, every
Irishman goes out to find another Irishman to make a speech to.” 
(Laughter.)  Well, that’s why I’m here.  (Laughter.)   
  
I’m glad to be with all of you.  And most importantly, I’m glad that
we’re surrounded by so many friends of Ireland.  
  
Here in Washington, we’ve always been able to work across the aisle on
Irish issues no matter what our politics have been, no matter what else
we agree or disagree on.    
  
So, Mr. Speaker, thank you for bringing us together again.  I was trying
to think — I think I’ve made almost every one of —  
  
(Stool falls in the room.)  
  
Don’t get hurt, man.  We need you.  (Laughter.)  You okay?  All right.  
  
Mr. Speaker, I want to thank you for bringing us together.  And thank
you to all the Irish Americans here today who have spent years building
a broad bipartisan consensus on the issue of Ireland.  
  
You know, Taoiseach, it’s great to see you again.  We just spent a
little time down in the Oval Office, and we just finished an excellent
meeting.  So — so now we can enjoy a little bit of a celebration.  
  
You know, to all the friends and leaders who traveled from Ireland and
Northern Ireland, it’s wonderful to see so many of you here once more.  
  
I stand here today, like most you, as a descendent of the Blewitts of
County Mayo and the Finnegans of County Louth.  I was telling the
Taoiseach that I — when I would have — as Vice President, I’d always
have a breakfast for the Taoiseach before he’d go over to see the
President for those eight years.  
  
The seventh year, I think it was, Nance, that I went in, and the
Taoiseach — I brought him into the Oval and he sat down.  And before
Barack could say anything, he said — he said, “For God’s sake, Barack,
let the boy come home.”  (Laughter.)  (Said in Irish accent.)  “Let him
come home.”  I swear to God.  True story.  
  
And he said, “You keep sending him to places like Afghanistan, Iraq, and
all the — let him come home.”   
  
And I keep — you have to help me with the Gaelic expression: a hundred
thousand welcomes.  What’s the —  
  
TAOISEACH VARADKAR:  *Céad míle fáilte.*  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  *Céad míle fáilte*.  
  
And he said you’ll — he’ll get a hundred thousand welcomes.  And it was
one of the — but he didn’t — they didn’t plan on my bringing my whole
family.  (Laughter.)  But literally, we saw thousands of people.  
  
And I was saying that being raised by a grandpop who went to Santa
Clara, back in the days when Irish in Northeast Pennsylvania didn’t very
much get a chance to go to college, and he was an All-American football
player at Santa Clara.  And he came back as a newspaper guy, on the
business side.  
  
And my grandfather used to say that, you know, the — when anything —
every time I’d walk out of his house in Scranton, Pennsylvania, when I
lived there for a while, he’d look at me and say, “Joey, remember, the
best drop of blood in you is Irish.”  (Laughter.)  And my grandmother
would say, “You need more than that.”  (Laughter.)  
  
But you know — (laughs) — but the fact is that when — when I went over
to Ireland, I — it was — it was a great — a great experience.  I’d been
to Ireland many times but not to actually look up to find my actual
family members — and there are so many.  And they actually weren’t in
jail.  They were all — (laughter) —  
  
But all kidding aside, I met the Blewitts and the Finnegans and all of
the folks who were — we’re related to.  Spent six days there.   
  
And one of the things that — and the Finnegans were from County Louth. 
And they’re still — if you go to County Louth, there’s still a place
called “Finnegan’s Pub,” which is — Reverend, it’s related to my — my
family.  And I’m the only Irishman you’ve ever met, though, that’s never
had a drink.  So, I’m okay.  (Laughter.)  I’m really not Irish.  
  
But, look, as many of you know, I, like all of you, take pride in my
Irish ancestry.  And as long as I can remember, it’s been sort of part
of my soul that I’ve — how I’ve been raised.  
  
And, you know, during the times of — of darkness and despair, it always
sort of brings light — strength when you think about what my ancestors
went through and what we’re going to — through now, and the history that
binds us and the values that unite us.  
  
You know, they’re values I learned at my grandpop’s kitchen table, where
he would always — you know, you — my grandpop’s kitchen table,
particularly on Sunday after 10:30 mass at St. Paul’s, I’d get to —
you’d get to wander around the ta- — we never got to sit down when you
were a kid.  But he had four sons, and they’d sit there.  And another
guy from the newspaper, a guy named Tommy Philips, who was sort of, at
the time, the David Broder of the Scranton paper.   
  
And they’d sit there and they’d talk.  And one day, you know, I remember
sitting there talking about a guy that — I didn’t understand why he was
sticking up for him.  And he was the city chairman of the party, whose
son was city chairman when I ran for President.   
  
At any rate — and he was always in trouble.  He was sort of like a —
like a late Mayor Daley.  You know, a “brother-in-law on the payroll”
kind of thing.  
  
And so, I couldn’t understand.  My grandpop was Mr. Rectitude, and I
couldn’t understand why he was, you know, so — liked him so much.   
  
And he reached up and — you could wander the table, you just couldn’t
sit — and he put his arm around me and said, “Joey, come here.”   
  
And I knew this was about to be a — you know, a public lesson for Joey. 
And he said, “You’re wondering why I like Patty.”    
  
And I said, “No, no, no, no, Grandpa.  No.”  And he said, “No, you’re
won-…”  And he said, “Let me tell you something.  He’d look at you and
say, ‘Ambrose, I’m going to cut your heart out.’  And you know he’d mean
it.  Or ‘Ambrose, I’m going to jump off the bridge for you.’  Whatever
he said he’d do, just remember, do what you say.  Do what you say.”  And
he was one of those guys who always did what he said.   
  
And I — he — the biggest thing for my grandfather was, “Joey, never
bend, never bow, never kneel, never yield.  Never.  Never.”  
  
And the values I learned from my mom, Catherine Eugenia Finnegan Biden —
she used to say, “Remember, you’re defined your courage, and you’re
redeemed by your loyalty.”  “You’re defined by your courage, and you’re
redeemed by your loyalty.”   
And my father’s values were similar, but he had a saving grace.  There
was a Hanafee on his mother’s side of the family, from Galway.  And, you
know, my dad was one of those guys who taught all of us that everyone,
no matter who they are — everyone is entitled to be treated with dignity
and respect.   Everybody.  Not a joke.   
  
My father would no more walk through the Hotel DuPont and say hello the
chairman of the board of the DuPont Company we didn’t know, but say
hello to him and not say hello to the shoeshine guy.  That was my dad.  
  
And so, you know, everyone — everyone is deter- — these are the same
values that I and all of you, I think, try to pass down to our children
about hope and the future.   
  
And more than anything, I believe this hope is what beats inside the
heart of all of us and all of our people — the idea that there’s nothing
beyond our capacity if we work at it hard enough.  
  
For generations, it was hope that brought our — our countries together
in war and in hardship and in hope that had inspired so many of our
ancestors to reach for a future of  
greater peace and greater security and possibilities.  
  
To this day, I think hope still brings us together.  Hope.  Hope.   
  
I used to drive Barack crazy because I’d always say to him, “Mr.
President, the country will never be more optimistic than their
President.  It’s all about hope.”  It’s all about hope.  
  
And to this day, hope still bring us together, and it’s going to allow
us to achieve big things, in my view.  
  
It’s important to keep that — that in mind that — as we approach the
upcoming anniversary of the Good Friday Agreement.  You know, I wish
George was here — George Mitchell — who spent a long time —  
  
Hard to believe, 25 years ago, this year, that the agreement was made. 
It was — delivered nearly 25 years of progress in Northern Ireland,
which, at the time, nobody, I thought, thought was possible.  There were
still people getting killed, still people getting shot, still people at
war with one another.  
  
For years, people found ways to walk — work across party lines and above
the differences to make all this happen.  But it was a real struggle. 
But people never gave up.  
  
And as I said, giants like — George Mitchell devoted his life to this
building and the Congress and the Senate, but he also — he never backed
down.  He never gave up.  
  
And the Northern Ireland — Irish leaders who are here today, they took a
lot of brave steps that were necessary to — so that their children might
have a better future.  
  
And the Northern Ireland leaders that are here today, let me say how
important it was to see you standing shoulder-to-shoulder with — with
the Chief Constable Byrne after your — and affirming your commitment to
the future, following the attempted murder of Detective Chief Inspector
Caldwell.  
  
Well, I have to continue to work to protect peace and stability.  And I
met, out in San Diego, with — with the British Prime Minister, and we
talked about our commitment to the Windsor Framework.  It’s a vital,
vital step, and — that’s going to help ensure all the people in Northern
Ireland have an opportunity to realize their full potential.  
  
And I just keep reminding my family and anybody near me that I’m a big
fan of Seamus Heaney.  And when he passed away, his wife was kind enough
to send me a long, handwritten note and a copy of his poems that he had,
some of which he had written by hand.   
  
And one of my — “The Cure at Troy” is one of my favorites.  And he used
the phrase — and he said — remember that:  
  
“History says, don’t hope  
On this side of the grave.  
But then, once in a lifetime  
The longed-for tidal wave  
Of justice \[rises\] up,  
And hope and history rhyme.”  
  
I think we have a chance of making hope and history rhyme, with all our
differences.  I think those of us who have been coming to this dinner a
long time have never been in a case where, from the perspective of the
public, the parties and the politics has been so divided as it is
now.   
  
But I agree with the Speaker.  There’s no reason why we can’t find
common ground.  There’s no reason why we can’t hope to change this —
this direction of the extremes in both our parties are pushing.  I think
it’s important.  I think it’s really important.  
  
And that is a — that’s the power of friendship.  I think that’s the
power of — that’s the strength of our partnership if we work at it.  
  
And simply put, I think it’s the Irish of it.  I think it’s the Irish of
it.   
  
So I hope we can turn this breakfast into a — more of an everyday
relationship that we — the way we treat everyone in this Congress to
just — there are so many possibilities we have.   
  
We can disagree on details, but there’s nothing — as I always say, just
remember, we’re the United States of America.  Nothing, nothing, nothing
is beyond our capacity.  Whatever we’ve set our mind to in the past,
we’ve done — no matter what.   
  
Let’s remember that.  That’s who the hell we are.  That’s who we have to
continue to be.   
  
And that’s why I’m here.  And I’m so proud to introduce the Taoiseach. 
(Applause.)  
  
TAOISEACH VARADKAR:  Thank you all so much, Mr. Speaker, Mr. President,
members of Congress, ambassadors, esteemed friends, and colleagues.  It
means so much for me to be back here again as the leader of our country
on this — on our national holiday.   
  
And I’m very pleased that I’m joined in the room by political party
leaders from Ireland and Northern Ireland, including Jeffrey Donaldson,
Mary Lou McDonald, Michelle O’Neill, Colum Eastwood, Naomi Long, and
Doug Beattie, and also the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland Chris
Heaton-Harris.  It’s great to have us all in the same room, and it’s
been good to be able to interact with each other over the past couple of
days.  
  
And I have to say, it’s a pleasure to be sat next to the Speaker and the
President, not to keep the peace, but — (laughter) — but rather to thank
them for doing so much to protect and promote peace and prosperity on
the island of Ireland.  
  
So, congratulations, Speaker McCarthy on your election to this great
office.  And thank you so much for continuing the tradition of the
Friends of Irish Luncheon.  
  
I know, two years ago, in your St. Patrick’s Day message, you said that,
on this day, “everyone is Irish” — a sentiment that I think will find
unanimous bipartisan support.   
  
And I have to say everyone in Ireland is proud that an Irish — an Irish
American holds the Speaker’s gavel.  And we wish you the very best in
your term as Speaker, and I look forward to working with you on areas of
common interest.  
  
As was mentioned earlier, it was on St. Patrick’s Day in 1981 that a
great American President, Ronald Reagan, first spoke of the search for a
just and — just and peaceful solution in Northern Ireland.   
  
Through successive administrations, members of Congress, the U.S. has
played a central role in helping us to find that solution.  You made
political interventions at pivotal moments, built relationships across
parties, and supported communities.  And through your contribution to
the International Fund for Ireland, you encouraged dialogue and made
peacebuilding possible.  The IFI’s vital work continues today, thanks in
no small part to the advocacy of so many of you here in the room today,
and we are so grateful for that.  
  
And as a nation, we will be forever grateful to the Friends of Ireland
Caucus for your commitments to Ireland, north and south.  
  
Mr. Speaker, this year is the 40th anniversary of the first Friends of
Ireland lunch hosted by Speaker Tip O’Neill — and I had the pleasure to
meet his daughter only the other day — and also attended by Ronald
Reagan.  Reagan and O’Neill shared a vision of the role that the U.S.
could play in promoting and securing peace, helped achieved the
impossible.  
  
And, Mr. Speaker, as you know, this year is also the 25th anniversary of
the Good Friday Agreement.  That landmark achievement was made possible
because people chose to believe in the potential for peace and the
promise of a better future.  A bit like that American way of believing
things that anything, in fact, is possible.  
  
The efforts of the parties in Northern Ireland and the Irish and British
governments would not have succeeded without your input and steadfast
support from all our friends and partners here in the U.S.  A cycle of
violence that ravaged the island for 30 years or more was broken, and
history was made with a remarkable peace agreement based on political
leadership, vision, and compromise.  
  
And now we have to complete that work and fulfill the agreement’s
promise not just of peace, but also of reconciliation to build a shared
island together.   
  
I know that the people of Northern Ireland want to see their political
assembly and devolved government back up and running, and their
politicians working to improve their lives.  
  
So much has been achieved since 1998.  And today, new generations of
young people are growing up with no memory of the conflict their parents
endured.  And as somebody who grew up in the ‘80s and ‘90s, when
political violence was an almost everyday occurrence, that is something
to be profoundly grateful for.   
  
I believe there are now incredible opportunities for economic
development in Northern Ireland, especially with the potential of the
Windsor Framework recently agreed between the European Commission and
the EU government.  Our task now is to complete that mission and to help
the people of Northern Ireland to build a more peaceful and more
prosperous future together.  
  
Mr. Speaker, today we must also remember how Russia is attempting to
deny the people of Ukraine any kind of future through its brutal
invasion.  While Ireland is a militarily neutral country, we’re not
politically neutral in the face of violations of international law and
human rights.  
  
The past 13 months have united us all who believe in freedom and
democracy and the rule of law and the U.N. Charter.  And we stand with
Ukraine because silence means surrender, and we’ll not stay silent when
liberty, freedom, and fundamental human rights are being attacked.  So —
(applause) — so we will stand with Ukraine for as long as it takes.  
  
And we’ve seen so many times in history how the story ends if it’s not
challenged, how appeasement — no matter how well intentioned —
ultimately fails.  And I have to say I endorse the ongoing cooperation
between Europe and the United States to help defend our Ukrainian
friends.  
  
In the last century, America led the free world in the fight against
fascism and then communism.  And in this century, America leads the free
world once again.  And we thank you for that.  
  
Mr. Speaker, symbols matter.  And occasions like today matter as well,
because they reinf- — reinforce the invisible bonds that connect people
of different political backgrounds together and join countries
together.  Our story is one of friendship and partnership and, above
all, a belief in the possible, a belief in the promise of tomorrow.  
  
So thank you again, Mr. Speaker.  And Happy St. Patrick’s Day to
everyone.  (Applause.)  
  
1:48 P.M. EDT
