---
date: '2023-03-27'
published_time: 2023-03-27 16:54:16-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/03/27/remarks-by-first-lady-jill-biden-at-the-national-league-of-cities-congressional-city-conference/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by First Lady Jill\_Biden at the National League of Cities Congressional\
  \ City\_Conference"
---
 
Marriott Marquis | Washington, D.C.

THE FIRST LADY:  Oh, my goodness.   
  
AUDIENCE MEMBER:  We love you!  
  
THE FIRST LADY:  Well, I love you back.  Thank you so much.  
  
You know, I — I hate to say what I’m going to say next because, you
know, you’re so enthusiastic and with so much energy and hope, and I
feel it.  But while you’ve been in this room, I don’t know whether
you’ve been on your phones, but we just learned about another shooting
in Tennessee — a school shooting.  
  
AUDIENCE:  Ohhh —  
  
THE FIRST LADY:  And I am truly without words.  And our children deserve
better.  (Applause.)   
  
And we stand — all of us — we stand with Nashville in prayer. 
(Applause.)   
  
So, thank you, Mayor Woodards.  And I recently saw firsthand how you are
building a stronger Tacoma by supporting students — (applause) — that
must be the Tacoma group — (applause) — by working with families.  
  
And as a college professor, it means so much to me that one of the ways
you are doing that is by investing in education.  (Applause.)    
  
And Mr. Anthony and the entire NLC team, thank you for your work and for
this opportunity to join you all today.  
  
My husband always — often says that local leaders get things done. 
(Applause.)  When people need safe roads to drive to work, when
businesses need more support to stay open, when parents need to know
that their children are safe, there’s no time for political posturing or
division.  You — all of you — you reach across the aisle and you look
for common ground.  
  
You find the solutions that people need.  You’re not just serving your
constituents; you’re serving your neighbors and your kids’ teachers and
the people that you see at church or temple each weekend.  
  
Joe’s admiration for mayors is clear.  It’s why he’s recruited mayors
like Mayor Pete, Mayor Walsh — (applause) — Mayor Landrieu, and Mayor
Lance Bottoms for his Cabinet and White House staff.  
  
So, it is a special honor to be here with all of you.  
  
In the last two years, you’ve helped your communities recover and
rebuild after the pandemic.  
  
And, today, no surprise, I want to talk to you about education and jobs
— (applause) — and specifically — yes, jobs.  That’s what we all want,
right?  (Applause.)  And specifically, how we can work together to help
our students get the education and training they need for the careers
that they want.   
  
I’ve spent a lot of time visiting community colleges across the
country.  I mean, a lot.  In fact, many of you know that because many of
you joined me.    
  
One of my first trips as First Lady was to Sauk Valley Community College
in Illinois to hear — (applause) — where is Illinois?; it must be over
there — (applause) — to hear how they are helping rural students go to
college tuition free.  (Applause.)     
  
Mayor Woodards and I visited Bates Technical College in Tacoma. 
(Applause.)  Your (inaudible).  Where the high school — the high school
and the community \[college\] share a campus.  It was so great to see
that.  And students are enabled to enroll in a range of college programs
while still in high school.  I love seeing that.     
  
In Rolling Meadows, Illinois, again — (applause) — Joe –Mayor Joe Gallo
and I visited a high school where 95 percent of the students are on a
career path with the opportunity to earn college credit and intern with
local employers.   
  
In Valparaiso, Indiana, Mayor Matt — nobody is here from Indiana, I
guess — (laughter) — Mayor Matt Murphy and I heard from students at Ivy
Tech Community College who were preparing for jobs leading our clean
energy future in Northwest Indiana.  
  
And in Mayor Michelle Wu’s Boston — anybody here from Boston? —
(applause) — I saw a partnership between Bunker Hill Community College,
unions, and a local energy company where 9 out of 10 students are hired
when they complete the program.  (Applause.)   
  
I’m not done yet.   
  
Last month, Mayor John Giles invited me to Mesa Community College, where
students are getting great jobs in their area, with companies like
Intel.  (Applause.)   
  
(Laugh.)  They’re enthusiastic for a Monday, I’ll tell you. 
(Laughter.)  
  
So, for most people, a high school education alone isn’t enough to find
a great career.  But they often don’t need a four-year degree to pursue
their passions either.  (Applause.)     
  
Community colleges have always been about jobs.  And you know that
because many of you work with them.  So, maybe you’re wondering, like,
“Hey, Jill, so what’s new here?”   
  
Well, now we’ve added something else to the equation: President Biden —
my husband — and his administration are creating millions of jobs in
infrastructure, clean energy, and manufacturing.  (Applause.)   
  
And these positions pay well.  Most of the kids I saw that were getting
jobs were making more than I’m making.  (Laughter.)  
  
And many of them require associate degrees, certificates, or other
hands-on instruction, not four years of college.   
  
Still, a lot of high school students don’t necessarily know how to get
from earning their diplomas to earning a living.  They may not even
know, you know, even what roles are out there.  And that’s why career —
connected learning to careers is the heart of the Biden Education
Pathway.  
  
It starts with free, high-quality universal preschool –(applause) — yes,
thank you for that — and goes through to high school.  
  
It provides access to two years of affordable community colleges, and
then it connects to great jobs.   
  
And it’s the future of our workforce, how we grow the economy from the
bottom up and the middle out.  
  
And these aren’t red ideas or blue ideas; they’re American ideas. 
(Applause.)   
  
In a time when we sometimes struggle to find common ground, these
learning pathways bring us together.   
  
President Biden understands that.  It’s why he’s making community
college — colleges and career-connected learning top priorities in his
2024 budget.  
  
And for the next few weeks, our administration will be on an “Investing
in America” tour, and I’ll be highlighting workforce training programs. 
(Applause.)   
  
So, today, I want to ask all of you to reimagine what’s possible in your
communities.  You know your local economies — which industries are
growing or maybe need employees.  You know your schools and community
colleges.  Bring them all to the same table.  
  
Start college promise programs so that students can learn without going
into debt.  En- — (applause) — yes, I’m all for that.    
  
Encourage high schools to work with colleges so that every young person
in your city can take advantage of dual-enrollment options and get a
jumpstart on their degrees.  (Applause.)   
  
Work with local businesses and unions to create hands-on learning
experiences like registered apprenticeships.  (Applause.)   
  
You know how to get this done, but you don’t have to do it alone.  Joe
and his administration are with you.  And through the Biden Education
Pathway, we can fundamentally transform what it means to make a living
and make a life here in America.  
  
Thank you.  
  
                          END
