---
date: '2023-03-01'
modified_time: 2023-03-01 21:12:34-05:00
published_time: 2023-03-01 21:12:33-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/03/01/remarks-by-president-biden-at-the-house-democratic-caucus-issues-conference-2/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at the House Democratic Caucus Issues\_Conference"
---
 
Hyatt Regency Baltimore Inner Harbor  
Baltimore, Maryland

6:42 P.M. EST  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Hello, hello, hello!  (Applause.)  Good to see you all. 
And it’s good — it’s good to be almost home.  (Laughter.)   
  
Leader Jeffries, thank you for your partnership and your leadership. 
And, Pete, thanks for organizing this retreat and having me here.   
  
You know, she couldn’t be here tonight.  I know Whip Katherine Clark —
who I spoke to before I came up — is — is here in spirit.  
  
I also want to recognize the greatest Speaker in the history of the
United States of America — I think I coined that phrase, because it’s
true, because I worked with her for so long: Nancy Pelosi.  Nancy, stand
up.  (Applause.)   
  
All the years I was a senator — which were 270 — (laughter) — all those
years I was a senator, every time we needed to get something done on the
East Coast, I called Nancy.  She’s out in San Francisco.  But Nancy has
incredible, incredible power here in the East, particularly in Maryland,
particularly in Baltimore.  And so I — I just want to thank you for
everything you’ve done for me as well, Nancy.  
  
It’s great to be here with the incredible caucus, such a strong and
diverse group of leaders.  And it is strong and diverse.  
  
I ran for President — literally, not figuratively — to build the economy
from the middle out and the bottom up.  Not a joke.  I was so sick and
tired of talking about trickle-down economics.  
  
I know, in my household, not from far here — a little further north on
I-95, in Wilmington — not a whole lot trickled down on our kitchen
table.  No, I’m serious.  Not a — think about it.  Not a whole lot.   
  
But working together, we made historic progress toward that vision of
building from the middle out and the bottom up.  And the people in this
room are the reason for that.  
  
It’s been one of the most successful and united caucuses we have ever
seen.  And you all stick together, thank God.  
  
But look what’s already happened in all these off-year elections, these
state legislative races.   
  
And, by the way, we got a new congresswoman in Virginia.  (Applause.) 
But look — I can’t see, but I know you’re out there.   
  
Look, we stuck together.  We really did.  And it’s because of folks in
this room like — like Jim and Steny, who — who just have always been
there for all of us, no matter where —  
  
AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Yes.  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  No, I really mean it.  Been there for all of us.  By
sticking together, we got a lot done.  By sticking together, we’re back
in the House, and we’re going to finish the job.  
  
Look, let’s take a look at what we’ve done.  And some has already been
mentioned.   
  
You know, when we came in, the economy was in — in ruins.  We were — we
had so many lost jobs.  And it went beyond the pandemic; it started
before that.   
  
But we can see it in your districts.  Those 12 million new jobs, they’re
real jobs, man.  It means we created more jobs in two years than any
presidential term in American history.  (Applause.)  And not just
created, but you — you created it.  You did it.  
  
The unemployment rate at 3.4 percent, as I said, is a 50-year low.   
  
Eight hundred thousand manufacturing jobs.  Where the hell is it written
that we can’t lead the world in manufacturing again?  (Applause.)  I
don’t buy it.  I don’t buy it.  There’s no reason why we will not lead
the world in manufacturing again.  
  
The inflation has fallen seven straight months.  
  
Gas prices are down $1.65 since their peak, and we’re going to keep
pushing.  
  
Our economy is growing at a solid clip.  But it’s not an accident.  It’s
because we’ve all worked together, and we have worked together.  We’ve
worked tightly together.   
  
We passed the American Rescue Plan, which built out — a whole hell of a
lot of Republican governors, they still don’t even want to acknowledge
it.  But it doesn’t matter.  I said and you all said I didn’t run to be
President for all Democrats; I ran to be President for all Americans,
and regardless of whether — (applause) —  
  
But really and truly.  Think about it.  You saw the effects firsthand. 
We put cops back on the beat because they couldn’t afford — they didn’t
have the budget for pay for them.  Kept teachers in the classroom.  That
was — in each of your districts.  
  
In addition to that, we did so much more.  We passed the largest
investment in infrastructure since Eisenhower’s Interstate Highway
System.  
  
And we’re getting money out the door quickly.  Shovels in the ground,
cranes in the air.  
  
And, you know, as a matter of fact, right here in Baltimore, we’re going
to be rebuilding a tunnel I went through — you know, they told me I
traveled 1 million 200 thousand miles on Amtrak.  Well, I’m probably the
only guy who’s been through that Baltimore Tunnel.  Literally walked
through it.  Walked through it because it’s in such bad shape — about 15
years ago, when I was a U.S. senator, pushing.   
  
It’s a 100-year-old tunnel.  It’s going to change transportation not
only on the Northeast Corridor.  But instead of 30 miles an hour, it’s
going through there at 100 miles an hour.  And it’s a $4 billion
investment.  And guess what?  We’re going to let everybody know you did
it.  These are the signs we’re going to put up.   
  
(Holds up signs that reads “President Joe Biden.  Frederick Douglass
Tunnel.  Bipartisan Infrastructure Law.”)  (Applause.)   
  
We’re renaming it the Frederick Douglass Tunnel.  (Applause.)

Look, I was telling — I was telling the guys backstage, you know, if we
did nothing — nothing but implement what we’ve already passed and let
the people know who did it for them, we win.  But we’re way beyond
that.  It’s not just about winning.

You know, I’ve joined many of you on the groundbreakings over — there’s
over 2- — 20,000 projects already.  They’ve already been funded. 
Bridges that are a billion 200 million dol- — I mean, big, big, big
deals.   
  
And as I told my Republican friends, we’ll even do their districts too. 
(Laughter.)  And I’ll be there for the ribbon cutting.  (Laughter.)

But all kidding aside — look, we replaced the refl- — the Inflation
Reduction Act, we passed it, taking on powerful special interests,
cutting the costs for working families, and tackling the climate crisis.

There’s more than one way, by the way, to deal with inflation.  It’s not
just food and gas, which is critically important, and housing, but it’s
so many other things.

My dad used to say — no kidding — and Steny knew this; I think he even
knew my dad.  My dad used to say, “Joey…” — (laughter) — my — my dad was
around a long time.  It wasn’t that long ago.  (Laughter.)  Steny and I
have been partners for a long, long time.

I kid Steny.  I said, “He represents western Delaware and the Eastern
Shore.”  (Laughter.) 

But all kidding aside, you know, it’s just about, at the end of the
month, do you have anything left over after you pay all your bills?  Do
you have anything left over?  Do you have a little bit of breathing
room?

Well, that’s what we’ve been about.  There’s more than one way to deal
with family inflation, and that’s to deal with the things that
fundamentally affect their everyday cost, beyond the traditional
measures of inflation.

You know, by making a $369 billion investment, we’re moving in a
direction to fundamentally change the way in which — literally, to save
the planet.

In addition, we’re finally giving Medicare the power  
to negotiate lower drug prices, bringing down the cost of prescription
drugs.  (Applause.)

Nancy and I have been fighting to do that for years and years, and we
finally beat Big Pharma — (applause) — because we stuck together.  We
stuck together.

You know — and, by the way, this had a byprod- — you know, my — I love
your Republican colleagues you have to work with, the MAGA Republicans. 
They’re amazing.  (Laughter.)  They’re really amazing, their
calculations.  They say, “Biden and the Democrats, because they brought
down the price of drugs, they’re increasing inflation.”  (Laughter.)

Well, it has the advantage not only of people being able to live longer
and better and be able to afford their — their prescription drugs.  But
guess what?  It reduces the deficit $158 billion.  (Applause.)

Don’t forget that part, to tell people.  It’s not just that you pay less
for the drug, it means that the federal government isn’t paying for the
— the federal government is the one paying for those drugs for
Medicare.  Almost $160 billion saved, reduction of deficit.   
  
We passed the CHIPS and Science Act, which had led to a commitment of
over $300 billion in investments in manufacturing in the United
States.  
  
You know, when the Korean company — I sa- — I said — I was in Korea,
South Korea.  I asked them why were they investing in America.  You know
what they said?  For real.  The CEO.  “Because you have the best workers
in the world, and it’s the most secure investment I can make anywhere in
the world.”  (Applause.)  Don’t forget that, folks.

That’s why people are coming here.  They’re coming here because of who
we are.  We made it clear to folks: If you want to participate in the
CHIPS program, you also have to provide for childcare for your
employees.  (Applause.)  
  
It matters.  That is a government that saves money in the long run. 
That saves money.

And, folks, you all know how much we’ve gotten done.  But a lot of the
country still doesn’t know it.  That’s why the big job in front of us is
implementing the laws we’ve passed so people start to see it in their
lives — all the benefits that are there because you produced it for
them.  You stepped up and got it done.  
Remember, everybody told us there was no possibility of us doing these
things.  Remember that?  Everybody.  
  
You know, I promised to partner with you and coordinate with you to make
sure the implementation of these laws got done efficiently and
effectively and let the American people know who did it as they feel the
benefits of the investment.  You did it.  You tell us what you need to
help us understand the impact that it’s having on all of your district
and your — your — your folks.  You know, and we’re going to get it
done.  
  
That’s why I created the Invest in America Cabinet.  Took my Cabinet
members, all of them, and a subset that focused on just implementing
what we’re doing.  
  
Secretary of Commerce, Labor, Transportation, Treasury, Energy, Health
and Human Services, and Environmental Protection Agency.  They’re the
ones who are working together and meet regularly.  And I want them to
meet with your guys.  You put together a group, if I’m not mistaken,
Steny, to be able to work together, because we got to get it done.  
  
Plus, I hired two senior advisors, both of whom are pretty damn good:
Mitch Landrieu, the former mayor down in Louisiana, and John Podesta —
(applause) — in charge of carrying out the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law
and Inflation Reduction Act.  
  
They’ll be here tomorrow — both of them — and the bulk of my Cabinet
members to discuss with you exactly how we’re coordinating this.  And it
really is important how we do it.  And we get it out, and we get shovels
in the ground, we let people know what’s happening, and we change their
lives.  And they know it when they see it.  And they’ll see it, and
they’ll know why we did it.  
  
And we’re going to bring together every element of the federal
government to invest wisely and quickly.  In the process, they’ll
attract more private-sector investment as well to get the best possible
results for American workers and American families.  
  
And we’re going to let people know.  We’re going to get this done, and
we’re going to let them know though.  We’re going so far as to print
signs, as I indicated, that let people know what — who’s bringing you
this project, why it’s happening.  (Applause.)  
  
And, Steny, thanks for your — the work you’re doing and this
coordination as well.  We really have to — we just really have to make
this thing sing.   
  
Some of it’s happening already.  Factories are opening all across your
districts to build semiconductor chips, electric vehicles, advanced
battery technology because they’re going to power these vehicles.  And
that means more jobs — thousands and thousands of jobs.  
  
By the way, remember, when — I — you remember we all were talking — and
a lot of you, as well with me, going around and talking about how we
used to be the most advanced country in the world and investing in
science and research and development?  Well, we dropped to number
eight.  We used to be number one.  And that’s where this CHIPS and
Science Act comes in.   
  
There’s $300 billion in investment committed.  Three hundred billion. 
And you know what?  Like the plant outside of Columbus, Ohio, and that —
what I call the “fields of dreams.”  There are a thousand acres there. 
Intel is building a facility.  They’re going to spend a total of, I
believe, it’s 12 million bucks, or 13, I think it is — billion. 
Billion.   
  
And they’re going to build two fabs — they call them.  Factories.   
  
Well, guess what?  The prevailing wage for the 7,000 construction
workers is going to make a big difference because it generates a whole
different economy as well.  It’s there.  Number one.  
  
But number two, there’s jobs in the factories; they’re going to pay an
average of $130,000 a year.  And for the bulk of them, you don’t need a
college degree.  You don’t need a college degree.  (Applause.)  
  
And folks — folks might not know what the trench you’re digging around
your community is.  But we’re going to let them know ahead of time it’s
for broadband — high-speed broadband that’s affordable.  
  
And all that is going to create hundreds of thousands of good-paying
union jobs.  
  
And, by the way, I — I want to be clear: I make no excuses.  Some of you
maybe are uncomfortable by my talking about unions all the time.  Well,
I not only talk unions to union people.  I talk unions to the Business
Roundtable when I talk.  I talk unions for the — (applause) — for this
—   
  
Keep — keep this in mind.  You all know what I’ve been — I’ve been
saying to the unions.  It’s presumptuous of me to tell them what they
should do, but I’ve been telling them they should let people know what
it takes to become a union member.  
  
Everybody thinks you show up and say, “I want to be an electrician,” and
in six months you got a job as an electrician.  You’re talking about
four to five years of apprenticeship before you can get your card.  Four
to five years.  Every one of these unions — every one of them have
apprentice programs that range four to five years.  It’s like going back
to college.   
  
You get paid part of your salary, but you don’t get it all till you’re —
finish your apprenticeship and become a full-blown member.   
  
And I — what I said to the Business — I think it was the Business
Roundtable I was talking to in Washington.  And they asked why I was so
pro-union.  I said, “For you.  It’s cutting your cost.”  And they looked
at me: “How’s that happening?”  They happen to be the best trained
workers in the world.  That’s a fact.  (Applause.)  
  
And when the union plumber puts it in, it lasts.  It lasts.  
  
And so, folks, we shouldn’t be — we shouldn’t make any excuses.  It’s
going to save businesses money as well, and the American public.  
  
Now, seniors in districts are getting shingles vaccline \[sic\] —
vaccines for free now, having — because of you, instead of having to pay
100 bucks to go and get that shot.  
  
And, you know, when we took on Big Pharma, as you well know — you took
them on; you got beat up doing it too — so many of — so many.  Now, so
many people get insulin.  
  
But guess what?  Instead of four to five hundred bucks a month, they’re
going to pay $35 a month.  (Applause.)  
I called on the prescription drug companies to bring down the price of
insulin to $35 to everyone, not just seniors.  And today, Eli Lilly, the
largest manufacturer of insulin in the United States of America —
(applause) — agreed to do just that.  Thirty-five bucks.  
  
But guess what that means?  Every other company making insulin is going
to have to lower their prices to 35 because they can’t compete. 
(Applause.)  
  
Folks, look, you know, folks are going to understand what you’ve done,
and we’re going to make sure of it.  But as much as we’ve done, we have
a lot of unfinished business as well to finish the job that needs to be
done.  
  
We can’t stop working to restore the Child Tax Credit permanently. 
(Applause.)   
  
I know I ma- — make some of you uncomfortable, but that little state
above me, in Delaware, is one of the — has the highest rate — one of the
highest rates of gun ownership.  But guess what?  We’re going to ban
assault weapons again come hell or high water.  (Applause.)  And
high-capacity magazines.  (Applause.)  When we did it last time, it
reduced mass death.   
  
Nobody, including the people who make a very good salary, for example,
think the tax system is fair.  Go ask anybody.  Ask your friends or
acquaintances — they’re making 2-, 3-, 4-, or 500,000 bucks a year, “Is
it fair?”  They don’t think it’s fair!   
  
For example, when this administration started, there were a little under
— a little over 600 billionaires in America.  Now there are about 1,000
of them.  They should be paying a higher tax rate than a schoolteacher,
a police officer, someone who works as a nurse.  (Applause.)  It’s about
3 percent they’re paying.  
  
And, by the way, the reason we’re able to do all we did and still reduce
the debt 1.7 billion dollars — trillion dollars is a simple
proposition.  There were those five hu- — there were five hundred and, I
guess, thirty-five or fifty companies that made over half a billion
bucks here in the Fortune 500.  And guess what?  They paid zero in
federal taxes.  And we did an awful thing.  We said you’re going to have
to pay 15 percent.  God forgive me.  (Laughter.)  Fifteen percent.   
  
But every co- — fif- — a minimum 15 percent.  And that was enough to do
what we’ve done so far and still reduce the debt.  
  
There’s so much more to do, though.  We need to come together on police
reform and immigration reform.  (Applause.)   
  
We need to protect — we need to protect voting rights and the right to
choose.  (Applause.)  
  
Ladies and gentlemen, we got to reinstate Roe v. Wade and pass it
nationally.  (Applause.)  We really do.   
  
And, look, I know as well as you, the MAGA Republicans are not going to
get onboard for most of these things, but that leaves a lot of
Republicans that are still left.  (Laughter.)   
  
Oh, by the way, watch.  Watch.  I predict — watch.  Watch what happens. 
Republicans can help make a significant majority in some of these
things.  
  
You know, remember, when I ran for office, I said — when I announced, I
said I was doing it to restore the soul of America and bring back some
decency; build the middle class, the backbone of the country; and unite
the country.  And everybody said, “You’re never going to get anything
done bipartisanly.”  They told me you couldn’t get anything done in a
bipartisan way over the past two years.  But we did.  The infrastructure
bill.  The CHIPS and Science Act.  The PACT Act.  The gun safety.  The
Marriage Equality Act.  It — all bipartisan.  It’s hard as hell, I
acknowledge, but it’s there.  
  
And, you know, a little bit of more Marjorie Taylor Greene and a few
more, and you’re going to have a lot of Republicans running our way. 
(Laughter and applause.)  Isn’t she amazing?  (Laughter.)  Oof. 
(Laughter.)   
  
I was the reason — she was — she was very specific.  I shouldn’t
digress, probably.  She — (laughter) — I’ve read she was very specific
recently, saying that a mom — a poor mother who lost two kids to
fentanyl, that — that I killed her sons.  Well, the interesting thing is
that fentanyl they took came during the last administration. 
(Laughs.)   
  
Look, folks — anyway, I don’t want to get started.   
  
Look, so what we did in the past two years — whenever possible, we
should work on both sides of the aisle and get as much done as we can.
 We got to bring the country back together again.  
  
You know, there are areas where we should be able to agree, like
protecting Medicare and Social Security, cutting the deficit, paying
America’s bills.   
  
That’s why, during the State of the Union, I was pleased to see so many
Re- — Republicans stand up when I asked them to join us in rejecting
cuts to Social Security.  (Applause.) 

I’ve been to a lot of State of the Unions.  I never quite saw one like
that.  (Laughter.)  But they all stood up.

But the interesting thing is: They won’t be able to forget.  It was all
on the camera.  (Laughs.)  (Applause.)

But all kidding aside, it was amazing.

And then there’s Senator Rick Scott.  The guy who’s been saying for a
year he wants to cut Social Security and Medicare, and now says, “Never
mind.”  (Laughter.)  That’s what he’s saying.  And he says he actually
agreed with us all along.  He really didn’t mean what he’d been saying. 
(Laughter.)

Well, like I said, I believe in conversion.  (Laughter.)  Maybe they
found religion.  I sure hope so.  But I’ll believe it when I see it.

While Republicans talk about the deficit, we’re doing something about
it.  (Applause.)  Working with — really and truly.  I mean, if — if —
anyway.  (Laughter.)

Working with all of you, we cut the deficit by $1.7 <s>billion</s>
\[trillion\] in two years, the largest deficit reduction in American
history.   
  
AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Trillion!  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  And when I introduce my ne-

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Trillion!

THE PRESIDENT:  — and when I introduce my next budget, which is going to
be on the 9th — you’re all going to see it; we’ve been working with your
leaders on various aspects of it — we’re going to cut the deficit by
more than $2 trillion over the next 10 years.  (Applause.)

So, look, we’re not going to — we’re not going to sit here and be
lectured by those folks about fiscal responsibility. 

Nearly 25 percent of the entire national debt, which took over 200 years
to accumulate — nearly 25 percent was added by my predecessor in four
years.  Twenty-five percent of the 200-year debt.

When you add it all up, all the proposals our MAGA Republican friends
have offered so far, it would actually add another $3 trillion over the
debt over the next 10 years if they stick with what they saying.

So, folks, look, you know, they’re sure not acting like the party that
cares about fiscal responsibility.  Because the truth is, if you look at
their record, it’s clear they’re not the party who cares about fiscal
responsibility, especially not when they’re threatening our economic
recovery by manufacturing a crisis over whether we’re going to pay our
debts — our 200-year accumulated debt.

When I met with the new Speaker, it was a de- — it was a decent
meeting.  He seemed like a decent guy.  He made it real clear how he
wants to proceed.  He says he won’t raise taxes on anyone, on the
wealthy or big corporations.  He just wants to cut programs.

And what I suggested was, instead of making threats about the debt,
which would be catastrophic, let’s lay out — let’s just lay out our
budgets.

So I agreed that I’d lay down mine on March the 8th — March the 9th, I
should say — and he should do the same thing.  And we should sit down. 
It would be interesting to see what they want to cut and what their
numbers add up to.

Are they going to cut Medicaid?  Medicaid?  Are they going to —
Affordable Care Act?  Are they going to cut Medicare or veterans
benefits?  Aid to rural communities? 

Well, we’re going to see what they’re going to do.

But here’s how I see it: Under my predecessor, Republicans in Congress
voted three times to keep paying America’s bills without preconditions
and without a crisis.  They paid America’s bills then, so why won’t they
pay them now?

Well, they didn’t throw the country into a crisis then, and they
shouldn’t do it now.

If they wouldn’t inflict pain on the American people then, why would
they do it now?

Well, the answer is real simple: politics.  Politics.  But I’m not going
to — I’m not going to be part of it.

You know, they’ve got no business playing politics with people’s lives
and our economy.  Working with all of you, we’re not going to let them
either.

Look, the question that the MAGA Republicans have to answer is this: Are
they going to pay America’s bills that are already accumulated — not
what we’re proposing to spend; already accumulated — or are they not? 
Are they going to pay the debt or are they going to default?  It’s
pretty simple.

So let’s be real clear about one thing: There is no actual crisis here. 
This is entirely a crisis of their making, if it occurs.

Democrats believe in paying America’s bills, so the American people can
rest assured the Democrats will stick together on this.

And, folks, here’s the bottom line: Our plan is working.  It’s growing
the economy.  It’s reducing the deficit.  It’s fiscally responsible. 
But we’ve got more to do.  We made a lot of progress, but families
across the country are starting to breathe just a little bit easier, as
my dad would say.  Just a little easier.  We just got to keep going,
folks.  (Applause.)   
  
And, folks, working together, I know we will.  Again, to quote my dad,
he used to say, “Joey, a job is about a lot more than a paycheck.  It’s
about your dignity.  It’s about respect.  It’s about being able to look
your kid in the eye and say, ‘Honey, it’s going to be okay.’”

I’m not making it — that’s what he would actually say.

And we weren’t poor.  My dad was a middle-class wage earner.  He didn’t
go to college — his great regret — but he managed a dealership.  My dad
— we lived in a three-bedroom house.  And as they were — as things were
being — you know, suburbia was being filled in with new developments. 
We had four kids and a grandpop living with us.  We thought we were just
fine.

But my dad used to talk just about “a little bit of breathing room.”  A
little bit of breathing room.

Well, that’s what you’ve done.  You’ve provided breathing room to an
awful lot of people, like my dad and the house I grew up in.

So I want to thank you all.  And I really mean this from the bottom my
heart: Thank you for sticking together.  That is our answer.

Ladies and gentlemen, love you all.  Thank you very much.  (Applause.)

I’ll turn it back over to Leader Jeffries. 

7:10 P.M. EST  
