---
date: '2023-03-22'
modified_time: 2023-03-23 12:33:22-04:00
published_time: 2023-03-22 19:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/03/22/remarks-by-president-biden-vice-president-harris-first-lady-jill-biden-and-second-gentleman-douglas-emhoff-at-a-reception-to-celebrate-womens-history-month/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden, Vice President Harris, First Lady Jill\_Biden,\
  \ and Second Gentleman Douglas Emhoff at a Reception to Celebrate Women\u2019s History\_\
  Month"
---
 
East Room

5:14 P.M. EDT  
  
THE SECOND GENTLEMAN:  Good evening, everyone.   
  
AUDIENCE:  Good evening!  
  
Mr. President — (laughter) — First Lady Dr. Biden, thank you for hosting
all of us here at the White House.  (Applause.)  
  
And of course, my wife — (applause) — Vice President Kamala Harris is
here, the first woman Vice President!  (Applause.)  
  
All right.  We — this is a celebration.  And we’re here to celebrate
Women’s History Month, to highlight the accomplishments of women across
our nation, to pay tribute to the trailblazers who paved the way for
future generations.  
  
But it’s also our time to reaffirm our commitment to advancing rights
and opportunities for women and girls, not only here in the United
States, but all around the world.  (Applause.)  
  
I’ve had the honor, as Second Gentleman, of traveling all across the
country and all around the world, meeting with people right in their
communities.  
  
And throughout my travels, I have spoken to women who have shared their
stories with me.  
  
The mom who had to return to work just six days after giving birth.  
  
The woman who was paid less than her male colleague for doing the exact
same job.  
  
AUDIENCE:  Ooh —  
  
THE SECOND GENTLEMAN:  And a woman whose — (laughter) — I know, it’s not
good.  (Laughter.)  I know.   
  
A woman whose water broke prematurely and was denied due care due to a
state’s abortion ban.  And it wasn’t until she developed sepsis, an
infection that almost killed her, that the hospital finally treated
her.  
  
But I also hear some great stories.  I hear about how this amazing
Biden-Harris administration is ensuring that women have equal access to
opportunities — (applause) — and how this administration is protecting
fundamental rights.  
  
And let’s be clear: These aren’t just women’s issues.  These are issues
that impact everyone.  (Applause.)  
  
And we know — because we travel all over the world — that when the
United States leads, the world follows.  
  
So, at this moment — at this moment in history, I know that our nation
and our world are in very good hands because we have a President, a
First Lady, and a Vice President who are leading this fight with all of
you. (Applause.)  
  
Our First Lady, Dr. Jill Biden.  (Applause.)  There’s more!  (Laughs.) 
I don’t even have to say anything else.  We’re just going to cheer.  But
I will.  She’s traveled all around this country and all around the
world, including recently to Mexico and Africa, reminding young women
and girls that anything is possible.  And over these past two-plus
years, I’ve seen firsthand how she has advocated for women, families,
and our veterans.  
  
She’s empowered young women to pursue their dreams, to fulfill their
potential, and achieve their educational goals.  
  
So please join me in welcoming my dear friend, our amazing First Lady,
Dr. Jill Biden. (Applause.)  
  
THE FIRST LADY:  Thank you.  (Applause.)  Thank you.  Thank you, Doug. 
You know, your commitment to supporting women’s rights serves as such a
powerful example for our nation.  Thank you.  
  
And as I look at this room full of women who have led social change
movements and shattered glass ceilings, broken the barriers of
businesses and even our Earth’s atmosphere — (applause) — I am
inspired.  
  
This audience is a testament to how high women can rise.  A testament to
the progress we can make when we invest in women and believe in them,
when we work together to tear down the barriers that hold so many
back.  
  
And we must keep going, not just for ourselves, but for the girls who
will inherit our world.  (Applause.)  
  
The future engineer who loves exploring, who sees magic in the mechanics
and the technologies that connect us to each other but still isn’t sure
she should raise her hand in class.   
  
AUDIENCE MEMBERS:  We know.  
  
THE FIRST LADY:  See?  They all know.  (Laughter.)    
  
The — the future president or CEO who is told that, hey, her voice is
too loud or bold or “bossy.”  
  
The star who is told to hide her light.  The artist who feels like an
outcast.  
  
The girl who feels the smallness of her world closing in, afraid that
her dreams are just too big to carry alone.  
  
Again and again and again, they wake up and worry that this world is
maybe made for someone else.  They wonder if they will ever be good
enough, strong enough, or worthy of the lives they dream about.  
  
There are those who continue to ask our daughters to shrink.  
  
Those who are pulling away the hard-won progress that we’ve made, that
our mothers made and their mothers before them.  We find ourselves
refighting battles we thought we had won a long time ago.  (Applause.)  
  
Equality, justice, freedom for all — these are the flames we must feed
with our voices and our vigilance.  Because the fight for women’s
equality should have an end.  (Applause.)   
  
Every little girl must know that she belongs in all places of power,
that her boldness is beautiful, that her body is her own — (applause) —
that her future can be anything she wants it to be.  
  
And every little boy must know that caring, collaboration, and kindness
are signs of strength, not weakness — (applause) — that he can feed and
teach and mentor; that this is his fight too.  (Applause.)   
  
We need more men to hold each other accountable when women are being
hurt or left behind.  
  
Together, we will build a world worthy of that generation.  
  
So to every little girl who has ever wondered, “Can I — one person, one
voice, one girl — can I make a difference?”   
  
AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Yes, we can.  
  
THE FIRST LADY:  Standing among — (laughter) — standing here among women
who have shaped our laws and become leaders in the military, who have
organized movements for justice and inspired change, who have brought
poetry and art and stories into our lives, we have the answer for those
girls: Yes, you matter!  (Applause.)   
  
Yes, you can make a difference.  Yes, you too can write our history and
change our country.  
  
Today, as we celebrate Women’s History Month, let us celebrate you and
all women who with sweat and sacrifice have shaped this country we call
home.  
  
Let us draw strength from those who came before and share that strength,
that sisterhood that surround us.  
  
Let our voices be the chorus that calls the next generation forward,
that kindles their courage and cheers them on to carve a path of their
own.  
  
Let us work with clarity and persistence, with hope in our hearts to
continue building the world that our daughters and all children
deserve.  
  
Thank you.  (Applause.)  Thank you.  (Applause.)  Thank you very much.  
  
And now — and now it is my pleasure to introduce Vice President Kamala
Harris — (applause) — the first woman to hold her office, but certainly
not the last.  (Applause.)   
  
Kamala, your strength is an inspiration to women and girls across our
country.  Thank you for helping to build a world where our girls can not
only strive, but lead and thrive.   
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  That’s right.  
  
THE FIRST LADY:  Kamala.  (Applause.)  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  That’s why she’s the First Lady.  (Laughter.)   
  
Dr. Jill Biden, I want to thank you for that extraordinary speech and
for the introduction and the friendship.  You have been — you know, I
see — and Doug and I see the President and Dr. Biden when the cameras
are here and when the cameras aren’t.  And I will speak of the First
Lady to say she is tireless.  
  
She is a full-time educator, and she travels around the world,
literally, representing our country and upholding the values that we
hold dear for the world to see.  And I thank you for that —  
  
THE FIRST LADY:  Thanks.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — and your friendship.   
  
THE FIRST LADY:  Thank you.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you so very much and for that introduction. 
(Applause.)  Thank you.  Thank you.   
  
And thank you also to President Biden.  (Laughter.)  You can judge a
strong man when he has strong women around him.  (Laughter and
applause.)    
  
And the first Second Gentleman of the United States of America. 
(Applause.)  
  
So, it is good to see everyone.  What an extraordinary thing my eyes
behold looking out here.   
  
We have leaders in the United States Congress who are here.  Of course,
Speaker Emerita Nancy Pelosi among them.  (Applause.)  
  
But so many leaders who are here, and among these, the young leaders who
are on the stage behind me.  (Applause.)  A lot to applaud.  A lot to
applaud.     
  
So during Women’s History Month, we celebrate and we honor the women who
made history throughout history, who saw what could be unburdened by
what had been.  
  
We see the suffragists, the riveters, the marchers; the mothers and
sisters and aunts and grandmothers and daughters — all the giants upon
whose broad shoulders we stand.  
  
For generations, women have continued to make incredible progress in the
classroom, in the workplace, in the halls of government.  And we are all
here evidence of that progress.  
  
And we know our fight is far from over.  
  
Like many of you, I have spent the majority of my career fighting to
uplift the condition of women and girls in our country — to fight for
their health, their safety, and wellbeing.  
  
And therefore, I know from experience that there are many factors that
impact a woman’s ability to survive and thrive in America.  And one of
those factors is the economic empowerment of women.  
  
I don’t need to tell anybody here, when we improve the economic status
of women, we improve the economic status of families, communities, and
our entire nation benefits.   
  
When women are economically empowered, communities are healthier,
because, of course, for example, families can afford medical care for a
young child or an aging parent.   
  
And when women are economically empowered, communities are safer.  And I
say that as a former courtroom prosecutor, elected district attorney,
and attorney general.  
  
You see, in that career, I focused on crimes of violence against women
and children.  And there is so much that we need to do still to prevent
violence and keep women safe, including to understand the link between
economic security and public safety.  
  
You know, a lot of people around here are talking about the importance
of public safety, and we all know how important that is.  But understand
the connections between the issues.  Understand that too often, for
example, we see women who are facing violence because they simply cannot
financially afford to leave an abusive situation, especially when her
highest priority will always be to keep a roof over her children’s head
or food on their table.  
  
So here’s the deal: Anybody who says they support public safety and
public health must also support women’s economic security and wellbeing
— (applause) — and must necessarily, if they say they stand for those
priorities, stand with President Biden and me when we continue, with
your help, to fight for things like affordable childcare for all
parents.  (Applause.)  When we fight for good jobs with paid family and
medical leave.  (Applause.)  When we fight for pay equity and access to
capital for all people — (applause) — including for women entrepreneurs
and small-business owners.  
  
These are the connections that one must see and make if they truly
believe in contributing to the strength, the wellbeing, and the safety
of all Americans.   
  
And ultimately, the priority of women’s economic empowerment then is
rooted in core economic principles that include basic American values,
specifically the ideal of freedom.  Not just freedom from violence or
want, but freedom to dream with ambition and aspiration.  The freedom to
determine one’s own future, including the fundamental freedom of every
woman — not her government — to make decisions about her own body. 
(Applause.)  
  
All these issues are connected.  All these issues are connected when we
talk about the importance of freedom.  
  
So I’ll conclude with this: You all have heard many times me talk about
my mother.  My niece is here, my mother’s granddaughter.   
  
And my mother, your grandma — (laughter) — had many sayings.  And often
she would say to me, “Kamala, you may be the first to do many things,
but make sure you are not the last.”  (Applause.)  
  
Well, in this incredible room there are so many firsts.  Far too many to
name.  And I see so many of you.   
  
And that, as we know, is our charge then.  As the First Lady said, we
will make sure that none of us are the last.  And that will be a measure
of our legacy and this moment, which is to keep the path open and ensure
that we make it bigger and wider for all those who follow.  
  
And no one fights harder to build a better future for our nation and to
lift up women and girls around our country and to secure their basic
rights and freedoms than our President, the President of the United
States of America, Joe Biden.  (Applause.)  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.  Thank you, Kamala.  I appreciate that.   
  
And Madam First Lady — this is a woman who, six years ago, said, “I
don’t want to speak in front of big crowds.”  (Laughter.)  I — (laughs)
—   
  
You know, our outstanding Vice President, you’ve — you’ve shattered so
many barriers and did it mostly on your own.   
  
You know, San Francisco, first woman district attorney.  California’s
first wil- — woman attorney general.  
  
Doug, you have had such an incredible partner in this historic
progress.  And you’ve been one hell of a partner as well.  I’ve watched
you.   
  
We were talking inside.  Jill has — and I think I told Nancy this
before.  Jill has — puts messages on my mirror, where I’m shaving, so I
make sure I see them.  (Laughter.)  And one that was put in about a year
ago was, “Stop trying to make me love you.”  (Laughter.)   
  
What the hell.  I’m —  
  
THE FIRST LADY:  Thank you, Nancy.   
  
THE PRESIDENT:  I’m still trying like hell.  (Laughter.)   
  
We were really talking about that.  (Laughter.)  
  
I want to welcome over 30 members of the United States Congress,
senators and House members.  Raise your hand.  (Applause.)  Thank you,
thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you.  
  
You’re changing the world.  The idea — what we got passed wouldn’t have
been able to been done without this number of women in the s- — in the
Congress and Senate.  Wouldn’t have happened.   
  
And good evening, everyone.  As I’ve said earlier, I’m Jill Biden’s
husband.  (Laughter.)  And I’m especially proud today to say that — and
to mark Women’s History Month.  
  
This is a time for celebrating extraordinary women who have made their
mark in history, strengthened our nation.  
  
And like Jill, the first lady — the first full-time lady — the first
lady who works full time — (laughter) — in addition to being the First
Lady — as a professor.  She teaches — still teaches 15 credits and as a
community college.   
  
They’re like — (applause) — and like Kamala and the record number of
women serving in the first gender equality Cabinet in American
history.  
  
You know, we represent a rich diversity in our nation.  And like Nancy
Pelosi — I think, by the way — I’ve said this before — she’s the
greatest Speaker the House has ever had.  (Applause.)  No, I mean it.   
  
Well, we’ve — I’ve made a commitment that when we got elected, that this
administration was going to look like America.  Look like America. 
(Applause.)  Well, I really mean it, because it matters a lot to all the
people who look like us, look like each of you.  
  
I also appointed — I’ve appointed more Black women to the federal court
and circuit courts than all — (applause) — than — than — than every
other President combined, including the first Black woman to the Supreme
Court — (applause) — Justice Ketanji Brown Jackson.  
  
But we also know that, too often, history has failed to acknowledge the
massive contributions of women of every race, ethnicity, faith, and
background.  
  
Today, we celebrate both the legacy of both sung and unsung trail- —
trailblazers, advocates who have made the world a fairer, more just and
free place.  That includes many of you here today, including the high
school and college graduates standing behind me here.  (Applause.)   
  
Excuse my back.     
  
You’re going to do some amazing things.  You’re going to do some amazing
things.   
  
Like, you know, Temple Lester, high school sophomore, over here we met. 
(Applause.)  She’s 16 years old, one of TIME Magazine’s Top 50 Kids of
the Year.  She’s working to get her peers, especially girls, interested
in science, technology, engineering, and math.  (Applause.)  
  
All these students are incredible.   
  
And earlier this month, on International Women’s Day, Jill hosted the
International Women of Courage Award to honor fearless women fighting
all around the world for justice, often in incredibly dangerous
situations.  
  
And here at home, women are on the frontlines, driving innovation in
science and technology, protecting our — members of our military,
leading and being leaders in our military.   
  
I’ve appointed more career officers to high positions than anyone ever
has.  But guess — (applause) — no, I really —  
  
Leading in every field: in healthcare, business, diplomacy, so much
more.  
  
Look, we have to do everything we can to knock down the barriers that
stand in the way of all women and girls having an opportunity to be
their God- — realize all their God-given potential.  
  
You know, the country founded on freedom and equality.  Nothing is more
fundamental than that.  Nothing.     
  
That’s why my administration put equality of women and girls at the
heart of everything we do.  
  
Shortly after I took office, I created a White House Policy — a Gender
Policy Council — (applause) — well — to advance gender policy across
domestic and foreign policy.  
  
And now, we’re implementing a major piece of legislation, which we
signed into law during the past two years.  So many of them, including —
would not have occurred without the members of the Congress standing
before me here who worked so hard to pass them.  Not a joke.   
  
And as we implement these, we’re ensuring that women are fully at the
table.  
  
You know, with the economy reeling and families hurting from COVID, I
signed the American Rescue Plan as soon as I took office.  (Applause.) 
Well, it powered the strongest, more equitable job creation at any point
in any administration’s history and created more jobs — 12 million — in
the first two years than any administration did in four years.  And a
majority of those people are women hired.  (Applause.)  A majority of
that 12 million are women.  Factually.  
  
It helped keep the doors open to 220,000 childcare centers, 90 percent
of which are owned and staffed by women, so families could take care of
their children and go to work.   
  
And my Child Tax Credit cut child poverty in half and provided —
(applause) — and provided breathing room for 65 million children and
their families.  
  
And it didn’t stop there.  
  
From the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law — rebuilding our roads, bridges,
water systems, high-speed Internet all across America — to the CHIPS and
Science Act restoring America’s technological edge.  
  
And for the first time, firms receiving significant federal dollars are
going to be asked to make sure they have high-quality childcare
available.  (Applause.)  Oh — they’ve been asked very politely, but
we’re insisting.  And we’re going to get — and so le- — so women can get
and keep these good jobs.   
  
The Inflation Reduction Act, the country’s biggest investment in climate
ever — actually, anywhere in history.  
  
And across all of these laws, we’re making sure that women have access
to new jobs in sectors that have been historically underrepresented,
from manufacturing, to construction, to clean energy.  
  
I have said I was going to be the pro-union President in American
history.  But guess what?  (Applause.)  I’m insisting that they
significantly increase the number of women in unions across America. 
(Applause.)  And they’re doing it.  They’re doing it.  
  
Look, you all are more than 50 percent — you all are more than 50
percent of the population.  If we want the strongest economy in the
world, we can’t have half the workforce left behind.  It’s simply — it’s
that simple.  
  
And that’s why I signed legislation requiring employers to make
reasonable accommodations in the workplaces for pregnant women and
nursing moms so they can keep their jobs in place.  (Applause.)  
  
That’s why we launched the Blueprint for <s>Mental</s> \[Maternal\]
Health to combat the crisis of maternity mortality and overwhelmingly
impacts on Black and Native women and rural communities.  
  
And that’s why we made historic investments to make childcare more
affordable for families.  It — all this matters.  It matters.   
  
And, you know, while we commit to women’s economic security, we have to
ensure their physical security as well.  
  
Ending violence against women has been a — some of you been — none of
you have been around as long as I have, but — (laughter) — but it’s
really been the cause of my life.  
  
You know, I literally, as my sister would say, I wrote the Violence
Against Women Act with my own paw.  (Applause.)  
  
We — because we have to not only change the law, but change the culture
around the scourge of domestic violence in America.  
  
And as President, I helped so many advocates that are — in this —
there’s so many of you in this room who have strengthened and
reauthorized that legislation.   
  
You know, we have brought our total investment to $700 million in 2023
alone — just for Violence Against Women \[Act\].   
  
That’s the highest funding increase in the law in nearly 30 years.  It
improves training for law enforcement, including online abuse and
harassment; reduces the backlog of rape kits; expands legal and hou- —
legal and housing assistance to victims; improves protection for the
underserved communities, including Black, Latina, brown, and Asian
American, Native Americans, Hawa- — Pacific Islanders, LGBTQ
survivors.  
  
And we’ve stood up against the scourge of anti-Asian hate that has
festered in this country for too long and the violence that
disproportionately impacts on Asian American women.

You know — (applause) — but this builds on other steps you’ve taken and
we’ve taken, like the most significant gun safety law in 30 years to
help keep guns out of the hands of — (applause) — to help keep guns out
of the hands <s>of domestic political advisors</s> \[convicted domestic
abusers\].   
  
But we still have to ban assault weapons again.  (Applause.)  
  
Like signing a law that empowers survivors in the workplace to take
their case to court and hold offenders accountable; creating reforms
that fundamentally shift how the military investigates and prosecutes
sexual assault and domestic violence in the military, including
independent prosecutors who now report outside the military officer —
(applause) — command structure.  
  
That wouldn’t have happened without you guys.  Been talking about that a
long time.  It wouldn’t have happened.

But for all the progress we’ve made, we have a lot more work to do.  
  
Here at home, an extreme Supreme Court stripped away a fundamental
freedom that existed for half a century.  
  
We got to continue to fight to protect a woman’s fundamental right to
make decisions about her own body.  
  
I th- — and I want to, in front of all of you, thank Kamala, which I do
privately, for leading the fight to protect women’s reproductive
health.  (Applause.)  Thank you again.  (Applause.)

And I said — as I said in the State of the Union, we got to finish the
job —

AUDIENCE:  Yes!

THE PRESIDENT:  — by investing in child and elder care, by passing a
national program to — paid family leave and medical leave.  (Applause.)
   
  
No American should have to choose between a paycheck and taking care of
a loved one, taking care of themselves.  
  
We have to stand together in the rising tide of hateful laws targeting
transgender women and girls.  (Applause.)  And that’s why I continue to
call on Congress: Pass the bipartisan Equality Act.  (Applause.)  Pass
it now.  
  
And, look, we ha- — we have to stand up for women worldwide.  
  
You know, I issued a Presidential Memorandum on Conflict-Related Sexual
Violence as rape continues to be used as a weapon of war in Ukraine, by
the Russians, and elsewhere.  
  
We stand with the women of Iran and Afghanistan, who are facing down
violence and domestic — and — and their — their basic human rights are
being ripped.  
  
The budget I laid out two weeks ago includes more than $3 billion — a
record amount — to advance gender equality globally, not just at home. 
(Applause.)  
  
History tells us again and again, when women are safe and free and
treated like equal human beings, the whole world is better off.  The
whole wor- — it’s — it’s just a fact.  We don’t even talk about it, but
it’s true.

I want to close with this.  If you go downstairs, you’ll see a display
of a gre- — the great Shirley Chisholm, who I knew and served with —
(applause) — the first Black woman to serve in Congress.  
  
She said women developed special leadership qualities through their
reservoir of experience like patience, tolerance, and perseverance, and
she went on to say, and I quote, to “help our society become the kind of
society it must be.”  
  
Well, today, we honor generations of female visionaries, known and
unknown, on whose shoulders we all stand.  
  
We celebrate all of you — all of you — who push the country forward
every single day, and don’t yield, to bring us closer to that sacred
American ideal.

We’re the most unique country in the world.  We’re the only country
based on an idea.  Other countries are based on ethnicity, geography,
other re- — but we — we are based on one notion.  We haven’t fully lived
up to it, but we’ve never abandoned it: “We hold these truths to be
self-evident that all men and women are created equal…endowed by their
Creator with certain unalienable rights…life, li-…”  That’s the basis
upon which we exist as a country.

And look — and we have to recommit to the work ahead to deliver a better
future for our nation’s daughters until they know that, in America,
there is no limit to how high their dreams and talents can carry them;
until society becomes what it must be, worthy of the abilities and
ambitions of all our women and girls.

Until then, we’re never going to be who we should be.

On behalf of a grateful nation, thank you for the courage and service
and the sacrifice you’ve all exercised.  And I really mean it.

I look out here and I see a lot of the women members of Congress that
I’ve come to know over the years and campaigned with and for.  They won
in spite of the fact I came and campaigned for them.  (Laughter.)

But all kidding aside, I mean, you know, I wish people understood just
what you’ve all gone through.  What — I mean, it — it just all — so much
of it the humiliation you’ve had to face, and you still stood up.  I’ve
watched you do it.  I’ve watched you do it.

So, folks, I’m convinced we’re at an inflection point in history.  I
really mean it.  I think what we do over the next two, three, four, five
years is going to set the tone for the country and, I would argue, the
world for the next four or five decades.

It comes along every four or five generations.  But because of you,
we’re reaching a critical mass here.  And I really, really am thankful
that my daughter is a social worker and — guess what? — building
domestic violence shelters for women.  She’s a —

This — you know — I — it’s contagious, what we can do. 

So, thank you, thank you, thank you.  And happy Women’s History Month. 
(Applause.)

5:50 P.M. EDT  
