---
date: '2023-03-15'
modified_time: 2023-03-17 10:06:04-04:00
published_time: 2023-03-15 18:00:33-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/03/15/remarks-by-president-biden-on-lowering-prescription-drugs-costs/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on Lowering Prescription Drugs\_Costs"
---
 
  
University of Nevada-Las Vegas  
Las Vegas, Nevada

12:07 P.M. PDT

THE PRESIDENT:  Is there a doctor?  Is there a doctor in the house? 
(Laughter.)  Are there nurses in the house?  (Applause.)  Where are the
nurses?

Now, look, I’ve been a significant consumer of healthcare — my family
has.  Doctors let you live.  Nurses, male or female, make you want to
live.  (Laughter.)  No, I’m serious.  The single most underrated
profession in America are nurses.  (Applause.)  Nurses.  I mean it.

Let me begin by — by thanking the president of this great university of
allowing me to —

Oh, take a seat if you have one.  (Laughter.) 

Professor Whitfield, thank you ver- — president.  He’s a professor as
well, but thank you for allowing me back on campus.  I have gotten no
additional degrees lately, but thank you for letting me be here.

And, David, thanks for that introduction.  (Applause.)  You know — I
really mean it.  It makes a difference in people’s lives what we’re
doing and what you all are supporting.

And Dina Titus and Steve Horsford, two of the best members of the
Congress that I’ve ever worked with.  (Applause.)  There you are. 

And we have the attorney general here too.  (Applause.)

Folks, you know — Aaron and state and local, Tribal leaders are here. 
Will the Tribal leaders stand up?  Because I don’t know how many are
here.  Because — (applause) — there you go, Chief.  Good to see you,
man.

And, by the way, it’s Indian Nations.  Indian Nations.

And I’m here to today to talk about an issue affecting every single
American: your healthcare.

And I want to first thank the healthcare workers in this room.  In the
best of times — (applause) — I really mean it — in the best of times,
you do the Lord’s work, but over the last three years during the
pandemic, you’ve literally risked your lives for the rest of us. 
Healthcare workers that put their lives on the line.  And it matters. 
And it really, really matters.

And I think the American public is beginning to understand just how
consequential you are.

They’re used to going to the doc, but they’re not used to the doc going
into a tough area to take care of them.

And we lost a million people, and we could have lost a lot fewer if we
started earlier — not because of the docs’ decisions but because of
other decisions made.

Oh, wow, I didn’t see you all up there.  (Applause.)  (Looks up at
audience in the balcony.)  Holy mackerel.  Don’t jump!  (Laughter.) 
Don’t — (laughs) —

Well, all Americans deserve peace of mind that if the illness strikes or
they have — an accident occurs in their family, they can get the care
they need but they can afford the care they need.

But the truth is: Too many folks lie in bed at night staring at the
ceiling wondering what they would do if something happened — if their
spouse got a serious illness or if they got very sick, or if their child
got sick, if something happens to them.

You know, I remember, we lived in a — I was raised in a normal
middle-class home back in Delaware, a three-bedroom house with four kids
and a — and a grandpop living with us, a split-level home.  And my
bedroom was next to my mom and dad’s.  My — me and my three brothers, we
had two sets of bunks.  And you could tell when dad was restless.

I remember one night — true story — one night, my dad — I could feel
like he was rolling in bed because of the headboard would hit the side
of the wall.  And the next morning, I asked my — this is the God’s truth
— I asked my mom.  I said — I was in, I think — a junior in high
school.  I said, “What’s the matter with dad?”  She said, “He just — we
just lost our insurance.  His business is no longer going to cover
insurance for their employees.” 

It was a consequential decision.  It affected my dad and would have
affected — if any one of us had gotten really sick, what happens?  Do
you have to sell the house?  Do you have to make some kind of sacrifice
that exceeds what is actually reasonable?

And it’s about your dignity.  You know, do you have enough insurance? 
Can you afford these medical bills?  Can you get — if it gets bad
enough, do you have to do something drastic in order to pay for it?

And for seniors on fixed income who often need expensive medications to
stay healthy, the constant question is: Can they pay for their
medications?  Can they pay the bills without — without giving up the
important elements of their lives?

Because the bottom line is: At the end of the month, do you have enough
to pay all that you need and take care of the exigencies that occur?

And it’s not just the elderly.  It’s almost every family out there. 
It’s not just your health.  It’s about your dignity.  It’s about your
security. 

That’s why my administration is focusing intensely — intensely on
getting more people affordable healthcare by lowering prescription drug
costs and giving families just a little bit — as my dad would say, just
a little bit of breathing room.

We passed the historic laws to get that done.  And now we’re moving
quickly to implement those laws so people can feel the effects of what
we did.  We passed them last year, but they didn’t take effect until
January.

The first thing we did was to help people who were truly struggling to
gain access to affordable healthcare through the Affordable Health Care
Act, and that — or better known as Obamacare.

I signed a Rescue Plan that increased the coverage and lowered prices
for affordable healthcare, saving millions of people about $800 a year. 
My new budget — (applause) — and my new budget for this year makes that
permanent.

Almost 100,000 Nevadans get their healthcare through the Affordable
Health Care Act.  And 300,000 have coverage because of expanded Medicaid
under the Affordable Health Care Act.

Unfortunately, my MAGA — and, by the way, I mean it sincerely — this is
not a broad criticism of all Republicans.  This is not your father’s
Republican Party.  This is a different breed of cat now that’s in
charge. 

No, but I — but think — think about it.  You know, I knew a lot of good
Republicans who represented this state as senators.  They were friends. 
We disagreed.  But they had — they were conversative Republicans.  But
these MAGA Republicans, they’re a different — they’re just different. 
They continue to be determined to repeal the Affordable Care Act.

And, you know, it’s hard to believe, but they’ve already voted to change
or get rid of the Affordable Care Act, since it passed, 50 times —
five-zero.  They failed every time.

And the one thing I want you to know about the Affordable Care Act is
that — the way for people who have pre-existing conditions to get
healthcare.  If you have a pre-existing condition and you can’t afford
your healthcare — private plans, you do not get coverage anywhere.  And
this is the only outfit — if, in fact, you do away with the Affordable
Care Act — if you have — if you have a pre-existing condition, you don’t
get coverage otherwise.

If MAGA Republicans had their way, as many as 100 million people with
pre-existing conditions would lose their protection.  That’s a fact.

And, folks, look, the Affordable Health Care Act is also a means by
which millions of hardworking Americans have access to preventative care
like cancer screenings.  

MAGA Republicans put that at risk as well.  And nearly 40 million
Americans would be in danger of losing coverage completely if they were
to succeed.

We’re making healthcare more affordable in other ways as well.

Last year, I proposed a piece of legislation called the Inflation
Reduction Act, which I could — we got — (applause) — we got a lot of
things done bipartisanly.  This one was — there was not any support on
the other team at all.

But the result of the law is that seniors on Medicare get common
vaccines for things like tetanus, whooping cough, shingles — they get
them for free now.  It used to cost them up to $200 per shot, average
$100 per shot.

The new data released today shows that if our plan had been in place in
2021, three-point-mil- — 3.4 million seniors, including 24,000 Nevada
seniors, would’ve saved an average of $70.

You know, America spends more on prescription drugs than any advanced
nation on Earth — more than any advanced nation on Earth.  You name the
drug you have to take, and I can take you to France and get it to you a
hell of a lot cheaper — to Canada, England, throughout Europe.  It’s not
fair.

But after decades of trying to take on Big Pharma, we finally, finally
won.

Now, instead of paying whatever the drug company wants to charge you,
Medicare — Medicare will be able to negotiate prices.  Medicare provides
— (applause) — we’ll drive down prices because we give Medicare the
power — the same power that the Department of Veterans Affairs has. 
They can negotiate what they’re going to pay for whatever drugs they’re
prescribing to their — to the military.

Well, I know many of you are healthcare professionals.  You understand
this better than anybody else. 

For example, insulin was invented 100 years ago.  And the guy who
invented it decided not to patent it because he wanted it to be
available.  It only costs $10 a vial to make — $10 a vial.  If you count
everything, you expand it, you could say — you get up to 13 bucks if you
talk about packaging, shipping, and the rest.  And guess what?  They’re
being charged hundreds of dollars a vial.

So, beginning January 1st of this year, even though we passed the law
last year — it wasn’t until January 1st — I kept telling people it was
coming — we capped the cost of insulin at $35 — (applause) — $35 for
seniors on Medicare. 

And, folks, if it had been in effect in 2020, nearly 11,000 Nevada
seniors would’ve saved an average of $439 on their insulin. 

But I’ve been calling on my colleagues to cap the cost, though, for
everyone, you know, including 200,000 children who have Type 1 diabetes
who need insulin every day to stay alive. 

I was doing a townhall meeting in Northern Virginia last year, and a
woman stood up — a very sophisticated lady — and she said, “I have two
girls.  They both have Type 1 diabetes.”  And she said, “And I can’t
afford — I can’t afford it.  So what we have to do — we have to ration
the insulin between them.”  Talk about being deprived of your dignity.

Imagine looking at your child knowing if they don’t get the insulin,
their life is literally in danger.  And you’ve got to stand there and
not know what to do.

Folks, my budget is going to require it. 

And guess what?  The good news is that Eli Lilly, the biggest insulin
maker in the United States of America, announced that they’re going to
answer my call and they’re going to make the — this insulin available to
everyone in America for $35.  (Applause.)

And, yesterday, <s>Novodisk</s> \[Novo Nordisk\], another drugmaker,
announced they’re cutting their price of insulin as well.  (Applause.)

Look, folks, another aspect of the Inflation Reduction Act — and it’s a
fancy-sounding phrase, but is — the drug companies that raise prices
faster than — faster than inflation have to pay back the difference to
Medicare.

So, if they’re raising the price on insulin — and Medicare — and you
have the circumstance where the inflation is up 4 percent and they
increase it 12 percent or 15 percent, they have to pay the difference to
Medicare.

Yesterday I learned that, last quarter, drug companies hiked the prices
for 27 drugs that are on the market above the new limit.  Now those
manufacturers are going to have to pay the difference back to Medicare.

As a result, the Department of Health and Human Services estimates this
will make — co-pays for those drugs will be as much as $390 cheaper for
seniors.

Look, it’s going to change the way drugs are priced, lower the costs for
seniors long-term.

And it’s equally consequential to me that, as many of you in this room
know, we’re capping out-of-pocket drug expenses for seniors on Medicare
at a maximum of $2,000 a year, beginning next year.

Now, but right now — (applause) — right now, we have — regardless of how
much they cumulatively are paying for all of the drugs they need.

And now it’s capped at — because I’ve been — my family has been deeply
involved, as a consequence of cancer and my son dying of Stage — my son
dying of Stage 3 glioblastoma because he was exposed to those burn pits
for a year in Iraq.  And my fa- —

    Anyway, you all — how many here have had you or a family member be
diagnosed with cancer?  Raise your hand.  It’s probably, as the docs
know, the most devastating word they can tell a patient.  You got a
serious heart disease, you may die; that’s worrisome.  More people die
of heart disease than they do from cancer.  But cancer scares the living
hell out of every single person.

Well, folks, you know, a lot of those drugs now that are available, that
are very helpful — and, by the way, I — I’ve declared war on — on
cancer.  We’ve set up — (applause) — no, I really have.  I’ve gotten $5
billion for cancer research through NIH, like we did through the Defense
Department for special weapons systems — the same system. 

But here’s the deal: Some people are paying about 10,000, 12-, 14,000
dollars a year for expensive treatments like cancer drugs.  It’s going
to give seniors certain peace of mind, because no matter how much they
pay — no matter how much they pay, they’re not going to — how much the
bills are, they’ll never have to pay more than $2,000 a year for all the
drugs they consume.  It changes the peace of mind people have. 

And guess what?  It’s going to save seniors money.  It’s also going to
save the government money.  And my Republican friends say, “When are you
going to cut taxes for the wealthy?”  I said, “No, I got a better way of
saving money.”  (Laughter.)  Not a joke.  If, in fact, you limit the
amount of money that can be charged to reasonable prices by the drug
companies, you know how much we’ll save this year?  $160 billion. 
(Applause.)  $160 billion.  Why?  Because it’s $160 billion less they
have to pay out to provide the drugs for the seniors.  So it’s not only
the right thing to do, it is a conservative thing to do in terms of
cutting the federal budget. 

But here’s the deal.  As I’ve said, this is not your father’s Republican
Party.  The MAGA Republicans in Congress don’t think any of this is a
good idea.  They think Big Pharma should be able to make the exorbitant
profits, at the expense of the American people, they’ve been making. 

And I want to repeal the — they want to repeal the Inflation Reduction
Act, roll back savings for seniors, add to the deficit another $1.6
billion, and continue to line the pockets of Big Pharma. 

Look, I’m a capitalist.  I want — if you can go out and make a lot of
money, go make the money.  Just pay your fair share.  Just — just your
fair share.  (Applause.)  No, for real. 

I have no problems with a company making reasonable profits, but, my
Lord, not on the backs of working families and seniors.  And this is
really — when it gets down to it, it’s about fairness — fairness and
decency and providing people with some dignity. 

Last week, I released my budget.  I met, by the way —

and I apologize to the press who is here; they’re tired of hearing me
say this — I met with the new Speaker of the House.  He said — he is
threatening that we’re going to let the federal debt not get paid and
put us in turmoil.  We’ve never done that in American history.  And the
debt is an accumulation of debt over 200 years.  That’s the debt we’re
talking about. 

And — and I want to lay it — I said, “Look, I’ll lay out clearly what we
support.  I’ll lay out my budget on March the 9th; you lay out your
budget, and we’ll negotiate.  We’ll negotiate.” 

Well, you know, my dad used to have an expression, for real.  He’d say,
“Joey…” — when someone would say, “I’ll tell you what I value,” he’d
say, “Don’t tell me what you value.  Show me your budget, and I’ll tell
you what you value.”  Show me your budget.  (Applause.)  No, really. 
Think about.

My budget takes steps to lift the burden on seniors and hardworking
Americans so at the end of the month, after busting their necks their
whole lives, they have a little bit left over.  That’s what it used to
be at our kitchen table: At the end of the month, is there anything
left?  (Inaudible) pay anything, do you have a little bit of room?

And, again, it’s about fairness, and it’s about your dignity.  I value
everyone having a decent shot. 

My Republican colleagues now in the House of Representatives, I think
it’s fair to say — not every one of them, but most of them — are now at
a point where they have a very different value set. 

We’re strengthening Medicare and Social Security instead of threatening
to eliminate them, and the MAGA Republicans that are in Congress want —
are threatening to do.

You know, when I did — I don’t know whether you saw the State of the
Union, but it was kind of a fascinating thing.  (Applause.)  No, no, I
didn’t say it for that reason. 

I — I was in the Senate a long time.  I’m used to dealing with and
speaking to the Congress and the Senate.  And so I’m comfortable when
I’m doing them.

When I was standing up there before all the members of the House and the
Senate, and I talked about — I read the programs which some of their
leaders have put forward to, in fact, cut Social Security and cut
Medicare. 

And the gentlelady, as they say, from Georgia — in the mountains of
Georgia — (laughter) — stood up and yelled, “Liar!  Liar!”  And then
that generated — last time somebody did that, by the way, they got
censured.  But —

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  (Inaudible.)

THE PRESIDENT:  No, I’m not joking. 

But here’s what happened.  And then another half a dozen yelled, “Liar! 
Liar!  We’re not going to do that.”  I said, “Oh…” — you may — if you
remember, I said, “Oh, you’re not going to cut Social Security and
Medicare?”  (Laughter.)  And they said, “We’re not going to…” — and so
the whole group — I said, “Everybody who’s not going to cut Social
Security and Medicare, stand up.”  And they stood up and hollered. 
Well, they’re all on film.  (Laughs.)  (Applause.) 

I hope it’s true.  I hope they’ve gotten there, but I’ll believe it when
I see it.

Look, you paid for Social Security from the time you got your first
check when you were 16 years old, working as a lifeguard or something. 
Okay?  And I’m determined to protect them both.   There’s way to protect
them without cutting them.  (Applause.)

Look, let me close with this.  You know, let’s finish the job.  Let’s
protect the lower prescription drug costs for everyone.  Let’s expand
healthcare for more people to get care.  Let’s keep building the economy
from the middle out and the bottom up, not from the top down.

And, by the way, when that happens — when the middle does well and the
bottom rises, the wealthy still do very, very well.  And no one — I
commit to you, and I committed to this when I got elected — when I was
running: No one making less than $400,000 will see a penny in federal
taxes raised as long as I’m President of the United States of America. 
(Applause.)

But, look — but, again, it’s about just — just paying a fair share.   

When I got elected, there were — I think it was 6- — don’t hold me to
the exact number — 690 billionaires in America.  There’s now a
thousand.  You know what the average federal tax they pay is?  T-H-R-E-E
percent.  Three.  They pay a lower tax rate than the custodians in this
building.  They pay a lower tax rate than any of you, basically. 

And so, it’s just not fair.  I think you should be able to be a
billionaire if you can earn it, but just pay your fair share.  Just pay
something.

And, by the way, you know everybody said, well, how was I able to have
these new programs and still cut the deficit $1.7 trillion the last two
years? 

Well, it’s pretty — pretty straightforward.  There were <s>550</s>
\[55\] companies of the Fortune 500 that made $40 billion that didn’t
pay a penny in tax — zero, nothing — in taxes.  So I said the — you
know, outrageous.  And we got votes for it.  I said they ought to pay a
minimum of 15 percent.  Fifteen percent.  That’s less than you all pay. 
And guess what?  It allowed me to cut the deficit.

So, folks, this is about just basic fairness and decency.  There’s
nothing radical about what I’m proposing.  And if you look at the
polling data, it’s overwhelmingly popular what we’ve proposed.  As a
matter of fact, it’s a hell of a lot more popular than I am. 
(Laughter.)  But I’m serious.

So, I — this is no time to turn around. 

Look, what the American people understandably — a lot of people have
lost faith in government for a lot of reasons.  And here’s the deal: We
promised these things, and they haven’t seen it.  I don’t know whether
you’ve been surprised, but the number of people who have come up to me
after January 1st saying, “I cut — you cut my insulin costs. 
Thirty-five dollars.”  Like, “I didn’t believe government would really
do it.”  But there’s a lot more coming.  A lot more coming. 

And, again, let me end by thanking the medical people that are here and
the students.  It really matters.  It really, really, really matters.

And all of you have to do, like many people in this audience have been
consum- — significant consumer of healthcare.  My son spent 18 months
knowing he was dying in the hospital.  And the docs and nurses just
changed — changed it.  They — they made it — they took care of him.

My wife and daughter killed in a trucking accident.  My two boys were
expected not to live.  You guys saved them and you saved their sanity as
well.

So, I think that, you know, we vastly underestimate and you
underestimate the psychological impact you have on people, not just the
medical impact you have on them.

So, I’m here to say: Thank you, thank you, thank you.  (Applause.) 

And, folks, let’s remember: Don’t forget we are the United States of
America, and there’s nothing, nothing beyond our capacity if we work
together.  So, let’s work together.

God bless you all.  And may God protect our troops.  (Applause.)

12:31 P.M. PDT
