---
date: '2023-03-15'
modified_time: 2023-03-14 19:12:56-04:00
published_time: 2023-03-15 05:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/03/15/on-the-record-press-call-on-the-biden-administrations-new-actions-to-lower-healthcare-costs-for-americans/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "On-the-Record Press Call on the Biden Administration\u2019s New Actions to\
  \ Lower Healthcare Costs for\_Americans"
---
 
Via Teleconference  
March 14, 2023

4:47 P.M. EDT  
  
MR. MUNOZ:  Hi, everybody.  This Kevin Munoz.  Thank you for joining us
for our call previewing the President’s event tomorrow in Nevada, as
well as new actions that the Biden administration is taking to lower
healthcare costs for Americans.  
  
As a reminder, this call will be on the record and embargoed until
tomorrow at 5:00 a.m. Eastern.  You all should have received some
materials that are also embargoed.  
  
On today’s call, we will have Susan Rice, the White House Domestic
Policy Advisor; Secretary Xavier Becerra, the Secretary of Health and
Human Services; and Administrator Chiquita Brooks-LaSure of CMS.  We
also have a few representatives from HHS, CMS, and the White House
Domestic Policy Council on for Q&A.  
  
But, with that, I will kick it to you, Susan.   
  
One second, I think we have some technical difficulties.   
  
AMBASSADOR RICE:  Kevin?   
  
MR. MUNOZ:  Yes, hi.  We can hear you now.  Hi, Susan.   
  
AMBASSADOR RICE:  Okay.  Sorry about that everybody.  And thank you very
much for joining us.   
  
Americans pay two to three times more for prescription drugs than
citizens in other developed countries.  And that’s why, since day one,
President Biden has been committed to lowering healthcare costs and
expanding benefits for all Americans.  And he has done just that with
the Inflation Reduction Act.  
  
First, the law makes many recommended vaccines free for Medicare
beneficiaries.  And tomorrow, the Biden-Harris administration is going
to release new data showing how President Biden’s prescription drug law
is saving money for seniors across the country.  
  
A new report finds that 3.4 million people with Medicare would have
saved an average of nearly $70 per person in 2021 had the Inflation
Reduction Act already been in effect.  That’s over $230 million in
savings on recommended vaccines, like the shingles and tetanus
vaccines.  
  
We expect that in 2023 and beyond, even more people with Medicare will
benefit from this provision, and vaccine uptake will be higher because
the lower out-of-pocket costs will encourage folks to get these
important vaccines.  
  
Next, under the Inflation Reduction Act, for the first time, Medicare
will negotiate lower prescription drug prices for seniors.  Medicare
will announce the first 10 drugs selected for negotiation in September. 
But tomorrow, the Department of Health and Human Services will release
initial guidance on how its prescription drug process — negotiation
process will work.  
  
Furthermore, the Inflation Reduction Act requires prescription drug
companies to pay rebates to Medicare if they raise their prices faster
than inflation, as was the case with 1,200 prescription drugs last year
alone.  
  
Starting April 1st, Medicare beneficiaries will pay lower coinsurance
for Part B drugs that raise prices faster than inflation.  And tomorrow,
HHS will publish its first list of drugs for which this provision will
apply.  
  
All of this builds on our work as well to lower insulin costs.  As you
know, insulin costs less than $10 a vial to make, but some Americans pay
over $300 for it, and that’s flat-out wrong.  
  
President Biden called on pharma companies, for that very reason, to
bring prices down for insulin on their own.  And we’ve seen two major
manufacturers heeding that call.  Just today, Novo Nordisk announced its
plans to cut the price of insulin by 75 percent.  Congress should finish
the job and extend the $35 insulin cap to all Americans.  
  
But we know that congressional Republicans have a very different plan,
one that would be bad for Americans’ health as well as their
pocketbooks.  
  
Congressional Republicans have introduced legislation to repeal the
Inflation Reduction Act.  That means millions of Americans would pay
higher health insurance premiums and higher taxes, millions of Americans
would pay higher drug prices and insulin prices, and millions of seniors
would be unable to get recommended vaccines for free, and billions of
dollars would go back into the pockets of Big Pharma, all while
increasing the deficit.   
  
I’m very proud of the work we’ve done to lower costs for Americans and
improve their access to important treatments and preventative care. 
We’ve got to do more work to finish the job. And millions of Americans
are relying on that — on us to do just that.  
  
So, with that, I’ll turn it over to Secretary Becerra.  And thank you.  
  
SECRETARY BECERRA:  Ambassador, thanks very much.  Kevin, thank you. 
And to Administrator Chiquita Brooks-LaSure, thanks for all the work
that she and her team — some of whom are on and may be answering
questions — will be available.  
  
I just wanted to say to everyone who is on this call: Thanks for joining
and thinking it important enough to report about.   
  
Thanks to the President’s new lower cost prescription drug law, people
who get their insulin through Medicare won’t have to pay more than $35 a
month for that month’s supply, as you heard from Ambassador Rice.  For
the first time ever, we’re going to now be able to begin the historic
process of negotiating to get lower, competitive prescription drug
prices.  
  
We’re taking on powerful interests to bring down healthcare costs so
Americans can sleep better at night.   
  
And on top of this, we are breaking record after record on the
Affordable Care Act health insurance enrollment.  Today, the number is
some 16.3 million Americans who have chosen a quality, affordable health
plan by the end of this year when the open enrollment closed.  
  
Compare that to just two years ago when the President took office, when
there were about 11.1 million Americans enrolled in the Affordable
Health Care plans.  
  
But today, I want to talk about three things we’re doing right now in
Medicare: making vaccines free, reducing cost of insulin, and rebates
that lower costs for the Medicare program for people who are on
Medicare.  
  
Today, HHS is releasing a report that shows the savings people with
Medicare will see now that the out-of-pocket costs for recommended
preventative vaccines covered under Medicare Part D have been
eliminated.   
  
The report will show — when you have a chance to read it — that about
three-and-a-half million people — about 3.4 million people, or about 7
percent of the folks on Medicare Part D, will receive a Part D covered
vac- — who received a <s>cover</s> \[COVID\] vaccine in 2021.  Well,
those folks, they paid about $234 million in out-of-pocket costs for
those vaccines back in 2021.  
  
Today, they would pay zero dollars as a result of the President’s new
lower prescription drug law.   
  
The report also shows that in some cases, some people paid nearly $200
for the shingles vaccine by itself.  Again, not anymore.  
  
And, by the way, one in three Americans will get shingles at some point
in their life.  It’s something people really want to avoid.  I think we
all know that.  
  
But think about that: Three and a half million people paid $234 million
out of their own pocket back in 2021 for vaccines.  No longer.  That’s
$234 million that people would now have in their pockets as a result of
this new prescription drug law that the President made possible.  
  
The report also examined the number of enrollees who receive vaccines
covered under Part D, their total out-of-pocket spending, and average
out-of-pocket spending for each state.  The report has a full
breakdown.   
  
Let me just highlight a few of the states.  My state, California:
403,000 Californians received vaccines under Part D in 2021.  In 2021,
about 227,000 Floridians received vaccines under Part D in 2021.  And in
Texas, there were some 204,000 Texans who received vaccines under Part
D.   
  
All of them paid something for those vaccines.  All of them today would
not have to pay anything for those vaccines.   
  
By the way, the highest average out-of-pocket costs were for folks in
the states of South Dakota, about $142 in out-of-pocket costs; Wyoming,
about $129; and North Dakota, about $127.   
  
Again, all those South Dakotans, folks from Wyoming, folks from North
Dakota — those are dollars they would now have still in their pocket now
in 2023.   
  
And again, that’s just for one year.  That was just 2021.  Now, moving
forward — 2023, 2024 — moving forward, zero dollars out-of-pocket
cost.   
  
Let me turn real quickly to insulin.  No one should have to skip or
ration their insulin because they can’t afford it.  Thanks to the
President’s new lower-cost prescription drug law, they won’t.  And
people on Medicare won’t be on the hook when drug companies inexplicably
jack up the prices of their drugs.   
  
In addition to the $35 insulin cap, drug manufacturers will now need to
pay rebates to Medicare if their prices increase for certain drugs
beyond inflation.   
  
In January, we released a report showing that the $35 monthly insulin
cap would have saved about a million and a half people with Medicare an
average of about $500 on their insulin back in 2020.  Again, that’s one
year, back in 2020.  
  
The highest average annual out-of-pocket savings per person benefiting
from the new insulin law — North Dakota, with about $805, would have
been saved by individual net savings; Iowa, about $725 would have been
saved by folks in Iowa; and South Dakota, $725 as well.   
  
These kinds of savings will give people a little bit more breathing
room, more comfort as they decide to go to the grocery store to buy
their food, more ability to pay their rent, or maybe it’s just to do
something decent for their grandkids.   
  
Lastly, I want to address the Medicare Part B coinsurance provisions in
the Inflation Reduction Act.  The IRA requires drug companies that raise
prices for certain drugs faster than the rate of inflation to pay a
Medicare rebate.   
  
Administrator Brooks-LaSure will share more of the details with you
today about these rebates and about how some people with traditional
Medicare or managed care Medicare may stand to save starting in a matter
of — just a matter of weeks.   
  
This list of drugs that are included will be updated every quarter from
here on out when it comes to those rebates.   
  
The President’s budget capped — caps the price of insulin at $35 for
everyone and negotiates a fair price for more prescription drugs. 
That’s going to be good news for Americans.  It will make certain
generic drugs available for Medicare beneficiaries for a $2 co-pay.  It
brings peace of mind to millions of Americans.   
  
The President’s budget will strengthen Medicare for the next
generation.   
  
All of these things are good for the people of America with Medicare. 
And this is good for the future of Medicare as it looks to serve all
beneficiaries moving forward into the future.  And that’s, of course,
good for all American taxpayers.   
  
Let’s hope every Medicare beneficiary takes advantage of all these
savings.  Let’s hope every American can share in those savings.   
  
And now, I think I’m turning this over to Administrator Chiquita
Brooks-LaSure with CMS.   
  
ADMINISTRATOR BROOKS-LASURE:  Thank you so much, Secretary Becerra.  It
is a pleasure to join you and Ambassador Rice today.  And thank you
again to all of — all of you who joined us.  
  
Under the leadership of President Biden and Vice President Harris, this
administration is ensuring the American economy works for everyone,
which includes being able to keep you and your family healthy.  
  
Last week, the President proposed a budget that will ensure that
Medicare is here for our children’s children, as certified by our own
CMS chief actuary.  
  
At CMS, we’re fighting every day to make sure that all people have a
just opportunity to obtain their optimal health.  
  
One of the most important ways we can protect people’s health is to
ensure they can afford the prescription drugs they need by reducing the
cost of drugs.   
  
Thanks to the actions of the Biden-Harris administration and the
President’s new prescription drug law, called the Inflation Reduction
Act, we’re tackling the cost of prescription drugs and delivering lower
drug costs to millions of people and families across the United
States.  
  
The new prescription drug law is already helping people with Medicare
save money through free recommended vaccines and caps on insulin costs
for people with Medicare prescription drug coverage.  
  
The new law requires drug companies to pay rebates to Medicare for
increasing drug prices faster than inflation.  
  
Beginning October 1st of last year, those rebates went into effect for
drugs that you get from your pharmacy under Medicare prescription drug
coverage.  
  
Today, we’re talking about lowering costs on drugs you get at your
doctor’s office.  
  
On January 1st of this year, rebates for drugs administered by
physicians under Medicare Part B went into effect.  
  
For both rebates, CMS will send invoices to drug companies by the end of
2025.  
  
As part of the Part B rebate provision, beginning this April, some
people with Medicare may pay less for certain drugs.  
  
CMS is delivering these savings to the people we serve right on
schedule, with tomorrow’s release of the April 2023 Average Sales Price
File.  This file includes a list of drugs that may be cheaper for some
people with Medicare as a result of the new drug law.  
  
In the first quarter with this lower cost sharing, some people may see
savings for 27 drugs listed in the file.  
  
The Medicare Prescription Drug Inflation Rebate Program is strengthening
Medicare by making prescription drugs affordable for millions of people
and discouraging drug companies from increasing prices faster than
inflation.  It’s also protecting Medicare for our children and
grandchildren.  
  
President Biden, Vice President Harris, and those of us who serve in
their administration are working to protect our country’s most precious
resource: our health.   
  
Thank you.   
  
And now I’m turning it back over to you, Kevin.  
  
MR. MUNOZ:  Thank you, Administrator.  We have time for a few
questions.  Let’s go to Rachel Roubein with the Post.   
  
Q    Hi, my question was: Could you explain what the note from the CMS
actuary is essentially saying?  Is it saying that the actuary believes
that Biden’s Medicare financing plan, if it went into effect in fiscal
year 2024 — so, essentially, if Congress passed it — then the Medicare
trust fund would be extended for another four years?  
  
ADMINISTRATOR BROOKS-LASURE:  This is the CMS Administrator.  If the
President’s budget — all of the proposals were put into place, it would
be — the trust funds would go to 2050.  But the — but the — yes, if the
President’s budget baseline is th- — is now 2032.  
  
So that’s an update to the trustees analysis that was done last year,
now that we — during the President’s budget, the actuaries update the
baseline, and it’s based on what our current wealth projections are.  
  
MS. LINKE YOUNG:  And just to underscore the Administrator’s point, the
conclusion of the actuary is that implementation — congressional
enactment of the President’s budget would extend the Medicare trust fund
solvency date for another generation, for more than 25 years, into 2050
and beyond.  
  
MR. MUNOZ:  And just to help, that was Christen Linke Young with the
Domestic Policy Council.  
  
Let’s go to Amanda Seitz at the Associated Press.  
  
Q    Hi, thank you.  I was curious if you could just go over the drug
rebates.  Are you essentially saying that you think the drug companies
will lower the costs in anticipation that they’re going over that
inflation rate since you’re not billing them until 2025?  
  
ADMINISTRATOR BROOKS-LASURE:  This is the CMS Administrator.  I’ll start
and then allow others to chime in as they like.  So, what we’re saying,
kind of, is a couple-fold.   
  
What we’re releasing now are the companies that did, in fact, go over
inflation.  So they increased their drugs at a rate faster than
inflation.  And so, for the 27 drugs that we’ve listed, cost-sharing for
those drugs will go down.  And those are the amounts that we’re
releasing.  
  
We do believe that the inflation rebate proposal, the overall provision,
does give a strong incentive for drug companies to not increase their
prices above inflation.   
  
So, it’s sort of, I would say, a two-fold benefit.  One, that if drug
companies do exceed inflation, they will be paying rebates to the
federal government.  And for Part B drugs, they will lower cost-sharing
for Americans to get Part B coverage.   
  
But even as important, I would say, is the incentive for drug companies
not to increase cost.  And that’s something we’ve seen in the Medicare —
excuse me, the Medicaid inflation rebate, and now this is an even
stronger tool.    
  
And would add out: If Christen or Meena has anything they’d like to add,
please do.  
  
MS. LINKE YOUNG:  No, I think you covered it.  
  
MR. MUNOZ:  All right, Tammy at CNN.   
  
Q    Hi, thank you for taking my call.  So, I just also wanted to get a
little bit more clarity on what is the mechanism that will actually
provide the rebate to the seniors starting in April as opposed to the
end of 2025.  
  
MS. LINKE YOUNG:  So I can I can start.  This is Christen from the White
House.  So, the provision has two parts.  One component is that
manufacturers will owe a rebate to CMS and will be invoiced in — you
know, in the future, as the Administrator alluded to.   
  
But separate from that invoicing, Medicare will be reducing its Part B
cost-sharing for these drugs this coming quarter.  And Medicare
Advantage plans are also required to not exceed the level of
cost-sharing that’s provided here.   
  
And so, if you are a patient taking one of these — these drugs, the Part
B cost-sharing will be reduced below the 20 percent that Part B
cost-sharing typically is to account for the differences noted in the
file.   
  
As the Administrator noted, the sort of exact incidence of that will
depend on what supplemental coverage you may have, but Medicare Part B
cost-sharing will be directly reduced for these drugs, because the
drug’s price increased faster than inflation.  
  
MR. MUNOZ:  Great, thanks.   
  
Let’s go to David Lim at Politico.  
  
Q    Hi, thanks for taking my question.  With regard to the Part B
rebates, I know you guys estimate the number that seniors might see
their out-of-pocket costs decrease over time per dose.  But do you guys
have any estimates for the total number of funds that seniors may end up
not paying as a result of these drugs through the next quarter and
through the end of the year?  
  
DR. SESHAMANI:  This is Dr. Seshamani with the —  
  
MS. LINKE YOUNG:  This is Christen —  
  
DR. SESHAMANI:  Oh, Christen, you want to take it?  
  
MS. YOUNG:  Go ahead, Meena.  Go ahead.  
  
DR. SESHAMANI:  This is Meena Seshamani.  I’m Director for the Center
for Medicare.   
  
So, the amount that any individual person would see depends on a few
things.  As the Administrator mentioned, it depends on what kind of
supplemental coverage they have.  Because if they have wraparound
coverage that is taking care of their out-of-pocket costs, then that
will absorb, you know, some or all of it.   
  
It also depends on the dose and the treatment protocol that they’re on. 
Because depending on the dose of the medicine that they take, that
impacts what their out-of-pocket costs are.   
  
So, because of those complexities, it’s hard for us to be able to say
that there is exactly this much money, you know, for people to be able
to come up with that full estimate because there are these variables in
play.   
  
However, overall, this provision — both because of the impact that it
will have on the market to discourage manufacturers from increasing
prices faster than inflation and because of this provision to lower the
out-of-pocket costs in Part B for that coinsurance, this provision
really does protect people with Medicare from large out-of-pocket price
increases for certain Part B drugs.  
  
MR. MUNOZ:  Okay.  We have time for one more question.  Let’s get a
Rachel Cohrs at STAT News.  
  
Q    Thanks.  I just wanted to ask whether we would get any details
about the negotiation guidance.  Maybe I just missed something but I
don’t — I didn’t see it in the embargoed materials.  So just wanted to
check whether I’m missing something or whether that’s something we will
get later.  
  
MS. LINKE YOUNG:  This is Christen.  You are not missing something.  The
negotiation guidance will be released tomorrow, and we don’t have any
details to preview at this time.  
  
MR. MUNOZ:  All right.  Thank you everybody for joining.   
  
As a reminder, everything is embargoed till 5:00 a.m. tomorrow.  Don’t
hesitate to reach out if you have any questions.   
  
Have a good day.

5:12 P.M. EDT

  
 
