---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2022-02-28'
modified_time: 2022-02-28 13:10:29-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/02/28/a-proclamation-on-national-colorectal-cancer-awareness-month-2022/
published_time: 2022-02-28 13:08:07-05:00
title: "A Proclamation on National Colorectal Cancer Awareness Month,\_2022"
---
 
 Cancer is personal to nearly every family, including my own.  Each
year, more than 50,000 families across the country lose a loved one to
colorectal cancer — the fourth most common cancer and the second leading
cause of cancer deaths in America.  The toll it exacts is immeasurable,
but when we detect colorectal cancer early, we can save lives and
deliver hope.  During National Colorectal Cancer Awareness Month, we
raise awareness of this dreaded disease and renew our commitment to
ending cancer as we know it.    
  
     While anyone can be afflicted by colorectal cancer, we know that
this illness strikes at a disproportionate rate among Black Americans as
well as Americans over the age of 50.  Getting regular screenings and
identifying symptoms and risk factors are both pivotal to saving lives. 
According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, symptoms
such as blood in the stool, a change in bowel habits, stomach pain,
bloating, cramps that do not go away, or weight loss without a known
cause should be discussed with a health care provider.  However, early
stages of colorectal cancer often emerge without symptoms, and it is
important to begin regular screenings starting at the age of 45.  
  
     In addition, people who smoke, consume alcohol, or are obese are
more likely to be diagnosed with colorectal cancer.  Adopting healthy
behaviors — including quitting the use of tobacco products, reducing
alcohol consumption, and eating meals that include fruits, vegetables,
and whole grains — can also reduce your risk.  For more information on
risk factors, please visit
[www.Cancer.gov](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=bf58d1fb1b&e=dbfe791882).   
  
     I believe that it is within our power to end cancer as we know it. 
That is why I have re-ignited the Cancer Moonshot and set new ambitious
goals, to reduce the death rate from cancer by 50 percent over the next
25 years and to improve the lives of people and their families living
with and surviving cancer.  I have called on the Congress to create the
Advanced Research Projects Agency for Health (ARPA-H), which will invest
billions of dollars to advance breakthroughs in the prevention,
detection, and treatment of cancer and other deadly diseases.  As we
continue to pursue game-changing scientific breakthroughs, my
Administration also remains steadfast in our commitment to increasing
colorectal cancer screenings, follow-ups, and referrals, with a
particular focus on underserved populations.  On February 2, 2022, the
First Lady and I launched a call to action on cancer screening and early
detection.  Our goal is to jumpstart progress on potentially life-saving
screenings that far too many Americans have missed as a result of the
pandemic and help ensure that everyone in the United States benefits
equitably from the tools we have to detect and diagnose cancer.  We are
calling on every American to get back on track with their recommended
screenings, including colorectal cancer screenings, and for the public
and private sectors to increase access to early detection for
individuals and communities.  
  
     Ensuring that every American has access to quality, affordable
health coverage is another critical way that we can win the fight
against cancer.  Thanks to the Affordable Care Act, most health
insurance plans must cover certain preventive services with no
out-of-pocket costs.  This coverage now includes colorectal cancer
screenings for adults over the age of 45, making it easier to get
colorectal cancer screenings and helping improve access to earlier
treatment.  Health coverage under the Affordable Care Act has never been
more accessible and affordable than it is today, and I encourage all
Americans to learn more by visiting
[www.HealthCare.gov](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=4cdbbe63ea&e=dbfe791882).
   
  
     During National Colorectal Cancer Awareness Month, I urge every
American to exercise vigilance around their own health and the health of
their loved ones.  Early diagnosis and treatment save lives — and
getting screened for colorectal cancer is vitally important as we
continue our shared mission to end cancer as we know it.  
  
     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim March
2022 as National Colorectal Cancer Awareness Month.  I encourage all
citizens, government agencies, private businesses, non-profit
organizations, and other groups to join in activities that will increase
awareness and prevention of colorectal cancer.  
  
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
twenty-eighth day of February, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-two, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-sixth.  
                              

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
