---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2022-02-28'
modified_time: 2022-02-28 13:17:33-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/02/28/a-proclamation-on-american-red-cross-month-2022/
published_time: 2022-02-28 13:17:32-05:00
title: "A Proclamation on American Red Cross Month,\_2022"
---
 
Throughout our history, Americans have always stepped up for each other
in moments of crisis.  This spirit is woven into the fabric of our
Nation, and for more than 140 years it has been exemplified by devoted
employees, volunteers, and supporters of the American Red Cross.  This
month, we honor the American Red Cross and the selfless Americans who
serve our communities in need across our country and around the world. 

                Since its founding in 1881 by Clara Barton, a nurse and
educator, the American Red Cross has carried out its noble mission of
preventing and easing human suffering.  Today, in big cities and small
towns across the country, hundreds of thousands of Red Cross workers —
more than 90 percent of whom are volunteers — continue to carry out that
mission by selflessly giving blood, making donations, and teaching first
aid in local communities.

                Support from the American Red Cross has provided hope to
people in their darkest hours — in the face of armed conflict,
climate-related disasters, and the COVID-19 pandemic.  Red Cross
volunteers are on the front lines of recovery, providing emergency
shelter to families impacted by devastating floods, tornadoes, fires,
and other disasters; donating lifesaving blood to meet the rising demand
of hospital patients; supporting our Nation’s service members, veterans,
and their families; and providing medical care and essential resources
to combat diseases worldwide.

                During American Red Cross Month, Americans who can are
encouraged to answer the call to donate blood and serve communities in
need.  You are encouraged to learn more about eligibility and the steps
involved to donating blood.  Let us renew our commitment to Clara
Barton’s timeless ideal of caring for one another in times of hardship
and uncertainty.  Let us take part in this proud tradition of lending a
helping hand to those in need.  Let us live up to the duty of care we
owe each other through acts of compassion every day. 

                NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the
United States of America and Honorary Chair of the American Red Cross,
by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the laws
of the United States, do hereby proclaim March 2022 as American Red
Cross Month.  I encourage all Americans to observe this month with
appropriate programs, ceremonies and activities, and by supporting the
work of service and relief organizations.

                IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this
twenty-eighth day of February, in the year of our Lord two thousand
twenty-two, and of the Independence of the United States of America the
two hundred and forty-sixth.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
