---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2022-02-28'
modified_time: 2022-02-28 13:13:20-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/02/28/a-proclamation-on-womens-history-month-2022/
published_time: 2022-02-28 13:13:19-05:00
title: "A Proclamation on Women\u2019s History Month,\_2022"
---
 
Every March, Women’s History Month provides an opportunity to honor the
generations of trailblazing women and girls who have built our Nation,
shaped our progress, and strengthened our character as a people.   
  
Throughout our history, despite hardship, exclusion, and discrimination,
women have strived and sacrificed for equity and equality in communities
across the country.  Generations of Native American women were stewards
of the land and continue to lead the fight for climate justice.  Black
women fought to end slavery, advocate for civil rights, and pass the
Voting Rights Act.  Suffragists helped pass the 19th Amendment to the
Constitution so that no American could be denied a vote on the basis of
sex.  
  
Standing on the shoulders of the heroines who came before them, today’s
women and girls continue to carry forward the mission of ensuring our
daughters have the same opportunities as our sons.  Women of the labor
movement are achieving monumental reforms to help all workers secure the
better pay, benefits, and safety they deserve.  LGBTQI+ women and girls
are leading the fight for justice, opportunity, and equality —
especially for the transgender community.  Women and girls continue to
lead groundbreaking civil rights movements for social justice and
freedom, so that everyone can realize the full promise of America.  
  
But despite the progress being made, women and girls — especially women
and girls of color — still face systemic barriers to full participation
and wider gaps in opportunity and equality.  The COVID-19 pandemic has
exposed and exacerbated those disparities which have disproportionately
impacted women’s labor force participation, multiplied the burden on
paid and unpaid caregivers, and increased rates of gender-based
violence.  The constitutional right to abortion established in Roe v.
Wade is facing an unprecedented assault as States pass increasingly
onerous restrictions to critical reproductive health care and bodily
autonomy.  Workers contend with gender and racial wage gaps that can
amount to hundreds of thousands of dollars denied over the course of
their lifetimes.  The Congress sent the Equal Rights Amendment to the
States for ratification 50 years ago and it is long past time that the
principle of women’s equality should be enshrined in our
Constitution.   
  
     My Administration has made this issue a top priority from day one.
 Through historic Executive actions, my Administration launched
Government-wide efforts to advance gender equity and equality, racial
equity, and LGBTQI+ equality.  Through the American Rescue Plan, my
Administration delivered immediate relief to women and families, funded
domestic violence and sexual assault services, supported child care
providers, and invested in care workers — who are disproportionately
women of color.  Through the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, we are
working to ensure equitable access to good-paying jobs, particularly in
sectors where women have historically been underrepresented.  We have
taken critical steps to end the scourge of gender-based violence and
advocate for the long overdue reauthorization of the Violence Against
Women Act — legislation that I was proud to author and champion as a
United States Senator.  We are confronting the epidemic levels of
violence that transgender women and girls continue to face.  We are
working to expand access to health care, including reproductive health
care for all people regardless of their gender, race, ethnicity, income,
or zip code.  We are fighting to lower the costs of child care and
provide access to free preschool for all three- and four-year olds.  We
issued a call to action to eliminate racial disparities in maternal
health care, which disproportionately impact Black and Indigenous
women.  And my Administration established a Gender Equity and Equality
Action Fund to advance the rights and economic security of women and
girls around the world.  
  
     This work is being led by the most diverse and gender-balanced
Cabinet in American history, including the first woman — and woman of
color — to serve as Vice President, Kamala Harris; the first women ever
to serve as Treasury Secretary and Director of National Intelligence;
the first Native American woman to serve as a Cabinet Secretary; women
leading the Departments of Commerce, Energy, Housing and Urban
Development, along with the Small Business Administration and the Office
of Management and Budget; and women of color representing America on the
world stage as United States Ambassador to the United Nations and the
United States Trade Representative as well as leading my Council of
Economic Advisers in the White House.  In addition, I established the
first White House Gender Policy Council to advance gender equity across
the Federal Government and released the first-ever national gender
strategy to support the full participation of all people — including
women and girls — in the United States and around the world.   
  
     This Women’s History Month, as we reflect on the achievements of
women and girls across the centuries and pay tribute to the pioneers who
paved the way, let us recommit to the fight and help realize the deeply
American vision of a more equal society where every person has a shot at
pursuing the American dream.  In doing so, we will advance economic
growth, our health and safety, and the security of our Nation and the
world.  
  
     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim March
2022 as Women’s History Month.  I call upon all Americans to observe
this month and to celebrate International Women’s Day on March 8, 2022,
with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities.  I also invite
all Americans to visit www.WomensHistoryMonth.gov to learn more about
the vital contribution of women to our Nation’s history.   
  
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
twenty-eighth day of February, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-two, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-sixth.  
   
 

                                JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
