---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2022-02-18'
modified_time: 2022-02-18 11:21:38-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/02/18/a-proclamation-on-national-eating-disorders-awareness-week-2022/
published_time: 2022-02-18 11:20:41-05:00
title: A Proclamation on National Eating Disorders Awareness Week, 2022
---
 
National Eating Disorders Awareness Week provides an opportunity to draw
attention to one of the most serious mental health conditions impacting
the lives of Americans and their families today.  Eating disorders —
including binge-eating, bulimia nervosa, and anorexia nervosa — affect
people of all backgrounds and genders.  Nearly 1 in 10 Americans are
expected to develop an eating disorder in their lifetime.  In recent
years, there has been a troubling surge in eating disorders among
children, older adults, military service members, and transgender
individuals.  When undiagnosed or untreated, eating disorders can have
serious — even fatal — consequences, which is why improving mental
health services and support is so important.

The COVID-19 pandemic has been especially challenging for individuals
with eating disorders.  National eating disorder hotlines have seen a
more than 70 percent spike in the volume of calls and chats since the
pandemic started.  Research shows that the number of hospitalizations
for eating disorders has doubled during that same time period.

Despite the fact that eating disorders have among the highest mortality
rate of any mental illness, the shame and stigmatization of eating
disorders often prevent people who are suffering from seeking help. 
That is why it is important to make more people aware that, with early
detection and medical intervention, full recovery from an eating
disorder is possible.

My Administration is working to improve access to treatment, recovery,
and social support for everyone currently living with an eating disorder
as well as for their caregivers, families, and friends.  Through the
National Institute of Mental Health, we are working to develop better
therapies and interventions.  My Administration is also working to
ensure that eating disorder care and treatment are treated the same as
any other medical conditions by health insurance plans.  Funding from
the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA)
provides health care providers, families, caregivers, and community
members the tools, training, and resources to recognize the symptoms of
an eating disorder so that referrals to specialty providers and
treatment can be provided as early as possible.

We are also working to increase access to mental health services and
support for young people, who are uniquely vulnerable to eating
disorders.  The American Rescue Plan included $122 billion to help
schools reopen safely, enabling them to support the mental health of
their students.  I have also called for doubling the number of
school-based health counselors, social workers, and nurses.  Together,
these resources will be essential to addressing the mental health needs
of our Nation’s youth.

To all those families who have watched a loved one face an eating
disorder and to all those who are currently facing or recovering from an
eating disorder — you are in our hearts and you are not alone.  It is
within our power to reduce the burden of eating disorders on the lives
of Americans and their families.  As we work toward these improvements,
immediate assistance is available for those in need of help.  The SAMHSA
National Helpline at 1-800-662-4357 is a confidential, free,
24-hour-a-day, 365-days-a-year information and referral service.  For
anyone experiencing a crisis, immediate help is also available by
calling the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 1-800-273-TALK.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim February 21
through February 27, 2022, as National Eating Disorders Awareness Week. 
I encourage citizens, government agencies, private businesses, nonprofit
organizations, and other interested groups to join in activities that
will increase awareness of what Americans can do to prevent eating
disorders and improve access to care and other support services for
those currently living with an eating disorder.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this eighteenth day of
February, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
