---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2022-02-28'
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/02/28/a-proclamation-on-irish-american-heritage-month-2022/
published_time: 2022-02-28 13:04:20-05:00
title: "A Proclamation on Irish-American Heritage Month,\_2022"
---
 
For centuries, Irish Americans have played a crucial role in helping
define the soul of our Nation, and today, nearly 1 in 10 Americans
proudly trace their roots back to the Emerald Isle.  With hope and faith
in their hearts, the first immigrants from Ireland crossed the Atlantic
in search of liberty and opportunity.  It was the dream of a better life
that brought my ancestors — the Blewitts of County Mayo and the
Finnegans of County Louth — and countless other Irish immigrants.   
  
Like so many Irish American families, my grandparents carried the spirit
and memory of Ireland in their hearts — a pride and passion they
instilled in their home in Scranton, Pennsylvania.  Through the journeys
of their own mothers and fathers and in the lessons they passed on to my
mother, Catherine Eugenia Finnegan Biden, they joined Irish Americans in
every corner of America in helping to write the next chapter of the
American story.  
  
The story of Irish Americans has always been one of strength and
perseverance through adversity.  Many Irish immigrants arrived on
America’s shores to escape the Great Famine, only to face
discrimination, prejudice, and poverty.  Despite these hard times, they
embraced their new homes in every corner of America — from the Atlantic
to the Pacific, across the Midwest and through the Rocky Mountains — and
helped build and fortify our Nation into what it is today.    
  
Irish Americans expanded the American middle class, building ladders of
opportunity that future generations could climb.  They became teachers,
firefighters, police officers, labor leaders, farmers, business owners,
and more.  Along the way, Irish Americans contributed enormously to the
American labor movement — championing safe working conditions,
advocating for children’s rights, and fighting racism, prejudice, and
income inequality.  They bravely answered the call to serve, defending
our Union and its values in every battle.  They continue to work on
behalf of the American people as public servants — serving in the
Congress, the Supreme Court, Federal agencies, the White House, and in
State and local offices across the country.  Irish Americans have
enriched our culture and nourished our hearts and souls through the arts
and humanities, earning recognition as Nobel and Pulitzer prize-winning
poets and authors, award-winning musicians, storytellers, and dancers,
and critically acclaimed actors.  They have blessed our Nation with
their indomitable spirit, faith, and love for family that has been
passed down through the generations.  This sense of community,
hospitality, resilience, and passion are integral pieces of America’s
cultural tapestry.   
  
The United States and Ireland are deeply and forever intertwined:
 linked in memory and imagination — in joy, sorrow, and resilience — by
our common love and common dreams.  We share, in every heart, an
unrelenting optimism — a flicker of hope that guides us through even the
darkest of nights.  
  
As we celebrate Irish-American Heritage Month, let us honor the journey
and contributions of Irish Americans who helped shape this land of
opportunity and define what it means to be American.  Let us reaffirm
the legacy of friendship and strong family ties between the United
States of America and Ireland — united by our common purpose, by our
histories, and by our futures.  
  
NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim March 2022 as
Irish-American Heritage Month.  I call upon all Americans to celebrate
the achievements and contributions of Irish Americans to our Nation with
appropriate ceremonies, activities, and programs.  
  
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-eighth day
of February, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
