---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2022-02-18'
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/02/18/day-of-remembrance-of-japanese-american-incarceration-during-world-war-ii/
published_time: 2022-02-18 11:24:22-05:00
title: "Day Of Remembrance Of Japanese American Incarceration During World War\_II"
---
 
Eighty years ago, on February 19, 1942, President Franklin D. Roosevelt
signed Executive Order 9066, stripping people of Japanese descent of
their civil rights.  That order and the subsequent actions carried out
by the Federal Government represent one of the most shameful chapters in
our Nation’s history.  On this Day of Remembrance of Japanese American
Incarceration During World War II, we acknowledge the unjust
incarceration of some 120,000 Japanese Americans, approximately
two-thirds of whom were born in the United States.  
  
Despite never being charged with a crime, and without due process,
Japanese Americans were forcibly removed from their homes and
communities and incarcerated, simply because of their heritage.  For
years, many Japanese Americans lived in harsh, overcrowded conditions,
surrounded by barbed wire fences and armed guards.  Not only did they
lose their homes, businesses, property, and savings — they also lost
their liberty, security, and the fundamental freedoms that belong to all
Americans in equal measure.  
  
I have always believed that great nations do not ignore their most
painful moments — they confront them with honesty and, in doing so,
learn from them and grow stronger as a result.  The incarceration of
Japanese Americans 80 years ago is a reminder to us today of the tragic
consequences we invite when we allow racism, fear, and xenophobia to
fester.  
  
Today, we reaffirm the Federal Government’s formal apology to Japanese
Americans whose lives were irreparably harmed during this dark period of
our history, and we solemnly reflect on our collective moral
responsibility to ensure that our Nation never again engages in such
un-American acts.  We acknowledge the intergenerational trauma and loss
that the incarceration of Japanese Americans has caused.  We also uplift
the courage and resilience of brave Japanese Americans who, despite
being unjustly incarcerated, formed powerful communities and marshalled
incredible dignity and strength.  
  
Many of those whose families were incarcerated volunteered or were
drafted to serve in combat — courageously serving in the 100th Infantry
Battalion, Military Intelligence Service, Women’s Army Auxiliary Corps,
Army Nurse Corps, and the 442nd Regimental Combat Team with unwavering
patriotism.  The all-Japanese American 100th Infantry Battalion and the
442nd Regimental Combat Team became two of the most decorated and
distinguished military units in our Nation’s history.  Countless
Japanese Americans carry forward this legacy of extraordinary service
today, and their work to preserve the history of this period strengthens
our Nation and our democracy.  
  
We reflect on the bravery of civil rights leaders like Fred Korematsu,
Minoru Yasui, Gordon Hirabayashi, and Mitsuye Endo, and that of every
Japanese American who organized and sought redress.  Their efforts
helped bring about the first Day of Remembrance, led President Jimmy
Carter to sign the law creating the Commission on Wartime Relocation and
Internment of Civilians, and spurred President Ronald Reagan to sign the
Civil Liberties Act of 1988, which provided monetary reparations to
living survivors and an official apology to the Japanese American
community.  At the same time, we also acknowledge the painful reality
that Japanese Latin Americans, who were taken from their Central and
South American homes and incarcerated by the United States Government
during World War II, were excluded from the Civil Liberties Act of
1988.  
  
Today, the National Park Service helps preserve several Japanese
American incarceration camps.  These tangible reminders of our history
provide important spaces for reflection and learning about the
injustices born of prejudice.  Preserving incarceration sites as
national parks and historic landmarks is proof of our Nation’s
commitment to facing the wrongs of our past, to healing the pain still
felt by survivors and their descendants, and to ensuring that we always
remember why it matters that we never stop fighting for equality and
justice for all.  My Administration is committed to maintaining these
national parks and landmarks for future generations and to combating
xenophobia, hate, and intolerance — including through the reestablished
White House Initiative on Asian Americans, Native Hawaiians, and Pacific
Islanders.  In the words of Dr. Frank Kitamoto, who was incarcerated as
a child, “This is not just a Japanese American story but an American
story with implications for the world.”   
  
The words we use to describe the historical and present treatment of
communities of color and other underserved communities have profound
meaning.  Today, we recognize that euphemistic terms that we have
collectively used in the past — such as “assembly centers,”
“relocation,” or “internment” — do not adequately describe the injustice
experienced by some 120,000 people; we recognize the forced removal and
mass incarceration of Japanese Americans and others during World War II;
and we reaffirm our commitment to *Nidoto Nai Yoni,* which translates to
“Let It Not Happen Again.”  
  
NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim February 19, 2022,
as a Day of Remembrance of Japanese American Incarceration During World
War II.  I call upon the people of the United States to commemorate this
injustice against civil liberties and civil rights during World War II;
to honor the sacrifice of those who defended the democratic ideals of
this Nation; and to commit together to eradicate systemic racism to heal
generational trauma in our communities.  
  
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this eighteenth day of
February, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.  
   
 

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
