---
date: '2023-01-17'
published_time: 2023-01-17 18:00:57-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2023/01/17/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-january-17-2023/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre, January 17,\_2023"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

1:52 P.M. EST  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Wow.  Such a quiet day.  Nothing going on here.  
  
Come on.  Come on, guys.  Here.  Please, right here.  Come on.  And
Steve.  
  
COACH KERR:  Thank you.  
  
MR. CURRY:  Can we flank you from the center?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  Yeah, please flank me.  I love it. 
(Laughter.)  
  
Good afternoon, everybody.   
  
Q    Good afternoon.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Come on, there’s a lot of people here.  Good
afternoon, everybody!  
  
Q    Good afternoon!  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay, so as you can all see, we have a couple of
special guests here today in the briefing room.  I am proud — so proud
to welcome to the podium Coach Steve Kerr.  Hello.  
  
COACH KERR:  Thank you.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Head coach of the Golden State Warriors and nine-time
NBA champion as both a coach and a player.  
  
And Steph Curry —  
  
MR. CURRY:  Thank you.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — four-time NBA champion and two-time NBA Most
Valuable Player.  
  
Coach Kerr and Steph will say a few words about their visit to D.C.
today and an issue that’s close to their hearts.  And so I’m going to
let them take over.  
  
But, you know, I almost — Coach, I almost went pro — (laughter) — but,
you know, being five-foot-two —  
  
COACH KERR:  Just — yeah, right there.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — five-foot-three didn’t make it happen.  But there’s
this great video of me and Sue Bird — an amazing icon in the —  
  
COACH KERR:  Okay.    
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — WNBA.  You should check that out.  
  
COACH KERR:  We’ll do that.  (Laughter.)  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  But anyway, I’m going to let you guys take over.   
  
COACH KERR:  All right.  
  
MR. CURRY:  Absolutely.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, thank you.  
  
MR. CURRY:  Thank you very much.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No problem.   
  
COACH KERR:  Thank you so much for having us today.  On behalf of the
Warriors, I want to thank President Biden and Vice President Harris for
the invitation to come to the White House today to celebrate our
championship from a year ago.  
  
It’s a great reminder of how lucky we are to be Americans, to live in a
country where we can chase our dreams and enjoy the fruits of our labor
and the celebration of all those around us.  And to come here today with
members of the organization to — to celebrate is really something
special.   
  
It was also very fulfilling for me, just a little while ago, to take
part in a roundtable on gun violence and gun safety with some senior
White House staffers, along with Klay Thompson and Moses Moody.  Over
the last hour or so, we learned a lot about what this administration is
doing to — to help create a safer environment in our country, something
that’s very close to my heart.  And it’s wonderful for me to learn a lot
more than — than I knew.   
  
So coming in today is — it’s a great day on many fronts.   
  
So thanks for the invitation.  And I’m going to turn it over to Mr.
Curry.  
  
MR. CURRY:  Thanks, Coach.  To echo what he said, I want to thank
President Biden and Vice President Harris for the invitation to come
here.  It’s something that we don’t ever take for granted.  Seven years
ago, I believe, we were here last, celebrating our first championship,
and now back to celebrate our fourth.  
  
So, to have this opportunity to reflect on the accomplishment last year,
to bring everybody together to celebrate that, to also acknowledge the
place sports has in bringing people together from all walks of life, all
backgrounds to provide inspiration, hope, love, togetherness — and
that’s what our journey was last year — so to have another opportunity
to celebrate that means a lot.   
  
And a great opportunity for us from the basketball community to thank
President Biden and his staff for all their hard work and diligence on
getting Brittney Griner home, who is a big part of our basketball
family.  And it meant — it means a lot to know that she’s here and home
safe with her family and all the work that went on behind the scenes to
make that a reality.  So I just wanted to say thank you there.  
  
And we’re very excited to be here and celebrate the day, celebrate with
our families.  And I appreciate the invitation.  This is truly, truly
special.  So thank you to everybody.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thank you, guys.   
  
MR. CURRY:  Appreciate it.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thank you so much.  Thank you, guys.  
  
MR. CURRY:  Absolutely.  Thank you.  
  
COACH KERR:  Thanks, Karine.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thank you so much.   
  
Q    No questions, Karine?  (Laughter.)  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  It’s up to them.  (Laughs.)  
  
Q    Bring Steph back.  We need to (inaudible).  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, they have — they have a — they — as you can
imagine, they have a tight schedule.  I think they’re on their way to
meet with the President right now.  And then as you know, you’ll — some
of you will get to see the two of them and the rest of the team at the
event that we’re having for the Warriors in about an hour — or less than
an hour.   
  
Okay, folks, thank you so much for joining us today.  And it was great
to hear from two people who have really been passionate voices on the
issue that you heard them talk about, which was gun violence
prevention.  And we really, really are thankful to them for using their
platform — their very, very big platform — to talk about an issue that
is truly, as you all know and report, that is destroying many families
across the country, many communities and, as you know, that the
President has worked and been a leader on for many decades.   
  
And this — the bipartisan gun prevention bill that was signed this
summer just showed the President’s commitment to this issue.  And as you
all know, it continues.  It doesn’t stop with that legislation.   
  
On Friday, it was reported that Republicans have a so-called “plan” to
prioritize payments if Congress fails to address the debt ceiling.  So I
want to be very, very clear here, as I have been, as the President has
been: This is not a plan.  It is a recipe for economic catastrophe.   
  
As President Biden has made clear, Congress must deal with the debt
limit and must do so without conditions.   
  
But congressional Republicans are threatening to hold the nation’s full
faith and credit, a mandate of the Constitution, hostage to their
demands to cut Social Security, to cut Medicare, and to cut Medicaid. 
Brinksmanship that threatens the global economy.   
  
Their latest idea is that rather than paying its bills, the United
States should make payment to wealthy bondholders, including foreign
investors, and stop payments for border security, food safety, nursing
homes, school lunches, the FAA, drug enforcement, and other programs
Americans rely on every single day.   
  
This so-called “privatization” scheme makes Republicans’ priorities
pretty clear — crystal clear, if I may add.  They want to put wealthy
bondholders over ordinary Americans who want safe food, safe skies, safe
communities, and secure borders.   
  
And it does not — it does nothing — absolutely nothing to change the
fact that failing to deal with the debt limit would cause economic
catastrophe.   
  
Bipartisan former Treasury secretaries and independent experts have
called out how dangerous failing to raise the debt ceiling would be.  
  
For example, I’ll give you a couple: The Chamber of Commerce said it
“would have catastrophic economic consequences.”  End quote.   
  
In 2011, then-Treasury Secretary Tim Geithner called it “unworkable” and
also “harmful.”  
  
And a former economist to Republican Senators Rob Portman, Marco Rubio,
and Mitt Romney called it a “really bad idea” and, I quote,
“disaster.”  
  
This is just another attempt by congressional Republicans to force
unpopular cuts on programs critical to seniors, the middle class, and
working families.  Congress needs to act and do so swiftly.  
  
There is no excuse for political brinksmanship when American jobs and
economic safety is on the line here.  
  
I also wanted to highlight that, this morning, the White House released
the first-ever National Strategy to Advance Equity, Justice, and
Opportunity for Asian Americans, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander
Communities.  The strategy details much-needed investment from 32
federal agencies including improved data, language access, and combating
anti-Asian hate.   
  
This unprecedented plan builds on the administration’s broader equity
agenda and President Biden’s historic executive order to establish and
reinvigorate the White House Initiative on AA and NHPIs.   
  
And we’re proud that the Biden-Harris administration reflects the rich
diversity of America, including the first Asian American Vice
President.  Fourteen percent of our appointees and nominees identify as
AA and NHPI, double the share of the population.   
  
You can read the full strategy and more about the initiative on
WhiteHouse.gov.   
  
And finally, this morning, as some of you have — have already either
covered or wrote about, the Census Bureau released data that show that
President Biden’s first two years in office have been the two greatest
years for new small-business applications on record, with 10.5 million
total new business created, with unemployment at a record low, and the
two strongest years of job creation in our history.  There are reasons
for economic optimism all over the country.   
  
Today’s new data is the latest confirmation that President Biden’s
economic plan is indeed working and is building our economy from the
bottom up and the middle out.   
  
Zeke, you want to take it?  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  Just two questions for you on Ukraine to start off
with.  Over the weekend, the British government confirmed it was sending
tanks to Ukraine for the first time.  Will the U.S. follow suit to meet
Ukraine’s request there?  
  
And then, separately, Prime Minister Rutte had a meeting in the Oval
Office a few minutes ago.  At the very end, he alluded to potentially
joining the U.S. and Germany in sending a Patriot missile system to
Ukraine.  Can you confirm that that was the announcement that’s coming
out of the meeting?  We haven’t got a readout yet.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay, so we’re going to have a readout very, very
shortly.  So once we have that, I will share that with all — we will
share — the team will share that with all of you.  
  
As far as Patriot missiles, I can say they discussed that, the war in
Ukraine and the importance of all the ongoing security assistance.  But
I would refer to the Dutch for any specifics about their own plans as it
relates to that specifically.  
  
As it relates to the conversation on — I’m sorry, I forgot the first
question.  
  
Q    Tanks to Ukraine after the British movement on that over the
weekend.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, we are always very — very careful on what —
on what our — you know, we don’t like to tell our allies what they
should or should not do.   
  
But as you know, we have been — we have been partners with them when it
comes to Ukraine, partners with our allies and partners with them on how
we are continuing to provide assistance to Ukraine in this aggressive
war that we have sou- — we have seen, this brutal war that we continue
to see by Russia.  But certainly, that is not something that we will
direct.   
  
We will continue to focus — we have been the country that has provided
the most assistance, as you all know, when it comes to security
assistance, when it comes to humanitarian aid.  And we are in constant
conversations with Ukraine on what their needs are.  And so, we’re going
to continue to do that alongside our partners and also our allies.  
  
Q    But this is an area where the UK is going to be ahead of the U.S.
sending Western tanks to Ukraine.  They’re going ahead with sending more
than a dozen of them in the coming weeks and months.  The White House
still hasn’t approved that.  So, is that in the offing now for the U.S.
to leapfrog ahead, back into the lead, in providing assistance for
Ukraine?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, look, we are in constant conversation with the
Ukrainian — with the Ukrainians on — on their assistance.  We have given
the most assistance than any other country.  The President — when he
walked into the administration, he made sure that he brought the NATO
together, he brought our alliance and partners together to make sure
that we had the backs of the Ukrainian people.  And so, that is
something that we’re going to continue to do.   
  
Certainly, I’m not going to get ahead of any announcements from here. 
But again, this is — we will be with the Ukrainian people for as long as
it takes for them to defend themselves, for them to defend themselves
against the brutal — the brutality that we are seeing from the Russian
aggression.  
  
Q    And just on a different topic.  Regarding the discovery of
classified and official documents at the President’s residence and
former office.  Last week, you told, I think — I believe it was Phil —
that we all can assume, the American people could assume that the
searches were complete and all the documents have been recovered.   
  
On Saturday, the White House Counsel’s Office said that five additional
classified documents had been found.  Is it safe to assume now that all
the documents are — have been recovered — all the official records, all
the classified documents are back in the custody of the National
Archives?  Or are more searches underway to find out if there’s anything
else there?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I understand your question.  We have addressed
multiple questions from here.  Multiple questions have been answered by
the President.  I know that you all just spent about — some of you, some
of your colleagues — maybe you yourself, Zeke — was on the phone with my
colleague for about 45 minutes that addressed a lot of your
questions.   
  
I’m just going to continue to be prudent here.  I’m going to let this
ongoing review that is happening, this legal process that is happening,
and let that — let that process continue under the Special Counsel.   
  
We’re not — I’m not going to comment from here.  I’m not — one of the
things that we have said for the last two years: When it comes to the
Department of Justice, when it comes to legal matters, when it comes to
legal issues, we have been very clear that we are not going to comment,
we are not going to politically interfere.  And — and that continues
with this also — this legal issue.   
  
And so, I would refer you to the Department of Justice, refer you to the
Special Counsel as it relates to specifics on this issue.  And also, my
White House Counsel colleagues are engaging with all of you, and we’ll
certainly continue to have conversations on this.  
  
I will say that we are consistent with what we have said on cooperating
fully with the Department of Justice on this issue.  And we will
continue to cooperate fully with the Special Counsel.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank, Karine.  On Friday, you stood here, though, and were asked
about this documents issue, by our count, some 18 times.  At that point,
the President’s lawyers had found these five additional pages of
classified documents.  So, did you not know on Friday that those
documents had been found when you were at the podium?  Or are you being
directed by someone to not be forthcoming on this issue?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I have been forthcoming from this podium.  What I said
yes to was what the statement at the time that we all had.  Right?  You
all had the statement.  And I was repeating what the — what the Counsel
was sharing at that time.  And so —  
  
Q    Right.  And we had that statement, so we knew what was in it.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Exactly.  
  
Q    But you also knew — did you not know that the other documents had
been found?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m telling you — I just answered the question.  I
just said that I was repeating what the information that we had at that
time — right? — that you all had — I was confirming from what the
Special Counsel had provided to all of you and that we knew as well from
here.  So just to be very, very clear.  
  
And, look, I’ve also been very clear about being prudent from here.  I
was also being very clear about being consistent from here and not going
beyond what is currently happening.  Right?   
  
And again, this is an ongoing — I also said this was an ongoing review
that was happening with the Department of Justice and, as we know, with
the Special Counsel.  I’ve been very consistent about that as well.   
  
And that’s one of the reason — your question to me is one of the reasons
why I’m — I — we are being very, very careful and very mindful and — to
not interfere here and to make sure — to make sure the Department of
Justice has their independence.   
  
Your question actually proves that, and that’s why we’re going to
continue to refer you to Department of Justice and refer you to the
Special Counsel or my colleagues —  
  
Q    Is the President —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — at the White House Counsel.  
  
Q    Does President Biden have confidence in the way his team is
handling this, with this trickle-out of information and the documents
being found day after day?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I can tell you this: The President has confidence.  I
can tell you this: that the President and his team rightfully took
action when they learned that the documents existed.  They reached out
to the Archives.  They reached out to the Department of Justice.  That
is the steps.  We have been very clear about that — the steps and the
process that we took here.  
  
And — and, look, we’re going to continue — we’re going to continue to,
as we have said, fully cooperate with the Department of Justice.  We’re
going to fully cooperate with — the President’s team is — going to fully
cooperate with the Special Counsel.  That does not stop, and that will
just continue.  Again, we’re going to respect the independence of the
Department of Justice.  
  
Q    Can you describe his mood to us and the conversations you’ve had
with him on this issue?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  His — his mood has been very clear.  I saw him this
morning.  He’s very focused.  I was with — I traveled with him this
weekend.  He wants to make sure that he’s continuing and we are
continuing to deliver for the American people.  And we’ve been — you
know, we’ve been pretty consistent on that.   
  
If you think about last week, you heard from him about his — how his
economic plan is working, how we have seen inflation go down for six
months straight, how we have seen unemploy- — unemployment numbers at
its lowest level in 50 years.  That matters.  That is also the things
that this country — that people in this country are also very, very
concerned about and want to hear what this President is doing every
day.  That’s his focus, and that’s what he’s going to continue to talk
about.  
  
Go ahead, Steve.  
  
Q    What’s the White House reaction to the news in the Dnipro where the
Russians bombed an apartment building and killed dozens of civilians?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, this weekend’s strikes are another example,
as you’ve heard us say, of the brutal and barbaric war that Russia is
waging against the Ukrainian people.  And we have seen this over and
over again, for about 10 months now — 11 months now.  
  
The United States will continue to provide, as I said at the top,
Ukraine with what it needs to defend itself.  That is incredibly
important.  That is a promise that the President made to President
Zelenskyy when he was here not too long ago.  And that’s including air
defense system.  
  
Along with our allies and partners, as I just said, we will continue our
work to hold Russians’ forces accountable for the atrocities that
they’ve caused and also the war crimes.  
  
But one of the things that we continue to see Russia do is that they
underestimate the strength and the courage and the resolve of the
Ukrainian people, and they will be proven wrong again in their latest
attempts.  
  
Q    And the debt ceiling — it’s supposed to reach its ceiling on
Thursday.  How do you see the debt ceiling fight playing out?  What’s
your strategy for getting an agreement?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, we have been very clear on this.  And I said
it at the top, I said it on Friday, and I’ll say it today — so has the
President: This should not be political brinksmanship.  We should be
dealing with the debt ceiling without — without conditions.  It is
important.  We’re not going to work our way around this; we’re not going
to negotiate on this. This is the basic — the basic duties of Congress
is to deal with this issue.  
  
And let’s not forget: In the last administration, they — “they,” meaning
Democrats and Republicans — were able to deal with the debt limit three
times.  Three times.  
  
So, this is something that needs to be done, that should be done.  And
we call on Congress to act.  
  
Q    And, lastly, is the President going to sit down with Republicans
and talk about this?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, this is something that should be done without
conditions.  We have been very, very clear about that.  We are not going
to be negotiating over the debt ceiling.   
  
But I’ll say this more broadly: At the start of the new Congress — and I
actually spoke about this last week — we’re reaching out to all members
in both parties to build relationships and establish points of contact. 
That is something that the Office of Leg Affairs has done for the past
couple of weeks.  
  
But, you know, this has been done — when you talk about the debt
ceiling, it has been done in a bipartisan way, and there should be
bipartisan cooperation to address this.  It should not be a political
football.  This should not be a political football.  And we should do it
without conditions.  
  
Go ahead, Phil.  And then I’ll come to the back.  
  
Q    The President and his team had a pretty clear strategy and list of
goals heading into this year.  Is there any concern that that may be
kind of overtaken by what’s been happening over the course of the last
week with the investigation?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, I just talked about, last week, what — what we
saw about with the economic plan.  We saw the CPI data, and it’s showing
that inflation is indeed going down because of the President’s economic
policy.   
  
We have seen the President do bipartisan work, bring both sides together
— when you think about going to the bridge in Kentucky.  And you saw
that for yourselves, how the President was able to bring both sides
together to talk about an issue that was so important for that region in
Kentucky; to talk about infrastructure, something that many presidents
before this President had tried to do and were not able to do it.   
  
In the last administration, it was a punchline.  It was a joke when we
talked about Infrastructure Week.  And now, under this President, we’ve
been able to do it in a bipartisan way.   
  
Look, we’re going to continue to do the work.  We’re going to have
mayors here in a couple of days.  We’ll share more information about
that event, and the President will talk to them about the work that we
are doing and the work that we’re going to continue for the American
people.   
  
We went to Mexico City just about a week ago.  We were in Mexico City —
feels like two weeks ago — but, yes, we were in Mexico City about a week
ago.  And you saw the President on the world stage talking to our
closest partners in North America about how we’re going to deal with
issues that matter to the American people.  And you saw the friendly
engagement.  You saw how successful the NALS — the NALS — that summit
was.   
  
And so, that’s not going to stop the President.  He is very much focused
on what are we going to do to lower cost, what are we going to do to
continue to lower cost, what are we going to do to continue to deliver
for the American people.  
  
And let me add, too, what Republicans are putting forward.  House
Republicans — the extreme members of the House, the MAGA Republicans,
are talking about raising taxes for middle-class Americans.  They’re
talking about giving a tax break for the wealthiest among us.  That’s
what they want to do.  They’re talking about attacking women’s rights to
choose.  That’s what they want to put forward.   
  
And the President is going to speak against that as well and try to make
sure that we deliver for the American people.  We can do both.  
  
Q    And should we assume — the President weighed in on the issue a
couple of times last week — but given the limitations, given what you’ve
talked about from the podium — that we shouldn’t expect the President to
give his thoughts or opinions on the ongoing investigation, going
forward?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  It is a — and you just said it’s an ongoing matter. 
Right?  This is an ongoing legal process that’s happening currently. 
And we are going to continue what we’ve been doing for the last two
years, which is: When it comes to the Department of Justice, when it
comes to legal issues, we will not comment.  We are going to be prudent
from here.  We are not going to political interfe- — politically
interfere.   
  
Because one of the things that the President was very clear during the
campaign and has been for the last two years is that we want to give
back the independence that the Department of Justice has.  
  
Go ahead, Peter.  And then, I’ll come to the back.  
  
Q    Karine, just to follow up, if I can, very quickly on this.  The
White House says Republicans are “faking outrage” on this issue.  Why
shouldn’t Americans be outraged about classified documents being found
in a garage?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look — and I think I’ve been very clear about this. 
We have answered questions on this at this podium.  You’ve heard, as
Phil was saying, twice from the President talk about this.  He said that
he didn’t know.  Right?  He said that he was surprised.  And he said
that he takes classified information and documents very, very
seriously.  We heard directly from the President on this issue.   
  
Now, anything else — anything beyond that, we’re just not going to talk
about.  There is an investigation going on.  There’s a legal process
here, as we’ve been very, very clear about.  I will let the White House
Counsel talk about any specific details about that.  But we’re going to
be prudent here and make sure that we are not interfering in this
process.   
  
Q    I guess that’s why I’m asking, though — because you’ve said that
you don’t want interfere here and be prudent about the process, but the
White House did post a statement saying that Republicans are “faking
outrage.”  So, to that point, why shouldn’t Americans be upset about
documents found in a garage?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And that’s for — that’s for the American people to
decide.  Right?  That is for — you all are, I’m sure, going to talk to
many folks out there and have this conversation.   
  
But what we do know — right? — what we do know from polling that we have
seen over and over again, from your coverage, from what we hear when the
President goes out and talk to the — talks to the American people: They
also care about the economy, right?  They also care about what is the
President doing to lower costs, which is why he took histeric \[sic\] —
historic action in making sure that gas prices went down at the gas
pump.  And we saw that happen by more than a buck seventy cents.   
  
And that’s the work that the President is going to focus on.  You think
about the Inflation Reduction Act.  That’s going to lower — lower
prescription drug costs, lower medical costs, right?  When you think
about that — lower energy costs.   
  
So, that’s going to be our focus here.  We know that’s what the American
people truly care about as well.  And it is very important for them that
we do that work.  
  
I’m going to try and go to the back.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  Just back on the tanks.  It seems that
everybody is talking about tanks the last few days.  In Europe, there’s
been a bunch of countries saying they either want to give tanks or
people should give tanks.  And then the Germans have been, you know, on
the fence about it.  Everyone is talking about it, but nothing is
actually happening, apart from the Brits — but, of course, they’re not
part of the European Union.  
  
The President has positioned himself as, you know, the leader of this
whole alliance, pretty much.  Right?  Is this a moment when he feels
maybe he should step in as the leader and either, you know, cajole —
well, you probably wouldn’t want to use that word — but, you know, talk
to the Germans, or go with the U.S. tanks, the Abrams?  
  
Is something going to happen, you know, in — shortly?  Because this
feels like a bit of a boiling point.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, a couple of things here.  And the President’s view
hasn’t changed.  And I kind of said it when I was answering Zeke’s
question, which is: He believes that it’s up to each country to make
their own sovereign decisions here on what types of security assistance
and what kinds of equipment they’re able to provide Ukraine as Ukraine
defends itself against Russia’s brutal — brutal aggression.   
  
For instance, we welcome Germany’s recent announcement that they will
send infantry fighting vehicles and Patriot missiles battery system to
Ukraine.  We also support the decision by the UK, as I was asked over
the weekend, to send Challenger tanks to Ukraine.  We welcome that.   
  
We have seen incredible solidarity by nations around the world to
support Ukraine.  And — and also, I know that Secretary Austin is
hosting another meeting of the Ukrainian — of the Ukraine Contact
Group.  That — it was just happening just this Friday, this week.   
  
And we look forward to further discussions on how this broad coalition
of allies and partners can continue to support Ukraine as Russia
continues — again, continues this brutal war and barbaric war against
the Ukrainian people.   
  
But again, as I said at the top, you know, we — it’s up to each country
to make their own decisions on this.   
  
Q    So, no — no Abrams?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, again, when it comes to — when it comes to these
types of security assistance decision, it is up to each country to make
that decision, and we leave it to them.   
  
Q    Okay.  A very quick one on documents, if you don’t mind.  Given
these documents have shown up in very personal spaces — we all know that
the President loves his Delaware home and it’s an extremely personal
space for him — is he physically joining in the search for these things,
rummaging around, you know, these boxes in the garage and wherever else
— I mean, literally?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Are you — are you listening to your — the question
that you’re asking me?  
  
Q    No, it’s a — no, it’s a — it’s serious matter —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I mean —  
  
Q    — where are these documents.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay, look —  
  
Q    It’s a serious matter.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Look —  
  
Q    Is he taking part in searching for his own documents?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I’m going to be very consistent here.  I am
going to be very clear here, as I have been for the past couple of days
— almost a week now — dealing with this.   
  
You know, we are going to — any specific questions that you have about
this issue, I would refer you to my colleagues at the White House
Counsel’s Office, who spent almost an hour taking these questions from
all of you, many of your colleagues.  
  
I’m going let you ask that question to the White House Counsel’s
Office.  And anything else specific to this, I refer you to the
Department of Justice, I refer you to the Special Counsel.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    On Mon- — thank, Karine.  On Monday, in regards to police
shootings, the President said, I think, “I did…the only thing I
<s>can</s> \[could\] do.”  Is it the opinion of the White House that
there will be no more progress on the issue of police reform going
forward, that there’s just nothing more to do?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, the President has been very clear in asking
Congress to take action.  He has taken executive action.  I’m sure
you’ve covered a lot of the actions that he’s taken the past two years. 
And he believes it’s — it’s now in the hands of Congress to take
action.  And it is important to do just that.  And I will leave it
there.   
  
Q    One more.  Stephen Curry — I’m on a first-name basis now,
apparently —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I know.  Buddies.  (Laughter.)  
  
Q    He —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You guys are bud- — they don’t even let me call him
Stephen Curry.  
  
Q    He mentioned the freeing of Brittney Griner.  But does the White
House have any comment on the detention of Siamak Namazi, who’s in Iran
and on hunger strike and sent a letter to the President?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, we received the letter, and our thoughts are with
Namazi and his family.  We remain committed to securing his freedom. 
And the U.S. government is continuing to work to bring him home, along
with U.S. citizens who are wrongfully detained in Iran, including Emad
Shargi and Morad Tahbaz.   
  
Iran’s use of wrongful detention as political leverage is outrageous. 
The U.S. will always stand for our citizens overseas.  We’ve been very
clear about that and committed.  And you’ve seen the President take
action, and you’ve heard the President say that directly.   
  
One of our highest priorities is bringing all of our wrongfully detained
citizens home safely, as soon as possible, and resolving the cases of
missing and abducted U.S. citizens.  So, this will continue to be a
priority for the American people — for the President.   
  
Go ahead, Karen.  
  
Q    Does the White House have any reaction to the arrest in New Mexico
of a former Republican candidate for the state house there who was
allegedly organizing men to shoot at the homes of four Democratic
elected officials?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have a comment on that at this time.  I’ve
heard the stories; I just need to check with the team to get the full
rundown.  But I don’t have a comment at this time on that.  
  
Go ahead, Weijia.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  I want to follow up on Cecilia’s question, and
sorry if I missed it.  But on Friday, did you or did you not know about
the additional five pages?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I already an- — I literally just answered that
question.  I just —  
  
Q    Was — but I — I missed it.  So, was it yes or no?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I — I mean, you’re — you’re not too far sitting
next to her.  So, I was very clear.  I provided — I provided the
information that you all had at the time.  And I confirm —   
  
Q    But I’m asking, “Did you know?”  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I did not know.  I’m saying I had the information
— I actually said this to Cecilia — I had the information that you all
had at the time, right?   
  
And so, this is why — I also said to Cecilia — this is why we are trying
to be very prudent here and we are trying to be very consistent and say
this is an on-going legal process.  And this is why I say we’re just not
going to comment from here.  That is a perfect example in Cecilia’s
question, and I was very clear about that.   
  
Q    When did you learn about the documents found at the Penn Center in
November and in Wilmington in December?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  When your team was — was doing a story on it.  
  
Q    Got it.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Because I was also asked a similar question about if
our team has been engaged on this.  And I’ve been very clear this is
something that the White House Counsel is handling.  This is something
that is being handled by the President’s lawyers.  I’ve been very
clear.  And that’s why we are — this is why we are being prudent here. 
This is why we are being consistent with what we have done the last two
years when it comes to DOJ — the Department of Justice — investigation. 
We are just not going to interfere.  
  
Q    Well, on that note —  
  
Q    But did the President —  
  
Q    — on that note, you’ve repeatedly emphasized the need, just as you
did today, for independence, for integrity of the Department of Justice
investigation — one reason why you continue to point us to the DOJ.  So
I wonder why, then, did the White House Counsel go to Wilmington to
facilitate the handing over of documents to the DOJ?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  That is a —  
  
Q    How is that separate?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  That is —  
  
Q    How is that separating the White House from the DOJ?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And, Weijia, I appreciate the questions.  I know
there’s going to continue to be dozens of more questions, probably,
today.  And I will say: Reach out to the White House Counsel’s Office. 
That’s one of the reasons my colleague was on the phone with many of
you, taking questions today.   
  
And I’m just going to leave it there.  That is something for them to
answer.  
  
Q    Okay, but it’s related to something that you keep telling us, which
is how much it is important to this White House to separate the White
House from the DOJ’s investigation.  But the White House Counsel was the
one to go and facilitate the documents, to look for the documents.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, they have been working very closely with the
Department of Justice.  I would refer you to them.  If you want to know
specifically about their actions, specifically about what they’re doing,
I would point you to the White House Counsel’s Office.  
  
Look, guys, you guys can ask me this 100 times, 200 times, if you wish. 
I’m going to keep saying the same thing.   
  
I hear your question.  It’s been asked.  It’s been answered.  It’s been
noted.  And we’re just going to try to move on here.   
  
And we’re going to move on.  We’re going to move on.  
  
Q    One more.  
  
Q    Do you feel badly that you gave out false information?  
  
Q    One more.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We’re going to move on.   
  
Q    One more because Ian did have that call today, and he said that the
White House would, quote, “fully cooperate” with the investigation. 
Does that mean that President Biden is willing to be interviewed if
called?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m just not going to — you’re asking a question that
should go to the White House Counsel’s Office.  As you just said, Ian —
you spoke to my colleague just moments ago.  That is something that the
White House Counsel’s Office should be answering.  
  
Any speci- — anything specific to the DOJ or Special Counsel, what
they’re doing, you need to reach out to them.   
  
Go ahead, Tam.  
  
Q    Yeah, are you upset that you came out to this podium on Friday with
incomplete and inaccurate information?  And are you concerned that it
affects your credibility up here?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, what I’m — what I’m concerned about is making
sure that we do not politically interfere in the Department of Justice,
that we continue to be consistent over the last two years, and — and
that is — continue to refer you all, when it comes to an ongoing
process.  And — and I’ll just leave it there.  And let’s not forget —
there was actually a statement from the Counsel’s Office that you all
had at the same time as well.   
  
I’m — I’m just not going to go down any rabbit hole here.  I’m going to
be very consistent.  I’m going to be very prudent.   
  
And, again, I’ve been asked — just asked that question.  I’ve answered
it.  It’s been noted, the question.  And we’re just going to move on.  
  
Go ahead, JJ.   
  
Q    Thanks.  So just to clarify on the debt ceiling again: So the White
House has no intention of sitting down with Leader McCarthy on the debt
ceiling in the coming month or at all?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What we’re saying here is that — we’ve been very, very
clear.  It was clear at the top.  It was clear when I was just asked
this question.  Congress is going to need to address the debt without
conditions.  And — and it’s just that simple.  This should not be —
there should be no hostage taking here.  There should be no attempts to
exploit the debt ceiling or to leverage it.  We’re going to be very,
very clear about that.   
  
And again — and I said this before — this was done three times under the
last administration in a bipartisan way.  This is the duty of Congress. 
This is something that is their basic duty: to deal with the debt
ceiling.   
  
And so we’re going to continue to be consistent here about that.  And
again, there should be no po- — this should not be used as a political
football.  
  
Q    So we can accurately report that the White House isn’t doing any
outreach to Republicans at this time?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well — well, I — I have said — I said just moments
ago, one of the things that we did — and I laid this out pretty clearly
— when the new Congress started, we reached out to Republicans and
Democrats alike to talk about who their point of contact is, to have
that conversation, to figure out how we’re going to work together.  And
so I’ve — I’ve — there is constant conversations happening with — with
members of Congress and their — and their team.  That is something that
we are doing almost on a — certainly on a weekly basis.  And that always
is going to happen.  Those conversations are always going to happen.   
  
I’m certainly not going to read out every conversation that we’re having
with — with congressional members or congressional staff.   
  
What I am saying is that we have been very clear that this should be
done.  We’re talking about the debt ceiling.  It should be done without
conditions, and it should not be used as a political football.  
  
Q    I just wanted to go back to the bilat earlier and the one last week
with the Prime Minister of Japan.  These are two countries that are huge
players in the semiconductor chain.  Have you made any progress in
getting those countries to join the efforts that the U.S. has started to
restrict China’s access to those semiconductors, to that technology?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I just want to be very clear on this as well: We
don’t push any of our allies or our partners.  We consult with them
closely, and they make their own decisions.  And this is how we move
forward with our relationship, again, with our allies and partners.   
  
We all recognize the importance of this issue to national security, and
the President did discuss it along with a host of other important
regional and global issues.   
  
Look, this is going to be a continuing part of a group consultation
here.  And I don’t have any announcements to make or anything further to
share on this.   
  
Q    But does the President feel that the U.S. can be successful in
preventing China from getting that technology if these types of
countries, like the Netherlands, like Japan, don’t join — even if it’s
not exactly the same restriction, but don’t join in those types of
efforts?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, we’re just not going to push our partners and
allies here.  I — again, the President — it did come up in their
conversation.  I’m just not going to — getting into a specific
conversations of what happened or what was said.  
  
What we believe is that our close allies and partners make their own
decisions on these types of things.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Karine, is there a bipartisan plan for our youth today?  Do we have
a focus on either education?  Are we looking at — I just wanted to
soften the mood a little bit in the room.  (Laughs.)  But is there
anything that we’re focusing on, in terms of education, in terms of
funding, funding programs that we’ve come to the table to agree upon?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, thank you for your question.  Look, the
Department of Education, which — which is leading on that — on education
and what we’re doing to deliver for young people — certainly is a
priority for this President and for the Department of Education.   
  
I don’t have any specific programs or new programs to announce from
here.  But that is — you know, making sure that young people have the —
what they need for — to have a good, strong education — of course is a —
is a priority from — for this President.   
  
And let’s not forget the First Lady is an educator herself.  And she —
and she talks about that and has done the work as well, as First Lady,
on the things that this administration is doing to move — to move that
ball forward.  
  
Don’t have — again, don’t have anything specific to share.  But clearly,
it’s a priority for us and our young people across — millions and
millions of young people across the country to make sure that they have,
you know, just and fair opportunities that they should have.  
  
Go ahead.  I’ll come to you in a little bit.  
  
Q    Yeah, thanks.  Yeah, thanks, Karine.  So I want to ask you about
trade.  We’re days away now from the President being two years in
office, and there have been no completed trade deals.  Why not?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So a couple of — a couple of — a couple of things
here.  So when the President was running, he made clear that we will
invest in American workers and communities before pursuing new trade
deals.  And this is exactly what we’ve been doing.  You’ve seen it for
yourself.  You’ve heard the — heard the investments that have been made,
especially as you think about manufacturing coming back to the U.S., and
that is exactly what we’re going to continue to do.   
  
So you’ve seen our economic agenda spur a historic recovery and a
manufacturing boom at home.  More than 750,000 manufacturing jobs were
created right here, under this President.

At the same time, we’re working —

Q    Most added back, though.  Most of the jobs added back.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We — we go — we —

Q    It created 149,000.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We — we — we go back and forth on this, Ed.

Q    Yeah.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:   I — I hear you.  I’m — I’m — 750,000 jobs.  Let me
finish your — your answer.   
  
Q    Sure.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You asked me a question.

But, at the same time, we are working swiftly to finalize the
Indo-Pacific Economic Framework, which represent 40 percent of the
world’s GDP and will address the core issues that will define much of
our success in the coming decades, like clean ener- — energy and the
digital economy, while fortifying our economies against a range of
threats from fragile supply chains to tax havens.

We are committed in every region of the world to strengthen trade and
investment in a manner that promotes good-paying American jobs and also
high standards and supply chain resiliency.  And that has been the
President’s priority.

At every step of the way, we will work with Congress to negotiate and
develop trade policies that advance the interests of all Americans,
support U.S. innovation and workers, and enhance our competitiveness. 
And that has been the President’s priority.  That is what he talked
about during the campaign.  And that’s what he’s been doing and
delivering on for the past two years.

I’ll go around.  Go ahead, April.

Q    Karine, two questions.  You just, from the podium — in an answer to
one of the reporters, you said something about not wanting to
politically interfere when it comes to this investigation on the
documents.   
  
I asked you, when we first heard about the documents, there is a
political component and a legal component.  But can you expound upon
what you don’t want to interfere on politica- — politically?   
  
Because many pundits, many lawyers, many politicians are saying that
this is also an issue that could prohibit a lot of work in this one
hundred — with the 118th Congress, a lot of work for the American people
in this moment.  Could you expound on what you were talking about?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, look, I’m not going to get into politics from
here, and I’ve been very clear about that.  I’ve answered that question
multiple times already.

What I can say is that the President is going to stay laser-focused on
delivering for the American people.  And that’s going to continue to be
the work that he sees at hand.   
  
When it comes to the economy; when it comes to the bipartisan
infrastructure legislation; when it comes to implementing the Inflation
Reduction Act, which we announced a couple of items last week on how
important it’s going to be for Medicare to negotiate — that is something
that is going to be critical for the American families, for American
people across the country: being able to negotiate the price of drugs
and tap it — cap it at — you know, at $2,000 a year.   
  
That’s going to make a difference in people’s lives — right? —
continuing to do the work that he has been doing to lower costs.

And we’ve seen that.  We’ve seen that the President’s economic plan is
indeed working.  And so, look, that is not going to stop us.  That is
something we’re going to continue to talk about.   
  
And you’re seeing — you’re seeing how the work that he’s put in the last
two years — his administration, the work that he’s done with Congress in
a bipartisan way, in historic fashion — is actually working.  And so
that’s going to be our focus.

Q    And last question.  In this moment, there are Democrats who are
saying they’re looking to tomorrow — it’s a bright spot for Democrats —
with the inauguration of Wes Moore as Maryland’s first Black governor,
as the third Black elected governor in the nation.

What does the President say and what does this White House say about his
elevation — this citizen who rose to the highest heights in the state of
Maryland, especially as he campaigned for him?  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, the President is very much looking forward to
working with Governor Wes Moore.  And, you know, you saw the governor —
I don’t even know — is he a governor-elect yet, or has he been —

Q    He’s governor-elect right now.  Tomorrow, he’s governor.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  He’s a governor-elect.  So I want to be — I want to
give him the right title here.   
  
And you saw — you saw Wes Moore — Governor-elect Wes Moore and the
President many times over the last several months.  They developed a
friendship.  The President is very much looking forward to working with
him.   
  
And we think it’s important — it’s important to have that
representation.  It’s important to have someone as — you know, someone
who is qualified and passionate about the work as Wes Moore be — you
know, be in a position where he can make a change and make a difference
for Marylanders.  And so, that is critically important.

Look, you know, there is bright spots.  There are — just if you look
across the country, what we saw in state elections and what we saw with
governorships, what we saw in — in other really key, important states —
state — state offices, it was a bright spot.

And let’s not forget, one of the reasons that we saw that is because of
the President’s plan, the President’s agenda, and what he was able to
set forth for the midterms.

Remember, everyone was talking about the red wave, and that didn’t
happen.  And that didn’t happen because of the President’s leadership.

Go ahead, Steven.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  I just wanted to ask you — sorry — I just
wanted to ask you about something you said last week. 

Last week, you were pretty insistent that you believed the President’s
attorneys did the right thing.  Do you still believe that?  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yes, they did the right thing when it comes to making
sure that when the documents were found, they handed it over to the
Archivist and it was handed over to Department of Justice.

But, again, Steve, I’m going to be very prudent here.  I am going to be
very consistent.  It is an ongoing legal process.  I’m not going to say
more.

Q    But the reason I ask is — is that what we now know — and the
President’s Counsel’s statement, the President’s personal lawyer’s
statement shed a bit more light on this, but they raised more
questions.  Namely, the first call that the President’s personal
attorneys made on November 2nd was not to the FBI that they had found
what we now know were top-secret documents out in the open.  The first
call was to officials here at this White House in the West Wing.  How is
that the right thing?

Isn’t it the right thing, when you see some- — if you’re a lawyer and
your — you don’t have a security clearance and you see a classified
document, shouldn’t you call the Justice Department’s National Security
office right away?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, I’m going to refer you to the White House
Counsel’s Office.  That is something for them to answer.  That is a very
specific question that they should answer, that they will engage you
with — engage with on — you on this, just like my colleague did for
almost an hour and had this conversation with all of you.

Q    It was about a half hour, but let me — let me widen now.  Why is it
the matter of this White House Counsel to deal with documents from two
administrations ago?  These are — we’re not talking about presidential
records from this White House.  Why is this White House Counsel involved
in this matter at all?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, this is something for the White House Counsel
to address.  I am not going to address that from here.  I will refer you
to them, and I will refer you to the Special Counsel and anything that’s
— that is specific to this particular issue.

Q    Karine, we —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We’re being pulled.

WHITE HOUSE AIDE:  Folks have to gather.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We have to — folks have to gather.  Okay, folks have
to gather.  I’ll see you guys tomorrow.

Q    You told us something six times that turned out to be false.  Are
you sorry about that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’ll see you tomorrow.  Come talk to me.  I’ll see you
tomorrow.

2:40 P.M. EST
