---
date: '2023-01-23'
published_time: 2023-01-23 20:32:24-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2023/01/23/on-the-record-press-call-by-white-house-spokesperson-ian-sams/
tags: press-briefings
title: "On-the-Record Press Call by White\_House Spokesperson Ian\_Sams"
---
 
Via Teleconference

4:20 P.M. EST

MS. YANG: Hi, everyone. Thank you so much for your patience. Apologies
that we are getting started a little late. Looks like a couple of people
still trickling in. But we’ll go ahead and get started.

Just a reminder, today’s call with White House spokesperson Ian Sams is
on the record and embargoed until the completion of the call.

By participating in this call, you are agreeing to these ground rules.

As occurred last time, Ian will give some brief opening remarks, and
then we’ll move into Q&A. As always, please indicate whether or not you
have a question with the “Raise Hand” function.

And with that, I will turn it over to Ian.

MR. SAMS: Thanks, guys. And, Sharon, thank you all for getting on the
call today. Really appreciate it.

I hope you guys also had a good weekend and that you’re starting your
week off strong.

I have brief updates at the top here, and then we can jump in to
questions and spend some time on Q&A.

So, first, this morning, the White House Counsel sent a letter to the
Chairman of the House Oversight Committee in response to inquiries that
he has made about documents and requesting documents and material on
this issue. We can provide that letter if you would like to receive it.
Please just email Sharon.

In it, the White House Counsel congratulated Chairman Comer on his new
position leading the committee, explained that the White House does not
have possession of the documents that the Archives and DOJ have taken
into their possession, and stressed the importance of protecting the
integrity and independence of law enforcement investigations.

But we did respond to the Chairman. That’s consistent with our position.
As the President has said, that he is prepared to work in good faith
with Congress. And we’re going to engage in conversations with the
committee to determine next steps.

Second, as you all saw this weekend, the President’s personal lawyer
released a statement transparently disclosing a voluntary DOJ search of
the President’s residence in Wilmington on Friday. As he said, the
search lasted about 13 hours. They had access to every room of his
house. And as we said in our statement from the White House Counsel’s
Office, this action was consistent with the President’s commitment to
cooperate with DOJ throughout this process.

This was an unprecedented offer for DOJ to thoroughly search the
personal family home of the President of the United States to ensure
that any documents that should be in the possession of the government
were in the possession of the government. And it reveals how seriously
the President is taking this issue and how actively he is cooperating
with the ongoing investigation.

I also want to be sure that you all saw, in response to this search,
that the Department of Justice responded on the record, saying it was,
quote, “a planned consensual search.”

So, I know there’s been a lot of confusion about that, so let me be very
clear: The President offered DOJ access to his home. It was voluntary.
They had unprecedented ability to access decades’ worth of old,
personally handwritten notes; files; papers; to-do lists; memorabilia;
and other materials in his home.

They identified some additional material and took possession of it. DOJ
had asked the President’s personal lawyer not to disclose the search
until it had concluded, and, of course, we agreed, given our full
cooperation.

But we promptly made it known to you all, consistent with what we’ve
told you about keeping you updated as we have information to share,
while obviously also carefully protecting the integrity of the
investigation.

And with that, I’m happy to take your questions. Give me just one
second.

Okay, sorry about that. Just had an unmuting issue on my end. Nancy
Cordes, CBS.

Q Hey, Ian. Thank you so much for doing this. I was  
wondering if you could tell us who is paying the President’s personal
attorney. It seems like this could lead to some pretty hefty legal
bills. So is the President and his family paying the bills? Or is it the
DNC or a super PAC? Where will the money come from?

MR. SAMS: Thanks for that question, Nancy. On that, I’m going to have to
refer you to Molly Levinson, who is leading communications for the
President’s personal attorney. We can get you her contact if you need
it.

Zeke Miller, AP.

Q Thanks, Ian. The President said that he was — when the initial
documents were found at the Biden Center — that he was surprised that
there were classified doc- — materials there. Was he surprised that
classified materials were at his home? He has not answered that. Did he
know that the items taken by DOJ were there in his — in his home?

And then, will there be searches of the President’s other home in
Delaware or of the Penn Biden Center? And does the President consent to
those?

MR. SAMS: I’m just writing that down so I don’t forget.

Thank you. So, on the first question, look, I think it’s really
important to take a step back and understand sort of exactly how he’s
approaching this process.

His lawyers made the discovery of an additional document in the room
adjacent to the garage, as we announced previously; made the President
aware that that material was at the house; and the President offered DOJ
to come do a thorough search to ensure that any government documents
that may be there that should be in the possession of the government are
returned to the government.

And so, it underscores how seriously he’s taking this issue that he
would proactively and voluntarily disclose to DOJ these findings as soon
as they occur, and that he would take the step of giving access to the
home to DOJ to do an exhaustive search of the premises.

The President spoke to this in the initial comments you’re talking
about. The President’s lawyers have made him aware as additional
material has been discovered and has kept him abreast of this process as
it moves along.

On your second question, the — I’m going to be very careful not to get
ahead of potential future investigatory steps. I would refer you to DOJ
on how they’re making those decisions. We’re following the DOJ’s lead
here, and the President’s personal attorneys are in open communication
with the department. But we’re not going to get ahead of any potential
future investigative steps.

Steve Holland.

Q Hey. Thanks, Ian. The statement on Saturday said that there had been
six documents found with classified markings and some other materials.
Can you describe those other materials in any way just to give a little
more clarity of what that was? And that’s about it.

MR. SAMS: Thanks, Steve. So, I’ll point you to what the statement from
the President’s personal attorney said — that — that six items were
consisting of documents with the classification markings and surrounding
materials, some of which were from the President’s service in Senate,
some of which from his tenure as Vice President. And the DOJ also took
for further review personally handwritten notes from the vice
presidential years.

I’m not going to go beyond the statement at this time. You know, we —
we’re being very careful not to give too much commentary on the
underlying materials of this. Those are in possession of the DOJ and
will be a part of their ongoing investigation. And so, when it comes to
specific contents and materials, I’d refer you to DOJ.

Sorry, just a minute. Akayla Gardner, Bloomberg.

Q Hey, Ian. Thanks for taking my question. I wanted to ask: What was the
thought about allowing lawyers without security clearance to sort of
conduct these searches initially? It kind of seems like that has
prolonged this process. And are you recommending that any future
searches be conducted by FBI agents?

MR. SAMS: Yeah, thanks for — for those questions. So, as we said — as
the President’s personal attorney said in the statement that was
released last weekend outlining all the processes and procedures that
were in place on the initial searches, those were coordinated with DOJ.

Like we’ve said from the very beginning, the President’s team has been
fully cooperating with DOJ, working with them throughout this process,
ensuring they have access to the information that they need.

The President’s personal attorneys, last weekend, put out a pretty
extensive and lengthy statement about the protocols and processes in the
agreements that were set up to conduct those searches. You guys all
should have access to that. If you don’t, I’m happy to make sure you do.

And, you know, we are fully cooperating with DOJ, working with them
throughout their investigative steps here and coordinating with them on
any needs going forward. So, in terms of the searches, potential
searches, things like that, I’m not going to get ahead of any decisions
that are made. But, you know, we’re fully cooperating with DOJ.

Mary Bruce.

Q Hi, there. Thank you for doing this. I just wanted to follow up. I
didn’t hear an answer to Zeke’s question about whether the President
was, in fact, surprised that these documents were found — the additional
documents found over the weekend.

And also, I know you said this was a consensual, sort of, coordinated
search by the FBI last Friday, but who initiated that conversation? Was
it the FBI requesting to come in and then you all agreeing to that? Or
was it your decision and your idea that the FBI come in and do that
search? And similarly, have you invited them to come to Rehoboth and to
that house as well?

MR. SAMS: Thanks. And so, on that second one, you know, this was a
voluntary, proactive offer by the President’s personal lawyers to DOJ to
have access to the home. DOJ, obviously, came on Friday and conducted
that extensive search of the house.

We released statements on Saturday — long ones — from the President’s
personal attorney and from the White House Counsel’s Office describing
those searches: what was found, how they worked, et cetera. So I would
point you to those.

But it was a voluntary, proactive offer by the personal lawyers for DOJ
to come.

On the former question, the President’s lawyers have kept him informed
throughout this process as they’ve been in negotiations — or
discussions, I should say, with DOJ. He has — they’ve been kept aware by
his lawyers as material has been found. And I’d point you to that and to
the statements that the President made last week.

Alex Nazaryan.

Alex, you there? Alex? Alex? Going once. Going twice.

Okay, let’s see. Let’s go to Andrew Restuccia, please.

Q Thanks. Just real quick, do you — did the President — did the
President’s lawyers or the FBI have any plans to look into the — Mr.
Biden’s Senate papers that are all held at the University of Delaware,
given that Senate materials have now been included in the materials that
were found?

And just to clarify, does the White House know what was in the materials
that were taken from Wilmington on Friday? Has the White House been
briefed by the FBI on those materials?

MR. SAMS: Hey, thanks for that. I’m sorry. I was just getting off mute
again.

On the first question, in terms of accessing materials, you know, I’d
refer you to DOJ for specific questions about, you know, where they may
want to pursue information gathering. We’re not going to get ahead of
that process.

Obviously, we respect the independence of the Justice Department to make
determinations about how to conduct its own investigations. The
President’s personal lawyers, I think as we have said throughout this
process, are in full cooperation with DOJ to have these discussions.

And so, when it comes to any potential future investigative steps,
reviews of material, things that they may want to do, we’re just not
going to speak to that from here at this time. And I will point you to
Justice Department on that.

In terms of the contents of the search on Friday, you know, I would
point you to the statements that were released both by us and by the
President’s personal lawyers — the personal lawyer — I just reiterated a
minute ago, the statement that we released that laid out exactly what
was taken.

You know, when it comes to underlying contents, I want to be really
careful not to speak to some of those, as they are part of the ongoing
investigation and review by the Justice Department. They are in the
possession of the Justice Department for them to review the materials.

And so, you know, just out of respect for that process of them
conducting their investigation and ensuring that it has the integrity it
deserves, we’re going to point you to DOJ for any specific questions
about contents of the materials.

Brooke Singman.

Q Hey, Ian, thanks for doing this. Can you hear me? Sorry.

MR. SAMS: Yeah, I can hear you.

Q Okay, great. Thank you. Sorry. Just a quick question about the
statement on Saturday evening. I know this was from the President’s
personal attorney, but he specifically says that six items containing
classified documents were taken. Are you able to provide any additional
details as to how many classified documents were included in the six
items or what those six items were — folders, binders?

MR. SAMS: Hey, thanks. Look, I understand that there’s a lot of
questions about the underlying material and what they may contain or
further explanations of how that — what that is and what it looks like.
We’re just not going to comment on that at this time, beyond what was in
the statement released by the personal attorneys.

You know, it’s really important that DOJ is able to review this material
and conduct it in the process of their investigation. We don’t want to
be speaking outside of that process.

You know, I think what I said to you guys last week, and continue to
sort of stress and affirm: You know, we are going to try to get you guys
access to important information as much as we can, while also protecting
the integrity of that investigation.

You know, we don’t want to be saying too much about the underlying
investigation, the underlying investigative material, the stuff that’s
in DOJ’s possession that they may or may not be looking at. You know,
those are questions that are much more appropriately handled by the
Justice Department.

And so, when it comes to the questions about the underlying material, I
would point you to the Justice Department.

When it comes to our characterization of the material, I would just
continue to point to the language that we released in the statement from
the President’s personal attorney — or, excuse me, that the President’s
personal attorney released on Saturday — and use that language as what
they were representing as was taken.

Thanks. Tommy Christopher.

Q Hi, Ian. This is Tommy.

MR. SAMS: Hi.

Q Hi. Thanks for taking my question. I guess, I really have two
questions. The first one is: Last week, after you briefed all of us,
some of our colleagues went to Karine’s briefing and complained that
even though you answered questions, that it wasn’t live and it wasn’t
televised. And I’m wondering what you would say to that complaint and —
and what — whether or not there’s a possibility you would brief for the
cameras and just sort of let everybody ask all their questions until
they’re blue in the face.

And then my second question, just because I’m sure somebody is going to
ask it, is — the documents that were retrieved or returned over when
Trump had his — Mar-a-Lago was raided, they took pictures and published
those. Do you have any idea why that wasn’t done in this case? Thank
you.

MR. SAMS: Thanks for that question. On the second one, you know, I’d
refer you to DOJ on sort of specific questions about their — their
processes when it comes to activities like this. I certainly don’t want
to speak for those or comment on any potential ongoing investigation
involving anyone else.

So, in terms of that second question, I would refer you to DOJ.

On the first one, look, I have certainly endeavored to give all of you
in the press corps access to the information that you need. I’ve taken
your questions a couple times. I’ve made myself available for media
interviews.

Look, I think that there’s some of this — in every presidency, you know,
there are many people out there in the media who sort of try to stir up
controversy to get attention or — or time on camera. But I think it’s
important to sort of take a step back here while we’re having this
conversation about these — these issues to look at the sort of
underlying issue that we’re talking about here. The underlying issue
that we’re talking about here is that as soon as the President’s
personal team noticed something, they immediately and promptly and
transparently disclosed that to the proper authorities.

They noticed a document with a classified marking; they immediately
contacted the appropriate authorities.

And ever since that moment, they have been and we, as the White House,
have been fully cooperative with the proper reviews throughout this
process. That’s what we’re talking about.

And — and throughout this process, we’ve tried to give you guys public
information as it’s appropriate, consistent with that ongoing
investigation to respect the integrity of that investigation. Because,
again, the President has been very clear going all the way back to the
campaign. He sees the Justice Department as independent — very important
to keep them independent, to not influence their decision-making.

And I know for, you know, a lot of you guys who have been covering this
for the last few years especially, that may be a foreign concept.

But I think that the American people see it for what it is, which is the
President respecting the appropriate entity who is doing an
investigation and ensuring that they have the independence they need to
conduct that investigation.

And so, you know, we’ll continue to take your questions and answer your
questions about this to try to help you understand the underlying
information as best we can, consistent with respect of the ongoing
investigation. And I hope that — that we can continue this conversation.

Sophia, Axios.

Q Hey, Ian. You know, in the name of cooperation, I’m wondering if you
might be able to confirm that, you know, the White House received a
letter in mid-November from the Justice Department’s National Security
Division asking that Biden’s, you know, lawyers secure the material that
they first found and then to not review any of the documents or look for
any other documents. And if this is true, could you confirm that, you
know, Biden’s lawyers and the White House followed such a request?

MR. SAMS: Thanks for that question. On that particular one, I would need
to refer you to the personal attorneys, as well as to the Justice
Department.

Jordan, Politico.

Q Hey, can you hear me?

MR. SAMS: Yep. I gotcha. How you doing?

Q Good. Thanks for doing the call. I just want to see what you guys made
of some of the criticism you got on the Sunday shows from Senate
Democrats. I’m thinking of Durbin and Manchin in particular.

And then, just sort of a linked question, maybe, just to double check on
our end. Is the White House briefing or keeping congressional Democrats
in the loop as you’re sort of releasing these statements over the last
week or so?

MR. SAMS: Yeah, thanks for that question. So, I’m not going to say too
much about conversations with members of Congress. Obviously, folks in
the White House are constantly in touch with folks on the Hill as part
of our overall engagement with the Hill on issues and agenda items that
are important, so I don’t want to get too into specifics about
conversations that we’ve had with the Hill.

But on the first question, look, I think that some — I was asked this
question earlier today — Senator Durbin, for example, in his interview
yesterday, you know, emphasized again that this President was handling
this responsibly, that he was properly and appropriately cooperating
with the Justice Department, that he was handling this in the right way.
And that full cooperation is the right way that this should be handled.

And so, you know, I think that at the end of the day, we also are fully
cooperating with the Special Counsel and with the Department of Justice.
We, you know, believe in their ability to conduct this investigation,
are working to provide them with access to the information that they
need to conduct the information to — excuse me, to conduct the
investigation thoroughly. And we’re going to continue doing that.

And, you know, at the same time, the President is going to continue
focusing on his priorities. You know, he’s going to — he’s fully
cooperating with this with this process. But at the same time, you know,
there’s a lot of other priorities that he’s focused on. He’s focused on
implementing the legislation that he passed last year.

Just earlier today, we announced that he’ll be traveling next week to
talk about the implementation of the infrastructure bill.

Just last week, for example, we learned that more small businesses had
applied to open in the first two years of this administration than any
two-year stretch in history.

These are the kinds of things that he’s ensuring that he’s communicating
with the American public about. I’m sure that, you know, members on the
Hill are also communicating these things to the American public.

And so, I think, you know, we understand that we can fully cooperate and
be open and transparent in this process as this investigation moves
forward. But we also aren’t going to stop focusing on some of the other
issues that are really important to the American people. And — and I
think that, you know, you’ll see a lot of unifying focus on that among
the President and Democrats on the Hill.

Asma.

Q Hey, Ian. Hi, it’s Asma from NPR. Thanks so much. Quick — a couple
questions for you. One is I just want to make sure I am abundantly clear
in understanding the voluntary, proactive language that you’re referring
to. Does that mean that you all initiated the idea of the — of the FBI
search on the President’s residence, or did you consent to a search?

MR. SAMS: That’s a good question. And I know that these, sorts of, like,
legal machinations can be somewhat confusing. But I think it’s just
important to be as clear as I can: You know, the President’s personal
lawyers, at the direction of the President, offered for the Justice
Department to come to his house and conduct a thorough search of every
room in the house to ensure that any material that should be in the
possession of the government is in possession of the government.

The Department of Justice did that. They came to the house. They
conducted the search. They took away some additional material, fully
cooperatively with — as I think the statement from Bob Bauer this
weekend noted — you know, attorneys from both the personal legal team
and the White House Counsel’s Office present with DOJ as they conducted
that search.

You know, the DOJ confirmed on the record, as I mentioned before, that
this was a — I believe the term was a “planned, consensual search.” So,
this was voluntary on behalf of the President, agreed to have the agents
come on Friday. They conducted the search — a very thorough search that
took nearly 13 hours and took the material that they — that was
announced in the statement on Saturday.

Sorry, just one second.

James Rosen.

Q Thank you very much. Can you hear me all right?

MR. SAMS: Yep.

Q Thank you so much. I have two questions for you. One is: Since the —
the statement from the President’s personal attorney over the weekend
identified the actual number of classified materials that was taken from
the Wilmington residence as part of the FBI’s action — I think that
number was six — would you be kind enough to give us, at this point,
some kind of understanding of the total number of classified documents
from all of the various locations that have been turned over?

And my second question is: I wonder if you could educate the American
people on why Mr. Biden is employing two sets of lawyers. The President
has personal attorneys that we keep hearing about, and he has the White
House Counsel’s Office. And what is the, sort of, division of labor
between them? Thank you.

Q Thanks, James. Appreciate those questions.

On the first one, in terms of the number of documents total, I would
have to point you to the Justice Department on this again. You know, we
are being very careful not to comment specifically on the underlying
materials in the investigation.

The personal attorneys have been very clear, as well as White House
Counsel’s Office, on the protocols that they have followed when they
notice or see a document with classified markings — the things that they
do, the way that it was handed over to the appropriate authorities
promptly so that they could take possession of it — the very process
that we have followed to ensure that this is handled the right way, that
it’s handled responsibly and that the documents in question are in the
possession of the Department of Justice or, in the initial instance, the
National Archives.

The very process that we have followed means that, in some cases, we may
not know all the answers to all the questions about the underlying
material. And so, those are in possession of the Department of Justice.
That would be more appropriate for them to be able to speak to specifics
about the contents of the documents and material. And so, when it comes
to that question, I would just have to point you to the Justice
Department.

On the second question you asked, it’s — it’s a very good one. You know,
the White House Counsel’s Office has institutional responsibilities to
the Office of the President and, of course, the government more broadly.
But as President Biden is the current sitting President of the United
States, you know, there are institutional interests of the White House
and of the government to be involved in matters involving the President.
And the President has personal attorneys to handle his personal affairs.

And so, those are two distinct groups of people who are appropriately,
at times, in communication about these matters. But that would explain,
I think, your question of why there are two sets of lawyers who are
involved.

I got time for a couple more real quick.

Peter Nicholas.

Q Thank you. Can you hear me?

MR. SAMS: Yep. How’s it going?

Q Good, thank you. You have left an impression that we’re talking about
a minimal amount of material. On some occasions, you’ve talked about a
small amount of classified documents found, a few pages found.

But this can be misleading to the public if there are many, many pages
that are part of one document, for example. Or you might reference an
item that’s found. That also can include many, many pages.

Why not just be precise and say the pre- — exact number of pages that
have been found, as opposed to just telling us how many documents and
whether it’s a small amount or a large amount? Why don’t we let the
public decide whether the amount is small or large?

MR. SAMS: Yeah, thanks for the question, Peter. And I think it gets to a
little bit of what we were talking about just a minute ago. You know,
we’re — we’re trying to give you guys access to the information that we
have as it’s appropriate with the investigation.

You know, in terms of underlying specific numbers, contents, things like
that, those are just questions that are more appropriately answered by
the Justice Department.

We are presenting information as we can, consistent with that ongoing
investigation, trying to be as accurate as we can be.

But again, look, you know, you guys have asked — and I’ve answered this
question before, too — you know, about more disclosure; you know, why
things weren’t disclosed earlier at a certain timel you know, questions
about what was disclosed and why it was disclosed. You know, any
investigation that is happening — in any investigation of any kind,
information throughout the course of that investigation is going to
develop.

The Department of Justice is in charge. We’re following their lead.
They’re, you know, running an independent investigation that we are
incredibly mind- — cooperative in and — and mindful of not unduly
influencing.

They make the decisions in their investigation. So, when it comes to,
you know, exact numbers of materials, what the materials are, those are
questions that the Justice Department will be looking at and will be
analyzing in the course of their investigation.

When we provide information publicly, we’re trying to provide accurate
information as best we can to you all based on our knowledge, based on
our access to what we know. You know, and — and that’s why, you know,
it’s being released in the way it’s being released and stated in the way
that it’s stated.

But again, like I said before, in some cases, for example, materials get
handed over immediately to the proper authorities. Members of the
President’s personal legal team, you know, don’t, you know, go through
all the material. They immediately hand it over to the proper
authorities.

And so, that was laid out in the statement that Bob Bauer put out last
weekend outlining how their search protocols have worked.

And so I understand, you know, the interest in the question. You know, I
would argue that it is not an example of us somehow miss- — choosing
specifically to provide, you know, a certain set of information. We’re
trying to provide you the best and most accurate information we have at
our disposal as appropriate with the ongoing investigation.

And so, you know, when it comes to the concrete underlying details of
those documents, of materials that were taken by the Justice Department,
you know, I think those are questions that, appropriately, would be
better handled by the Justice Department. And so, we would have to
encourage you to go to the Justice Department to ask it.

I have time for one last question here before I have to run, and I’m
going to try to give Alexander Nazaryan another chance. I think he had
an audio issue before.

Alex?

Q Can you hear me now?

MR. SAMS: Yes, I’ve got you now.

Q Okay, great. Just looking at that letter, which you guys kindly shared
with us, it — although it doesn’t — although it certainly does not — it
does not indicate that you refuse to cooperate, it — it also seems to me
not to be a — sort of, a full-throated commitment to work with House
Oversight.

And I’m just wondering, you know, if we could pull apart the legalese or
put it aside and just, sort of — again, understanding that part of this
is DOJ’s jurisdiction, how much is the White House willing to do to make
— you know, to sort of — to make an investigation by Republicans in the
House credible to some degree?

MR. SAMS: Can you kind of explain that a little bit more? Sorry, I’m
just — I’m not following exactly what you’re asking.

Q I guess, looking at that letter, it didn’t — it doesn’t strike me that
you are especially eager to cooperate with them, and that would make any
investigation House Oversight conducted incomplete and potentially allow
the White House to say, “Look, this was a partisan investigation.”

But — but, you know, if you were to — if the White House were to
cooperate, that — that investigation would just have a lot more
legitimacy.

I’m just not getting the sense that you are, in fact, pledging
cooperation because the language is pretty similar to what you used last
week when it seemed like you wouldn’t cooperate at all.

MR. SAMS: I think I understand what you’re asking. Let me try to provide
an answer there.

So, in the letter — and again, if folks need that, we’d be happy to
share it — Congressman Comer, who’s the chairman of the House Oversight
Committee, had asked for information from the White House about this
matter. We’ve responded with a letter.

I think, you know, you’re referring to, sort of, how we are approaching
their investigative requests. And, you know, we said to them in the
letter response today that we are taking a look at the letters that they
have sent with a goal of seeking to accommodate legitimate Oversight
interests.

Obviously, we have to respect the separation of powers that exist and
constitutional obligations that exist with certain material. And we,
frankly, also have to take into account — and — and this was stated to
the chairman as well — that we have to protect the integrity of an
ongoing law enforcement investigation, which I’m sure that Congressman
Comer would agree is important to do to protect the integrity of an
ongoing investigation. I’m sure he wouldn’t disagree with that.

And so, we are in communication with the Oversight Committee. We take
this issue seriously. And, you know, we’re approaching them in good
faith and hoping that they approach us in good faith as well.

All right, I thank you so much, everybody, for joining us today. I have
to hop off, but we’ll continue this. And if you guys need anything else,
just shoot me a note, or Sharon. Thanks.

4:57 P.M. EST
