---
date: '2023-01-26'
published_time: 2023-01-26 20:58:46-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2023/01/26/background-press-call-by-senior-administration-officials-on-a-successful-counterterrorism-operation-in-somalia/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Background Press Call by Senior Administration Officials on a Successful Counterterrorism\
  \ Operation in\_Somalia"
---
 
Via Teleconference

3:12 P.M. EST

MODERATOR: Good afternoon, everyone. Thank you for your patience. As a
reminder, this call will be for attribution to “senior administration
officials.” For your awareness, not for reporting, on the line we have
\[senior administration official\] and \[senior administration
official\]. The contents of this call will be embargoed until further
notice from the NSC Press Office.

\[Senior administration official\] and \[senior administration
official\] will both give some initial remarks, and then we will open it
up to Q&A.

So, with that, \[senior administration official\], I’ll hand it over to
you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: Thank you very much, everybody, for
joining us. And I apologize for keeping you waiting a few minutes.
There’s a lot going on today.

Let me begin by telling you what has transpired in the last 24 hours.
Last night, on orders from the President, the U.S. military conducted an
assault operation in northern Somalia that resulted in the death of
Bilal al-Sudani, a key operative and facilitator for ISIS’s global
network, as well as a number of other ISIS operatives.

This precision operation took place in a mountainous cave complex in
northern Somalia. Thankfully, and based on extensive planning and
exquisite execution of the plan, there were no casualties among American
servicemembers or civilians.

In addition to Sudani, the operation killed approximately 10 of Sudani’s
ISIS associates. We had prepared for the possibility of capturing
Sudani, but the hostile forces’ response to the operation resulted in
his death.

We have notified key counterterrorism partners, including the Somali
government, with whom we work closely on a daily basis to protect their
citizens and ours.

As I said, this operation was the result of extraordinary coordination
and careful planning across all elements of the U.S. government for many
months. I and other senior members of the President’s national security
team were first briefed on the intelligence a number of months ago, and
we were regularly updated on the operations planning as it progressed.

Once planning reached a critical stage last week, the Department of
Defense briefed the operation to the President. He was joined by his
Director of National Intelligence, the Director of the National
Counterterrorism Center, the Deputy Director of the CIA, the Attorney
General, and senior members of his national security team.

He authorized it earlier this week after further consultation, including
ensuring that key questions that he had about the risk to our forces and
the impact of the operation on potential civilians in the area had been
answered to his satisfaction.

The President’s decision to approve the operation followed a
recommendation to move forward from his Secretary of Defense, advice
from the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and careful
consideration of its risks and benefits in consultation with his
intelligence community and national security team.

This deliberation included a careful evaluation of whether alternative
options existed to address the threat from Sudani with even lower risk
to U.S. forces. An intended capture operation was ultimately determined
to be the best option to maximize the intelligence value of the
operation and increase its precision in challenging terrain.

At the same time, and based on extensive past experience, we recognize
that even an intended capture operation might well result in Sudani’s
death, as ultimately it did.

The success of yesterday’s operation reflects the extraordinary and
patient work of the Defense Department and its interagency partners
across our government. That included locating Sudani and determining the
nature of his associates. It also included extensive rehearsals of the
operation itself by our military forces, including at sites specifically
built to recreate the terrain where the operation ultimately needed to
take place. And, of course, it included the actual execution that was
careful, precise, and effective.

Indeed, when I pressed my extraordinary Defense Department colleagues
earlier this morning on whether there had been any injuries whatsoever
inflicted on our forces or on civilians, I was advised that there was
indeed one injury and that was a dog bite by one of our own canines on
one of our own service members. That’s how precise and meticulous this
operation was.

So, with that, let me turn this over to \[senior administration
official\] to add a little more context for you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: Thank you very much, \[senior
administration official\]. And thanks to all of you for joining the
call, especially on short notice.

This operation is a significant counterterrorism achievement in itself.
It also needs to be understood in context. The operation reflects key
ways in which the Biden administration’s approach to addressing
international terrorist threats, such as the threats posed by ISIS and
al Qaeda, has evolved over the past two years.

Our approach starts from the fundamental recognition that the terrorism
threat today is more diffuse, ideologically diverse, and geographically
dispersed than it was 20 or so years ago. That means, as you’ve heard us
say before, that we could not afford to allocate our troops globally in
a way that reflected the threat landscape of September 2001, rather than
the threat landscape we actually face today.

Instead, we needed to have the combination of light footprints,
operational agility, and intelligence insight to determine where threats
to Americans arise from now, including, as we have been saying for the
past two years, from Somalia, where al Shabaab as well as ISIS take
advantage of ungoverned spaces to operate with too much freedom and
impunity.

Thus, from over the horizon, we, as a government, have identified
terrorist threats, then used very precise, very carefully calibrated
applications of force where that’s appropriate to address such threats
when they reach the level of requiring us to act, ourselves, to address
it.

That’s the approach that eliminated, early last year, the global leader
of ISIS in an operation in Syria. That’s the approach that took off the
battlefield, last summer, the world’s most wanted terrorist: Ayman
al-Zawahiri, the global leader of al Qaeda at the time. It is also the
approach that has allowed us to capture or kill, at a steady pace, key
ISIS figures in Syria who seek to reconstitute the threat to the world
that ISIS once posed before the United States led a global coalition to
degrade it.

And, of course, we have, at the same time, invested heavily in working
by, with, and through our partners to pursue counterterrorism wherever
possible. We have also prioritized our own non-kinetic efforts, such as
community-level violence prevention.

Through this operation and others, President Biden has made it very
clear that we are committed to finding and eliminating terrorist threats
to the United States and to the American people wherever they are
hiding, no matter how remote. That’s the context for understanding
yesterday’s operation.

From a mountainous cave complex in northern Somalia, Bilal al-Sudani is
assessed to have supported ISIS’s expansion and activities across Africa
and beyond the continent, in particular by providing funding to sustain
the operational capabilities of ISIS elements around the world. That
includes the ISIS Khorasan branch in Afghanistan, one of ISIS’s most
lethal branches.

Sudani has a long history as a terrorist in Somalia. Before he joined
ISIS, he was designated by the U.S. Treasury Department in 2012 for his
role in Shabaab: helping foreign fighters to travel to an al Shabaab
training camp and facilitating financing for foreign violent extremists
in Somalia.

Sudani had a key operational and financial role with specialized skills,
which made him an important target for U.S. counterterrorism action.

This history and threat profile speak to the diffuse and network nature
of the terrorism threat we face today from ISIS and other foreign
terrorist organizations like al Qaeda. Our military, intelligence, and
policy communities supported the development and deliberation for this
operation in a coordinated and consultative manner in the spirit of this
administration’s policies for evaluating, approving, and conducting U.S.
direct-action counterterrorism operations. That’s also key context for
understanding this.

Our intelligence community expects to glean valuable information from
this operation as well, demonstrating our continued emphasis on
maximizing intelligence collection. Using these insights and others, we
will continue to build on President Biden’s established track record of
counterterrorism success, while ensuring that these efforts are narrowly
scoped and conducted in a manner consistent with U.S. values and broader
national security interests.

The United States and our allies and partners are safer today, as a
result of this operation yesterday, and the President will continue to
take all necessary steps to protect the United States and its interests
around the world from terrorist threats where they exist.

I’ll hand it back to \[Moderator\].

MODERATOR: Great, thank you. So, with that, we’ll open it up to Q&A. We
ask that you please use the “hand raise” feature.

Q Hi. Just quickly, have you said when this is reportable — this
information?

MODERATOR: We have not yet. We’re unfortunately going to have to keep
the contents of the call embargoed until further notice, but we are
hoping to come back to you this afternoon.

Q Okay, thank you. Okay.

And then just two questions. For official number one, the fact that you
are the one who’s briefing on this, does that indicate that this
individual presented some sort of an imminent or direct threat the U.S.
homeland?

And then, for official number two, I’m wondering if you could tell a
little bit more about your — the U.S. hopes for intelligence collection
off of this operation. Can you say — you know — the U.S. was pretty open
after the bin Laden raid about some, like, things that they were able to
pick up — videos and things. Can you say, in a general sense, what some
of the — the intelligence was that was able to be exploited from the
scene? Thanks.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: Thanks, Courtney. Obviously, the
responsibilities of dealing with the terrorist threat to the homeland,
both from overseas and within the United States, are fundamental to my
role. That’s why the Homeland Security Advisor position was created in
the aftermath of 9/11.

And this individual was somebody who was involved in, as we have
briefed, funding a network of ISIS affiliates around the world and, in
particular, doing so in places where ISIS has been expanding its reach
throughout Africa and also the ISIS affiliate, ISIS Khorasan, in
Afghanistan.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: And, Courtney, on the second question,
it won’t surprise you that I’ll stay a bit vague. But I would just
emphasize that as this operation was conceived, developed, considered,
ultimately approved, there was interest both in eliminating a terrorist
of this significance from the battlefield and his associates — whether
by capture or, ultimately, in other ways if necessary — and benefiting
from the intelligence insights that our experts anticipated the
operation would produce.

Thus far, they remain eager to utilize what they believe the opportunity
will present. And I would just step back and say that that is part of a
continued emphasis on using operations like this, as well as other means
where appropriate, to ensure that we are gleaning the most we can about
networks, like ISIS’s global network, about how they facilitate attacks
worldwide, and, of course, about how we can prevent those.

MODERATOR: Thank you. Our next question will go to Anita Powell.

Q Thank you so much for doing this. I want to just go beyond this
targeted operation and ask how the U.S. is going to move forward with
the Somali government to make sure that malign groups don’t take
advantage of — I think what you described as “ungoverned spaces.” Maybe
you could tell us a little bit more about this community-led violence
prevention effort.

And then, can you also just sketch a little bit more about this
individual? You know, how big was his network? How much money were we
talking about? Was he Sudanese, as his name indicates? Just — just some
details like that, if you don’t mind.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: Thanks, Anita. Let me hit a couple of
points there. So, as we mentioned, the Somali government is, of course,
a key counterterrorism partner. We have notified them about this
operation, and we work closely with them, truly, day to day on
addressing the threat that al-Shabaab poses and addressing threats like
this that ISIS can pose from Somalia, as well.

That collaboration, that cooperation can take a number of forms, from
training to provision of intelligence to other steps. And, you know, we
do applaud the current Somali leadership as they make clear their
commitment to counterterrorism as a real priority for the sake of the
safety of their own citizens and the safety of the global public.

There are, of course, moments that we believe necessitate a kinetic
operation like the one that was successfully executed yesterday. And, at
the same time, this administration has been very clear, including by
earlier public remarks by the Homeland Security Advisor, on how we think
about addressing international terrorism threats — that often the best
approach can be to invest in violence prevention at earlier stages of
radicalization or recruitment of violence and in ways that don’t require
the use of the, sort of, kinetic means this operation required.

That’s the context for my earlier mention of community-led violence
prevention, which we try to do in appropriate ways at home and in which
we work hard, especially to the State Department, to train, support, and
inform our partners as they do in their own — in communities abroad.

I think I’ll leave details on the individual beyond those that were
already mentioned to a time down the road in the future. But I’m sure
the Defense Department, in due course, will have more to say on that.

MODERATOR: Thank you. Our next question will go to Vivian Salama.

Q Hello, everyone. Thank you for doing this call. A couple questions
really quick. Is there anything you could tell us about the number of
service members who were involved in this raid? And also — and forgive
me if this was mentioned in your introduction — are they part of — are
they — are they locally based in Somalia, or were they based somewhere
else and flown in especially for this operation?

And finally, I just wanted to follow up on Courtney’s question about
collection. I know that it’s a sensitive subject and you don’t really
want to get into the details of collection. But, \[senior administration
official\], you had talked about, you know, over-the-horizon operations
in Syria and elsewhere, and obviously, this brings Afghanistan to mind.

And so, I’m wondering if you could talk a little bit about, you know,
what you’ve learned from these over-horizon operations where maybe
collections are a little bit better, like in places like Somalia and
Syria versus Afghanistan, and whether or not they may somehow help you
to navigate the restrictions in conducting over-the-horizon operations
in Afghanistan, given the fact that collections are likely still very
limited, if that makes any sense. Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: Thanks so much for the questions. So, I
will stay away from numbers or details on those involved in the
operation for the sake of operational security, although the military
may choose to have more to say on that in due course. But I’d be remiss
if I just didn’t emphasize what exceptional preparation they brought to
the operation and what skill they were able to execute it with.

And then, on the intelligence collection question, I do think that the
theory of the case that you’ve seen for, I guess, just over two years
now as an administration is that: Whether it’s with no U.S. forces on
the ground, as we have in a place like Afghanistan, or whether it’s with
a very limited number or (inaudible) number of troops on the ground, as
we have in a place like Somalia, we can use the exquisite capacity
available across the U.S. government to get the sort of insight we need
into threats that rise to the level of concern that we feel we need to
act on.

Now, what we do to act on them is, of course, the next step. And where
we can act through partners, that is generally our preference. But where
there is an opportunity as well as concern, both at the magnitude of
what led to yesterday’s operation, the intelligence is there to act on
it and to know what our forces are going to encounter in an operation
like this. So it’s the sort of insight that we had in Afghanistan that
led to the extraordinarily precise operation to remove from the
battlefield Ayman al-Zawahiri.

It’s a sort of insight that we were able to have in this extremely
remote area of Somalia to allow our forces to pull off what they were
able to pull off yesterday.

MODERATOR: Thank you. Our next question will go to Andrea Mitchell.

Q Hi. I just want to follow up on what you had initially said about
hoping to capture for collection. Can you tell — give us any description
or the circumstances of what led to his death and whether there was
resistance and — anything about the operation itself?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: Andrea, it’s \[senior administration
official\]. I just want to start out by saying I think it’s an important
principle for us — and you’ll have heard it as we’ve talked about the
way we approach the use of lethal force — our preference is to pursue
capture. That’s — that is in our guidance internally.

What we do is look at capture operations as the — based on our values
and preferred course.

In this case, it wasn’t feasible. And the details of that are not
available at this time. But it’s important to note that that’s the kind
of decision the President makes when he’s presented with options,
because he believes that’s consistent with our values.

MODERATOR: Thank you, everyone. That was our final question.

As a reminder, the contents of this call will be embargoed until further
notice, but we do hope to come back to you shortly. And have a good
afternoon, everyone.

3:31 P.M. EST
