---
date: '2023-01-23'
published_time: 2023-01-23 20:39:57-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2023/01/23/on-the-record-press-call-by-white-house-spokesperson-ian-sams-2/
tags: press-briefings
title: "On-the-Record Press Call by White\_House Spokesperson Ian\_Sams"
---
 
Via Teleconference

(January 17, 2023)

12:38 P.M. EST  
  
MS. YANG:  Hi, everyone.  Again, thank you all so much for joining
today’s call.  As a reminder, this call with White House Spokesperson
Ian Sams is on the record and embargoed until completion of the call. 
By participating in this call, you are agreeing to these ground rules.  
  
Ian will give some brief opening remarks and then we’ll move into Q&A. 
As always, please indicate whether or not you have a question with the
“Raise Hand” function.  
  
With that, I will turn it over to Ian.  
  
MR. SAMS:  Hey, guys.  And thanks for getting on a call.  I hope
everybody had an okay long weekend and got a little downtime.  
  
I’m just going to make a few points up top, and then we’ll be happy to
take your questions.  
  
So, first, as you heard the President say last week, he takes classified
information seriously.  
  
That’s why, as soon as the initial documents were discovered, he
directed his team to ensure that any materials were properly returned to
the government.  
  
At his direction, his personal lawyers and the White House have fully
cooperated both with the National Archives and with the Justice
Department.  And throughout this process, his personal legal team has
coordinated its activities with DOJ.  
  
Now that a Special Counsel has been appointed to review the matter,
they’ll continue to cooperate in this next phase.  
  
It’s important to kind of take a step back and understand why the
President and his team have committed to cooperate fully with the
investigation.  
  
Going all the way back to the campaign, President Biden talked about the
importance of restoring the strength and independence of the Justice
Department.  
  
He has made clear that the Justice Department must make its decisions in
cases like this independently and free from undue interference.  
  
The President takes this seriously, and he believes in handling it the
right way.  And that’s because he believes deeply in the rule of law.  
  
We’re also providing the public with information about this matter as
it’s appropriate.  But we’re, of course, limited in what we’re going to
be able to say given the ongoing DOJ review.  
  
Second, at the same time that the President and his team have been fully
cooperating, acting responsibly, and ensuring that this is handled
properly, you’ve seen something far different emerging among elected
Republicans.  
  
What are they doing?  They’ve decided that it’s time for more political
stunts and theater.  They’re faking outrage, even though they defended
the former President’s actions.  
  
Just look at the Chairman of the House Oversight Committee.  Yesterday,
he actually told Fox News that he believed President Biden, quote,
“probably had no knowledge of it.”  
  
And then, on Sunday, he told CNN, quote, “At the end of the day, my
biggest concern isn’t the classified documents, to be honest with
you.”  
  
Think about that for a second.  He’s on TV openly admitting that he
doesn’t care about the underlying issue and doesn’t even think that
President Biden has knowledge about it.  
  
And in case there is any doubt that these House Republicans and their
outrage is all pure theater, just look at how he responded to the former
President’s handling of classified information.  
  
He said last year — and this is a direct quote — it, quote, “didn’t
amount to a hill of beans,” and that, quote, it “will not be a priority”
in terms of an investigation.  
  
So it’s important to really understand the distinction here:  
  
President Biden is committed to doing the responsible thing and handling
this appropriately.   
  
His team acted promptly to disclose information to the proper
authorities and is cooperating fully.   
  
And while we’re limited in what we can say during an ongoing DOJ
inquiry, we are providing as much information publicly as is
appropriate, given that investigation.  
  
When it comes to Congress, we intend to review and respond to oversight
inquiries in good faith, but we also expect members of Congress to show
the same good faith.  
  
House Republicans lose credibility when they engage in fake outrage
about an issue that they’re clearly pursuing only for partisan gain.  
  
Finally — and I’ll make this point and then we’ll take your questions —
I know you guys have a lot of questions about the details of this
matter.  
  
The President’s personal attorneys put out a long statement on
Saturday.  And as they said in it, quote, they “have attempted to
balance the importance of public transparency where appropriate with the
established norms and limitations necessary to protect the
investigation’s integrity.”   They also said, quote, “These
considerations require avoiding the public release of detail relevant to
the investigation while it is ongoing.”  
  
So, with the appointment of a Special Counsel, we will continue to be
limited in what we can share publicly.  We’re going to have to refer you
to DOJ for questions about the Special Counsel’s work, but many of the
answers from here may need to wait until the conclusion of the Special
Counsel’s review.  
  
But in the meantime, we do intend to cooperate with that review so that
it can proceed swiftly and thoroughly, as both the Attorney General and
Special Counsel have said.  
  
And the President and his team, we’re going to focus on delivering for
the American people — taking on the big, important issues facing
American families.  We invite Republicans in Congress to join us in
those efforts on behalf of the American people.  That’s what the public
expects of us.  
  
So, with that important caveat, I am happy to take your questions, and
we’ll do our best to work through them.  
  
Thanks.  
  
MS. YANG:  Thanks so much, Ian.  Again, for those joining late, I just
want to reiterate that, while this call is on the record, it is
embargoed until completion of this call.  And, again, as many of you
already have done, please indicate if you have a question by using the
“Raise Hand” function.  And we’ll take a couple right now.  
  
We’ll start with Zeke Miller, AP.  
  
Q    Thanks again for doing this.  Hopefully, we can do this
regularly.  
  
I appreciate that you mentioned that the White House is going to release
information only when it’s appropriate, so I was hoping you could
provide some details on the timing and what you decided to disclose and
when.

For instance, the statement that came out Saturday about the five
additional documents found on Thursday: Why did the White House wait 48
hours to put that out?  And more pressingly, why did the White House
wait months to disclose the initial discovery on November 2nd? 

And then the subsequent discovery on December 20th, even when you had
the opportunity to disclose it last Monday, you waited until Thursday to
do so.  If it was appropriate to release it when you released it, why
not release it earlier when it was in the — you know, clearly in the
public interest?

MR. SAMS:  Hey, Zeke.  Thanks for that question.  Really appreciate it. 
So, I think it’s important to sort of take a step back here when it
comes to this.  And I mentioned this a little bit in my opening
comments.  You know, the President has spoken to this publicly about how
he takes this stuff seriously and that he was briefed about the
discovery and was surprised to learn about them. 

And the first thing he did was instruct his attorneys to totally
cooperate with the ongoing review and to ensure that any records are
sent back to the government.  So, as soon as the team found those
documents, they were handed back over to the proper — the appropriate
authorities.  This has all been a part of cooperating with DOJ and being
careful to respect — as the President’s personal attorneys released in
their long statement on Saturday — consistent with safeguarding the
integrity of the investigation. 

And so, I understand that there’s a tension between protecting and
safeguarding the integrity of an ongoing investigation with providing
information publicly appropriate with that. 

You know, on Saturday, the President’s personal attorneys, the White
House Counsel’s Office — we released additional statements.  We felt it
was important to address

information that we had put out previously in the week, but we also
wanted to make sure that you all had a fulsome explanation of the
process so far. 

The President’s personal attorneys did that.  They put out a long
statement explaining the processes and protocols that they followed in
this investigation so far; committed to further cooperation with the
Department of Justice, as we’re going to continue doing; and to make
sure that, understanding that you guys all have questions about that,
that they’re — that we’re going to have — that we’re going to try to
address those appropriately, in respect of the DOJ investigation.

There was one thing that was in the statement that was released by the
President’s personal attorney on Saturday that I think is worth
reiterating in response to this question.  In talking about the way
that, sort of, considerations respecting the ongoing integrity of an
investigation, you know, something that they said in there — and I have
— I’ll pull it up right here in front of me — is they said, “Regular
ongoing public disclosures also pose the risk that, as further
information develops, answers provided on \[a\] periodic basis may be
incomplete.”

So, in any investigation, as an investigation is ongoing — especially an
investigation where people are cooperative and are working in hand —
hand in hand with the department to review these matters — information
is going to develop.  That’s a natural part of any investigation. 

And so, as this investigation has been ongoing, as the President’s
personal attorney stated and as the — as we stated earlier on this
matter: You know, as searches were underway looking for additional
documents to be properly handed back to the government, you know, we
wanted to be respectful to try to provide as complete information as we
could, trying to balance with the need to provide that information to
you all, consistent with the investigation. 

And so, you know, these are the considerations that we’ve had to take
into account while we’ve been trying to answer questions thoroughly and
completely.  But the very nature of being cooperative with an ongoing
investigation means that we need to let that investigation play out and
to try to be respectful of facts as they come to light through that
investigation. 

And so, I appreciate the question.  And hopefully, that helps a little
bit.

Let’s — let me look at the questions here.  Let’s go to Amie Parnes.

Q    Hey there, can you hear me?

MR. SAMS:  Yep.  Hey.

Q    Okay.  Hey, thanks for doing this call.  I just wanted to know — I
know you called it “political theater,” but how are you — there are a
lot of Democrats who are saying that you guys can better effectively
explain this message.  How do you effectively make that message known to
the American people who aren’t aware of the hypocrisy?  How can you —
what is the messaging strategy on this like for you, guys?

MR. SAMS:  Yeah, thanks for that question.  Look, I mean, I think I laid
this out a second ago.  You know, we’re — we’re endeavoring to be as
transparent and informative to you all in the media, to the public as we
can, consistent with respecting the integrity of an ongoing Justice
Department investigation — a Justice Department investigation that we
are being fully cooperative with. 

Look, that’s been a — that’s been a directive of the President, and he
cares very deeply about being cooperative in this process and to
ensuring that the Justice Department can make these sorts of decisions
independently and consistent with his promises going all the way back to
the campaign of restoring the strength of the Justice Department. 

And so, I think what we can do is try to explain to you all these deep —
these nuances and these constraints that we may have.  We understand
that there’s a tension between the need to be cooperative with an
ongoing DOJ investigation and rightful demands for additional public
information.  And so, we’re trying to strike that balance and being as
clear as we can. 

But I think that one of the key takeaways here — and I think something
that you see, you know, neutral legal observers stating; you’ve seen
members of Congress talking about this — you know, we are acting — as
soon as this was made a — the President’s lawyers discovered additional
material, they promptly reported them to the proper authorities, and
they’ve been completely cooperative. 

I think that that’s a really critical distinction and something that’s
very important to understand in this process that, you know, while we
may be constrained from being able to provide a ton of facts as this
investigation is ongoing, we’re being very forthright that we’re being
cooperative with the Justice Department. 

And that’s such a stark contrast.  I mean, you listen to these House
Republicans who, I think you mentioned — you know, they’re faking
outrage about disclosure and transparency at the same time, for example,
that they will not ask their Speaker to release the secret deals that he
made in order to get support from the far-right, extreme MAGA members of
his caucus for Speaker.

You know, we are learning drip by drip, bit by bit the kinds of things
he gave away in those negotiations and the serious impact they have on
the American public.

And so, we — you know, these are the same Republicans who didn’t make a
peep when it — when it came to the former President handling of
material.  And if they did make a peep, they often defended it. 

You know, in their moments of honesty, I think they’ve already admitted
that they don’t care about the underlying issue here.  I mentioned a
comment that the Chairman of the House Oversight Committee made this
weekend.  You know, they’re interested in making this be political
theater and political stunts instead of focusing on actually working
with the President on issues that matter.

And so, you know, we’re not going to hesitate from calling that out and
ensuring that that distinction is made and ensuring that, you know, if
something is suggested in bad faith that it doesn’t go un-responded to. 

And so I think that that’s just an important distinction here.  And
we’re going to continue doing our best to explain to you all, to explain
to the public how we’re cooperating with the Justice Department and the
information that we can provide.

Let’s go to Ali Vitali, NBC.

Q    Hey, thanks for doing the call.  From the Hill side, I know there
have already been some requests — for example, Chairman Comer asking for
documents and communications from the Chief of Staff regarding the
searches.  What’s your stance and plan on engaging with these
investigations, or is it your posture that you can’t because of the
DOJ?  Like, just give me a sense of how you plan on interacting with the
Hill on this.

MR. SAMS:  Sure.  Thanks for that question.  So, yeah, as you mentioned,
you know, we’ve received a few letters from the House Oversight Chairman
on this issue.  We are reviewing those letters.  We’ll make a
determination about a response in due course.

But, of course, we’re going to call it out when we see rampant hypocrisy
that shows a total lack of credibility when it comes to these requests. 

As I mentioned before, you know, our commitment is to work in good faith
with Congress.  When they make a request, we’re going to operate in good
faith.  We just expect that the members of Congress have the same good
faith.  And when — you know, when we see hypocrisy, when we see comments
that are so uncredible, you know, we’re going to address that. 

And I think that with the last few days, you’ve seen an eagerness among
House Republicans to make their lack of credibility known.  They’re
focusing on things that they did not focus on in previous
circumstances.  They’re making contradictory claims on television about
the underlying purposes of their inquiries. 

And so, you know, we’re going to review the letters that they’ve sent,
and we’ll make a decision about how to respond.

Let’s go to Weijia at CBS.

Q    Thanks, Ian.  Can you hear me?

MR. SAMS:  Yep.  How you doing?

Q    Good.  How are you?

MR. SAMS:  Good.

Q    Thanks so much for doing this call.  Over the weekend, you released
a statement disclosing, you know, the fact that Mr. Sauber found
additional pages with classified markings among the material at the
President’s home.

So, I’m wondering why, back in November and on December 20th, that
information about the discovery of documents was not disclosed.  I
understand that you have already referenced Mr. Bauer’s, you know,
statement.  I just — I’m having a hard time seeing how the — disclosing
the very discovery of the documents would have impacted any
investigation, especially because that’s precisely what you did over the
weekend.

And then, if I could, just a second question.  What prompted the
President’s personal attorneys to go back to his Wilmington home on
January 11th, after the documents were found in the garage on December
20th?  Thanks a lot.

MR. SAMS:  Sure.  Thanks for that.  So, on the second question, just
while it’s on top of mind, you know, I would point — I would refer you
to the personal attorneys to address anything that they may have there. 
I think you all have contact information for them.  And if not, just
shoot me a note and we can ensure we’re referring you appropriately to
them on the process.

And I think we’ve addressed some of this in the statements over the last
week in terms of how that process was working — whether it was ongoing,
you know, how those were being conducted cooperatively with the DOJ, et
cetera.  And so, I would point you to those and them on this specific
sort of factual details here.

And then, on your former question, look, I think, as I said before, you
know, we understand that there is a tension between, you know,
protecting and safeguarding what is an ongoing investigation and
providing an adequate level of public information to you all, to the
public.  We understand that that’s that’s a tension and that those
things can often be in tension. 

You know, I think the important thing to understand is that, you know,
these things, when they were discovered, were immediately disclosed to
the proper authorities — first to the National Archives and then, as the
Attorney General laid out last week — the Attorney General statement
appointing the Special Counsel — the Archives referred the matter to the
Justice Department for further review.  And at that point, the Justice
Department was engaged directly with the President’s team.  And they’ve
been in cooperation ever since. 

And so I think it’s just important to understand that, like, as — as
these — this matter was ongoing, we wanted to be respectful of that as
an open inquiry.  And I think that it’s – you can’t do it — you know,
you need to connect with that information with what was stated, I think
on Saturday, which is, you know, there’s a desire to be complete and
thorough in the provenance of information.  You know, that is what the
Special Counsel ostensibly is going to be focused on.  Obviously, they
and the DOJ can speak to that, but, you know, the various types of
things — you know, the types of information, the fact pattern — these
are things that, ultimately, the Special Counsel will be investigating
and will come to conclusions on and be able to speak definitively about
a final fact set. 

And so I think, you know, we want to be respectful of that process,
noting what I said earlier, that, sort of, you know, regular ongoing
disclosures do raise some risks that information, as it develops, you
know, you could look back and see that certain information was
incomplete.  And, you know, we want to make sure that, you know, you all
and the public are served with complete information to the best of our
ability as part of this ongoing inquiry. 

And so, throughout this process, that’s sort of guided the thinking and
the decision making, and we want to continue that going forward, you
know, in close cooperation with the Justice Department. 

Let’s go to Peter Alexander at NBC.

Q    Hi there, Ian.  Thanks for holding this call.  A couple of quick
questions.  Can you — well, first of all, will there be any additional
searches here or any more documents found?  Or are the documents at this
point that have been discovered, is that the end of it? 

And then can you help us better understand: Did the White House initiate
the additional searches after November 2nd, or the Justice Department? 
Did the Justice Department asked the White House to do those checks? 

And then the final, just to punctuate it, is: Has anyone in the
administration, outside of the DOJ, to the best of the White House’s
knowledge, been briefed on the contents of the documents?  Thanks.

MR. SAMS:  Thank you.  I appreciate that.  I was channeling the
President and jotting down your multipart question.

So, on some of these questions, I’m going to need to refer you to the
Justice Department and to the personal attorney.  You know, these are
the kinds of specific questions about details of the ongoing
investigation that we want to be very careful to respect the integrity
of that process. 

So, you know, in terms of your first question, you know, we’re in close
coordination and cooperation with the Justice Department and the Special
Counsel — the President’s personal attorneys are, I should say — about
next steps.  And so I would refer you there. 

And additionally, on the question of the search procedures and
protocols, you know, the President’s personal attorney put out a long
statement explaining the facts and information about that on Saturday. 
So I would point you to that for the latest on the process and protocols
for determining how to do this. 

And then, on the third question about others in the administration, I’d
refer you to DOJ on that.  You know, they’re managing the investigation,
and those decisions would be made by them as part of the independent
investigation. 

Let’s go to Sabrina Siddiqui.

Q    Hey.  Thank you so much for doing this call.  You keep going back
to this point of trying to balance transparency with the integrity of
the investigation.  Are there specific things that the Special Counsel
or the Justice Department has told the White House not to speak publicly
about?  Can you just kind of explain more clearly what some of the
constraints are that you’re operating under?  And what is it then that
you are able to disclose publicly as you try to be more transparent?

And then also, would the President sit for an interview with the Special
Counsel if he is asked to?  Thank you.

MR. SAMS:  Thanks, Sabrina.  Appreciate that.  So on the latter
question, you know, that’s — you know, we’re not going to get ahead of
that process with the Special Counsel and speculate on what they may or
may not want or ask for.  And so I’m just not going to comment on that
at this time and would refer you over to DOJ on their process and their
thinking in terms of how to conduct their own investigation. 

Can you actually repeat your first question again?  I apologize.  I did
not write the notes down, which now I am learning I should do. 

Q    Yeah.  I mean, you just keep going back to this point of trying to
balance the integrity of the investigation with transparency.  So can
you just be more clear on what the constraints are that the White House
is facing when it comes to transparency?  Are there specific things that
the Special Counsel or the Justice Department has told you not to talk
about?  And then, therefore, what is it that you can actually share as
this investigation unfolds?

MR. SAMS:  Sure.  Thanks so much.  So I’m not going to characterize, you
know, conversations between DOJ and the President’s attorneys right
now.  I don’t think that’s appropriate. 

But I will — you know, I will say, again, you know, when you’re
considering the release of public information that is part of an ongoing
review by the Justice Department, you know, there’s a lot of factors to
take into the — into the equation.  And, you know, I mentioned this
before: the risk that exists by, you know, regularly disclosing partial
information as an investigation is ongoing — you know, an investigation
— especially one where the subject of the investigation is being fully
cooperative. 

You know, the investigation may uncover additional information.  It may,
you know, reveal additional facts.  It may determine specific, you know,
fact patterns, the kinds of things that I know you guys are all really
interested in asking about, about the underlying issue here.  
  
But when you are releasing, you know, impartial or periodic information,
you know, you run the risk that that’s not complete, and you run the
risk that the public isn’t served by incomplete information at times.  
  
And so, you know, we understand that there’s a tension here, and we’ve
been trying to, you know, balance that tension while being totally
cooperative with the Justice Department.  And, you know, I think we’re
going to continue to try to strike that balance going forward as the
Special Counsel, you know, runs the process of investigation and we
openly cooperate with him in that matter.

Let’s go MJ.  
  
Q    Hey, can you hear me?  
  
MR. SAMS:  I gotcha.  
  
Q    Hey, thanks.  One first question for you.  And I have a second
one.  
  
What led to President Biden’s personal lawyer or lawyers coming across
classified documents at the Penn Biden Center on November 2nd?  I guess
we’re just trying to understand what they were doing there in the first
place.  Were they specifically searching for documents?  Or were they
just trying to vacate the office and just happened to come across those
documents?   
  
And if it’s the latter, we’d love to know why lawyers were involved in
packing up boxes.  I’m also just hoping that you can answer this
question, given that it has to do with events that happened before a DOJ
review was triggered.  
  
And then I have a second question.  
  
MR. SAMS:  Go ahead with your second one.  I’m writing it down.  
  
Q    Yeah, can you shed some light on how exactly — who would search
these locations, how those people were selected?  Since classified
material was discovered on November 2nd, why were Biden lawyers who do
not have security clearances involved in subsequent searches?  
  
MR. SAMS:  Thanks for those.  I appreciate it.

So, on the first question, you know, that was addressed in the initial
statement.  The — the President’s personal lawyers were — were basically
cleaning out the office to prepare to vacate it when they came across
this.  
  
I mean, I think it’s important to note, you know, this is the President
of the United States, and these are personal materials.  And he — you
know, his trusted aides were — were doing the work of cleaning out the
office.  And so I think that that’s self-explanatory, and I’ll point you
back to the statement that was released explaining why these were come
across in the first place.  
  
And on the second question, you know, in terms of who and how the
searches were conducted, you know, I’d point you, again, to the
statement that Bob Bauer released on Saturday.  These are, you know, all
part of an ongoing process of cooperating and coordinating with the
Justice Department.  So I would refer you to that statement and to the
Department in terms of how those searches and reviews were conducted.

Jeff Mason.  
  
Q    Thanks, Ian.  Can you clarify for us how many documents we’re
talking about?  There have been reports about fewer than a dozen at the
beginning.  We’ve had numbers on the latest statements.  Just so that
we’re all using the same figure, can you say?  Is it — is it roughly 20?

And my second question, which I presume you won’t be able to answer but
I’m going to ask anyway, is: Can you give us any sense at all of what is
in the materials?  Because it’s certainly possible that it’s — it’s
schedules or something that may have been classified six years ago that
doesn’t really matter now.  On the other hand, it could also be the
things that Republicans are beginning to raise questions about, if it’s
related to Hunter.  Are you able to say anything about that at this
time?

MR. SAMS:  Thanks, Jeff.  I appreciate that.  And so I actually think
this question gets at the heart of what we’ve been talking about here. 
You know, as soon as these records were identified, they were
immediately handed over to the proper authorities.  And so, in terms of
contents, in terms of numbers, in terms of the specifics related to the
materials itself, you know, we just can’t address that because these
have been handed over to the proper authorities.  And these will be part
of the ongoing investigation by the Justice Department.  
  
And so when it comes to, sort of, those level of facts, you know, we may
not know exact numbers, exact contents, et cetera, because they’ve
immediately been handed over to the Justice Department, which is part of
the process that the President instructed his lawyers to do at the very
beginning — of total cooperation, doing this by the book, doing this the
right way, and being totally cooperative with DOJ.  
  
You know, the President’s personal lawyer, Bob Bauer, put out a
statement on Saturday that does go through, sort of, their protocols and
processes here of how they’ve done it.  So I would obviously encourage
you to, you know, take a look at that and ensure you’re, you know,
reading it thoroughly and carefully in terms of these sorts of specific
questions about the process.  
  
But I think it’s important to note that some of these questions, you
know, they are underlying facts that we would refer you to the Justice
Department to answer.  But some of the reason we also can’t is because,
you know, we did this in accordance with the proper protocols of handing
the materials over to the proper authorities immediately.  
  
And so, I understand the question.  I know that this is one you’ve been
asking.  But I just hope that explains, you know, why I can’t give you,
you know, an exact answer. 

Let’s go to Brooke Singman at Fox.

Q    Hey, Ian.  Thank you so much.  Does the White House think it was
necessary for the Attorney General to appoint a Special Counsel for this
matter, given the President and his legal team’s cooperation with the
review?

MR. SAMS:  Thanks for that.  So, you know, we put out a statement after
the Attorney General named a Special Counsel.  Certainly, this is a
decision for the Attorney General to make independently.  And we were —
you know, we were made aware by his announcement that this was done. 
You know, and we are committed to fully cooperating with the Special
Counsel, you know, consistent with these principles that I’ve talked
about in this call.

You know, the President — you know, after the last administration, the
President ran on and took very seriously restoring the strength and
independence of the Justice Department.  And part of restoring the
strength and independence of the Justice Department is ensuring that the
Attorney General has the independence to make these sorts of decisions. 

And so, again, the Attorney General, as he announced last week, made
these — made this decision.  And the President’s team, the President,
and the President’s personal lawyers are going to be fully cooperative
throughout this process with the department and with the Special
Counsel. 

I have time for a couple more.  Let’s do Franco.

Franco, are you there?

Q    How about now?  Sorry about that. 

MR. SAMS:  Yeah, I got you now. 

Q    Wonderful.  Thanks so much for doing this.  I wanted to ask,
related to an earlier question about the Wednesday search: Why wasn’t a
lawyer with security clearance part of that search?  Is that, you know,
a matter of a billing issue, you know, not being on White House duty? 

A second question I wanted to ask was: Between Thursday and Saturday,
what changed between finding the one document — or releasing information
about the one document discovered on Wednesday, and, Saturday, when
discussing the five additional documents?  I certainly can understand
not wanting to give incomplete information and things develop.  But it’s
such a short period of time.  There was no additional DOJ announcement. 
I was just curious, is there something you can point to specifically
about that release of information and why that wasn’t originally
disclosed earlier? 

And finally, just related to Peter’s earlier question: Considering that
the investigation is ongoing, I mean, should we not be surprised if more
— if more classified documents are revealed?

MR. SAMS:  Thanks.  Sorry, I was jotting down your note — your
questions.  So in terms of the process — to your first question — in
terms of the process of the search, you know, again, I’d point you to
the long explanation released both by the personal lawyer and by the
White House Counsel’s Office about the nature of those and the processes
and protocols that they were following. 

On your second question, in terms of the release, you know, I think you
saw on Saturday with the President’s personal attorney statement — which
was very thorough, very long — you know, the statement from the White
House Counsel’s Office explaining, clarifying sort of the statement that
had been put out on Thursday morning.  You know, we wanted to ensure
that you all had a comprehensive set of information, and we thought it
was very important to do that on Saturday, when those were released. 
Obviously, the President’s personal attorney making the decision to do
their information, us making sure we were giving a thorough amount of
information to you all to explain and clarify the earlier statement. 

And then, on your last question, in terms of the future of this, you
know, I would say these are going to be decisions that are up to the
Special Counsel for how to conduct their own investigation.  We are
fully cooperating with that process.  The President is fully cooperating
with that process. 

You know, as we’ve said over and over again, you know, the direction was
to be fully cooperative with this process, and we’re going to do that. 
As part of that, you know, I don’t want to get ahead of, you know,
investigative decision making that’s being done by the department. 
That’s very — that’s a — that’s independent decisions that they can make
in consultation, you know, with the President’s legal team as
appropriate.  And so I don’t want to get ahead of that and would point
you to that. 

I know that there’s another call at 1:15 on another issue, so I think
that we’re going to wrap this up.  Thank you, guys, all for taking the
time to do this. 

You know, again, happy to take your questions.  You guys know where to
find me.  If you need additional stuff, feel free to give me a call. 
And really appreciate you joining us today.

1:13 P.M. EST
