---
date: '2023-01-09'
modified_time: 2023-01-09 14:17:13-05:00
published_time: 2023-01-09 14:17:12-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2023/01/09/press-gaggle-by-national-security-advisor-jake-sullivan/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Gaggle by National Security Advisor Jake\_Sullivan"
---
 
InterContinental Presidente  
Mexico City, Mexico

10:10 A.M. CST

MR. SULLIVAN: Thank you, guys, all for being here today. It’s Monday,
January 9th. We are in the bilateral portion of the North American
Leaders’ Summit program today with our bilateral meeting with President
López Obrador. When I say “our” bilateral meeting, I actually mean
President Biden’s bilateral meeting.

We had the opportunity to do a pretty extensive background briefing that
went through the critical substance and the agenda that we’re trying to
pursue, both with respect to our bilateral engagements with Canada and
Mexico and in the trilateral format of the leaders’ summit.

So I’m not going to go into great detail. I’ll just say that, today,
with President López Obrador, President Biden is looking to dive deep on
a set of issues that are priorities for his administration, including
continued close coordination on migration questions. And we have been
obviously in extremely close touch with Mexico on the announcement
President Biden and the administration made last week with respect to
expansion of the parole program.

We also will spend a considerable amount of time today, both in the
bilateral and inside meetings that members of our Cabinet will be
holding, on how we can enhance and elevate our cooperation on fentanyl.

And President López Obrador and President Biden will have the
opportunity to discuss questions related to supply chains, to clean
energy cooperation, and to a larger economic vision of North America
that involves high labor standards, high environmental standards, and as
much positively reinforcing economic activity as possible that allows
the United States to be the manufacturing powerhouse that President
Biden has talked about but also is a win-win for Mexico and Canada, and
reduces our dependencies on other countries and other parts of the world
who don’t necessarily share the same values that we share with our
partners here in North America.

There will be a lot of other issues on the agenda: broader law
enforcement cooperation, questions related to how we move forward a
common agenda to combat the climate crisis, health, people-to-people
ties, and so much else.

But these areas in particular — migration, fentanyl, and integrated
supply chains and the increased strength of North America’s
manufacturing and innovation powerhouse in critical sectors, including
in the clean energy sector — these are the areas, I think, where you
will see the greatest amount of focus.  
The final point I would make: This trip is a good opportunity for
President Biden to deepen his personal engagement with President López
Obrador and Prime Minister Trudeau. Yesterday, he had the opportunity to
ride with President López Obrador from the airport back into town, which
gave them the chance to just have a one-on-one chat on kind of how
they’re seeing the world right now, what’s on their minds. I think they
both got a lot out of it.

And then, this evening, they will have the chance to all meet together
with their spouses for a personal dinner. So that’s an important
dimension to this as well.

And let me leave it at that, and I’m happy to take your questions.

Q Jake, can you talk a little bit about something that President López
Obrador said this morning about being willing to accept potentially even
more than 30,000 migrants from the U.S.? Is that something that you guys
are talking about? Is that something that you hope to have a deliverable
by the end of this summit?

MR. SULLIVAN: This has been an iterative process. Obviously, we began
with a focus on how we could stand up a parole program for Venezuelans a
few months ago, in 2022. We’ve now expanded that to Cubans, Nicaraguans,
and Haitians. We’ve established numerical targets. We are in the early
days of the implementation of that. And we will see how that goes and
then make determinations about where to take the next step.

So I don’t think we have a fixed number in mind. And by the end of this
summit, we’re not going to have a new agreement as a deliverable here.
What we need is to see how the program announced last week works in
practice; what, if any, adjustments need to be made to that program; and
then we can talk about taking the next step.

Q When you talk about next steps, does that include additional countries
or adjusting the members for those four countries? Or either/or?

MR. SULLIVAN: At no point have we placed a conceptual limitation on
which countries could be in or out, or a numerical limitation on how to
think about the scope of this program. What we’ve done is taken a hard
look at what’s possible, given the resources, the processing, and the
realities of what we’re facing, both in terms of migration flows and
encounters at the border, and then taken steps consistent with those
factors at a given point in time.

So, again, we took our first step in October. We’ve taken our second
step in January. There is no reason to believe there won’t be a third
step at some point; we’re open to that.

But, again, we really, really need to see how this particular phase of
our cooperation with Mexico and this program for these four countries
works in practice. And then we can make determinations about next steps.

Q And briefly, can you say whether the presidents discussed the dispute
over Mexican energy policy, which has been a thorn in trade ties for
some time, in either the limo ride — or does he plan to discuss it over
the next couple of days? What is President Biden’s message to President
López Obrador on that issue?

MR. SULLIVAN: I’m not going to read out the conversation in the limo
because I think that was a personal conversation between the two of
them. I’ll let each of them speak to it, to the extent they feel
comfortable doing so.

What I will say is that the question of energy policy and the
consultations over energy will be on the agenda, will come up between
the two leaders on this trip. I want to leave it at that because those
are sensitive conversations. They’re best done behind closed doors. But
the President certainly comes with that as a key part of his economic
agenda here.

Q Can I follow up? Can I follow on the — just the energy part? In
talking to U.S. energy companies, they’re frustrated at the pace of
these negotiations, consultations. The deadline — it expires, it’s been
extended.

They are urging this White House to take the next step of calling a
dispute panel, saying that there’s evidence that that is necessary. Is
that something the U.S. is considering? And kind of what — what would
need — what are the preconditions you would need to see in order to kind
of call a dispute panel?  
MR. SULLIVAN: So, I’m not going to negotiate in public or telegraph next
steps in public. I’ll just say that we remain in close touch with all of
those energy stakeholders. We remain in close touch with both Democrats
and Republicans on the Hill. In fact, I’ve spoken with members just this
morning on this issue, to keep them up to date on what we’re doing.

And as I said before, this will be a topic between the leaders here in
Mexico, but I don’t want to get ahead of their opportunity to discuss
this. I would just say that we think consultations have helped clarify
both the nature of U.S. concerns, have identified some potential
pathways forward, but we’re not there yet. And we’ll make determinations
about next steps based how things unfold here in the coming days and
weeks.

Q Can I ask about Brazil? Does the President have any plans to speak to
President Lula da Silva after yesterday’s events?

MR. SULLIVAN: We don’t have a scheduled call, but I do expect the
President will speak with President Lula at some point in the coming
period. “Period” undefined because, as of now, there’s nothing
scheduled.

You saw the President speak out very plainly and clearly yesterday. And
so, there is absolutely no doubt about where President Biden or the
United States stands on this assault on democracy, democratic
institutions, and the peaceful transfer of power.

And so, we will continue to make sure that the United States speaks
clearly with one voice on this issue, and then sort out, you know, when
the right time is for the two leaders to talk.  
Q Can you talk broadly about the implications of what happened in Brazil
and what the administration’s next steps might be?

MR. SULLIVAN: Well, first, we have expressed confidence because we
believe it. The demo- — the democratic institutions of Brazil will hold,
the will of the people of Brazil will be respected, the freely-elected
leader of Brazil will govern Brazil and will not be deterred or knocked
off course by the actions of these people who have assaulted the — the
instruments of governance in Brasília, including the Congress, the
Presidential Palace, and the — and the Supreme Court.

So we think Brazilian democracy is resilient, strong, and will come
through this.

Q What about Bolsonaro? Do you know if he’s still in the U.S.?

Q And will you send him back?

MR. SULLIVAN: We’re not, as far as I know, in direct contact with
Bolsonaro. So I can’t speak definitively about his whereabouts. We have
not, as of now, received any official requests from the Brazilian
government related to Bolsonaro. Of course, if we did receive such
requests, we’d treat them the way we always do: We’d treat them
seriously.

Questions related to visas, as you all know, are the province of State
Department. They’re governed by legal modalities. We are careful about
not speaking about individual visa cases in public and certainly not
from the White House. So I would have to defer to my colleagues at the
State Department on that issue.

But, again, I would just emphasize that we have not, as of yet, received
any requests — official requests from the Brazilian government related
to this issue.

If and when we do, we’ll deal with it. And if and when we have any
information to provide, we will do it. But I anticipate that that
information will end up getting provided by the State Department, not
coming from me at the National Security Council or coming from the White
House.

Q Would you act absent of request from Brazil? Is it fair for me to — to
deduce from what you were saying that you’d need them to reach out
first, essentially?

MR. SULLIVAN: I don’t want you to take that as the implication. I’m just
saying, A, they —

Q I understand.

MR. SULLIVAN: — you know — (laughs) — they haven’t made a request. B —

Q Separately —

MR. SULLIVAN: — on the question of visa status, I’m not going to speak
to the visa status of any given individual. That’s the province of the
State Department. I don’t want to link those two things that there is a
predicate to any kind of action.

The United States takes actions on visas all the time for all kinds of
reasons. But on this particular case, this particular individual, again,
I have to proceed with extreme caution in terms of how I talk about it
because of the legal issues and the precedent issues involved, and so
will allow discretion to be the better part of valor and refer this over
to the State Department.

Q Jake, on the topics for the summit — you know, migration, supply
chain, fentanyl — is — are there any things we can expect, any
announcements coming today out on those discussions? Or is this just,
you know, continued discussions on these issues?

MR. SULLIVAN: There will be a series of deliverables that will come out
as part of the results of the North American Leaders’ Summit sessions
tomorrow. So, I’ll talk to Karine and Adrienne about how to make sure
that we brief you up on those individual elements maybe at some point
later today.

They will not be formally announced today, though, because they are part
of the — the trilateral program tomorrow.

Q Can I just ask one more about Brazil? A number of the figures who were
involved in January 6th were online yesterday sort of fanning the
protests that were happening in Brazil. Does the U.S. see any formal or
informal link between those who have may have been behind January 6th
and what happened on the ground there, either directionally, monetarily,
or more just support generally?

MR. SULLIVAN: I don’t have any information in that regard. If we get —
gain such information, we’ll be sure to share it with you all. But as of
now, I’ve got nothing on that.

Q Okay.

Q And how did the President’s trip to the border yesterday inform how
he’s going to approach talks about migration, if anything? Did it — you
know, is he going to broach that subject a little differently than he
would have before the visit to the border?

MR. SULLIVAN: Well, the trip to the border had two major dimensions to
it, as you know — one to do with the issue of immigration, the other to
do with the issue of fentanyl. And he had the opportunity to see, very
practically, the ways in which a combination of highly trained personnel
and technology can help interdict the flow of fentanyl across the
border.

And he will certainly relay his experience from the border to President
López Obrador and talk with him about ways in which the U.S. and Mexico
can cooperate more effectively, can deploy technology more
comprehensively, can increase the level of cooperation between Mexican
law enforcement personnel and U.S. law enforcement personnel, not just
at the border but at every step along the fentanyl supply chain.

And then with respect to immigration, he had the opportunity both to see
firsthand the physical border itself, but also engage with NGOs and
faith leaders and others involved in supporting migrants who are seeking
asylum in the United States, require services as they go through their
process.

And I think that gave him a more granular view of something he very
deeply understood at a policy level, but there’s just no substitute for
being able to have the engagement with those service providers on the
frontlines who could help describe to him, you know, the real practical
realities of how to support the basic needs of migrants, from food to
shelter and other things.

So, I don’t think that will lead him to a different vector in the policy
conversation with President López Obrador, but it will give him a more
fully formed picture to be able to paint for the Mexican President as
they talk about the next steps on migration.

Q Why didn’t he meet with any migrants when he was down there? It was
note- — noteworthy, at least to the press pool, that he met with,
obviously, law enforcement, met with folks that — you know, advocates,
but no migrants.

MR. SULLIVAN: I think from his perspective, where he really wanted to
focus was on those groups that we are supporting who are providing
essential services to migrants. And that’s a combination of local and
national groups. It’s a combination of NGOs and faith-based leaders,
including the bishop. It’s a combination of government and
non-government.

And so, for him, having the opportunity really to get that granular
understanding was the most important thing. And, you know, this
President’s commitment to supporting the basic dignity of migrants to
have a humane migration policy that treats each and every one of them as
a human being, I think, has been well-proven over the course of the past
two years.

What he has really looked for on this trip to the border was deeper
insight on the real practicalities of how U.S. program dollars and the
elements of the U.S. migration policy are going to provide the necessary
services. That’s where he wanted to focus his attention. That’s what he
was able to do. And I think he feels that it was a very productive set
of engagements at the border that, again, as I said before, helped him
form a more vivid picture of what it is that we have done and what we
need to do on an ongoing basis.

Q Do you expect the situation in Haiti to be discussed? And can you give
us the latest on that? There have been talks, particularly with the
Canadians and the Americans, about what can be done to build some sort
of multilateral force. Have you ruled out U.S. troops being involved in
that? Can you give us the latest on that front?

MR. SULLIVAN: The question of supporting basic stability in Haiti,
ensuring that the provision of essential goods — fuel, food, medicine —
to the people of Haiti, this will certainly be a topic of conversation,
both in the trilateral and in the bilateral with Prime Minister Trudeau.
And the two leaders will talk about some of these proposals, which had
been floated at the U.N., which have been floated in informal circles as
well, about how we could provide some sort of multinational security
support to the Haitian National Police.

The United States believes that finding a country to help lead that
effort is important. So, I’ll leave it at that for now. I want to give
the President and the Prime Minister the opportunity to talk it through.
But this is going to be a significant priority for us in that bilateral
meeting.

Q Is the U.S. interested in Canada being that country?

MR. SULLIVAN: Well, Canada itself has expressed interest in taking on a
leadership role. What exactly the terms and parameters of security
support looks like, what it means in terms of boots on the ground, as
opposed to other forms of support to the Haitian National Police —
including support we and the Canadians have already provided through
equipment, vehicles, et cetera, intelligence — that, the two presid- —
the two leaders will discuss. And I will let them discuss it before
trying to lay out further for you what it is that — you know, that the
U.S. is looking at from the point of view of what’s needed on the ground
there.

I just — what I don’t want to do is jam anybody. So, I want them to be
able to have the conversation.

Q We reported a couple months ago, as others had, that the notion of
U.S. soldiers, as opposed to maybe trainers or police or whatever, was
unlikely. Do you think that’s fair still?

MR. SULLIVAN: The U.S. has had multiple experiences with military
operations in Haiti. And a solution that does not involve a major U.S.
military operation in Haiti is a — certainly the place that we are
looking to try to produce an outcome that is sustainable, durable,
delivers basic security for the people of Haiti but does not go down
that road.

Q Can I ask about Ukraine? I wondered if there were concerns about
potential GOP budget cuts on defense.

And then I also wanted to ask about this op-ed that Condoleezza Rice and
Bob Gates wrote in the Washington Post the other day, suggesting that,
you know, we’re running out of time, or, I guess, Ukraine is running out
of time, and the time for the U.S. to send in more substantial aid is
upon us. I kind of wondered your thoughts on that take.

MR. SULLIVAN: Just the timing on the Rice-Gates piece, which I thought
was a very interesting piece, was propitious in a way, because it came,
I think, within 24 hours of the United States announcing the single
largest, most expansive, most impactful transfer of weapons since the
beginning of the conflict — more than $3 billion to include Bradley
Fighting Vehicles and a number of other capabilities.

So, if the question is, should we be moving fast and decisively to
support Ukraine with the tools it needs to win this war, and Secretary
Rice and Secretary Gates answered that question “yes,” well, we also
answer that question “yes.” And I think we have now shown that we’ve
walked the walk as well as talked the talk.

I did find it interesting that in the course of all of that, they also
noted that they didn’t think M1A1 tanks made sense. So, the one weapon
system they actually identify in the piece is the one they say, “Well,
maybe not that one.” (Laughter.)

On the issue of potential defense budget cuts, we’ve requested $37
billion because we thought — in the omnibus last year — because we
thought that’s what would be necessary to get us through the fiscal
year. Congress actually plussed that up to $45 billion. That is money
that has been appropriated. That is money that we are beginning to
obligate. And I do not see that money getting taken away from us. And,
therefore, our ability to have the resources to support Ukraine with
both the security assistance it needs, as well as the economic,
humanitarian, and energy assistance it needs, is confirmed. It is there.
It is rock solid through nearly all or all of 2023, based on that
plus-up that Congress gave us.

Q How do you think the U.S., in general — Americans — are feeling about
the, you know, U.S. support for Ukraine? Are Americans still behind it,
or have you noticed it sort of changing tide? Are people getting sick of
it? From where you sit, do you feel as though, you know, the country is
behind the notion to support Ukraine still?

MR. SULLIVAN: I do think so. And I think to focus on what I believe is
actually a distinct minority of a single party to conjure this narrative
that somehow there are deep divisions or a genuine threat to enduring
American support for Ukraine is misplaced. Because I think the vast
majority of Democrats and Republicans who are elected officials and the
vast majority of the American people continue to strongly support the
policy of providing Ukraine the means to defend itself against Russian
aggression. And I think that cuts across all parts of our country,
people from all walks of life, because people understand what’s at stake
here.

And I have not seen a significant shift in that opinion on the part of
the American people. And I think that kind of goes to their basic
insight and wisdom about the risks, costs, and consequences of the U.S.
walking away from its commitments to Ukraine and walking away from
standing up strongly to Russia.

Q Can I ask about Iran?

Q Mexico has blocked —

Q Oh, sorry. On Iran, just a few really quick ones. First of all, the
new leader of Israel says he wants to end the JCPOA. I just wanted to
get a check-in on the status of the JCPOA. Is it dead in the water?

And then, just the U.S. reaction to the plans to execute 13 Iranian
protesters. I know I’m all over the map on Iran today.

And then, just thirdly, can you just delve a little bit more into what
the U.S. is doing to stop Iran from getting drones to Russia?

MR. SULLIVAN: Prime Minister Netanyahu said he doesn’t support the
JCPOA?

Q He says it’s a bad agreement and he’s doing what he can to end it.

MR. SULLIVAN: I think that has been his pretty consistent position for
many years now. In fact, he came to the well of the U.S. Congress to
enunciate that position quite famously. And so, I don’t think there’s
any surprise in the fact that he doesn’t like and has never liked the
JCPOA.

We’ve made clear that our priority right now is not the JCPOA, that this
is not the moment or the context to place priority on that.

We have also made clear that we continue to stand behind the commitment
that we have made over successive administrations to ensure that Iran
never obtains a nuclear weapon. And we continue to believe that,
ultimately, diplomacy is the best way to do that in the right context,
backed effectively by international unity and the necessary pressure to
sharpen Iran’s choices, including sanctions pressure that we have
increased over the course of the past year.

So, we’ll have the opportunity to engage deeply with the new Israeli
government on the threat posed by Iran. And I think we share the same
fundamental objectives. And we will work through any differences we have
on tactics the same way that we have over the course of the past two
years.

We had Prime Minister Netanyahu for the early months, then we had Prime
Minister Bennett, and then we had Prime Minister Lapid. One thing all
three of those men had in common: None of them liked the JCPOA. All
three of them felt very strongly about the need for us to coordinate
closely on Iran policy. And Prime Minister Netanyahu, in his latest
iteration, I think, will be no exception to that.

So, we really do look forward to engaging the Israeli government. I’ll
be going to Israel, and that will be a substantial topic of conversation
when I go.

On —

Q Protesters.

MR. SULLIVAN: On the protesters, I mean, this is just the next example
of the brutality of a government in Iran that is crushing its own
people’s dignity, their freedom to speak out, and, in this case, their
lives. Robbing the lives of people for peaceful protest is abhorrent.

And we have condemned the brutal repression of the Iranian government
against its own people. And we have spoken out strongly in support of
those people and their desire to express their own rights and dignity.
And we’ll continue to do so. And we’ll continue to impose costs and
consequences for that, alongside allies and partners. And we’ll continue
to try to help the Iranian people have the means to be able to
communicate effectively both with each other and with the world.

And then, on the question of Iran selling drones to Russia, I think
you’ve seen, particularly in Europe, a substantial shift since this was
exposed, in terms of the pressure that Europe is placing on Iran for the
steps it’s taking to support Russia’s brutal aggression against Ukraine.

And we ourselves have imposed a number of different sanctions against
entities in both Russia and Iran to try to make these transactions more
difficult.

The way that they are actually carrying them out physically makes
physical interdiction a challenge. But we will not stop at a variety of
means of seeking to disrupt this type of ongoing military cooperation
and to continue to increase the cost to Iran — in the court of public
opinion, with respect to economic pressure — for deciding to go down a
road where their weapons are being used to kill civilians in Ukraine and
to try to plunge cities into cold and darkness, which, from our point of
view, puts Iran in a place where it could potentially be committing —
contributing to widespread war crimes.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: This is the last question.

Q So, just to quickly clarify: What is it about how they’re using them
that makes it difficult — difficult to physically interdict?

MR. SULLIVAN: No, no, I mean the transfer of them —

Q Oh, I understand.

MR. SULLIVAN: — not the — not the drones themselves. The movement of
them from Iran to Russia. Does that make sense? Not the use of them on
the battlefield.

Q I understand.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Jarrett, you can have the last one.

Q Great. Mexico has resisted some efforts to get beefed-up U.S.
intelligence on drug trafficking of fentanyl. What is the state of play
of those discussions to get more — should we expect some movement on
that tomorrow?

MR. SULLIVAN: Our hope and expectation is that President Biden will be
able to emerge from the meetings over the next couple of days and be
able to tell you that he does believe he has commitments for stronger
cooperation on the fentanyl issue.

Now, we have a number of very specific practical requests, but, you
know, we’ll make those requests not in front of the cameras and
microphones but, you know, directly to our Mexican counterparts,
including at the leader-to-leader level.

But I think President Biden has some confidence, based on the
preparation for this summit, that he will walk away feeling like he has
a commitment to enhanced cooperation in areas that can help us address
this issue.

Q Just very quickly, just because he hadn’t read yesterday the letter
from Governor Abbott. Has he read it? Is there any response to Governor
Abbott that you care to share?

MR. SULLIVAN: I’ll leave that one to Karine because I haven’t talked to
the President about the letter from Governor Abbott, so I’ve got nothing
to share.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: All right. Thanks, everybody. Thanks, Jake.

10:40 A.M. CST
